

DE-W-AuIR’S WHISKT
a a o i* *i . A A * * *
THE SUPERB
STIMULANT.
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ "and Sawmill j fl[^”f nT .^' e<iiniSite3
EXPLOSIVES?. BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLAN PS -
ttqbaflt.
fjadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
gBELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
j. C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Beat St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HAVE IN STOCK AND TO ARRIVE- _ _ _
Ruston. Proctor & Co.’s s?eZm b 1; e oil ENGINES,
CENTRIFUGAL and
DIRECT ACTING . .
PUMPS, BOILERS.
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
Vnr- Til,lst,rated Lists and Particulars apply to Sole Agents
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machines.
Gibson, Battle & Co., 7 Bent
X'
Take it back.
I must have
fiui?
Pine Apple Brand
I must have -
TO N S
ĥ
CHUBB’S
STRONG ROOM
ħ
Tlaficm r/,
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch I
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jp. a. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age te andOanvasaers Wanted.
-eu
U
ASK YOUR
M C INTYRE BROS
NO
TEA
LIKE
OURS!
m
&
BENSDORPS
AL
CH
h
is the Queen of all Ohms
fQ K
Arom^Strengtfu'PuritjC
ASK
FOR
0^
STANDARD PALE ALE
— in urn-XX* BOTTX. E^G
I UXT BOTTLE'I®
ĥ
6*
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers—
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
■
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-Making Machinery.
r ■*» —>r —<r
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
C3t.OXaX.IKr Ac CO., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 27.—N0. 1379.]
[Thursday, July 19,1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CHEAP BOOKS.
AII at Sixpence Each, or Eightpence Posted ; 16 Post Free
for. Ten Shillings, or 33 for One Pound.
Boldrewood, Robbery Under Arms Boothby, Lust of Hate, Dr. Nikola. Bullen, With Christ at Sea. Caine
BCndman, Manxman. Uholmondeley, Bed Pottage ; Eliot, Scenes of Clerical Life • Fowler Sirius • Gallon’
Dead Ingleby ; Griffiths, Woman Against the World ; Grier, Warden of the Marches ; Gunter Conscience of
a King : Haggard, Montezuma’s Daughter ; Hawthorne, House Seven Gabies ; Hornung Tinv Luttrell • Mason
Clementina ; Mathers, Becky. Merriman, With Edged Tools, The Grey Lady, Velvet Glove Vultures In Kedar’s
Tents. Oppenheim, As a Man Lives Survivor, World’s Great Snare.' Orczy, Emperor’s’ Candlesticks ; Otto-
lenghi, Modern Wizard. Ouioa, Puck, Tricotnn, Moths. Oxenham, John of Gerisau Kaine Torn Sails On
the Wings of the Wind, Garthowen, Hearts of Wales. Rita, Countess Pharamond ; Sergeant, Barbara’s Money •
Tolstoi, Resurrection . Tracy, Darkest Hour. IG§ f A large list of sixpenny editions mailed free on inquiry.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
scat
m
m
the Great
Antiseptic Remedy
'iee
for Influenza , Bronchitis, Asthma,&&ll affections of
the Fbro&f & iungs,a, for prevention of Consumption
Sold in Tins, 1/0, or Post Free on receipt of scamps from the Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist,lpswich,
Queensland. SYDNEY DEPOT —5 and 7 Queen’s Place. Agencies in all the Australian States & New Zealand.
LONDON AGENT—W. F. Pasmore, Chemist, 320 Regent Street W
THE RED PAGE.
BALLADES
WAS required a ballade in strict form with
this envoy:
Arabella ! Mary Jane !
Cursed is the mouth that swerves
Heed the ominous refrain,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves :
Items not ballades are received from :
Prank H. ; W.H. ; G.E.H. ; Tas. ; P.B. ; J.S.—
Arabella ! Mary Jane 1
All ladies do this for their nerves—
M.C.C.—
(Never heard of Toorak “nerves" before.—Yttik also
offers hors d'ceuvres, which is bold but uncomely) • M.M. •
Italic (really in earnest) —
Ballades not in strict form received from :
N.M.li. (xerves—deserves) ; Iverani—
Though you walk in prints or inervs.,
A ll you girls at heart are vain—
(where mervs. = mervrilleux—) ngeniously brought too far);
L.C. (serves—preserves—conserves) ; A.R.D. (threerhymes
on serves); Philos, (ditto); Platman (serves — serves);
Taiwa (serves — observes—deserves) ; C.C. (subserves—pre-
serves ; knight— night) ; N.M.B. (ditto).
There is good stuff in Platman, and Taiwa ; and
if C.C.’s rhymes had been right
One ballade (and not a bad’un) in strict form as
under received from G. Innes, Richmond, Vic.—
to whom 10,s. (kl. has been sent:
Remarks :
Too like the interesting rattlesnake. Wants a few
sonorous polysyllables.
A rule of good Eng. verse is to let stress and quantity
go together : in other words, to drop your metrical
accent on your long vowel, and only for cause and ex-
ceptionally to slur a weighty syllable. In (e.g.)
Turn love’s triremes to the main
Turn Lowe’s might pass as broken metre ; but one breach
in one line is enough or too much. The fine word tri-
remes, following, is spoilt utterly—hurried past recogni-
tion ; and one trireme is plenty for “ lovers twain,” who
(in the office experience) prefer to sit close.
,JL urn .follows turves too closely ; and lovers who row on
the main in triremes should meet a watery death— i.e.,
there is a lack of metaphorical harmony, and the more
when the multiplicity of Love’s attributes is noted.
The ballade is a little too serious for the envoy.
To avoid the factory atmosphere, a ballade should have
continuity (as of narrative), consistency (ideas to theme,
as rays to sun), and a consecutive development of idea to
the clinching envoy, &c., &c.
Still, it’s a pretty fair result.
jt
And— p.s. —by the last post comes this, which
does not alter judgment, but is printed as tribute
to ingenious industry (Merv’s !) The author sug-
gests that ‘ ‘ conserves and deserves can be con-
sidered ” ; but No !
“ Ouida,” as Richard Burton’a. intimate friend,
tells The Fortnightly that Wright’s life fails
lamentably to do him justice; and she gives her
own thought of the man “so unique, so singular,
so many-sided, so extremely startling to all
commonplace people.”
“Did you really shoot, that Arab boyl asked him
once ; for the killing of the Arab boy was always beiii"-
cast up against him. ' °
“Oh, yes,” he answered. “Why not? Do you sup-
pose one can live :n those countries as one lives in Pall
Mall and Piccadilly ?”
And he laughed ; with contemptuous remembrance
probably, of the tolerance of his nation for the Deadly
Trades which make plutocrats of those who kill men and
women by the thousand before their thirtieth year in
their factories and furnaces.
Reside him most other men looked poor crea-
tures,” says Ouida.
In the eyes of women he had the unpardonable fault:
he loved his wife. He would have been a happier and a
greater man if he had had no wife j but his love for her
was extreme ; it was a source of weakness, as most warm
emotions are in the lives of strong men. Their marriage
was romantic and clandestine ; a love-marriage in the
most absolute sense of the words, not wise on either side
but on each impassioned. She adored him, and, like
most women who adore, she was not always wise. She
was of great courage and intelligence, and shone in society
even as she suffered solitude and met danger with forti-
tude. She was as happy in the great world of London as
in the ruined cities of Asia, and could adapt herself to
the most varying circumstance with equal spirit and pa-
tience ; she was exceedingly tender and humane to
animals, and of unswerving fortitude and resolution in
all kinds of peril. What made the one weakness in her
character was the religious superstition which is the rift
in the lute of so many a female soul. Like all her family
she was a devoted Catholic; this bigotry increased with
years, and after Burton’s death became so great that it
made hei actually burn the MS. of one of his most pre-
cious translations, because she deemed it of immoral
tendency. This. I confess, I could never pardon her •
and I never spoke or wrote to her after the irreparable’
act.
‘He could have lived on a shilling a day and a
few good cigars. -That might he Burton's epi-
taph ; for if it does not tell everything it tells
more.
Hail the curving lips that kiss !
Bounding pulse and quiv’ring nerves
Leap from darkness drear to bliss :
Ltps unkissed will lose their curves !
Oscvlations now galore
While the good excuse still serves.
Girls will kiss more f reely, for
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
Girls seem never to groiv old,
But the cynic man observes,
Though their tresses still are gold,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves t
Learn that she u'ho is a prude,
Though her form its charm presenes,
Shows her age for critics rude,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
Hasten then, ye damsels fair,
Ere the fate that Time reserves
Overtake you unaware,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves l
Who will be the happy one
To get more than he deserves }
Since the edict forth has gone —
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
J.G.—
Moonbeams flood ivith silver light
A ll your absent pa’s preset ves;
pome away, my heart’s delight —
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
Dear, your dad is on the sea,
There his vessel scuds and swerves ;
Come, my darling, come with me,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
Dearest sweetheart, as we ivalk,
Mind your sleeping mother’s nerves,
There are other joys than talk—
• Lips unkissed will lose their curves —
Nulla; Yttik—
Chloris ! raise your dainty face,
Sweeter than the best conserves :
Hid in frothy foam of lace,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves l
Kathleen l nestle in my arms,
Warm as are the glowing turves.
Rest there safe through storms and caverns
Lips unkissed will lose their curves ! '
Shy girleens and damsels coy,
Carlton “ tarts ” and Toorak “ nerves,”
Rack must look out for a boy,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
Sweetheart ! though I bow the knee,
Treat me not as one who serves,
Listen to my prophecy—
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
All my heart belongs to thee,
Lut mg duty never swerves.
Pardon niy persistency :
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
Though my pain is ecstasy,
When 1 gaze on those preserves,
Heed my importunacy.
Lips urikissed will lose their curves.
1 have loved with constancy :
Give me what my love deserves.
Hearken to my heartfelt /A. a :
Lips uxkisskd will lose their curves.
Dian, pacing down the night—
Ah ! tliat love should ever wane—
Kissed a youth on Latmos’ height,
Thrilled him with exquisite pain.
Laughing in supreme disdain,
“ Loyal love no lord subserves :
Not tor passion pride is slain—
Lips unkissed will lose their curves."
Gay Lot.hair or anchorite,
Know ye that since Lilith’s reign
Vestal pure or sybarite
( >f her shapely mouth is vain :
Haste ye, therefore, thence to drain
Nectar that a god innerves!
Nevermore must maid complain
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
Oh, a shame it were if knight,
Buckling mail for Love’s campaign,
Should through lack of kisses light
Let a pretty mouth grow plain.
Up, ye osculating swain,-'-
Poach at will on Love’s preserves :
License in this knowledge gain—
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
BALLADE OF LIPS UNKISSED.
'W # EARTS too soon make hermitage,
*• 1 m Sweethearts , revel in your reign !
M JL Yours is yet the Golden Age,
And, though love at last you feign,
Of your first love yon, may gain
One good dream that Time preserves:
Build your best while still in Spain—
Lij>s unkissed will lose their curves !
Think you Love, the master-mage
Sings for naught his mystic strain 1
Even so, why grudge his ictge
If you triumph in liis train l
Lovers loyal, lovers twain.
Ere tiov sleep 'heath- graveyard turves,
Turn lore's triremes to the main —
Lips unkissed trill lose their curves !
Eros’ song strikes dumb the sage.
Peals beseeching through his brain:
Ah, the tears that blur the page
Where his joyous youth was slain l
Be not yours such futile pain
As the anchorite unnerves;
You have youth in every vein —
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
Envoy.
Arabella 1 Mary Jane !
Cursed be the mouth that swerves:
Heed the ominous refrain,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
G.I.
DOUBLE BALLADE OF LIPS UNKISSED.
Never shall I see her yield,
Though I plead and plead again ?
Nor to me shall be unsealed
Lips for which my heart is fain ?
(Lips where Cupid’s own have lain
Packed with honey-sweet conserves)
Listen ; warped by cold disdain,
Lips uukissed will lose their curves.
Threats the lover dare not wield ;
Never so did he attain
High desires ; a harder shield
Intervenes, a long campaign
VVhere love’s self may chance be slain :
Neither daunts her nor unnerves
This ;—With youth upon the wane,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
Should I lie on Love’s hard field
Wounded, vanquished, pale with pain,
Pity melting heart congealed
YVould not love at last remain ?
Simulate defeat, and gain
(Like Adonis on flowered turves)
Love assured through this I reign,—
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
Here is art in art revealed,
Subtle pact of heart and brain :
Cold by warmth is unannealed,
Art unravels art’s wove skein :
Maidens troop in Cupid’s train,
For though cold, a lover’s verve’s
Apt to pare the close-pressed twain !
(Lips unkissed will lose their curves 1)
Listen all, in bower or bield ;
Ere cold time your pulses drain,
Has sweet love in vain appealed '!—
Turn, ere coldness be your bane ;
(Thus adjures a proper Dane) ;
Who refuses, she deserves
What is worse than bond or chain—
Lips unkissed will lose their curves.
A riadne saw the keeled,
Boat of Theseus cleave the main ;
Launcelot, armoured, iron-heeled,
Heeded not the sweet Elaine ;
Thkrk's the moral, plump and plain /
Maidens : (Sydney’s, Greenland’s, Merv’s)
Take from me as if from Quain,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
L’Envoy.
Arabella ! Mary Jane !
Ourskl be the mouth that swerves :
Heed the ominous refrain,
Lips unkissed will lose their curves !
J.U.A.
“THE SAVAGN TURNING..."
“ NE theory of the development of ideas
■ I suggests that, in inheriting the ances-
tral thought-machine, we inherit also
a number of latent ancestral thoughts.
That is, the hereditary brain-cells, though
they be composed of entirely fresh nerve-
plasma, are yet arranged after an ancestral
plan beyond our control, and can spon-
taneously generate thoughts in which individual
experience has no part. The theory is but an
extension to conscious thought of a power well-
known to reside in hereditary nerve-cells when
automatic impulse is concerned. Conscious indi-
vidual brain-acquirement, for example, can have
no share in the nerve-control of the fcetal heart.
N. S. a haler, Harvard professor of geology, who
writes of this and kindred subjects in Ins book
about The Individual, relates his endeavours to
capture the spontaneous thoughts that seem just
to rise to the level of consciousness —to be always
flitting over the edge of the conscious horizon ;
and finds that one s capacity to think in a way
apparently independent of his own experience
can be strengthened and increased by deliberate
effort.”
In June Nineteenth Century the Rev. Forbes
Phillips has a curious article in support of this
theory, and he gives experience in point.
Some ten years ago I paid my first visit to Rome. Again
and again within the city there came these flashes of re-
cognition. The Baths of Oaracalla, the Appian Way, the
Catacombs of St. Calixtus, the Colp/semn—all .seemed
familiar to me. The reason appeared obvious. I was re-
newing my acquaintance with what 1 had seen in pictures
and photographs. That might explain the buildings, but
not the dark underground windings of the Catacombs. A
few days later I was out at Tivoli. Here, again, suddenly
the whole place and country-side were as familiar to me
as my own parish. I found myself struggling with a
torrent of words, describing what it was like in the olden
days. Up to that time I had read nothing of Tivoli. I
had seen no views ; only a few days previous to my visit
had I heard of its existence, and here I was acting as
guide and historian to a party of friends, who concluded
that I had made a special study of the place and neigh-
bourhood ; then the vision in my mind began to fade. I
stopped like a man who for the time has forgotten his
part, and I could say no more. It was as if a mosaic had
dropped to pieces, leaving only a few remaining fragments
still in situ, and presently these receded from my grasp.
d*
On another occasion I was with a companion in the
neighborhood of Leatherhead, where I had never been
before. The country was quite new to me and to my
friend. In the course of conversation he remarked:
“They say there is part of an old Roman road some-
where round here, but I don’t know whether it is on this
side of Leatherhead or the other.” At once I said “ I
know,” and led the way with certainty in my mind that I
knew where we should find it, which we did; and
there was the feeling that I had been on that road
before, riding, and that I had worn armour. Such inci-
dents have caused me from time to time to pursue this
subject among my friends, and quite a number of them
can quote similar experiences. To the west, 3J miles
from where I live, is a Roman fortress in an almost
perfect state of preservation. A clergyman called upon
me one day and asked me to accompany him there for an
examination of the ruins. He told me he had a distinct
recollection of living there, and that he held some office
of a priestly nature in the days of the Roman occupation.
One fact struck me as significant. He' insisted on
examining a ruined tower which had bodily overturned.
“ There used to be a socket in the top of it,” he went on,
“ in which we used to plant a mast, and archers used to
be hauled to the top in a basket protected with leather
from which they picked off the leaders among the ancient
Gorlestonians.” We found the socket lie had indicated.
I urged him to publish many tilings he told me that day,
but he shook his head. “The time is not ripe,” he
replied.
And Phillips continues—
Whether we believe in apparitions or not, this world is
a haunted one. Our thought-world is full of deep under-
tones that roll in upon us from the past. As we lay our
ear to the din of the present, we find its accompaniment
to be the in measurable murmur of the ages, as the voice
of many waters. The commonplace expressions, the
ordinary words we use, are blocks of mind-stuff, wrought
into their present state by the ponderous inaee of time,
and cast and recast in many brains.
And the mind of man is a haunted one. Far-away-
generations of ancestors have cut deep the channels of
our memories until what was once a volition is now an
involuntary movement. We say a man has formed cer-
tain habits, but how often they have been formed for
him in the dim past.
“ Have you ever felt, on seeing a place for the
first time, that you have been there before ? This
is a favourite question of mine,” says Phillips,
“ and in quite 30 per cent, of the answers I get
something which bears directly on the theory of a
racial memory.” The subject is interesting, and
possibly some Bulletin readers can add illustra-
tions.
4.
“Punctuality”, writes Mrs. John Lane, “isan
unamiable virtue and very plebeian in everyone
but a king. It is always the punctual who lose
their tempers waiting for the unpunctual, and to
lose your temper is the thin end of the wedge for
the perpetration of the worst crimes. I suppose
the angels are always unpunctual, or they wouldn’t
be so sweet tempered. I don’t believe the punctual
are ever destined to be angels, for already on
earth they get so soured. So one cannot help
thinking that Heaven must be a rather unpunc-
tual place.”
d*
An article on ballades was printed here some
years ago, and apparently should have been
printed again. A ballade, in English, is not a
ballad. It is definitely a set of three eight-lined
stanzas and one four-lined, in any metre, with
the rhymes (1) a, b, a, b, b, c, b, c ; (2) a , b, a, b, b,
c, b, e; (3) a, b, a. b, b, c, b, c; (4) b, v, b, c.
The last line in every stanza is the same. No
syllable once used as a rhyme can be used again
(a fresh prefix or fresh spelling makes no differ-
ence). And it is a point of honour to play the
game, though in light or lazy verse players tire
often. To add, there are the ballade of ten-line
stanzas, the double ballade (as J.C.A.’s) and the
ballade wich double refrain ; but the common
form will serve endeavourers awhile. When
another refrain comes, we’ll try anew.
MEMORANDA
An interesting Melbourne enthusiast is Jameg
Caithness, vellum-binder and marbler with the
George .Robertson Proprietary. Book-marbling
or paper-marbling is a handicraft, but fully con-
sidered it is chemistry, and properly seen it is
an art.
What do you marble ? Book, edges and
book end-papers. (End-papers are the first two
and last two leaves that figure in or disfigure any
book, one of each pair being pasted or glued down
upon the cover.) How do you marble ? Thus:
You take a trough of appropriate size and fill it
with gum-tragacanth, a little below the consis-
tency of treacle. This is the matrix of the im-
pressions which you desire to make upon paper;
theft, from pots of colour—red, green, yellow, and
blue, or other—you take their respective brushes,
which, being flirted and fluttered above the
trough, leave the colour in streaks, or spots, or
spatters. Here is room for the artist, who combs
the superficial layer of colour into a paradise of
dainty devices that fall practically into notorious
patterns—Spanish, or Dutch, or shell, or antique,
and so on. Then a sheet of paper is laid upon tha
pattern, is lifted, and behold an end-paper: which,
when dry, may or may not be burnished.
The chemist is concerned with composition of the
paints. These are made from solid or moist colour,
but there is need of combination with gum, or with
turpentine, or with other ingredients, that the
result may be stable on a shifting surface, and
stable in the end. Here the economical man who
can use a red at 3s. Gd. a lb., and get a colour
equal to the pigments at 255. a lb., is the man
who shines. Caithness, whose firm binds for
Adelaide and Melbourne public libraries, is pure
fanatic in his profession. He talks marbling, he
dreams marbling, his marbling has won highest
praise from American experts. He is the one
man in the Australian Commonwealth to whom a
beautifully marbled end-paper is the most beauti-
ful thing in the world. Hence this meed of
curious praise.
*
Time and again Theodosia Garrison convinces
one that in her bosom throbs the pulse of poetry—
a pulse not too tutored, with ever and anon an in-
surrectionary surge. Her verses have the vitality
that one meets not often in American magazines,
yet less often in English (as becomes): and their
emotion is so genuine that just a touch of Landor’s
form or Poe’s would make them classic. In a
recent piece she tells of many children “sprung
of my heart and my brain ” —Content, and Etfse,
and Comfort, and Success, and Power; but one
child has fled:
Well do my children guard me, jealous of this their right'.
Carefully, soberly, ever by daylight and candlelight ,
But oh, for my Prodigal Joy of Youth
Somewhere out in the night!
J*
In New Guinea, according to A. E. Pratt, they
grow their own tobacco. It is very coarse and
rank.
“In fact, the natives themselves cannot inhale
much, as it makes them giddy ; and they are not
infrequently seized with severe fits of coughing
when the fumes have proved particularly
suffocating.
“The method of smoking is elaborate. They roll
a leaf into a little horn, and insert it in the
smaller hide on the side of the ‘ Bau-bau,’ within
this leaf is placed the charge of tobacco which
they light, and then placing their lips to the end
hole they draw. The little horn, or cigarette as
one may call it, is now removed from the holein
the side, and if the pipe is new they blow
away the first charge of smoke, by placing their
lips to the hole in which the cigarette was origi-
nally inserted.
“ Again the cigarette is placed in the small hole,
and the pipe is drawn from the end hole. This
time the smoke is intended to be used, so the
cigarette is removed from the small hole, and the
smoker applying his lips thereto inhales the whole
charge. Again the cigarette is removed, and the
pipe is filled by a long pull at the end hole, but
this time the smoker does not inhale the charge
himself, but removes the cigarette and politely
hands the charged pipe to his neighbour, who
punctiliously rubs the mouthpiece, and enjoys the
long whiff.
“Very often there is one drawer for an entire
party, whose duty it is to fill the pipe with smoke,
and pass it so filled to each of his companions in
turn. , .
“ The supply of tobacco is carried irr the armlet
or behind the ear—this last method being not
unknown to the festive Cockney, who, on Bank
Holiday, is seldom complete without a cigarette
so worn.”
J*
Tracks in the Snow, by G. R. Benson, is a
realistic story of a murder and the pursuit of the
criminal —not half bad, and about GO per cent,
good. The realism is gained in the approved way
of multiplying details, and the book follows life
SO" photographically that it seems “as true as
death.” Some of the detailsare tedious, but some
of the details of life and death are tedious. We
think legal minds should follow the t me/.* with
attention.
A.G.S.
THE BRIDE.
O, little face, so fair to kiss,
As clean and sweet as Heaven's dew ;
O, lips that only babble love ;
O, hoping eyes, I hope for you.
O, little hands, so white, sofair
To war in weary ways of toil:
O, little feet, so free, so wild
To run upon the thorny soil.
O, heart, with many loves to hold,
O, harper of the trembling strings,—
I doubt not, God may show you yet
The radiance of eternal things.
S.N.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Limited, Wool and Produce
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to : —
Salesmen, SYDNEY.
MICK SIMMONS.
FOOTBALLS.
RUGBY OJR ASSOCIATION.
j^jj\ov.so/y
v rOVAL
?o o r*t
m
m
iM’SU/L l/
mi
;src
t^l7 v
All Bails Fitted with best quality imported Red Rubber Bladders.
Postage on Men’s Football —N.S. W., 6d ; Inter-State, Bd.
No, I—Nicholson’s “Royal” Match 11., Hand-sewn 9s 6d
No. 2—Nicholson's “Royal Special” (Rugby only) 11s 6d
No. 3—Nicholson’s “Royal ” Match 11. 79 6d
No. 3 is an exceptionally strong', useful Ball, not so good as the hand-sewn, but suitable for practice.
‘ Nicholson ” Roval Special Match Ball is guaranteed the best value on the market, made from Selected
Crome Leather, Hand-sewn, in accordance, with the N.S. YV. Rugby Union’s specifications, and fitted with
best quality Imported Red Rubber Bladders.
GILBERT’S Best Match 11., Hand-sewn
BRYAN'S “Grasshopper” Match 11.. Hand-sewn ..
“ A.N.A.” Special Match 11., Rugby only
SYKES’ Match 11., Special Value
“ALBION” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
“RIVAL” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
“DIADEM” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
A Splendid Ball—will always keep its shape.
“LEAGUE” Match 11., Association only, Buttonless
12s 6d
13s 6d
14s 6d
7s 6d
11s 6d
10s Od
13s 6d
BOYS’ SPECIAL VALUE.
15s Od
RUGBY each.
Solid Hide, No. 1 (Postage 4d.) 2s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 2s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage od.) 3s Cd
Solid Hide, No. 4 ("Postage Od.) 4s 3d
Solid Hide, Match 11. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
ASSOCIATION each.
Solid Hide, No. I (Postage 4d.) 2s (id
Solid Hide, No. 2 (Postage 4d.) 3s 3d
Solid Hide, No. 3 (Postage 5d.) 3s 9d
Solid Hide, No. 4 (Postage 6d.) 4s Gd
Solid Hide, Match 111. (Postage 6d.) .. .. 5s Od
BOYS’ RUGBY, Extra. Special Value (Postage 3d).
No. 1, Is 9d each. No. 2,2 s 3d each. . No. 3,2 s 9d each.
Football Bladders (imported)—Red Rubber (Rugby or Association)
No. 1 (Postage 2d.) ..
No. 2 (Postage 2d.) ..
No. 3 (Postage 3d.) ..
Each.
.. Is Od
.. Is 4d
.. Is 7d
Each.
.. Is 10(1
.. 2s 3d, 3s 3d
.. 2s 9d, 3s 3d
No. 4 (Postage 3d.),.
No. 5 (Postage 3d.)..
No. 6 (Postage 3d.)..
We can Supply COLONIAL Bladders at Cheaper Prices if required.
SHIN GUARDS.
Stout Twill, with tapes (Postage 3d.)
Stout Twill, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.)
Basil, leather straps and buckles (Postage 3d.).. .. ••
Brown Basil, extra large, continuous leather straps (Postage 3d.)..
Gold Cape, straps and buckles (Postage 3d.)
Cape Leather, Shin and Ankle Pads, leather straps (Postage 4d.) . . .. ..
Best Quality Gold Cape, extra padded, continuous straps, with or without Ankle
Pads (Postage 4d.) .. .. ..
Same as above, larger size (Postage 4d.) ..
Is Od pair
Is 3d pair
Is 6d pair
2s Od pair
2s 9d pair
3s Od pair
4s Od pair
5s Od pair
FOOTBALL BOOTS.
Postage on pair, N.S.W., Is ; Inter-State, Is Bd.
Best Quality English-made Hide Boot, blocked toe-cap, very light, a
splendid boot for Rugby *-0s 6(1
Extra Quality English-made Buck Skin Boot (white), blocked toe and
ankle pads, guard over instep, very special quality, per pair .. 14s 6d
Best Quality English-made Hide Boots, blocked toe-caps, with and
without ankle pads, per pair 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 1.3 s ba
FOOTBALL SUNDRIES.
UMPIRE’S WHISTLES, 9d, Is, Is 6<i each.
LACING AWLS (Post. 2d), 6d each.
LEATHER BOOT STUDS, 6d packet.
STOUT WEB BELTS, Double Straps and Pocket (Post. 2d),
Is 3d, 2s 6d each.
N.S.W. RUGBY ANNUAL (Post. 2d), 6d.
BOOK ON FOOTBALL (Post. 2d), 6d each.
EAR CAPS, Duck, open top (Post. 2d), 3s each.
EAR CAPS, Chamois, netted top (Post. 2d), 3s 9d.
EAR CAPS, Gold Cape, netted top (Post. 2d), 5s each.
Brass Inflators.
ħ
h
Is, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d each
\SS INFLATORS (Postage—Small, 6d ; Large, 9d)
ĥ
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
20in. Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
stock, open sights, weight about 3Jlb. .. ....
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ;3s 2d Inter-State).
7s
ħ
Mick
Simmons
Marlin Repeating: Rifle.
1892 Model, 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, Rim Fire (magazine takes 25 short,
20 long, or IS long Rifle Cartridges), weight silb.-
1897 Model 24in. octagon barrel, 22 Calibre, take-down action, case-hardened receivers, fitted with
sliding’ rear sights, weight sJlb. (Postage—N.S.W., 2s 3d ; Inter-State, 4s 2d)
£3
£4
Stevens’
« Little Krag.
h
Stevens’ S.S. “ Little Krag:,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blue<! steel round
barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard, peep
sight, with Y sight if required, 6d extra ; length over all S6in.,
weight about BJlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ; 2s 8d Inter-State)..
21s
Illustrated Fishing Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
The Sydney Sports Depot
“MAINE’
RIFLE
The Celebrated
fitted with Sporting' Rear Sights to 800yds., 801 l
Action, 18in. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
Weight, 2}lb.
"THE MAINE:
prfie
&h curing Piflc /iparT
PRICE
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W.,
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
15 6
1/3; INTER-
-SNOIftll/UIS MOIW
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
Remington S.i
N.S.W., is 0(1 ;
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2slb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.F., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2}lb.
Postage: N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d..
3. Rifle, New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F., 20in. barrel, weight 3Mb. Postage—
Interstate, 2s 8d “..
13s 6d
18s Od
16s Od
Winchester
1904
Model.
as
sSm
“Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
Model, for 22• short or long- rim lire cartridges,
21 in. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action,
adjustable rear sight, length of rifle over all ;47£in., bead front
siii'ht with patent alloyed tip, which will not
tarnish, weight about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
24s
ĥ
Stevens' “Favorite.”
Stevens’ S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 2a. or 22 cal., rin
fire, half octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block
under lever action, open front and rear sights, weight (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ;
38 2d Inter-State)
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F., fitted with beach combination, front sight, open
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d
£1 10s
£2
Lest on
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
ħ
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding' locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—b.S.W., 2s 9d ,
Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON. DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage-—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding bar locks, left choke, weight about 71b. .. •• •• ••
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
■Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
40s
50s
SNOIAIIAIIS
MOIIAI
h
THE GLOBE
DB B L Gun, 12 or 16 Gauge, toj> lever, twist barrels, extension rib, rebounding' locks,left choke, patent
d! &E. fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock, weight about 71b. Postage, N.S.W., 2/9 ; Inter-State, 5/2.
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SGHS’
ses*
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s £d
D B B L. Gan, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding- Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2fin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
Mick Simmons
ĥ
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE’’ D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both ’choke, side lock action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deelev-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved,
2fin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and
fines't-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
chambered for
absolutely the
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney


MELANCHOLIC MEN
The Director & Principal of Institutes,
Mr. HOWARD FREEMAN.
THIS IS A SERIOUS MATTER.-All
who have lost will-power, either by con-
tinually committing themselves to habits of
dissipation or by neglecting the opportuni-
ties to amend, become unfitted for any of the
walks of life. Now 20,000 men and women
have overcome their feelings of reserve to
such an extent that they have openly
endorsed the methods of
AND
Weary Women
Will you allow yourselves to
remain in a miserable state
of Nervousness or Debility,
when a Cure is at hand ?
1
m
The Physician=in-Chief of Institute,
DR. RICHARD WALLACE.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
ELECTRO-MEDICAL INSTITUTE.
They restore sufferers to a perfect, healthy state. This is not the confession of merely one person, but o f
TWICE TEN THOUSAND JTEN TALKING TO YOU.
These have been Restored to Health by the world-renowned Specialists, and if they are willing to
sacrifice all reserve to prove to you that this is so, you should take enough heed of the matter to
make careful investigation.
The Freeman and Wallace Electro-EVledical Treatmant
brings back VIM, VIGOR, and ENERGY to men and women who have wasted their strength and
energies. Those who have wrecked their health MUST certainly suffer. Remember that, and be warned
in time. . ' .
DR. WALLACE, M.D., L.R.C.P., E., L.M., has Nine Diplomas and Certificates of Qualification and
Registration open for inspection at the Consulting Rooms. His medical staff comprises FOUR DULY-
REGISTERED, FULLY-QUALIFIED PHYSICIANS, as well as Experts in the special ailments of
MEN. Registered chemists dispense his prescriptions.
You have suffered long and seriously. Why not let us assist you in the realisation of rapid relief and
complete cure? THIS WE CAN DO WITHOUT DOUBT if you will confide in us. Read the following
description or Keynote Symptoms, and if you have any of them you may rest assured you require the
remarkable treatment that has won name and fame for .the Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical
Institutes of Health and Healing.
FAILING VIGOR.
When this begins to go, you
will twitch and show signs ot
premature weakness. Fol-
lowing are some of the symp-
toms :
Your facial nerves twitch,
You are all run down,
Spots before your eyes,
The muscles twitch,
Pains in small of back,
Pains in head,
Shooting pains,
You feel fatigued,
You are weary,
Your head swims,
Your knees knock,
Your hand trembles.
NERVOUS TWITCH-
ING.
A nervous person easily gets all
of a tremble, gets fits of weak-
ness, fits of twitching.
Here are some symptoms :
Your eyes twitch,
Your hands tremble,
You feel shaky,
You walk haltingly,
You are melancholy,
Ringing in the ears,
Blood is poor,
Your eyes weak,
Your eyes bleary,
Your head swims.
DEBILITY
This affliction destroys ambition,
organic strength, energy, and
hope. Following are symp-
toms :
You feel weak,
You feel cold,
Your back aches,
You lose flesh,
You sleep poorly,
Are low-spirited,
Your eyes sunken,
You have hot flushes,
Your memory impaired,
No real vigor,
You have sick headaches,
Nausea after eating,
Hands or feet moist,
Brightness leaves the eye.
DO NOT DELAY. —Delays are at all times dangerous. You would not throw away a grain of
gold ; neither would you discard a pearl of great price ; yet health is more to you than any of these.
What is the value of a million of money, doubled fourfold, to a millionaire, if his arteries are aneurised, or
his brain softenened beyond all hope of cure? The moral of these facts lies in the proverbial truth—Do
not delay. PROCRASTINATION IS THE PRECIPICE BELOW WHICH YAWNS THE AWFUL GULF
OF DEATH. AVOID IT !
LOSE NO CHANCE. —Every man knows it is dangerous to trifle with disease. You might as
well stand at the mouth of a loaded cannon. While you have time, write to the SPECIALISTS at the
INSTITUTE ; state your symptoms, act according to their instructions, and you will soon be your old
self again. Their record is a series of professional triumphs. THEY HAVE THOUSANDS OF TESTI-
MONIALS TO PROVE THEIR UNEQUALLED SKILL.
SURE
We publish here two testimonials out of the
thousands which we possess. They are from gentle-
men whose names are familiar in the commercial and
political spheres of Australia. They are now strong
and able-bodied men, happy in the consciousness of
renewed health and vitality:—
CURES.
MR. PATRICK LARKIN, J.P., of Sydney, after abrief
course of our medical methods, writes regard-
ing our Electro-Medical Treatment: —
“ I am satisfied it gives health and vigor to the
system. For some time my nerves were out of
tone, but now I am perfectly well, and have re-
gained my usual strength.”
THE HON. DANIEL O’CONNOR, M.P., who filled
with honor the Portfolio of Postmaster-General
in the Parkes Ministry (N.S.W.), and who won
distinction, writes :
“I have tried a course of your Electro-Medical
Treatment, and it has benefited me much. For years
I was troubled with severe pains in the back and
kidneys, the legacy of an attack of Lumbago, which
has now, I am happy to say, completely left me.”
FREE MEDICAL BOOK ! ! —During the Summer Season our great medical treatise, “Clinical
Experiences,” may be obtained FREE on application. It contains 600 pages, 150 medical illustrations,
and 31 chapters, replete with valuable information. The best Book for Men with Serious Ailments.
FACTS THAT DEFY ARGUMENT.
We are treating thousands of cases annually, and is it not reasonable to suppose that we under-
stand such cases better than those who are treating only a few hundred? Practice makes perfect in
any line, and it is none the less true in the treatment of disease. You get the benefit of Experience
when you place your case in our hands. Do not despair. Order your treatment at once, and let us
add your name to our long list of cures.
******
If the slightest doubt exists in your mind that our treatment will not cure j'ou, it is a duty you
owe to yourself to write to some of the references we herein publish, and send an addressed envelope
for reply. Ask any of the attendants who have given their testimonies to us if they think we can
benefit you. We court the closest investigation. Our Parcel Post System is a blessing to all sick
men living in centres far from medical men and aid. Thousands of men would now be in their graves
had we not readied and treated them by our Parcel Post System. Remember !we do rot charge for
advice by letter.'
The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-Medical & Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts., Sydney
HOWARD FREEMAN, Director.
DR. WALLACE, L.R.C.P., L.M., Physician-in-Chief.
DR. ELIZABETH WHITE, M.D., Specialiste in Diseases of Women and Children.
AND AT MELBOURNE.
In the Public Interest.
One of the most famous and scientifically replete
medical institutions in the Southern World is The
Freeman & Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical
Institute, which has been established in Sydney
for upwards of 20 years, and is known far and
wide throughout Australia by virtue of its colossal
mail methods and themany remarkable cures which
are effected by the medium of its parcel post
system of medical treatment. Were it not for the
fact that this system is a most effective and rapid
one, it is questionable whether the numerous
patients who are fortunately treated by the Insti-
tute would recover as rapidly as they testify.
Men residing in all parts of Oceana, even as far
as Thursday Island to the north, New Caledonia
to the east, South Africa to the west, and Tasmania
to the south, have at various times consulted
the Specialists attached to the Medical Staff of
the Institute per medium of correspondence. The
system is so effective that a letter posted from
West Australia is received and replied to in a few
days with that promptitude of despatch at all
times associated with an effective medical service.
There are thousands of men in Australia to-day
who are grateful for having used this service, and
who would, had they not done so, no doubt, from
the character of the desperate diseases from which
they suffered, have been in their graves.
The medical statistics of the Institute prove
that, within the last 10 years over 10,000 men have
been permanently cured of diseases which are in-
timately associated with the Male Sex. Testi-
monials are received daily from all parts of Aus-
tralia from men who have not only for years
suffered, but who have, at the hands of incompe-
tent, unskilful, and unscientific practitioners, had
their maladies aggravated instead of cured.
The general practitioner is not, in a sense, a
Specialist; his work is too general and his prac-
tice too confined to allow him to have that
thorough knowledge which is absolutely essential
to the eradication of certain forms of disease,
which demand a special skill, special study, and a
special knowledge. One of the most famous of
Russian pathologists recently, in a book which he
has published, and which lyis startled the medical
world, admits that although it may be the policy
of the practitioner to cure, in many instances he
most emphatically kills his patient: He admits,
in this essential work, his many errors, also the
errors of his scientific brethren, and alludes
pitifully to the faith which the general public
accords to men who, by virtue of the scientific
altitude to which they have risen and the scientific
honor which they have reaped in the fields of ex-
periment, desire to pose before the world as
medical saviours of mankind. Although this
book deals principally with the Russian school
of medicine, still fact generalises the truth of
this pathologist’s writings, and most emphati-
cally can such a system of incompetence be
localised to the medical schools of Australia. From
time to time, through the columns of the Aus-
tralian press, much may be learned as to the
incompetence of the general surgeon and of the
systems governing many localhospitals. Specialism
is in itself a profession, and even the phenomena
of a single disease are sufficient to call forth the
study of a single lifetime. There are certain
classes of disorders which afflict the male popula-
tion which the Specialists of the Institute have
studied completely, and are in a position to speak
emphatically upon the probability and the impro-
bability of cure.
The Specialists have a few private words to say
direct to suffering men. If you are ailing and feel
that you are not what you should be at your age;
if you are run down, ill at ease in your mind,
nervous, irritable, and despondent you should
consult Dr. Richard Wallace, M.D., the Physician-
in-Chief of the Institute, who is Registered by
the Australian, English, and American Medical
Boards. He is a Specialist of high order in the
treatment of Men’s Disorders, and in all Private,
Nervous, Skin and Blood Disorders. He may be
consulted personally, or by letter, in all affections
of the Nervous System, Blood and Skin Disorders,
Bladder Troubles, Rupture, Varicocele, Diseases
of the Prostrate Glands, and in all Chronic
Troubles of Men and Women, such as Asthma,
Rheumatism, Gout, Bronchitis, Piles, Chronic
Indigestion, Catarrh, Lumbago, Sciatica, Liver
and Kidney Complaints, etc.
These lines should be read and memorised by
all Young, Middle-aged, or Old Men. It will be
of infinite value to them if they lack Vital Force,
Energy, Muscular Power, Mental Determination,
or Nerve Strength, or in cases of young men who
have failed to attain perfect manhood. Many
Middle-aged men lack Perfect Strength and Vigor,
whether by reason of care, privation and expo-
sure, over-work, brain-strain, or other causes, and
find their physical powers declining at an age
when Nature intended them to be in the Prime
of their Power and Strength. Amongst old men,
their condition of waning vitality is attributed by
them to the result of old age or senile decay,
whereas it may be simply the result of want of cor-
rect Medical treatment, rendering the body power-
less to reproduce its vitality unaided. To all such
afflicted ones the Specialists’ system is offered as
a means of affording, not temporary alleviation,
but positive removal from many disabilities. Men
of any age whatever should note that the
Specialists may be consulted Free of Charge
where their opinions may be deemed of value in
serious cases demanding expert opinion. Thou-
sands of men have been cured through having
written to them from far and distant parts, where
medical men were few and inexperienced. Spe-
cialists’ modern scientific methods having been
followed by adoption of their systems of home
treatment, the sufferer soon improved, and ulti-
mately regained his health. During the last fifteen
years the Institute’s records prove that countless
men would now have been buried had they not
communicated with the Medical Staff, and placed
themselves under treatment for serious afflictions
admitting of no neglect or tampering. The reader
should study carefully the advertisement on this
page, which is calculated to bring comfort and
nope to the most despondent sufferer.
Read the Following Testimonies of Eminent
Citizens who have been Cured by the
Freeman and Wallace Treatment
INSPECTOR F. FOWLER, Chief Officer commanding:
the police division at Burwood, wrote :—“Since adopting
your treatment my health has improved. The trouble I
suffered from I seldom ever experience. As you are
aware, I feel so much benefited that I have recom-
mended the treatment to many of my friends.”
Mr. PHILIP NEWBURY, Australia’s Favorite Tenor,
says : —“ I have tried a course of your Electro-Medical
treatment, and it has benefited me to a great degree.
For some years I suffered from Uric Acid in the Blood,
causing Rheumatic tendencies, but, thanks to the
wonderful efficacy of your ELECTRO-MEDICAL treat-
ment, I am now completely cured.”
Mr. JOSEPH MEGSON, the well-known Cyclist of
New South Wales, writes:—“l suffered from nervous-
ness for a long time. I was on the point of a constitu-
tional break-up more than once. The merits of your
treatment received by me are beyond question.”
Mr. G. H. BERNARD, of Ganmain Station, via Wagga,
wrote:—“l am getting on steadily and surely. My
nerves are in a much better state now. lam not now
subject to those severe frontal headaches. My brain is
quite capable of tackling any reasonable amount laid
upon it.”
Again he says at a later date :—“ I must say that for
years I have not felt so well as I am now doing. The
half-yearly balance was robbed of all its trials, thanks
to the admirable trim in which you had my nerves and
brain.”
Mr. GEORGE E. KNIGHT, of Simpson-street, Wei
lington, says : —“ Your good work in my case is now com-
plete, and you have done all that is possible to be done,
and I will ever remain yours gratefully.”
Mr. ALFRED RUMING, of Stonehenge, thus describes
his condition : —“ I must certainly say that I cannot now
complain of any pains or aches whatever ; in fact, I con-
sider myself a new being. At one time life was a misery
to me, now it seems Paradise, and I was never better in
my life than now.”
Mr. .T. BOULDEN, of Camberwell, Victoria, who
suffered from rheumatism for years, after a three-months’
course of treatment at the Institute, writes the following
testimony:—“For years I suffered from rheumatism,
which was of synovial and articular character, and tried
to obtain relief in many medical quarters. I failed, and
at last tried the Specialists of your staff, and am now,
through their Electro-Medical methods, entirely cured.
You are at liberty to publish this testimony, also my
portrait, in the interest of the public.”
Mr. 11. CUMMINS, of Hobart (Tasmania), who suffered
from Nervous Prostration, declares:— 11 I wish to convey
to yon my heartfelt gratitude for your skilful assistance
rendered to me in my afflictions. I had been for years a
great sufferer, and at times nearly despondent. I had
been treated by the most able and skilled doctors that
could he found in this colony. I expended large sums of
money with several doctors, and was coolly told that
there was no hope for a cure. One of your pamphlets
fell into my hands which treated upon my case. You so
fully described and explained all my symptoms that I
felt satisfied you understood my complaint thoroughly, so
I determined to pay you a visit. I was thoroughly
examined by you and pronounced curable. I placed my-
self under your care. Within a week of commencing the
remedies you prescribed I felt better. To-day I can con-
scientiously say I am permanently cured. I can cheer-
fully say to all sufferers that he or she.need have no hesi-
tancy in placing themselves entirely in your hands, as
you will treat them honestly and faithfully as you did me.”
A Leading Medical Pract’tioner eulogises our system of
treatment; Dr. THOMAS HORTON, L.R.C.P.', Edin.,
L.R.C.S., Edin., and L.M., wrote : “ I am justified in
saying that in all cases in which I had prescribed your
Electro-Medical forms of treatment to my patients, I
have found they have given every satisfaction, and I have
had every reason to be pleased with the result.”
The Institute is constantly receiving from all sources
earnest testimonies from cured patients, who, it will be
seen, are amongst the most respected members of the
social and commercial classes.
The foregoing are only a few important testimonials
taken from many hundreds of others. They tend to prove
the wonderful efficacy of the Freeman and Wallace
methods over all others, which justifies the assertions of
the SPECIALISTS that IT IS THE ONLY SUPERIOR
TREATMENT IN AUSTRALASIA WHICH A PATIENT
MAY OBTAIN.
«
Since the ELECTRO-MEDICAL AND SURGICAL IN-
STITUTE first placed its advantages before the public of
Australasia it has always been spoken favorably of by the
combined press of the various States now comprising' the
Commonwealth of Australia. These press notices, culled
from journals of high authority in the social and political
world, circulating in the largest, most refined and intel-
lectual centres, are sufficient in themselves to bring con-
viction to the minds of the most sceptical, who may be
inclined to indulge in doubt as to the practical and effi-
cient working of so vast an institution.
READ WHAT SOME OF THEM SAY:
SYDNEY BULLETIN: —“The Institute is unquestion-
ably the medical feature of Sydney and Melbourne. A
quarter of a century ago it first came before the Austra-
lian public, and though receiving strong opposition from
the medical profession, on account of its anti-conserva-
tive principles, it passed greatly into favor through the
importance of its parcel-post services and the great cures
effected by its Specialists.”
TOCSIN (Melbourne) Messrs. Freeman and Wal-
lace, the eminent Specialist of Sydney, in adopting the
only possible means of maintaining so wide a connection,
have not adhered strictly to the old-fashioned ideas of
medical etiquette. Like Collingworth, the daringly suc-
cessful hero of Conan Doyle’s Medical Memoirs, they
recognise the folly of permitting too nice considerations
to stand between themselves and the welfare of humanity.
It must be admitted that complete success has justified
their efforts. At present these two widely-known
Specialists have the confidence of the largest circle of
patients in Australia.”
OTAGO WITNESS (N.Z.)—“ Every class of ailment is
professionally treated with that singular skill and know-
ledge which is the result of conscientious and scientific
labor.”
ADELAIDE CRITIC :—“ The Freeman and Wallace
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute holds a position
of high significance.”
ADELAIDE OBSERVER “ Among the most famed
■end scientifically replete institutions in the world is the
Freeman and Wallace Electro-Medical and Surgical Insti-
tute. ... It is presided over by a staff of skilled Specialists
in Nerve and Blood Diseases.”
WEEKLY CHRONICLE (N.Z.) : —“ It has been proved
that a limited medicated Electric current infused into
the nervous system invigorates the entire system. The
Specialists of the Freeman and Wallace Institute have
made a study of such methods, and have achieved re-
markable results."
TOWN AND COUNTRY JOURNAL and EVENING
NEWS, Sydney By reason of wide and varied expe-
rience in the treatment of disease, has deservedly
acquired a great reputation throughout Australasia.”
KALGOORLIE MINER, W.A. “ The Specialists con-
nected with this great Medical Institution enjoy a very
large practice, extending over Australasia. Their postal
facilities are unique. The names of the Specialists are
household words throughout Australasia.”
TRUTH (Sydney), in referring to “Clinical Experi-
ences,” the medical book published by the Freeman and
Wallace Institute, says:—“lt must be frankly conceded
that in placing within the reach of the people a scientific
work like this, the proprietors of the Electro-Medical and
Surgical Institute have done a public benefaction, and no
doubt their effort will meet the approval it deserves. It
must not be forgotten that to compile such a compen-
dium of information a very wide-reaching research and
unremitting study are required.”


While thin hair and baldness are
undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of women
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
The hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from neglect. So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should use
lifer's
%air Vigor
gas
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in
any way troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap imitations which will only
disappoint you. Malto suro you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
For Sunburn
rkf F Quick relief can bo
UM t J obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERTS
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester
England.
OG
x)G
Be rosy and strong by
enriching your blood
and filling out your
form with the aid of
Scott t s Emulsion* You
cannot go on being
anaemic, languid, apa-
thetic or downhearted
at the same time as
you are taking Scottts
which is bound to
delight you with the
feelings of vigour, *£
buoyancy and pulsing
life it always brings*
104 Morehead Street, Redfern, Sydney,
N.S.W., Sept. I, 19C5. “For a long time
my daughter Ruby, aged twelve years, had
been very delicate and anaemic. At last I
decided to give Scott’s Emulsion a trial.
My daughter was able to take it readily, it
agreed well with her, and so thoroughly
built up her system that she is not like the
same child, being now a fine healthy and
sprightly girl.” (Mrs.) Jessie Foss.
Scott’s Emulsion of cod liver oil and hypo-
phosphites of lime and soda is the most
tiourishing of all food-medicines; it is made
by the celebrated original Scott process and
is pure and wholesome. &£■&&&
Always get the Enrol-
gion with this mark—the
«ishman—the mark of
the “Scott” process 1
Scott's cannot offend
your taste, cannot upset
your stomach.
It will ccst you nothing
to begin today! Write
for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d.for postage
and mentioning this pa-
per). Scott & Bowne,
Ltd., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
IRISH MOSS
_ nR -The best remedy-
rUn "“- INFLUENZA, *
COUCHS.
Ask for Banning ton’s
and seetkatyou get it.
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
N
QD
Waltham
watches
m
□D
an
8Q
'par
JDoCODODI
3DDni
SB
G
§n
8S
Better than ever —
the best watches in
Behind gj
half
j=j§ the world.
§B them are
ot7q
century
□□ reputation and
□□
a
of
aa
rSQ
High eg
§3 strong guarantee, [p
m,
te
dis
good for all time.
WIVEL TUG of- WAR.
The
IVEL
AGRICULTURAL
MOTOR +
Nineteen Gold and Silver Medals awarded
in Great Britain, 1904-5.
Direct Haulage on Farm, Station or Plantation for
all kinds of Implements, and as a Stationary Engine
all the-uses steam is now applied.
Full information from the Sole Agents—
HAM & OWEN, 17 Bridge St., SYDNEY
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
ħ
His Majesty
The King and
Royal Family.
MO JR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY
IT, and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIS AND SON, Limited
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
[1
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
»
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
Tne Queen s?.ys:—“ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
S£S THE I.ABEU ON THE SELYEDQE.
Various Verses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ponds in Sydney’s Centennial Park
are fast going into the possession of the gluttonous
shag. It is futile to attempt fish acclimatisation
with myriads of these birds about. Now that
young trout are being introduced to N.S.W.
rivers, the shags should be looked to. One time,
there was 6d. a head on them, but instead of that,
the Government now provides them with a safe
breeding-ground, from which they can scour the
country.
“ The Hack ” tells some extraordinary
stories :
Re the truth of the tradition that the mate of a married
snake which has come to an untimely end will, within
24 hours thereafter, be found on the spot marked by an
x (x marks the scene of the tragedy vide Sydney Weekly
Crime). Some years ago I was strolling through the
scrub outside Portland (Vic.), when the most horrible
sensation I ever experienced went through me, and I
pulled up just in time to avoid treading on a black snake
which lay stretched across the narrow cattle-track. It
was the first snake I had seen outside a cage, and, being
anxious to distinguish myself, I hunted round till I found
a stout piece of driftwood. Then I stole cautiously back,
and smote that snake the hardest smite I was capable of,
The snake didn’t offer any objection, but, to prevent acci-
dents, I continued to assault and batter it for five
minutes. Then I turned it over with my cudgel, and
found to my disgust that it had been dead all the while,
for it was minus its head. Some three yards further
on, however, I almost trod on another snake—this time
a live one. It glided away before me, but I succeeded
in killing it. A few mornings later, I killed another black
snake, and hung it over a fence. .Returning some four
hours afterwards, I was surprised to see a live snake
curled round the rail alongside the dead one. Biking to
Port Fairy (Vic.), a year later, I came across a recently-
killed black snake right in the centre of the road, with a
live one coiled beside it. Latter raised its head as I rode
up, but made no effort to escape. I killed it with my
bike-pump.
Remember, also, being told a remarkable story of this
snake-peculiarity by the lighthouse-keeper at Cape Nelson
(Vic.). He o: ce (so he alleged) killed a tiger-snake, and
hung it up in the lighthouse to scare his mate. Mrs.
Tiger-snake arrived before liis mate, however, and nearly
scared the life out of him by suddenly springing at him
through the doorway' of the room where her husband’s
corpse was suspended. He had hardly disposed of her
when her eldest son arrived and took up the quarrel.
During the following month, he avers, the other members
of the family arrived one after another til! the whole of
them were exterminated by the slaughter of a tenth-
cousin of the first murdered. I won’t vouch for the truth
of this yarn, however.
Re snakes. Are your other readers affected by them
as I am? They always fill me with an extraordinary feel-
ing of horror. 1 don’t think the feeling is one of fear, for
I have always attempted to kill them when I have seen
them, even when I might have avoided them. Nor have
I experienced such a feeling regarding any other danger,
though, in my brief career, I have had a number of
narrow escapes. For instance, was caught, while a
youngster, in a quicksand off Sumner Beach (Maoriland);
fell from a bridge into a ravine 20ft. deep (Maoriland);
was a passenger on the ill-fated Wairarapa on the trip
during which it caught fire in mid-ocean ; was bogged in
a suburban clay-hole and nearly drowned (Melbourne) ;
have been swept quarter of a mile along an open sewer
(Melbourne);-lost in the bush for two days (Mt. Gambier);
upset in the Yarra three times boating (couldn’t swim at
the time, either); tossed by a bull (Redesdale); bitten by a
tarantula, poisoned by meat from a cook-shop, and twice
knocked down by bolting horses ; was crushed under a
fence round the* Equitable building (Melb.) during a
crane collapse in which, I think, three men were killed ;
have fallen 30ft. from a gum tree, had 20 tons of books
and shelving collapse on me, been wakened by a fireman
smashing in my bedroom window', was a passenger on the
Cintra on the trip during which it was burnt out in Port-
land Bay (Vic.), also once climbed the cliffs right behind
the Portland rifle-butts just in time to be greeted by the
first volley of the afternoon’s practice (another man was
shot dead in the same plaee through doing the same
thing about a year later), and have had about thirty
bicycle Yet I’d sooner go through the whole
lot again than see a snake wriggling in the grass at my
feet. Why
My Lady Silence.
The side sun on the mountains makes
Red the decaying gums,
When through the bushes and the breaks
My Lady Silence comes.
All day she curls her white limbs there,
In shadow-folded dells;
But never a wanderer wanders where
My Lady Silence dwells.
Fast in her silken net she holds
Dead butterflies of sound ;
All song and speech she takes and folds
Into her sleep profound.
Sleep is her coronet, her domain
Spans the wide country, fills
The grey-lit town of want and pain
With peace from folded hills.
Sounds of still waters are her voice,
Spent winds sleep in her hair ;
The cries of dead men who rejoice,
Enshroud her, slumbering there.
She holds the dream of coming bliss,
The half-forgot desires;
The blue mist on the mountain is
The smoke of her far fires.
But when the train shrieks to the cloud,
And ploughs the silent deeps,
Amongst the bushlands in her shroud,
My Lady Silence weeps.
When new days light the township roofs,
I hear—the morn begun—
The sound of her free horses’ hoofs
Rush, fearful, from the sun.
VIC.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
The Singer.
I watch from out my curtained room
The anxious crowd press down the street;
Below, their faces white the gloom ;
Above, the dull roofs almost meet.
They never pause, they hurry by,
The smoke, the din, are everywhere,
A narrow strip of clouded sky
Is all I have of light and air.
But sometimes at the break of day,
When stars are fading into blue,
A Singer wanders down the way,
Singing as if the world were new.
“/ know a hidden place” he sings,
“ Where dew drops hold the earliest light,
And silent, happy, growing things
Blossom in crimson, blue, awl white ;
The dawn-wind, stirs the snowy thorn,
And high in air its fragrance flings —
There wakes a rainbow-tinted morn
In my far-hidden place,” he sings.
And sometimes when the moon is high
(At each mid-month she’s overhead),
My careless singer loiters by
And sings of days remembered.
He sings : “ Oh distant eve, awake
Green-silvered thro ’ the orchard bloom !
Leave, Nightingale, for love’s dear sake
Your silence and sequestered gloom!
Far up, the last of daylight dies, ■
Down orchard aisles the far song rings
Wood-bowered, a farther yet replies
Across the quiet dark,” he sings.
Then to my stifled heart there comes
A waking all too wildly sweet,
I lose the mutter of the slums,
The dust and thunder of the street.
The healing silence wraps me round.
The sunshine makes me whole again ;
Oh dreamful ease ! Nor sight nor sound
Can call me back to toil and pain.
What matter if the way be long,
The blessed end or far or near
While echo-faint I hear the song
As fairy music fine and clear !
He sings; “ Beyond the dreary town
I know a deep untrodden way
That wanders greenly up and down
Toward the clear birthplace of the day.
The shafted sunlight creeps and clings
Athwart that moss-grown way and dim, —
Come follow, follow me,” he sings.
And I—l rise and follow him.
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
The Widow.
Sitting alone in the shadow,
While the glad children play
Out on the bright-eyed meadow
Ever by day and day.
“ She is the Widow,” the neighbors
Say, if'you ask her name ;
Morning and noon she labors,
Stitching away her shame.
All the young children love her,
Clamber upon her knee ;
She is the children’s “mother”—
Only one child had she.
Back from the love-fields weeping,
Once in the long ago.
Came a young mother reaping
Harvest of bitter woe.
Blue is the sky of morning—
Blue as the deep-sea wave—
Blue is the daisy awning
Over a tiny grave.
Sitting alone in the shadow,
While the glad children play
Out on the bright-green meadow
Ever by day and day.
Think we of them, my brothers—
We who are all to blame —
The white-souled, ringless mothers
Stitching away their shame ?
TAS.
G. LOUIS RANDALL.


Australian
Established 1849. '
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
ombmed) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
tJaTian ®« ent i? re ?’ Ascribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tra.lia.n States or New Zealand PP AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Om new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETXXIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
. & *
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
54
y
ss
5<
ss
wvwww <!:;
O
*
kV
21
FROM
111.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABUS
FROM
2.11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Aicock&C° 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
MILLIARDS has
, long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
Cures While
You Sleep
r ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING GOUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD.
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Yapo-Cresolene complete 7-6; Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6; 4 oz. 5 2-3; 2 oz., 1-3.
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY, LTD.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN
“of P Men Ind WomA, S n" t" d Bl °° d ?'. SOl “ 6S ' “<* »« Specific Complaint.
J 0 ™;,"^«^™^ e^b#TlpP^A^ s ° u “ an ““ 1 -
weatjen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
the Nerves, Debility, Lost I»owe*-, Restore Dost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain -.net Nerves
ro Cl firf the Pet H P S ° f Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency and Desoair
e»?°« eS ’ 6S ’ & 12S ‘ Coupse > 23 /6. Special Powerful Double’ Course, 435. 6*d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS. Pe ¥L Cont^ i P usßloodlandSklnDiseas es,
Disorders BOXES 6=: S ,P pes : Urinary Troubles, and a-ll Blood
nr onrV ™ Bcmlc * COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CA-PSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
MBUiaiGM Speeial p oweP ful Double Course. 435. 6d.
SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing 1 Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE :
481 HAY ST., PERTH, W.A.; 111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTQN QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
A VIVID ACCOUNT.
FOR YOUR BENEFIT.
THE CASE OF MR. S. SHAW.
(By a Sydney Heporter.)
A vivid account appears belows of the extraordinary experiences of Mr. Samuel Shaw, of No. 208
Liverpool-street, Sydney, where he has been living for the past fifteen years.
“ It is over half a century ago since I came from Manchester to this country,” Mr. Shaw observed
to a reporter, “and up to a certain period I had nothing to complain of about my health. Then my
luck changed, and for fully ten years I had an annual visit from a complaint that seemed to have got
hold me for good.”
“ What was the nature of it ? ” enquired the pressman.
“It was neuralgia that paid me those yearly attentions, but in addition to that I was greatly
troubled with indigestion. Indeed, I blame the latter for causing the former, as it was when I
became.unable to digest my food, that I first noticed how sadly my general health was falling off.
My system seemed to go to pieces bit by bit, and then my nerves had just about broken down alto-
gether, when my physical tortures were at their worst. The pains in my head were so terribly severe
that the softest pillow felt as if it were filled with sharp edged stones that cut right into me. All
about my jaws and gums I was so sore and tender that 1 could not bear anything to touch me, and I
would flinch from the application of a piece of wadding as though it was a hard, rough substance of a
penetrating character.”
“ I suppose your sleep would be greatly interfered with ? ”
“Oh ! don’t mention anything about sleep, for I positively dread to recall the numberless nights
that I put in without getting any at all—simply turning from side to side in such agony that often I
wished myself dead instead of existing in such misery. Sometimes the pains would take one side of
my head and face, and on other occasions the opposite side would be affected. My eyes, round the
back of my neck —goodness ! I don’t know where the pain did not exist. It was awful, and you can
easily imagine how much suffering can make one’s life a burden to him. I know mine was, for I was
dreadfully melancholy. There was always some fearful thing going to happen, according to my mind.
Troubleineveiy direction, and the strange part of it was that, although the calamities did not occur when I
imagined they would, still I could not help worrying over the same notions on subsequent days.
That will show you what an unhappy frame of mind I found myself in owing to my excessive
weakness, and it was surprising how irritable the least thing used to make me. The slightest
noise coming suddenly threw me into a state of excitement and caused my nerves to shake quite
visibly, and if I exerted myself a little bit the trembling was just as bad. The trouble was that
the longer my sufferings continued the worse they became. My organs of digestion were getting
more incapable of doing their work every day, and although, owing to the poorness of my appe-
tite, I took but very little food, still it was always enough to greatly increase the torments I was
already enduring.”
“ You had made efforts to overcome those afflictions, I expect ?”
“Repeatedly I had tried, but it all seemed useless. Years ago I had consulted a doctor in Victoria,
and again in Sydney I had placed myself under the care of several medical experts, who could not
cure me, and naturally I thought my load of suffering would eventually drag me down to the grave.
My attempts to get better did not cease when the doctors’ medicines failed. No ; I tried many others,
only to be again doomed to disappointment, for the heavy feelings in the chest were still there after
taking a little food, the annoying pains between my shoulders had not moved an inch, and the
aching sensations across my loins were just as troublesome as ever. I still got up with a coated tongue
and a nasty taste of a morning, the sudden giddy turns had not yet been checked, and the appalling
sense of utter feebleness and dejection was bearing down upon me more forcibly and more alarmingly
than ever. One thing was certain—that a change one way or the other would soon take place, and it
was a decided change for the better that came, and the cause of it all was nothing but Clements’
Tonic, and that is the reason why I have since recommended that remedy to hundreds of other people,
who have always thanked me for my advice afterwards. Do you know that I had quite given up hope
of ever being cured, and had lost all faith in medicines because of having tried every one of them
without any good resulting, and would never have taken Clements’ Tonic only that I happened to
pick up an old paper and saw in it the names of some influential people, friends of mine, who were
testifying to its efficacy. That day I got some Clements’ Tonic, and the very first night I obtained a
little ease.”
“ How long ago is that ?”
“Eight years or more, and I am indeed grateful to be able to say that ever since my health has
been all that I could wish, for by continuing Clements’ Tonic for a while I succeeded in throwing off
all the ailments that had made me thoroughly sick and tired of my life. Little by little the neuralgic
pains that for years had nearly driven me mad abated. It really seemed too good to be true, but there
was no doubt about the complete manner in which Clements’ Tonic cured me. Not only did my head
pains ultimately die away and never occur again, but I gained in health all round. It was something
new for me to fall asleep soon after settling down in bed and not wake again till breakfast time, and
didn’t I feel the better for it! Truly, it is only fair to say that Clements’ Tonic made an
entirely new man of me, for in every way I felt different. In a few weeks I was taking food
as heartily as ever, but what I appreciate more was being able to digest all I ate. Yes; Clements’
Tonic put my digestion right and no mistake, and I often think what a wonderful medicine it must be
in view of my many previous failures with other so-called remedies. My doctors told me my liver and
nerves were out of order, so I am sure of not making a mistake when I advise my friends to take
Clements’ Tonic for those complaints, as it cured me thoroughly. After all 1 had endured it was
delightful to again feel fresh and vigorous, to forge ahead and find enjoyment in everything that I
came in contact with. So different from being weak and shaky, melancholy and irritable, like I had
been ; but I soon had every cause to be cheerful, for Clements’ Tonic had driven away each pain and
discomfort that had clouded my life so long. My system was splendidly toned and strengthened
throughout, and ever since I have enjoyed good, sound, robust health ; so you may publish these facts
in any way it pleases you.
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, SAMUEL SHAW, of 208 Lirerpool-street, Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth o: Aus-
tralia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains, and is a true and faithful account of
my illness and cure by Clements’ Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my
statements—which I give voluntarily without receiving any payment ; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Sgd.) SAMUEL SHAW.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney this fourth day of November, one thousand nine hundred and four, before me,
WALTER J. GROGAN. J.P.
USSELL'S
✓UNSWEETENED
It does not
thicken. It
Fop Infant Feeding
it is Perfect.
ILK
h
FOSSELL & CO., LTD.
London, England.
Ilhi. ill. .IK If. .ill/i .nlti A
Sole Agents for Now South Wales e-BURNS, PHILP & CO., Lttf.
I
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
5
| INDIGESTION.
1 CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
C There's SECURITY in
IRTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
•Small Pill. Small Dose. Small Price*
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
sub Carter's


Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Corner LITTLE COLLINS & ELIZABETH STS.,
MELBOURNE.
AS it is necessary for tiie Trustees to bring- this business
A to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, special high-grade trap gun, fitted with
treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
6 Single-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, top action,
best quality barrels, choke bore, pistol grip,
walnut stock. Usual Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Baden-Powell Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridge to
kill at 100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price £0 8 9
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, choke bore, with cartridge machine
and cleaners complete. Usual Price, £5.
Sale Price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridge. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£Ol5O
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 7s. 6d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per 100
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
•LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The * Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy ’
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport Remedy'
for Coughs and Colds. Gives immediate relief.
.‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and Colds,
Gives instant relief to Asthma and Bronchitis.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ of 40 years’ proven efficacy
for Coughs, Colds, Asthma and Bronchitis, &e.
COAGULINE.
Transparent Cement
for broken articles.
‘LINUM CARTH ART [CUM PILLS ’ of Mountain
Flax. Agreeably Aperient. Worthy of trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed, for Coughs and Colds.
THE BALLET GIRL
ĥ
ħ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confe.-sions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
IV! ad ame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!
NOT A PENNY DOWN
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest impr >ved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all Weakness of Men and Women.
Ute will aloe Free
to us one copy of our beautilully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
men and women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our
splendid Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, Via
Please mention this paper.
h
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
Is allowed on every cycle bought ol us. Your
Money in full refunded without qn stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST ~ - - -
MODELS
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or C lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Him
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
Packed and Delivered Free
.0 any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
nnn Second-Hand Cycles
ZUU all makes, £2.10
good as new, "*■* ***
Great factory clearance sale at half factory prices.
EARN o CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan! ed in each district. Large profits easily rr ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our s/ieoil "jf'er, using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, &c..hal f pricei.
MEAD GYGLE GO - Dept.
LIVERPOOL, LONDON AND CHICAGO.
mm
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane.
BELLEVUE HOTEL
BRISBANE.
(Opposite Post and Telegraph Office, Parliament House, and
Botanic Gardens.)
CONDUCTED on Continental system—no Meals, no charge,
when previously advised. The Hotel has been thoroughly
renovated, and Ladies’ and Gents’ Bathrooms and Lavatories
on each floor added. Three minutes from the centre of the
town, and yet in the quietest locality. Porter meets all
trains and steamers.
W. PETERMANN,
Also Imperial, Toowoomba. Proprietor.
ĥ
The Ideal Beverage
for weather extremes.
CADBURY'S
Absolutely Pure
An invaluable food-
drink foryoung t old,
at all times c. seasons.
“The Standard of Highest Purity-Tife Lancet
‘A Perfect food"-//ealt/i.
4r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL I
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it-; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARASENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 5s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6 ; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins St., Melbourne
ħ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
h
*> a
* /
Sj
'* *
r .
i
/7a
ĥ
If yon don’t know how,
ask your friends ; read
the papers ; note the
men who have been ill,
and got well again ; in-
vestigate for yourself,
and you will find the
reply from all genuine
sources is CONSULT THE
PHYSICIANS OF THE
m LANGSTON INSTITUTE
Their experience ex
tends over many years
of phenomenally suc-
cessful practice, and
THEY HAVE NEVER
FAILED TO CURE
Weak, Ailing, and Despondent Men, start the right
way about it to get Cured—go to the Fountain Head
and; either write to, or consult personally, the
Greatest Living Authorities on
NERVE, BLOOD, AND SKIN DISEASES.
OUR ELECTRO-MEDICAL TREATMENT IS
THE LATEST DISCOVERY IN MEDICAL
SCIENCE —IT NEVER FAILS.
WRITE at once for Dr. Langston's
Latest Medical Work,
“MENS SANA IN GORPORE SANO.”
The Book is written for sufferers' to
understand, and points out the way
to a permanent cure. It tells you
what you want to know, and what you
ought to know.
POSTED FREE TO ALL.
THIS MAN KNEW WHAT TO DO.
Head his experience:
Bessiebelle, Broadwater.
Dear Doctor, —I have to state that
I feel splendid. Your treatment has
done me a world of good. There is no
further weakness, and I have no ner-
vous symptoms. lam sending you the
balance of your fee with this report,
and I hereby express my sincere thanks
for the great good you have done me.
Yours truly, BOBT. THOMSON.
THE
Dr. LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CONSULTATION FREE. ESTABLISHED ISS7.
When writing , mention this' paper.
WHEN
SEASONS
CHANGE
It behoves one to take special pre-
cautions against Chills and Colds
by wearing next the body
AERTEX
CELLULAR . .
UNDERWEAR
All garments of underwear, for both
Ladies and Geutlemen—SHlßTS,
PYJAMAS, &c., and the materials
by the yard, stocked by
Sole Agents in N.S.W. :
DAVID BRAHAM <fc CO -
-94 King Street, Sydney.
Call or write for ILLUSTRATED PRICE
LIST —Post Free.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting .
Thirty Years 8
unbeaten and increas-
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
flnMge
£ung Tonic
to be the WOULD'S CURE
for Coughs, Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troub les.
It canba obtained from
any Chemist or Store,
and Saves Many
Lives.
s/w Fo *
BOSISTOS
“PARROT '
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES-*
W THOUSANDS OF ■
RUPTURED
PEOPLE have been and are being I
fHIDCII b y Dr Langston’s Perfect |
Cl Until Combined Treatment.
No Pain, Operation, or Detention from
Work. Immediate Relief, and Certain
Cure. Convincing Testimony and Refer-
ences from nearly every town in Australia
sent with my Valuable Book—
I “RUPTURE, ITS HISTORY &. CURE” |
FREE.
Posted 2 Stamps.
THE LANGSTON INSTITUTE
129 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars iree. Address —
J AS. C R A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


SKINSSHIDES
>
"p^
\
f
J. Rennon&sons
are the . . .
Largest Tanners and Exporters
of Raw S'{ins in Victoria
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
Rabbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S. W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Safes sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Rennon & vSons
TANNERS <& EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria,
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
\ B or NS W - 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £IOCO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of apeident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total.
Disablement; (S) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through,
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H, BAXTER, Res. Sec.
THE.
OLDSMOBILE
A Good Investment.
7 H.P. TOURING RUNABOUT.
7 H.P. STANDARD RUNABOUT.
t?ttm°a out -° f - doors enjoyment can be had from the OLDSMOBILE
ItUA ABOUT than from the same money spent in any other way. All the
annoying automobile uncertainties that may have prevented you from buying
a machine have been overcome to the smallest detail in this strong, handsome
reliable car. ’
Costs practically nothing for repairs with intelligent handling. It has been
strengthened and built up to the highest point of efficiency, and is as well
adapted for touring as for city use—as the successful trip of two of these cars
across the American Continent, and the 3000-mile endurance run in England,
and the 00-day Continental trip, have proven.
Send for Catalogue showing the Oldsmobile line; the lowest prices for the
highest efficiency.
7 H.P. Standard 7 H.P. 20 H.P. 10 H.P. 16 H.P.
Runabout. Touring Runabout. 2-Cyl. Touring Oar. Light Tonneau. Commercial Car.
OLDS MOTOR WORKS, Lansing, Mich.
Motor Garage of Sydney, Ltd., 253 Elizabeth St„ Sydney.
[
.»%*• ni
g-
•’ l; mir l f 1.1! *
UMG,
.22 calibre cartridges can
be relied upon to help
dean out the rabbit pests..
U. M. C. -.22 short and long
cartridges, loaded withblack
or smokeless powder,
if
J 1 are accurate,; surerof fire, and have great killing power.
| Furnished with ungreasedbullets, also made with hollow-
point bullets, which are'very effective on small game.
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
liftl! 11! l!!! il'l!ii !. B^ l p®®'P®RT» U* S. A. , jii Ij j i Jim,, m| j i//|
: Jh
■T
I
<f\ ■ • V.
w
wsiteT'■:«*
t>ri- ■
.
■:■ , - : , f
>*
wsiS
:i '■■
mm n r
— /
?SI
- , ‘
V.
ail
\
£L - • V
. /
m : ’u
m
!*'4 y
■ -V:.'
'
o- ■ ■
; *:. v • :
Mr
■ - -
.
msm.
-
i
mm
■. ......... • .
-
OID
in
LIGHTNING,
HAIL,
WIND, or
RAIN,
IT IS ALL THE
SAME TO ... .
RUBEROID
ROOFIN
Lightning never strikes
RUBEROID; the
strongest wind storm cannot
shift it; hail bounces off it;
while ayeaPs rain would run
off it like water fron'i ad uck’s
back. RUBEROID
is the roofing for you.
ALL STOREKEEPERS,
or
E. RICH & CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY and BRISBA.\E.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27. No. 1379.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1906.
Prick 6n.
AN ILLUSTRATED PAR.
“I must stand on my principles!” said G. Reid at Maryborough (Q.). But it is one thing to stand on your
principles, and quite another to jump on them.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the Australians.'’
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(Tn Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tins Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every 'week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
llotv to Address Tetters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
•methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
■invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor 'will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 icords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fomvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlaole aml White.
Anyone supplying to Tiie Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufiicient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which lids to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Ofiice, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson Co., 28 lliebeek Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Anting, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Uong Kong .—Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Sjrecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Tj^^xzlleZzn.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, 1906.
A “REFORM” PARLIAMENT.
Short of a dissolution, with a disqualification of
any member of the “Reform ” Parliament (what
a fine satirical name !) standing as a candidate at
the ensuing elections, there seems to be little hope
of promptly restoring decent government to N.S.
Wales. That extreme remedy is of course out of
the question, and the almost certain inefficacy of
anything short of it adds to a deplorably
scandalous position the sting of hopelessness. At
the present time a vote of censure on the existing
N.S.W. Government, in the name of Mr.
M‘Gowen, is pending. That it will not be carried
is almost certain. The Garrutheks Government,
which draws its support from sections so widely
apart as those represented by Mr. Wade and
Mr. Crick, Mr. Norton and Mr. David Fell —
and has all those gentlemen as brothers-iu-arms
in its defence —is entrenched too strongly. If it
were to happen that a pang of conscience, a
sudden realisation of the serious responsibilities
of their duty, forced enough members from the
Carruthers side into Opposition and gave Mr.
M‘Gowen a majority, it is hard to see what
benefit would result, unless a dissolution were to
promptly follow and a chance given to the
electors to purge the House. For the evil is not
confined to the Government. Certainly the Gover-
nment represents either the most impudent gang
of political schemers that ever disgraced a legisla-
ture, or is set of blundering fools fit only for a
political idiot asylum ; and no Administration in
any Australian State has ever so fully deserved
censure and dismissal. But, the Government done
with, there seems no likelihood, indeed little pro-
bability, of asucceeding Administration being able
to restore much dignity and decenc , to the Legis-
lature. The debates of the session, and the acts
which this Parliament has tolerated, pillory it as
incurably bad. If there existed in the House any
group of honest, sensible, and courageous men
there would be some hope; if indeed there were
on the roster of members, one—just one—
individual with strength of mind, wit and
perseverance, he would long ago have been
Premier forcing the House to follow him, or he
would be now Premier-designate by the voice of
the country, the electors waiting only the oppor-
tunity to acclaim him leader and give him power.
But there is not one. Some honest folk there, of
course, are. It would be extraordinary if among
90 men all should be bad. But when there is
honesty there is weakness; and members group
themselves into two divisions, the stupid and the
scandalous.
* * * *
If the Labor party, which forms the Opposition,
had any clear claim to public confidence, Mr.
Carruthers would have been out of power a
year ago. If in the Carruthers following—which
includes nearly a score of men who openly profess
to be ashamed of him as leader, and to be kept from
seceding to the Opposition only by the fact that
the Opposition is “just as bad”—there were one
or two members of real character and ability, they
would long ago have ousted him from office. But
the mournful fact is that Mr. Carruthers is
easily the ablest man in the House, and also is the
man whose character and temperament most
nearly represent those of the majority of members.
He has no dignity ; nor has the House. He lacks
courage; that fits the Assembly. He has no
definite principles; that provides no point of
difference. His ideal is to drift along, sneaking
out of this difficulty, scraping through this
escape hole, content with contemptuous tolera-
tion when he cannot command support and
respect; that too is the ideal of the House
which he leads. It would indeed be some-
thing of an offence against the fitness of
things, conveying an impression of inartistic
incongruity, if anyone but Mr. Carruthers led
the N.S.W. Parliament. Mr. Wade is suggested
by some as an alternative, Mr. Ashton by others.
Both are putty men compared with their unre-
vered leader, mere wax figures, whose reputation
for rugged strength, gained on the football field,
or by a long series of refusals of office, comes in
handy to Joseph when he is dressing his political
shop-front. To change him for one of them would
be deposing King Joseph to enthrone in his stead
Joseph’s little finger.
No, Mr. Joseph Hector McNeil Carruthers is
the “natural leader” of this NiS. Wales Parlia-
ment, the fittest man to keep it to its muddy ruts.
When that is said, there is really nothing more to
add of condemnation. Were Mr. M‘Go wen to
succeed him, it is probable that a far more honest
attempt would be made to grapple with the
scandals which, like a fowler’s mesh, surround the
Parliament. But it is doubtful that the public
would believe so. The Labor party is indelibly
stained by the fact that, dazzled by the Owe’Sul-
livan, it consistently supported the original Lands
Scandals administration, and that in the present
Parliament it has shown itself thoroughly
insincere on the subject of financial reform,
and resolute only in Opposition when it
came to stonewalling Local Government or
Liquor reform. Further, one fact seems to
be admitted on all sides out of the murk of the
recent scandalous accusations and counter-accusa-
tions, that the Labor party—or some of its repre-
sentatives—applied to a Sydney tote-man for
financial support. The scandal of W Ren’s rela-
tion with a section of the Victorian Labor party
is an open sore which all may see. There seems
to be a canker of the same sort in N.S. Wales.
Nothing can more discredit a political party than
the suspicion that it is willing to reinforce its
funds from the coffers of men who live on the
follies of the workers, and who, being depen-
dent for their existence on the law’s toler-
ance, are naturally generous with gifts with
which they may hope to purchase political
aid in time of trouble. That suspicion
attaches itself to the N.S. Wales Labor
party now, not so much from Mr. Norton’s charge
that a tote-man was levied on, or sought to be
levied on, for the. Labor party funds, as from the
practical admission of the fact from the other side.
There is, thus, some reasonableness in the stand
of those who are unwilling to replace Mr. Car-
ruthers with a Labor Government. But there is
no reason in their refusal, on that excuse, to dis-
miss Mr. Carruthers from office, for his dismissal
could be , promptly followed by that of Mr.
M‘Go wen, and a scandalous Parliament then sent
for judgment to its masters. But a scandalous
Parliament, for the reason that it is scandalous,
has no wish to face that judgment; so Mr. Car-
ruthers remains in office.
* * * *
There is little of comfort in studying the pro-
gressive degeneration of N.S.W. Parliament
since Mr. George Dibbs was defeated at the polls.
Mr. Reid, who followed him, only gained the
office by a “palace conspiracy,” stepping into
power over the murdered body of Heny Parkes ;
and only kept office by the shabby tricks of the
demagogue. Mr. Lyne, who followed, with Mr.
Owe’Sullivan as his chief colleague, did nothing
to better things, so far as Parliament itself was
concerned. True, his record of useful legis-
lation was good, but the degeneration of
the Assembly as a deliberative body con-
tinued, and with it the policy of keep-
ing power by buying support. Mr. John See,
who followed, won his electoral warrant largely by
the exposure of the scandalous relations of the
Lyne Government with the Sydney Daily Tele-
graph, relations in which he, as a colleague of
Mr. Lyne, had necessarily been a participant.
The See Government, which was really a Ciuck-
Owe’Sullivan Government, was followed by a
Waddell Administration, which only went to
the country to be massacred. At that general
election a strenuous effort was made to
give a real issue to the contest and on a
platform of financial honesty to rally a party
of honesty and good government. The Labor
party refused to stand on that platform, as
did the two other parties (the majority of
those few men who professed a sympathy
with the honesty issue, subsequently proved
to be insincere): and the attempt failed.
The election was fought mainly on the
sectarian issue: and it quite fitly resulted
in the return of this “Reform” Parliament,
marking about the lowest level to which the
N. S. W. legislature has as yet reached, and
having for its natural, fit and proper leader Mr.
Joseph Carruthers. A new election might
mend matters. So far as the range of human
speculation can go, it could not make them
worse. But Parliament, as it stands, is hopeless.
No mere change of Government would be of any
material use.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reid Goes to Queensland.
No one expects much from George Reid in the
way of political propriety. But the people of
Australia are entitled to expect, even from him, a
moderate amount of decency and honesty. They
are not getting it just now. His action ingoing
on a political tour to Queensland, with his absurd
anti-Socialistic show, in the middle of an impor-
tant session, is nothing short of an outrage. To
put the thing on the lowest ground, he is paid
£4OO a year to attend to his Parliamentary duties,
He doesn’t earn his money by talking rubbish
about Socialism in remote parts of Queensland,
It may be quite true that, if he were in his place
in the House, he would only be talking rubbish
about the Anti-Trust Bill. But that doesn’t
alter the complexion of his present performance,
which involves deliberate and wilful contempt of
duties which he is paid to attend to. Ever since
he has been in the House, Reid has consistently
placed his private interests before his public
duty. Except when he was in office, the House
never saw him when he had a ghost of a chance
of earning a fee by staying away. There may have
been some colorable excuse for this, in that a man
must support his family, and while the Parliamen-
tary allowance is so grossly inadequate, it is very
difficult for a member of Parliament to give proper
attention to both sets of duties. But whether the
excuse is good or bad, as applied to Reid’s absence
from the House for professional reasons, it does
not help him in his present performance. But
that is not the worst aspect of Reid’s action. Even
if he has not enough honesty to recognise that he
ought to do what he is paid to do, he might, as a
man who has been for a long time in public life,
and has held the highest offices in the people’s gift,
be expected to understand this rudimentary truth
—that the electors put a man into Parliament, not
for fun, but to get from him the best he can con-
tribute to the national policy. A Bill, according to
Reid and his noisy following, is before the House
which is going to sound the death-knell of com-
merce in Australia. If one-half of what Joseph
Cook and Co. are saying of the Anti-Trust Bill is
true, it is the most extravagantly wicked and
foolish measure that was ever introduced into a
civilised Legislature. And yet Reid’s con-
ception of his public duty allows him, at a
time when the whole commercial interests of Aus-
tralia are in deadly peril (according to him),
to conduct a useless political campaign at the
remote ends of the Commonwealth. Under the
circumstances, it is not surprising that the Syd-
ney Telegraph should find it necessary to apolo-
gise for its political hero. But Reid is peculiarly
unfortunate in his apologist. “ If he satisfies his
own party by his movements,” says this apostle
of lofty politics, “ that is quite enough for his
look-out.” Under the absurd party system, as
everyone knows, the interests of the country are
too often sacrificed to the interests of party. But
one doesn’t often find such a frank avowal of the
poisonous theory that a man is sent into Parlia-
ment solely to serve the interests of his own
party.
Audit in W.A.
Finance in Westralia is still a very casual busi-
ness. When the new Auditor-General was
appointed, two or three years back, he mildly
suggested (he had come out of a mercantile house)
that it wouldu’t be a bad idea if the business
departments of the State knew whether they
were paying or not. One or two of them said
that, now they had come to think of it, it might
be as well; but most of them merely sniffed.
Auditor-General Toppin repeated the mild sug-
gestion later on, and said something about busi-
nesses being run on business lines ; and the sort
or reply he got can be reckoned up from this
quotation (Auditor-General’s Report, 1905, just
published):—
A diversity of opinion exists as to accounts to be kept.
Where the nature of the business should require the suc-
cess or otherwise of the undertaking- to be disclosed, in
some instances endeavors are made to show the position ;
in others, it is contended that the Government system does
not require such information.
So the lordly public servant sits on his stool, with
the taxpayer to fall back upon, and with Cohen
behind the taxpayer, and asks what it matters
whether the blessed thing pays or not ! Of
course it would soon be made to matter if Cohen
shut off supplies, and the taxpayer had to part
up every cent that was spent or frittered away ;
but while the pawnshop is open, an awful waste
can go on, and the taxpayer never notices it.
But his children, to whom the bill is being passed
on, will notice it. Meantime the Labor party,
which is the party of State enterprise, the party
whose programme and prospects will suffer most
when it is discovered that State enterprises are
conducted in a sloveniy way—this party winks
at even the most prodigal borrowing. And so
its members are not only preparing a rod to
whip their own children, but they are building a
cross to crucify their own cause.
o
Jam Follows the Beef.
Those people who object to Pure Food legislation
on the ground that it is an outrageous interference
with Private Enterprise—and who in N.S. Wales
reinforce that bad argument with the worse one
that it is an outrageous interference with State
rights—chose an unhappy time to call with a pro-
test on N.S.W. Premier Carruthers. For it was
the day the English Jam was found out. Thought
of the iniquity of the American Beef had partly
faded from the public mind, when the cables
reported the “filthy condition” of British jam
factories, and a fresh wave of nausea put
the community in a mood to stomach any
degree of State interference rather than allow
Private Enterprise the freedom of its interior.
The case for allowing the dairy, the butter factory,
the abattoirs, the jam factory, and the bakery
the full “liberty of the subject” is hopeless, and
Private Enterprise may as well succumb to that
fact. The public is willing to tolerate a good deal
of interference with other people’s actions to
ensure the purity of its food supply; and State
Socialism will surely extend its domain to the
supply of all the alimentary necessaries of life
within a very short time. State or municipal
butcheries, bakeries and dairies already exist in
many parts of the world. Very shortly
they will exist in all civilised countries.
Meanwhile the food industries, while remaining in
private hands, must submit to an increasing vigil-
ance of State inspection. For it is clear that only
by State interference can decent conditions be
enforced. Modern industrialism and modern
means of transit and preservation have effected
startling changes in regard to food supply. Of
old—before the days of big cities, of cold storage
and of tinned goods—the supervision of food
supplies could be close and effectual since it was
purely local, and no village had to put up with
more dirt in its milk, bread and meat than it
actually eared for. (Sometimes it cared for a good
deal, but that does not effect the argument.) Now
food is put up in all parts of the world for other parts
to devour. Those who prepare have no kin with
those who will eat. In many cases, they are the
servants of grasping joint-stock companies which
have no gospel but that of dividends. There is
thus no neighborly feeling, and no consideration
of conscience to protect the consumer against
adulteration. And since adulteration is so vastly
profitable, some power must step in to impose a
check. That power can only be the State,
acting as trustee for the consumer. Within a
very short time no civilised country will allow
to be consumed within its boundaries any
food products which its inspectors have not
scrutinised, or which are not guaranteed by the
reliable State inspection of the exporting country.
This close State supervision will inevitably tend
to State ownership of all food preparation indus-
tries. But that will be Private Enterprise’s
proper punishment. As a food purveyor Private
Enterprise has proved such an unspeakable hog
as to deserve almost any kind of penalty.
The High Court.
It is proposed by the Australian Government to
add two Judges to the High Court, and thus
raise it to the strength originally proposed and
always necessary. But there is talk of opposition
and an effort to come to a “compromise decision ”
of a Bench of four. Such penny-wise-and-pound-
foolish economy is deplorable in a National
legislature. Were it a fact that three Judges
could, by strenuous industry, just manage to do
all the work of the High Court, it would be still
advisable to have a stronger Bench, partly because
a Judge can’t as safely be kept at high pressure of
work as a clerk or a laborer, for if he
yields even a little to the pressure, and slips into
carelessness, the results are liable to be serious :
partly because in the number of councillors
there is wisdom, and a three-judge Bench, in
which two can carry the day, is liable to become
a one-man Bench, with the strongest man, carrying
the weakest man with him, laying down the law.
But it is quite clear that three Judges cannot
carry through the present work—arbitration and
original jurisdiction cases have to await a
strengthening of the Bench ; and fairly clear that
even four Judges would not be sufficient in view of
the growing stress of work. The Bulletin believes
that in matters of State, as in matters of private
business, a scrupulous and scrutinising economy is
advisable. But there is no real economy in try-
ing to save a few pounds at the price of injuri-
ously affecting the most important work of the
Commonwealth. For the same reason the Legis-
lature should take the occasion of the necessary
amendment of the Judiciary Act to provide for
judicial pensions. A Judge’s work is too serious
to allow it to be ever clouded by senility, and the
inevitable result of leaving the judicial positions
without pensions will, in time, be senile Judges
clinging optimistically to the faith that they are
still earning their salaries as well as drawing
them.
• 4.
N.S.W. Local Government.
When the N.S.W. Shires Bill was before the
Legislature it was announced as a Local Govern-
ment Bill to provide for local works from focal
revenues. “Let the men who vote the money for
public works find it. Do away with the Roads-
and-Bridges member. Abolish the expensive
Works Department. If the country member
wants a bridge against somebody’s door, let his
constituents find the money.” Purity of politics
was to result from this Local Government, and the
cash saving was to be immense. The Government
in return for those blessings was to part with the
land-tax. So the Shire Councils were brought
into existence. They are doing nicely, and adver-
tising for clerks at wages of from 255. to £3 a
week. And this appears in the press :
Messrs. Briner and M‘Farlane, Ms.L.A., interviewed
the Minister for Works with reference to the need of con-
structing a bridge over the Coldstream River, a branch of
the Clarence River, near Ulmarra. The Minister said
that he had reduced the estimate for the work from £7500
to £3BOO. This sum would be placed on the Estimates.
If the work were carried out, it would he by the Govern-
ment, and not by the Shire Council.
Note : This sum will be placed on the Estimates.
The Government will pay for it, not the Shire
Council. N.S.W. thus has Local Government
plus, not minus, the Roads-and-Bridges member.
Was anything else to be expected from Car-
ruthers, anyhow ?
♦
Preferential Dumping.
In the Anti-Monopoly, Anti-Dumping Bill now
before the House of Representatives, it is pro-
vided that when imported goods are being
dumped in Australia to be sold at little or no
profit, in order to come into unfair competition
with Australian goods of the same class, and to
The History.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Our youth grows short and the time draws near
When a firm pen we must take,
To fill in the outlines, bold and clear,
Of the history we’ve to make
The task has never been faced before,
But the task’s not one to shirk) —
No history long of words and war,
But a history wide of work.
We’ll nurse the presents that Nature gave
With care in the arms of toil,
We’ve mother and friend and faithful slave
In one, in the smiling soil.
Our land is ever the best ally
And its force to the world will give
No tale that is wrought of men that die,
But a tale that men may live.
We’ve never harked to the tocsin’s note
Or the grim great drama played,
When the brother strives for the brother’s throat
At the breast of the barricade.
Work served instead of the rolling drum,
A wage for the victor’s spoil,
And we’ll gain our greatness in days to come
As we gained our rights—by toil.
We girded our loins but once to strike,
And then in the cause of shame;
But next we’ll strike on the side of right
When the spears of Asia flame.
No feud of a sordid squabbling clan
Is the fight that to-morrow knows,
And our flag will fly in the wide white van
When the ranks of J aphet close.
Our history lies not yet behind,
No pangs of the past are writ
On the yellowed scroll, or the warrant signed
That the flames of Hate be lit.
Though lands that jealousy parts and cleaves,
Our greatness only gauge
By a meagre volume of empty leaves
With a blot on the title page,
Our greatness is where the gold reefs are,
Where the foundry hammers swing ;
In the groaning dray, and the creaking spar,
Are our land’s awakening.
In the axe that gleams in the new-cut track,
In the comb that the shearer plies,
In the hearts that conquer the bush Out-Back,
Australia’s history lies.
VIO.
C.N.


disorganise or crush Australian industries and
throw* Australian workers out of employment,
then inquiry may be made by a Justice of the
Court, and if unfairness is proved, the
dumped goods may be prohibited, and an
injunction obtained to restrain their further
importation. Thus the wire nails that are
sold to compete at a lower cost than that at
which the iron and steel companies will supply
Australian factories with the raw material; the
salt that came out in the ship Bessfield to be sold
at a price that was less than even the ordinary
rates of freight; the machines whose wholesale
admission means the death of an Australian in-
dustry : all these are liable to be held up until a
Judge is satisfied that they are being honestly
sold by fair traders, whose object is to carry on
their business at a profit, and not to throttle
Australian factories in order to make Aus-
tralia an empty field for foreign exploitation.
To this measure the large, heavy Dugald Thom-
son moved an amendment, suggesting that
the penalties of the Bill should apply to the
goods of every country in the world except
Britain, but that “imported goods” should be
held “ not to include goods imported from, and
the product of, the United Kingdom.” Dugald
divided his speech into two parts, in the first of
which he said that no strangling, throttling com-
petition came to Australia from Britain; and
secondly, that Britain should be allowed to choke
our baby industries if she wanted to, “ because She
was Our Mother.” Attorney-General Isaacs
nailed Dugald down on this dilemma. If British
competition was conducted honestly and fairly,
then the Bill made no attack upon it ; if dis-
honestly and unfairly, then Isaacs saw little dif-
ference (so far as the baby industries were con-
cerned) between strangulation by a mother’s ten-
der hands and the callous fingers ot a stranger
from America, Germany or Japan. The baby
was just as dead in either case. But Dugald
still sobbed phrases of devotion to the Smother-
land, and declared that no man loyal to the
Empire could oppose his amendment. Yet, in
fact, every determination that Australia makes to
keep up a high standard of life and wages within
her shores tends to strengthen the Empire. The
Empire contains, in addition to some 300,000,000
black and brown subjects, who must inevitably
revolt some day against the yoke of a few
whites, nearly 00,000,000 of white people in
the British Isles, Canada, Australia, and South
Africa. Those in the British Isles (by far the
greater number) are becoming less and less fitted,
through over-crowding, under-feeding, and under-
paying, to tight for the Empire when her day of
trouble comes. “The colonies” have an oppor-
tunity, by maintaining the high standards they
have begun, of creating a big,_ virile, healthy
population that it will be difficult to attack.
Persons of the Dugald type resent any departure
from the wages and the living standards of
Britain, where 12,200,000 of the people tremble
on the verge of starvation. They demand, in
effect, that the highest level of the British race
shall be the lowest level that it drops to in the
factories of England. It is, examined carefully,
a bitterly unpatriotic and anti-imperial demand.
“ Up Against the Labor Party.”
The sin of successive "V ictorian Governments
in permitting Wren to flout the Law with
his Collingwood Tote was made glaringly ap-
parent at Port Melbourne last week, when
Judkins, the anti-gambling crusader, attempted
to address an unsympathetic crowd of working
men. Circumstances have enabled the Judkins
party of Rechabites and snufflebusters to take up
a position which should have been filled by bigger
and broader-minded citizens, but, in the absence
of more weighty champions, Judkins and co. de-
serve consideration. The fact that they don’t get
it is a trifling matter compared with the fact that
Government inaction has permitted the “cause’
of Judkins to take the form of a political party
question. A deplorable state of things is revealed
in the scornful remarks hurled at Judkins by his
thoughtless antagonists. “You are up against
the Labor party this time, old boy,” shouted one of
the opposition at the Port Melbourne meeting, and
the other interrupters expressed the same
sentiment. To denounce the gambling evil as a
canker which, owing to the lawless enterprise of
AVren, is eating into the heart of the working
classes in Melbourne is to be “ up against
the Labor party.” Struggling workers talk
nowadays of one gambling law for the rich and
another for the poor, as they never talked in the
time when the betting law was more strictly
enforced, and Wren had not arrived at omni-
potence. In short, Wren is being misrepresented
as a brave upholder of the working man’s right
to lose his money at a shilling tote or a shilling
betting club in the same recognised way as
the non-laboring man loses his money under
more “ classy ” conditions. And this undoubted
new danger to the community is merely the
result of the Government’s neglect to nip Wren
in the bud. Anti-gambling laws in all countries
must ever be in the nature of class legislation, un-
just according to logic, but quite justifiable by
the rules of expediency. The men who prey
upon the gambling instinct of needy toiling fools
are a much greater evil thau such as prey upon
the same instinct in rich fools. No reasoning
person can deny that a bricklayer chronically im-
poverished by Wren’s tote, or any kindred faci-
lity for “doing in” his wages, is a more pitiable
spectacle than the plunging heir to a rich estate
who reduces himself by gambling to the status of
a “ broken-down ” person, living on the last rem-
nant of his fortune, or on a comfortable pittance
granted by his wealthy relatives. It’s a poor
look-out for the Victorian Labor party if it is to
commit itself to a policy of free gambling facilities
for the poor.
«
The “Good Man” Candidate.
To those old ladies, of both sexes, who are pre-
paring to raise for the next Federal elections a
“Good Man” cry The Bulletin would like to
give a note of friendly warning. It is not a re-*
petition of the old familiar argument that the
good man is not necessarily the good politician ;
that a thorough training in the Seven Deadly Dull
Virtues argues no skill in economics, and none of
that strength of will and mind necessary to drive
reforms through Parliament ; that experience
shows that the man who is willing to be labelled
“ Good” is very often, like the woman who boasts
of her virtue, a sepulchre with a lie on the
tombstone, and something unpleasant and
obscene beneath. (When Walter Besant wrote
his story entitled “Such a Good Man,” lie
drove those facts home in a way that caused
the whole tribe of Good Men to hate his
very name.) All this has been argued before,
and not understood by the old ladies, of either
sex. It might be argued, again and again,
with just as little effect. The fault is not with
the argument. It is with the old ladies’ mental
spectacles, which are adjusted only for the nar-
rowest of vision. “I can give my friend the
reasons,” thundered Gladstone, on one of the
few occasions when lie eundescended to say what
he meant in a sentence under two columns in
length, “but only the Almighty can give him the
comprehension to understand them.” On the mam
issue of the Good Man cry the old ladies, of both
sexes, must be left to the Almighty, but
there is a side issue which they may be able
to understand. Whilst it is broadly true that
the “goodness” of a man—taking goodness in the
sense as understood by old ladies who form
Societies for the Prevention of Premature Bunal
and for the Discouragement of Early Marriages
among the Heathen Poor—has nothing to do with
his chances of political usefulness, it is also true
that some forms of wickedness argue strongly that
a candidate is unfitted for public life, if a man
is dishonest in his private affairs ; if he shows a
cruel and brutal disposition in his family lite ; 1
he makes of his drunkenness or his salaciousness
a matter of pride and boast—it seems probable
that in public life he will be more apt to peculate,
more likely to be a bad ruler generally ; and, any-
how, even if his public acts were unobjectionable,
there is a reasonable sentimental bias against, say
the Hon. the Premier, being taken out of the gutter
drunk because he hasn’t enough decency to get
drunk in private. But the effect of a Hooa
Man ” cry is just to put men of that sort into
public life. When a catmittee of old ladies of
both sexes begins to poke a prying nose into the
private lives of candidates, and take account ot
the sins which are not in any way public pro-
perty, the sense of disgust which fills the public
mind gives a chance to the other sort of candi-
date, who flaunts his badness as an ontiamme,
and is not a “Good Man,” or an ordinary man,
but a boastfully bad man. There have entered
Australian public life at different times several
of this type, and on the whole they have
hardly adorned politics. Even when they have
done nothing publicly scandalous to match their
private objectionableness, they have usually
assisted to waste much time by posturing m
the lurid limelight as villains, ha-ha, of the
deepest dye, and have covered many irrelevant
pages of Hansakd with discussion on their
drinks, their debaucheries and their devilment
generally. To the “Good Man” cry Australia
owes their presence. They represent the natural
swing back of the pendulum. The electors, dis-
gusted at being asked to apply the gimlet-hole
test to Plunk in the interests of Goofool, are
moved to rush to the support of Blade, who
wears his wickedness as an aureole, and whose
life couldn’t get sufficient investigation from a
dozen shipwright’s augers, let alone a gimlet, lo
the old ladies, of both sexes, who worry about
“Good” candidates then, The Bulletin begs to
suggest, “drop it.” The effort to keep out a
healthy Bread, Beef and Beer man in the
interests of a Bun and Cold Tea candidate only
helps the cause of the Chicago Sausage type ot
anthropoid animal.
♦
Patents.
“ Wimmera ” on patents :
Six thousand inventors have applied for patents since
the Common wealth office opened about two years ago.
How many of these will be heard of m a few years time .
And, in spite of fair promises, the Commonwealth office
is not doing all it might to help the inventor. Under'the
Australian Patent Act a search must be made to see it
the invention is new. For a time this was not done, the
excuse being that “ N.S. Wales was holding on to its
State records,” although that needn t have prevented the
office from making search in the excellently classified
and indexed records of the English which are
kept in the Melbourne office. It is for that work that
the high fee of £8 is paid, and if the office, has not a
sufficient staff then it is time it had. Otherwise the in-
ventor can be exploited by all kinds of agents who will
procure him a patent regardless of whether it has any value
or not. In the United States, Germany, Austria and
even in old-fashioned Britain, a search is now made in
order to give the inventor warning if his invention is no
good and thus prevent him from spending his siller on a
dream that he is an Edison. If anyone will examine the
British Illustrated Official Journal issued by the ratent
Office, and will note the number of worthless ideas which
are “protected” by patent, he will see the need for an
examination of this kind. You can t rely upon private
enterprise” to do it. “ Private enterprise vvan , ts ., th .®
job of taking out a patent in foreign countries, and it is
only too ready to flatter the natural conceit of the mex-
stoutly held out against the preliminary ex-
amination for a long time. Britain was individua'ist. It
said : “ Let the inventor take out his patent. Even if it
is invalid it is his own risk. It won’t hurt Us (i.e.,
officialdom). But when it was seen that patents fie-
uuentlv failed when tested in the law courts, and when
the better-informed English inventors began the practice
of taking out a German patent first in order to see if the
idea were new, and if that part which was new
were any use, people began to say things. Now a
search is made, and both the inventor and the public
benefit * the inventor, for the reasons already stated,
and the public, by the elimination of a large number of
confidence-trick patents, which had no validity, and weie
not worth the paper they were written on, except for the
illegitimate purpose of extorting backsheesh out of manu-
facturers who feared to contest the matter in a court of
law Under the new system the novel elements in a
patent must be set forth in a simple manner, and if the
whole idea is evidently old, the office either lefuses to
grant the patent or insists that it shall be endorsed with
the number of the previous patent. That is all right as fai
as it a-oes. Of course, it does not guarantee validity abso-
lutely for a search is only made of the previous British
patents. But even so much is good. In Germany they
search English, German, Austrian, American and French
patents. Sometimes they search periodicalsand text books.
In America a search is made in the American and English
records, and the patent officer can go outside them if he
deems it advisable. The Australian Patent Office should
at least search the Australian and British patents, as
publication in either of those would certainly invalidate
the patent, and it is not desirable that the inventor
should get a worthless document. The office should be
the guardian of the inventor and the public alike. If
invention is worth encouraging at all, let us give the
inventor full information, and save him from loss and
disappointed vanity later on. Of course, the inventor of
the infatuated type will still exist, hut sane men at least
will be saved from their ignorance of the patent laws, and
will no longer spend large sums in pushing valueless
patents in foreign countries.
—
Canada.
“ Austra ” writes from London :
The most prominent thing here in the North of
England (after beer and betting) is Canada. Returned to
this part the other day, and on going to purchase my
daily packet of rags was asked, “ Would you like one of
these’” It was anillustrated Canadian pamphlet. Iti
a public bar I found a string of pipe-lights—it was a
shipping co.’s sailing list—steamers for Canada. W ent
to a sale at a farm ; the auctioneer’s office-boy was dealing
out Canadian literature. At each railway station aie
maps and pictures of Canada. In each town of any size
at all are agents who regularly receive and are responsible
for the distribution of posters, pamphlets, facts, lies, etc.
These men are usually in the agency business, with other
lines, and in other cases the hill-posting cos. act. By
this means the Canadian boom is worked cheaply and
effectively. Probably there are travelling inspectors to
see that all do their work properly. But it is the half-
neii n v papers that really do most for Canada. That they
are inspired is very obvious. Advertisements appear,
tellin ur each reader that he is the particular person
required, and that there is just room to squeeze
on to the next boat, while the news columns
daily have something to say. Every little local preacher,
school teacher, or loafer, has his projected departure for
Canada chronicled. Each day’s sailings or arrivals are
wired. Allusions to Canada are made in the persona.l,
local, financial, and sporting columns. Even a few words
against the country are allowed to appear ; this gives an
opening for half-a-dozen letters next day, all of which
denounce the dissatisfied one as a waster and a squib.
So unanimous a;c the letters that they appear to he in-
spired by one person. Even sketches and column-length
tales extolling life in Canada are published, whether as
such or at advertising rates writer knows not, but he has
suspicions. A weekly paper, Canada, published in Lon-
don, beautifullv illustrated, finely got up, and nearly the
size of The Bulletin, does not seem to be on sale any-
where ; it is quietly and regularly dropped into public
reading rooms, hotel smoke rooms, and railway station
waiting apartments. The one thing all this information
does not tell you is that after you get 160 acres, more or
less free, what more land you want has to be got through
land or railway companies. That information would not
assist the object in view, as the people of this country
know even better than Australians what monopoly of
land by railway companies or private individuals
means, and would not care to go from it to more of it.
At times it is difficult to get pamphlets from the agents,
they are rushed out to such an extent; while apparently
the only places in the United Kingdom where similar
literature of the Australian States can be got are the
Agents-Generals’ offices in London. They are almost
packed with what ought to be in the public reading
rooms, etc. ; so much so that the writer has had to fairly
burrow his way in to get a glimpse of Australian papers.
♦
The European mail contract, which the Deakin
Government has arranged, represents an excellent
bargain. The Commonwealth obtains a much
improved service as regards speed, regularity, and
cargo-space, at a sum practically equal to that
paid now ; and the new boats will fly the Com-
monwealth flag, and will be in most respects Aus-
tralian. Apart from all other considerations, the
fact of a great fleet of first-class steamers travelling
the high seas as “ the Australian line” will be of
notable value as an advertisement in Europe of
the potentialities of this continent. The new
agreement, too, brings nearer the possibility of
Australian naval defence. Presumably it will be
possible to arrange that the Australian mail
line will train Australian seamen as a naval re-
serve, and will provide some ships convertible
into cruisers in the case of war.
Senator Staniforth Smith, at the Prime Minis-
ter’s request, has furnished a very ample and
valuable report on his trip to the Malay States
and Java. It is of vital interest to Australians
from different standpoints, bearing in mind also
Germany’s resolve to possess the Dutch colonies.
Senator Smith gives a comprehensive survey of
the plantation industries suitable for New Guinea.
The Malay Peninsula has 880,900 population, of
whom 400,000 are Chinese. Tin mining employs
half of them. The South African system of
getting Chinese labor was entirely borrowed
from the Malayan. Java is only one-four-
teenth of the Dutch possessions in these waters,
but its annual revenue is £7,790,000, out of
£10,196,006 for all Netherlands India, on the
whole of which there is usually an annual
deficit; but Java yields a considerable surplus.
One thing that rouses the Germans is the,
enormous plunder that Java yields to officials.
The Governor-General gets £ll,OOO a year; Vice-
President, £3000; Lieut.-General, £2680; Vice-
Admiral, £2500; four councillors, each £2400;
secretary, £2OOO ; six directors, each £2OOO. The
big pay goes down to a host of others, and it is
palpable that the place could be worked for a
fraction of the money. Two heads of the
Mahomedan faith draw from the State respectively
the huge sums of £73,750 and £39,387 per year.
A hint for land reformers is that all the land in
Netherlands India, except a small area of Java,
is owned by the State.
+
Sugar growing, as practised in Queensland, is
still a most wasteful business ; if other Australian
industries threw as much on to the rubbish-tip,
and were bled as much by middlemen, very few of
them would pull through without crying out for a
cheap Kanaka. Last year, as far as the statistics
go—and they don’t go all the way—there were
5,904,518 gallons of molasses available; that is,
just upon 100,000,0001 b. Of that total about
600.000 gallons were used to feed stock ; a very
little of it was turned in as manure ; of the rest,
3,000,000 gallons, in addition to all that was not
recorded, went to absolute waste. Now, molasses,
especially when mixed with ground bagass
(another sugar-mill by-product), makes fine stock
fodder; yet this prodigious waste occurred in a
country whose stock dies by the million for want
of stored fodder. The answer always thrown in,
when this and similar waste is mentioned, is that
the thing won’t pay ; and it looks as though, so
long as the industry had T. T ANNA to lean upon,
it never would be made to pay. _ It is simply one
more instance of cheap labor being deadly to any
brains that happen to be in its neighborhood.
Some polite correspondence has been passing
between the Westralian Auditor-General and
the Bailway Commissioner of the great sandy
State. The Audit Department asked for par-
ticulars of certain items, which particulars the
Commissioner declined to supply. Whereupon
the A.-G. suggested that if the required infor-
mation were not promptly forthcoming the items
would be disallowed. Then the Railway Cominis-
sioner got riled, and used strong language. The
A.-G. was formerly accountant in the Railway
Department, and knows exactly what goes on
there. The Commissioner squirmed at the thought
of being compelled to knuckle down to a man who
had only recently been one of his subordinates.
So he rose and vigorously cursed the A.-G. and
all his works, winding up a letter to the head of
the Government in these terms
My opinion of the whole trouble is that my staff are
being unduly harassed and interfered with, solely because
in my righteous indignation I told Mr. Toppin a few
straight truths, and if he had carried on while with me
as he has done since, I should have sacked him—and he
knows it.
Nothing daunted, the A.-G. carried out his threat
and disallowed the items which embroiled the
Commissioner with the Treasury Department,
and things are becoming lively all round. The
Commissioner, commonly known as Bully
George, has now sent in the following ultimatum
to the head of the Treasury Department:—
This harassing action of the Auditor-General will have
to end. I have no time, nor have my officers, to bother
about such tomfoolery.
There now !
Proceedings in the Federal and State Parlia-
ments show that in proportion to the diminution
of alcoholic business in the refreshment-rooms the
catering business grows less remunerative. Most
Australian Parliaments report regular deficits on
the refreshment-room, and the tendency all round
is financially down-hill. This condition of
things provides a fair opportunity for testing
the sincerity of many solid-looking Tories.
A motion to abolish the Parliamentary refresh-
ment rooms, and let members dine at the neigh-
boring hotels or boarding-houses, should elicit the
warm approval of men who talk loudly about the
beauty and loveliness of private enterprise. The
hotelkeeper, boarding-house-keeper and coffee-
stall-holder represent private enterprise, and
should be supported by Toryism on a cash basis —
its own cash and its own basis. If this motion
were carried, provision could be made for
members who took in their meals on their
persons; an apartment could be set apart as
an eating room for the men who carried a
bundle of sandwiches wrapped in newspaper
and a soda-water bottle of _ cold tea. 1 hen
those members who laugh derisively when mention
is made of serving free meals to hungry school
children could also laugh at the idea of supplying
semi-free meals to members of Parliament men
who now eat twice as much as they pay for and
make the country liquidate the balance. It s a bit
of Socialism to" which The Bulletin doesn t
object; the poorly-paid politician deserves these
little perks. But it’s also a kind of Socialism
that deserves the bitter hostility of Anti-Sosh.
—♦
A case illustrating the maze that has to be
travelled through when dealing with the N. S.W.
Land laws has been decided by the Land Appeal
Court. A public reserve in the Braidwood dis-
trict became available for selection, and in the
rush for the land three applications were lodged
simultaneously for the same block. The Land
Board tossed up for it—that is, sent the appli-
cants to the ballot. The unsuccessful gamblers
went to the Land Appeal Court, which argued this
way : Under Act 1884, section 27, the Land
Board was right in sending them to the ballot.
But section 27 of the 1884 Act was repealed by
section 11 of the 1889 Act. This section was then
set aside by section 6of the 1899 Act. But the
case could not be settled by section 6, 1899, be-
cause section 20 of the 1903 Act repealed it.
Further, section 5 of the 1905 Act settled the
hash of section 20, 1903, and the Court would
have decided the matter on section 5, 1905, but
for the fact that the section had apparently by
accident forgotten to allow for such a case as the
Braidwood one. The Court nearly lost itself
by this time, but it managed to decide that the
local Land Board was wrong to settle the thing
by tossing up, though it did not say what should
have been done instead of the toss-up.
+
If a certain undesirable alien named Ll Wan
Quai is finding the money himself to tight his
way into the Commonwealth —which he probably
isn’t—he will have made a large hole in his
savings by the time lie’s finished. Li originally
reached Victoria in the Changsha in October,
’O4. When the crew was lined up prior to de-
parture Li was missing, and lie remained so for
12 months, when the police laid bands on him.
P:M. Panton sentenced him to 14 days and de-
portation, On appeal, Judge Eagleson quashed
this conviction, which was for entering the Com-
monwealth as a prohibited immigrant. In
January, ’0(1, the State happened on Li once
more and charged him with “ being a prohibited
immigrant found within the Commonwealth.
Panton once more convicted Li, and ordered him
to be gaoled for seven days, and then deported.
Another appeal, to Judge Molesworth, resulted
in the conviction being sustained. Then Li—and
his backers —went to the High Court, and last
week that tribunal decided that Panton and
Molesworth were right, and that Li should be
sent back to the Yellow land as quickly as might
be. These things total up two trials and three
appeals, with expensive lawyers all the way
through ; so evidently a Chow sailor and market-
gaidener gets higher wages—anu more prompt
payment—than, say, the white mariners of the
Melville Island.
♦
Some of the wholesale houses in Sydney have been
prosecuted for selling “ egg-powders, ” which are
advertised as a “reliable substitute for eggs.
The defence put up was that the purchasing
public is perfectly aware that it is not buying
either powdered egg, or anything in the nature of
an egg. The magistrate before whom the cases
were heard convicted the defendants, but punish-
ment is deferred pending some sort of settlement
with what is vaguely referred to as the “autho-
rities.” The defence seems a pretty large and
cheerful assumption. How can anyone say that
all “the purchasing public,” which is a very large
section of the community, knows that the term
“egg-powder” has no relation, however remote,
to eggs’ Wasn’t the name carefully devised to
prevent the public knowing that ? And if it had
but known that the only resemblance to egg lay
in the coloring—which seems to be the case—vvould
it have spent its money on egg-powders? It
hardly seems likely.
+
“P.”: If there is in Australia a man for whom
the muddy tear of pity should be allowed to drop,
that man is Cook, deputy-leader of the Opposition
in the Reps. He is a galley slave and a working
bullock. The sharp, fierce, querulous little weasel
was yoked by G. Reid in the Opposition team
when Federal politics began, and tugged as hard
as the thickest and fattest animal of them all.
Reid at last dragged his cart out of the mud to a
greasy, uncertain Prime-Ministership. He took
with him the lamentable Pumpkin Smith and the
heavy-witted Dugald Thomson, but he left
Joseph out. The party slid back into the mire
again, and Reid, who had long since revolted
against working his brain to pieces without re-
ward, left all the “bullocking” work to Joseph.
During the whole of last session, and for as much
of this session as has already passed, the toil of
obstruction, and the ear-piercing scream of
opposition have been kept going by this
hard-worked speck of flesh and vinegar.
Nominally, Joseph is the Opposition’s deputy-
leader ; actually, he is its scullion and man
of all work. “I am under no obligation to
the importers' ; I have never received any benefit
from them,” Joseph often declares. That is pro-
bably true. The calico-man is just as ready to
sweat his political servants as to sweat his clerks
and seamstresses. And Joseph is breaking down
under the task of doing the perspiring and
straining for a lethargic and foolish Opposition.
There has been received in Australia from 0. C.
Beale, of Sydney, a copy of a report furnished by
him to Herbert Gladstone, British Home
Secretary, regarding the effects of proprietary
medicines and remedies with secret formulie.
How murderous some of these medicines are, is
shown by Mr. Beale’s quotations from F. .T.
Smith, M.D., pathologist for 15 years to the
London Hospital, and editor of “Taylor’s
Medical Jurisprudence.” Says Smith (con-
densed) :
To my certain knowledge there is debasement as
can only be called debauchery, especially among women,
resulting from the use of poisonous drugs sold under
secret formula;.
Widespread and lasting injury is done to infants and
young children by the indiscriminate use of narcotics
(manysold as “soothing-powders”). More than injury,
death is inflicted, but is invariably ascribed to some other
cause. For nurses or mothers to administer these drugs
is a wicked practice.
So-called “ headache powders,” etc., are dangerous to
the heart, and cause many fatal accidents. They should
never be administered except under strict medical super-
vision.
I am quite convinced that the amount of suffering and
the number of deaths are grossly out of proportion to
the publicly recorded cases. . . I should be pretty certain
that not above one per cent, of the mischief is recorded
or even suspected by the average layman..


SUM!
GallaKer!/ 1
G
o
D
H
GATE
<7
BEFORE THE
WEDDING.
Heb : “ And you
will give up
smoking horrid
tobacco ? ”
Him : “ Yes, dar-
ling, I’ll stick
to Gallaher’s
Gold Plate.”
ARTISTS, Photographers. &c., are
invited to submit DESIGNS OR
SUITABLE FOR REPRODUC-
TION AS POST CARDS to
HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
F.W. gives a sailoring experience :
The reason why there are so many foreigners on British
,'F* the exceedingly tow rate of wage, the beastly
f u , provisions, the incompetence of the cooks, and
nfi-on ll i f Treatment in foreign ports, where the captain
° n U' allows the crew from 2s. 6d. to ss. a week for
f n £iej and this t 0 men "’h° may have from £l2
to £l5 due to them.
myself was starved out of British ships. I served my
pprenticeship in a vessel where I have seen the captain,
mate and second-mate bringing their weekly allowance to
tne table separately each meal; if any of them ran out of
Ducter, sugar, or any other item before the week was up,
tney had to go without. Can anyone wonder why they
pieter to chance a living on shore? What respectable
man will agree to let his son go to sea when the wages
ottered are £2 10s. for sail and £3 10s. for steam ?
■ , om f two months ago I was walking along the south
side oi the Yarra, and, when passing a German sailing
' essel, I was very much surprised at being accosted by a
man who was mate in a vessel 1 was apprenticed in. He
told me he had lost his ticket—why, it doesn’t matter—
and that he was there—an A.B. on this German. I ques-
tioned him as to why he sailed in a German ship, and was
t- * leai Tiim say he had fair wages, better
ueatment, better and cleaner accommodation, and excel-
I?? d - Isn’t it about time J. Bull woke up and did
something in this way too? If Australian ships, with
De a better wages, and fair hours, can induce
good Britishers arid Australians to stav and behave them-
selves, the same will apply to British ships.
♦
‘‘ Tusi Ata ” writes :
Judging by the song of exultation that is struck up
when Japan orders a few bales of wool or half-a-dozen
raw hides, and the corresponding wail of concern when it
is rumored that Monkeyland is displeased with us, one
would imagine that the welfare of Australia depended
solely on the good graces of Mr. Yosiiiwara. Quite apart
iron, the fact that it is the manufactured article that
should be exported, all the profit Australia can ever hope
to make from trade relations with Japan is very harmless.
” a P will only buy those goods which he cannot do
without, viz., certain primary products, and he will buy
them, like everyone else, in the cheapest market.
But if Australia wants a market for some of its dairy-
ing and agricultural products, why not capture the one at
its own back door—the Malay Archipelago, with its
teeming millions of population (Java alone has over
30,000,000 inhabitants)? A considerable sum of the
£10,000,000 that is spent yearly on imports by that
colony, is accounted for by provisions, such as flour,
butter, tinned fruits, and milk, meats, and biscuits,
most of which, if a small quantity of butter exported by
a Melbourne firm is excepted, are supplied by America.
It is true that the Chinese, who are the principal retailers
in the Archipelago, as well as the Dutch themselves, are
very conservative, but when once the barrier of prejudice
is broken through, and it has been shown that the Aus-
tralian article can hold its own in open competition, a
valuable Customer will be found in the Dutch East
Indies. Much the same remark applies to manufac-
tured goods, especially of iron and leather, which
Australia should be making. Give Australia a
healthy Protective tariff, and it will soon be able
to supply not only its own requirements, but also
to get its share of the Indian island and mainland com-
merce. The field is large enough, and there is no need to
whine for a twopenny-ha’penny trade with a race which
will never be anything but a competitor for Australia’s
prospective Asiatic customers. If Australia must export,
then the Straits Settlements, Siam, Burmah, French
Indo-China, etc., should receive first consideration.
“ T.F.M.” from Melbourne :
I am making no complaints about the velocity of Tait’s
trains, for I am still haunted by visions of the risks I ran
when Private Enterprise—the Hobson’s Bay Co., to wit-
used to transport me to and from my mansion in the
suburbs. No doubt Tait is slow, but Private Enterprise
was slower and dearer—and not nearly so sure. Big divi-
dends were the chief concern of Private Enterprise.
Nothing was thought of the convenience, or even the
lives and limbs, of the passengers ; the permanent way
looked after itself mostly; the “carriages” were ugly,
dirty and decrepit; while the engines suffered terribly
from asthma, seuile decay, and numerous other ailments.
When Private Enterprise saw that the Government would
be compelled to buy the H.B. lines in order to connect
the Gippsland railway with Melbourne, all the defi-
ciencies of the plant were carefully varnished over, and
the bargain was completed, enormously to the advantage
of the co. Then the Jolimont catastrophe occurred —
just when Private Enterprise was reckoning up the pro-
fits it had made out of its successful knavery—and the
Government realised to the full how it had been rooked.
That accident, which killed several people and maimed
others, was distinctly traceable to the worn-out wheels of
a Hobson’s Bay Co.’s vehicle, and a careful inspection
showed that the whole of the rolling stock, which
Private Enterprise had declared to be in excellent condi-
tion, was so rotten as to be only fit for the scrap-heap.
An expenditure of half-a-million sterling had to be
incurred to place the lines in the condition they ivere
alleged to be in when handed over to the State at what
Private Enterprise affected to consider an extremely
moderate price. In addition to that, it cost fully £50,000,
in compensation, etc., in connection with the Jolimont
affair. No, l am not complaining about Tait myself.
Things may be badly arranged under his regime, but
“Disgusted Traveller,” “Season Ticket Holder,” and
others who are wailing about slow trains should try and
imagine how things were in Private Enterprise days.
:—
The parable of Fitz J. (Westralia): —
Paid a neighbor of mine a visit last week. After the
usual neighborly “ Hovvdedo,” &c. :
“Expect my boy Jim home next week.”
“Oh?”
“ Yes ? Y’know he’s a bit of a‘ mechanic is Jim, an’ e’s
been over the other side on the look-out fora billet.”
“ So I heard.”
“Thing is pretty bad over there, I b’leeve. Nothin’
seems to be doin’ at all, so he’s off home.”
“That’s bad.”
“Yes, he’s in Adelaide now, lookin’ round. Y’ve ’eard
of this ’ere George Eeid, I s’pose. He’s Preemyer over
there, I think. Jim was telling me *ow he went to ’ear
’im at the Theatre or soniewheres. He’d be the sort of
cove to vote for, I reckon. Freetrader, ain’t he ? ”
“ Something like that ” I said.
“ That oughter be alright, I reckon—Freetrade for a
free country. Jim was saying as ’oiv this ’ere Esin was
telling them about Freetrade being the best thing for
Australyer.”
The old man was putting up a fence—dog-proof it was.
I picked up a hammer ; the brand was “Cheney, U.S.A.”
Then a pair of pliers, “made in Germanv.” Ditto a pair
of wire snips. The wire-netting had an-English brand,
likewise the plain wire. A brace and bin bore Mathkson’s
brand. A crowbar came from Sheffield ; an axe (which
had more than one gap in the blade) was “Kelly,
U.S.A.” A grubbing axe was plainlv branded “Iron
City,” presumably U.S. A. The shovel'might have come
from Palestine for aught I know. It was called “ Samson
No. 2.” The only item that had any Australian hand-
work attached to it was a wire-plug (actually one solid
iron wire-plug), for which the local smithy had charged a
bob. No wonder Jim, who was a bit of a mechanic, couldn’t
get a job. Oh yes, Freetrade is the thing for Australia
all right!
From the Commercial Intelligence Bureau,
London (an organisation devoted to the extension
of Imperial trade and commerce): —
\V e have read with much interest your article advo-
cating a strong naval policy for Australia, and in refer-
ence to .your view that Australian trade should be carried
on by Australia and Australian-manned ships, we beg to
point out to your readers how the achievement of that
laudable ambition is menaced by foreign enterprise, prin-
cipally German. The main line routes from Germany to
the United States, South America, the Far East and Aus-
tralia are naturally the backbone of the mercantile marine
of that power, but ramifications have been, or are being
proceeded with in many other directions by the institu-
tion of German sailings between one set of foreign ports
and another. If Australians do not take your hint and
provide themselves with a well-equipped mercantile
marine, large enough to cope with the expanding com-
merce of their country', they will soon see much valuable
shipping trade appropriated by foreigners, German ships
not only trading between Australian ports, but acting as
the chief carriers of Australian produce to Europe, thanks
to the advantage they will derive from subsidiary or local
lines. Is Australia content to allow much of her valuable
shipping trade to be captured by the Germans? That is
the danger with which she is menaced.
“U.”: That “Labor church” suggestion which
some Victorian Laborites have put forth was
bound to come. For years past various Labor
leagues have had a sprinkling of members (mostly
imported) who are reproductions in many ways
of the objectionable kind of churchgoer—the man
who always complains when anything practical is
done, and who, when asked what he would sub-
stitute, spouts mistily concerning “the deepening
of the spiritual life,” just as the “advanced”
Laborite talks about vaguely-pretty things with
the same meaning. The Socialist Stiggins (im-
ported) is always prominent and voluble. Any-
one whom he suspects of being a Laborite is liable
at any moment to be attacked with some such
stereotyped mass of words as:
“Well, brother, you, I take it,
are with us, like all good com-
rades, in the great cause of
endeavoring to bring
about the economic free-
dom of the workers a
by the institution
of a co-operative
commonwealth ? ”
“Brother” and
“comrade ” are
becoming sick- i
eningly fre- /
quent terms
of address
from persons
who believe
in “rend-
ing the
thral 1,”
“ bursting
the prison,”
“breaking
the chains,”
and so on.
Some of these
men are esti-
mable enough
in their own
way, but one V
does not want '
to be “ broth-
ered ” by them
(or by anyone
else) about five
times per minute.
Another church
parallel is the unrea-
soiling distrust of those
who “don’t go to our
church,”, as it were—men
who are undoubtedly in
sympathy with the Labor
movement, yet are not “pro-
fessin’ Christians ” or professed
Laborites to the extent of “sit-
ting under” the Rev. Tom
Mann, or some would-be auto-
crat of the P.L.C. Most of the
persons who are doing their best
to spread narrow sentiments in
Labor circles come from a country that is
decades behind this land in real political
advancement, and necessarily has largely different
ideals. Yet the blatant Reformers force on Aus-
tralia their ready-mixed political remedies almost
before they have had a look at the patient. Un-
fortunately, they find a certain limited number of
Australians to take notice of them.
“0.K.” : Bulletin par. (5/7/’O6) re the
shocking liberality with which Bent proposes-to
treat the Vic. beer industry appears to be based
on the assumption, unhappily erroneous, that the
Vic. Licensing Act doesn’t expressly provide for
compensation to the owners of de-licensed pre-
mises. The Act of 1885, slightly amended
and consolidated in 1890, was carefully de-
signed for the protection of the proputty-
owner, and provides for compensation. All
the liauor legislation in Victoria has been
directed by capitalists for capitalists, and al-
though Bent proposes (if rumor speaks truth) to
give Mr. Publichouse 10 years’ notice of the ter-
mination of compensation rights, the blessed
Legislative Council, where the majesty of Beer is
strongly represented, may demand an extension
of the notice to 100 years.
DOLORES, who sings in Sydney
next month.
Photo, by Johnstone, O’Shannessy
& Co., Melbourne.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOE COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal. “ With Flying Colors."
Her Majesty’s “The Dictator.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall Fisk Jubilee Singers
Prince Alfred Park.. Bostock and Wombwell’s Circus.
Haymarket Hippo- 1 „ , . „ .. ~
drome f Bohemian Dramatic Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Talk of the Town.”
Her Majesty's ” The Squaw Man.”
Theatre Royal “ Dangerous Women.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
-V
“With Flying Colors,” revived at Sydney
Royal by Bland Holt last Saturday, puts a good,
sensational story—with no very marked improba-
bilities—in an excellent setting; adorns it further
with clever and mostly earnest acting; and the
result is good. That part of the public mind that
is touched by the yellow back of a Miss Braddon
creation, or the Sherlock Holmes detective
yarn, will find in “ Flying Colors ” ex-
actly the sort of pabulum it likes. The
hero’s course of true love is interrupted
by the villain (a very villainous villain with homi-
cide on his conscience), who has him accused of
cheating at cards in a naval officers’ mess. The
hero of course is degraded, and, equally of course,
the heroine doesn’t marry the villain. But in
the course of time, through many sensational inci-
dents, the story comes to the triumph of virtue and
true love and a wedding, with a hint of a cradle in
the background. It’s a robust, happy, healthy
story, such as Bland Holt delights to tell in four
acts and nine handsome stage pictures. No room,
however, is left for comment. The usual people
are good in their usually charming and blundering
way, and the usual people are wicked, and Bland
Holt and Mrs. Holt are, as usual, comical
humorists who relieve the tension of the story
with a laugh.
The Royal Sydney Operatic
Co. eked out its courage in staging
“Carmen” at the Criterion by
devoting the proceeds to the
. Royal Alexandra Hospital for
Sick Children. A lot can be
suffered for the sake of
v sick children. But it’s
only fair to say that
the over - vaulting
ambition which led
to the production
jk of a most exact-
ing work didn’t
result in a sur-
feit of suffei’-
ing to the au-
dience. There
were some
patches ot
pleasure.
Miss Edie Bri-
ton, as Car-
men, acted
with a great
deal of grace
and piquancy:
sometimes she
/ sang out of
I tune, but she
I was always a
live figure, and
saved the perform-
J ance from failure.
' In fact a much
worse Carmen was
expected, and Miss
/ Briton, with her viva-
city and confidence, was
/ a welcome surprise. An-
other bright patch was
provided by W. 13. Beattie
as the Toreador; he both
sang and acted well. George
Engisch, as Don Jose, showed that
he had a pleasing tenor voice of
the Kenningharn class, but he
slouched his acting sadly. The
choruses were, as a rule, good,
and the orchestra deserves some
praise. Later on the R.S. Oper-
atic Co. will stage other operas.
Cavelleria Rusticana” and “La Giaconda” are
promised ; and with the experience it has gained
by this “ Carmen” production the co. should
make a creditable show.
itf * $ *
Gerard Kean, the tenor about whose
discovery ” there has been so much beating of
drums, will be all the better for the cold, healthy
criticism which it is to be hoped he will get in
Sydney. So far lie lias only appeared in places
where either criticism for press purposes is un-
known or where the critic,' in the face of the
vigorous booming of the “star,” hasn’t had confi-
dence enough in his own judgment to stand out of
the chorus. At Brisbane the public did not take
the singer half as seriously as he took himself.
At his last concert—the Centennial Barn was
thronged—Kean sang tenor in the first part, and,
so the friendly papers said afterwards, soprano in
the second part of the programme. Possibly they
were natural notes he sang ; but they sounded
falsetto. Yet it is hard to believe that a teacher
who has any hope of a singer’s future would allow
him to sing one single note out of his register.
In any case, many of Kean’s notes are apparently
so forced as to be unpleasant; and the Brisbane
audience audibly punctuated some of these good-
bye songs with guffaws. Kean’s first Sydney
concert will be at the Town Hall on the 25th.
-*• * it- *
The newest eccentricity at Sydney Tivoli
is “ Vasco,” who ties himself into knots and plays
on divers instruments before he unwinds himself,
the most satisfactory of his items is a flute solo,
played while the soloist squirms on his back and
jangles bullock bells with his toes. He blows into
brass instruments also; and that needs forgive-
ness. Iwo plump people, one of whom is Bertie
hang on to nothing in particular, and get much
applause ; and Little Cliff seems likely to out-
grow his present pretty clothes before his popu-
larity wanes.
** * *
At the Palace, Spencer’s American Theatre-
scope reels off series upon series of pictures of
Frisco before the solid earth rocked under
•S - saine P lace vy hen the ’quake
and fire had left it a blackened mass of tottering
ruins. However, lest the spirit of gloom should
sit too heavily on the soul at the sight of this
sudden passing of earthly glory, there are comic
and humorous interludes in the shape of spooning
couples and other frivolities. Mankind is a
strange creature, and he steps forth from the pic-
tuie of a wrecked sky-scraper and dead bodies
the side-walks to smile cheerfully at
the spectacle of a man kissing somebody else’s
wife under a weeping willow. J
At Her Majesty’s, Sydney, William Collier
has been establishing for himself a high place
among the men who have played in Sydney in
that class of piece—the class that hovers unde-
cidedly between farce and comedy. This week-
end “On the Quiet ” gives place to “ The Dicta-
tor,” the first thing in which Collier played after
he had got through the ’Frisco shock. It’s a yarn
of a Spanish-American revolution ; and just at
the moment when Guatemala and Honduras and
San Salvador have set out to knock one another
off the country where they hang the Monroe doc-
trine, the story is right on the spot.
* # *
There was clearly a demand for the two
extra concerts given in Sydney Town Hall by
Miss Narelle and “Chanter” Fentress, for there
resulted a good supply of audience. At the first
of two concerts the amazing Dr. MacCarthy
taught the piano how to take a joke, for lie
played the accompaniment to the “ Black Bird,”
an air of bardic origin, which the programme
said was about 2000 years of age.
* -* * *
A new feature of the Bostock and Womb-
well circus is a lady wild beast tamer, who makes
the Bengal tigers lay their stripes at her feet,
and rides the Nubian lion like Una of old.
The Lukishima Japs and Japesses have some
new and equally startling performances. But
this week the circus relies upon the occult for
its main attraction. Last Thursday Professor
Bonner, a tall, youthful-looking man, hypnotised
Mr. Williams while a party of gentlemen hid
something in David Jones’s huge establishment.
When the party returned from hiding the article,
the hypnotised man fastened on to one of the party
and, although blindfolded, rushed the whole
crowd away through the city till he came to
Barrack-street, which he ran up and down
once or twice, and then, diving into the
ladies’ paradise, produced the hidden article
from the receptacle in which it had been
hidden. This week, the young man will
be buried alive in a sheet-iron coffin
and left in the cold mould for five days and nights.
A tube will give access to the tomb so that he will
not be suffocated, and through it any member of
the public can see the hypnotised man lying on
the bed in the ground. During that time he
will take neither food nor water, arid will not
leave the stretcher. Professor Bonner has an
arrangement of pulleys by which he can draw rugs
on and off the buried man as required, according
to the testimony of the thermometer, which
he will lower down the tube. It is a
curious idea of amusement, and the near-
est approach to that startling trick of the
Hindu fakirs, who, stopping the ears and nostrils
of a man with a certain kind of clay, bury his feet
deep in the naked earth, and shutting off all air
supplies, keep him there till the grass has grown
over his “grave,” When they dig him up and
restore him unharmed to his startled relatives.
* -* * *
The Fisk Singers announced their “last
night” Saturday last, but reconsidered their
intention, and are still playing nightly in the
Centenary Hall, Sydney. On Saturday next they
anticipate a move to the Lyceum Hall, Pitt-
street.
** * *
“The Squaw Man,” which was somewhat
rough and unready in its first night performance
at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, has now settled
down to a very prosperous career. Looking
critically at this American matter, one would
expect the cheap sentimentalism of the mixed-
marriage situations to prove a weakness in White
Australia ; but it seems that the hero’s loyalty to
his red skin spouse, who prowls moodily around
in charge of a pail, and his devotion to his half-
breed offspring, impress Melbourne even more
favorably than the convincing cow-town character
sketches and the artistic stage pictures for which
Coleman has supplied some admirable fixings and
backgrounds. An English father, hugging his
tinted youngster to his heart whilst consenting to
send him “home” to be educated as a future
English peer, satisfies a popular yearning for
pathos. Also, when the heroic parent produces a
folded paper that has “ never left his body”
during eight long years of toil and perspiration,
and the family lawyer reads the document at a
glance, everybody in front of the curtain rejoices
to think that the hero has proved his in-nocence.
Yet a similar incident in an Andersonian drama
would be received with smiles by the average
William sonian audience. “The Squaw Man,”
although its story bristles with unrealities, asks to
be taken seriously, like a really high-class melo-
drama, and it is taken seriously. Some of the
stage pictures have a lot of persuasive eloquence.
The besetting sins of orthodox English melo-
dramas are conspicuously absent. With the
exception of a vapid johnnie character, quietly
played by Cyril Mackay, there is no “comic
relief-” agent in the.story, nor any luridly wicked
person, bar the drunken rustler, who meets his
doom with a revolver in either hand.
■**■*■*
Charles Waldron’s tall, good-looking im-
personation of the hero improves on acquaintance.
He has an air of ingenuous youthfulness and
feminine manliness ; in fact, the actor’s method
of softening his voice inflections and in-
clining his head towards the person he ad-
dresses is strangely reminiscent of Nance
O’Neil’s masculine femininity. The statement that
he has a considerable Yankee accent should be
taken to mean that, as an English military officah
in the first act, he sounds unmistakably American
m contrast with Plimmer and others. And as a
hero generally Waldron puts a strong American
restraint upon himself, so that his alleged conflict
of feelings is left pretty much to one’s imagina-
tion. All of which remarks apply with four-fold
force to Miss Ola Humphrey, the Countess Diana
who needs to borrow a little of Mrs. G. B. Lewis’s
dramatic ginger. In her praiseworthy attempt
to cut a pathetic figure as Nat-U-Rich, the moody
squavv, Miss Florence Gleeson is handicapped by
her littleness, but this comes in handy at the
finish when Chief Tabywana (Hardy Kirkland)
brings her dead body along in his arms to testify
that his son-in-law has become a widower with
full power to marry Diana. The old Chief is one
of the pillars of the show, likewise Utah White
(who, having taught him to speak the Ute lan-
guage, interprets his utterance of it), and Big
Bill, the cow-puncher. Bill’s accent and bearing
are racy of the ranch in the same high degree that
Ca,sh Hawkins (George Bryant) is reeky of the
drinking saloon, and Nick, the bar-tender, is


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Gets There Quickest
7s
-~^J>
4/
CURES INDIGESTION'
HEADACHE a. NEURALGIA
FISHER’S
PHOSPHERME
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/6.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
Five Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares
on oath the following- : —“ I suffered from acute inflam-
mation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue
got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
vomiting. 1 consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I have been
in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of
’“y dlness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE always takes away a sour taste in the mouth,
and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone
know of mv case.”
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEM AIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney
SPEEDIEST CURE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASICKNESS.
characteristic of the bar. \Y it'h an interesting
crowd of new people in the effective parts, and a
strong selection of local talent in the unthankful
parts, “The Squaw Man” is going to boom for
several weeks.
** # *
“The Man from Mexico,” furnished with
a new songandance item, is getting near the end
of its fourth and last week at Melbourne Princess’s.
One more week remains at the disposal of the
Ward-Willoughby Co., and this will be devoted
to “ The Talk of the Town,” a farcical comedy by
Eille Norwood, whom Australia dimly remembers
as a member of the Brough-Boucicault forces. The
six nights’ limit for “ Talk of the Town ” is an un-
alterable arrangement, R. G. Knowles being due
at the Princess’s on the 28th.
By the courtesy of Willoughby and the
grace of Ward, a complimentary matinee will be
given to Leila Doubleday at the Princess’s on
Thursday next. The musical talent of Leila lias
been much talked about since she appeared at the
Town Hall some weeks ago, and the forthcoming
matinee concert will give a number of Melbourne
people a first opportunity to hear her, if they get
in ahead of the numerous admirers who want to
hear her again.
3}?
The present melodrama at the Royal will
pass away after Friday, deeply regretted by all
who can appreciate its audacious absurdities.
“ The Assassin ” never verges on dull probability
like some of the more blood-stained productions
of Anderson. The performers who try to be
funny are fairly successful; those who endeavor
to be not funny are exceedingly droll, and the
stage manager takes the biscuit with a series of
eccentric illuminations which come to pass, like
the writing on Belshazzar’s wall, for the purpose
of warning Willard that he must Prepare to Meet
his Doom. The Bill for next Saturday (21st) is
an original mystic drama, entitled “Dangerous
Women.” The word “mystic,” in its Ander-
sonian bearings, is full of promise.
* * *- *
Comedy sketches are the rule at the Opera
House just now. A while ago there was an
epidemic of j ugglery and acrobatics at the house
of Rickards, but the various professors of the
silent arts have all departed, and a number of
animated conversationalists remain in their stead.
Seymour and Dupre, who jump and dance, are
the least talkative of the sketchers. The latest
arrivals, Blake and Granby, have almost as fine a
flow of language as Homer Mason and his
Marguerite, the lady member of the firm being
foremost in the flow. All things considered,
Blake and Granby amount to something less than
they might have been at any other time than the
present.
* * * -MC-
Two of the most densely populated show
places in Melbourne last Saturday were the Town
Hall and Fitzgerald’s building. At the Hall
organist Lem are gave another recital, and at the
Building a number of fine, unimported artists
chopped and sawed wood in beautiful competi-
tion. Seemingly the Tasmanian performers were
first chop, and therefore they got the lion’s share
of the stakes, but if the virtue of the other con-
testants was its own reward they didn’t come off
badly. Seeing that Bent is throwing a lot of
chips in various directions, he might very well
spare a subsidy for an Annual Axemen’s Carnival
and set apart a gold medal for the soloist who sup-
ports himself on one leg and a crutch whilst
engaged in a wonderful underhand chop.
Hi Hi * *
The remarkable support always given by
Adelaide to the Broughs seems to have had some-
thing of the personal element in it, for the busi-
ness done in the Brough-Flemming season now
ended was only moderate. Miss Temple and Miss
Major have put in some clever work in small
parts, and Philip Leslie is an artistic humorist
who deserves bigger opportunities. Miss Beatrice
Day and Miss Winifred Fraser shine most where
they can play up to each other in contrasted parts,
as in “ Quality Street ” and “ The Walls of
Jericho.” The co. played itself out with
the funny but foolish “Passport” on Friday,
and “The Little Michus ” is to follow.
Meanwhile, the Tivoli has started on another
dramatic season, at prices ranging from sixpence
to the giddy height of a florin. The Richter co.
puts up “The Socialist” for a start, and goes in
for politics, relying strongly on a “moral tone,”
but not disdaining the free use of firearms.
Notices stating that “ a petition in favor
of the abolition of the income-tax may be signed
here ” have lately been splashed about Melbourne
and suburbs. It is a significant fact that many of
them are on view in the windows of pawnbrokers
and other money-lenders.
The most potent ally, “humanistic” or
“ Seddonistic ” legislation possesses in its efforts
to enlighten and enliven mankind is D.C L.
Whisky. When the wise man turneth to his
D.C.L. he gets the best sort of stimulant to the
best qualities of the mind. Also, it illumines
with the arc light of cheerfulness the gloomiest
spots of thought.*
Bruce Smith to Sydney Stab, concerning
the progressive land-tax: —
In Australia the several Governments have in the past
sold their land in the open market, and have used the
purchase money for public purposes. Therefore, this
spirit of confiscation was a sort of public crime, and would
not be denuded of its dishonest nature by having legis-
lative sanction.
Does B. Smith really believe that “ Australian
Governments have in the past sold their lands in
the open market ” ? Did B. Smith never hear
of the methods by which some of the estates passed
originally from the Government to private hands?
A short course of Australian history would make
B. Smith a much wiser man. (On second thoughts
it wouldn’t. Nothing could make B. Smith a
wiser man. He can acquire information, but not
wisdom.)
How to Grow a Mocstache.— Scores of people are
asking for a good recipe for producing a moustache.
Well, here’s the best moustache producer ever heard of—
Craig and Ait-ken’s Capillarine. This pushing firm sells
this preparation at 10s. 6d. a jar. It is a wonderfully
successful article, and, as a proof of its reliability it has
been sold in Australia for nearly a quarter of a century.
If it were not a good article it could never have lasted
and the firm could not have afforded to advertise it all
this time. It is a secret formula, guaranteed pure, and
will not injure the skin in any shape or form. There is
just one thing it will do and do it well—better than any
other article of its kind—and that is: grow a full
luxuriant moustache. The agents, Craig and Aitken, of
654 George-street, Sydney, send Capillarine post free
under sealed cover for 10s. 6d.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
Madame Trebelli, mother of Dolores, showed Arditi
round Stratford-on-Avon. She found him apathetic at
Shakspeare’s tomb. “Otello! Romeo!” exclaimed
Madame. “Ah !” said Arditi. “Ze librettist ! ”
A severe loss to Australian music is the death of
Heaps, the Sydney violin and ’cello virtuoso.
Said Mrs. Merry-go-round: “I like the life. I’ve
lived in tents for 26 years, and travelled with the merry-
go-round for 17, principally in Queensland. As you say,
it’s agreed with me right enough ; and—l suppose it’s use
—I miss the tent. Houses don’t seem home-like. It’s a
good payin’ game if you have a bit of money to start with.
You could start in a small way for about £200; but it runs
into a lot of money if you have waggons, tents, &c., and
a traction engine for shifting camp and working the show.
We build our own turn-outs, barring the “ horses ” ; and
this one cost about £lOOO, engine and all. The wooden
steeds are American and Herman made ; but we’re getting
our next lot made in Sydney.”
Harry Leston has for some time been seriously ill,
appendicitis being the disturbing element. He is very
slowly recovering, and was last week admitted into the
Walker Convalescent Hospital.
The stage infant phenomenon is sufficiently wearisome,
but considerably more monotonous is the juvenile utterer
of heavy moral sentiments. Melbourne has recently been
afflicted with a specimen in the person of “ Master Roy
Painter, Australia’s boy temperance orator.” The infant
hurls his platitudes under the admiring chairmanship of
the parental Samuel Painter, a frequent candidate for
Parliament on the “ good man ” ticket.
T. Bent let himself go very freely at the Melbourne
City Newsboys’ gathering t’other night. He made what
he aptly described as a series of “ rambling remarks,” and
when he wasn’t remarking ramblesomely he perpetrated
snatches of song, the contrast between the 18 stone
Premier and his 18 ounce singing voice being too funny
for words. On these festive occasions Bent is oblivious
to the fact that he is half-a-century behind the times in
his frivolity. The other night he quite seriously exhorted
the boys to join him in ditties which had died with their
grandfathers—ditties concerning flies and bluebottles, the
refrain whereof is “ tiddle-iddle-ee.” An ordinary old
man notes that most of the popular babbles of his boy-
hood survive only in his failing memory, but these are the
very relics that Bent submits to the rising generation as
things of enduring interest. Many people give Bent
credit for being designedly absurd in order to join in a
hearty laugh against himself. As a matter of fact he is
unconscious of his own foolishness. He attaches great
importance to the choruses he learned when he was
young, and he reckons that the stamp of his infant
approval has conferred a lasting distinction upon “ tiddle-
iddle-ee.” He speaks of ancient happenings as things
which “ everybody remembers,” because he regards Bent
as pretty nearly everybody.
Apropos “The Squaw Man”’ An American humorist
asserts that the stage Indian belongs to “an extinct
tribe that never existed.”
“ Lil ” : The gallery-boy who is paid by the manager to
take the villain’s machinations seriously (8., 5'7/’O6) is a
comparatively harmless type. A really objectionable
stage hanger-on is the hoodlum who pesters members of
minor troupes into keeping him and his pals in beer
money, oh the ground that any performer who doesn’t
contribute will be howled down. Many a poor serio-girl
who has stood out against blackmail has been reduced to
tears by these miserable loafers. Painful as the serio’s
performance sometimes is, she doesn’t quite deserve that,
and occasionally she has an aged parent to support.
The substitution of Ada Crossley for Clara Butt, at the
recent Handel Festival, was necessitated by an interest-
ing domestic matter. On May 29th Miss Butt (Mrs. Rum-
ford) presented her husband with a small boy (who is to
have Princess Christian for his godmother, if you please),
and since then the baby has been singing louder than
momtner. The Butts— i.s., the Kennerley Rumfords—are
not due in Australia until next year, but in the meantime
the Tait Brethren have their soprano songstress to boom.
Nevin Tait writes from London that Dolores will reach
Sydney (D.V.) in the first week of August. She will come
via San Francisco, unless another earthquake intervenes.
Dolores has been very busy during her four years’ absence
from Australia. She has sung in almost every capital city
in Europe, and was in fine voice the last time she warbled.
A. W. Arnold and his wife, two ancient Thespians,
dating from the early digging’ days, have just celebrated
their golden wedding at Avoca (Vic.). For two years
they played with G. V. Brooke, and Arnold also played a
part in the Eureka Stockdale affair. His eldest son is
on the staff of Adelaide Chronicle.
“ O’Fipp ” : Hugh Ward’s early experience with a min-
strel troupe (recorded in Bulletin 5/7/’O6) reminds that a
big percentage of notable American actors started in the
same way. Joe Jefferson “jumped Jim Crow” with a
blackened face at the age of four. Tragedians Edwin
Booth, Lawrence Barrett, and Edwin Forrest all worked
their way from nigger minstrel business to the top of
their profession. Also Phineas T. Barnum was a Brudder
Bones early in his career, but he carefully smothered the
guilty secret lest it should compromise his dignity. A
dime museum man’s dignity is a fearful and wonderful
thing, and not to be tampered with lightly.
After closing the Melbourne season, the Willoughby
Ward Co. goes on to Geelong and Warrnambool, and opens
in Adelaide on August 4,
Madame Oalv6, in her first appearance as the page
Cherubino, in Mozart’s “ Nozze di Figaro,” thought her
calves were decidedly not good enough. So she padded.
At the first interval, the manager said, “ That was absurd.
Your own figure would be the exact thing.” So she went
on in the second act without pads, and could not under-
stand why the manager was angrier than ever. The
manager thought there was too much variety about the
page Cherubino.
“O’Fipp”: The officials of the South Melbourne musi-
cal and elocutionary competitions have arisen in their
wrath. They declare, with all the pent-up fury induced
by dealing with competitions for more years than oiie
likes to think of, that they’ll be jiggered or something if
they’ll listen till the bitter end of a song or a recitation
after the performer has shown right at the beginning that
he hasn’t even Buckley’s chance of securing a prize.
Also, they think variety of choice should be allowed the
performers, instead of making all in one division toil
through the same piece. Before this epoch-making de-
claration it was no uncommon thing for 23 girls to arise
one after another, and plod steadily through the seven
verses of “I’m a merry Gitana ! Ha, ha! Ha, ha!”
Then 19 fair to middling bassos (mostly middling) would
severally describe themselves as “The monarch of the
storm,” each asserting 18 distinct times (342
times in all) that “ I chuckle and laugh, ho! ho!
ho! ho! ” But all this conscientious mirth was
as nothing to the efforts given to an ungrateful
world by another set of geniuses. After numerous pain-
ful repetitions of “ The Speech of Lucius Junius Brutus
over the Dead Body of Lucretia” had done their best to
scatter a few more corpses o’er a smiling land, the bright
under-35 division favored, about 61 times, with good old
stodgy G. R. Sims’s “ Billy’s Rose ” and “ Christmas Day
in the Work-’ouse.” Then there was usually a teri-
minutes interval for the audience to retire while the care-
taker swept up the dropped pathos and conveyed it to
the ash-bin. The officials seem to think they will avoid
all the untempting repetition by their new rule as to
selection of pieces. But they little know the precedent-
following mind of the victim to the competition habit.
As soon will Brer Rabbit cease to burrow as the competi-
tion fiend relinquish his passion for the one restricted
round of imported Sims and imported “ Parrhasius.”
The famous old-time actress, Dora Jordan, mother of
William IV.’s 10 children, comes into notice once more
with the auction sale in London of a big bundle of her
unpublished love-letters to the unworthy object of her
affections. The letters, curiously enough, were preserved
by William’s legitimate (and childless) wife, Queen Ade-
laide. Probably she kept them in an ice-chest to throw
up at her Silly Billy when there was a domestic row on.
William’s shabby treatment of Mrs. Jordan tarnishes what
little gilt there was on his character. It is a long and
sordid tale, ending with Dora’s death in poverty, exiled
from England by debt and robbed of her children by sweet
William.
“ Tho Dairymaids,” Robert Courtneidge’s musical
comedy, now running- at the Apollo Theatre (Lon.), with
Carrie Moore in the lead, is being strongly recommended
by physical culturists. Although the aestheticism of
athleticism is somewhat satirised in the scene of Miss
Pyechases’ Gymnasium, where Carrie sings “ The Sandow
Girl,” the demonstration is very fetching, and it is re-
garded by professors as a first-rate ad. for their schools.
Muscular development of beauty in the she-sex has
become a matter of serious public interest since the less
enlightened time of Pinero’s comedy, “ The Amazons.”
The Countess’ three daughters were put through a daily
course of physical training as part of their education in
mannishness, but the scene in “ The Dairymaids ” intro-
duces dumb-bells as aids to beauty and implements of
girlish grace.
“ Philo ” : An Australian artist who has done well
abroad is Nat Phillips. Failing to obtain recognition by
the Australian vaudeville houses, he left, not quite three
years ago, with another Australian named Tommy
Armstrong, for the land of the Beef Trust and the earth-
quake. He did well in U.S.A. and Canada. Then with
his wife, Miss Daisy Meritt, of Sydney, he started East-
ward, as “Merritt and Phillips, the Whistling Girl and
the Dancing Dude.” Again did well in U.S.A., and
went on to England, and appeared with success in
London. After working the English provinces, they
were booked by Richard Warner for a tour of Europe.
After that they will return to London for a season at the
Alhambra. Nat Phillips comes from an old theatrical
stock. He is a grandson of Raphael Tolano, a one-time
incandescent light in the Australian theatrical business,
who was lessee of the old Prince of Wales and Victoria
Theatres, and the first manager to produce “ East
Lynne ” in Australia.
Collier’s most popular pieces in America are “The
Dictator” and “The Man from Mexico.” Hugh Ward
had bousrht the Australian rights of “ Mexico,” and
might have secured “ The Dictator ” likewise before there
was any thought of Collier coming to this country.
George Bryant, who plays the quarrelsome cattle
duffer in “The Squaw Man,” and plays it very well, is
only new to this country as a member of the imported
section of the co. In his young days, 20 years ago—he
hasn’t visibly aged in the meantime—George Bryant was
a member of Williamson, Garner and Musgrove's Dramatic
Co. what time the firm was running Melbourne Royal.
He went to America to try his luck, and got very good
inducements to stay there.
A DUAL CONDEMNATION.
Bung and Stiggins join hands in barring a
bar gt the new Sydney railway station.
Late boss showman Bailey once possessed the first baby
elephant born in captivity. Barnum offered him 20,000
dollars for it, but Barnum’s offer was in itself worth more
to Bailey than that. He toured the country exhibiting
a flaming' poster, headed, “What Barnum thinks of my
Baby Elephant,” and Barnum’s offer underneath. Then
Barnum recognised a kindred spirit, and went into
partnership with Bailey.
“ An actress,” said Madge Kendal, “ must.have the face
of a goddess, the strength of a lion, the figure of a Venus,
the voice of a dove, the temper of an angel, the grace of a
swan, the agility of an antelope, and the skin of a
rhinoceros.” Whereby Madge probably meapt to imply
that she, being ah actress, bad all these, but she hadn’t.
For that matter a dustman ought to have the figure of a
tireek god if he can get it, but as a rule he can’t.
Said that Irving’s occasional flashes in off-stage
speeches were mostly prepared for him by London writer
L. F. Austin, also recently deceased. Few stars are
originally brilliant off the boards. It takes them all thei r
time to learn other people’s clever sayings.
COLLECTIVE INVESTIGATION.-The ex-
perience of millions of people in all quarters of the
habitable globe, during the last quarter of a
century, has confirmed the value of Hunyadi Janos
as the best and safest natural aperient. Invalu-
able to diners-out.*
“ Quan ” : Bulletin (28/6/’O6) quotes the
case of the charwomen employed by the N.S.W.
Taxation Department, each of whom has to clean
and scrub about 3500 square feet of flooring for a
miserable£so per annum. Little enough, I’ll allow;
but I know a teacher in a seventh class N.S.W.
public school who sweeps the school and weather-
shed every day, scrubs them every week, and also
cleans the windows weekly for £2 12s. Id. a year.
(He’s legally entitled to £2 12s. 1 5-7 d., but the
Education Department systematically robs him of
the fraction.) The floor space of the school ex-
ceeds 1000 square feet. The weather-shed amounts
to nearly 400 square feet, and there are 11 win-
dows, eight of them containing 191, square feet of
glass each.
Odol is so instantly refreshing in use, so
pleasant of odor and taste, and so lasting in its antiseptic
effects that it ought to find its way into every house
where good teeth and healthy mouths are valued, which
should be everywhere. Decay is prevented or arrested by
its use, and the teeth last twice as long' as they otherwise
would do. Bad teeth not only detract from one’s
personal appearance but have such a serious effect upon
the functions of digestion that chronic ill health often
follows.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) tv ill he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A. : Altogether a fallacious argument. Child-
bearing not only does not injure but actually strengthens
a healthy woman. Royal personages, you’ll find, don’t
die from rapid child-bearing, and some of them have been
very rapid indeed. Of course two children (at different
births) in one year isn’t good : if the mother reared the
first naturally, it wouldn’t be possible. The horrors
pictured in the “Jungle” are due to Capitalism, not
to a neglect of any of the means for “ limiting the
population” Martin K. : In absolutely the first class.
Some musicians indeed hold that Melba represents the
highest achievement yet recorded of the soprano voice
Liber : No, it’s a lie, and a clumsy lie at that. The Bulle-
tin was “ pro-Boer ” from the first, when to be anti-Jingo
was to be the target of thousands of shrieking fools, and
it never changed its views or its attitude one iota —not
even in these latter days, when to be a pro-Boer is to be
fashionable.... Vic. :We refuse absolutely to publish any
speculations as to the identity of the Victorian politician
who used to wander round stark naked in company w ith
a lubra. The gentleman probably was actuated by the
noble motive of trying to keep the N.S. YV. Parlia-
ment in countenance. Anyhow, in view of Costs,
his name won’t appear in this paper... .Z.Z. : N 0....
K.H.A. : Will bring the matter under the notice of the
Protectionist organisation L.M. : (1) Paragraphs pro-
mising, but not quite good enough. (2) Yes, it’s a reli-
able concern Alen S. : Pretty, and that is all
W.C.S. : Both to ashes accordingly Inquirer: Don’t
think that long possession holds good as against the
Crown ; but it’s a moot point. Under all the circum-
stances, would suggest that you apply to the State
Land Department for a title on grounds of equity....
A.W.W.M. : Unfortunately it is difficult to get the names
you ask for T. W. (Darlinghurst): After all, what did
the magpie die for? W.M. (Black Range): There is a
railway tunnel near Clarence, N.S.W M.S.T. : Letter
funnier than the picture VV.R. : Doesn’t read real
The Pessimist: Pretty true on the whole... .Maorilander :
Certainly the great blot on Seddon’s record shapes as
1.0. U., and The Bulletin never hesitated to condemn
him for that, and for his Jingoism. But there is no use
in discussing whether he was a digger or a publican
originally Huti: Arion of Lesbos (625 B.o.) is
credited with the invention of the dithyrambic
measure in poetry B.H.S. : No license required
M. Guerin: Insufferably long-winded.. ..Housee: No
fun in such an unadorned lie... .Beauvery : You don’t
get any force or point into it Emma M. : Very flat
and conventional T.D.S.: Tawdry and hysterical
Wyvern : Too much mechanical eccentricity and affected
laconicism Pan : Turgid and bombastic... .H. Mac.:
Artificial passion and slovenly style... .D.A.0’8.: Neither
true nor useful nor amusing Latrax : Weakly declama-
tory A.T.W. : Neatly versified, but uninspired
Val D. : Too tragical to be tragic Lottie M. : Spoilt
by the continual use of stock phrases.... Audace : W.P.8..
though it has a glimmer of merit F.S.S. : Thoughtful,
but somewhat far-fetched and artificial.... Dupleix:
“Celia” is much the better of the two, but doesn’t quite
score.... Elijah : Obscure and clumsy Black Sheep:
Not far short of the mark H.G. (Miss): No; it can’t.
fairly be called commonplace, though it doesn’t quite reach,
the standard... .Francis L. : All crude and inartistic....
Muster : Impossible Eric S. : Mildly meritorious... ..
Hopa : Cheap and obvious Len W. : Work very crude
as yet... .Geo. A.: Only good part about it is the rhythm.
....Inez: Sorry you can't send the poem direct to the
girl, as she’s been dead four years ; but we don’t circu-
late much there either Unsuitable: Alexis, D.8.K.,.
Billila, Kate H., C.R.8., Shallop, Jane 8., Fitz, J.E.H.,
Mary B.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Dick H. : Glad to consider any work you send from
abroad.. ..A.P.E. (or something like that): Weak joke ;
drawing shows a gleam of promise B.S. : “ Bushman ”
not much good. Other picture somewhat tottery in the
perspective.... E.Q. : Suggestion good enough in a sense,
but it’s alw'ays unsafe to prophesy A.C.W. : One sug-
gestion dull, and the other hardly respectable S.E.P. :
The “truly rural” joke has seen its best days Kite:
Picture of George Reid at a funeral declined... .V.G.R.
(Melbourne): Pretty good work for your age, but not
within cannon shot of publication R.H.S. : Picture of
Reid with a dog for a toe not quite up Ben D. : Sug-
gestion contains an awful heap of details, but is not very
promising E.Q. : “ Trying to Scare the Boy” doesn’t
strike any idea Carswell: Hardly good enough
R.G. : “Stuck Up” declined. Drawing pretty good,
but not wildly mirthful.
The prices averaged at the recent Sydney
stud-sheep sales give some idea of the way land-
holders are rushing in to stock up and get 2os. for
their fat sheep and top prices for their wool (up
North only a few years ago thousands of fat bul-
locks were sold for 255. a head). The Hill-Clark
firm ran through 545 merinoes which averaged
£23 3s. 2d.; their little Tasmanian lot crept up to
an average of £63 13s. 3d.—which is pretty dear
mutton chop.
The N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’ Show, re-
cently concluded to the relief of Sydney news-
paper readers, on whose nerves the blessed affair
was getting, gavesome £BOO in prizes, of which Sam
M'Caughey and J. S. Horsfall took nearly half,
winning between them all the decent prizes. The
members of the association were grumbling at the.
futility of competing with the long-pursed pair of
squatters when a whisper went round that the-
association, which is representative of the back-
bone of the country, would take it as a favor if
the prize-winners would kindly return their
cheques as a donation to the funds. Some angry
ones blurted out that if the association was to be
run for the glorification of M'Caughey and
Horsfall, the least they could do would be to
finance it, whereupon it was announced that only
those who wished to return their prizes in a
purely graceful, gentlemanly way would be ex-
pected to do so, and the meeting dispersed in a
■trained kind of wav.


Furred vSkins
Rabbit iS’kins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIGN/TENTS TO—
HILL CLARK & CO.,
Woo/ and Produce Salesmen, YDNE Y
Friend, when a cold invades the nose,
And damp the daily hanky grows,
When racking coughs distract the breast,
And rob you of your nightly rest,
And shooting pains in chest and joint
To pulmonary troubles point—
What can once more good health ensure,
Why, simply Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.’ 1 '
Quinine that does not affect the head,
Laxative Bronro Quinine Tablets represent
Quinine, combined with other ingredients, in the
most acceptable and efficacious form for colds,
influenza, grip, or any catarrhal disorders. Head-
ache and feverish, or malarious conditions. At
all chemists, Is. ljd.*
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, XO/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France.
STUDY
Money-Making
Subjects.
Send now for “ Home
Stddy,” post free.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
Moore St., Sydney. [5
ħ
SOCIETY
A moody Wairarapa farmer lately adopted
an effective way of ending a weary life. He
collected a stack of dry wood in the centre of a
paddock, set fire to the four cardinal points of the
heap, and when he was satisfied that it would
blaze all right, jumped on the top, and shot
himself with a rifle.
* * * *
An unusual and extra-certain sort of suicide
was that of Carlo Rusconi, a Castleinaine (Vic.)
charcoal-burner, who lately took a revolver in
each hand and fired into each temple, the bullets
meeting about the centre. But goodness knows
why lie should have taken such trouble when there
was a nice, easy, painless death lurking at hand in
his charcoal.
In the way of business and affection com-
bined with abbreviation this advt. takes a fairly
conspicuous position :
CjETTLER, ab. 30, start poult, farm, wd. mar. girl,
past 21, fond outdoor, simple life ; not afraid 2 or
3 yrs’. rough fr. sake make comf. love. home. Wr.
bef. July 12, Mr. Shingle, G.P.0., Sydney.
Many a careworn w. hustling in a bk. st. in the
gt. m t’p lis will envy that pict. of the comf. lov.
home with the li’ns running past the dr. and the
casual tramp being bitten by Mr. Shingle’s d’g.
« * * *
In tlie street, the other day, a big
woman went past. Said Williams: “There
goes Mrs. , from the pub. at the corner, and
if ever there wa3 a lady she’s one. Why, many’s
the time I’ve seen her get up in the middle of the
night, with only her nightdress on, to stop a
fight.” And perhaps Williams wasn’t so far
wrong.
SHADE OF MELBA!
"Are you very fond of music?”
"Fond of it? It’s my one extrava-
gance. Nearly every week I
spend two or three pounds on phonograph records."
‘‘Hamer” : A short experience of Auck-
ind (M.L ) gave me the impression that it is a
city of inflexible women. A friend of mine took
possession of me one night and the first inflexible
woman we met was the wife of a publican, who
insisted that we should leave the hotel at 10
o clock. We subsequently went with some other
friends to. supper and when we were loath to
leave, the inflexible manageress of the restaurant
informed us that she had put our hats outside,
and we went out to find them When I reached
my boarding-house I found the bolt 011 the door ;
and my inflexible landlady refused to open the
premises she said she wasnt going to have her
boarders coming home at all hours. I sought my
friend’s house, and found that the inflexible
woman he was married to had handed his blankets
out through the window and told hint he -right
as well finish the night outside. So we sat
together and lamented on an inflexible doorstep.
The trained nurses of Melbourne are con-
fronted by the discouraging fact that, whereas
their numbers are increasing at an absurd rate,
the health of the city and—in a lesser degree—of
the suburbs is improving steadily. The sewering
ot the metropolis has affected a remarkable
diminution in the death-rate. For 1905 it was the
lowest on record. Typhoid cases are an incon-
siderable quantity; and young men of the type
that formerly suffered from lung and chest com-
piaints are now adopting the “Sandow” cure,
and the fresh air cure, and the ministering angels
in cap and apron are getting very few patients
"ho want to marry them. The medical profession
also is overstocked, but the doctors suffer less
than the nurses from scarcity of work, for there
are always plenty of people determined to be
rather sick if they can’t be seriously ill. These
are no good to the nurses. The doctors want all
the money that can be got from such cases.
Perhaps if the truth were brought fairly
home to the public there would be more nurse
a i i' l the sick-rooms. Except in
palpably serious cases a nurse would be summoned
to the patient before a doctor was consulted and
the bright young woman with the cheerful “bed-
side manner would give her opinion as to
whether a doctor was an urgent necessity. More
often than not, he wouldn’t be required, and the
person—patient or otherwise—who paid the
nurse s fee would rejoice over a saving of money.
Half the time of the detectives investi-
gating the so-far-insoluble St. Kilda (Vic.)
murder is wasted in pondering over theories
offered by amateur detectives. The deceased
reached the hospital with a deep gash, as
from a hatchet, over his right eye, and his
right ear half severed. Some amazing “sleuth
hounds” have advanced the theory that it must
have been a case of suicide. Others demonstrate
to their own satisfaction that deceased acci-
dentally fell into a deep drain, comjiletely ignor-
ing the blood-splashed wall of the lavatory.
Another original theorist demonstrates that the
dead man must certainly have been kicked by a
horse. There being no horses in the reserve
round the lavatory, the animal presumably came
from his stable for the express purpose of assault-
ing O Rourke, and having smitten him a few
times, twisted himself out of the lavatory,
jumped a 20ft. drain, and returned to his manger.
But the quaintest theory is that of a Brighton
genius, to the effect that deceased was struck by
a meteorite. “ A meteorite,” says he, “must fail
somewhere ; why not on a man’s head ? ” The
theory is all right, as far as it goes ; but it doesn’t
go to the end. It doesn’t say what became of the
meteorite after it had wounded O’Rourke. A
theory that, to account for the slaying of an
ordinary gardener, brings a huge meteorite out of
the heavens, makes it smite him in two places
and then leaves it nowhere, is only a half-baked
theory, after all.
* * * *
“ J. 8.0. ” : A shame that a number of our
Australian girls should be educated by teachers of
“refined colleges for girls’’ to pronounce
“nice” as “ naice,” “town” as “ taown,”
drawled out m the languid English manner. It
is a fact that at these seminaries youngsters are
made to pronounce words “ Dike English gairls”
by their snob teachers. The “ bleat ” thus instilled
is far worse than the much-talked-of Australian
accent.
**. * *
Melbourne advt. :
T ADY wishes position Housekeeper, one or two
gentlemen, otherwise. Apply Mrs. Craig’s Re-
gistry, Geelong.
“Otherwise ” is distinctly nice and obliging.
The irresponsible parson again—less
dependable as a witness than Woman. Barrack-
ing for Cold-tea-ism, in Melbourne, with Judkins
Woodfall and co„ Rev. Hoban lately stated that
he saw two uniformed constables drink n- W
beers 111 a hotel, and took their numbers° Thf
department sent a detective to discover their
identity, but Hoban was giving no detafls-it is
harder to tear details out of a parson than entrails
out of a post. He just leaves the matter It 1
general slander on the force
* * * ,
Brisbane’s Young Men’s Christian Associa-
tion includes, among its properties the Treasury
Hotel, George-street, run by Mr Cutbush He
has been a eood friend A lit' fHA ’
YM C A’s Also he has a crlmWf
jSt intSft.’fi o'fi'S-
mience is that nn V™,™ rS,,„ at n*
? a ke the initiative iltrying to shut up the pub.
WHEN THE BUTCHER WANTS HIS
MONEY.
MRS. BLANK: “ Before you married me you used
to say you were well off."
MR. B LANK: "So I was; but I was a fool , and
didn't know it."
The Jap who lives in Queensland doesn’t
wear any tail feathers to speak of ; but the visit-
ing Jap is a whole menagerie. Decently, after
the small, gold-braided person from the Monkey
warships had been there and been fussed over as
usual, the municipal people who run the Cairns
(N.Q.) tramway were met with a demand that
Japanese should be permitted to ride in the
“white” section of the local tram. The local
Jap didn’t want to ride “white ” ; he lives in the
discolored part of the town from choice, and pigs-
in there with Ah Chin, Tommy Tanna, and the
rest of the miscellaneous collection of Chinatown,
and he would prefer to travel with the same
people that he prefers to live with. But the bump-
tious visiting Monkey, swollen after his scrap with
the unready Bear, fired in his demand, and as the
Cairns tramway bosses didn’t know what to do
about it, they passed it on to the State Govern-
ment ; and the State Government drew back from
the prickly subject, and, in a pained voice, asked
the Cairns people if they couldn’t manage their
own tramway traffic. Both State and local
authorities have spent some months trying to for-
get all about the matter; but, every time they
think they are forgetting nicely, a memo, comes
from the Japanese Department of Frills and
Feathers asking them what they have done about
it. They might suggest that the Jap should
devote the next- million years to whitening his
face, and then he could come back and ride white.
* * * *
A correspondent:—
The allotment of the Rhodes Scholarships by the
shocking University Senate wants looking into. The
first N.S. Wales scholar was Barton, and though the
choice was not the best at the time, it was passable as a
compliment to Barton’s father. Since then two other
appointments have been made, and both of them gro-
tesque. Rhodes laid it down that candidates must excel
in manly sports, but the only claim of Rogers in this con-
nection was that he once won a handicap at a college car-
nival; and that of M’Callum that he once played some
“B grade’’lawn tennis with small success for the Uni-
versity. On second thoughts, however, the latter had
another claim inasmuch as his father was a mem-
ber of the Senate. But bad as these appointments
were, a much worse one is in prospect. A son of
another member of the Senate is being coached labori-
ously in several sports, for which he has never shown
any liking or aptitude, with a view to his selection as the
next Rhodes scholar. He is a studious youth of some in-
telligence, and it is possible that he might do N.S. Wales
credit in the schools. But it was not youths of this
academic sort that Rhodes wanted—he stipulated for
muscle and pluck as well as for brains, and, whether his
wishes were right or wrong, it is only decency to respect
them.
* * * *
Perhaps the most eloquent five lines that
could be written about Seddon’s services tc
Maoriland are in this record of the movement of
the Maoriland marriage rate :
1896 .. 6-85 per 1000
1897 .. 6-83
1898 .. 6-91 „
1899 .. 7-28
1900 .. 7-67
1901 .. 7-83 per 1000
1902 .. 8-01 „
1903 .. 8-23
1904 .. 8-26
1905 .. 8-28 „
For nine years without a break there has been an
increase in the proportion of people who have set
up house-keeping, and every new house was a
statesman’s monument.
“W.N.”:
Paddy’s Ma-
rket (Syd-
ney), on a
Saturday
night, is "a
weird and
wonderful
panorama of
squalor, sin,
sanctity, and
smell. One
hobnobs
with Liz
from the
’Loo, cheek
by jowl with
the Booth
brig a d o.
Sometimes
the push
chiak Liz,
and Liz’s
voabulary,
aided by bad
beer, is ter-
rible. The
Chow runs
the vege-
table world
here, and the
Dago is in evi-
dence on all
sides. Australia
has a small say.
in the persons of
‘ ‘Ginger the Pebble ”
and “Billy the Nark,”
who, for the small sum
of 4d., will present you
with a pair of fine trapped
rabbits. Billy's jaw does
not invite hesitation on your
part when he asks you to
patronise him, and, anyhow,
4d. is not a big sum to waste, and
you close the deal. On the corner
a Jew is selling an article which
has a dozen uses, from cutting glass to
acting as a razor. Cox, of the Domain,
with a motley group of invalids, holds,
on the opposite corner, a big siege for
the stray thrum, and, over the road, Jacky
Wun Lung and Mickey Sin are defying
Sergeant Kelly and all his pomps and works by
running an “ Empire Club.” The shutting up of
the Markets is at ten o’clock, and the pushites and
pushesses, Dagos, drunks, Chows, Army, and
peanut men are emptied out on the roadway.
Then the arguments start at the corner, and all
Sllb jects are discussed. The police do not apply
the move-on rule, and not till about 1 a.m. does
“ Peace, perfect Peace ” reign over this salubrious
quarter „ *
An interesting work going forward is the
improvement of the Saltwater River (Melb.) by
subscriptions from the inhabitants of Flemington
and Essendon, with an eye, of course, to honest
boodle. The river comes to the racecourse from
Maribyrnong, and here the Essendonians are
going to rival Henley-on-the-Yarra, which won’t
be difficult. It is pointed out by deep-sinking
local antiquarians that Wedge and party came up
to Maribyrnong by boat before the other arm of
the river, the Yarra proper, was discovered,
* * * *
jt rFr- an V he *•**>:?**?
m ° PP Q S^ g the ?f tab '
bs “ ent fl of f a bar at the n « w Sydl * ey railway
BULLETIN hfS a recurrence of
* ° ld dark brOW ? ®“P«aon that Bung provides a
} ejnoney or teetotal cranks.
The wearv soaker who occasionallv nro-
•, , ... ei wil ° occasionally p
™ th ,®,P ress about his or her
hurK ‘ redtll conviction is about to get proper treat-
™enfc I n Victoria, and probably also in k.
, ustrapa - In Royal 1 ark (Melb.) the inebriates
he built will accommodate 50 patients,
? nd ln Aust I ru ‘ a a Parliamentary Commission
an Act similar to those of
, 6 ,? 0 j Ab Wales and Victoria. If the Act
?. oesn f o m . ore J° Q r *‘l® p eery one down South
than it has in N.S. Wales, it won t help the
situation much.
IN THE WRONG BOX.
WARDER (to irascible prisoner): “Look here,
this place is too good for you. You ought to
be in the N.S.W. Parliament."
Last week’s weddings in Australasia were
rather sensational. One bridegroom, sauntering
round Ballarat just before the ceremony, was
robbed of all the cash he had saved up for honey-
moon expenses, and he had to moon on tick.
Another bridegroom was arrested for forgery
while in the church waiting for the bride, and
having a wooden leg, and a revolver in that leg,
shot himself dead before he reached the lock-up.
In the third case the couple managed to get
united all right, but, just as they were going
away, discovered that the bridegroom’s father had
hanged himself in the back-yard. Thereupon the
guests dispersed. On the way home a boat-load
of them capsized while crossing a stream, and did
a shiver on a convenient snag in the river until
daylight.
A RIGHT OF MAN’S.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T meet reformers day and night ;
The meddlers snatch at each delight.
They seek to trap me unawares,
And change my favorite sins for theirs.
I take a drink, and it excites
The lank and sallow Rechabites ;
1 gamble in a bob or so,
And Judkins hunts me to and fro ;
I hug a girl, and find it good—
Out jump the shrieking brotherhood 1
Grown weary now, I ask my clan
To barrack for the rights of man.
Especially the best of all,
The right that came through Adam’s fall.
Inalienable, treasured long—
The right to do a little wrong !
vie.
SILAS SNELL.


To Thrifty Men.
MV OVERCOAT
4
Good Cloth
Good Linings
Good Tailoring
Good Style
Good Fit
Good Finish
Good Gracious!*’
55/
That’s fearfully
cheap!”
R. C. HAGON, Merchant Tailor, J 29 King' St.,
Sydney.
For the best part of a fortnight after his
funeral the grave of Richard Seddon was guarded
by troops. Uneasy feelings got abroad that body-
snatchers were feared, but an official announce-
ment stated that the soldiers were there to guard
the mats and greenstone relics and other curios
sent by the Maoris as tokens of respect for the
departed leader. The Maori custom is that these
shall lie upon the grave for a oertain number of
days, and, the white curio-hunter having no respect
for the law of tapu, it was thought necessary to
employ guards.
#'*■*■*
It was left to the Prahran branch of the
Vic. P.L.C. to draw attention to the insane prac-
tice of the “ authorities ” in forwarding to a city
laundry dirty linen from the Broadmeadows Con-
sumptive Sanatorium in the same railway vans
with butter and milk. We’re not so far ahead of
Chicago, after all.
* * * •
This seems to be a grievance of some kind:
That thoroughly decorous nook of Melbourne Bohemia,
Fasoli’s Pension Suisse, has again been dragged from its
normal routine of cheap meals, smart talk, and harmless
unconventionality. This time by the Age, which pub-
lished much inept comment on the little cafe and its
habitues. If the reporter was picturesque about Fasoli s,
Fasolians are vitriolic about his work, and waste a good
deal of meal-time arguing hotly on the question of Press
privilege. The “ regulars,” who vary from State Premiers
and puisne Judges to foreign gentlemen who play classic
melodies by the kerbstone, don’t appreciate the cheap
publicity occasionally given to their haunt. It causes an
invasion of their pleasant preserve by worthy gentlemen,
who bring along part of the family, with a view to seeing
the life from the inside. The simpering Miss, who
imagines she is being wicked, also turns up ; and, worst of
all, the devil of a fellow who talks “ pidgin English ” to the
second oldest customer, who is eloquent in two languages
and f 1 lent in five. Even Fasolians have feelings, and they
aon’t care to be regarded as zoological curiosities by subur-
ban S- mday-school inspectors. Such intruders disturb the
gorge of the oldest customer. He longs for those days
when no impudent ink-slingers came along to write unkind
comments on the people who advised as to the merits of
the garlic salads, and dropped a gentle hint regarding the
tactlessness of the casual diner’s usual tribute to the
place—“ so Bo’emian.” The 0.0. thinks of those nights
when “ the bovs ” —amongst them the Lindsay brothers,
Randolph Bedford, Phil May’s “ Parson,” and brilliant
old Hammond—entranced the hours with jests that
were original; phrases that were memorable; and ideas that
seemed unique as they budded in that din of laughter
and wit. He ponders on a magnificently empirical doc-
trine often expounded at that table by Clement VVragge ;
on that weird French youth, who, after a large dinner,
would sing Hawaiian dirges as well as any native. He
thint i of charming Manaoli, who was recalled
from a banana shop here to the command of an
Abyssinian expedition numbering seven hundred
men, chiefly selected from the graduates of Italian
Universities j of his brave heart and passionate brain.
Memory excites ghosts of Bedford’s objurgations, and
they hover disgustedly about the heads of those inquisi-
tive Philistines who, prying there, find in that dingy
room merely “ such quaint people, and such odd food.”
And the oldest customer softly says “ damn copy-
hunters,” and goes home early.
THE DANGEROUS “POTTED PHRASE.”
LADY (to applicant for work): “But your
trousers are very shabby.”
T OURIST: “ Shabby pants is nothing, mum. They
often covers a warm heart.”
The Maori King, a huge ocean tramp
which lately left Sydney for Japanese ports, is
reputed to be a vessel with a hidden history. It
is alleged on bad authority that, when the late
Baltic fleet was on its erratic way from Russia to
its grave in Tsushima Strait, the Maori King was
a sort of pilot vessel, and, under a French captain,
led the way for the motley line of warships with
their peasant crews and ignorant commanders till
the fleet was well past Singapore, and any day
might bring the smoke from Jap funnels above
the horizon. Then it did an unobtrusive “get,”
and went back to its trade of tramping for freights
—so the bad authority says.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
“ Ageratum ” : Can anyone tell me why
catmittees always take charge of the morals of the
community? Once, in a rash moment, I was
cajoled into joining a branch of the Braille
Society, to convert books into Braille type for the
blind, and I went to a committee meeting. It
was mostly an ancient she-male and unmarried
committee, and its one aim seemed to be to
choose the good little book that ought to have
died, for the use of the Indignant Blind. But this
dav some frivolous and influential outside sub-
scriber had had the temerity to ask them to put
Dean Alford’s “Queen’s English” into Braille,
and they were suspicious about it. The secretary
said, “ I don’t know the book at all,” in a tone of
dark meaning. The rest of the committee said
“ No.” Then the outside subscriber produced a
copy and handed it round, and that catmittee
touched it gingerly, as though it would bite. One
of them even opened the cover, but shut it again
in a hurry, and the outside subscriber began to
look annoyed. At last, the secretary blurted out,
“But—is —it well—is it a nice book? Is it a
book—one could er well, have in the
house?” The owner seized the “Queen’s
English,” and walked to the door. “No,” she
said, sweetly, as she went out, “I scarcely think
it is. You would probably not understand it.”
* * * *
Wealthy Chinese in Australia have long
been accustomed to ship the remains of their dead
relatives to China. Handling dead Chow is not
a nice business for the undertaker, and had to be
paid for heavily, and the coffin-gear necessary, and
the freight, were also expensive items ; so recently
the Chows have made an offer to some of the Vic.
Benevolent Asylums to pay the railway fares of
aged Chinese inmates to Melbourne whence they
are shipped in a job lot as live freight to China.
Of course the Asylums jumped at the offer, and
John is pleased, too, at making a good deal.
* * * *
Tommy Bent went fairly mad over the Mel-
bourne papers misreporting a song he squeaked
before a crowd of helpless newsboys the other night.
“My songs are not the songs of the ordinary
music hall,” he said. “They are the pqetry of
the days when Shakspeare was the favorite poet
in the land.” Then he supplied the correct ver-
sion. Here it is :
Which goes to show that a fairly successful poli-
tician can be made of a man whose literary tastes
are not superior to those of a kanaka.
* * * *
The revenge of the great Powers is a fear-
some thing. Recently H.M.S. Prometheus pow-
wowed with the French cruiser Vaucluse to
discuss the best method of avenging three French
sailors, killed and eaten by Malekula natives
some months back. A joint expedition landed
and marched with great fierceness to the guilty
village. The chiefs were sternly ordered to pro-
duce the murderers ; the chiefs humbly promised
to produce them, went away, and stayed away.
Then the armed representatives of two great
Powers killed 30 pigs, and triumphantly returned.
* * * *
Archdeacon Oakes, of Kelso, who proposes
work for the unemployed on condition that they
should attend church on Sundays, merely repeats
the formula applying to ticket-of-leave men in the
convict days. The convict received his ticket
with the stipulation that he should attend church
on Sunday, and if the parson reported him for
non-attendance, the ticket was withdrawn and he
was sent back to the gang.
* * * *
A guaranteed cure for piles, itching, blind,
bleeding or protruding. Chemists refund money
if Pazo Ointment fails to cure any case, no
matter of how long standing, in 6 to 14 days.
First application gives ease and rest. 2s. 3d.*
Dear B.—Your remarks (21/6/’ot>) about
the preacher-man and his need of more-or-less sin-
ful relaxation fit the parson, who oughtn’t to be
one, to a hair, but don’t seem to suit the born sin-
shifter. The latter never goes to an island chasing
brown women—unless to “save” them and their
benighted brethren. He lives to preach. He is
twin-brother to the actor-man. The limelight is
an absolute necessity to both. Take the preacher
away from his mothers’ meetings and bun-scrim-
mages, his -anniversaries and Bible-classes, and
you banish him from what is dearer than life
itself. When a preacher leaves the church he
goes on the stage or the platform. Send him
(or the actor) where he cannot be seen or heard,
and you send him to purgatory. Rev. James,
the Biddy, is not a type ; he is the deception that
proves the rule.—L.O.
■K * * *
“Lil ” : The common cat ( Felis backyardi)
is a frequent habitue of the shops of grocers and
other tradesmen. I saw one reposing peacefully
in a bin of eggs the other day. The cat is allowed
to make herself offensively at home almost any-
where ; piles of bread are specially favored as
resting-places, and some produce vendors seem
to regret having to shift tabby as she reposes on
the bacon-cutting board and nestles up against
the cheese. It is “up to” the health authorities
to see that the animal is made to stay in its own
yard.
* * * *
The electric trams in Sydney brought bad
times amongst the cabs, and the all-night trams
struck another blow at them. The cabman who
used to scorn anything that was not gold after tram
hours has lost the run of those hours now.
You notice the result more in the country than
the city. Hansom cabs are appearing everywhere
—in Tam worth, for instance, there are 18 of
them ; and what business a cab can do in a town
of one short street is a mystery.
* * * *
Be “In Memoriam” notices: Observe
how often the most gushful sentiment goes
with the shrewdest of business methods. The
particularly sobful notice, introducing half-a-
dozen inches of bathetic home-made verse, nearly
always come from a drapery Crcesus, or afish-and-
chips capitalist, or a lady who has made a fortune
out of the Aunt Sally profession. A wail that
shows some attempt at restraint is usually paid
for by one who would do extremely well in busi-
ness if he or she could only be a little more gush-
ful. As for the benighted persons who don’t
advertise in the tearful columns at all when they
have a chance, they’ll never die rich.
TWO SOLILOQUIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She.
What do I in secret dream,
As beneath my lids I glance—
Deep my eyes as any stream ?
What do they in secret dream
As they through the lashes gleam ?—
That I’m your first love perchance.
No ; I more ambitious dream—
That I am your last romance.
He.
What is it I most regret
’Mongst the girls with whom I tarried?
Who, amongst the girls I met,
Who is she I most regret?
Can it be that I will fret
For that wicked one who harried,
Or that good one whom I let
Bore me—or the one I married ?
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROME.
A TRIO
m mK KLONC THE GP6-LIT STREET IN Pv TOWL
ROW.WIE THREE >
THE YJOriKN I WM KND THE WOH&N 1 KM, PND THE
WOHPvH I'LL ONE DKY RE.
All young men inclined to roam
Take my advice and stay at home ;
The boy that travels—make no fuss—
May further go and fare far wuss.
No Heart for Anything
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Up till five years ago I didn’t know what it
was to be even one day sick,” said Mrs. Fanny
Smith, who has a fruit and confectionery business
in Union-street, Adamstown, Newcastle. “Then,
little by little, my health started to break up.
My blood grew weaker and thinner, till at last it
was little better than water. In summer I was fit
for nothing. I could hardly drag my legs after
me. For two and three days together I had to lie
up in bed. The doctor treated me for nearly
twelve months, but I wasted away in spite of ail
he could do. I don’t know what would have
happened if it hadn’t been for Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People. I looked as if I
couldn’t live a month when a friend got me to
give them a fair trial. I started them just before
Christmas, and I didn’t leave them off till March.
By that time I didn’t have a single thing the
matter with me. My health was perfect, and it
has been perfect ever since. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills didn't merely build me up—but they cured
me for good.
“Before coming up here to Newcastle I had a
laundry business at Kirribilli Pt., North Sydney,”
said Mrs. Smith. “ That meant a lot of work
and a lot of worry —and the doctor said that work
and worry would be the death of me. I went to
bed tired, and I got up the same way next
morning. There wasn’t a bone in my body that
didn’t ache. Everything was a bother to me.
Some days my feet and legs ached till I simply
had to give in and rest. I was utterly down-
hearted, and never wanted to talk to anyone. I
tried hard to tight off my sickness, but it was no
use. Everyone noticed me going down hill. It
often took me the best part of a day to turn out
work that I used to do in half an-hour. My face
had a care-worn look, and not a scrap of color in
it. My lips turned almost white. Round my
eyes were heavy black rings. All my blood
seemed to be drying up. My hands were always
clammy, and my fingers stone-cold. I kept
taking the doctor s medicine, but I grew thinner
and weaker.
“ There seemed no hope of me ever getting
strong again,” Mrs. Smith added. “My appetite
got more and more faddy. Soon I could not fancy
my food at all. I found fault with the nicest
dinner. Whenever I did force anything down, it
turned sour, and made mo feel sick. But all I
could bring up wus wind and mouthfuls of
horrible bitter water, every now and then. My
tongue was horribly dirty. Every morning I got
up with a taste like brass in my mouth. I was
so miserable that I didn’t care whether 1 lived or
died. .
“ Month after month, I was gettiner weaker.
It was as much as I could do to stand with the
dragging pain in my back. Often my head felt
as if it would burst. There were days when I
could hardly keep my eyes open with the pain
across my forehead. Even when I went to bed
my temples kept throbbing. It was seldom that
I ever slept well. For hours I twisted and turned
from one side to another. Many a time it was
daylight before I dozed off. 1 got up as limp as a
rag, and I simply could not shake off an utter
down-hearted feeling. All day long I was
nervous. If a knock came to the door, I felt it
was some bad news for me. I used to work myself
up to an awful pitch. A cold sweat broke out on
me, and a horrible dread of death came over me.
It was all I could do to keep from fainting.
“When the doctor’s medicines failed to cure
me, 1 got all sorts of mixtures from the chemist,
but they did me no good,” Mrs. Smith went on.
“ I didn’t know what to do for the best when a
friend brought me some Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
for Pale People, and begged me to give them a
good trial. When I had been taking them for a
couple of weeks everyone said how much better I
was looking. Certainly, I was eating three times
as much. When I was doing so 'yell I said I
wouldn’t leave off Dr. Williams Pink Pills till
they cured me —even if I had to take them for a
year. For fear of missing a dose I used to carry
a box about with me, no matter where I went.
Gradually the color came back to my cheeks, and
my lips got a healthy red. The headaches mm
backaches eased up. My nerves grew steady,
and I started to sleep well at night. Every
morning I got up full of life and ready for my
day’s work. Since the time I left off Dr. Williams
Pink Pills I have never fainted once—my heart is
now sound and strong.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured Mrs. Smith by
going down to the root of the trouble in the blood.
That is why they never fail. Bad blood is the
cause of all common diseases like anaemia (blood-
lessness), eczema, paleness, headaches, neuralgia,
sciatica, rheumatism, lumbago, general weakness
and the special ailments that only women-folk
know. Bad blood is the one cause—and Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are the one cure, because
they actually make new blood. They do just that
one thing but they do it well. They don’t bother
with mere symptoms. They don’t cure for a day
they cure for good. But, of course, you must
get the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for
Pale People—in wooden boxes—never in glass,
bottles. Price 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.—
from retailers, or, post free, from the Dr. Williams
Medicine Co., Sydney.*
One well-known N.S. Wales man takes
the precaution of having two signatures at his
bank—one his sober signature, and the other his
boozy hieroglyphic.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
“ Pi " S '- SVDNEV APPLIANCES, Ltd. « Little Cities St, 7biboZb
B?rfcßCV Portia'i S st EEU TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROBEY Portable Engines,. Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds Vertical w
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE poor u Hor,zo " tal Engines, &c., & c *’ Vert,cal a "<*
SCOTCH WJREROPEy Dips, Pearn-s Pumps, Mining Recites, &c, &c
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER, M « n a e ,„ e Dlreotor :
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
B
SinSt ‘i“‘„M 0 “," i " *“ »»en non"
s3£3” ss
a*® *» —-s tSjssaa.rss?
“®s* ll !"°, s , 1 entirely, the State may be going into debt
provided oufc t of a p„ e r Ver / 0r the lhinffs that should only be
That > “**>". is -hat
° ne way t 0 reasonably secure
1 u-l??, > n State hnance, and that is by borrowing abso-
lutely nothing-, except for renewal purposes and ireftin<>-
A o 877 T« 1 P v are paKi for out of account
t 1 J“". a V /a ' As long- as it continues to borrow and a
s f ule *‘ can get kudus (which is Greek for office and
pay) for having a surplus, he will be tempted to fake a
out P of loans mstefd f nf r tH f e f reviousl .V-mentioned teapot
NSW Zd i fim • ! °f revenue. From the moment
oo ltS f lsC vlsl t to the pawnshop down to June
for K Loan Acts" a, d'h ° f £80 > 680 > 814 had been provided
01 n.v uoan Acts , and here are some totals
Public buildings and sites .. £3 971 074
Bridges .... ” ,
Roads .. ”
Punts .. '' iv’oco
Immigration ” " " r H’ B | 2
Lighthouses .. .. " "
And on top of that are millions spent on harbor and river
*. * * *
nrnfitfhi f °t ei f n f x ®J ia . n ff e business used to be very
profitable to Australian banks, until some Anglo-Austra
the bursting of^the *l'™ undercufc «*em, which led to
tne Dursting of the banks agreement as to rates When
general manager Li bits, of the Commercial of Svdnev
was in England recently he tried to fix up a new an •%’
ment, arguing that it was wasn’t worth while the banks
cutting their own throats because outsiders were runtime-
awa-y \vith a small percentage of the business- hut h?
w d ° mth , in t\ VVhen Russell French, of the Bank of
N.S.W., reached London he also set to work and it
appears, got the Bank of Australasia (which was the firsf
to "consent f to" ‘ he n former agreement)and the Union
t 0 , new understanding. The whole
thing was then reckoned as good as done and fhp
to have"beeiF announced
headquarters in Melbourne declined to come in ° f„d oV
time of writing the matter is again hung up. ’
The Bank of New Zealand (Maoriland)
Old Losses Paid Interest
and towards on
Colonial Loss of Money Divi-
p Purchase fiffi
Mar., C Crd “"'•
im £ lsS - *s%*&% -
1898 182,532 £10,132 74,900 97’5m “ |3,474
1899 191,420 43,920 50,000 97 500 Z
242,520 95.020 50,000 97’500 os’im
1901 300,242 160,605 50,000 89 577 9 .>’. 7 ,
1902 289,502 37,001 151 135 80 000 H' J-t
1904 293’316 Zo’ 410 80,000 2l)l80 23^474
J.9U4 293,316 12,500 179,022 80 000 91 281
1905 320,909 15,001 206,’312 51,978 47 618 23 987
19 n Z~; on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£19,910) 43,897
1906 330,33 0 16,001 224,329 40,000 50,000 43 897
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£37,397) 81’294
Z h . e - h ,°' e po o ti0 r cannot be set out because the report
° ; assets Realisation Board has not yet been issued
Still, probably almost as much is available now as will hn
available tilt the end of the year. When the bank !
hnr.ko° furt , her "* 1895 property worth £2,680,285 on the
books was handed over to the Assets Realisation Board
£Bsn™n°nn r r y, i ?t “‘“““ted, would show a loss of
£850,000 on realisation. In return for this £2 9«p; in
lame ducks which it handed over,
amount on guaranteed debentures at 3* per cent? and
hoarder) mnV e ‘ eVed Z 8 lanle dueKS > had to pay the
0,000 a 3 ear, and whatever more profits it made
over and above 5 per cent, on its capital Instead of
paying £5O 000 ayear the bank has, however, prospered
fc»o much that in the past live years £935 90s hn«
been available - more, ‘that is, the whole de
ficit was originally estimated at. As they have
?he II H i l "’ . fchese Prefix have been used to redeem
the debentures—which was the formal way of writing
down the value of the assets. As properties were sold
more debentures were redeemed. There remained after
exhausting the profits for last year, £851,671 of deben-
Ssvriued d a?£8 e 9i : B22 d Tf ai,lBt ZZ there were ,let
surulus of £4O v^ 8 i ThlS - ould > therefore, show a
surplus of £40,151. Twelve months a<ro the Assets RnnvH
estimated that a further £158,822 would thtn cover its
surplus of" ffo 4 ’ff « aS n" Ce been “ lade available, the
the mark Tht “ apptar to he well within
tne mark. ihe law provides that, when ihin.ro
“ff t 0 be s fi« are . the bank’can take ovfr
the whole business, and, go ahead as if nothing liad
happened; and the necessary certificate is nowVhig
£sm*non P fn d r, Ca f Pltal of * he B N - Z - now consists of
‘in pr , e i erence . shares held by the State, and
£500,000 in ordinary shares of £6 13s. 4d paid to
£3 6s. Bd. ; and there is outstanding an issue of 4 per cent!
Government stock. The preference shares carry a first 5
per cent. ; after that 1 per cent, for every 2 per cent, the
ordinaries get, but stopping at 10 per cent. Take the
Wlth *•*
Interest on Debentures.. .. £4O 000
Written off .. .. ' ‘ 15000
10 per cent, for Pref. Shares .. 50 000
15 per cent, for Ordinaries . 75*000
Eeserves 150,330
Total .. £330 330
A distribution, therefore, of 10 and 15 per cent would
leave more for reserves than would be paid out in divi-
dends, even if the amount here proposed to be written Off
for depreciation, &c„ were doubled! If the balance of the
money d ue on ordinary shares were called up, the position
would be still further improved from the ordinary share-
holders point of view. J
Some further comparisons :
Mar., 'O5. Mar., 'O6.
Notes in Circ. .. £784,171 £876,253 Inc £99 089
Bills in Giro. .. 1,022,405 1,662 861 Ine.
Deposits .. 12,190,647 12,420,276 Inc. 229 629
Liquid Assets .. 7,343,232 7,928,850 Inc 585 618
A. R. Debentures 1,382,500 1,025,000 Dec. 357’500
Advances .. 7,216,577 8,028,107 Inc. 811 530
Premises, &c. .. 400,093 325,770 Dec 74 323
is an S to fc ! l ® reserves shown in the first table, there
liabnirils” 6 rn" 1 fluctuation reserve which with “other
funds An 7 ra he ,u Co,lvenlent sink '"to which provident
We ’ rednnHnn hr0 "’ n_no ' v amounts t 0 £103,215. The
to rteVrf ,n P ren »ses, &c., account is due
NZ h Ltar Pa PP n aran 7 e ° f an old “Bank of
were lame dnnUc oo- ; K As i et ? in liquidation.” These
either not handed over to the Board, but now
stood at £62 « d i °o Vn^ nothin - or sold ‘ the item
niana£>-pmpt^“A B30 j ? bls seems to suggest that, if the
look P L! e cared, it could have made the year’s profits
fact that no°i re than they are in spite of the
(deposits Wi. th h n if- Per ® ent of fche Pfhlic moneys
* # # ji
The Bank of Nokth Queensland
Dividends Added to Re-
June ’Ol 01 and Div ’ - Tax - Reserves, serves.
Dec ’ ’ol'' 2* per cent. = £1313 £llll £11,860
June ’0‘ J 2038 ll ” ” 1813 1223 13 083
Dec ’O2" 90X7 of ” » 1313 725 13,808
June ’O3" fffo 2 f » » 13 13 1374 15,182
SS I ;; gg »
Sts- sg a ;; ” i3is « So«
£° 1 3S s as
the’best'o” t’ ° f Ul f“’ V b ” anch ® s hafan up-hill fi|hwt
slmre of tronhlp : b, V hiB ? ne has had more than its
and S ar^edfa
rjs
amount- Set out afresh without any great
amount of old sins not blotted out; and though its re
been held e bv »eo,!i’ th f bulk of its «*»»» have apparently
uten Held by people who are willing to wait In the nist
five years, therefore, while £13,172 has been „aid in divs
and tax, no less than £10,355, or over 44 per cent, of the
with North’o,f b T J n d by ’ No dollb '- m connection
?ud" iiw e hv S fh° kn ° W 11 ’ and s 0 tlle stock market which,
f>ectinh,n y p fch i c ? urseof this bank’s shares, has been ex-
pecting an early increased dividend, will be disappointed
ttons at a and lay fiWZdi
present & 1“® 5 and lfc evidentl .V intends using the
lav finLl r b J p ba,,k,ng conditions in Queensland to
y nci foundations. The disclosed profits for four
reserves WO, lt ° Ut aS f ° lloWS on the of capital and
June 1903 " u l P ’°‘ ? eC ’’ 1004 2 0 p.c.
Dec 1903 " fan” 3 u '.e, 1905 .. 316 0 ~
7 f yu ** •• 4 3 0 , Dec., 1905 * i« n
June, 1904.. 316 11 ~ June, 1906.! 4 14”
The portion otherwise compares with that of 12 months
-pv . June, ’O5. June, ’O6
-s' aras
••• SB S® £ SB
The shareholders’ inter J^ e baK elual to’an
unusually large 81 per cent, of all advances, premises and
veS ample aS L e cu!fv ll e t 0 B !‘ ri * ,k = a “ d ‘hat looks
veiy ample secunty for depositors. From the sharp
projortionof nubl'iP w f bowev : e, \ lhe comparatively small
p P t oil or public money in the business means snnll
opportumty to make profits out of the public’s monev
dl epositor and the shareholder have very different
interests m this matter-whieh the depositor anvwav
whlTis good for r thp Se h ; h f P,T tty oa '" assumes that
\\nat is good tor the shareholder must be good for thp
profits whe n ß h U e fc ’has I;™I®’ 1 ®’ th f shareholder can make most
frnm tt.a ~h af the use of most public money ; while
r „°. Dllhe depositor’s point of view, the larger thedeuosits
and the smaller the proportion of shareholders’ capital
conies tiere w a n s k B P to , Pay de ' Josifcs when a catastToS
comes, lhere was scarely a more wildly-run bank in all
vpf® whan tbaa t ! le North Queensland in its early years ■
booi.7 h it was S ahip^ P Shop llke the otbers at fche e,3 ‘ d of the
Doom, it was able to square up almost immediately with
its depositors by reason of the large proportion of share
dowt1 rS The'Nortb o® bus ' nes f,> and available for cutting
ua * e Queensland s liquid assets are eoual to
36 per cent, of its liabilities to the public. A large bank
would probably be safe with less ; it is not any too much
Wh ' oh «“>»«ONSi/lt, CU,
* ♦
Q.N. Bank stands a very good chance of ex-
demand for once-despised Q.N. shares ” * h
* * * ,
llonegen quotes his case and savs it is
typical: Two years ago I insured my life for £5O and
n P n ? f ° Ur u' eeks ago regularly paid 9d? per week as
prennum. Being now four weeks in arrears, the agents
tell me that my policy must lapse. Good But mv
policy is dated 2nd May, 1904. I signed the^ y
3^’ 04and P aid 3s. down (four weeks’ prenimiiis) The
agent four w-eeks afterwards collected 3s. more and gave
me a ticket to take to a doctor. Saw the doctor
passed ; but it was two weeks more before I was given
my acceptance. Therefore, as the eo. takes no risk "until
the policy is issued, and as no policy was issued for at
east seven weeks, although J it dates back
to date of signing proposal, I want to know what
became of the premiums for the sever, weekS
during which I paid but was not Insured ”
The fact is, there is such keen competition for this indu’s
trial business, and the cost is usually so heavy that in
0 . offe faring benefits, offices are being driven
into saving themselves in all sorts of devious wavs •
t -te. the = XsVt ffSSSS
muclfniore tharf th'e^averao-'e^tinl^elapse^^etw o ''^ 6 '!? 1 ’
proposal and the issue of fhe As a
period is much more than counter-balanced by the W
weeks’ grace that the industrial insurer gets? Making
iWer tog e rabout lfw C P e e’k ifc > •“ P ° SSible f °‘ an
insurer co get nboiit 13 wee kB insurance for nothimr onr
of the 52 in a year—by taking out a new policy at the end
of the grace period instead of paying up arrears-n.n
vided he can get offices to take him on those terms
almost anVtermT r ® ady l ° take lndust ml risks on
(Mdbourte R ):- EES ’ Exbcutor « and Agency Co.
June 1900 P £397l 5 pie. = 6 £2250 £1721 £5717
r> A-D.& M. Bank shares written up 1400 6 817
Dec., 1900 3746 sp.c.= 2250 1496 s’?, I
June, 1901 2795 5 2950 ?’ 313
Dec., 1901 2783 5 ”, ” 9950 ™
June, 1902 2436 5 ’ 2250 °’ 3ol
Dec., 1902 3168 5„ „ 2250 Jis ,°>® 77
June, 1903 3699 7 3150 ?|q l?’f 95
Dec., 1903 3226 5 ” 9950 11 - 044
June, 1904 5352 5 ” ,’,’ 2250 3102
Dec., 1904 3332 5 2250 10S-f H’ 122
June, 1905 3768 5 99 7°, 2 16,204
Dec., 1905 5577 6 ” ” 2700 9877 F> 722
June, 1906 5466 6” ” 2700 2766 n™
In the half-year to December i S
Commissions .. D £9 m “Sit Jl Tf- ’ O6 -
Interest .. .. .. ’tin £10 ’ 3bo £ "°- 785
Expenses.. .. r 932
Profit on Funds p.c. " £714 9 m ,°A 8 }? .. s'9B® 5 ' 98 ®
Trust Estates .. .. 6,326,344 8,219°991 S DlV’lol
Expenses p.c. of Estates 3s. 6d. 2s. lod ’4 °i’od
The capital is £90,000, £65,000 of which is represented lw
preimses ; and for the part of the premises not usld in th'l
business, gross rents of £265 were received in the half
year. At only 3 per cent., the premises should retmn,'
on the book value, £1950 a year ; deduct £530 received as
rent, and the half-year’s proportion of the balance of
£14:10, plus rates, repairs, etc., must be added to the
expenses shown above to arrive at the true
position. But even then the expenses are low, and
the profits are excellent. At 2£ per cent, on the
corpus of an estate and 21 per cent, on the income, the
total commission, if the estate remains in the office for 10
years, is equal to 7s. per cent, per annum on the value of
the estate, provided the latter brings in 4 per cent,
income ; if it remains in the office 15 years, the two com-
missions together are worth ss. 4d. per cent, per annum ;
it zu years, 4s. 6d. per cent, per annum. Probably the
average estate is wound up well within 10 years, so that
tne commission exceeds 7s. per cent, per annum on the
alue of the estate; and the difference between that and
tne actual expenses shown above is substantial enough to
make most financial concerns’ mouths water.
* * * *
“Old Cove”: Touching the trustee business.
.Supposing I leave my daughter (1) a sum payable at her
y eai ' s hence, and (2) a further sum in trust
ni iE er i‘ 6 lme ’ ln eons,tl eration of the present personnel
of the directorate and shareholders of a trustee co., and
r„r P ,° rtl °: i their ca P‘ tal > called aild uncalled, bears
A n? 6 '? estat ? s ln trust > tlie first appears a fairly
extend But as t 0 the second, which may
the stind 20, f 3 °A Or even 50 - vears ' during which time
terim-eeL d % dll 'ectorate and shareholders may de-
ie i ratl r f capita! to value of estates ad-
doesumr an almost certainly vastly diminish, there
ters T n r thesecunty that one desires in such mat-
and in thill °- ?? growing business of the trustee cos.,
ou-l r til circumstances of that business, the State
fl) Limit r° ! n or , boUl of the following directions
above thU h L«.lnt end -° l certain Percentage, all profit
and Pinr.fMw 1 * to . form a fully secured reserve;
certim fiild ll ' e Ca|lUal of the cos. should bear a
cmirse to value of estates administered. Of
mi'dir i.m bta , te audlfc ," ould be a corollary. Further,
p,.ov de bv will'th ‘," yse /, (who heheve in a public trustee)
established ! tlle event ol a trustee office being
h ' tJ, er State or Uommonwealth Govern-
tru„a ““ «“
(Sydney)?-^"° PERATIVE W °° L AND PRODUCE Co.
Bonus Added
Feb., 18 99 Pr °“ tS - seat's.
.. 1900 -P«'7qq «* onj £2568 £2,745
April, 1901 320 8” ” 855 *oo° Hf?
June, 1902 2089 6„ , 1409 - mo
.. 1903 1625 6 1306 _
„ 904 2012 6,; ” 1335 - 677 J> 787
T,:: b - 9526 «::S! K sfs
conimissit, sht^Ve^oT
Serial bee^ TOd (and ifc hkely°to be)
nilnfe'n Profits 1S due to a much larger turn-over with
rather stHkffi°g!l oreaSe in 6Xpenses ’ The movement is
Commissions, &c. .. £u% s £ n% 7 £ ]f^ 7 ± 1906 -
Working expenses .. 9,’623 9 444 8439 I’ fd
Expenses p.c. of corns. 84-8 si-8 04T ts'-g
SS ! r E ~"««“
out e ebr'TT 1 haS - been used to w. C p°e
1 qaq fu ie aeDt on the premises. At June ‘io
1903, there was a mortgage of £15,000 on the buildino-’
It now stands at only £2828. Meantime the l
ops
BJSRtS TSTAtI r‘7 K r
£BOOO net has been wiped off the co ’sllebt'Tml bout
operators will get the benefit of iMn tl, ? d the ,°°-
they will probably want a bonus much more thanthev do
in these days that are so good for the woollen d
t * * *
Sydney "Exchange Co.
H":-s :-tj ; p "“a,.
June, 1901 .. 498 7 ” ” ” ~~ 15,619
Dec 1901 i 910 v ” ” ” 1,050 ~ 15,067
June, 1902 !! ’7Ol 6 ” ” ” 1, qnn £169 15,236
Dec., 1902 ..1,174 6 ” ” 900 7 14 !M??
June, 1903 .. 837 6 000 274 i s > 3n
Dec., 1903 .. 1,395 6 ” ” ” qnn 15,248
June, 1904 .. 986 6 ” ’’ ” qnn ? 15,743
Dec., 1904 1 269 6 ’’ ” ” one 86 15 > s - 9
June 1905 ’lgl 6 ” ” ” S® 369 10 >19«
Dec., 1905 .. 1,069 6 ” ” ” qnn 16,179
June, 1906 .. 806 6 ” ” ” qnn 169 16,348
The Sydney Exchange Co. isn’t doing anythin" brilhant
in a financial vvay ; the amount it earns over and aW
its 6 per cent. ,s hardly more than enough to cover deni?
ciation on Exchange buildings of which £21 P 460
is represented by debentures). From this item ?ll’- 460
has been written off for many years R,,t All nothing
is doing some good work in o^ er ?ays 'it booms
great natural resources” by means of exhibits? 8 the
few months it is going to LTd anotLr ‘MeXi ?ith
oiir mineral wealth and industries allied therewith ”
W hat the industries are isn’t clear yet • probable thl'v
will be represented by placards, one of which whl sit out
that, on account of the Freetrade foolishness of most If
the members of the Exchange, N.S. VV doesn’t ,1?° '° f
iron or steel, and has no iron or step? l y
though it has almost the best coal suddlv in th? tUr f,i’
as well as excellent iron
out that, owing to the same tender regard „ -
formgner, the members, in their blindness hlve aTlol 'd
the whole zinc-smelting industry to diifr a P ,' ed
tralia, while most of the lead industry fcarHedonTn
Germany and Belgium • and fchp , arri . ea on ln
tioned Germany and Belgium, will probalJv lo ?^ lll *
members of their habit of breaking outlnto “ Rule Rri
tan,lla on the smallest provocation. Altofe Ler i
there are enough placards and e iomrh s r
them at that Mineral Exhibition, it ought to
streets! 16 Co,Uniotlon at fche corner of Pitt and Bridge
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
Dividends. Written Rp
Profits. Paid. Contrib. Off. serves
May, 1902.. £7,069 {«s£ « 361 £11 , 038
M=v„l»2.. ,2,000 {SJ: «•£*]. 210# , 5i929
May. 10.1 U j»S- m 6 u%m
Nov., 1903.. 11,812 / 10 P- C - 25 p.c. 1
’ 1 £2500 £2500 f 1953 19,153
May, 1904.. 10,450 J 20p.c. 50p.c. 1
’ I £5OOO £5OOO/ 2077 17,526
Nov., 1904.. 14,190 / 20 P- C - 40p.c. )
’ I £5OOO £5OOO f 2090 19,626
£5OOO share premiums added to reserve 94 62fi
May, 1905.. 14,894 { 20 25 p.c. , ’
) £7500 £3750 f 27J7 25,4^3
Nov., 1905.. 17,247 J 20p.c. 28£ p.c. I '
I £7500 £5OOO 3297 26,929
-May, 1906.. 16,918 -* 20 P;'r 25p.c. \
I £/500 £5OOO/ 2/,0//
There are 125,000 shares 50 non «t* u
to 108. The present d’ivfdMdon all^f 6 paidu P
usual, a call of 2s. is made nn K e eJl shares 18 25.; as
them to 18s. paid Aft" the?'?’ '?i ch ' vill
holders will be able to ha * f - 3ear the se
shares were only issued in 1808 • Vtxr Sol ?ething. These
at 6s. Bd. ; and Jow, out "f Sflts a& T’ ‘1 163 ' stood
up to 18s. In other words. n! alone - they stand paid
Perth public has provided the co® Jitif n* re ? learsI ears the
capital; and ha vino- provided thL th . a , bout £2B >°o° of
asked to pay 20 per S nl? 6 capitaI > jt wid now be
fine deal for theco" on l it ' It is a very
is another matter. Meantime nnlfu P ubbo comes in
been issued at a premium • hu^th ber 25,0 °?J hares have
gether, it has been T remarkL v Losn Paid Up> Alto '
which ought to con-ralfdate UseTfm-? P r rOU f COnc ? rn -
Most lighting- concerns have competition
SatWter*
Making between the two °d' y £4o4 ° froln
tional division of V! tw ° departments a propor-
gas undertaking shows a profitatThmTe ot Aft the
ns nt pe°rcenf' a " d the £
apparently a fairly liber a T? allovvances fo >' depreciation-
* *
tleSne, E Vit L Beewing and Malting Co. (Cas-
Net
June, Profits. Dividends Ad ded to Re-
Inqk ■Luviaenas. Reserves, serves.
1807" 4735 u l er = £4 °oo £655 £7,946
1808 " 4701 in ” » 4000 735 8,081
1899 " «457 in ” ” 4000 701 9,382
1900 " 6353 10 ” ” 4000 2457 31,839
1901 " 7107 in ” » 4000 2353 14 192
£lO 000 7 ofn » » 4000 3107 17,299
it x-50 Sfo erVe . S added t 0 Capital, making
1909 Ih a!| d reducing Reserves to 7,299
1903 " 6968 jo Per Cenfc> = 5000 1814 9,113
1904 " 6940 io ” ” 5000 4268 10.381
1905 " o!-?3 io ” ” 6000 4250 H 631
1906 " 674 f io ” ” 5000 4423 13 054
190 b .. 6741 10 „ 5000 1741 14 795
Furthermore
- - So So
Advane ld « 20 > 644 26,966 £25,010
StoXand plant " ." Jg , 19 ’« 74
BBf££ssr :• - * ■’
Ma~ d e i „ r f Proflt " 9 ’’ 223 8 ’ 849 iK
Management .. .. 2 ,870 2,426 3^553
V’ inc ! ude ! Provision for bad debts, which
tether nt dlstln guiBhed from the other items. Alto-
sheet* A f tt ‘ e ! uosfc satisfactory brewery balance-
sheets issued in Australia, mainly because it is a brewerv
taktn 0 over et t a K d doesri ’- t cover a vas 6 collection of pub!
debt to th kr° o,n P? ces - T he co. discloses now no
rent mufi' 0 ’ Wule , tbe P l,bli c’s debts to it, on cur-
fn the hnnP h haVe « eadlly shrunk—and money lodged
the PaV - off an ( overdraft is better money than
hm of thn^t k ° Wln " , by sundry debtors.” The shrink-
-3 dihtVf m ? y also suggest that the provision for
rini am n e_ln words > that the disclosed
liniV oa ' °" ca P‘ tal and reserves profits show
reserves'that can do th^ 6 '' 6 18 n ° thi " g visionary about
t h’ SHIX - G . Soul, Pattinson, and Co.,
dd., di uggists, &c. (Sydney):
Added Nominal
B to Re- Re-
Ano- iqoa Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Woif' ioof " 10 p.c.= £6,000 £1.9] 2
Feb., 1905 .. £6,143 10 ~ ~ 6,000 £143 2 055
Aug.. 1905 .. 5,959 10 „,, 6,000 2 014
Feb., 1906 .. 7,124 10 ” ” 6,000 1,124 JsB
Jnn«Ut Se r eS a / e descr 'hed as nominal, because the assets
consist, in part, of patent rights, which are only paper
J t y P ™ fltable pa P er the time befng!
hind P 3 nnH n 6 V n the bala ™e-s b eet is “Stocks on
nand, plant and fixtures, patent rights, &c.a miscel-
laneous assortment now valued at £85,84], and repre-
written “off t 'i'h :thil ' dS of , the ca P ital - The amount
tion n 5 a- hl l V T y ? r^e item for deprecia-
tion is not disclosed; all that is said is that
q due Provision ” has been made: signed “ John
See the'besf' f l-' 1 ev ,f. n al *owing chairman John
See the best of intentions, his persona] knowledge of the
d p /- at r 0f ’Pecacuanha may be doubted. In a business
4b . ls c a , n enormous amount depends on whether
« 1S charged for depreciation, etc. If it isn’t
then the profits are fictitious. And in the present case
there is not a great deal left over after paying the dh£
1 and posslble over-valuations ; on the other
ba " d > of course under-valuations are quite possible
though not as probable. It is the sort of investment in
connection with which one needs to size up the manage-
ment quite as much as the published figures. b
* * ■« *
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Mar., Profit. Dividends. *&*"££* sen'es
1901 " £ 4608 3 IP ' C ' =£ Q97 £1336 £2137 £15.750
1902 " 7955 o ” » 927 - 3681 19 431
" Tni 3 ” ” 927 ~ 6328 25,759
1903 .. 629 Nil _ _ 25130
Profit. 25 ’ 430
1904 .. 2061 Nil _ OA6I ovini
Ohio XT*l 2/, 191
1906 " 9511 S oa Nll 0.0 ~ 2048 29,209
1906 .. 3511 2} p.c. = 843 2668 31,877
" e , l . true profits nor true reserves are as much as
tins. Of the reserves £8166 is Replacement and Repara-
tion f, Un i d ’ i and ° f H' e profits £IIU has b een added to
writim/'uf f Ur 'i" g th . e year - This amount is really a
writing-off for depreciation, and, though called a reserve
£0 min i be ava * lab4e 4or distribution. Anothe;
of the reserves is “Assets Contingency Fund ”
and the real character of that is also doubtful
When the old bar-parlor chair is re-upholstered, the cost
of the new upholstery is added to the former value and
thus it appears in the balance-sheet; and assets which
are reckoned up on that basis have a good many eontin-
Km ProVlded for ' The freebold (book value,
£103,289) now carries a mortgage of £61,000. The load is
£67 n ?nn hg ' ooi n ? d ;at March 31st, 1900, it was
£67,500. Still in 1901 interest only absorbed £2041, while
last year it took £2488. Excluding the £llll previously
mentioned, the profits show £7 16s. per cent, on capital
alone ; and that looks satisfactory. But it is an erratic
business, and depends a good deal upon the price of pro-
visions. The guest eats just as much for breakfast when
eggs are 3d. each as when they are two a penny and it
scale" tSeem practicable to run the tariff on a’sliding
* > » ,
Westralian gold output is still on the down
grade, figures for June being 143,2590 z. against 155 150 oz
3 “ ne > 490 ?- Output for first half of the year was
9,,4>86. loz - against 965,3740 z. for the same period of 1905
The divs. have also suffered—£9B7,3so against £1 148 640*
There is no doubt that, until new finds a.re made' \V a
has passed its zenith. The outlook for the second ’half is
even less cheerful. In July last year £319,111 was paid in
divs., whereas this year only £210,437 has so far been
announced, and the only other probable July div is £97nn
from the Ida H. * is^/uu
*■* m *
Kalgoorlie mine managers who have reduced
costs have had so much glorification that men now
announce reduced costs even :f they have to throw truth
down to the bottom level in order to doit. Whenever
reduced costs are mentioned, look first to see if extraction
hasn’t been reduced too. Even that can be faked bv
reducing the size of the “tons”; so look next to see if
the tonnage has suddenly increased. In many oases you
won’t have to look for nothing.
* * * *
In Oroya-Brown Hill (W.A.), during the past
three years, directors’ fees and percentages have been
£6362, £14,800, and £14,800, or in all £35,962. As there
are six directors, they take £2OOO a j-ear apiece, which is
fairly good remuneration for men who sit on up to a
dozen different boards, and are mostly useless to put p
mine on its feet. With regard to the Oroya-Black Rangp
the same crew has allotted itself £l3OO a year fees, and
2i ptr cent, of net profits ! So they milk the one cow
twice.


flow to
Make
Your
So that it
win he
Carried
out
Of
■V
o
rj£
ipn
m
°*nf
%
4* A
%
?V/
r -*v
V/
M
/ THE
I'm
Appoint
CRPOUAL
■ IL
(LIMITED)
SPRING ST.. SYDNEY
Kalgoorlie shows some fine results with high-
priced labor. At South Kalgurli mining costs are down
to 4s. 6d., and for treatment 3s. 2d. ; total, is. 3d. per ton
of ore. Yet the total costs are 225. per ton ; so labor
costs are veiy little over one-third of the total. Part or
the other two-thirds is London expenses; and there is
room for a cut there.
» * * *
North End, Kalgoorlie, after an ignominious
and checkered career, has come to the end of its tether,
and co. is to be reconstructed The form of reconstruc-
tion is peculiar. In the old co. 190,000 shares were
issued ; against these 95,000 are to be given, fully paid.
Then holders of old scrip are offered 25,000 contributing,
with 2s. called up, or 25 for each 190 held. This would
bring up the capital to 120,000 shares. But subscribers
of these contributing shares are offered a bonus of six
paids for every contributing allotted, a total of 150,000,
thus bringing the capital of the new co. to 270,000 shares.
The co. has been muddled, and no balance-sheet is avail-
able. The registered office is noiv being transferred to
Perth ; but, unless better management is introduced, the
concern is hopeless. 00. is said to have produced £9OOO
worth of gold, but there is next to none in sight now.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia South, Leonora (W.A.), has
been closed down for three months, pending the issue of
10,000 reserve shares. The mine was fully equipped about
a year ago, since when the main shaft has been sunk to
320 ft., and a lot of opening up done. There are two lodes
on the property, which immediately adjoins the big
mine; but, although rich and promising at times, they
have proved patchy and disappointing. Co. is in 50,000
shares, of which 24,000 were issued fully paid, and 16,000
cons, are now fully paid to 10s. It is proposed to issue
the 10,000 reserve "shares to try and raise another £5OOO
working capital. Mine may yet prove payable, but its
proximity to the Gwalia means nothing, as that co. holds
611 acres, which is enough to take in everything.
* ■» « «
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) should be in full
sw’ing on its new mine, the Goodenough, before the end
of the month. Developments are being pushed on
at 100, 180 and 280 ft.
* » * *
Augusta, Laverton (W.A.), during June
crushed 350 tons for 5650 z. Present holders bought it for
£2OO in Nov., 1904, since when they have crushed 2550
tons for 48150 z. This mine was owned by the Menzies
Golden Rhine, and was abandoned as worked out after
producing some very rich returns above 300 ft. The
ground then became very hard, and, without further
test, mine and plant were auctioned at rubbish prices.
Tailings are still untreated ; yet profits to date are in the
neighborhood of £12,000, most of which has been spent in
fully equipping the mine. An adjoining property, the
British Flag, once held by' Dr Laver, and sold by him to
a Bull co., is again being run by the doctor. Sixteen
tons from the dump averaged 7£oz. per ton, and a
further parcel of 14 tons from the mine has returned
68Joz. What sort of managers were employed by Bull
eight to ten years ago ?
* * * »
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), can still
make a fair show on paper. True, its last half-year saw
it drift £4OO to the bad; but more than that was chargeable
to the drought in the early months. Workings show
nothing from which much can be expected ; but there are
more than expenses in view, and the co. has over £BOOO
up its sleeve. On a paid capital of £15,405, the Princess
has divided £116,000. But most of it was in ’O2 and ’O3 ;
the last three years have given only £12,000.
* * * *
The B.H. Prop, is rushing to increase its metal
output before the markets break. Preparations are
being made to work under the old fire-area in block 11;
and, among other things, the re-treatment plant at the
mill is being doubled, making its capacity 3000 tons a
week.
* * * *
The B.H. Proprietary’s ore body, though richer
in lead at 1200 ft. than at the upper levels, has pinched
considerably, and is now only about two sets wide. Still,
as a rule, these ore bodies are not continuous, but run
like a string of sausages.
-ft- * * *
The B.H. Central (Sulphide Corporation) is
making a big effort to recover itself. The main shaft is
being rushed down to 1000 ft., the intention being to have
everything triin and ready this side of Christmas. The
contractors are getting between £ll and £l2 a foot, and
work only six-hour shifts.
* # * *
B.H. Junction North shaft collapse obligingly
confined itself to a narrow strip at about 570 ft. The tim-
bers there are like matchwood, and one side has gone right
in and is leaning against the ocher. There is a cavity on
the broken side ; it is intended to fill this with mullock
and pack tight, and then sink through the broken portion
—a dangerous job.
* » * *
Opinion is gaining ground at Broken Hill that
Junction North, broken shaft and all, is too valuable to
be thrown in at the figure offered by the North
amalgamators. North’s northern ore body isn’t improv-
ing in size as it goes down ; and its southern and richer
body goes into the Junction North. Besides this,
the Junction North may possibly get the rich British
shoot in its lower levels.
* * * *
There seems little connection between B.H.
Junction mine developments and the recent jump in its
shares. A rumor was set going that it had sold its tail-
ings dumps. Directors wish they had. The big dump
(160,000 tons) is, however, reckoned too poor as yet.
Still there is a smaller dump of better stuff, and "the
slime dump holds about 40,000 tons. Then there are
8000 tons of zinc tailings, the residue from the treatment
plant, assaying about 18 p.c., and these last may be worth
as much as 6s. a ton.
* * * *
B.H. Block 10’s new winding engine is giving a
deal of trouble. This is one reason for present shortages
in mill output.
* * * *
The Consolidated, Broken Hill, was, in early
Barrier days, looked upon as about the best mine there-
abouts, bar the Proprietary. Zeb. Lane was in it, and
the Proprietary vainly offered him a good billet and some-
thingelse to letit in. Presently therewasa jumping case
and a Supreme Court action, and in the middle of it all the
bottom fell out of the boom, and nobody wanted the
Consolidated. Three years ago somebody else took up
the abandoned mine on the strength of a few
carbonate specimens, and the Consolidated got a
new lease of life. Men were put on bagging ore ; they
got it from an outcrop, and when that pinched out (which
didn’t take long) they bagged most of the stones for half-
a-mile .round ; and the new owner got a bill instead of a
cheque’ from the smelter. This led to the Consolidated
being again regarded coldly, until somebody else came in
with a barrow-load of trouble. Litigation started 12 months
ago, and has continued ever since. In the end all that hap-
pened was an order that the lease be thrown open on J uly 4
at 2 p.m. It was expected that the two opposing: parties
would be there to peg'. Only one party turned out, how-
ever, but it meant business. There were picktd pugilists
among' the crowd of 10, for it was expected there would be
a pitched battle at each peg'. The thing was done in
style. A referee—perfectly unbiassed—was appointed.
He gave the word to a youth with a gun, and as the
echoes of the explosion tumbled about amidst the sur-
rounding hills, they mingled with the sound of scraping
shovels and hammered pigs, and thus the “peggingout ”
was dramatically accomplished. A racing pony had been
provided to post in four miles to the courthouse and
lodge the application ; hut as there was no opponent, the
expected race was as big a disappointment as the hoped-
for fight. And now that the solitary applicant has got
the lease, he is probably w ondering why on earth he went
to all this trouble to get it.
•* * * *
Every little metal boom wakes the ghosts of
concerns that most people thought were decently buried
long ago. Back in ’99, or earlier, the Colonial Copper
Corporation was formed in London. It was just the sort
of poor little creature that the magnificence of the
name would suggest; and after wandering rather aim-
lessly over its 240 acres at Cow Flat (N.S.YV.) for not
quite two years, it gave in for want of breath. It just
had enough left to keep the office open in London, and it
has kept it open for five years. Now it is suggested that
the thing might be wound up, on the off-chance of some-
one being found who wants a copper show at Cow Flat.
But there isn’t much hope of a deal. Another English
co., the Lyndhurst, acquired the old Summer Hill near
there some time ago, and in 1903 spent money on it; but
the ore bodies were small, and tfie distance was great,
and the ore wasn’t what the Lyndhurst people wanted ;
and anybody who wants a mine at Cow Flat or there-
abouts can have that one also very cheap.
jp jp * #
George Lansell had a clear idea as to the value
of a mine. He also had an excellent knowledge of the
general public as gamblers. Hence, while in his will he
directed that all his real estate or residuary estate
should be sold, certain mines are to begot rid of by means
of a lottery, or lotteries, such as “ Tattereall’s,” to be run
in any country where lotteries are legal. Floating mines
is hard work, but raffling them would be easy. The
winners would have to shoulder the heavy work of flota-
tion. Think of some poor devil of a city clerk winning
the big Blue battery or the 180 mine. What an awful
joke to perpetrate by will 1
As expected, widow ,T. A. Wallace’s Stagorn
barge, at Allan’s Flat (Vic.), has closed down. Another
barge of hers at liow'd.v Flat has been let on tribute to some
Yackandandah people. Between his barge and bucket
dredge at the junction of Twist and Yackandandah
Creeks, Donald Fletcher has started a sluicing claim.
Years ago a reef was found there in an old pump shaft.
Thousands would be glad to see Fletcher, with his luck
and his pluck,turn fora whilefrom the nozzle and buckets
to the stamper.
* ■* » *
The Bulletin, the other day, got a note from a
man who seems to have a history. Part of the note is an
extract from the Melbourne Morning Herald of June 9,
1851, reporting that “ YVilliam Aberdeen, a licensed
haw'ker, on Thursday last camped near some ranges at
the other side of Dr. Ronald’s run, in the direction of the
Sydney-road, and picked up some grains of a shining sub-
stance, which he has since ascertained was gold.” That
was about the start of Castlemaine. This Bullbtin’s note
comes from the same YVilliam Aberdeen, who has stuck
to the district for 56 years. “The first dredge ever
started in Castlemaine district was on my ground ; there
are 30 round here now.” The ancient battler, who is now
87, lately carried out arrangements to set two more
dredges going, and reckons there is plenty more gold
waiting thereabouts.
« * * *
“R. 8.” on a field which even cautious Kidston
has decided ought to have railway connection straight
away :—“ Re Cloneurry (Q.). The work of the YVillcoeks-
cwm-Government parties (B. 7/7/’O6) does not represent
the efforts of the field to give itself ‘a fair run.’ The
Willcocks syndicate borrowed £2500 for 1 deep sinking ’;
and its deepest sink is little over 100 ft. Further, some of
the sinking is on the wrong side of the lodes. Meantime
Mt. Elliott prospecting shaft is down 180 ft., still in
oxidised ores, but sinking as hard as it can go. The ore
body is a bedded deposit in slate —showing on the surface
as silicious iron impregnated with glance, malachite, and
cuprite. The Hampden lode, alsoabeddeddeposit, has been
pig-rooted by tributors and pierced by shallow shafts and
costeens over a length of half a mile. Near surface
the copper occurs as seams of glance and cuprite in a
soft kaolinsed slate ; the deepest shaft (135 ft.) is full of
water, but the dump shows that the sink has reached the
sulphides, and A. E. Savage is said to have bulked the
sulphide values at 7’5 per cent, copper. Hampden is
a very big deposit, up to 200 ft. wide on surface; big
values and at) ideal smelting ore. C. S. Smith, one time
of the Vesuvius, is the new manager. Four new shafts are
now sinking, and should do something soon.
“The Cloneurry field is as big as that first known
as Cooigardie. There are big copper shows at Coolullah,
100 miles north of Cloneurry township : at YVest Leich-
hardt, 100 miles west; at Hampden and Mt. Elliott, re-
spectively 50 and 70 miles south ; and at Duchess and
Mt. Hope, 100 miles south-west. Between are the Duck
Creek and Malbon shows, the great stretch of country
known as the Oorella, and all the 30-year-old freeholds, in-
cluding the Argylla, which seems to be one of the best
of the bunch, and has never had a tap done on it by the
owners. Certain unauthorised persons have opened big
seams of red oxide at the western foot of the outcrop on
one of these freeholds, and have napped it ready for bag-
ging. Recently the owners of other freeholds wrote the
Government asking that the undeveloped ore should be
protected against possible thieves; but this was too
much, and Private Enterprise was advised to guard its
own property.
“Reported sale of the Duchess for £15,000 is
actual. Option in the first place was for three months
with £lO9O deposit, and half the time had gone before the
optioners’ manager arrived to develop. A month’s exten-
sion was granted on payment of a further £1000; and since
then (about 14th or 15th June) the balance of £13,000 has
been paid. YVhen I saw the show there were two shafts
sunk on the lode, 200 ft. from each other, and each about
60ft. deep. Midway between the shafts was an open cut,
60ft. long, Bft. wide, 10ft. deep, showing high-grade ore
wherever ground had been broken. At the bottom of
No. 2 shaft there was 2ft. 9in. of ore, probably worth 30 per
cent. There was no ore in the sink in No- 1 shaft, but it
was showing in the western end of the shaft, and drillings
showed it to be the same width and value as No. 2.
Alleged now that the lode has widened as the shafts
deepened, and that three other shafts sunk since I left
prove the shoot (so far as shafts prove the lateral con-
tinuity of a shoot) to be 600 ft. long. But that is not my
story.
“Near the Duchess is a line known as the I van-
hoe —apparently big and certainly continuous, and
showing good ore at intervals. This and the Pilgrim line
to the south were optioned by Moffatt and Linedale, who
also have an option over the YY’allaroo, YVee Macgregor,
Central, and YY’aratah, 10 miles south of Corella Springs.
The YVee Macgregor and Central are big and rich pro-
positions superficially ; but not a tap has ever been done
on them. The development syndicate which has taken
over the lot will get a good run for its money.
“The Orr-Schlapp syndicate has a good pros-
pect in the Mt. Hope shows. Very big quartz out-
crops, 40ft. high, and lialf-a-mile or so long. Eastern
side of these outcrops opened by prospectors (who were
all stockmen once, and now sneer bitterly at bullock)
yielded fine bunchy makes of red oxide and native copper
—bagging quality with a little dressing. The optioners
are sinking prospecting shafts in country, from which to
crosscut both outcrops.
“Commissioner Thallon says he can build the
Richmond-Cloncurry line at the rate of three miles a
week, which rate would send the loco, into Scotty YVere’s
bar within 60 weeks. Sleeper supply seems to be the
only thing likely to prevent the fulfilment of this esti-
mate. For 170 miles there is practically no grading to he
done, and only one bridge to build —that at the Gilliatt,
and unimportant, anyhow.”
* * * *
Peak Downs copper mine (Central Q.), now
taken in hand by a Brisbane co., has an interesting
history. Discovered by a wood-cutter, in the early ’,6o’s,
it was floated in Sydney into a £lOO,OOO co., unlimited
liability. One-third was subscribed capital ; rest went to
vendors. Capital being exhausted, there was a further
issue of shares. Mine was apparently developed down
to 180 ft. Smelting started 1864. in 1866 half-a-
dozen furnaces were going. Blister copper was pro-
dueed, teams took it to Rockhampton, over 250 miles dis-
tant ; then it was shipped for realisation. Dividends
amounted to £215,250. in the best .rear £lOO,OOO was
paid. But that £lOO,OOO was paid out of advances against
copper shipments. Transport was then slow, copper
slumped (the metal is still capable of that), shipments did
not realise advances, and the co. found itself heavily in
debt to its banker. It paid off the liability by ripping out
all the rich stuff; meantime exploration stopped, and
naturally liquidation followed. Still £63,000 was re-
turned to shareholders ; the mine was practically aban-
doned, being sold for what it would fetch. Then a small
co. was formed to take it on, and the small co., facing a
gutted mine, burst. All of this points to the Peak Downs
as a proposition of some possibilities ; and, now that the
railway is practically at its door, developments should
be worth watching.
If the records of Peak Downs are moderately
reliable, it is evident either that even 40 years ago there
were some boodling mining men and metallurgists about
who knew their business, or that the property was a
fabulously rich one and easily stood some knocking about.
If the copper market keeps up, the Brisbane co. which
now has the property—The Peak Downs Freehold Copper
and Coal Co., Ltd. —will probably be able to decide
which was the case. How much more it will be
able to do, one cannot say at present; but the
probabilities are that, unless it is very spry in
opening up, it will discover, just as a slump sets in, that
the old original co. left it only a lot of dead work and poor
ore. It may, however, be otherwise (a few old copper
shows are otherwise), and for this reason : J. T. Coates,
the new manager, has discovered that there are some good
values in the furnace-bottoms of the old smelters. He re-
ports that there are from 50 to 100 tons of bricks replaced
by matte, going as high as 27 per cent, copper, with
assays yet to come for precious metals. If in the days of
no railway the old co. was capable of leaving this behind,
question arises whether some ore was not also left behind ?
The thing looks attractive, and were the proposition in
hustling, experienced hands, would not be a bad gamble ;
but controlled by mournful Brisbane, it will probably
arrive too late. Coates, the manager, was one of mine-
manager Seale’s Mt. Morgan subordinates. All circs,
considered, his task is not light.
• * * *
Central Queensland is feeling better. On top
of the good seasons in the West, mild booms are being
developed in copper, and Glassford Creek, Mt.
Hector, and Mt. Cannindah are used as an ex-
cuse to bring in a number of wildcat absurdities.
More money is reported to be available for exploit-
ing the coal deposits, and Willeoeks is said to be
taking a fist in this. (At latest advices Willeoeks was in
the North, seeing about putting the diamond drills
through Mt. Garnet. Nothing seems to come of this as a
zinc proposition, by the way.) The Orient Co. is reported
to have purchased wharfage sites at Gladstone, while the
P. and O. Co. is investigating Rockhampton in the inter-
ests of its cargo steamers. That Gladstone is a neglected
port is mainly the fault of Gladstone. It stupidly allowed
the Glassford Creek traffic to go to Miriam Vale, whence
Thallon’s railway takes the lot to Brisbane for oversea
shipment there. Said Glassford Creek traffic is for Glass-
ford Creek Co. not a very wholesome thing, and before it
or Mt. Hector or Mt. Cannindah can develop into big
things, a branch railway must go down.
•» * * •
The harnessing of the Barron Falls, N.Q., is
again before the State Government. An Australian
company is negotiating for the right. Kidston says that
the public will be well safeguarded according to the offer
under consideration. The scenic features of the attractive
spot will not in any way be affected. The proposal is to
sink a deep shaft at the top of the falls, and the water
tumbling on to a fan at the bottom will drive machinery
for the generation of electric power. The power will be
cabled to Cairns, where it is proposed to use it for driving
ore-treating machinery on a large scale. Some years ago
the Chillagoe Co. asked for somewhat similar concessions,
but the House didn’t like the way the co. put it.
* * » *
Announced at the formal meeting of the Kauri
Timber Co. (Melbourne) that the co. would this month
wipe out £36,000 of debentures instead of the required
£13,700. Thereupon it is mentioned that “ the position
of the co. has much improved of late. The co. has paid
£23,400, or 4 per cent., regularly for some years, and it is
evident that the outlook is now favorable.” Quite true
that 4 per cent, has been paid ; but in order to do that
the net visible deficit has been increased from £171,800 in
1903 to £189,145 in 1905—that is, after writing off such
amounts from forests, etc., as the directors think proper.
Last year the co. made £23,065 ; the directors then wrote
off for depreciation £lO,OOO, leaving only £13,065 net out
of which to pay the dividend (£23,400). Either the
amount written off by the directors was ridiculously
excessive, or half of the 4 per cent, was paid not out of
profits but out of assets.
D. G. McFie, the manager of the Roper River
(N.T.) Concessions Syndicate, is a Scotchman with great
faith in the future of Australia. The syndicate has
secured a tract of four million acres of the Territory,
having a frontage of 50 miles to the Gulf, and is to settle
a large number of Scotch farmers up there. Rubber is
to be cultivated extensively. A Melbourne syndicate
has been given a right to carry on prospecting over the
whole of this enormous area. The manager of the colony
is to be Mr. Alfred Giles, w ell-known in pastoral circles.
Although the land is to be put under the control of
Scotch farmers, Italians are to supply the labor. Apart
from the wisdom of the S.A. Government allowing so
much country to pass into the hands of a syndicate,
the experiment will be of interest as showing w'hether
white men cannot live and work hard in the Territory.
McFie says that there is plenty of money available in
England and Scotland for enterprises in Australia which
are not over-capitalised, and he ought to be a judge.
“ The comments adverse to Australian legislation in Eng-
land,” he says, “ are made chiefly by Australians of certain
political brands, who sit in the clubs and say that Aus-
tralia is going to the devil. The question of greatest
interest to England is to know whether the States are
paying their way or not.”:
• * * x
Apparently the Melbourne tram monopoly be-
gins to hear something coming. It lately reduced two more
lines—Richmond and Victoria-street—to 2d. fares for the
whole distance. But, presumably with a view to averring
that there w'as no increased traffic through the reduc-
tion, it quite omitted to advertise the change, and thus
lost some kudos. But a lot of representative citizens
kept on paying the same old 3d. till they learnt that
others had been stumping up only 2d. for a fortnight or
so ; then they wrote to the papers in a great rage and
anathematised the company heavily; so the octopus got
the publicity without the advertisement.
# * * *
“Quidam”: Will somebody kindly invent a
cheaper process for handling tailings for cyaniding—for
small plants? Anything over 4s. sand (excepting refrac-
tory and untreatable tack) is rapidly becoming unobtain-
able. And the working of small heaps of 3s. or 3s. 6d.
stuff on a profitable basis, though not absolutely impos-
sible, is nearly a fine art. So far, at any rate on small
heaps, where "costly systems of tramlines and trucks are
impossible, the prosaic horse and dray appears to be the
cheapest method of shifting tailings ; but the irreducible
minimum value below’ which this system cannot go is
rapidly being arrived at. The development of some
system of handling which would save even 3d. a ton over
the horse and dray, and at the same time be cheap enough
to instal on small plants, would bring into profitable use
an enormous number of sand heaps which are at present
just too poor to be of any service to anyone. When
handling, chemicals, supervision, smelting, and at any
rate part of initial cost of plant have to be supported by
(say) 3s. a ton stuff, it is obvious that there is not much
money to burn.
.** * *
“ H.” : While there has been .much gaudy adver-
tisement about the progress of the Mount Sienna pigment
mine, near Adelaide, the Australians who support the
industry had better study the mystery of the deposits at
Black Flats (Vic.), only ten miles from Melbourne. The
Black Flats deposits comprise, in an area of a few hun-
dred vards, pigments of every color in commercial use.
Further, they mix freely with oil, and experiments prove
that the paint manufactured from them is as durable and
effective as the best imported. There are in the Vic.
Mines Department a numher of planks painted three
years ago with this material, and not the most delicate
tint shows the slightest sign .of fading. In the open air
the Black Flats paint proved its wearing qualities, and it
was estimated that a marketable article could be turned
out much cheaper than the imported . paints. If ever
there seemed to be a good proposition for Australian
capital and energy it was the Black Flats pigment
deposits ; yet to-day it is impossible to buy a pound of
the paint in the market.
Australia doesn’t seem to realise what money
there is in Pig. Minister Swinburne pointed out to Vic-
torian farmers the other day that the Yankee receives
£25,000,000 a a ear for exported Pig (at least, it’s mostly
pig, though some of it is wood, and some of it is man),
and the Dane £5,500,000. Britain eats £21,000,000 worth
of bacon in a year, and Canada helps to supply it by send-
ing away 1,250,000 cwt. of hog and sow annually. Don’t
despise Pig. #
The proposal of S. J. Mitchell, who represents
the Northern Territory in S.A. Parliament, to enforce the
carrying out of labor'conditions on N.T. mining claims
by European labor, where obtainable, is finding plenty of
backing among the white men on the spot. West Arm
and Horseshoe tinfield claim-holders and miners have
strengthened Mitchell’s hands by sending along forceful
resolutions passed at local meetings. For 30 years S.
Australia has let the yellow pig-rooter have the run of
the fields; and the N.T. is no forrarder. In fact, it is
the most backward part of Australia. If yellow labor
that is supposed to be cheap, but isn't, cannot prove its
virtues in 30 years, it seems a fair thing to assume that it
hasn’t any virtues to prove, and is simply hanging on, on
the strength of its vices.
• * * *
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the general use of “Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill mines use them extensively. The
managers favor these drills for their great strength and
simplicity having only one working part; also for
economy in air consumption as they require only about
25ft. free air per minute. Miners prefer them, as work is
made much easier; for tributors, “Wonder” drills are
the means of bringing in larger returns. Messrs. W. and
J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, have de-
scriptive catalogues for those interested, and attention
is drawn to an exceedingly simple and ingenious paten*
water attachment for allaying dust.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894.
» * * *
Electric haulage is one of the best paying in-
vestments for every mine in which the wash-dirt has to be
hauled from a greater distance than 2000 feet. The actual
saving effected at the Berry Consols Extended Mine,
Allendale, amounts to £3O per week at a distance of 3000
feet; at the Great Southern Consols Mine, Itutherglen, it
runs into £45 per week, at a distance of 5000 feet; in both
instances the necessary plant which was installed to
replace the manual labor has cost but £l2OO. Experience
has proved that at a distance of 4000 feet electric haulage
cost a quarter of that of horse traction and a tenth of hand
trucking. The Charlotte Plains and New Havillah Mines
at Moolort are the latest to adopt electric haulage, and
have again proved it to be highly satisfactory. The favor-
able results obtained with these installations are un-
doubtedly due in a great measure to the reliable and
smooth operation of the electric apparatus, especially the
locomotives adopted, which were all supplied and erected
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, corner
of Hanna and Kavanagh-streets, South Melbourne, agents
for Ganz and Company, Budapest, Hungary. This firm has
devoted special attention to mine haulage problems, and
during their 14 years’ experience have brought up their
mine locomotives and other haulage apparatus to the
highest degree of perfection.* [2.]
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74,Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Meplian Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* ■» * *
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we ICarn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The New Havillah Gold Mining Company has
just installed a high lift pump to make all necessary pro-
vision against any increase in the volume of water now
that they are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This
installation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine tvpe, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71-5 percent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.* [a]
• * * *
Financial Times (London) under date of 29th
July, 1905, in reviewing the annual report of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, wrote:—“The
annual report of this Society for last year indicates an
increase in its funds, new premiums, premium income and
income from interest, and also an increase in the average
rate of interest earned by its assets.”*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation has taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Bloeks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “Haymarket,”
Sydney.*
• « *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents ob-
tained. Collison and tip., 483 Collins-street,
Melbourne (and Adelaide.) Twenty-six years
practice. Write us for Inventors’ Guide.*


ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE
Jt will please you.
FAST WAY BROTHERS,.
409 and 41,1 GEORGE STREET,. SYDNEY..
WATSON'S WHISKY.
Resch s Wavei’ley Brewery, Agents.
David vStorer Boris’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
CEL BLUE.
Kept by . . ..
ALL MERCHANTS
®- STOREKEEPERS.
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING
OE
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
Aboriginalities.
“ Elmore ” : Got into the snow country
of \ ic. recently to bring cattle to a warmer situa-
tion before winter set in. Some of the people
who live or exist, there did not know the day of
the week ; some were very doubtful about the
year. .None seemed to know if they had an M.P
the'n. Nor did they know (or care)
t ling of One man gave us an m-
O? hl ! l hut -. ‘‘Just over the range,’’ he
said. Stay the night.” Just over the range
was 16 miles, and there he showed us a new
puzzle—the very long defunct “Pigs in Clover ”
Yet some people laugh if you mention “Out
Back m regard to Victoria.
* * * *
“ Janor ” : Among recent suicides in Vic.,
that of a gander is perhaps worth notice. A
neighbor for long kept a pair of geese. Recently
a vagrant dog attacked the goose in the river
and, despite a valiant defence by its better half’
kUied it. 1 rom that time the gander refused
food though tempted with all sorts of dainty
morsels, and died in a fortnight.
* * * *
“Kangaroo”: Have now found out why
it is regarded as unlucky to go under a ladder
baw a perspiring young female try to rush under
a step-ladder, on which a man was standing-
attending to an arc-lamp. She did not notice the
rope across, and the crash resembled the noise of
a Frisco quake. The girl, the man, and the
ladder seemed to be practising jiu-jitsu amidst
the remnants of the arc-lamp, assisted by two
yelping curs which pranced round. The language
of the electrician was strong enough to run all the
lights of the city.
* * *
H. W. : All this talk about supervision
of meat supply seems so strange to me. Where
1 was brought up (in Victoria) we used to sell all
oui flukey sheep to the butcher. As soon as they
showed signs of tuberculosis the butcher got
them. Ihe same person was always on the look
out for cattle with lumpy jaw, & c . ;he got these
at a good reduction, and did well out of them
Be also made a standing offer of £1 a head for
old bulls, from which was composed the succulent
sausage. lam now staying among dairymen of
another district who regard meat supply in much
the same light.
THE UPPERMOST IDEA.
RESIDENT (to motor-man): “ Wot, ’as she turned
yer up? ”
■Ralpji Rodney”:. It seems to. me that
thq rabbit; carcase industry must drop stone dead
when the strychnine and jam process is employed.
The death rate resulting from experiments about
Adelong runs up to about 97 per cent., or there-
abouts. Palmer, the inspector of ruined purchases
in the Gundagai district, reports favorably on the
stncjam cure, but what he intends to suggest as
a means.of keeping a solitary native bird alive
stncjam becomes general I have not heard.
nJ^hS? 6 " 8 ,will .find that for universal
pf y P ls . ,nfectail t,S. ar 'e unsurpassed,
ihe Soluble Phenyle is a powerful insecticide it
kills bugs, cockroaches, fleas, &c., and isojieof the
besti washes for all domestic animals. So dbv all
st . orel «*pers, throughout, Aus-
THE “ TRUCK ” SYSTEM.
NORTH: "For why are you in suck a hurry t' marry me, an' you on'y knowin' me a week!"
TIM: "Well, 'tis loike this, I've got £5 to come to me fur doin' a bit iv gar-rdenin' for
Father Rgan, ’n' he wants me t' take it out.”
“L.G.J.” : In the ’7o’s, at M ‘Donald and
Smith’s Ban Ban station, near Maryborough (Q.),
Pero, a black boy, was one morning speared by a
1 raser Island native, whose lubra he had taken
away when in Maryborough with the wool teams.
.The spear was driven into the back with such
force that 2ft. of the head projected from the pit
of the stomach, and, after breaking off this part,
the manager with difficulty pulled the remainder
out of the back. The wound was a ghastly one •
and, although the bleeding was stopped by a
plentiful application of kerosene, the doctor, when
he arrived, pronounced the case hopeless. The
tnbal blacks of the Burnett, however, removed
the sufferer to their camp, and, after about six
months of their treatment, Pero was able to visit
the station, and in another four months was as
well as ever. Wonderful is the recuperative
power of our black brother Bill.
“ Werrimoo ” : Re “ Coo-ee ” (8., 5/7/’O6).
lhe word comes from the aborigines, who use it,
with slight variations, in nearly all parts
of uncivilised Australia. In a report on
the discovery and exploration of the
Uawkesbury in 1789, by Captain Hunter,
an officer under Governor Phillip, this pas-
sage occurs r In the woods we fre-
quently saw fires, and sometimes heard
the natives; in the afternoon we saw a
considerable number of people in the
woods, with many fires in different places.
v\ e called to them in their own manner
by frequently repeating the word * co-wee. ’’
which signifies ‘come here.’ 55 Some old
timers assert that, as used by the blacks,
it was imitative of the call-howl of the
dingo; while others say it w T as an imita-
tion of the far-sounding note of the wonga
pigeon. There is certainly no call known
in the bush, apart from the call of the
wonga and the dingo’s howl, that can equal
the penetrative power of the coo-ee. In
some parts, as South Australia, the “ ee ”
was not heard, the call sounding like coo-
°°n -Phonetically speaking, coo-ee is the
call of the bushwoman; the male notes
ar ® r? 10 , 1^ 6 lilce ca -a-w-whey—the first
syllable lingering and comparatively low;
the second loud, sharp, and abrupt—a
deep-liquid sound formed in the throat and
forcibly ejected—which is the secret of its
far-reaching quality. Perhaps the first
time it was heard Dowm Under was when
Mrs. Wheeler, honeymooning from this
country, lost her Bill near London Bridge.
Other means failing her, she put her
hands trumpet-like to her mouth, and
l* ogtown with a ringing coo-ee.
It pretty nearly got her ip for riotous behaviour
but it brought Bill-
* * * *
“If every man on the land here had to
make provision for his stock to carry him over six
or seven months of the year, as the farmer in
England or Canada must do, there would be no
osses whatever from our droughts. There is no
land on the face of the earth equal to Australia
from the stockmen s point of view. We have anv
amount of sunlight, and our droughts can be
rr ere 1S ” ot tlie slightest doubt about
—Manager Peacock, of Bathurst (NJS. W )
btatc farm. /
The destruction of native birds is still
going on in Maoriland, the brown men being
mainly responsible. Kiwi feathers make fine
mats, which command high prices, and greed of
gold is responsible for the shooting of a great
many of these birds in the South Island. In the
•Worth, the tui is the great object of attention
and at one place alone (Parihaka, where the
decayed prophet Te Whiti hangs out), over 3000
tins are said to have been recently slain and
put down in fat, according to Maori custom. The
Government talks of suppressing the slaughter, if
possible.
* * * *
Ande :In the struggle for something
new, queer things crop up in house names. Dis-
covered last week “Eist, West, Hame’s Best,”
ir'ii )> l r! a ! ai ’ ‘‘The Haven Under the
±ldl. I m looking now for “ Nil Desperandum.”
ever J.geta house I’ll call it “ We Won’t Get
Home lill Morning.”
* * * *
Janor Have just shut down on a
prolonged and unsuccessful attempt
to tame a platypus. Captured the
joker with the bill before he was
weaned, in a shallow shaft hidden in
the creek bank. There was some
water in the shaft, which I baled with
prospecting dish, the mole making
desperate attempts to bore through
the bottom meanwhile. Soon as the
hole was dry he was my meat, and I
carried him home in the dish covered
with a flake of slate. Close to my
ancestral hall I excavated him a
home in the creek bank, and paled
and roofed it snugly. He’d nothing
to growl about as to the style of
his housing, but he was reai wild
about other things, and all my efforts
to alter his demeanor failed. I
lavished my best manner on the cuss
(I lectured for a Diorama years back),
but he always had urgent business at
the bottom of his well when I was
around. I gave him the choicest
morsels from the menu, but so diffi-
dent was he that he would only eat
m solitude. So after months of work
that would turn a lion-tamer green
with envy I resign. Not that lam
discouraged or that I’m afraid of the
brute with the fearful name (which
I cannot spell), but because he is
dead.
Ku Klux : One of the men had won a
prize in Tatts., and had announced his intention
of retiring. Paddy the ganger met him on the
job anxiously inquiring for his shovel. “ An’
phat the blazes wud ye be goin’ to do wid it, Ryan ?
I thought ye war goin’ to retire?” he asked.
bo lam, said Ryan ; “ but I want it to belt
the kids wid. 11l make thim that sick of the
sight ov a shovel that they’ll niver take to one
tor a livin . Plaze Heavin, they’ll grow up wid
more sinse than their father ; that’s if the shovel
doesn’t break up on ’em.”
8.H..D. : I m satisfied ‘ ‘ The Prooshan ”
(B. 28/6/’O6) doesn’t know all the points about
crow shooting. Let him try running towards the
tree the crow is on, starting to run when about
100 yards off. Nine times out of ten he’ll get to
the foot of the tree before the crow remembers
the appointment he made with another bird of
the same feather on the next man’s farm. Learnt
the trick when shooting the wary bird in my
spare time for a Chow doctor. He paid 4d. a
head, and dried the fowl and ground it into
medicine.
* * * *
“Paul Cupid” : When a lad, I had ocular
demonstration of the cunning of the crow T had
caught one in'a rat-trap by the foot, and, in the
delusion that I could shoot things on the wing I
put the crow under a dish, fastened about 20 yards
of string to the dish, cocked the old muzzle-loader
and reckoned I was going to perforate that bird
for a certainty. I pulled the dish off him, but he
oidy said caw!” and looked astonished, and
started to walk away I shooed and pelted at
him, but he d wily say “caw,” and walk off again
Decided Ins wings must be injured, so put down
the gun and walked up to dispatch him with a
stick. He watched me narrowly till I got mid
way between him and the gun,' and then darted
through the air as if he’d been shot out of a vol-
cano, looking back at me over his wing and saying
caw. Right then, with the zephyr singing l
like the cherubim, and the golden tints of the
glorv ß tTii dHlg the lan ?*»Pe with celestial
gloiy 1 fell from grace ; and, seeing that I was a
boy of tender years who had been brought up in
the odor of piety, it s astonishing where I could
that 6 crow UP th ® language that 1 hurled after
G-ip ’ ; Crows aren’t a bit shy with me,
but perhaps they know I can’t shoot straight.
Bike the white cockatoos, crows have an in-
stinct, ve knowledge when the thing one carries is
a gun, and when it's a stick. They sit on my
g< rden fence and hold most animated conversa-
w‘l Wlt 1 • ‘ji o lnag ? ie - Maggie hates the crow,
ut she whistles up her push when she wants to
attack him. Have seen many mid-air tights
between a crow and half-a-dozen magpies when
the baby maggies were first trying their wings.
* * * *
28/fi/’nn P ' B ‘” : 44 The Prooshan ” (B.
28/6/OC) gives a new method of shooting the
° Bu t I know an easier way. It is to lie down
'’t}’ e y es half-shut, and a trusty gun alongside and
pretend extreme deadness. Presently a caw will
break the stillness, and a crow will appear some
distance awav—too far away to get hurt imme-
diately. 1 hen, as you still lie dead to the world
he comes closer and closer, until within gunshot!
1 hen must come the gradual grasping of the gun
and a sudden bang, and it isn’t the bird's fault if
he ever caws again. I have worked this scores
ot times, and can honestly recommend “ The
I rooshan to try it. It will save him the pos-
siblity of trapping over something when walking
backwards and hurting his little self. K
„
* ir
Another belated entry (by “E.J.H.”)
from Madras, India h
lon £, time s 'nce I was an active aboriginaliar for
the 2Jd. postage rather chokes one off. However the
poor nominations and entries for the Stink Stakes ’have
conymced me that I own a dead bird—lndian jack-fruit
or the Burmese dunen. Think of all the evil, weird and
avvful smells known to the human nose, add them toire-
,"lultlP.i-v by sulphuretted hydrogen, raise to the
fifth dimension and the result is jack-fruit. A globe-
trotter once took a jack-fruit on board a p. and 0. 10 000
tonner, and the smell made the air so thick that’the
engines stopped working. And please note that the iack
fruit is a babe to the durien. J 0k "
SETTLED ON THE LAND.
LANDS COMMISSIONER: “Have you any
particular reason for continuing on the land?”
FARMER O ATS: “O yes! You see, I’m damned
if I can gel off.”
Ata : As I live in China, I claim
the right of late entry for the powerful odor
competition. It is a Japanese faetorv of
. nuine ” orcestershire Sauce, made from the
recipe of a nobleman, etc.” I could swear by the
perfume of things that that nobleman had handed
the recipe up out of a drain.
FROTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I . al ! ers wat . ch the barmaid when she’s pulling me a pot
And a-torkin’ of the weather and a tollin’ that it’s hot.
J t s a ’abit men gets into, up here in the land o’ drought,
An yer tells ’er to be sparin’ with the ’ead upon the stout!
For it’s anguish when yer gets a pot of shandygaff or
beer,
And yer fondly gazes on it in pursuit of life and cheer,
nd .ver bites it two or three times, an’ you turns away
in wrath, J
Tor the girl has filled the pot up, but it’s mostly “head”
and froth.
They hangs a man for murder, or for stiffening a trap •
They gives him time for burglary-three years or more
mayhap;
But a publican can rob you, and there ain’t no law to fear
ror pi hr, up a foot of froth upon an inch of beer.
The country’s gone to ruin, an’ the breweries an’ pubs
W 1 °"' n lfc stock and barrel ; an’ the rich blokes in their
clubs
Blame Labor legislation, which they teach the young to
fear; h
But this land would just be Heaven if they’d keep the
froth off beer.
W.A.
ACHILLES BARDI.


&
Wolfe’s Schnapps,
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
pr Buy Whole Bottles. *vi
%
Cough while you eat),
For you can’t when you will,
If you take this advice
You’ll never get ill.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
All coughing will kill,
So run off your cough,
And run up no bill.*
Squatters
Celebrate a &
Prosperous Year
by Presenting- a
Souvenir in
Diamonds.
Ift Ift
Diamonds and Opal or Turquoise Centre, £22.
It will give daily great joy.
It will afford you pleasure each time you see it.
It will recall a prosperous year.
It is a good investment—Diamonds are always rising.
We Mount Them We Set Them.
Exquisitely finished Brooch, all
Diamonds, £45.
Our Prices never exceed
those of London.^*
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.
Time was when any Queensland horse or
cattle stealer was safe in the hands of a Roma
jury. One noted reiver was arraigned for lifting
600 head of cattle from a Western station. The
evidence was absolutely clear, and the odds were
■laid that the verdict would be “Guilty” without
the jury leaving the box, When they filed in,
after an hour’s deliberation, with a verdict of
“ Not guilty,” Judge Blakeney snapped out:
“Thank God, gentlemen ! that verdict is yours,
not mine.” Blakeney represented matters to the
Government in so unfavorable a light that Roma
was without a District Court for six years. De-
putation followed petition, and petition succeeded
deputation, and at last the Government
relented, and Judge Paul was instructed
to include Roma in the Western Cir-
cuit. At that time the railway had not
reached Bungil Creek, and the journey was finished
per buggy. The leading inhabitants of Roma met
the night before the Judge’s arrival to celebrate, in
champagne and more plebeian liquids, the moral
victory the town had won, and it was decided to
follow an old English custom by meeting the
Judge a few miles out and escorting him into the
town. When the time arrived for setting out, it
was a very unsober cavalcade of horsemen that
took the road to Blythedale. One man was chosen
as spokesman, because he stood his liquor better
than the rest. When the meeting took place he
gravely saluted, and ended up a welcoming speech
by saying : “ This may be regarded, your Honor,
as Paul’s visit to the Romans.” “Ahem,” drily
responded the Judge. “ Would it not be more ap-
propriate to call it Paul’s visit to the Titans.”
The tight ’uns tried to look amused and yet not
fall off.
* » * *
“ Itan ” : “Nulla” and “Gip” have
lately discussed the growth, in a wild state, of
Cape gooseberries and other fruit. All along the
scrub districts of the East coast, from the Clar-
ence River to Port Douglas, gooseberry bushes
will spring up in a great mass after the first burn-
ing-off. Also the cherry-tomato and small black-
berry bid for space with some success. After a little
cultivation the vigor of these plants seems to
wane. _ The yellow guava is now in great pro-
fusion in many of these districts, especially north
of Rockhampton. About Mackay there are
miles of it to be found, especially clustering
about the unused part of the railway or on aban-
doned land that was once cleared. At the back of
Cairns, where there is a break in the tropical
jungle, the luscious pawpaws and mangoes grow
wild. From a pawpaw tree in full bearing, one
could almost fill a cart. It is extraordinary that this
fruit does not gain in favor in the markets of Sydney
and Melbourne. Reverting to Cape gooseberries,
this fruit is commercially grown in some parts of
southern Queensland. The conserve made from
it is excellent. Once the Agricultural Depart-
ment of Bananaland undertook to market a part
of the crop, and to this day Minister Denham is
known as the member for Cape Gooseberry.
* # * k
“Elmore”: Can anyone name a single
1 >ird of prey that has a note of what could be called
song ?
* * * »
“Edyson”: Bulletin records many in-
stances of the giant labors of
single men in the bush and by
flood and field, and I notice that
the superhuman efforts are often
fruitless. YVhat of the case of
Quibell, a lone settler in the hills
of the coal country in Gippsland ?
Quibell has about 300 acres of ex-
cellent land, he has a fair-sized
orchard, a decent kitchen garden,
a few acres of spuds, and a drove
of goats. If he worked hard on
his holding he could make money,
but he prefers to follow his hobby,
and out of that he doesn’t get a
red cent. Quibell’s indiscretion
is artistic, but it does not even
bring him an audience. Near his
paling hut there stands a superb
white gum, straight, high, and
symmetrical. Many years ago
the settler started making carvings
on this tree, and he has gone on
carving and scorching until the
whole butt is a mass of fantastical
designs, and now the filigree, the
birds, beasts, flowers, and twid-
dling frivolities are running out on
the main limbs. Quibell’s art has
developed as it progressed, and his
material rise represents an increas-
ing artistic elevation. Down below
the designs are not much superior
to the efforts of the aboriginal
.Lindsays and Hops, but higher
up he gets in some excellent effects,
comic and serious, and George Reid
and his dog lend themselves to a
unique design in Australian fauna.
At first Quibell found that the gum
shed his carvings with its annual
change of costume, and he lost years
going back and patching up his job, but
now he knows how to do permanent
work, and that tree is a monument of
misdirected art and industry.
“ Quip ” : I know the Nambucca
(N.S.W.) a good bit, and there are so many
Mackays on the River that they are all nick-
named to distinguish them. Beside the four
Angus Mackays there are Black Bob, Red Bob,
Hong Jim, Uncle “Pot,” “Dooty,” also Baldy
Angus’s Angus and old Angus’s Angus.
* * * *
“ Caber ” : That Chicago meat scare re-
minds me of one on a smaller scale that struck
some of us a good many years ago. A Jap was
missing from one of the Queensland sugar mills,
and it was given out that he had cleared for parts
unknown. Three days later, when draining off
The treacle from one of the large vats, they found
-the Jap. He had fallen in when it was boiling,
and made no remark about it. For seven years I
avoided treacle and scorned golden syrup. We
knew the economical habits of the sugar mills of
the period.
“ T.O’Fipp ” : Met with a curiosity in the
way of a patchwork bike, ridden by an antique
swagman, who was making a triumphal entry
with his implement into a Gippsland (Vic.)
township. The bike had lost a lump of handle-
bar, which was replaced by a crooked stick. A
number of spokes were conspicuous by their
absence, and those remaining were stayed from
one to another with pieces of wire that had once
belonged to wire-netting. The lop-sided seat was
strengthened with fencing-wire, and the torn
tyre bore patches of moleskin and greenhide. The
rider of the quaint art-object proudly informed
me that he could cover from 16 to 20 miles per
day, but he always got off and walked when he
struck a bit of bad road, as he didn’t believe in
asking too much off a good bike. He also advised
me to back him and his mount for the next
Bairnsdale road-race, when he meant to throw
prudence to the winds and “let ’er fly.”
* * * *
At the recent Atherton (N.Q.) Agricul-
tural Show, a Chinaman offered a special prize of
a guinea for the best sample of maize grown by
white men in that district!
* * * *
“J.S.”: It was pay-night at the camp
between the two big cuttings. Pincher Bill had
come home drunk, and Mrs. P.B. started on him
with a piece of sapling, and P. B.’s roars were
awful. The new chum in our camp jumped up.
“My God, she’ll kill the man ! Hadn’t we better
interfere ? ” Nobody seconded the motion, and
the new chum, with a look of contempt, dashed
over and caught Mrs. P.B. by the arms, and
dragged her off P.B. Plainly the new chum knew
how to handle women, for she dropped the sap-
ling and squealed for help—and got it. P.B.
struggled to his feet, grasped the sapling, and
knocked the new chum out first hit. He came-to
half-an-hour later. On Monday, after pay, P.B.
came home from the cutting and found Mrs. P.B.
drunk and no dinner ready. Her squeals were
awful. “My God, he’ll kill her ! ” said one of the
“ batchers ” to the new chum. “ Hadn’t we better
interfere ? ” The new chum went on frying his
steak.
“Rio” : Meta Finn last week who had
contracted hydatids in Queensland, and endured
eight months’ suffering therefrom. He visited
six hospitals for treatment, and tried many
doctors, but continually got worse. A doctor at
Brisbane urged an operation, but the old chap
recommended him to try his skill at the slaughter-
house down the river. Finally he called on a
medico who had a noble thirst, and he said :
“Take no more food until I tell you. Drink a
bottle of good port wine, half a bottle of brandy,
and a few drops of turps every day. Take also
one dose only of the medicine I prescribe, and if
the hydatids don’t die something else will.”
After five days the hydatids were poisoned, and
there was just enough of Finn left to throw a
shadow. But he survived. A wonderful race are
these Finns.
“ THE LITTLE WET NURSE.”
Brisbane has got its floating island also.
The phenomenon was first noticed during the
flood of 1893, when a swamp at Chelmer kept its
trees and vegetation gaily on the surface. On
investigation it was found that a great mass of
vegetation was floating. Throughout the Great
Drought this swamp proved to be a perfect God-
send to local stockowners, as it maintained a
plentiful supply of pure water —the evaporation
of which was checked by the floating earth and
vegetation.
BENT, BROKE, BURST.
REV. SNUFFLE (who has been called in to say a few words to son of the house): “Ah!
Reginald, lam truly grieved to hear that you have been to the races again. Remem-
ber, as the twig is bent the tree is inclined.”
R EGINALD: “ Bent! I’m more than bent, I’m dead broke."
In a M.L. court the other day, two young
fellows were charged with stealing three calf-
skins. The “cops” reckoned they had a copper-
lined case from the start, and the defending
lawyers thought that their best chance was to rely
on the good characters of their clients and the
tender mercy of the First Offenders Act. They
had just got a strain on the quality of mercy when
the magistrate stopped them and began to ask
some questions. He learned that the prosecutor
was a farmer. That the accused were employed
by him to keep his land clear of rabbits. That he
paid them no wages, but gave them a penny
halfpenny a pair for skins, and their keep.
He kept the skins and the Sawbath day. He
gave them their grub—mostly boiled rabbit.
They helped to milk the cows night and morning
to show they were not afraid of work. Then the
beak started to calculate a bit while the crowd
below listened to the noises caused by the growth
of its whiskers. According to the court’s figuring
the accused were afoot from 5 a.m. till 9 p.m.
seven days a week, and the sum paid them for
rabbit skins averaged 2s. 6d. per week. Also
they got their boiled rabbit for meals. Then he
fined them £1 each, which was too much, though
it was a woeful disappointment to some strong
believers in Propputty who thought three months
was the minimum, In such cases there should be
some provision whereby the Law can take out the
fine in rabbits.
* * * *
“G.M.”: “ W.P.B.’s” suggestion (8..
21/6/’OG) that cats prefer their own music to any
other requires a little elucidation. Thomas does
not yowl because he likes music—his yowling is
merely the utterance of angry passions. Take the
common triangular love situation —a lady and two
Thomases. The cat is a natural coward, and will
not fight till he is sufficiently worked up. Thus,
each Thomas commences to tell the other he-eat
that his presence is unbearable; that the other he-
eat wasn’t invited ; that he is himself no inter-
loper, and knew Flossie first; and that if t’other
does not leave he will rip the coat off him and
strew the place with his whiskers. Then, when
one or the other is sufficiently maddened by his
own yells and the recital of his wrongs, he wades
in suddenly and without warning to get in a nasty
one under the belt. Music is the last thing he is
thinking of. He shouts at himself to keep him-
self from running away.
MILKIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a sunburned farmer who was leaning on a plough,
And talking to a traveller as he mopped his shining
brow ;
“ Can you milk?” the farmer queried, and the weary one
replied—
“ Never left a gill in any cow I ever sat beside.”
The farmer stood and pondered and he said, “ Well,
I might find
Some sort uv light employment fer a feller to me mind ;
While me son an’ me are ploughin’ (we must do it while
we can)
Some jobs maybe ’ll crop up fer a useful, all-round man.
‘ There’s some snaggin’ at the water-’ole —it’s time that
that was done—
And the missus wants wire-nettin’ fixed around ’er
poultry run;
There’ some cleanin’ round the stables, and there’s
milkin’, did I say ? ”
“ Yes, you spoke about the milkin’,” said the traveller ;
“ fire away.”
“ You can fill to-morrer mornin,” said the farmer, sure
and slow,
“ With a drain I’ve thoughter diggin’ fer this fifteen
month or so ;
There’s the pigs’ feed to be carried, there’s the ’orses to
attend,
And a heap of broken blacksmith’s tools that’s waitin’ fer
ter mend.
“There’s some fencin’ the contractor couldn’t finish,
bein’ sick —•
You’ll find ’is line of post-’oles over yonder by the crick ;
And towards evenin’ Sis an’ mother’ull be ready with the
cows ”
“ Aye, you menshuned there’d be milkin’,” said the man,
with gloomy brows.
“ The man I want,” the farmer said, “won’t loaf about
and yarn ;
You can ’ave the last bloke’s quarters in the corner uv the
barn ;
If your time should ’ang too ’eavy (when the milkin’ is
got through)
I’ve some old tarpaulin covers you could fix as good as noo.
“ I’ll wake you in the mornin’,” said the farmer, “ with
the boy ;
It’s gen’lly turn-out-early with the men that I employ.
And you’ll start the day with milkin’—have I spoke uv
that as yet ? ”
“ I believe I ’eard a w’isper,” said the traveller in a sweat.
“ Well, things is pretty quiet,” said the farmer. “ Seems
to me
Twelve bob a week ud pay you, if you git your tucker
free.
Th'ere’ll be fencin’, diggin’, mendin’, patchin’ things up
’ere an’ there ”
“ And amusemints, seeh as milkin’,” said the traveller
with a glare.
“ There’ll be Sis and me and Mother,” said the traveller,
growing red,
“ Ull be tuggin’ at them milkers when the sun ain’t outer
bed ;
And when the pale moon’s risin’, all the landscape fer to
kiss,
Sittiu’ achin’ in the cowshed ’ll be Mother, Me, and Sis.
“ When things get kinder lonesome fer the want uv work
to do,
We’ll git up milkin’ parties till the night is ’alf way through.
When the crimson sun is mountin’, or is sinkin’ in the
West,
I’ll be milkin’, ’long uv Mother, just to keep me ’eart at
rest.”
And the traveller muttered curses that were loud, and
likewise deep,
And he left the farmer standing like a man surprised
from sleep.
The farmer watched him plodding o’er the hillside’s
muddy brow —
“ Well, I told ’im there’d be milkin’,” he remarked, and
seized his plough.
VIC.
p.


ĥ
$ AA *7 ice IrHfe.
: liability, t7oW rrjort". - *
up 1b Ise "
A U S^:-" /'// See y Q a
Wlje.n you W3iKe f ”
:
fen
«. Hfeiil
Johnny Umo bis Ufoe*^
H«S «<*S, '.nvifcd Itjt Constable V^To
- * litf,
h,«^b« KS «j:^ c
P^nr"
== £= r S'/ I Millions
g 'LMiK
HI lIT^BiS
111 ofer-^»0 fer -^»
H I, *
■1 >«,, 21
111 • v**i«ouc /
Jfy*. injured .nmrniTnM
V^nTTTlull I I
CA S c)/ '^pP^A
|f 1 /
y/iik
TT Hfl / IjA O
V
"tt)€ loss of 3^3. s*Ol><rtrO
y *T>ef'ore
over //, Terr-
M ; -
C|r>'M !
\ ljre
Country *
\ vfc Wse?
£lWneJ
| - st7e&»
sift»2dTon resell/
Svrblui Cr«wi*,» - '
st^fei.
l tY- A h s*ey
if tye Gould h7ove /
hjotTon for life
of Cfcrfaiif Gov.
*w(jo called Itje
Mrfy. Con
£• robbers . .. I.*
Th*Sf>ezKer;-~ No! /
<5D>, ,
N > .A‘'fct:-''soh^CKy_y OUr| £ feller— fll be *
'f 'fu 7**
•*“ SlfodU 'Hjink' %
l+“vAs |br hye ! '
€ r "'jjfie >^es v l^ _ sPcwr«d line, of
4 {)l'At+Tcavlly t7«W ,flyino Ijer'ovVn J flA£, )
om-/i,»p Hep ov/*i kwj j^cV* r, np for her* Pnigpc
««<*»• ■■ (Ase] 5 I
FROM MELBOUBNE.


AN API DEFINITION FOR THE TIMES.
Professor: “What’s a demagogue?”
Pupil: “Please, sir, it’s a thing made to
hold liquor.”
It has been decided by the N.S.W. >
Government not to permit the sale of
grog at the new Railway Station.”
Shade of John Robertson : “ What
. a pity I Why, you might have
ft , (trunk the country out of debt
same as we did the old
'ft Reform Club! ”
Cabled that England is strongly in favor of
a general disarmament of the nations.
Well, what’s the matter with setting a good
example ?
TOOK. JOE CARRUTHERS AND HUS PERSECUTORS,
Jo : “ Can t you let such on unfortnet «s me alone? Ain’t I unfortnet enough
for. you yet? I've been a-chtvied and a-ehivied fust by one on you, and
uixt by another on you till I’m worrited to skin and bones. . . , / done
nothink.”
Chorus of Press: “Yes, that’s just where it is. you’ve ‘done nothink.'
Get a move on you ; do something or gif. At least, stop that whining.”
—“ Bleak House ” {Dickens), slightly altered.
JOE’S MISERIES, &c.
We are feeling the position acutely, and we desire to let the public know that we do feel it acutely. We feel that we are being misjudged—not only the
Government and Government supporters, but members on all sides of the House. We feel that we are being misjudged ; that the public mind is inflamed. It
is natural that members should feel acutely the position they are put in, and they feel the unfairness of the position they are made to occupy by a wrong con-
struction being put upon the actions of Parliament and the actions of the Government. — From recent wail by J. H. CARRUTHERS.


The Worlds.:
* D entifri ce
Simply rinse the mouth
and clean the teeth daily with
Odol. The breath will always
be pure, the teeth insured against
decay, and the mouth free from
impurities.
Price 2/6 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several
months (the half-size bottle 1/6 ).
PERSONAL ITEMS.
That not-over-mild person, Vic. Premier
Bent, has for private secretary one Mr. Meek.
Judkins, who fusses so much in Melbourne
now, used to teach school at Creswick (Vic.).
Norman Lindsay was one of his pupils.
Jos. Symes, of Freethought fame, was
bequeathed £lOO by a recently demised Murchi-
son (W.A.) admirer. And he needed it.
Words of great men. Crick: “I have
occupied big positions in the past and will do so
again.” W. Nicholas Willis (before Justice
Owen): “It is incumbent on a man before all
things to preserve his honor.” Harry Levien :
“Crick is my friend, so I’ll vote for him. What
the devil do I care what he does ! ”
It appears quite likely that the fifth Minister
in S.A., should.the Council pass the Bill to
authorise his appointment, will be little Roberts,
editor of the Labor Herald.
“Koradgee” Chaplain, who left Brisbane
Courier a year ago to take up the post of Director
of Agriculture in W.A., has resigned, and it is
stated is returning to Bananaland. According to
accounts he did not agree with the experts in the
service.
S.A. University has just appointed its
second native-born professor in Dr. Jethro Brown,
head of the law school. The first native to attain
the distinction was E. C. Stirling.
The new Brighton (Melbourne) electric
tramway had its terminus at poet Gordon’s house.
But the old barn, broken down and weather-
beaten, has been now replaced by a shop, which
is painted a bright-green.
Melbourne attorney Croker, whose nego-
tiation of the new mail service brings him under
light, is a slim pale wisp of a man, dressed always
to the “nines.” He formerly partnered with Gil-
lott.
William Hodges, who recently died at
Norwood (S.A.), aged 84, was the last of the
pioneers who arrived by the brig Rapid in 1836.
Old Australian writer and dramatist, Gar-
net Walcli, spends the evening of his life quietly
among his flowers and books at Surrey Hills
(Melbourne). A daughter runs a prosperous
type-writing business in the city, and types MS.
for her father’s successors.
“H.M.C.”: Be children’s names. How
do the following strike you ? They belong to a
family of twenty-one down Alexandra (Vic.) way :
Gypsy, Caesar, Ruby Pearl, Jasper Bud, Claude
Silverton Silas, New Year Coolgardie, Silas
Nature, and Noel Maximum.
Died, H. M. Chomley, ex-Police Com-
missioner of Victoria, aged 74 years. Like many
other adventurers he came to Australia in the
early fifties, attracted by the gold discoveries.
After delving for a while he joined the police as a
cadet, and was present at the storming of Eureka
Stockade.
FLEMING, MELBOURNE'S GENTLE
ANARCHIST.
Died last week at Bendigo W. D. C.
Denovan, who, as digger, member of Parliament,
town clerk, newspaper editor and stockbroker,
had been connected with the city since 1853.
Denovan was a confirmed spiritualist, and in his
time wrote one or two books on the subject.
George Fowlds, M.H.R., Maoriland, re-
cently trod his native heath in Scotland to join
his brethren in celebrating his father’s hundredth
birthday. The centenarian, a hand-loom weaver,
still works the engine of his youth; for 90 years
he has been working at Farwick, near Kil-
marnock, where he was born.
Premier Price, who is also Education
Minister, told a gathering of Adelaide teachers,
the other day, that when he worked at his trade
as a stone-mason, he always did his best, and
turned a deaf ear to mates who urged that he was
“ s'poiling the job.” Price was an excellent trades-
man, as much of the mason work in the S.A.
House of Assembly testifies.
The doctor who was so nearly drawn into
the Melbourne boot-box tragedy of a decade back
has now got the best practice in a north-eastern
Vic. town. Of the other actors, boy Tod and
the elderly Madame Radalyski have disappeared,
while the masterful, handsome Thekla Regina
Dubberke was last seen at a recent market-
gardeners’ picnic.
Retired from business, after a clearing
sale, old Simon Kozminsky, jeweller, and plate,
coin and curio dealer, whose sign has adorned his
; shop-front, on the corner opposite Melbourne
G.P.0., for more years than most of us want to
remember. Simon knew a curio or a relic when
he saw one, and there were few Brummagem
articles of rertu in his shop. The old shop comes
down to make room for a skyscraper.
, tG tlie , ti ? ie , was
pointed Minister for Public Works m the
Ballance Cabinet, Seddon was, excepting
on the West Coast, a comparatively un-
R Vhatfirst bought editorial
attention to him was an announcement
he made in reply to the Wellington
Posts statement that the under-secre-
tanes would keep the greenhorn Govern-
menfc m Jts place till tbe A tkinsonites
came back. Seddon solemnly swore in
public to root out any civil servant who
tried to block any measures he should
draft, He believed in an Administration
having civil servants in sympathy with
jts aims. Then Seddon and John Mac-
kenzie rushed through the country root-
-11/S ou t men who were well-known par-
tisans, and promoting to their places
others who could be relied upon to do
their work faithfully. The squealing was
E,'
There was hardl one influ^tial fauiil
in Maoriland which hadn’t a relative
suddenly sacked, or hurled down to lick
stamps in the office where he had before
walked round with a tennis racquet
under his arm, talking of the awfully
jolly time he’d had at Mrs. Somebody’s
delightful garden tournament.
W. Walker, M.L.C, still doing a
bit at law and law-making, was a prac-
tising solicitor four years before N.S.W.
obtained Responsible Government.
Mr. J. B. Turnbull, who died at Mada-
gascar in February last, was well-known at
Newcastle, where he was chief mine-manager for
the A.A. Co. Subsequently he superintended
mining operations at Lithgow and Seaham.
After leaving Australia he settled in South Africa,
and was in Madagascar on business when death
overtook him.
Mr. George Day, who was a Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) native, born 1820, died last week.
Many years ago Mr. Day went to Albury and
established himself in the flour milling business.
In 1873 was elected for the Hume, continuing in
the representation till 1889. He was given a seat
in the Legislative Council by George Dibbs.
Mr. W. H. Duncan, S. Australian squatter,
who died at sea in May last while returning from
England, left an estate valued for probate pur-
poses at £84,000. The widow gets the real estate
during widowhood. Adelaide Hospital benefits
to the amount of £lOOO, and £5OOO is to be applied
to the erection and maintenance of cottage homes
for aged and infirm widows.
The old cottage of Johnny Fawkner, the
founder of Melbourne, still stands in the front
garden of S. Eardley-Wilmot in Launceston.
Wilmot’s house is built on the site of Fawkner’s
market garden. For years Johnny’s old cabin
was the residence of Wilmot’s gardener, but now
the place is untenanted and in decay. The local
A.N. A. wants to have it furbished up and made a
show place.
S. G. Mee, a compositor em-
ployed on the Queenslander (Bris-
bane), is aged 88, and, with the excep-
tion of a few brief spells, he has been
type-snatching for 74 years. Arriving
in Sydney in 1852, he was employed on
the Empire, and subsequently on the
Bathurst Free Press, Herald, and
Armidale Express. Next he went to
Brisbane, and for 46 years has been
comping for the Brisbane Newspaper
Company, first on the Courier, and
afterwards on the Queenslander.
Heaven knows how many tons of type
he has lifted.
Nicholas Lockyer, recently made
Assistant Comptroller-General of Cus-
toms, and lately I. S.O. is a kind of bene-
ficent despot at the Sydney Customs
House. He came from the Treasury
with a young, alert, and enthusiastic
mind, and sat him on the Collector’s
throne. He ordered a general hustle.
Then he searched the Commonwealth
for available young minds, took some
fresh blood from the schools, gathered
them all in a class in his room, and
taught them how to waylay the fraudu-
lent importer, and stalk the wild and
elusive invoice-fakir to his warehouse.
Then he ordered the youths back to
their rooms, and told them to bustle,
and the 1.5.0. conferred upon him
by King Ned will carry great weight
with the deceitful importers, whose
reverence for his Majesty is only ex-
ceeded by their determination to take
his Majesty down for his legitimate
revenue.
■The neatest thing that has yet
been said about the Kaiser is the re-
mark of H. G. Wells that he “ professes
a violent and grotesque Christianity,
with a ferocious, pro-Teutonic Father and a
negligible Son.”
Sydney City Council has changed the name
of Queen’s Place (near The Bulletin office) to
Dalley-street. Dailey is alleged to have been
born in a house still standing in Lower George-
street, opposite the Commissariat Stores. Henry
Parltes, in 1840, worked in Russell’s foundry,
then in Queen’s Place, and is said to have lived
in one of the quaint cottages in Queen’s Court off
that street.
Died, April 25, at Waco, Texas (U.S.A.),
Robert Hope Atkinson, aged 48 years. He was
the first representative of the Equitable Life
Assurance Society of New York, in Sydney. After
leaving the Equitable he established a remarkable
lottery for the disposal of some scraps of land,
which gamble got him into trouble. On emerging
from “ trouble,” after some months, he went back
to his native land, and what he has been doing
there since, this country knoweth not.
While George Watson, the V.R.C. starter,
was still grappling with illness, both the Argus
and the Age came out with a full account of his
death. Had it not been that old George was in
extremis —he died early on the morning of the
announcement—both papers would probably
have had to explain their breaking away before
the fall of the flag. As it was, no one noticed the
irregularity except the Herald, which,' in the
ordinary course, would have had the privilege of
first announcing the event.
Justice Cussen, of Victorian Supreme Court •
Bench, is a railway engineer. So was the late
Bryan O’Loghlen, who might have been a Supreme
Court Judge if he had kept out of politics, for
which he had no vocation. Ex-Judge Quinlan, of
Victoria (now living in England), kept a hay and
corn store in Melbourne before he went to the
Bar, and after he had gone there he married the
daughter of a wealthy ex-publican, whose house
was in Little Bourke-street.
FATE OF THE FALSE PROPHETS.
Dr. Rentoul gives the lie in England to the Stinking
Fish Party.
And it came to pass that Korah and his
associates were swallowed up.
If King O’Malley is left out of Parliament
at next Commonwealth elections he will, accord-
ing to a project on hand, be invited to float him-
self off as head of a new religion. The financial
success of JDowie and others shows what can be
done in that field. O’Malley, in early life, was in
the religious line, and it is said he still possesses
the rough notes of a Bible he then composed.
“ Quidam ” : Australians seem to be able
to stand pretty well any climate ever constructed.
Knew one young Rockhamptonite who went to
Klondike in its early days, and stood the climate
so well that after a visit to his native town (re-
puted to be the sultriest centre on the Eastern
coast) he returned undaunted to the Arctic Circle.
From cane-cutting or mining in Northern Queens-
land to the rigors of Klondike is a pretty far cry,
yet the white Australian can be found holding his
end up at either of those extremities.
How that weighty Tory, William Knox,
of Kooyong (Vic.), orates in the House of Repre-
sentatives :
I—er—repeat again, as—er— emphatically as anything
the Attorney-General has—er—said, that I for one—er—
believe—erUthat—er—we should be doing an injustice—
er—to—er—our Australian manufacturers here if we did
not—er, er—recognise this as a fundamental—er —prin-
ciple, underlying this measure, which many of us—er—
agreed not to vote against— er—on the second—er —read-
ing, if there is not to be somewhere in this Bill—er —if it
is to be of any use at all —er —some —er —means of pre-
venting—er, er—the unfair—er—or any—er—wrongful
competition with any—er—Australian—er, er —industry.
Er, er, er !
The most popular North Queensland pic-
ture post-card hasn’t got alligators or waterfalls
or canefields on it, but represents part of the
great unnatural resources of the country in the
shape of a local Chinaman and his four wives and
20 or so youngsters. At least there are only
three wives in the picture ; the fourth, repre-
sented by an empty chair, was probably away on
domestic duty. The yarn is that there are nine
more wives, hut they are left in China. Things
are seldom so bad that they couldn’t be worse.
The whole 13 might have arrived to hasten the
discoloration of the North. The frank polygamist,
who cheerfully owns to importing Chinese cus-
toms to these parts, and is the central figure of
many photographs, practises as a doctor.
“Spring”: Who and what sorb of a
human is this noble Senator who helps the Wren
to feather its nest? Has anyone ever read his
bumps? Has he the bleak eye of credulity, the
fan-like ear of the tip-taking juggins? Did he
learn his social politics in the two-up and hazard
school? Were his fellow-pupils decayed pugs,
sleeper-turners, thimble-riggers, and “workers”
of that sort? Does he spend his reading moments
absorbing penny-shockers—“ Three-card Bill, the
Dare-devil Crook,” and “Short-odds Dave, the
Hero of Rooks’ Retreat ” ? Take a young man’s
advice, noble Senator, and waste a night’s rest
thinking. Then get up unrefreshed, and have no
breakfast, dinner or tea. You’ve been in a steady
job too long, and eat, drink, and sleep so much
that your common sense has become clogged.
Stuart Alexander Donaldson, first Premier
of N.S.W., appears to have been a rainbow-hued
sort of politician. A description of him when
making his policy speech, from the Empire of half
a century ago :
Mr. Donaldson—rich, mellow, and pulpy as a melon —
came down to the House to give his “explanation ” in ab-
solutely splendid condition. His vest of cramoisy stuff —
scarlet, just fading—capacious, massive, and “heavy,”
made him look as much like a well-bred Minister as even
the Young England Party could have desired. His full
and affluent coat, thrown loosely open ; his neckcloth,
tied jauntily ; his flowing trousers ; and withal, his full-
toned form —big, stately, almost jovial—were sufficient
of themselves to strike terror into any new member, and
drive all thoughts of a maiden speech to Tophet.
And despite all that, his Ministry’lasted only two
months and nineteen days. Later, when he held
the office of Treasurer in the Ministry of Premier
Parker, he lasted 11 months and four days.
“Phoenix” writes:—
Tub Bullktix (28/6/’O6), referring to Senator J. C.
Neild, states : “He has been all his political life trying
to destroy Australian industries,” <&c. Exceedingly sorry
to say you are only almost correct. Once, and only once,
Neild waved his jawbone on behalf of the then growing
Protectionist cause, but he offended the Foreign-traders
of Paddington so badly by that act that they elected a
comparative outsider against him, consequently he had
to spend one Parliament without place, pay, or poli-
tical honor. I was at one of his meetings and
heard Jawbone, advocate the encouragement of our
local industries, and say that with adequate assist-
ance the products of 'local industries could replace with
advantage many shiploads of foreign, imports. That was
his political downfall—though he had once talked bunkum
for nine hours, the angry electors left him seventh on the
list, with 1806 votes. At the next election, however,
he announced himself astaunchsupporter of Foreign-trade,
and went on to speak of “the advantages that must
accrue by following the leaders of that great and glorious
doctrine, advanced by the greatest thinkers and states-
men of the old country, and so vigorously supported
by the ablest and most prominent workers for
the welfare of Sunny New South Wales.” (Have you
noticed how many of our politicians round off by using
“Sunny N.S.W. Abigail always did.) So the political
gentlemen got elected again, and he has discouraged
Australian industry ever since.
John Macarthur, about whom “ F.M.”
wrote (B. 5/7/’O6), was the first in Australia to
raise a legal question which even to-day suitors
occasionally touch on. John, the father of the
wool trade, had, it was alleged, smuggled into
Sydney a private still. Law proceedings followed,
but John, when cited to appear before the Crimi-
nal Court, set up the objection that Judge-
Advocate Atkins had borrowed money from him
and should not therefore be allowed to sit on the
Bench at his trial. Under the law of the time
there could be no Criminal Court without the
Judge-Advocate. Atkins, however, sat; but
before effect could be given to the court proceed-
ings, Macarthur had raised the standard of revolt
and deposed Governor Bligh.
“0.K.”: A recent Bulletin par com-
menting on the fact that the late W. P. Buckhurst,
of Melbourne, left less than £50,000 behind him,
erroneously stated that he was onetime a million-
aire but had been a heavy loser by land-boom
speculations. Buckhurst, so far from being a
rash gambler, was always scoffing at the foolishness
of Melbourne’s land-boom. He preached against
it, and refused to take any financial part in it.
Buckhurst was a niggardly man with a fixed
determination to avoid any excitement likely to
affect his health. For about twenty years before
his death he had ceased to work. He lived on the
income from his numerous house and land proper-
ties, travelled a good deal, and enjoyed himself in
his selfish, cautious way. The most non-boom-
some man that ever looked twice at a sixpence
before spending it.
The late George Watson would probably
have lived some years longer had it not been for
the invention of the bicycle and the motor car.
With him horse was more than a passion. It was
a religion. His whole life was horse, and he
brought up his children the same way. His boys
could ride as soon as they could walk, and his
daughter had her first riding habit at the age of
18 months. Whenever old George saw a man
riding a bicycle he would shiver, but console
himself with the idea that the rider was a poor
sort of creature, anyhow. It was when the
motor came along, and many people he had
known and respected as horsemen were seen out
in the degrading instruments of locomotion, that
he began to break down. His last public appear-
ance was at the Squires-Murphy fight, to which
he was wheeled in a chair.
WITH DANTE.
G UIDE: “ These are Australian artists, educated
on the continent, and now waiting for engage-
ments in London.”
MORTAL: “But why are they not engaged in
their own country ?”
G UIDE: “Oh, they are much too good for that.”
Another wearisome absurdity that still
remains in the House of Representatives (in spite
of a pressure of business so heavy that Prime
Minister Beakin has admitted that some Bills
will have to be sacrificed before the end of the
session) is the setting aside of certain occasions
as “ grievance days,” on which any member may
get up and babble on any subject he pleases.
Then Joe Cook froths at the Labor party ; bush
members talk about a post-card that went astray
at Boppy Mountain or out in the Mallee; and
every obscure Parliamentary fowl scratches round
in its own particular heap of dust. The dis-
cussions begin anywhere, wander everywhere, and
end nowhere, and all Parliamentary business is
hung up.


MATTERS MASONIC.
EVEN as with the ORDINARY REQUIREMENTS OF LIFE, both MASTER and MAN as well as “MISSUS” and MAID find the advantage of
dealing with us, so with regard to the SPECIAL GOODS presented through THE MEDIUM of this advertisement both MASTER and APPRENTICE
will soon discover THE VIRTUE OF
Anthony Hordern’s Famous Low Prices.
MASONIC REGALIA, JEWELS MATERIAL.
Past Masters’ Gauntlets
As illustration, 19s 3d pair
Gauntlets—
With Sterling Silver Jewels,
J.W. S.W. M.
17s 9d 18s 6d 18s Gd pair
As well as all Kinds
of Masonic
Requirements.
Craft Officers’ Collars —
Without the Jewel shown in the
illustration, 8s 6d, 9s 6d each.
m
v&msm
mm
Mw
im
m
m
14
j Past Masters’ Gauntlets
■ As illustration, 19s 3d pair.
Gauntlets —
Without Jewels,
13s 6d, 15s 6d pair.
Apron Cases—
Various Qualities, 2s 6d, 2s 9d, 3s 3d, 3s 6d,
4s 6d to 8s 6d each.
Japanned Tin Oases, to hold 1, 2 or 3
Aprons, from 5s 6d each
Japanned Tin Cases, air-tight, to hold Apron,
Collar and Gauntlets, 10s 6d each.
Leather Cases, to hold 1,2, or 3 Aprons,
14s each
Japanned Tin or Leather Cases, larger sizes,
made to order.
APRONS for SCOTCH or IRISH CONSTITUTION
MADE TO ORDER.
P^gpgjs
mm
'U
m
fca, ..
Past Masters* Aprons-
Witli Plated Levels, from 19s 6d each.
With Sterling Silver Levels, from 25s to 60s each
Mark Masters* Aprons— l2s 6d each.
Apron and Sash-
Royal Arch Companion’s, 22s 6d, 27s 6d, 34s set
Royal Arch Principal’s, from 50s set.
Master Masons* Aprons (as illustrated)—
With Plated Metal Tassels, 12s 6d each.
With Plated Bullion or Metal Tassels, 15/6 each
With Plated Chain Tassels, 15s 6d each
With Sterling Silver Bullion or Sterling Silver
Tassels, 21s each.
ANTHONY HORDERN (Q. SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
PALACE EMPORIUM, SYDNEY-
BILIOUSJfEADACHES KUTNOW’S POWDER
A Famous Royal Academician
WHITES :
“1, Abbey Road, St. John’s
“Wood, N.W., April 5,1905.
“I have used Kutnow’s Powder every
morning for the last five years, and it
has added to the pleasure of my life.
I take a tablespoonful every morning
when I rise, and find it a most refresh-
ing drink. I have never needed to
increase the dose, and it has acted per-
fectly in assisting Nature all this time.
I am now strong and healthy, and give
you my experience, which may be
useful.
“JOHN MacWHIRTER, R.A.”
F. W. BUTLER, ES&, 8.A.,
WRITES :
“9 Belvidere Place, Dublin,
“February 6, 1905.
“I feel bound to add my grateful
testimony to the merits of Kutnow’s
Powder, the effects of which to me
have been new life and invigoration.
Although having no faith in any medi-
cine for the habitual and severe consti-
pation I have suffered from for nearly
20 years, I procured a bottle of Kut-
now’s Powder. Its effect was all that
I could desire, bringing about a gentle,
natural action, almost unfelt, and
leaving the bowels in a healthy, natural
state.
“F. W. BUTLER, 8.A.”
BUSINESS PURSUITS, which keep the mind more or less upon the stretch for
eight, ten, and even twelve hours daily, generally expend more nerve force
than can be generated by the over-anxious-aspirant to success. Excessive
nervousness and irritability, as every unfortunate wife of a hard-driven brain-
worker well knows, is a very common result of overwork, sometimes exhibited in the
gentlest form, a slight feeling of languor, a disinclination to rise to the occasion of
the usual brilliant effort, a headache, inability to sleep soundly, disturbing dreams,
&c. Constipation aggravates the evil, and the digestive organs fail to keep pace
with the additional strain on the nervous system. The dangerous brain-condition is
that in which the cerebrum has become so benumbed as not to feel the peril and
demand a halt. The brain derives its sustenance from the physical fitness of the
organs of digestion, consequently the organs of excretion need likewise to be in
perfect working order. Men and women can stand any amount of work as long as
the digestive and excretory organs are physically fit, and this condition can only be
relied on with unvarying regularity by means of Kutnow’s Powder.
PRESCRIBED BY PHYSICIANS.
HOW TO GUARD
AGAINST FRAUD.
The genuine and original Kutnow’s Pow-
der can be had of all conscientious
chemists. Examine the package and see
that it bears the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and the registered
trade mark “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” which must also appear on every
bottle. You will then avoid fraud and
GET GENUINE
KUTNOW* S POWDER.
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN
WRITES :
“ Knock, Ennis, Co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Having recently {rot from you a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I personally de-
rived much benefit, will you now kindly send me
a larger supply? I really feel unsatisfied without
it myself, and I have recommended it to several
lady patients, who approve of it greatly. An
aged clergyman to whom I recommended it tells
me he finds it both effective and agreeable.
“J. BOND SULLIVAN,
“M.D., M.R.C.S., Eng., etc.
Splendid Testimony.
“2, Percy Road, Wrexham.
“Sirs, —Some five years ago I had
an acute attack of nephritis (inflamma-
tion of the kidney) and my doctor
advised Harrogate waters. After try-
ing them for some time with very little
result, the doctor suggested giving
Kutnow’s Powder a trial, with such
excellent result that in a short time I
felt very much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other day for
two years, and consider it worked an
entire cure.
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).’’
REV. A. H. MAWSCN, M.A.,
WRITES :
“Ufßngton Vicarage, Shrewsbury.
“Gentlemen, —I should be glad if
you could kindly send me a bottle of
the Kutnow’s Powder for a parishioner
to whom I have recommended it. From
my own experience of much benefit
derived from your Kutnow’s Powder I
feel sure that he would also derive
benefit from its use. It ha& certainly
been found by myself not only a simple
and safe remedy, but always an
efficacious one.
“(Rev.) A. H. MAWSON, M.A.
(“C.C. Coll., Camb.).”
KUTNOW’S POWDER
REMOVES- _
Stomach Disorders
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
[5-11].


s
£
A
<b
*
❖
tef
4?
o
to
o*
ve?
tV^ e
ixmfuijb
s>
eC 1
'ims
H/GH-CLASS COMFORTS.
BUCHANAN # OTARD-DUPUY
WHISKY BRANDY
QUALITY and AGE.
ħ
CEAV^riETTeS
TZix/lish ARE ™^ EALrABR 'cs
§V RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
. Sydney, July 17, 1906.
My Dear Arini.—
Good old King Edward keeps his eyesight and
festivious taste in beauty. When Miss Eileen
Ward, daughter of the beknighted Joseph Ward
of Maoriland, was “presented” early last month
by the Countess of Crewe (one of the Rosebery
girls), the great Ned asked Earl Rosebery later
on in the supper room (since Victoria’s death the
Presented get some refreshment) about the young
Maorilauder and made some complimentary com-
ments.
Some three hundred ladies and gentlemen went
to Cabanta on Saturday to nurse the entente
cordiale and rejoice over the fall of the Bastille,
lo the French mind the Fall of Man is but a cir-
cumstance compared with the fall of their old
gaol. But the latter is a good excuse for a yearly
ou tmg and a champagne sparkle. Miss Rawson
and his Fx. ate some of the festive Frog at the
luncheon, and the latter complimented the French
Consul on the honor he paid the Great British
1 eople when he toasted the King before the
President. After that there was nothing for him
Garry) to do but to throw up his cocked hat
and wish every happiness and prosperity to the
Great JJrenoh Nation. Minister for Lands
Ashton then arose and also stroked the French
fur the right way. France had given the world
the greatest military genius since the days of
Julius Caesar (why drag in J. Caesar?); then he
got at short range and patted one of the guests
Dr. Danysz, who holds the fate of the Great
Australian Rabbit in the hollow of his glass tube.
Phis State will in August lay back its ears and
say Ida ! ida ! like the Biblical war horse. For we
are to . a Horse Show that month.
And the Show is to become an annual institution.
A country that worships the Horse as this
does will surely turnout m large round numbers
to make the show a success, and one of its side
features will inevitably be a Dress Parade. The
biggest Society function in New York is the
Horse Show. Now that our Spring Races have
been put back from September to October, we
would feel that we nad been too long in Spring
pickle if it were not for the promised Horse
Snow. One of the best judges of a neigh now
infesting Sydney is the lirst-ciass sport, Mr. John
laylor, of Quirmdi, who buys horses for the
Imperial Govt, and its allies, the Japs. He it
was who, after securing some ponies to Lady
Hopetoun s order last tune she was here, bluffed her
off fromseeing them until they were ready for show.
She commanded the presence of the animals. “ If
you saw them now you wouldn’t keep them ” was
the horse gospel according to John. “I can
make allowances,” haughtily replied the lady
lm not taking any chances,” said the horseman.
But when she did see them, she just fell on their
necks and stroked their long, soft ears.
Most stared-at pair at Rosehill races on Satur-
day was a brace of Collier’s “On The Quiet”
men. Iheir American overcoats took the eye.
Onecks like the lattice work on a summer-house
and suggesting a kimono as to make. Which
reminds me that a friend in Chicago says that
the correct thing in summer time for men
is the no : coat. No coat in the street, or house in
the evening. But the shirts, in their pretty pastel
tints, and box-pleated, have a blouse effect.
“America at Work” is stamped even on the
people who have put in a year there. Marie
JNarelle can t walk at the ordinary pace now she
sprints. .And as for little Taliaferro, she skims
along swiftly as a swallow, and it’s a comedietta
w* 011 li>'l6gged Australian man keeping up
Marie Narelle was back in Sydney for two
warbles after a prismatic success in country
towns, where the inhabitants made public holi-
days when she and tenor Fentress broke the
silence with song. Miss Narelle has an endless
string of k email stories, found mostly in America
and as yet innocent of publication. One of them
tells of an Irishman, just arrived in London who
meets a fearfully mutilated soldier seeking alms
money-box in hand. The beggar is minus one leg’
and retains but a stump of the other,’ both arms are
gone, and one ear and an eye are missing The
placard he carries says that his wounds were won
m the Boer war. The Irishman, after a pro-
longed stare, puts a half-sovereisrn into the
money-box, and earns the hysterical thanks of
the mangled warrior. Donor goes his way, but
returns in half-an-hour, and walks around the
beggar making another critical inspection ; then
he puts another half-pound into the box The
soldier, now weeping for gratitude, asks an
explanation. “ Faith, I’ll tell ye,” said Pat • “it’s
because you are the first English soldier I’ve seen
trimmed to me liking.”
Miss Narelle s triumphant home-coming is
darkened with sadness by the death of her
mother. Mrs. Ryan died suddenly last night, and
the soprano s country tour will suffer a short in-
terruption.
Beggars and begging letters are flies in the
amber of every Australian singer of note
who comes back in triumph to Sydney. Ada
Grossley was swamped with both. But for all
her graciousness and geniality, no one knew better
than Ada how to keep the salary-hook closed
over her profits She was not to be taken in by
the lady, the widow of an aristocrat, who wanted
a new horse and buggy to carry her vegetables to
market, the old trap being all tied up with rope
a “ d , tbe , horse m use bein S a Willie-goat. And
she didn t weep over the tearful party in rusty
biack who knew the contralto as a girl and always
paid to hear her sing. I think it was Amy Castles
who, while here got a letter entreating £5, the
refusal of which “would compel the writer to sell
her soul. Mane Narelle, overflowing with pity
EW 7 t 0 the P°°r exiles from
Erin who think that, because she had a dinner
with a herd of millionaires in America, she must
be wel inoculated with millionitis herself. Hence
she s always being taken down, and knows it
Sydney is frightfully dull, and for lack of news
a little sketch :
Tug Soul and the Casket.
At her first ball Isabel’s first dance was with a hand-
some aide-de-camp, rather spoilt by the admiration of
Women. “ That girl,” he told a friend the day after the
ball, “ looked so promising for a conservatory sit-out that
I programmed her for four dances at sight. Hair of sun-
shine, eyes of midnight, seventeen years, and such beauti-
fully cushioned elbows. How dare a woman belie her
personal appearance ! What d’ye think she tried to talk
to me about? ‘The following of Christ,’ and a person
named Loyola, who wrote the book. She’s a fish in cold
storage.”
The phrase got around among Isabel’s set as one that
fitted her without a crease. She went back to the station
where the South Australian wattle clump grew on the sun-
set side of a little hill, and dreamed and worked over her
verse-making. She used to sit under the wattles when
they were in flower, and showers of yellow spheres would
fall oil her and remind her of the shower of gold that fell
on Dauae. It was here, while looking at a page of states-
men’s portraits in an illustrated paper, that she first heard
the trees sing. Her glance rested a second of time on
each face until the Fifth was reached and that held her
eyes as a fixed bayonet arrests attention. It was then
the trees began to sing Mendelssohn’s Spring Song. She
looked up at them and saw them materialised into the
Spring Song—gold and green and grey.
At night, whilst Isabel slept, her Soul used to leave its
Casket and go out and wander in secret starlit ways,
meeting other souls, but never stopping for commune.
Never, until the night of the day she saw the Fifth Por-
trait.
“ You called me?” The soul of the original of the Fifth
Portrait was hovering by the side of Isabel’s soul.
“ Yes," was the reply. “ Your Casket and mine are
fated to meet. She is at last awake. By all the laws of
man, and the laws, men say, are Hod’s, these two should
stay apart. But—are even two air bubbles so much as
blown together against God’s will?”
“ We have known each other a long, long time,” said
the Fifth Portrait’s soul, looking with large eyes at
Isabel’s other self. “ Even if we would we could not put
off our Caskets’ meeting.”
“We have come up through many ascensions—we’ve
been through most of the jungle and forest beasts,
haven’t we ? ”
“ Except the pig. We never wallowed.”
“ No, we never wallowed. Do you recollect ages and
ages ago in this very region—our Caskets were then ring-
tailed opossums—the forest-fire that was started by vol-
canic fires, and we climbed to the summit of the giant
gum?”
“ * remember. You put your soft nose against my soft
shoulder; then the wide flame lapped us and the next
wind that blew over the blackened land scattered our
ashes. I want to tell my Casket that I have seen yours.”
The souls flew in by Isabel’s open window, but the
sleeper’s face was hidden in her long hair. “She always
sleeps like that,” said her Soul, apologetically. “It must
be a survival of the time of which we were speaking
when we used to sleep with our faces buried in our furrv
paWs.” J
The Fifth Portrait’s soul hovered off from where it had
been resting on the silver back of one of Isabel’s brushes,
and floated on to the wall, where it hung like a bat. It
seemed to be thinking. Presently it spoke : “ I get very
sick of Caskets. Don’t you ? How stupid they are, and
how vain ! Pin tired of all this donning and dotting. As
soon as death sets me free of one Casket, there’s another
waiting to be filled. I’m sick of the procession of Re-
turned Empties.”
Isabel’s soul hovered up close to the other and huno-
near it like another bat. “I am rather proud of my
present Casket,” replied the girl’s soul. VVe never speak
or think or act unworthily. Other Caskets call her the
‘Fish in Cold Storage.’ It’s their uncouth way of saying
she’s eclectic.”
“O, I’m not undervaluing my Box,’’said the man’s soul,
hastily. “It also harbors things fine and proud, and it is
as strong as chilled steel. But what are we, you and I
going to do about these two? lam fond of mv House—
you of yours. When they meet shall we barricade our
respective refuges against each other? Can we trust them
not to turn on us and try to throw us out ? ”
“ Have no fear. The vital spark in her will burst
into flame when your Casket clasps the hands of mine—
you remember how the volcanic fires set the cool, dim
forest ablaze—he will hold her in-his arms for One moment
we shall hear the seconds of the minute dropping liquid
gold ; then the ice avalanche of two thousand years of
Christian convention, two thousand years of Thou Shalt
Nots will sweep over her, and the fire'is smothered.”
“ That’s all very well for you,” murmured the soul of
the Fifth Portrait, “ for you are a female soul. The man
I inhabit takes mighty little stock of two thousand years
of Don’ts and Musts, tie’s rather given to making his own
laws. Not for nothing has he a jaw like the fender of a
locomotive. But he also obeys a helm, and I am the
helmsman—what is that growing through the window?
The rose of dawn 1 Adieu, adieu. My Casket is an early
waker.”
* * *
Isabel and the statesman met and exchanged common"
places. His smile had in it summer lightning and wild
beast, and by the time he discovered that her diffident
manner was a deliberate mask over the assurance of
social achievement, the day of their parting was there
They were two of a bright company at dinner, and she
was telling him that her taste in food had not been culti-
vated, for her preference was pea-soup.
“ She talks ‘ pea-soup ’ to him,” said Isabel’s soul to the
soul of the man. “These caskets would try to deceive
even us. Yet what I predicted did come about, and we
did hear the sixty seconds of that golden moment drop-
ping around us.” 1
“ Don’t try to pretend that we are not hurt,” said the
male soul. “ I’m going to look for balm for myself.”
Miss Rose Scott, who, now that there is no
female franchise to fight for, turns her gentle but
strong energies to advance other “Woman”
causes, invited a few friends to meet Miss Krout,
American journalist, at “Lynton,” last week!
Miss Krout has had a long experience of journalism
in America, ante-dating the inrush of “Yellow”
papers (for which she has a wholesome contempt);
and, in a short causerie, gave a clear picture of
past and present conditions. The giants of the
old days, Horace Greeley, Whitelaw Reid, and
the like, were described ; and then the modern
newspaper, with its eager sensationalism, its con-
tempt for sobriety of opinion, and its recklessness
in slander. It was a most interesting talk.
Miss Krout notes in American journalism a
marked tendency to make the newspaper a merely
business enterprise; side by side with this goes a
degradation of the journalists’condition. Where
before journalists were decently paid, now the
modern capitalist or Trust, owning a series of
papers, pays a high price for a few big names for
his posters, and gets the bulk of his work done by
cheap, unskilled lads and girls. Women jour-
nalists in America are suffering an unduly large
share of the results of decadence. Whereas in the
old order of things women were trusted with
almost any of the serious work of the newspaper
now they are mostly kept to dress reports and
society scandals.
In improving their premises recently David
Jones and Co., the fashionable Sydney drapers,
added a roof garden for employees; and there in
the heart of the city the saleswomen and others
may enjoy during lunch-hour a feast of fresh air.
It's a good example that other shops might
imitate.
The Yankee press tells a wild story to account
for one fash.enable English woman’s espousal of
Socialism. Years ago, when she was one of the
most beautiful girls in England, she was greatly
admired by the present King Edward. What
happened, nobody exactly knows, but he and the
lady didn’t play speaks afterwards. Now, accord-
ing to the papers of the U.S.A., she is animated
with a desire to get even with His Maj. for what-
ever he did or didn’t, and has taken up Socialism
in anticipation of bringing about a revolution
which will lump King Ned off his throne and
make him ready to come round to her backyard to
ask for a job gardening.
A London correspondent writes that the latest
thing in infant phenomena is Wauda Radford, an
Adelaide-born child ten years old (well-known in
Sydney, where her father is manager of the
A. 8.0. Cafe). She sings, dances, and enacts
scenes from the great tragedies like a miniature
Rachel. Roth Melba and Ellen Terry are giving
her the helping hand, and a crowd of rich Ger-
mans are taking a bulky interest in the little
Australian.
Same correspondent mentions that Sydney
pianist, George Royle, is a success in Berlin,
where Authorities have pronounced some of his
compositions “ masterly ” and “showing genius.”
Concerning other Australians abroad : Miss Nea
White, a daughter of the late “ Havilah ” White,
who went hence under the care of Mrs. Elood, was
married last month to Queensland squatter
Flemich.
As to fashions in London, the latest thing in
foot-gear runs to dainty buckled shoes with hose
to match, in tones of mauve, deep purple, blue, all
shades of foliage green, and biscuit shades. The
black hat is an epidemic. It is trimmed with
colors of course, but there’s a revulsion against
the rainbow hues of last year s straws; hence the
crow head-gear of this.
“ The automobile umbrella that one sees in the
Earks is like a doll s sunshade, but it has the
iuged stick, so that the dome-piece can be tilted
at any angle to shade the face. ’ (One of these
Pans notions was brought to Sydney from London
by Mrs. J. C. Williamson, some four years ago,
but her use of it in a brougham always brought
her an escort of humorous little larrikins, desiring
to know where she got it, and hadn’t she better
employ an umbrella-mender.) “As for men’s
fashions,” continues my correspondent, “the
swagger clubman wears pants so tight that the
mere woman wonders if he lias to be oiled before lie
getsintothem with theaid of ashoehorn. His gloves
are a bright canary-yellow, and glare from a
distance with a Rattle of the Boyne challenge,
and the violence of the shades of his blue, or
green, or mustard tie makes one wish one had put
on blinders before coming out.”
Mrs. Mackenzie Fairfax, who sang here in
Sydney during the Yorks’ visit (she was Miss
Alexander on the professional platform in Lon-
don), is now back to her art. The beautiful David
Anderson girls still continue to make English
.Tohnnydom rise en masse from its Savoy meal and
gasp.
A dinner at Paris House is being given on
Thursday night to Mr. J. R. Woodrutfe Gardam,
Electrical Manager and Engineer of the Empire
Electric Light Go., of Sydney. He visits the old
world in search of new electrical ideas.
Please note the subtle distinction between
people who gad round casually with a Governor
and people who gad officially with his Ex. His
Ex. is accompanied by So-and-So, but he is
attended by Such-and-Such.
The suffocatingly close corporation, the medi-
cal fraternity, which takes a top-lofty view of
the advertisement question, has broken out in
a fresh place at Wanganui (M.L.). In birth noti-
fications printed lately it is intimated that
“ mother and child are both doing well under the
care of Dr. .” This lets every matron in
town and up suburban lanes know who is attend-
ing Mrs. Birthrate, and a better advt. the good
dear doctah couldn't wish for. No woman ever
misses that column.
I see that J. W. Bottrell, president of the Vic.
Vegetarian Society, says that, instead of building
an Ifiebriates Retreat, the Stale, should save
money and effect a more certain cure by board-
ing out its inebriates to fruit-growers. He
alleges that the London Vegetarian Society has a
standing reward of £lO to anyone who will pro-
duce a bona-fide vegetarian drunkard, and the
reward has never been claimed. “ The man who
is fed on a vegetarian diet,” says Bottrell, “has
no craving for drink. ” But it seems possible that
it is simply because his craving and anguish for
meat obliterate his drink hunger. He must have
the meat first. And when he has it he has ceased
to be a vegetarian, and the Vegetable Society
then disclaims all responsibility for his drinking.
Engagement of Mr. Maurice Toohey to
Miss Constance H.iyes, a daughter of the
secretary of Sydney Exchange, has stirred the
Harbor waters somewhat. Bridegroom-elect
is son of the late brewer, J. T. Toohey,
and has some considerable thousands a year.
Mr. Toohey’s sisters and stepmother are in Lon-
don, bending their spines at Royal drawing-rooms,
and having a prismatic time generally. Their
Sydney home, up the North Shore line, is one of
the finest humpies in Australia. The Hayes live
close by, in another attractive home.
Ex-Premier John See has my permission to get
married. I wish he would,; then correspondents
would cease from troubling me with “ authorita-
tive statements” as to his bride-to-be. Latest
mate selected for him is a beautiful young party,
daughter of a deceased merchant. The knight
looks such a fine sport in the line of widowers that
Sydney fully expects him to marry again.
Sydney is once more clear of the sheep men with
their beards like the foliage of the she-oak. The
older ones are a fine, frank-looking lot of green-
hides with big voices and huge laughs.
“ Trixey ” writes from Melbourne
I dislike George Meredith for so cruelly exposing mv
sex : so I willingly went to hear the Australian Literature
Society (or something like it) dissect his works. I arrived
punctually at Glen’s Concert Room to enjov the opera-
tion. The first stages were very depressing. Two gloomy
persons with beards and intellectual-looking evening
clothes, in company with a caraie of water, a single
tumbler, and several cottage pianos, decorated the
platform. They—the men murmured some introduc-
tory remarks to the audience, which numbered about
twenty women and three of the other sex. Then there
was an impressive interval, during which a damsel with a
classic nose and alisp, undulated through the wilderness
of empty chairs, and presented me with a programme
Eventually a gentleman with a fluffy finger and an Ma'
degree drifted into the neighborhood of the water bottle’
He was the star turn. His criticism of the author under
ordeal was limited to frequent platitudes, uttered sonor-
ously, and with appalling dignity. He also “did"
fragments of dialogue from “The Egoist,” and
Richard Feverel.” The sprightly wit of Mrs. Mount-
Stewart Jenkinson, voiced by a seriously minded M \
became lugubrious and awe-inspiring. Sir Willoughby
however, became a living reality. Now, what have elo-
cutionary assaults on English novelists got to do with the
encouragement of Australian literature, and why do
newspapers give space or serious consideration to a show
whose aim seems exclusively mutual admiration?
A note from Adelaide :
Engagement is reported of Miss Sh.vlie Blue to Herbert
R.vnii.ll, both clotted cream, both notable golfers. Miss
Blue is the step-daughter of Adelaide’s only little baronet
and Chief Justice—her father was a country doctor—but
she does not believe in being tied to any apron-strings at
all. She’s a considerably joyful damsel, with a perfect
genius for having a good time. Benedict-to-be is a son of
old Henry Rymill, and of a very conservative stock. The
family has the motoring habit rather more developed
than any other in the train-horse State, and is ever so
rich. Marriage will take place about September.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENRHI.
Judkins and Woodfull make the sensible
suggestion that in Bent’s projected Licensing Bill
a conviction for Sunday or after-hours trading
should be placed to the discredit of the landlord—
i.c., the public-house—as well as the licensee. At
present, as a third conviction entails forfeiture of
the beer-seller’s license, his landlord changes
tenants on a second conviction being recorded,
the incomer starting afresh. But with the con-
victions attached to the house —well, there would
presently be very little Sunday trading or very
few licensed houses remaining.
How is it that the Sydney daily papers
preserved absolute silence over the recent open-
ing of an office in Sydney by the Pacific Cable
Board for dealing directly and conveniently with
the public? The Australian people own a big
share of the Pacific cable. The Pacific Cable
Board notified the opening with big advts., but
received not a paragraph of encouragement. A
private company would have received columns of
compliment and leaders of eulogy. Yet the
morning papers proclaim their public spirit and
devotion to the “ best interests of the country ! ”
But, of course, the syndicated cable news comes
by the rival Eastern Extension line, and that
accounts for the worm in the cocoa-nut
“F.”: You mis-read W. M. Hughes’
Anti-Trust amendment. Note it again, with the
context of the Hill :
Industry means any occupation in which persons are
enj>aged in the production, manufacture or distribution
in any State in the Commonwealth, or the introduction
from foreiyn countries into the Commonwealth , or from
one State to another, of anything having an exchange
value.
That means an effort to bring every calling under
the penal provisions of the Bill, and to make quite
sure that the importer doesn’t escape. Hughes
may be a Freetrader (he says he is), but during
the life of this Parliament he has been a consistent
Australian. He’ll soon strike a crisis at which
he’ll have to shed Australia or Freetrade ; and I
prophesy that Freetrade will go. [And The Bul-
letin accordingly apologises.]
“Loco.” : -Re Sydney tram-driver’s suicide
(B. 5/7/’OG, p. 12). I sincerely sympathise with the
tram-driver’s relatives. As a train-driver I have
many similar nerve-smashing experiences. An
instance. Going along with my train, half-a-mile
ahead is a level crossing with cattle pits. Coming
towards the crossing, on the road, is a horse and
cart, with the head of the driver just showing
above the body of the vehicle. I get nearer the
crossing. So does he. I whistle, as per regulations.
No effect. If I apply my brake I shall lose the
momentum I have striven hard to keep up for the
l ast two miles, and perhaps get stuck up on yonder
lin 50 bank. I’ll just about make a dead heat of it
to the crossing with the horse team. I am 200
yards off now. Still seemingly he does not see me,
nor hear my whistle. I must apply my brake
now. I do, and reduce speed enough to let the
cart get over in front of me Just then the driver
stops, sits up, lights his pipe and looks as if he
wonders what on earth the train is going so slow
for. If drivers of vehicles, and others, when
approaching railway crossings, would give some
indication that they see the train, and stop a
reasonable distance back, there would be a lot of
engine-drivers’ valuable nervous systems saved.
VALAZE! —There is magic in the sound, but not so
much magic as in the preparation itself.
An absolutely pure skin food, which will cure the most
obstinate cases of freckles, sunburn, and wrinkles.
Give it a trial, according to directions, for at least two
months. That is all we ask.
Try a jar and prove these assertions.
Price, 3s. (id., or large jar 6s. (containing three times
the amount). Postage fld. Leading chemists or direct
from Helena Rubinstein and Co., 274 Oollins-street,
Melbourne. Dr. L.vkuski’s Special Valaze Blackhead
arid Open Pore Cure, guaranteed to cur e the most ob-
stinate cases, 2s. 6d. a tin, by post 3s. Valaze Herbal
Soap, lasts six months, 2s. a cake. Enclose 3d. in stamps
to cover postage, and we will forward you our latest
edition of the new “ Guide to Beauty,” a book that is full
of most valuable information concerning the skin and
health, and will prove most useful and instructive
to anyone.
Mile. Helena Rubinstein, the Russian Skin and Com-
plexion Specialist, who lately returned from Paris,
Vienna, London, and Russia, will demonstrate the Art of
Face Massage and Face Treatment for home use at
Washington H. Soul’s, 160 Pitt-street, daily till end of
July. Mile. Rubinstein will not accept any consulta-
tion fees.*


Superfluous Hairs Effectually and Per-
manently Destroyed. A lady self cured of this
distressing affliction has a wonderful remedy which com-
pletely destroys the roots of the hairs. After trying
depilatories, electrolysis, and every so-called cure, she
discovered this simple home remedy, which succeeded
when all else had failed. This treatment does not burn
off, it kills the roots, and the most disheartened may
safely and successfully try it. It leaves no scar or mark.
Send Id. stamp for testimonials and booklet on treatment.
Remedy posted, Victoria, 4s. 6d., other States, ss.
“ Tonic,’’CentralChambers, 77Swanston St., Melbourne.*
h
DUNLOP
KELLY
Rubber Tyres
Shwltf be fitted
to »H Private Conveyances
These Durable Tyres—being made
of the Best Rubber—absorb all
Jarring and Vibration—save your
Repair Bill —and Double the Life of
Your Vehicle,
Once used-always used.
The DUmor TIRE C°ofAUs Lrd.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE AND
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.
Durvlop
Rubber
Heels
/or Ease,Com/ort
ixrvd Wear
Stocked irv evil Sizes by All
Boot* Shops.
SPECIFY DUNLOP BRAND
Dunlop Rubber
ALL, STATES
02
AND
i *■—flOSE^Sess^
Supporters.
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
ĥ
LIUx, J SHAPE.
rarm
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 17, 1906.
My Dear Yarrte.—
There are so many aides in the Northcote suite
that the comings and goings of any one of them
is of no concern much. Last year Captain Byng-
Stephens, one of the most painstaking of caddies,
set sail for the Cold Country. No one noticed
the departure. The other day he resumed his
efforts to promote vice-regal circulation, and no
one has yet noticed that either. Same way with
Captain Balmain, the most strenuous of the staff.
He went to the Fog city early last year without
comment, and returned minus any flourish. Not
till he married Miss Fairbairn did any special
notice attach to him. He has now left the staff
for good and all, and no one notices the gap or
misses his energy. It’s a redundant staff at
any time.
The social walk loses another stately prome-
nader in H. M. Chomley, ex-Chief Commissioner
of Police. The tall old man liked to sun
himself where he had once swaggered. Up to
a few months asro he was a venerable beau
of Flemington. He haunted the Terrace with
his Frenchily-dressed wife. He conducted his
social duties as solemnly as his brother
the Judge—conducts Bench matters, and paid
a compliment, when the exigencies of the occasion
demanded one, with the shy awkwardness of a
man who has the duty sense so strongly developed
that nothing short of hanging would keep him
from its doing. Last year H. M. Chomley and
his brisk little wife went travelling in search of
health for him. They returned without having
found it. The Chomleys are a big clan. Half of
Toorak will be put in mourning by his death.
A small—you might say short-coated—party
with music and claret-cup came to pass on
Monday evening at Stonington. It proved a
honKEopathic mixture of officials and socials, and
went down without a hitch. One of the im-
promptu hits of the evening was made by Miss
Winter-living, who played with telling effect.
The two other special features of the musical
hour were Madame Janson and Napoleon Boffard.
Among the favored few was Miss Buckley, of
Beaulieu, just back from a great gad that ended,
unfortunately, in mourning. At these soirees
Dame Talbot unbends somewhat, and passes her
smile so gladly round on the company that her
very greyness assumes a warm radiance.
The charmer hereabouts is wearing her skirt
briefer than wit. It's the result of the skating
craze, which requires extremely short garbs and
visible ankles. Miss Atherton, who has been
executing the frozen waltz largely, is an instance.
Her clipper style is a lesson in compact frocking.
It’s skimpy and economic in material, but there’s
a large bill in the sundries—the neck-furs and
muff, and so on.
Premature Spring brought the flutterers
forth in the gayest and frothiest of garb on the
final day of the Flemington meeting. The July
Steeplechase had never produced such a fine and
festive swarm of butterflies. Heads flaunted the
cheerfullest of feathers. In fact, an ostrich farm
seemed to have been let loose on the heads of the
mighty. One notable fashion-plate, who generally
perambulates at Flemington, this day had a few
yards of seaweed-green and lavender ostrich
boas swinging from the rim of her high-crowned
Welsh hat. The two vice-regal dames paraded
in royal purple and mauve tones sables
included in each impressive, instance. A
troop of aides tore their glance now and
then from the racing steeds to see if any ot
the vice-regals required a gamp closed, or carried,
or a yawn suppressed, or a spot removed from the
sun. It s interesting to observe a sporting aide
divide his attention between caddy fulfilments
and the nag he has parted all his tram-fares on.
Bigjohn Forrest had Austin Chapman—the re-
turned Federal Postmaster-General—in tow.
Roman conferences and such have wrought no
sudden change in the suave Minister—unless it
was that he smoked his cigar with excessive tran-
quility.
Mrs. Tom. Fairbairn and Miss Edie Smith,
both returned gadders, sported cream with
small garden-plots for top-gear. Miss Smith
was particularly chic. Mrs. Lindsay Inglis
Struck a check novelty—in purple and claret
velvet. A black hat of some pretensions topped
the rig. Mrs. Gordon Lyon beat all beauties in a
ficelle rig and race-coat, with a shrimp pink and
cardinal millinery triumph. Mrs. B. Bell sported
cream with a round hat, from which depended a
hyacinth-blue shaded feather of languishing grace.
Mrs. Billie Bell is a charmer of wool circles.
The Baltimore crew were at large this race-day.
Commander Stone and his blue-eyed greyish
dame headed the contingent. The officers were
in the tow of various Toorak philanderers. An-
other interest was the theatrical one. The “Squaw ”
stars were out —Miss Humphrey in a pastel-blue
corselet rig, a Lady Dedlock tragedy sort of hat,
flying chiffon and lace tails. She cut a dash, and
was a help to the Terrace picture. Miss Grace
Palotta looked fresh and lovely enough for any-
thing, but she had neglected her dress opportuni-
ties. Her plain rehearsal rig missed the mark.
Miss Eugenie Duggan wore the most wonderful
toilette in the gathering. It was a sooty glace,
with a crusade of silky trills from waist to hem,
and a top tier of still more curious fashion : a coral-
pink summery hat waved its terminal chiffons in
Spring frolicsomeness. Miss Clara Clifton, fresh
from Harborville, struck a cheery dress-note.
The big Saturday “Mexico” audience revelled
in a fresh novelty in the “Tamanee” hit. The three
stars of the co.—Miss Palotta and the two W.’s—
attired in rainbow-striped blankets and head-
mounts consisting of a circle of upended rooster
quills, took part in the wild Indian whoop and
dance, though the song itself fell to Grace. It’s a
screaming burlesque ditty and caper, and after, an
encore, comedian Ward shouldered the Indianess,
bolster fashion, and carried her off amid heavy
charges of applause.
The most sensational canvas in the Vic. Art
Galleries this year of show is Bernard Hall’s
decorative panel-subject, “Sleep.” There are
three figures, the one suggesting the title being
stretched nude at full length. It is too taut. That
rigidity alone mars a work rich in color and in
treatment. The marble of the bench, and the
mosaic floor of the classic lounge are both
finely depicted. But Bernard Hall’s formality of
mind mars any imaginative work. He wants
breadth and independence to put the requisite
feeling into his art. Blamire Young’s chief de-
corative panel is a deliciously warm, brilliant work.
A slight, dark-haired, woman stands naked to
the waist, with heavy claret draperies swirling
around her feet. A back-ground of deep electric
blue supplies a contrast. In the ambitious can-
vas showing a very long-necked Lady Franklin,
perched like a stuffed cockatoo at an alleged
reception of early Victorians at Fawkner Hotel,
Blamire Young is not so successful. The group-
ing of figures and the treatment of color is good
everywhere, but in the show of heads, the men
have sharp blade-noses, tooth-ache cheeks and
unnatural complexions., It's a big, expensive
canvas with only a little Young art spread on it.
Arthur Boyd, F. M'Cubbin, F. Hayward, and A.
Colq u houn are represented by meritorious canvases.
Among the she-daubers, Miss E. Rix strikes a
new bold note as a decorative paneller working
on Arcadian lines. Miss Helen Hambidge
has her name to a fine portrait of - a
chocolate-haired beauty. Miss Fabiola Tuomy,
Mrs. Muntz-Adams and Miss Amy Bosworth
haven’t to blush for their pigment effects.
The announcement that the Talbot Dame was
showing at the annual spread of Victorian Artists’
canvas proved a potent attraction. At the open-
ing one couldn’t see pictures for people. Dame
Talbot’s contribution to the collection is a most
curious memorial tablet, a silk tapestry design,
with a frame of wood, silver and mother of
pearl, which has the virtue of being Australian.
The design is of a gay fern-spreading Spring order,
the green of the fern being contrasted with a glad
blue ground. There is a text to the north of the
fine delicate needlework (which is really perfectly
done) and a musical scrap of hymn to the south—
the latter, notes and words, being effected in
beaten silver. The whole thing is rather too glad
to be a memorial tablet, but it s genuinely pretty.
Miss Grace Joel (a cousin of Mrs. 1. Isaacs) is
holding an exhibition of canvases on her own.
The Athenaeum Hall, voted the solemnest build-
ing about, is the scene. The gloom of the en-
vironment probably aids the thoughts in concen-
trating on the pictures. Miss Joel has had three
of her pictures hung on the Paris Salon walls of
1901, 1903, and 1905. The first attraction about
this returned artiste’s show is the poetic and fit
labels of her work. “ The Beaten Path of Years ”
is an instance, showing an old country road
bearing the indent of a long procession of waggon
wheels. The expressive back of a tired middle-
aged wife, seated facing the track, and a sugges-
tion of a homestead, provide atmosphere to a
well-treated subject. “ 'The Dying Year ”is an-
other thought. poetically rendered into paint.
“ The Sun Goeth Down” is a third trifle grace-
fully expressed in pigment. The most popular
canvas is “ Her Child,” an excellently rendered
picture of a mother gazing with wistful tender-
ness on the sleeping infant in her lap. The figures
are well drawn, the flesh tints are natural, the ex-
pression is adequate. This was a canvas eulo-
gised by artist Watts and other authorities at last
year’s Salon. “Paint Me” and “We Two” are
pictures of some humor and skill. As a portraitist
Miss Joel is most successful in her picture of John
Cockburn. The ex-Agent-General sits in a quiet
watchful attitude, as he would at a Board meeting.
There is a kindly gleam in his eyes. The vitality
of the man is fully expressed. It is a cleverly
caught likeness, and full of abundant vigor in
repose.
A wattle wedding broke through the monotony
of cafe sing-songs and picture shows last week.
This was the marriage of a squatteress in her own
girlish right—Miss Olive Ed wick to a martial
blade, Mr. Frank Stogdale, who once was a
dandy of the Rupertswood battery, but warriors
elsewhere now. The wedding was a very smart
affair, St. Peter’s the scene of the. ceremony.
The Grand Hotel was marked for the glass-
clinking and kindred felicitations. The reception-
room was a golden-bower in a blaze of wattle.
From a triple gateway depended wedding-bells.
Doves were about, and true love-knots had a say
in the poetic scheme. The wedding-cake was a
triumph of ingenious confection. It symbolised
the martial character of the groom. Silver
bayonets pointed up from the base ; silver cannon
lay about ; silver shot huddled radiantly on the
lower tier. And the interior, if consumed, would
probably prove more deadly than shrapnel. But,
fortunately, wedding-cakes are rarely consumed.
Miss Ed wick brided it in snowy chiffons, and
made a fair picture. She is pretty, and her style
of garbing effective.
A motor maniac leaves this Bent State for Ger-
many shortly, and quite a drove of the fair will
raise a dirgeful cry. His machine has whirred
glad parties all through Victoria. But in a
week or two it will whirr no more with him at the
helm.
Lady Le Hunte and her chick set sail for the
Cold Country this Spring bloom, and the vice-
regal residence will be given over to the moth and
rust , and Sir George for a year. His Ex. will
work out his grass-widowerhood in tours of the
land and in sitting for his photograph—a weakness
of his. .
Mrs. Kenric Brodribb gave a smart dance at her
East Melbourne mansion last Tuesday to launch
her youngest chick into the social world. The
said chick is a clever young Miss with russet hair
awave on a clever head. Her front name is Noel.
A Miss Bird, daughter of the surgeon, was pro-
claimed a grown-up and a person come to the use
of reason the same gay evening.
Miss Alice Mills has struck a new note in
miniature effects. It’s an attractive one ; and it’s
something of a trick. A faint photograph is used
as a groundwork, and on this Miss Mills employs
her clever brushes till the completed work repre-
sents either an excellent water-color portrait or
a dainty miniature. The effect is highly artistic,
and has the virtue of being true in likeness.
An Australian he-touris.fr complains that the
haunting cry in the Big Smoke is “conform ’ !
There is always something or someone you must
conform to. The cry never ceases. “To be in
it,’’ he writes, “one must conform in dress, in
manner, in speech, in thought, in face and feature.”
Dr. Frank Liddell has withdrawn his brass-
plate from Oollins-street. He intends toot-tooting
round the country in a petrol car of his own when
House of Heps, worries require not his exquisite
presence. The medico divides his interest equally
among pills, politics and petticoats,
Hugh Ward, who met Miss Leila Doubleday in
Sydney, and was much impressed with her
playing, shows his generous interest in the child
now. by arranging a matinee for her in the
Princess Theatre for the 26th inst. Willoughby
and Ward give the theatre free and provide all
services; Mrs. Hugh Ward (who rejoins her
husband in Australia this month) will contribute
to the programme, and as she is a musician of
distinction that will be a great “draw”; and
further, Grace Palotta and Hugh Ward will add
to the attractions of the entertainment. It’s a
real generous thing of “ Hugliie” to interest
himself so materially in the little Doubleday’s
success : the incident explains to some extent the
hearty grip that he has got of the affections of
Australian audiences.
Among the axe-wielders showing at Fitzgerald’s
Circus building last week was a young Tasmanian
about whom the few she-things who attended the
carnival went into ecstasies. He was an Apollo
six feet four inches high, with a pinky-brown com-
plexion, the features of a beauty-actor, a melting
brown eye, and a small, rosy mouth. Where the
older champion spat on his hands and assailed
his log in a rough-and ready fashion, the long,
brown Apollo gracefully sketched on the tree-
trunk the lines along which he intended the chips
to fly, and generally stage-managed his turn with
consummate art, while greedy female eyes lost not
a quiver of his beautiful muscles. And, my word,
Apollo could chop ! His beauteous young limbs
sent the lumps of wood flying with the wartiest
old champion of them all. He suggested a new
melodrama—where the stalwart backwoods hero
will chop down enough trees in five minutes to
make a bridge, over which the heroine will scuttle
gracefully out of reach of the flood, which the
villain has let loose on her home from a burst dam.
Miss Drummond, the intelligent young person
at present guesting at the greater Government
House, is the daughter of a very old friend of
Lady Northcote.
Something unique in the way of hops was given
in the Masonic Hall, t’other evening, by the
management of the Grand Hotel to its em-
ployees. All the staff turned out minus brass
buttons or cap and apron, to polka through a
lengthy programme. A gay band kept them in
action, and large mirrors reflected the glad scene
on all sides. It made one ponder on the levelling
effect of cloth and chiffon. The gathering had a
large share of good looks (these same being an
asset in the registry-offices), and was particularly
well-groomed and well turned-out. The Maid of
the Mop in decolletd rig is much after the pattern
of the Toorak fashionable ; and the hall-porter in
polka-tails is a finer specimen than many fashion-
ablemen. I saw a lift-boy two-stepa dainty maid of
the mop through a Lancers with far more grace and
ease than you find in any opening official quad-
rille anywhere. It should teach the wealthy
hotel-dwellers to conduct themselves, for -the
attendants evidently know how things should be
done; and do them when off duty with any
amount of empressement.
Madame Agnes .Janson bills herself for an
operatic performance on Tuesday, the 24th.
Sharing in the show are ’cellist Hattenbach,
Miss Barclay, and Harold Elvins.
The death of Mrs. S. Oliver, last Thursday
profoundly affected Toorak. The deceased lady
was very beautiful, a model of all the domestic
virtues, and, furthermore, was bright and inte-
resting. The woman who is all these things, and,
shining above all her contemporaries, yet stands
aloof from all questionable gaiety or frivolity,
becomes a paragon ; her happy, sunny nature and
frank, bright manner saved her from being a prig.
A husband and a daughter (Mrs. Stuart Murray)
are the saddest losers by her death, though several
sisters and a host of cousins are all in sincere
mourning.
The hat that is built while you wait has arrived.
It is on the fresh-air principle. You go to a
florist who has the millinery knack and buy a
crown of roses or clump of daffodils, and get it
pinned to your skull or the lining of your hair,
and there you are. You may have a straw rim
skewered around the head bouquet if you like.
That’s if you’re particular. Otherwise you just
go forth decorated with fresh flowers and foliage.
Presently we’ll be getting our frocks on the pound-
in-the-slot principle.
Lady Northcote has been paying visits to
a popular Collins-street dentist (a leading
What vast sums ladies will cheerfully spend on
dress and at the same time totally neglect their com-
plexions ; or, what is infinitely worse, cover a rough, coarse
skin with injurious paint and powder—a subterfuge
apparent to all but the most vulgar ! In times gone-by
such foolish methods were excusable ; but science has
made such strides in recent years that ladies troubled
with wrinkles, pimples, freckles or any facial blemish
need no longer worry. They have now a most reliable
and dainty cure in Patti’s Beauty Cream, which has added
three years of the highest Australasian reputation to a
quarter of a century of the most distinguished European
appreciation as the only perfect skin food and complexion
beautifier. It is found on the toilet tables of every lady
of refinement, because it is absolutely pure, harmless,
and a perfectly natural and never-failing remedy for all
complexion troubles, no matter how bad they may be. It
instantly clears the skin of all pimples, rash, &c., caused
by injurious concoctions and imitations against which
ladi es are cautioned. All chemists and stores, price 3s. 6d.
and 6s. per pot.*
Savage Club spirit), and having her teetl
tipped with fragments of Australian gold. And
it is told wit'* bated breath, that she sat in.
the common or gisrden chair for the operation,
and acted much better than most she-patients.
who scream at sight of a glass of tepid water anc
yell blue murder when the magnifier is introduced
to tli© tooth of most trouble.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
-REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at 1/-, 2/6, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal - note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
When bronchial tubes of fell catarrh
Give no uncertain hint,
The best of cures both near and far
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint.
The truth is great and will prevail—
His blessings will endure —
These are the virtues that we hail
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteract the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley and the curative
Juniper berry, distilled in Holland.*
pis
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Cratis.
This Elastic Truss
si
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
istheacmeofcomfort.made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.),
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Reid speaks in Queensland of “when I
was Prime Minister.” And he was never any-
thing more than a vulgar fraction of a Prime
Minister.
Celebrations of the 12th of Juliars went
very flat this year. Is Australia getting wisely
sick of Orangeism ?
Vida Goldstein will be in the Victorian
field again for the Senate next election.
“ Squidge ” : No one seems to have yet
thought of altering the name of Australia to
Owestralia. [Better to alter the policy, and not
have an Owestralia.—Ed. B.]
The cool, calm Irvine, who is now court-
ing the Flinders (Vic.) farmers, has gone right
back on his one-time land-tax principles. Yet he
used to be the boss icicle of the Single Tax
League.
Hailstone Irvine, standing for Flinders,
Vic., announces himself “a moderate Protection-
ist.” The Age wants to know what a moderate
Protectionist is. That’s an easy one. A moderate
Protectionist is a moderate freetrader.
THE STRANGLE HOLD.
Catch-as-catch-can contest between Local Industries
and the Terrible Trust.
THE REFEREE: “Foul!”
Maoriland has rejected 47 white immi-
grants in three years. Forty of these were Dagos
of sorts who failed in the tongue test. Only
seven were Anglo-Saxons, but three of those were
consumptives and four were insane. All the con-
sumptives came from London.
Cameron, M.H.R., who alleged that he
held the fate of the Reid mis-Government in the
hollow of his hand a couple of years ago, and
made himself notorious solely by keeping his
mouth shut, is to be opposed by Dr. M’Call, an
ex-Chief Secretary of Tas., and a Protectionist
who undertakes to vote Protection.
Dismal Dick Butler, S.A.’s champion in
the whine industry, grizzled for two hours upon
the Address-in-Reply, almost entirely on the sin-
fulness of his deposition from office, which is the
one subject that fills his small mind. Everything
that Tom Price says aggravates the offence, and
the humorless shadow even complained bitterly,
in his opening speech, that Price had allegedly
claimed he could trace his ancestors back for gene-
rations.
At a Women’s National League meeting
at Heidelberg (Vic.) —a “drawing-room” meeting
—the lecturer told her “ pupils ” that all the in-
formation they required would be found in the
Aegus and (ye gods !) Melbourne Paunch.
In Canada, it seems, it’s a decent and
worthy thing to lie for one’s country. In Aus-
tralia the influential fashion is to lie against one’s
country. Better not to lie at all. But the Cana-
dian liar is far the more admirable sample of the
two.
Frank Tudor, M.H.R., Vic., praising
liis party at Malvern the other night—“ There are
more local preachers and Sunday School teachers
in the Labor party than in all the other parties in
I arliament put together.” Certainly that kind of
self-praise is no recommendation.
“Mr. Irvine’s limited Protection put him
in mind of a garden full of fine fruit protected by
a chained dog. The dog, if free, could protect
the gaiden, but chained, was no use. They
wanted not limited, but adequate and complete,
Protection.”— Hume Cook, M.H.R.
As much as £5 an acre rent is being paid
for first-class sugar land in North Queensland —at
Geraldton and other places. Presently the man
who is paying £5 a year an acre for land, that was
got freehold from the State for about 10s., will say
that he can’t afford to keep a white laborer.
What he really may not be able to afford is to
keep a white loafer.
In the Argentine just now State Enter-
prise is giving Private Enterprise a very rude
lesson. Private Enterprise couldn’t or wouldn’t
make boots for the army at moderate prices,
because of Trusts and other tilings, so, three years
ago, the State started a factory of its own, and so
well did it succeed that now it is going in for
making saddles and other gear for the police and
soldiery.
Maorilanders are becoming gradually im-
bued with the commendable notion that they can
make things quite as well as foreigners. Wel-
lington city council is spending another £7OOO on
tram-cars, and it is stipulated that they shall be
made locally; and Christchurch is adopting a
similar policy. It is unlikely that the Railway
Department will ever send away for more engines,
and its carriages have long been made in the
State.
‘ ‘ If industries cannot be established with-
out Protection, let the Commonwealth Govern-
ment establish them, because then we can be quite
sure of the condition of factories, and proper
wages being paid, and of decent hours being kept.
There would be no one to sweat, because there
would be no one to make.a profit.”— Anti-Socialist
Reid , crying out for Socialism at Toowoomba (Q.),
in 1901. (We have printed this before, but
reprinting just now is opportune.)
What the bursting up of big sheep and
oattlo walks, by means of a graduated land-tax,
would mean to Australia may be gauged by
statistics collected by the N.S.W. Railways some
years ago. Two areas, of 10,000 acres each, one
under cultivation, the other under sheep, and both
300 miles from Sydney, were selected as a means
of ascertaining the relative value of the two in-
dustries to the railways. The agricultual area
panned out £3lOO, the pastoral one £9O.
No sooner has Premier Bent expressed his
intention of making a high municipal rate more
advantageous than a low one, in the matter of the
municipal subsidy, than the swindling land-
owners begin to work points on him.
Hitherto the subsidy a shire received was
calculated on its revenue
from rates up to Is. in
the £ (the shire that
taxed itself at 2s. in the
£ got no more subsidy,
proportionately, than the
one that levied a rate of
Is. only). Bent proposes
to make the subsidy apply
only to shires that levy a
rate of Is. 6d. in the £, as
an inducement to the
farmer person to pay at
least half-a-crown him-
self before he asks the
State for two shillings.
The landowner noted
Thomas’s remarks —like-
wise his proposals to
increase the subsidy—
with pleasure, and rose
all over the country to
remark that it would be
easyto get more subsidy
by raising the rate and
lowering the valuation,
whereby the rate of Is.
6d. would cost him no
more than that of Is.
Bent threatened to ap-
point Government valuers, whereupon the ag-
gregate councillor person arose again in great
heat and remarked that “he was capable
of doing his own business, and that if Mr.
Bent went too far he would find that the
people would soon put him out of office.” But
Thomas knows the tricky, dishonest councillor
person by heart, and is weary of him, and the
chances are he will keep a stiff back this time.
From M.L. :
The undemocratic attempt to found a Seddon dynasty
—for that is what the move to foist 22-year-old Tom
Seddon on to the constituency that his late father repre-
sented amounted to—was successful after a heavy engage-
ment with deceased Seddon’s late lieutenant (one Michel).
Young Seddon is a likeable young fellow, with a good deal
of his father’s personal charm, and possibly some of his
ability ; but hitherto his political achievements have been
confined to debates in Victoria College (Wellington)
debating society, and his toil has been wholly at law
“ swatting.”
. For really first-class lying the she-politi-
cian takes the anna and the sapphires, and any
other cash and jewels going. Women’s National
League in Victoria commits itself to the state-
ment that the Labor party proposes to put a tax
up to 4 per cent, on the capital value of all estates
over £5OOO in value. And the proposed tax on an
estate of £lO,OOO (unimproved) would be £lO,
whilst 4 per cent, on £lO,OOO would be £4OO. It’s
a fine lie, and puts all male political records to
the blush.
“THE FAMILY—AS WE KNOW IT!”
Until the family—as we know it—disappears the ideal co-operative Commonwealth cannot be realised.—Altars.
The Queensland Employers’ Federation,
in a denial containing a large percentage of in-
dignant snort, has publicly declared that it did
not invite George Reid to Bananaland. Reid’s
half-hearted anti-Socialism doesn’t inspire confi-
dence in a crowd which wanted a fine old mouldy
remnant just out of the Ark. Or perhaps Reid
winked the other eye to the Employers’ Fed. to
give the denial. To go under the auspices of that
body in Q. is deadly.
An average yield of 10 bushels of wheat
per acre is fair for Australia. That yield produces
a big surplus for export, and it will be so while
our population-increase drags along at the rate of
some over-populated old country. The Australian
wheat producer has to accept for his export surplus
about lid. per bushel less than the quotation in
London. That lid. hits the cocky hard ; it is
equivalent to 9s. 2d. per acre when the average is
10 bushels, and it is a graduated burden on the
land as production is increased. It is because of
this fact that Protection, with the consequent
industrial expansion and increase of local popula-
tion, is a matter of urgent importance to farmers.
Premier Bent has an idea of starting a
tourist bureau on the lines of those of N.S.W.
and M.L. To this end, he has transferred from
the Railway Department a live young man who
has been collecting wheat freights, given him the
munificent rise of £lO a year, bringing his salary
up to £250, and sent him off to M.L. to investi-
gate the methods of that land. When he returns,
Tom intends to turn him loose in an office and
tell him to get to work. He is to have no other
assistance; but will write ads., design posters,
hustle into a uniform to personally conduct dis-
tinguished strangers round the Chow quarter,
and perform the mysterious mission known as
“organising the department” in his spare time.
“Two Seas” : Don’t know how the Shires
Bill is going to act in this State, but I do
know that if it operates anything like the
Tassy instrument, poor old Fat will drum on
his bingy like an enraged chimpanzee, and say
that capital is being driven out again. In
Tassy, when a would-be buyer of a farm or
grazing property goes to inspect, he usually
drops in at the local warden’s office to look
at the assessment books m which the capital
and annual values of the place are to be
found. The owner will probably ask at
least twice as much. On his return the buyer
will be way-laid by the genial warden (the
Tassies are a friendly people) and over a
whisky the warden will inquire: “By the
way, what is Blank asking for his property ?”
Buyer mentions a sum that makes the warden
grin. Result: Another indignant Fat writing
to the papers about increased assessments
and how capital is flying from the country
with its tail streaming in the wind.
The Victorian Lands Department is
wrestling with the demand of a bee farmer that
his legal position be defined in view of the fact
that a neighboring grazier has threatened to shoot
all his blooming bees. The person complained of
must have some confidence in his skill as a marks-
man. Possibly a close season for bees will be
do dared.
The appointments of secretaries by the
newly-appointed N.S.W. temporary shire coun-
cils show the prevailing wage to be £2 10s. per
week. A few are paying £3, and Queanbeyan
shire has shocked the frugal soul of Joey Carru-
thers by giving £5. Some, however, are giving
only £l, others £1 ss. One careful council is
giving £1 4s. 6d., while another has reached bed-
rock by offering £5O per annum.
The Victorian P.L.C. is discovering that
the gun it treacherously turned on its Liberal
friends—Higgins, Mauger and Co.—shoots back-
wards. Having invited J. C. Watson to do a
little organising work in Bent’s State, that gentle-
man curtly and properly declined, on the ground
that to do so would, either directly or indirectly,
injure those whom he had given his word should
not be opposed.
The Jap Government recently initiated
Government silk-grading, and the Australian im-
porter (amongst others) will now receive with each
length of cloth a Government guarantee as to
length, weight, and quality in each of three
grades. Strange to say, the Australian importer
hasn’t hastily risen to furiously denounce this
Government “interference with private enter-
prise.” So far, evidently, the enormity of the
said “interference” applies only when the Aus-
tralian Commerce Act essays to return the
Monkey (amongst others) as (compulsorily) honest
a deal as he (compulsorily) gives.
Vic. Premier Bent’s habit of bellowing at
large has just got him into a fair-sized difficulty.
Advocating his proposed Licensing Amending
Bill, at Brighton, lie stated that at the alleged pro-
hibition township of Mildura liquor could be freely
obtained at the chemists’ shops. There are liquor
clubs at Mildura, but it happens there is only one
chemist, who is a strict Rech'abite, and he has
been speaking firmly to Thomas and wanting to
know why he shouldn’t claim damages for slander
and injury to business and reputation and so forth.
Just Another case of Capital being scared
out of Australia. A top-hatted man, wearing a
coat of great area tailorwards, travelled down the
Queensland coast recently, and told each day that
he had come out to invest £1,399,829 6s. 6d. in
mining and railway enterprises, but found he could
employ nothing but white labor, and so was
leaving the country. A fellow passenger visiting
a hairdresser’s shop, the day after the boat touched
Brisbane, found Private Enterprise lathering a
customer in splendid style. Presumably he had
enough confidence in the country to invest his
£1,399,829 6s. fid. in shaving gear.
Now that Richard Seddon is dead, what
are the chances of Australian interests in the
New Hebrides receiving serious consideration by
Britain ? Spurred by Seddon during his visit,
Deakin joined in a request that the terms of the
proposed Anglo-French agreement should be
made public. Seddon made to a Presbyterian
deputation the grave statement that, “if the
terms of the draft agreement were made known,
it would be apparent how urgent the necessity
for the deputation was.” Now Seddon is dead,
and Deakin has received the reply. It is that
“ publication would impede the endeavors to give
effect to any alterations suggested by Australia
and Maoriland.” In this, Deakin has affably
acquiesced, and Seddon’s forcible views have gone
with him 6ft. underground.
AN OFFER.
Mr. Reid’s Bundaberg (Q.) meeting was held in the
local theatre hired from a theatrical co. for the evening.
News Item.
STAGE MANAGER: “ Sir , I feel bound to accept
your offer; but, at the same time, I cannot
help saying I would much rather that you
joined forces with us and gave your harle.
quinade as part of ode show, and split the
proceeds .”
No wonder Yic. Chamber of Manufactures
president Joshua, says “talk of the intended
political confiscation of the Labor party makes
him ill.” It was the Free trade party, that is
always blathering thusly, that confiscated his
living ; when Aloysius Fox lobbied the Parliamen-
tary Foreign-traders and some fool Laborites so
successfully that the old Victorian protection on
spirits was reduced almost to vanishing point, he
—acting for his employers, the spirit importers
—practically confiscated Joshua’s property and
business. And all the Foreign-traders did was to
dispute their agent’s bill.
G. H. Reid on White Australia at Towns-
ville (Q.): —
He could not promise that he would do anything to
reverse the “ White Australia ” policy, or to increase the
protection of sugar. If there was to be a change, it would
have to be brought about by public opinion, and the first
duty of those in Queensland who objected to the Federal
policy was to change the public opinion of the State,
and send to Parliament .men who would represent that
opinion.
He “could not” —not “would not,” be it observed,
G.H.R. hints plainly his readiness to turn
pro-nigger the moment there is safety in thq
wriggle.
VIC. TOPICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Bent, in an ordinary tone, recently announced his
intention of spending over a million, and when the House
inquired in a faint gasp for details, he asked them, in a
gentle, reassuring voice, to wait a minute while he looked
it up.
This is the chorus Victorian, sung in a moment of leisure ;
This is the song of Bent Thomas —his prophets and seers,
Set in a very long-winded, Longfelonian measure
Written and blotted and chanted just as it appears.
Others less powerful wanted and wept and derided,
While others raved on the benches, or got in a stew,
Thomas B. quietly mentioned that he had decided,
In a spare moment, to lay out a million—or two.
Loud was the blast, but the yells of the members weie
louder,
Wherefore and whither and whatnot the mildest they
said,
Thomas B. smiling, and seeming, if anything, prouder,
Told them he’d tell them more later, and went home to
bed.
Scorn of the Detail Delicious! O Regal Magnificence,
really
Impressive and quite overwhelming, deserving the scone ;
Glamor and Glory and—one or two other things nearly—
But lam choked with emotion—l cannot go on !
VIC.
KODAR.


■
Sterling Value!
Xshe
CALLAGHAN
“ SPECIAL ” Boot,
for Ladies,
In Fine Glace Kid, Stylish
Patent Caps, to Lace or
Button,
15/11,
Boots Exchanged.
Money Refunded.
POST and DUTY PAID,
INCLUDING W.A.,
16/6
“Messrs. Callaghan & Son.
“The Boots arrived safely, and, AS USUAL, I am WELL
PLEASED with them. —G.G.C., Tooloom, via Drake.”
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George St.
SYDNEY.
HAVE YOU CAUGHT IT?
The Post Card craze is still raging', and is proving more contagious than ever, consequently you are
bound to have an attack ; therefore make arrangements to get your supply direct from us, who
are the largest publishers and importers in Australia. We mention a few leading lines.
The Art Series of Post Cards—printed in colors, con-
taining: a range of 106 different sets. Price Is
per dozen post free. Comprising Views
of Sydney and Harbor, beauty spots of Lane Cove,
Parramatta and Nepean Rivers, National Park,
South Coast, Station Life, Mountain Scenery,
Rough Seas, Australian Birds arid Animals, Wild
Flowers, &c. The most complete range of sub-
jects depicted in Post Cards.
No. 28 Series. A beautiful set of well-known actresses
containing six cards —post free 6d.
Raphael Tuck’s Celebrated Art Cards, comprising
Views of the Beauty Spots (in colours) of Eng-
land, Ireland, and Scotland ; price, 2d. each, or
six for 9d. France, Germany and Japan, etc.,
2d. each, or six for 9d.
Photos, of Popular and Celebrated Actresses,
Coloured, 4d. each.
Photos, of Celebrated and Popular Actresses,
Coloured and Tinselled, Beautiful Works of Art,
sd. each.
Valentines, Choice Collection (in colours), comprising
Views of England, Ireland, Scotland, France,
Germany and Japan; price, 2d. each, or six
for 9d.
Photos, of Celebrated Actresses, in plain Black and
White, 3d.
Photos, of Popular and Celebrated Actresses, in
Black and White, highly enamelled, 4d. each.
COMIC Post Cards in great variety. In this series
can be had works by the most popular Comic
Artists of the day; price, 2d. each, six for 9d.
Classical Series of Beautiful Women, draped and
arranged by the Leading Photographers of the
World.
Plain B. and W. Cards 3d. each I These are Very
Plain Coloured Cards, 4d. each > Choice
Coloured Tinselled Cards, sd. each J Pictures.
All the Art Series Cards are sold at one penny each-
Packets containing 6, price, 6d. ; packets con*
taining 12, price, Is.
THE POST CARD ALBUM
is an essential article to all collectors. In
this line we are also in the lead, being up-
to-date as to Quality, Price, and General
Finish of our Goods. We are just open-
ing a full range purchased direct from the manufacturers, Choice Designs in Covers, and all the latest
Novelties, shapes oblong or square.
ALBUMS to hold 100 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 100 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 160 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 200 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 200 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 300 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 300 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 400 Cards in
ALBUMS to hold 500 Cards in
Art Binding, post free 1/-
Art Binding, post free 1/3
Art Binding, post free 1/9
Art Binding, post free 1/9
Art Binding, post free 2/3
Art Binding, post free 3/-
Art Binding, post free 4/3
Art Binding, post free 5/-
Art Binding, post free 7/6
Also CHOICE SELECTION
OF ALBUMS
Beautifully bound in the Very Best Styles:
Shapes, Square and Oblong ; holding from 500
to 750 Cards. Prices : 7/6, 8/6, 3/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/-, 17/6, Post Free. Real High-class
Goods, very suitable for Presents.
A WORD ABOUT GAMES.
In this department we carry a complete range of the latest novelties. Prices as follows
PLAYING CARDS.. .. Bd., Is., Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s. and 2s 3d per pack post free
A SPECIAL LINE OF PLAYING CARDS called The New Zealand. This set is
beautifully finished, and each card contains a view of one of the Celebrated
Beauty Spots of New Zealand. Price 2s. per pack post free. Very Choice.
The New Game, QUIT, most exciting .. 2s 9d post free
CORNER 1s 3d post free
SKY 3s 6d post free
BOBS 6S 9d, 7s 9d, 11 s Gd and 15s post free
DRAUGHTS.. 6d, Is, Is Gd, 2s, 2s 6d, 3s, 3s 6d per set post free
DRAUGHT BOARDS, 7d., 9d., Is 3d, 1s 9d, 2s 3d & 3s 6d post free
DOMINOES, Bd. BONE, 1s 3d, 2s, 3s, 3s 6d and 4s 6d post free
CLUB SET DOMINOES . . .. 8s 6d post free
CRIBBAGE BOARDS, 4d., 6d., 9d., Is., 1s 3d, Is 9d &2s post free
BRIDGE SCORERS 1s 3d post free
CHESS .. Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, ss, 6s 6d, Bs, 8s 6d post free
LUDO 3d, Is 3d and 1s 9d post free
SNAKES AND LADDERS .. Bd, Is 3d and Is 9d post free
DICE P er se t 3d post free
LEATHER DICE CUPS /s 3cf post free
Very Special Compendium of Games —containing: 50 Different Games—with a book
of instructions, Post Free 7s. 6d. Secure one of these at the price.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
And All Branches..
476 George St.
SYDNEY.
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
THE SUPERIORITY
of any material lies in its adaptability
to the purposes for which it is required,
and in its lasting power. The many
uses
OF MALTHOID
are set forth in a Booklet we supply,
post free. Its lasting power is assured
by the fact that it is made from a pure
mineral.
If It is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S, FRIEND & 00.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & 00., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z.
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd.,Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill, N.Z.
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENOY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
552
m.
SSS
Sckcli
from ah
Gram?
bras
etc-etc-
Includi
Sidnor&RLObANl
FITAAmIMSC
Illustrated Catalogue
Post Free on application.
NKOLEPHONES
The Worlds Triumph in Talking Machines.
From £3 lOs. to £l2.
Nicolcpbooc PiSc Records
ABSOLUTELY UNBREAKABLE. . .
AT GREATLY REDUCED PRICES.
THE MARVELLOUS DUPLEX RECORDS.
Containing TWO RECORDS ON ONE DISC.
lOin. . . 5/. each. 7in. - • 2/6 each.
THE UNIVERSAL SINGLE RECORDS.
lOin. • « 3/6 each. 7in. ■ - 1/6 each.
W. G. KING,
SOLE
AGENT,
SYDNEY,
316 George St„
Patent Tmencent
Incandescent Oil Lamp.
EiiS
mm rnmT"
60 Candle Power
for Less than
i One Farthing per
Hour with Ordi-
nary Kerosene.
STAND LAMPS
Complete
from . .
18/6 BACH.
ALSO,
Bracket Hanging [amps
BURNER
Complete
126
Win Fit
Existing Fonts.
h
Welsbach
Incandescent
Acetylene
Gas Burners
Brilliant Light
of 100 Candle
Power.
[Complete
By using these
Incandescent
Burners, con-
sumption of
Acetylene Gas
will be reduced
by half and your
light doubled.
Acetylene Gas
Fittings and
Lamps.
srxs
‘.H F HH
to .ISO '•«
I
iSaiig
:
‘;W*
DOEJf YOUR. LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK
THESE GOODS? IF NOT, WRITE TO s-
WELSBACN LI6NT CO
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Perry Bros., Brisbane.
J. M. Ferguson, Ltd., Perth, W.A.
48 Victoria St*, Wellington, N«Z*
Harold Colton & Co., Adelaide*


Pratt’s Motor Car Sp'rit.
Highest Grade Q 1
American . . . i I VivL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
“Mota” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
A Word About Pills.
Many people have no hesitation ii
dozen bottles of medicine in liquid
scribed by a doctor, but view with
suggestion to take a course of pills.
1 taking a
form, pre-
alarm the
This mis-
*OKS£S
DIRECTIONS
AOn.T3T«*T»r, M ,.fW»
CHILORCN MUu to*
Wnoic Pill Dusouto
hi SwctTr.NKO W*TTB
Take Leibrercfirini
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
apprehension is no doubt
due to the impression that
pills are merely purgative,
which may be correct in
so m e instances. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
however, are not merely
purgatives, acting upon
the bowels only, but con-
tain more important pro-
perties which influence
the liver, the kidneys,
the blood and the whole
system, evidence of which
is not wanting. Thou-
sands of testimonals sent
us voluntarily and gra-
tuitously from all parts of
Australasia verify our
statements of what Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will do and are doing
every day. You will find
neighbors, friends and
relatives everywhere who have been restored to
health and who can testify to the marvellous
blood-purifying and healing properties of these
Pills.
DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS are
a perfect blood purifier and a positive and per-
manent cure for biliousness, indigestion, constipa-
tion, headaches, sallow complexion, liver and
kidney troubles, piles, pimples, boils and blotches,
and for female ailments. • They do not weaken.
Thev do not sicken. They do not gripe.*
ESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. KESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
*
From Flemington Hill, on Steeplechase day :
The bookies were paying out on Decoration when cries
were heard, “ Look ! Look !! There they go. Look at
this one ! o,you brute ! Stop him ! Stopliim !” Faraway
on the Flat below* three or four welchers, spielers or
whatever they might be; were sprinting across the ground
to the bridge. Opposite the Stewards’ stand a scuffling,
fighting crowd surged, from out of which burst a big,
burly man in his shirt sleeves, with a white pith helmet.
Perhaps two score enraged animals followed him, one
waving the welcher’s scarlet coat. He dafted for the
punt, just across the bend ; but before the 300 yards were
covered some pursuers had caught him, while others
Chipped in on the way, just for the lust of a man hunt. He
battled by them, cleared the rails at a spring and crossed
the course. But his luck was out: the punt was at the
other side. Baffled, he turned, and, panting, bleeding,
blundered deviously across the course to the entrance
gates, where he might find troopers and safety.
The maddened mob tore after him. Children were
swarmed over and trodden on ; women showed bleeding
hands and ribboned clothes where the crazy crowd had
stamped on them, reckless of aught but the lust of blood.
The troopers were moving now—too late. One tired his
revolver over the seething heads—in vain. Others rode
straight at the swarm—their horses pranced against a
soft, but unyielding, wall. The victim still staggered on,
till one black-coated coward behind swung a tierce blow
on his right ear, and sent him plunging twenty yards
along on the grass. Then the crowd surged over him,
and kicked, and kicked. A few men tried to stem the
torrent—boxer Ted Nelson was one. As well they might try
to stem the rush of fear-maddened bullocks. Then a couple
of troopers steadily drove their horses to the centre,
where it lay, and presently four men carried away a
stretcher on which was 15 stone of flesh and blood,
bruised, battered, and mud-stained, with its neck broken.
All through the uproar Iltey on the Hill never turned his
face to look ; his raucous voice kept yelling “ I’ll pay
Decoration ; I’ll bet on the July. Six to one lted Streak,
ten to one others.”
The outrage would have disgraced a nigger-
roasting crowd of the southern states of U.S.A. The vic-
tim, Donald JVFLeod, was a welcher of the persistent sort,
it seems. He Collected bets, but informed backers of win-
ners that he was not in a position to pay out, and com-
promised by returning them their own money. The
money paid over by losers he kept. He had done this
several times on the last afternoon of his life, and on the
Grand National Steeple itself had booked 27 bets, of
which 10 were on Decoration, the winner. As Decoration
started at 9 to 1 on the lawn, at even half the price
M’Leod was obviously unable to pay out, even had he
Wished.
* ♦ * *
Notwithstanding the chronic complaint that
every time is a time of “dearth of good steeplechase
horses,” there was a general opinion among experts that
the field for last Saturday’s Grand National at Fleming-
ton included a much larger proportion of high-class stuff
than is ordinarily saddled up for a big jumping event.
And this estimate was borne out by the result. The
5-year-old Decoration, greatly improved of late, won the
race in record time, carrying a heavier burden than any
of the previous seven winners. Syringa and Beilis, who
followed him home, had both of them been there or
thereabouts in other years, and old Springfield as
placed fourth for the second or third time. These, with
The General, Cardinal, and Lamond, represented old
“form,” whilst Officer, Lothian, and Boisdale were ad-
mittedly promising candidates at their respective
weights. Decoration must have been a rattling good
’chaser last Saturday to finish lengths in front of a strong
opposition.
* ■* . * *
The Shamrock recompensed his backers for his
failure of the previous Saturday by getting away with the
Doutta Galla Hurdle Race. But for smiting one of the
obstacles in the Grand National the much fancied
Westralian horse would probably have finished second to
Realm ; yet his winning performance didn’t make him out
to have been quite a good thing for the race wherein he
failed.
* * * *
A father of racing, James Mayo, died in Sydney
last week. Randwick trainers, J. A. and F. Mayo, are
two of eight sons. Mayo pere raced Dagmar, Roulette,
Maid of Australia, Hypatia, Honeydew and Invader in the
old days, and he also trained, among other noted per-
formers, Cardigan, Erin, Stockwell, Locksley, and Crom-
well.
* * * *
The astute Mr. Albert Miller expressed his
opinion of the Grand National candidates by declining to
give old horse Error another chance to get beaten in the
25 furlongs race. The ancient started for the minor
handicap steeples on Wednesday and Saturday, and scored
a handsome win each time, which was better business
than reserving him for the more difficult event.
* * w *
A paying spec. Grand National Hurdles’
winner, Realm, was bought, when a three-year-old, for
£75, and, after gathering minor events as well as the big
cross-country race named, brought 650 gs. at auction last
week.
* * * *
Comes from Bananaland that turf matters there
are improving. Q.A.T.C.’s profit last year was £669,
which tops previous 12 months’ results considerably.
* * * *
After all, some good may come from the resump
tion of the strained relations between the Ascot Club and
the Kensington Racing ring. The correspondence which
both sides are heaving at one another in the press is cal-
culated to draw public attention, to the dimensions of the
curse. Racing in Sydney Metropolitan district has utterly
outgrown the “legitimate requirements” of even such a
horsey population as that of Sydney, and has now got to
the length of creating a class of people who do nothing
else, while they have the money, but follow these
wretched meetings scattered round the suburbs. Con-
sider the list of racing clubs that operate in the Metro-
politan district—A.J.C., Tattersall’s Club, City Tatter-
sail’s Club, Warwick Farm, Canterbury Park,
Rosehill, Moorefield, Kensington, Rosebery Park,
Epping, and Ascot Clubs. Some of these harpies
prey on the public twice a week. The punter who follows
the game goes to Kensington or Ascot on Monday, Rose-
bery Park on Tuesday, Kensington or Ascot on Wednes-
day, Epping on Friday, and Rosehill on Saturday. Then
there are regular meetings at Warwick Farm, Moorefield,
and Canterbury Park, just by way of variety.
• * * '*
Maonland takes top place in the weights for the
Caulfield Cup, with Menschikoff ; and also in the A.J.C.
(Sydney) Epsom and Metropolitan, with Achilles—a big
advt. for the blood stock of Maoriland.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” : The late George Watson, who figured
for so many years as the V.R.C. man with the flag, must
have owed his title—" Prince of Starters to the grovel-
some disposition of the local sporting press. I saw hun-
dreds of fields of horses sent off (and called back, in many
eases) by good old George, but I never saw' any special
evidence of his being peculiarly well fitted for the billet.
There was too much “ language ” in his method. He
weakened his moral control over the riders by
sw'earing at them, and he was not incapable of
favoritism. At one time or another he made some
shockingly bad starts, but it was treasonable to complain
of them. The Prince could do no wrong. He had the
right face and figure for the position. iHe looked the
part. There are various types of horsey men whom one
mentally puts into classes, and Watson filled the eye as a
first-class boy of the old school.
* * • *
“ The Sydney Club,” which is said to be owned
by Melbourne tote-man Wren, was again raided by the
police last week—the second raid within a few weeks.
Just, of course, since that is the law. But why does the
Sydney Club get a monopoly of this attention? There
are half-a-dozen similar institutions in the same street
that should be given a turn.
• • *■ *
The match between Auckland City and Glebe
District teams, at Sydney Cricket Ground, on Saturday,
attracted 30,000 people, who sat shivering in the cold,
hard wind that blew from the south. They were there
to see a football match, instead of which they found
themselves treated to a rough forward scramble in which
a startling series of accidents happened to the Glebe
players, till the game came to an end dramatically.
Riddle, of Glebe, and Little, of Auckland, simul-
taneously kicked at the leather, and their legs
crashed together with a report that was heard in the
members’ Stand very distinctly. With a yell, both men
sank on the ground. The game stopped instanter, and
the injured men had their broken legs put in splints,
after which each team carried its wounded off the field.
At St. Vincent’s Hospital it was found that, in addition
to his broken leg. Riddle also had two fibs broken. Play
was not resumed, and at the time the accident happened
the score was in favor of Auckland City by 11 to 8.
* * * «
When the Auckland City team had finished
butchering the Glebe niert, Sydney Cricket Ground was
handed over to the N.S.W. and Queensland intef-State
teams. The Cornstalks had the benefit Of the wind in the
first half, and turned it to the very best account, and by
judicious kicking kept the leather mostly in the Queens-
land 25. The northern men were not fkst enough, and
their backs had rtot mastered the art of picking up. The
ability to pick up cleanly and kick like lightning has
saved many a match, and ort Saturday Queensland’s
failure in that respect piled up points on the N.S.W. side
of the scoring-board. What with bad picking up and the
strong wind, it was obvioUs that Queensland had no hope
of scoring in the first spell, and it didn’t. When the
whistle blew, the score was N.S.W. 11 to nil. With the
southerly behind them the Queenslanders made some
desperate efforts, and the second half opened with the
appearance of being a more equal game. But there was
nothing in it. N.S. W. cleared the line every time it was
threatened, and carried play back to the Bananapatch,
where they scored again and again. The gante was so
utterly one-sided as to Ire devoid of interest—no one can
get up any enthusiasm over the spectacle of one team
running over another, and the general monotony of it
was only relieved by one brilliant six-man pass, which
took the ball from close to halfway, right over the line at
the eastern corner. Afr.er that Queensland just went to
pieces, and N.S.W. added another 11 points to its already
formidable score. Queensland’s only score was a goal
obtained from a penalty pick, and the game ended 25 to
three.
* * * *
The selection of A. J. Mackenzie, of the Uni-
versity, for the position of N.S.W. full-back in the match
against Queensland occasioned considerable surprise.
Mac is a good man, and as it happened, played his game
on Saturday without a mistake. 0. Hedley,' of the Glebe,
had been originally selected, but he begged to be allowed
to play for his own club against Auckland City, and the
request was granted. Well, there is absolutely nothing
to chose between Hedley, of the Glebe, and D’Alpuget, of
the Eastern Suburbs, and both of them are better men
than Mackenzie in the general estimation, and why
D’Alpuget should be passed over is a mystery.
* * * *
Under Association rules, the game of games in
and around Sydney on Saturday last was that between
Sydney and Rozelle. The teams were about as evenly
matched as possible. Rozelle was the faster and more
aggressive, but the Sydney team kicked with greater
judgment and force ; so the result of an irresistible attack
meeting an invincible defence was a draw without a score
on either side. At Epping racecourse Balmain scored
three goals to Glebe’s one, and at the Agricultural Ground
Pyrmont downed South Sydney by five goals to two. The
result of the round was to leave Pyrmont in the van of
the competition with 21 points, second place being filled
by Balmain and Rozelle with 16 each. Glebe has 14, and
after that there are only single figures. At this stage of
the competition single figures do not count.
* ■* » *
The crack game on Saturday in the Sydney
League matches (Australian football) was that between
Sydney and Redfern. It would have been a much better
game but for the fact that the public got so interested in
the struggle that it occasionally slopped over the line
among the players. Sydney, winning the toss, took ad-
vantage of the savage wind that tugged at the scalps of
the onlookers. The result was that the first quarter
ended with Sydney leading by 17 points to 1. Then Red-
fern got the wind, and settled down to equalise things.
But Sydney played desperately, and managed to score
8 points, but that wind told and Redfern lifted its score
to 19 points. By the time Sydney regained the wind it
was dying down, but they made the most of it, and ran
ahead to 46 points while Redfern added only 1 behind.
The final quarter was played in a comparative calm.
Redfern struggled gamely, but the Sydney kickers had
found the range, and went on ruthlessly bill at the bell
for close of play they had won by 58 points to 20. Redfern
had failed to add a single point during the last quarter.
Y.M.O, A. came along to see Newtown with a team largely
composed of substitutes, and, naturally, went under by
68 to 14 points. Nevertheless, the policy of giving the
colts an opportunity is a good one. Also, it is one rarely
abused in Sydney sports. East Sydney, with three
juniors in the fighting line, attacked and walloped North
Sydney by 45 to 37. Out at Moore Park, Paddington
simply crumpled up before Balmain, the waterside suburb
men winning by 88 to 27. In the competition Newtown
is leading with 18 points, Sydney follows with 16, Redfern
plods third with 14, Balmain fourth with 12, and East
Sydney next with 10. Below that is just mud.
Ideal weather and the prospect of an exciting
match drew some 25,000 spectators to Victoria Park on
Saturday, where, in Vic. League football, Colli ngwood
met Fitzroy. The display of football was first-class
during the first two quarters, which saw’Wood score 22
points to ’Roy’s 27 ; but in the third quarter last year’s
premiers rushed four goals, in almost as many minutes,
and from then to the end the case was hopeless for
’Wood, the board when the bell rang showing ’Roy 13
goals 10 behinds to ’Wood’s 6—B. There was excitement
in spots, certainly; as when two players exchanged
several willing blows close to the fence, the ball being far
away at the time, and when another sustained a drive in
the mouth that cost him a tooth ; but even a bigoted
barracker could hardly call that football. Similar
compliments were also passed between St. Kilda and
“Sowth,” but the umpire there was stricter and pro-
mised to stop the game if there we>'e any further hostili-
ties. “ Saints ” ultimately won by 35 to 28 points, but
the interest in these two clubs, with Geelong and Mel-
bourne, diminishes, it being pretty evident that the
finals will lie between Essendon, ’Roy, Carlton and
’Wood, with the odds on the first-named. In the Asso-
ciation the undefeated West Melbourne put up a good,
strenuous game against North at the “Glue-pot,”
scoring 37 points to 26; while the improving Richmond
team beat Footscray by 82 to 35. The clubs stand in
that order, with Williamstown clinging to the tail-board
of the van, in a manner of speaking. But the absence of
a single defeat this season begins to fill the “ West ” men
with that cockiness that goes before an upheaval, where-
fore they are advised to go slow and keep an eye on the
ground before them. Also they are recommended to pay
no heed to the blandishments of the local Lizzie ; she
is a bright little animal, but she won’t speak to them
when they get wallopped.
* * 9 -k
That the Australian game is fairly dangerous
may be gauged from ohe fact that, in Melbourne last week,
out of the eight League clubs, Carlton had four men in-
capacitated, Saints three, South two, ’Wood and Essendon
one each ; and those 11 are a fair average of Invalids out
of the 144 players. Of the ten Association clubs, Port had
five on the injured list, Williamstown four, West three,
Footscray two. Prahran one, and the unlucky Essendon
Town no less than eight. When, as happens a hundred
times in an afternoon, five or six strong:, lusty, young
men simultaneously jump four feet in the air from all di-
rections, their hands being engaged seeking the ball,
something is bound to happen frequently, and it
sometimes means broken arms, or legs, or ribs, or collar-
bones ; but mostly it is only severe bruises —a fatal acci-
dent is rare.
“Micawber”: How is this for stamina?
Speaking to one of the Auckland team, after the match
5/7/’O6, he commented upon the severe trip across and
the manner in which the various members were affected.
One player was particularly ill, and, for three days after
leaving Auckland, never left his bunk. On Friday, he
reclined, semi-unconscious, on the upper deck, and, pre-
vious to the boat entering the Heads, had almost
perished from exposure, as his presence on the deck had
been forgotten, and he was too weak to reach the cabin.
Yet this player put up a rattling good game against New-
town, and was one of the try-getters !
* * * *
George \V, Smith, the Auckland three-quarter
footballer, is perhaps the speediest player in all Maori-
land. In times gone by Smith was Australasian hurdle
champion, and holder of Australasian 120vds. and 440yds.
records. Then he retired from athletics altogether, but
subsequently drifted again into active football. Smith is
continually “ retiring ” —but somehow he cannot keep
out of the limelight.
* * «
Stanley Wickham is the “ veteran” of N.S.W.
Rugby football. He first “ represented ” against Banana-
land in 1895, and has been in the State team with scarcely
a break ever since, besides which he played against M.L.
in ’97, ’9B, 1901 and 1903, and against England in 1904.
Another old ’un in N.S.W. Rugby is Harold Judd—a
mighty forward who appeared for the State against
Rananalartd in 1900, and has kept his place ever since,and
also played against M.L. in 1903 and 1905, and England in
1904. Wickham and Judd have alternately filled the
captainship of the N.S.W. team for many years ; and on
recent form both are st'll as reliable as the younger
players.
* * » *
Melbourne Cricket Club lately, like Agag,
walks delicately. It has been practically kicked out of
the ground that it controlled for so many years, and
there are some enormous sums of money involved. Just
at present it seems open to anybody to start a suit in
Equity to make the Melbourne Club render a statement
of accounts for the revenues of the ground, and if anyone
should start that action there would be a lot of inter-
esting disclosures, not the least of which would be the
amounts paid to some of the gentlemen captains who
brought teams from England, and posed as lily-white
amateurs all the time, and are still posing as such. The
influence of the M.C.C. depends absolutely on having
control of the ground. So the club affects to regard the
trustees appointed by Tom Bent as persons illegally on
the premises, and it is understood will take legal action
to enforce its control of the ground. Even if the club
loses, it argues, it will take the trustees two years to eject
it, and in the meantime the club will have control. But
what is the use of fighting the master of many legions,
unless one has as many legions, which the club hasn’t?
Bent has Parliament behind him, and with one small Act
can strike the bumptious club utterly dead. And Bent is
just the man to do it if needs must.
* * * *
When Paddington (Sydney) Club came to deal
with the N.S.W. O.A.’s instructions to suspend Noble
and Trumper for the part they had taken in the trouble
with the Melbourne Cricket Club, the members found
themselves in a tight place. They had a feeling of loyalty
for the Association, and yet were dragged in the other
direction by their personal friendship for Noble and
Trumper, so they tried to get out of the difficulty by
a quibble. They endorsed the action of the Association
in suspending Noble and Trumper, but regretted that the
Club had no rule Under which it could suspend the two
players. The Association saw through the well-meant
deception, and suspended Paddington Club itself. Noble
and Trumper have since tried to undo the trouble by
resigning, but the Association is obdurate, and insists on
its orders being obeyed. In the meantime it has started
to arrange the programme for next season, leaving Pad-
dington out altogether. Once the programme is arranged
it is like the Law of the Medes and Persians—unchange-
able. So Paddington Club is likely to disappear igno-
miniously after a long and honorable career. Seems like
a case for a general meeting and the election of a new
committee.
* * * *
South Australia will now, unconditionally,
apply fora position on the Board of Control. Move is easy
of comprehension to those in the know. One particular
party who looks forward to being in an English tour or
two was wildly anxious about his profits, and, having dis-
covered that there was no dancer to his personal prospects
as far as the present Board of Control is concerned, sud-
denly realised that he was jeopardising those prospects
by opposing the Board. Of course, South Australia,
which is controlled by its players, will now agitate for an
immediate invitation to the Mar.vlebone Club to arrange
for a team to come to Australia next season. But there
are reasons why it should be disappointed- Victoria lias to
reorganise its cricket, for a totally new position has been
created there. The League players who are now joining
the Association under a system of district cricket must
be given a chance to play against the next English team
that comes to Australia, and also for membership
in the next team that visits England from
Australia. Queensland is in a similar position. It
has to work out its cricket on a new basis. Not only is it
undesirable for an English team to come to Australia
next season, but it is exceedingly doubtful if the game will
be sufficiently reorganised by the following season to
send to England a team really representative of all
Australia. The new Board of Control will be elected
somewhere about the middle of August and one of the
first things it should do is to emphatically announce that
there will be no English team invited to Australia till the
game is thoroughly established on the new basis.
Victor Trumper, having some idea of standing
as a delegate for his club to the Association, wrote asking
if he was regarded as a professional or as an amateur.
Considering that he himself wrote to the Association
stating that he would in future play under rule 19, which
provides for payment of professional players, the request
for information seemed hardly necessary. But the Asso-
ciation informed Mr. Trumper that, as he was and is a sus-
pended player, the Association had no jurisdiction over
him. In effect, he inquired : “ What class am I?” and
the Association replied, in effect: “You’re not in either
class—you’re just not.”
* * * •
George Towns is now training on the Parra-
matta River, but up till the time of writing had managed
to keep his progress fairly secret, and no one seems to
know exactly how the ex-champion is shaping. Stanbury
is reported as being very well, and in excellent fettle. His
superior strength and weight are a big handicap in his
favor. At time of writing £2OO of the £5OO side wager
was still unpaid, but is not due till July 25th. One
thing is certain, that it is a very different George Towns
to the one he beat before that Stanbury will find
pitted against him on Saturday week. On the other
hand, Stanbury seems to be a much better man than when
he defeated Towns. The struggle will be an intensely in-
teresting one, between the most graceful, artistic
oarsman in the. world, and the strongest sculler on the
planet. The race will take place over the old regulation
course, from Ryde bridge to Searle’s monument. The
winner of the impending struggle will most likely be
called upon to defend the title by Edward Durban,
Hanlan’s nephew, who is reported to have struck some
money, and to be coming to Australia to try for the
world’s championship.
What a day Saturday, July 28th, will be in
N.S.W. ! At Cootamundra, Holman and Norton will
clinch ; Towns and Stanbury decide the sculling cham-
pionship of the world on Parramatta River ; and the great
\V. N. Willis will arrive from S’Africa.
* * * #
Dick Arnst, the man who won the last Sydney
Thousand, arrived at Sydney last week, and immediately
made a bee line for George Towns’ quarters at Mortlake.
It is understood that a syndicate has sent the mighty
wheeler over for six months’ training, and if at the end of
that time he shows signs of championship prowess as an
oarsman, he will get a further course of training, after
which the syndicate will proceed to wipe the floor of the
world with him, and make much loot out of his victories.
Hick is the sort of man who would probably succeed at
anything—barring, perhaps, writing poetry. He doesn’t
show any signs of the poetical temperament. Up to
the moment he arrived at Mortlake, he told Towns, he
had never been in an outrigger.
• * * *
The match between Sawkins and E. J. Camp-
bell for the billiard championship of Victoria provided an
interesting contest, for the most part. The game was
5000 up, in six sessions. At the outset, both men played
poorly, the bonzoline balls coming strange to them after
their recent experience with the lighter and brighter
ehrystalate balls in Alcock’s tournament. Sawkins was
the more bothered of the two, and Campbell had a lead
of 191 when the first session closed. At the end of the
third session Sawkins was about 100 to the good, and
next night his “ form ” was very decidedly better than
Campbell’s best. Although he never quite succeeded in
making a break of three figures, he had an average of
20‘19 per innings, which wants a lot of beating on a
championship table. This put him 440 ahead, but in the
next session he had all the luck against him, and Camp-
bell reduced the lead to 84. On the last day a fresh set
of balls had to be substituted for the old ones, and both
men played unevenly until the game stood at 4514 to 4502.
Then Sawkins went on and won by 300 odd, scoring his
last 220 points whilst his broken-up opponent made only
35. In style, consistency and nerve the winner seemed
to have the advantage—not a great advantage, but enough
to swear by.
* * * *
There’s a lot of nonsense in the Melbourne
Beer trade’s offer to put up ten beer men against ten
total abstainers for a tug of war, as though the average
physical strength of the non-Reehabites and Rechabites
Could be fairly compared in such a contest. In the first
place the drinkers have the bigger population to draw
upon, and in the second place, a tug of war is not a
proper test of muscle and endurance. It is mainly a test
of weight. A huge, flabby man hanging to the far end
of a rope goes for more than a lean, healthy man of the
same height and bone structure. Fat is strength in a
tug, and “ knack ” is better than power of endurance.
All the same, it seems probable that the Vic. Cold Tea
party could put a champion ten into the field. Some of
the local professional muscle-makers, notably Clarence
Weber, are total abstainers and non-smokers. As No. 1
in a tugging team, the fifteen-stone Weber would be an
important consideration.
•* * * »
Sydney Summer Nights Amusements, Limited,
has announced that the usual November Cycling carnival
is off. In compensation, the money that is usually raced
for during November will be added to the prize list for
January, making the total amount then £O5O.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association, which is try-
ing to displace the League of Wheelmen, makes a modest
beginning in the road-racing line. The first event under
the new body is from Camden to Sydney on August 11th
for a prize list worth £6O. Of this, £25 is represented by
one of Henderson’s bikes, and a large portion of the
balance is made up of trophies, so the cash cyclist who
races under the Association doesn’t stand to collect much
filthy lucre.
* * * *
The contest for the Dunlop inter-club cycling
premiership reached the semi-final stage on Saturday,
when Enfield and Eastern Suburbs clubs qualified for a
start in the final. Enfield won the fixture last year, and
is generally looked upon as favorite for the final, which
has been postponed, on account of the sculling champion-
ship, from July 28th to an unfixed date about three weeks
off.
* * * •
The Pioneer Motor Cycle Club has cut adrift
from the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen, and at present
there is a movement on foot to unite in one general
motor league, the Automobile Club, the Pioneer Motor
Cycle Club, and the Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. A large
number of car owners are also boat proprietors, and the
same thing applies to the motor cycle section, although
to a less extent. A combination of the three clubs
would result in a very strong body which should be able
to organise some most interesting contests. But the
trouble is that neither car-owners nor boat-owners are of
a sportive nature. They keep their cars and boats for
pleasure, and would rather drift round pleasant places in
the afternoon sunshine, sipping tea and flirting with
pretty women, than hurtle through the air or water in a
frenzied rush to do the distance in a fraction less than
another man did it the week before. And theirs is the
better part.
* * * *
Veteran Rooty Hill (N.S.W.) coursing man,
Sam Bladon, won another Waterloo Cup at Moonee
Valley (Vic.), last week, with his crack youngster Bul-
wark, which only recently appropriated N.S.W. N.C.A.
Grand Challenge Stakes. Latest Australian Waterloo
Cup was tiie richest for some years. First money totalled
£225. Generally conceded that old man Bladon knows
more about the points of the greyhound and how to keep
and prepare him than all other Australian coursing men
together. Backing the right one of Bladon’s nominations,
in any coursing event worth troubling about, rarely pans
out badly.


“SMOKED 40 YEARS
AND NEVER
MET
)//K
II
d
mm
CSQAR TO
EQUAL THEM.
Mr.
HEHDERSON, J.P., writes
1“ Effingham, Crawley Down, Sussex.
“ Dear Sir,—Thank you for so kindly sending my Marsuma Cigars. Having
smoked for something like 40 years, I can safely say I have never met with one to
equal them.—Yours truly, “ J. HENDERSON.”
The Marsuma has already the largest sale of any cigar in England. Its intrinsic merit has recommended
it everywhere. A cigar that has received praise from Lord Kitchener, Sir Henry Irving, Right Honorable
the Earl of Dunraven, Sir Edmund Barton, and the hundreds of other well-known" men, must be something
out of the ordinary.
OLIE -A-O-lETSTTS
FELDHSIM, C9TTHELF & CO., Bydney, N.S.W.
FOTKERSILL & CO., Fremantle, W.A.
M 3. DA:i REO2AN, Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victo -ia.
Messrs. AULD & 80N8, Adelaide, S.A.
Messrs. WHITE & 00., Hobart, Tasmania.
Mr. p. a. 0. BYHN2, Launseston, Tasmania.
Mr. DUN3AN McLEAN, Creymcuth, N.Z.
Legal Notices.
yy ILLIAM SAWERS.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a Petition under
the Presumption of Life Limitation (Scotland) Act 1891
has been presented to the First Division of the Court of
Session in Scotland Lord Mackenzie Ordinary by William
Clark Sawers Spool Polisher 98 George-street Paisley
and John Muir Coal Miner Border Shaft Alleghany
County Maryland United States of America praying the
Court to find that WILLIAM SAWERS sometime Box-
maker 316 Main-street Bridgeton Glasgow has disappeared
and that he was last known to be alive on or about 21st
November 1894 and that he must be presumed to have
died on 21st November 1901 being seven years from the
date On which he was last known to be alive.
The Petitioners’information as set out in the Petition
is as follows : “ The said William Sawers left this country
(Scotland) for Melbourne Australia in 1890. He arrived
in Melbourne on 13th August 1890. He was then 19 years
of age having been born on 30th June 1871. He was un-
married and a domiciled Scotsman. While in Melbourne
he worked as a laborer. After staying in Melbourne for
some time he went to Evandale Australia. At Evandale
he lodged with David Graham Master Bricklayer there.
Mr. Graham was his uncle by marriage being married to
atsister of his mother. He stayed at Evandale until 1894.
He then left and went to the old gold diggings in Aus-
tralia.”
On which Petition the Lord Ordinary has pronounced
the following Interlocutor. “ Edinburgh 24th May 1906
Lord Mackenzie. Act J. P. Smith. Alt- .” The
Lord Ordinary appoints the Petition to be intimated in
the Minute Book and on the walls in common form ;
further appoints intimation of the Petition to be made
twice in each of the following newspapers viz. : the
Weekly Scotsman the Melbourne Argus the Sydney
Bulletin and the West Australian in order that all
parties having interest may lodge answers to the Petition
by the 15th day of October 1906.
C. KINCAID MACKENZIE.
Any information as to Mr. Sawers’ residence if alive or
his death if dead should be forwarded to the subscribers
BRUCE KEIR & BURNS
W. S.
16 Hill-street Edinburgh
Scotland.
J. & J. HENDRIES
Solicitors
Union Bank Galston Scotland
June 1906. Petitioners’Agents.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES.—Probate Jurisdiction.—ln the Estate of
JOHN WOOD, late of Forbes, in the State of New
South Wales, Freeholder, formerly Baker, deceased.—To
ELIZABETH MARTHA WOOD, formerly the Wife of the
abovenamed John Wood, deceased. —Pursuant to an
Order of the Honorable W. GREGORY WALKER, Pro-
bate Judge, made herein on the 28th day of June, 1906,
the Widow (if any) of the abovenamed John Wood, who
died on the 15th day of March, 1904, is, on or before the
31st day of August, 1906, to come in and state her claim
to participate in the distribution of the Estate of the said
John Wood to the Curator of Intestate Estates ; other-
wise the said Curator will proceed to distribute the
Estate of the said John Wood as if he died without
leaving a Widow. The address of the said Curator is
Queen’s-square, Sydney. Dated this 29th day of June,
1906. T. W. GARRETT, Registrar of Probates.
SHE
I
are many, and its principle is the
most successful ever invented
for the benefit of smokers.
Nicotine is absolutely pre-
vented fr>m entering
ei her m »uth or pipe
bowl. E ery pips is
guaranteed.
erits
of the
ĥ
A
“AHSfA"
smokes cool
and dry and to
the end of the
tobacco. The
bowls are made
from flawless briar-
wood, well - seasoned.
To be had in three
qualities from all tbbac-
cbnists throughout the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. Whole-
sale only from FELDUEIM.
GOTTHELL h CO., Sydney. \
E. T. WALSH, Merchant Tailor
ħ
New Four-Guinea Suitings.
Stylish Patterns. Expert Cutting. No Factory Work.
SAMPLES AND MEASURE FORMS SENT TO ANY ADDRESS.
The Largest High-Class Tailoring Establishment in the Commonwealth.
INSPECTION INVITED.
359 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
%
sr
I
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from-
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
Irvine shows in his Victorian campaign
some elementary ideas of decency. A recent
statement by him; —
It was said that the Labor party wished to endanger
the sanctity of the home and the marriage tie. It was
a great pity that this should he said. He did not believe
the Labor party intended that at all. He believed in a
fair fight always, and it was a great pity they should be
accused of this.
Amusements.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
Manager .. .. Mr. R. H. COLLINS.
EVERY EVENING at 8,
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
AND THEIR WONDERFUL MOVING PICTURES.
NEW PROGRAMME. NEW PROGRAMME.
TWO GRAND ATTRACTIONS IN ONE.
FISK JUBILEE SINGERS
will continue their Season, Opening in the LYCEUM HALL
on SATURDAY, JULY 21.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales White
Rose, and all Railway Bookstalls.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. O. wiLLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of MR. WILLIAM COLLIER in the Famous
Farcical Comedy,
ON THE QUIET.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 21 (for Twelve Nights Only),
THE DICTATOR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY.
PT~ PRICES—6d. and Is.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK.
(Old Exhibition Grounds).
EVERY EVENING at 8,
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY at 3.
BOSTOCK AND WOMBWELL’S
NOVELTY CIRCUS AND COMPLETE MENAGERIE.
THE FIRST OF ITS KIND IN AUSTRALASIA
CHILDREN’S ESSAY COMPETITION.
Prizes will be given for the best essay entitled, “My
Visit to Bostock and Wombwell’s Menagerie.” For Par-
ticulars see handbills and daily papers.
THURSDAY, JULY 19-THE LIVING BURIAL.
SIX FEET UNDER GROUND FOR 120 HOURS.
PRICES—3s., 25., and Is. Boxes to seat Four, 20s.
Sole Proprietor—E. H. BOSTOCK.
Advance Agent—ALEC VERNE.
Under the Direction of DOUGLAS BOSTOCK.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee J. O. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S
Interesting and Entertaining Naval Melodrama,
WITH FLYING COLORS.
Written by Messrs. Seymour Hicks and Fred. G. Latham.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s and is.
Tivoli theatre, sydiey
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Enormous Success of VASCO, the Mad Musician.
ALEXANDRA and BERTIE.
Great Success of BRINN, Sensational Juggler and Cannon
Manipulator, in “ PASTIMES ON A BATTLESHIP.”
Enormous Success of LITTLE CLIFF.
Great Success of MISS LILIETH LEYTON, sup-
ported by Mr. GEORGE BENTLEY, in their New
Comedv. “ PHOTOGRAPHED OR MARRIED.”
MAUD FANING, THE TWO COLLIERS, &e.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BLAKE and GRANBY, Eccentric Corned}' Artists.
>’iV THE IBSJNS, Musical Entertainers.
PHILLIPS BROS., Vocal Duo.
SEYMOUR & DUPRE, Eccentric Comedy Artists.
HOMER B. MASON and MARGUERITE KEELER,
Comedy Artists, in the Comedy, “A HERO.”
' NELLIE KILBURN, Soubrette Artiste.
CARLETON and SUTTON, Knockabout Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is 1
Amusements.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, and FRIDAY, JULY 20, Last
Two Performances of THE ASSASSIN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 21,
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON'S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION in the New and Mvstic Drama,
DANGEROUS WOMEN.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY,
including
MR. ROBERT WALDRON and MISS JANE HUMPHREY,
—in—
THE SQUAW MAN.
A Melo-Oomedy Drama in Four Acts.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, JULY 19, and FRIDAY, JULY 20, Last
Two Performances of THE MAN FROM MEXICO.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 21 (for 6 More Nights Only),
THE WiLLOUCHBY WARD COMEDY CO., including
MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in London’s Great Laughing Limit,
THE TALK OF THE TOWN.
PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and
The Grand.
Music, Songs,
Phonographs,
Violins, Etc,
o
Weekly
EDISON Pay-
Packing: Free to any address.
Terms extended to Householders only. Send for
CASH CATALOGUES.
EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS
(Cash only), price 1/9 each. Trade Supplied.
ALBERT & SON,
Largest, Best and Cheapest Music Stores in Australia.
137 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the famous
BOOMERANG MOUTH ORGANS.
cu
EL.
\rri
lo
LOO
O'
0
WHY LOOK OLD?
USE THE PATENT
IDEAL HAIR-DYEING COMB
RESTORES FADED HAIR.
Instantly Colors Grey Hair
DARKENS ATTRtTRN HAIR.
Imparts any Shade of Bi own or a Brilliant Black
■'T'fcLK Patent deal Hair-Dyeing Comb is made to curry a sup-
■*- py of th* Coloring Fluid, with which it ran be con-
stantly re-«*hrtrtrod, and thus by merely passing the Comb
through the hair a few times every g ey hair disappears
Hr til the whole of the tresses ar<* ev-nly colored to any
desired shade The scalp an the hands cannot be dis-
•colored when the Hair Dyeing Comb is used. The bottle of
Dye ng Fluid that accompani-s the Comb is guaranteed
:abs lutely harmless and perfectly free from angeroua
mineral ingredi ms. It differs entirely from ordinary dy s for
if srreatlv i proves the t«* tore of the hair, making it beauti-
fully smooth and glossy. The hair may be thoroughly
washed it any tim w thout affecting the imparted color.
F d-d hair Willie restored »o its original color by simply
•Combi* g it in the ordinary «-ay, and auburn hair can be
darkened ro any shade f brown To avoia attract* 2g notice,
the olot may b v ry gradually chanced without the slight
est risk of detection. Full printed directions for use and
« Bottle of the Coloring Fluid accompany the Como, packed
in a neat box The price of the complete outfit is only 7s 6d.,
including carr age to any address, and securely packed free
from observation. Additional bottles of the Dyeing Fluid
may be had at any time for 2s. 6d. carriage paid. Postal Notes
•of any State accepted. Obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co M
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
There seems to be a general impression that the
amalgamation of the Automobile Club of Australia and
the Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. will be carried by an
overwhelming majority of the members of each concern.
Which reminds that the Ocean Reliability race to
Newcastle is still a hazy fixture. In fact, it, is doubtful if
that race will come off till next summer. This portion of
the year, which is, as a rule, associated with calm seas,
has this season been unusually stormy, and there hasn't
been a day for ever so long when the committee would
have been justified in starting such a race.
* * * •
Another nasty display of black man’s wrestling
happened last week at the Cyclorama building (Melb.),
when Scotchman Peter M’Gregor, of Sydney, met Buttan
Singh in the catch-hold style, best two of three pin falls.
Peter’s first mistake was in trying for a standing arm-
hold, which failed, and left him on the mat with Singh
master of the situation. Then the dusky one practised a
series of holds that only eastern subtlety could devise.
He first applied a half-nelson and arm hold, Peter
spinning cleverly out, only to get into further difficulties
with a hannnerlock, from which he again managed to
free himself. Buttan, however, kept him moving, even-
tually securing an arm up the back, at the same tune
forcing the lower part of the leg up against the thigh,
what time the victim denounced him as a “ black
blanky cow.” After much wriggling, poor Mac
got out and assumed the squatting position. Buttan,
moving like a copper round a barrel, pulled his nan
down to the restful attitude and subjected him to a
second dose but with both legs forced up, at the same
time making an attempt to grasp the nose and eye.
Being cautioned by the referee lie secured an arm up the
back, gradually levering his man with the combined holds,
and getting both shoulders on the mat in 19 minutes 51
seconds. “Peter” limped to his corner from the
effect of the leg holds—which caused a stoppage
of the circulation —and though he got every
attention from his seconds he fell an easy
victim to the Hindu in the second bout. Unable to
withstand some more foot screwing and leg straining he
lay in a huddled mass on the mat, and was assisted away.
Buttan was top dog from the jump and could have done
the trick without applying holds that even a black man
ought to be ashamed of.
* * * *
“The Stork”: It is evident that Clarence
Weber, notwithstanding his chronic indisposition to get
angry, is the only athlete in these parts capable of
lowering Buttan Singh’s colors. Buttan defeated the
ponderous Pag'd by securing a leg hold, which caused
the huge German to cry enough. Fred Porter was
simply 7 played with and his nose rubbed on the mat, and
latest victim (M‘Gregor) was dealt with in similar fashion
to Pagel. Singh could never do anything with Weber’s
legs, for they are equally as strong as Hackenschmidt’s.
Buttan and Weber have had three wrestles. At their first
meeting Singh was, n the road to lose a tenner, but
managed to avoid the loss by strangling the “white”
after 13£ minutes’ work, just saving his bacon by l£min.
During the contest Singh could do nothing with Weber,
and as for obtaining a leg hold, he had no chance. The
w'hite bo.v merely Shook his leg free every time. In their
second meeting Weber threw the Hindu in 30sec., and
most folks are satisfied he w 7 as robbed of the second fall
after 9min. work by the had judgment of the referee,
who decided against him. The third contest took place
at Fitzgerald’s Circus building (Melb.), and resulted in a
draw after *2£ hours’ uneventful work, the Hindu being
afraid to attack and Weber not having the dash necessary 7
to achieve a victory. Weber has challenged his old oppo-
nent several times lately, but Buttan refuses to toe the
mark. Weber has therefore decided to give him another
chance to accept before claiming the championship.
* * * *
Possible that an Australasian amateur boxing
team will tour England and Europe under the wing of the
N.S.W. Sports Club. Everything depends on the State
and Maoriland Amateur Associations, which are being
sounded on the matter. The proposal lias its origin in
the full exchequer of the N.S.W. Sports Club.
* * i *
The endless duel between Sydney fighters
Montague Andrews and Robert Tin ner resumed at S.yd-
ney National Sporting Club last week. It went the full
20 rounds, and for gore was not in the same street as
Glebe’s match against Auckland City 7 Club. It was a
somewhat rousing spectacle on account of the cheerful
way Turner cut loose from all considerations of personal
safety 7 and rushed in with a whoop to shower blows over
Montague’s iron-clad mug. It looked as though both
men were getting a most fearful basting, but the fact
that they were both on their feet at the end of 20 rounds,
and neither of them at all seriously damaged, suggests
that there was a lack of weight about those whirling
blows, and that the fight was a feather-pillow scrap after
all. The verdict went to Andrews on points.
* * * #
“Snell”: The termination of the big Mel-
bourne battle, Arthur Cripps o. Ed. Williams, was a
pathetic demonstration of the extent to which the poor
pug is at the mercy of the referee. In my experience, I
have found referees quite as liable to lose their heads as
the combatants are, and in this instance I am convinced
that it was the referee who lost his nut, and not the
scrapper. The fight was one of the cleanest and cleverest
ever seen in Melbourne, and although it was all go from
gong to finish it never degenerated into a butchery. It
was marked by 7 clean, clever hitting and scientific
evasion throughout, and proved .young Williams to be
just within reach of the middleweight championship of
Australia. It was a vastly superior fighter who faced
Cripps to the wingy youth who had given Blackmore and
Johns a hustle for the money in Sydney rings, as Arthur
found out when straight lefts and sudden tricky rights,
coming from all parts, began to play on his dial. The
local boy was a lap ahead on points, although Cripps was
playing like a workman on his barrel almost throughout
the struggle. When in the 15th Arthur rushed Ed. in the
latter’s corner, Williams side-stepped, and got an arm
across with a bit of swing in it, Cripps’ feet skidded on
the wet hoards, and he fell on the ropes, rebounded, and
was spread on the floor, where he remained, like the
cunning tactician he is, pending a word from the referee.
Stokesberry said it was poultry, and Arthur’s luck was in.
He took the bigger thrashing, but he took the bigger
wedge of the gate too. The betting was 2tol on Arthur,
but if they meet again prices will run the other way, I
think.
The O’Neill’s scrap with Doc Morris, at Sydney
Gaiety, on Saturday night, moved a fairly large crowd in
a variety of manners. At the lead-off the O’Neill caught
Doc a few heavy ones between wind and water that were
calculated to bring on an attack of indigestion. The Doc,
however, although obviously uncomfortable, managed to
land a few at random that had a steadying effect, and at
last pulled himself together and waded in to knock off
O’Neill’s accumulation of points. But time was too
short, and his triumphal slog' was cut short by the arrival
of the 20th round, and a cold decision that there was still
a credit balance to O’Neill’s account.
* * * *
Road race men will be interested to learn that
the Dunlop Rubber Co. is making a special feature of
its road-racing detachable cover for the present road-
racing season. The cover is constructed of the finest
fabric, the walls of which are protected from cuts and
abrasions by a thin skin of pure rubber. On the heavy
tread is a light, compressed, non-slipping rubber band.
The tyre is absolutely one of the finest speed productions
the Dunlop Co. has yet put on the market, and is sure
to meet with the approval of the road cracks, on account
of its speed, lightness and strength. The covers weigh
3loz. per pair. It was on similar specially made covers
that the Arnst brothers put up such wonderful rides
in the Warrnambool-Melbourne road races.*


WEDDING
mt
W
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, cut crystal glass, 255.
Other styles, Ss 6d, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Automatic CALL BELL, pure silver-
plated, richly embossed, 12s 6d. Other
styles, 4s Cd. 255.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE WILL
PROVE AN INVALUABLE HELP, AND AID
YOU IN MAKING A SELECTION.
*IM
A. SAUNDERS.
STirn’Sff TOBACCO JAR and PIPE
- and, Oak Base, 20s. Other styles, 27s 6d, 355.
YOU MUST
BE
SATISFIED
The very widest
range of choice, and
the very highest
quality at prices
LESS THAN ELSE-
WHERE.
Our Guarantee is
YOU MUST BE
SATISFIED.
All Goods sent
POST FREE to
any address in
Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Walnut CABINET CLOCK, 8-
day, strikes hours and halves, 17in
high, iVs (ia. Other styles, IDs (kl,
12s Cd, 15s 9d.
wtr
WE PREPAY ALL EXPRESS CHARGES TO
ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA, WHICH
MEANS A BIG SAVING TO YOU.
Jsttg.
fiKEERRO
Vav
Bwr
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, pure silver-
plated, cut crystal bottles, 12s
Cd; other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, las
Cd, 17s 6d.
English
A. SAUNDERS.
CRYSTALITE SPECS, 3s Gd; Pure Pebbles, 4s Gd, 7s 6d 10s
Gold-filled Frames, 12s Gd, 17s 6d, 21s; Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 40s.
SEND
FOR IT
NOW.
Our Illustrated
Catalogue enables
you to shop
leisurely and con-
veniently in the
privacy of your
own home.
Write to-day.
You will receive
it by return mail.
You assume no risk
when dealing
with us.
Wfi ask you at your leisure to pay a visit to our Optical Rooms, and have
your sight carefully tested by a skilled Rcfractionist. Examination and
Free. If unable to call, send for Home Eye-test Chart, sent post free
PRESENTS
fr”
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver SEWING COM-
PANION, comprising 4 articles, in
silk-lined case, £2. Other styles, 35s
6d, 18s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING MUG, pure silver-
plated, 20s. Other styles, 13s
6d, 15s Gd, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel SHAVING COMPANION, com
prising Mirror, Soap, and Hot-water Bowl
Brush, and Paper-clip, on wooden base, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET BOOK, Morocco Leather,
pure silver mounts and lock, 12s
6d. Other styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d,
Ss fid. 1 f>s 6d, 15s.
:C-: z?
<• SVONEV
jp l ' l ' l "" r 'lfiiiiliiliiiii
llllimniH
sawn
ini
pM
aT,
M
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLARS, cut glass, solid
silver mounts, and spoons, in silk-
lined case, 12s fid. Heart-shaped, 13s
Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, pure silver-
plated, opal Venetian glass, 30s.
Other styles, ]ss Gd, 20s, 255, £2!
ere
2-
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure silver-
plated, satin finish, richly pierced, 4s 6d.
Other styles, 5s Od, 7s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure silver-plated on nickel
silver, richly embossed, serrated edge, £2 10s.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid silver HAIR
BRUSH, finest white
bristles, 15s 6d.
Others, 12s 6d, 17s
6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
PHOTO FRAME, solid silver, cabinet
size, richly embossed, 10s 6d Other
styles, 5s Gd, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
DINNER CRUET, 4 cut crystal
bottl os, pure silver-plated, 255.
Other styles, 15s fid, 17s 6d
21s. 30s.
gjpsiii
JtJajy/nd&vd
•M.
rtf
WT.;._ r ~^7£*
A. SAUNDERS.
Jam Spoon, Butter Knife, and Sugar Sifter,
solid silver, mother-of-pearl handles, gilt bowls,
in silk-lined case, SOs. Other styles, 255, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SUGAR BASIN,
China lining, pure silver-plated
mounts, 15s 6d. Extra mounted,
17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome Gilt Bedroom CLOCK, tinted
enamel dial, Onyx base, accurate
timekeeper, 12in high, £2 ss. Other styles,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or MARINE GLASSES,
sharp definition, with leather
sling- and rase, £2. Other
styles, 20 s
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak CRIB-
BAGE BOARD and
Card Drawer, pure
silver-plated mounts,
15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and
pure silver-plated on nickel silver,
Other styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d,
TONGS,
12s 6d.
20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Leather Travelling ROLL, fitted every
convenience, 20s. Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Ladies’ Crocodile Leather PURSE, pure silver mounts
and lock, in tan or green, 8s 6d. Other styles, 4s 6d,
5s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
Oak PEPPER MILL,
pure silver-plated mounts,
So 6d. Others, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
Gent.’s TRAVELLING CO M
PANION, comprising Brush,
Comb, and Mirror, 10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s.
WrlTj
OLRKBOS SALT
CASTOR, pure Silver-
mounted, 3s 6d.
Others, 3s 6d, 5s 6d.
IPffTpj
Wwcncis RowbotuamiC!
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation CUTLERY SET, comprising set carvers,
J-dozen each Dessert and Dinner Knives, best Sheffield
Steel, £2 ss. Extra Mounted, £2 10s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSIYIITH, and OPTICIAN, i
A. SAUNDERS
( 809, 811, 813, 815, 817)
| GEORGE-STREET, )
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


-y; ?
X
if f
W
/
f ...
r
C/
vm
>
lx .
X
-
■
WErl r
SW» ■ «Mn
\
fe
“■«■" ' Vs
m
■v.
*%>
V:
...
\
%C —
-o-^xm
mh
v * Avi\
r'
m
mm.
kr -iXv/Pj^rN
.:o. :
s > / -
..■ if/,- .
fefe
wwfe. *
“Where there’s smoke there’s
fire !’’ and it’s possible that
where that smoke is I’ll find
that young varmint and my
packet of CAPSTAN
CIGARETTES!


masmmmm
m
mm
wwkm
mmm
Sgsj&pgjsS;-i&vw-
immmmm
mmm
iV.V
•-V.V.V
av. *
AW,
Si
Tse “SUN” Grain and Fertilizer Drill
DISC and HO£.
i
Hi
The “SUNBEAM” Gang Plough.
2,3, and 4 Furrows.
Ki!
The “SUNBEAM” Disc/Plough.
2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Funfows.
“SUNRISE ’’/Stump-Jump Harrows.
vVjS::.:
Lgent. for Crossley’s Oil Engine*
Portable and Stationary.
u
The
■
msm
m
m
liwpl
e
1
7
Mto
F 1) C
Si
m
The “SUNRISE” Stump-Jump Plough*.
2 to 8 Furrows.
mm
wm
Ilk 1
The “SUNRISE” Stump*Jump Disc'Rlough.
2,3, 4,5, or 6 Furrows.
as®
SUND
L ” Disc Harrows*
“MAXIM** Chaffcutter.
h
Melbourne.Sydrvey, Adelaide *
sai\3QvertC9-P<2rfh, D&lqelye -Brjjtafve


i
Wok (yiATToN) EnlclisH oa Italian
Tamil/.
Genera/ & Commerc/s/Su/yeds.Sirpi/t#.
fipply; W.\.Cook MPA
“MIRTNA STATIONCHARTERS TOWERS.
Missing Friends.
HERBERT MARSH, of Tuxford, Notts.,
Ultramontane, your address is sought.
Reply to “LOCO CITATO,”
Mirtna Station, Charters Towers, Queensland.
ATARY THERESA AX TELL “ (formerly
Mary Theresa Smollett), the wife of
JOSEPH AXTELL, formerly of Carters Towers,
carpenter, is requested to communicate with the
undersigned. If the said MARY THERESA
AXTELL be dead, Five Pounds will be given for
the Certificate of her death if presented before
the thirtieth dav of September, 1900.
MARYLAND & MARSLAND,
Solicitors, Charters Towers.
ANN MICHAEL would be pleased to hear
from her son, ALEXANDER MICHAEL,
who left Upper Copmanhurst six years ago for
Queensland. Last heard of at Cairns, Queensland.
Any information as to his whereabouts will be
thankfully received by his mother,
ANN MICHAEL,
Upper Copmanhurst, N.S.W.
Alcoholic Excess
TOBACCO and DRUG HABIT.
Permanently cured at patients’ own homes
voluntarily or secretly. Sure, safe and effective.
Recommended by the Profession, Clergy and Tem-
perance Societies. No detention from daily routine
work. Write or call for full particulars, even thing
THEE and STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
The “ANALEPTIC” CQ., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King of
Briar Pipes
obtainable
fro m all Tobacconists
1
fit
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
II
M
HI
II
l
111
m
m
iti
n
Til
Queens G&.teTerra,ce
London. S.W. /
UNDER
THE
FASHIONABLE;
HOTELS IN
LONDON
NOTED FOR'
'ITS COM FORT &\
CONVENIENCE
ROYA
PATRONAGE
ENDORSED by
HEDICAL HEN!
•-V
J-lERE’S a MEDICAL BATTERY that is endorsed
by medical men all over the country. It is a
genuine battery that will give relief in cases of
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, and all Nervous
Troubles. The finest electric belt ever made cannot
approach this Battery in any way.
THE OSBORN & JERDAN
Electric Medical Battery
POST 355. FREE.
MONEY REFUNDED IF UNSATISFACTORY.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd,,
“ nY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Eledricians,
393 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
(Facing Royal Hotel).
95,000
“THE WAY BACK SERIES,
VX/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/8; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Bulletin Story Book:
By Sixty Bulletin Writers. Cloth, 300
pages ; price, 4s. 6d.
WEAR THE WELL-KNOWN
PERFECTA” SHIRT
(Regd). For Everyday Wear it cannot be beaten.
Ready to Wear
In Oxford Materials,
51 6
Fifty Patterns to
Select from.
HM.-tntfiur.mn
JICLBOUftNE
M
u
m
k
r
l
m
m
ALSO . . .
The Celebrated
‘CESTUS” SHIRT
Ready to Wear
In Ceylon Materials,
51 6
(Regd.)
For Country Wear.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD.
Shirtmakers,
BOURHE ST.,
MELBOURNE
ĥ
THIS WONDERFUL AND
USEFUL NOVELTY for
2s 6d.
The “Radium” Cigar and Cigarette tighter
'<k.
CAN BE CARRIED IN THE POCKET.
ALWAYS READY FOR USE.
THESE marvellous “ RADIUM ” CIGAR and CIGARETTE
LIGHTERS are just about the most ingenious little contrivances
that have ever been invented. This wonderful appliance con-
sists of a small, highly-nickelled case measuring only 2J inches long,
as shown in the illustration. The igniting device is simplicity itself :
Some thin Platinum Wire Thread is fitted on to the inner cap, whilst
in the body of the Case is an ordinary Wick which is saturated with
Methylated Spirits. As soon as the top of the Lighter is removed, the
Platinum Thread, being susceptible to the Spirits, at once ignites the
Wick, which continues burning until the top is replaced again.
THE “RADIUM” CIGAR and CIGARETTE LIGHTER is certainly
a most useful article to everybody. Of course its advantages are not
confined to smokers. We all have to use matches frequently :we all
need this grand Pocket Ignition Device. It costs practically nothing
to keep ; just a little Methylated Spirits poured in when required.
The “ RADIUM ” CIGAR and CIGARETTE LIGHTER can only be obtained from us direct,
so you should send in your order now. THE PRICE IS ONLY 2s. 6d. ; 2d. extra for
postage anywhere. If Stamps are sent, you should add 4d. for exchange.
One of our TRICK CIGARETTE CASES is given free to every purchaser of J-dozen or more,
or we will send the two articles anywhere on receipt of Postal Note
for 3s. 6d f or Stamps 3s. 10d.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 6 Moore St., SYDNEY
ħ
/
Sjft:
WHIM.
William Fleming# 1 equitable bw, george s t ,Sydney.
mg/
ft) ffiaoidnufoj you,
Jafo/iual Y-mUaMd/ for uJ
fuwc coma fottly u/i/b> uouT'
zotrmafo for cdmrmt/ yWtoi ■
faction, hi/ co
mtiarui %cu/cn
Have You a PHONOGRAPH?
h
If so, what are you paying for Records ?
COLUMBIA Gold Moulded Records
are superior to all others in Tone and
, Durability.
PRICE 1/3 EACH -
Write for our New 72-page CATALOGUE, and
particulars of our exchange offer on old and worn
Records.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. (Genl.),
Australian
Headquarters :
25 Ash StSydney, N.S. W.
The Rexer gun has been earning a reputa-
tion in the present S’African war against the
Zulus. The Rexer isn’t a machine gun, but is
almost as good as a Maxim ; it isn’t a rifle, but it
can be carried and worked by one man. In future
battles the Rexer is going to take a big hand.
British Government seems to be genuinely
alarmed at the state of affairs in Egypt. Ihe
trouble there has been long brewing. It actually
began when the old prophet Muhamad lay dying
at El Medinah. Muhamad chose his father-in-
law Abu Bekr to lead the prayers, and then died.
It was held that the selection gave a sort of
shadowy title to represent the Prophet as his
Khalifa, or Vicar, and there was no objection to
Omar the Just succeeding Abu Bekr. Ali, husband
of Muhamed’s daughter Fatima, followed.
Then there were rows and rival Khalifas, and
a dynasty of “Fatimite Khalifas” reigning in
Cairo. That is the origin of the great Muhama-
dan schism between the Shiites, who hold
that Ali and his sons were the only legitimate
leaders in prayer, and the Sunnites. The
Fatimite Khalifas had a pretty good innings
before Saladin overthrew them at the end of the
12th century. In fact, the Druzes of Syria to this
day regard one of them as a divine incarnation.
The Persians, many Syrians, and practically the
whole population of Egypt, are Shiites. The
Turks are Sunnites, and ever since the Amunt
Mehemet Ali and his family have held sway in
Egypt the people have been sullenly discontented.
English rule has made the conditions better,
but they still regard the army as an appendage of
the Khedive, who is, at best, a foreigner, and a
pestilent heretic into the bargain. If the British
had the sense to pack the phantom Khedive off to
Constantinople or Ceylon, or somewhere, and
frankly run the country themselves, they would
have less trouble.
"Written Specially by “ Ralph the Rover."
Once more I grasp the caustic pen
To picture to the minds of men
A figure, neither gaunt nor coarse,
And introduce Miss “Argus ” Sauce,
With Saucy lips for Saint or Sinner,
A welcome guest at every dinner.
To City men on Hades’ brink,
Who cannot spare the time to think ;
To struggling Cocky in the scrub,
This “ Argus ” Sauce improves your grub ;
To all who live on beef and damper,
A bottle should be in your hamper.
Brave battler through the flies and dust,
When thoughts of tucker bring disgust;
With language livid, black and blue,
This Sauce is just the thing for you ;
It makes the rank ramstag merino
Go down like lamb in Riverina.
When further North in tropic zones,
Cold shivering ague rattling bones,
With Barcoo rot, and Barcoo spew,
This “ Argus ” Sauce will pull you through ;
A bottle puts you in the saddle,
The wild-eyed brumby colt a-straddle.
To far outsider, cattle thief,
It gives a zest to stolen beef;
For often have I eaten that
At “ Lingerandie ” and “ Bailgetfat,”
On Cooper’s Creek and Diamantina,
The Thompson River and Georgina.
On Western fields, where from the can
We eat our potted fellow man ;
For “ Argus ” Sauce we humbly pray,
To take the human taste away ;
Here Pharisee and good Samarian
Are equally human-eat-arian.
Now, in conclusion, man’s a muff
To patronise imported stuff ;
lie starves our Native industries
To fatten those beyond the seas,
And, though he thinks himself in clover,
He wins the curse of “ Ralph the Rover.”
If your storekeeper cannot supply “Argus”
Sauce, send us a post-card, and we will see that
you are supplied. Blogg Bros., Melbourne.


m
&
&
m
v(
3K
is
-
Wtg
m.
m
*
%*•
rs
wai
<t**
-*»' v l' fc - -
at
-"' y *
?*'
W/fa* ;2 *
•*6 "€®t«awi-jr'
•-
**&
IE
BEALE
in Australia.
PIANO*S
are made in Australia by Australians for Australia, under patented inventions which
you cannot obtain in any other Pianos. And they are expensively made—and, what is
more, they are most expensively made in the very parts which do not show. The
public demand the best that is reasonably obtainable; the merchant demands the
cheapest, always cutting out something that he thinks the buyer will not give him credit
for—things the buyer can neither see nor know. Our aim and object in selling direct
from factory to user is to give the buyer all possible points in his favor. Necessarily,
this costs money, and so, we repeat, BEALE PIANOS are expensively made. We use
only the very best materials ; we employ only the highest skilled artisans, each man a
specialist at his particular work. AH this means money. BUT, in selling direct from
factory to user in Australia, avoiding 20 per cent, duty, freight, exchange, European
agent’s charges, and the importer’s enormous profit, we make enough saving to cover
this expense, and the price to the consumer for absolutely the Best Pianos on the
market is no more than he would pay for second-grade imported goods.
SEVEN THOUSAND BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
ARE NOW IN DAILY USE.
A FACT MORE ELOQUENT THAN ANYTHING WE CAN SAY.
BEALE & COMPANY, Ltd.
474 Georg'e St., Sydney.
107 Swanston St., Melbourne.
10l Brisbane St., Launceston.
Branches and Travellers Everywhere.
207 King St., Newtown.
127 Rundle St., Adelaide.
015 Hay St., Perth.
Catalogues and Circulars FREE for the Asking.


LEMON WHISKY
WHAT IS IT ?
ri IHE subject of this article, for several important reasons, should be given preference o
' I ' ordinary whisky. It is less intoxicating, yet more satisfying, and is therefore destined to fill
I a grea/ want—a beverage suited to persons of temperate habits, yet not
stintulant which strikes the happy medium between ardent spirits and the mawkish soft dn .
Lemon Whisky supplies this want; It is at once a stimulant, a luxury a food, and a medicine. A
haDDV combination of all the qualities which are essential to an ideal beverage.
TheTnSedients used in this preparation, although simple and familiar to everybody, possess most
impolnTSS qmlities. ft if no. , mysterious chemical componndj.t
preparation of ripe lemons, pure whisky, and specially refined cane sugar. It is guaranteed to be
«** ***«-r«
contained in this unique b.everage ; the authorities quoted are the best known and the highest in the
world : their opinions cannot be questioned.
• lemon juice. , „ . , „ , ,
Dr. Robert Farquharson, late lecturer on Materia Medica at St. Mary s Hospital Medical School,
etc in his work “ A Guide to Therapeutics,” p. p. 208-209, says : . . .
Lemon juice has some important therapeutical properties unexplained by any action it possesses
° Ver ‘< There 1 is persons afflicted with chronic rheumatic pains may often derive benefit
from taking a tablespoonful of this agreeable remedy two or three tune? . a^ with‘ tbei^egs.
“The occurrence of scurvy on board ship is now looked upon as a clear indication that the g
lar administration of lime or lemon juice has been neglected and that the qrew has been , attackedby
a oainful and dangerous disease, the absolute preventability of which experience has amply conhrmeci.
P The same authority points out “ that citric acid, from which most of the so-called lemon prepara-
tions are compounded, is in no degree antiscorbutic. , , -tj .. . , Porlinmant nvprv shiD
It will be interesting to here mention that, by an Act of the British 1 arliament, evei T P
sailing from a British port must provide at least loz. per day of lemon or lime juice for every mem e
1 In Companion to the British Pharmacopoeia,” 1899 edition, p.p. 409, we find :
“Lemon Juice—medicinal properties—refrigerant; when diluted, a particularly useful bever-
age in the prevention and treatment of scurvy ; relieves thirst in febrile and inflammatory affec-
tion n r H."S2„ rh s Zk'r'l,n ,hi 3 I .5b"Lt"S:-“You cannot take too much lemon juice, the
natural salts of which act as a solvent on uric acid in the blood, the cause of so many pain u
maladies.”
WHISKY. .
We will now say something concerning the whisky contained in this ...
Dr Robert Farquharson, while deprecating its excessive use, states . A moderate quantity
of alcohol “ntal faculties, and> often b«efi«d to
to the digestive organs and aiding the due assimilation of food. It is of great service to dwellers
large towns, and others whose mode of life involves much mental strain. ,\ WiEnl
In the “Companion to the British Pharmacopeia,” 1899 edition we read:- Aleohol.-
Medical Properties ■ Internally a powerful diffusable stimulant, especially cardiac; mildly anti-
K aud hSc K ‘crion of alcohol, in dietetic doses at least is efor ' worn
derful power of increasing the activity of the stomach peristalsis
stomach movements ; it promotes very powerfully the secretion of Actually
in dietetic doses, 30 to 40 grammes (about two tablespoonfuls), taken I p efo Tl° n d et influence then of
shortens the time required for the digestion of a meal by half an hour. Phe' “V.™™®?®®* jj 6 ’ th(
moderate doses of alcohol upon stomach digestion, even in health is i^vorab ® thswallsJf the
reverse, while in some conditions of disease its power of exciting the ediMstTon .of solid
stomach, and promoting the flow of gastric juice renders it a valuaUeftif 100h ol unon Sestion can
food The importance of these conclusions regarding the influence of alcohol upon digestion ca
hardly be over-rated,°for they explain much of the benefit often derived from the moderate use of
alcohol even in health, and still more in cases of disease.
SUGAR. _ . .. -
To complete our description of Lemon Whisky, which contains a considerable proportion of sugar,
it will now be necessary to inquire what are the effects of sugar on the human system. In doing so,
agadn'refer to Dr. Robert Hutchinson’s work, treating of the nutritive value
On pp 271 we find it stated that “refined sugar is to be regarded as a practically pure
carbohydrate ; That being so, its food value must be high, for every gramme of it will yield 4 1
calories of sugar is of spe cial importance. We have already learnt (pp. 38) that
carbohydrates are probably the chief source of muscular energy, and sugars, on account of the ease
and rapiditTof their ateorption, are better calculated to perform this function than any other
member 1 of the carbohydrate group.” Dr. Hutchinson’s treatise on sugar is too lengthy to be fully
reproduced in the space at our command ; we will therefore condense some of his more important
“ explorers, the value of saccharine has I Ta 1 sTo which'they are sub-
“ Sugar is given to blood horses in order for sustain them in the trials to which they are sub
“Sugar has a notable effect in lessening muscular fatigue. , • ,
“Vaughn Harley found that if he took 17£oz. of sugar per diem, Ins power of doing work
“vlmblo food for persons who have to perform a single muscular effort,
“^^Ltv^rimLt I hatKiUdTin the Goman Army, and it was found that the men
who w»e grien tenTrps of sugar per day in addition to ordinary rations marched better ami
suffered less from hunger and thirst than their fellows not so supplied. As a result of the experi
ments, the surgeon in charge recommended that the sugar ration be increased to 60 grammes per
ay ‘“ Certain rowing clubs in Holland found sugar to be a valuable food in training. The rowers
who used it always won, on account of their superior powers of endurance, and it seemed to counteract
entitled to first place in the category of alcoholic stimulants, and that it is beyond doubt over
Wte cleanses the blood, quickens the circulation, creates energy,
“ d SSe g «e”»ot B J^ W o™V.M,T„“ppo..ed assertions; the, are the teachings of our greatest
medical authorities, beyond whom there are none to refer to. . « j • f a irp
After a careful computation of the component parts, the it would be advisable to take,
according to expressed medical opinions, would be 10 to 20oz. (half a pint t p ) P
IT MAY BE TAKEN: , . „
Plain in a wine-glass as you would take a liqueur. Diluted with cold water to taste. As a
summer drink. A wineglassful mixed with cold soda-water. A wineglassfui mixed
of cold water, with your meals. For a winter drink, mix with hot wate . _ strong on going to
there is any better cure for chills and colds than Lemon Whisky, if t fntervals will
bed. For a sore throat or a troublesome cough, a teaspoonful undiluted at frequent intervals
Si,e ObSinS'from all Hotelkeepers and Wine and Spirit Merchants throughout the Commonwealth.
LUCAS, LOCK, and CO., Pitt-street, Sydney, are the Proprietors. .
I’ll Try It."
How to Grow A Full Moustache!
The quickest way in the world to get a full luxuriant
moustache is to use the famous
CAPILLARINE 10 6 POST FREE.
It has been sold in Australia for nearly a quarter of a century
and we have yet to hear of a single case of failure.
CAPILLARINE
THE QUICKEST AND BEST MOUSTACHE
PRODUCER IN THE WORLD.
The Result
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
For the Information of the Public .
IN THE SUPREME COURT.
BETWEEN
1906
No. 373
HAVANA COnnERCIAL COMPANY
Plaintiff
AND
DEITRICH MARTIN
Defendant.
BEFOPE HIS HONOR Mr. JUSTICE CUSSEN
TUESDAY THE 26th DAY OF JUNE 1906.
r tPON HEARING Mr. Coldham of Counsel on behalf of the Plaintiff and Defendant
I appearing in person IT IS ORDERED that the Defendant his servants and
agents be and they are hereby PERPETUALLY RESTRAINED from selling
or offering to sell cigars not of the manufacture of the Plaintiff as and for ‘‘Murias ’ Cigars
which are the manufacture of the Plaintiff and from selling cigars bearing a label so similar
to the label on Murias Cigars as to be calculated to deceive one of which labels is attached
hereto and marked “A” or otherwise using or employing or permitting to be used or
employed any labels wrappers brands or marks so similar to the plaintiff’s labels wrappers
brands or marks as to represent or lead to the belief that the Cigars sold by the Defendant
are cigars manufactured or sold by the Plaintiff.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
&
PRIZES value £l5OO
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
Drawn 27t8 OCTOBER., 1906.
First Prize, valxie £5OO.
Second Prize, value £lOO. Third Prize, value £63-
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Grace Oowdery, Waterlo °.
Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on 2nd
November, 1906. Tickets may be had from Agents in all Country
Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
mrauDO •pij.wmtTT nnNTR ACTORS.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
All Parts or cnejtono. em'x*' A TUWPT9 C 5 Specially Constructed
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
m M _ KTmm**. -m M A€.
Passenaers. General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
for Conveyance of
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE
LANGTON GRANGE
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,750
3,700
5,600
9,200
10,000
6,000
6 330
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS
Tons
6.300
9,200
10,000
6,350
11,200
11,000
7.300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated E*wllen tSYDNEY^*" IO L ‘ ght ‘
Buenos
Africa.
SLAVES TO DRINK
CAN
NOW
BE CURED
WORTH KNOWING-
Its fame, like gold, the more ’tis tried.
The more shall its intrinsic worth proclaim.
WORLD WIDE.
EUCRASY.
The celebrated and ONLY safe sure and speedy
ANTIDOTE TO DRINK. THE SYSTEM ONCE
IMPREGNATED BY THIS REMEDY, THE USE OP
ALCOHOL MUST CEASE.
PROVE IT.
The Eucrasy neutralises the effect of Alcohol, and
promptly corrects and stays its use. It supplies the
place of the accustomed liquor, and prevents_that
absolute physical and moral prostration which so
frequently follows the sudden discontinuance of stimu-
lating th£ D/psoMANiACt
EUCRASY is a positive and certain
Antidote to Drink, and Cures the
Worst Cases.
TAKE IT IN TIME. SEND FOR OUR BOOK.
The acknowledged Cure for DRUNKENNESS, for the
Liquor Habit Inebriaey, and Alcoholism (in any form).
CAN BE GIVEN SECRETLY or otherwise. Placed in
a cup of Tea, or Coffee, or in Food, its presence cannot
be noticed. Warranted perfectly harmless, and easy
to administer. It operates so quickly and with such
certainty that the Patient undergoes no inconvenience,
and ere he is aware his complete reform is effected.
An overdose is harmless, and It does
not Impair or injure the health in any
way.
EUCRASY IS ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT A RIVAL.
Book ol Particulars and Testhuonials t 0
Headquarters: THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter 51, Sydney.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
entertainments, ln * R Manv of our agents are making
Amplifying. Horn. with Concert whi( f a we give away
Pr g e f °send y uf your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
« ee ‘ wfli, t ;fp Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
°f our biew u^t he rec F ived a nd we will promptly
them at 1/- a box, th nse or work, the valuable premiums as
i.d you *a be delighted.
£.. old, teliahl. htm, .»J
who can prove them no"'matter what it costs us. Send at
XT “» t. w. W. take ell risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
ĥ
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
• • Charlie ” McDonald, the new Chairman
~f Committees in the House of Reps., is said to be
the best authority on Parliamentary practice in
the Commonwealth. With him Parliamentary
law is more than a hobby —it is a passion. Years
when he was first elected to Queensland Par-
liament, his vigorous opposition to the party in
i tower led to his being cast out for disorder on
several occasions. He then resolved to read up
Parliamentary practice, with a view to getting
his sav in, or out, without falling foul of the rules
of the House. In a manner he has learned the
rules by breaking them, and holds the record as
a suspended legislator for Australia.
A long recess has its economical as well as
political uses for the heads of Parliamentary,
parties. Premiers nowadays are not so generous
as those of the past, but, however frugal they are,
a sitting House means more expense than one in
recess. In old times the things Ministers did in
the way of food and drink to keep an Assembly
together for a long sitting and a big fight were
memorable. Dibbs spent as much as £6O in a
night, and Parkes, one all-night sitting, owed
£BO for hospitality to his followers. Barton paid
£3O from time to time for the incidentals of a late
sitting, while Robertson spent about three-fourths
of his salary on the members about him.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
. *Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Week thereafter.
LONDON .. £lfi
CAPETOWN and NATAL i° 3 s to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine,
•ror Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
. Agents, 7 Bent street, Sydney.
i,rH™ Agents: JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
Jll William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents: HENRY WILLS & CO
J 8 Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
MON, LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
The Sank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. . . .. .. 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES 11ELLICAR,
Superintendent.
Queensland national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. '.. 413,240 15 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 48,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ;F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLI IMS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. .J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |jeiii Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Bankof |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Sydney Office: Corner Ceorge & Bridge Streets.
Manager— Local Director—JAMES BURNS, Esq.
J. P. Canny. (Messrs. Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.)
CAPITAL —Authorised . .. .. £700,090
Paid-up .. £lOO,OOO
Uncalled -. .. 250,000
Reserved Fund .. | 20,000
(Invested in Government Stock) / £370,000
OCEAIN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of Loudon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
HI*
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office —96 Bfshopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
JXr. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Ma.il Service
G,S»™ B 4 OOKED t0 Effj-pt, Naples, Genoa,
'jioraJtar, London. Anrwprr. n»iH
•Twin-Screw Sleamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
TO CHINA and JAPAN
Sml) Everv Four Weeks, via NEW BRITAIN,
NLN GUINEA and MANILA to HONGKONG, KOBE
and Yokohama.
■PRINZ WALDEMAR. 3300 tons.. 4th AUGUST.
*PRINZ SICISIvlU D, 3300 tons.. 1st SEPTEMBER.
•WILLEHAD, 4701 tons .. .. 29th SEPTEMBER.
•Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed
Safely and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For lurther particulars apply
to the Agenls,
LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Pe Royal Rank of Queensland
J.l Ml TICIh ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,538 10 0
KK8KRVK LlAKIMTY OF ShARRIIOLDKRS .. 175,812 10 0
Reserve FuNii(Invested in Government Stock) 60,000 0 0
,, , _ £099,351 0 0
Head Ofhce : BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. O. Dav. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alkord
London Office :
31 RUDCE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.P.
17 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TN€ »B€RP€€N LIN€.
Natal, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT FREMANTLE, W.A.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape and Natal .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
p
PLYMOUTH and LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail on or about
11th AUGUST,
SUEVIC, PERSIC, RUNIC,
and MEDIC to follow.
KAUKS—Capetown .. .. £l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Aprlication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dah/eh/ and ('oinpaui /, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
O c 'E A-KTIC S.S. 00. -A.. & A. LIPJE (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Atlantic Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
FARES TO ANY DESTINATION AS CHEAP AS ANY OTHER FIRST-CLASS LINE.
R.M S. VENTURA. 6200 TONS. SAILS MONDAY, JULY 23.
boy bull Particulars and Illustrated Matter , send or apjuy to—
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., flanaging Agents,
CORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS. SYDNEY.
# WINTER
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
,wi
HOLIDAYS'^
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Baron
Falls and district.
Send address for Ulus- •*
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. ——- ■■mil | §
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
fflont depete o.#|.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £20,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROW.MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS-
Aug. 6, Sept. 3, Oct. 1.
GRAND EXCURSION.
£6O Including all Expenses. £6O
Across the Pacific to Vancouver,
thence by the Canadian Pacific
Railway to Glacier, Field, Laggan,
and Bauff. The C.P.R. has splen-
did Hotels at each of these places,
where all Expenses are included
in the fare above quoted.
£3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. "Si
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF M.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WOwDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laug'hter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Slice, of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
X
New York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
FIRE HAS NO TERRORS!
CAPITAL, £1,900,000.
ACCUMULATED FUNDS exceed £500,030.
ANNUAL REVENUE, £300,000.
Fire has NO terrors that Fire
insurance cannot quell.
I Put the South British on guard
GEO. K. MOORE, Manager.
CHAS. T. METCALFE, Assistant Manager.
™ e South British
PIRE and MARINE INSURANCE CO.,
12 Bridge St, Sydney .
S&ipplng.
THE ADELAIDfSTEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Grantala, July 21.
S.S. Innamincka, July 27.
BRISBANE, 1
MACKAY, I
TOWNSVILLE, f
And Ports North to Cairns. J
S.S. Marloo, July 21.
'S.S. Wollowra, July 28.
S.S. Innamincka, August 4.
Rest ami Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Conipan3 T ’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lVlessageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
Batavia, and. Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIER DE TIIUY, Principal Agent.
PETTYS HOTEL,
SYDNEY
decorated, remodelled and re-furnished
now offers every comfort to visitors, and will be
found one of the best appointed and up-to-date
Hotels in Sydney. The position is unsurpassed,
Central, and away from the noise of trams.
Private Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts
and Receptions can be arranged.
TRAINS AND STEAMERS MET
C. W. CUPIT, Manager.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wil find every omtor and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, a to 5 Beacon jfield Para da
Sl'. HILDA.
jL largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach,
cnarges much lower thanlicensed hotels. Citv, 1-hour
t>y tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
THE (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
flodern Appointments. Hoderate Tariff.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
%A/ 1M POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Nenry Skinner,
(JJareiidoii-sfc., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 101,3.
Mr. Skinner lias a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far tlie largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Suppl.ed.
Visitors to Melbourne
WILL FIND
THAT. . .
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being- close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.


Dor\t wait for
THat Bald Spot
3
%
r
Baldness
is Curable.
VERY few people believe it
possible to get their hair
back when once it is lost.
Let me assure these that
where a “down” exists on the
scalp nothing is more certain than
. that this down can be made to grow
into strong healthy hair with the
aid of “Capilla.”
Notone case, but thousands, have
come under my notice, and I have
I yet to meet with a failure ; in fact,
I am now so confident of the hair-
growing possibilities of “ Capilla ”
that I will forfeit £lOOO to any per-
son with a down on that bald spot
if the proper use of “Capilla” will
not make his hair grow. “ Capilla ”
is designed both for the prevention
and cure of baldness. It keeps the
scalp healthy and clean, prevents
dandruff and premature greyness,
and stops the hair from falling out.
Sold everywhere at 1/C and 2/C a
bottle, full course posted direct for
17/C from the Inventor,
W. O. Richards,
IGG Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Advice personally or by letter
cheerfully given free of charge.
PLEASANT MEMORIES.
DLEASANT memories linger around the celebrated Plum
Razor. Beyond the shadow of a doubt the best razor
ever made at the price or even higher.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Razoleo Lightning Razor Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-.
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALASIA.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 5 ?5«i l r.
THE PLUM RAZOR 10/6 POST FREE
ħ
Tbe BRUNSWICK
Household
ICE MACHINE
is, as its name implies, a machine that has been brought
down to the small capacity required for a private house.
In short, where hitherto it has been impossible for the
private house or the large boarding-house to get a
machine that is not “ miles too big,” the BRUNSWICK
has solved the difficulty, and will provide you with as
small a quantity as 2001 b. of refrigeration and 101 b. of
actual ice. This is a boon to those in the Country and
. _ Bush who have perhaps power—they only want J-horse
power for the smallest size of machine—and can drive a small refrigerator. A small scheme of cold storage is
the greatest luxury it is possible to have, and we invite inquiries from squatters and others before the hot
weather comes in. Tell us what you want to do, and we will give you thefullest information as to how to do it.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., sag*-"*. 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
Agents for Sharpies’ Tubular Separators, ‘ Hercules ’ Oil Engines, &c., &c.
HEADACHE, ® FRUST
BILIOUSNESS
AND CONSTIPATION. Q£& | "S’" ®
Eso I a
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’S ’FRUIT SALT,' Without It you bare «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Praparad only by J. O.BNO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
A PAINT with a GUARANTEE ?
We guarantee in every instance where our Elastic Carbon Paint is
used according to directions that it will last on any surface for a
period of Five Years. Should not prove as represented we will
furnish free of charge all the paint which may be required to keep
the surface in good condition for the stated length of time.
“ARCO”
Elastic Carbon Paint
Weatherproof, Fireproof. Dries with a Perfect
:: :: Lustre, EQUAL TO ANY ENAMEL ::
As its name implies—it’s ELASTIC. Unaffected by EXTREME heat
or cold .... Will not PEEL or BLISTER, always ready for use, and
will not taint or discolour rainwater.
Acknowledged by ALL Paint users as the BEST Wood and Metal
Preservative known.
Serviceable for Painting
Tanks, Roofs, Pipes, Sugar Refin-
eries, Mines, Smelters, Railway
Stations, Smoke Stacks, Farming
Implements, Cyanide Vats, or any-
thing requiring the application of
:: :: :: a first-class Paint :: :: ::
Manufactured in RED, GREEN, BLUE, BROWN, and BLACK. Write for
SAMPLES and further particulars.
Manufactured Only By
The Atlantic Refining Co.
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
EQUITABLE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
WHOLESALE AGENTS
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
W. D. MOORE and HARRIS. SCARFE & CO., Fremantle.
TASMANIAN WOOLGROWERS' AGENCY CO., Launceston.
J. S. MUNRO, Zeehan.
iilllllllM-'ilnr))'
■ f fj;W //
Kl
SL! SJg
S'
o :
D
C2JL&
1
i
ELASTICCARBON faint
MANUFACTURED BY
ATLANTIC REFINING CO,
I CLEVELAND, OHIO.
J U. S. A.


SPOONED
RBessiHS
Gives
Permanent
Polish.
PRESERVES AND
CLEANS THE
LEATHER.
Sold by all Store-
keepers and Boot and
Shoe Shops.
Consumption
Can Be Cured.
9
r*
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, whose
discovery of a Cure for
Consumption has startled
the World.
Marvellous as it may seem after the centuries
of failure, a cure for consumption has at last
been found. After twenty years of almost
ceaseless research and experiment in his
laboratory, the now renowned specialist, Derk
P. Yonkerman, has discovered a specific which
has cured the deadly Consumption even in its
far advanced stages. In many cases, though
all other remedies tried had failed and changes
of climate were unable to check the progress of
the disease, this wonderful specific has conclu-
sively proved its power to cure.
Whatever your position in life may be
if you are in consumption, or suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, catarrh, or any throat or
lung trouble, this cure is within your reach,
for it is a home treatment and need not
interfere in any way with your daily occupa-
tion. Prove for yourself its healing power
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Simply send your name and address
to the Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd.,
901 Dixson Buildings, Sydney, and they will
post to you a free trial treatment of this
remarkable remedy.
Don’t hesitate or delay if you have any of
the symptoms of consumption. If you have
chronic catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, pains in
your chest, a cold on your lungs, or any throat
or lung trouble, write to-day for the free trial
treatment and full instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11 -.
Thousands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLI’ORT A POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
THIS IS A SNAP!
.o XOT DELAY sending for one of these excellent
Watches in Gun Metal or Xiekel Silver Las .
Every Watcli Guaranteed First-class Tiihekeepers.
D
Two years’
with every
For a tfood,
Timekeeper
cannot
12 6
Guarantee
Watch.
serviceable
tliis Watch
be beaten.
:>
Sent Post Paid to any address in Australia on receipt
of 12/6.
THE UTILITY SUPPLY CO.
35 Post Office Chambers,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IJ#
SPI
SPIRO Powder SPIRO
A BOON FOR HOT WEATHER
KILLS ALL ODOR OF PERSPIRATION.
NO MORE SORE AND ACHING FEET.
DOES NOT STAIN ANYTHING. EASILY APPLIED.
1/3 per box to any part of the State.
Grand Views of Niagara Falla Given
Away to Purchasers.
Australasian Agents— AMERICAN H\GIENIO
AGENCY Ltd., 177 Liverpool St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for Victoria— Grant, Bradley &
Co., Fulham Place, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Distributing Agent for Queensland— Alfred Moon,
37 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Distributing Agents for West Australia— P. Falk &
Co., Ltd., Henry Strejt, Fremantle.
FREE SAMPLES, ALL STATES, ON APPLICATION.
DEAFNESS
Head Noises, Discharging Ears, and all diseases
of the ear permanently cured at your own home
by pure natural aural kinetics. No Medicine. No
Electricity, but nature’s own treatment, safe and
effective, endorsed by the highest Medical Author-
ities Call or write for full FREE particulars.
» EAROSCOPE ’ CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
JM9
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
, gratify your ambitions and produce amuse*
j meut by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
| Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
1 free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about thi» marvelous science. It contains
be utiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Kemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
h
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, aa Pitt St., Sydney.
WILL ANDRADE... BOOKS
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition, Is ; post Is
3d. BOOK OF NATURE and Illustrated Alarri-
age Guide by Dr. Faulkner, illustrated withoverso
engravings, genuine 1904 edition, hard covers, im-
proved. Donelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, Is. Maria Monk, Is
6d. How to Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d each.
Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. .Up-to-Datb Comic
Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, 1/3. Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d.
The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is 3d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Freemasonry Exposed and Ex-
plained, 1905 edition, with key to all de-
grees, Is. Cycle Building and Repairing,
new edition, 190 illustrations, Is 3d. De-
cameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the First
Night, 1/3. How to Write Signs, Tickets and
Posters, Is 3d. Staining. Varnishing and Polish-
ing Wood, Is 3d. Electric Bells, 1/3. Boot-
making and Repairing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise :
Hypnotism and Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal
Gustave, Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
Piano Tuning and Repairing. Is 3d. How to Make
Love, Is. Modern Etiquette, Is.
NOVELTIES
\ I
1!
-
vi
ft
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
Picture Frame Making,
Is 3d. Poultry Keeping,
Is. Dream Book, Is.
Every Man His Own
Builder, Is and Is 3d.
Confessions of a Mel-
bourne Barmaid, illus., Is
3d. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring
Entertainment, Is 3d.
How to Bet and Gamble,
Is 2d. Kropotkin’s Fields,
Factories * and Work-
shops, Is 3d. God and
My Neighbor, 9d, p. Is.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, Real Photos, 200
Kinds, 7s 6d dozen, 3 for 2s.
ZINCARA CIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CASDS, LOVE, BUSI-
NESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions, Is ; posted 1/3.
Engineer's Practical Test : engines, boilers, gas
engines, dynamos, 4/6. How to Make Ur, Illustrated
Guide to the Stage, Is. New Tricks with
Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th
Century edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400
colored plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Saitiio,
genuine, Is. Dynamos and Electric Motors, Is 3d.
Midwives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing, Is. Building Model
Boats, Is 3d. New Tricks with Coins, ls. Phrenology,
Is. Blacksmith’s Work, 1/3. Lover’s Letter Writer,
Is. Photography, Is. Tocology for Mothers, 7s 6d.
Dictionaries, 9d, Is 3d, 3s 6d, 15s post. Age of
Reason, Is 3d. Ingersoll’s Works, 9d. Irish
Song Book, Is. Lightning Calculator, Is. Min-
strel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, Is 3d Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post Is 2d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Free Catalogues.
508 GEORGE ST.
201 BOURKE ST.,
SYDNEY
(OPPOSITE
VICTORIA MARKETS)
AND
MELBOURNE.
MELBA AGGORDEONS
ĥ
ħ
h
Produce the
most . .
delightful
music.
They are
easily learnt
No know-
ledge of
music being
required to
become a
skilled
performer.
NEW 1906
MODELS
With 1,2, 3, or 4 sets of reeds, six, eight or ten
fold double and triple Bellows with metal bound
corners, and all latest improvements.
Prices from 7/6 to 26/9.
Packed and delivered free to any Post Office or
Railway Station in Australasia.
Ask for our 1906 Illustrated Catalogue. We
will send it Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. Propy. Ltd.
376-278 Collins Street. Melbourne.
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Are Perfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee Is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronographs
No. I—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Guaranteed 2 Years,
£2 10s, post free. With Silver Case, £3 15s.
No. 2—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, with Minute Re-
corder (as illustration), Guaranteed 3 Years, £3,
post free. Silver Case, £4 10s.
No. 3—Gunmetal Open-face Keyless Chronograph,
25 Jewels, Split Seconds, with Minute Recorder,
Guaranteed 3 years, £7 10s, post free. Silver
Case, £lO, Open-face or Hunting.
Warranted to be the Best and Most Serviceable
Racing: Watches made.
Sent Post Free and Duty Paid to any Address in
Australia.
W. DUNKLING,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
INSTANT RELIEF.
POWELL’S
Balsam-Aniseed'
COUGHS
Fop COLDS
ASTHMA
BRONCHITIS.
»Safe for Children.
TRADER
I MARK
°** ANISE&t*
Chemists & Stores. Be sure A
jyou get Powell's with above
Trade Mark.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
oft RX CORO®
€.SS^ CE ° y V.* FE "
The only Infallible Remedy fa/ WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is Cd. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
ĥ
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name nr
ħ
There seems to be a settled conviction that
when Joe Ward returns from London and takes ■
oyer the Premiership (if Hall-Jones doesn’t change j
his mind in the meantime), the new captain will
promptly jettison dismal Jimmy Duncan, who at
present bosses the Lands, and “U.S.S. Co.”
Mills, who runs the Customs. Jimmy is expected
to go overboard quietly, but Mills is made of
sterner stuff, and will probably object to being
dropped into the whale.
Repdut o* the Australian Senate Standing
Orders Committee for 1905 embodies some inter-
esting decisions. It is not in order to describe a
Senator as “a political jelly-fish,” or his language
as “absolutely false,” or “ horrible,” or “dis-
graceful.” You mustn’t accuse him of cowardice,
or hypocrisy, or untruth. To describe the Premier
of a State as a “bandit ” is improper ; and so on.
N.S. Wales would break its heart under such
rules. Scarcely an Assembly sitting passes lately
without the use of language which ought to be
written down on paper and handed up to the
magistrate at the end of a pair of tongs.
Maoriland, in addition to having the
longest Premiership on record, has some records
in the way of short ones. It had two successive
Ministries which lasted 26 days between them
(Bell-Sewell 13, and Fox 13). It had two more
successive Ministries that lasted 18 days between
them (Stout-Vogel 12, and Atkinson 6). Two of
its shortest-lived Ministries were run by the same
man ; Atkinson who lasted 12 days on one occa-
sion and 6 days on the other. Also Maoriland
would have the shortest Ministry in Australasia
if Dawson, with his 6 days’ record in Queensland,
hadn’t tied with Atkinson. Tasmania’s best
record for brevity was Weston’s 17 days’ Premier-
ship. S. Australia is full of short-distance records
—Baker, 11 days; Torrens, 29; Waterhouse, 9;
Dutton, 11 ; Ayers, 13; Hart, 19 ; Ayers, 21;
Strangway, 18 ; and Sudden Solomon, 7~. Queens-
land had two sprint Premiers. Herbert, 18 days;
Dawson, 7 days. Neither N.S. W., Victoria, nor
Westralia ever produced a real short-distance
Premier.
“ Flap ” puts in a word of praise :
You have been giving it to Panton, P.M., lately, and
deservedly, but you go too far in demanding that he
should retire. You want to watch Panton over a series
of years, as I have, to judge him properly. Then you
would know that, although he is alleged by some to have
every fault a magistrate should not have, he is the best
man sitting on any Vic. Bench. This sounds paradoxical,
but it is true. A casual visit to Melbourne City Court
makes an onlooker leave horrified and indignant that such
injustice should be done. A dozen visits satisfy him
that, in spite of ail his glaring faults, the old man is a
mighty fine man for the billet. Panton’s faults are
shocking. He forgets the law in his haste. I have seen him
impose sentences in excess of those which the statutes
allow. He is full of strange and unaccountable preju-
dices. For a man to say he comes from Sydney appears
to be equivalent to a plea of guilty. He looks with an
over-lenient eye on thesassiety offender, and in nine cases
out of ten shows extra bias in the direction of accepting
police evidence. In the tenth case, he is even worse in
the opposite direction. There are some constables who,
in the opinion of police court habitues, could not obtain
a conviction before Panton were they supported by the
sworn testimony of the Angel Gabrial. One day, a ‘man
was arrested trying to sell gold watches in the street.
Taken to the watchhouse on suspicion, he was found to
have every pocket filled to the brim with second-hand
and unaccounted-for jewellery. Next morning’, the police
wanted a remand for further inquiries, but when the
accused said that he had got the jewellery from another
man, who asked him to sell it, Panton raked the police
fore and aft, and demanded why this reputable citizen
should have been dragged away from his honest employ-
ment. He was discharged without a stain on his charac-
ter, and the jewellery was restored to him. Investiga-
tions, which the police made for their own amusement
afterwards, showed that the reputable citizen had a
record in other States of half-a-dozen sentences. Another
weakness of Panton’s is that his sentences are dispropor-
tionate to his remarks. He is liable to compliment a man
who uses his fists for following the noble British fashion
of pugilism, and then send him to gaol for three months.
The Dago sailor who slices open his mate’s scalp may
receive a lecture upon the use of the knife in a British
country that makes him think he is going up for 10 years.
Then he may be fined ss. These are Panton’s faults. His
virtues are indescribable, but they are there. He knows
the criminals of Melbourne as well as he knows the detec-
tives. He is an excellent judge of character when he
doesn’t rush away in tow of a sudden prejudice, and very
seldom goes wrong in his estimate as to whether a wit-
ness is speaking truly. Panton’s rough-and-ready methods
result in better justice than would be administered by
many a better man. Only one better police magistrate
than Panton has adjudicated in Victoria of recent years
—G. 0. Morrison, now Under-Secretary.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
SOME BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
B
m
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EM BRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
o H mihanmir.
are as io exists, aciciucauowcu-u,... V iT i , » l
sand questions that occur to the minds of young* and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their Chapters
wmcn iney ieei a delicacy in consulting 1..- r --. .
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
2s6dposted. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book uy De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating tiib
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Od posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Stolen Sweets, Is Gd. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigii hor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Od. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Gd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 hinds, 1s 3d dozen.
Gipsv Fortune Telling Cards, Love, Business,
Futurity, &c. , with full directions, Is posted.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working i*or Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brassing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Flay Billiards, illustrated, Is post.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man llis Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers llandybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d. A Life
OF PLEASURE, lS 6d. LUNG COMPLAINTS, IS 6d. FRENCH
Self Taught, Is 2d. All these prices Post Paid.
Don’t bo fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, iiiw? list&bltshGd 1 &ctis .
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS OR POSTAL NOTE.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
llow to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Lov,e and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Exposed 1906 Edition, Is posted.
'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology,
7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances, 2s. Ingersoll’s
Complete Works, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s (id posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, 2s Gd. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood,
ss. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. New Tricks with
Coins, Is posted. A Modern Siren, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS
h
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo»* welcome relief
in a very short time.
+# v
ĥ
HOW I GREW TALL
A Startling Story which will Interest
all who are short*
The Height of Either Sex can
quickly be increased from
Two to Five inches.
These Marvellous Results can be accom-
plished at home without the knowledge
of your most Intimate friends.
Tne Free Book tells you all about it.
%
1
A
lilt. K. LEO MINGES.
Inventors, scientists, and physicians have for
years been trying to find some method whereby
the height of an individual could be increased,
and up to the last few years have met with failure.
It remained for a comparatively young man, Mr.
K. Leo Minges by name, to discover what so many
others had failed to do.
Mr. Minges resides in Brighton, N.Y., and has
devoted the best part of his life to studying and
experimenting on the Cartilage, and his great
efforts have at last been crowned with success. A
large company, composed of Brighton’s leading
citizens, has been formed for the purpose of
placing Mr. Minges’ discovery and inventions
before the public, so that now it is possible for
any lady or gentleman who is short to increase her
or his height from two to five inches. These
results are absolutely guaranteed.
Mr. Minges has successfully used his method on
himself, and has grown from a short, stunted
boy to a handsome, robust man of six feet one
inch in height. Thousands of people living in all
parts of the world are using his method with
equally as startling results. Let us send you the
absolute proof of the above statements. We have
just issued a beautifully illustrated book, entitled
“ How to Grow Tall,” which contains information
that will surprise you. Ten thousand of these
remarkable books will be given away absolutely
free of charge in order to introduce them. If yqu
fail to receive a copy, you will always regret it.
This great book tells how Mr. Minges made his
wonderful discovery. It tells you how you can
increase your height and build up the entire sys-
tem. It contains the pictures and statements of
many who have used this method. After you
receive the book you will thank us the longest day
you live for having placed within your reach this
great opportunity.
Remember, a postal card will bring it to your
very door, all charges prepaid. All correspond-
ence strictly confidential and sent in plain
envelopes. If you wish a free copy of this book
and the proof of our claims, write to-day. Ad-
dress The Cartilage Co., Dept. 52E., Brighton,
N.Y., U.S.A.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So d bv all Chemists.
The GRANDEST DIVER PIED in tHe WORLD
“ Take a Cockle’s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/1$ to 22/-
COCKLE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
Jt\e Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benqer’s admirably
preparation.”
V/je British Jfiedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
ħ
For INFANTS,!
INVALIDS |
and lhe AGED. I
Benoer’s i ood is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
FOOD
Thus Harwood, of the Victorian House of
Rich Landlords :
It is not an unmixed good to raise our loans locally.
The country was never so prosperous as when id was
borrowing money abroad at 3 or even 4 per cent.
And the farmer is never so prosperous as when
spending the money for which he has mortgaged
his land and plant. And the tired man in the
burst boots and the pair of trousers made of a
stolen corn sack, who still wears a monocle and a
lisp, was never so prosperous as when doing-in the
boodle he got from the Jews on the strength of
his splendid expectations. The fact that the Jews
now possess the splendid realisations, and the
temporarily prosperous man possesses only the
aforesaid hessian trousers, doesn’t have any sig-
nificance to a person with a towering intellect like
that on which Harwood, M.L.C., balances his
sacred belltopper.
Cape Colony lias decided to give a tariff
preference to Britain and to any British possession
w hich will give Cape Colony a preference in
, . . , , . .
return. As an essay on the right way to give a
preference there are many points about the new
Cape tariff. Bor instance, the duty on candles used
to be Jd. per lb. all round. Now the duty against
British candles is per lb., and the preference
is arrived at by making the duty on imported non-
British candles about |d. In every case the pre-
ference to Britain is given, not by reducing the
duty on British imports, but by raising that on
non-British imports, and sometimes by raising
both of them, only giving the non-British the
larger rise of the two. If Australia ever goes in
for a preference system, that is the idea to
follow. It would make three gradations. First,
as the most favored person, the white British sub-
jeefc iii Australia; second, the white Briti. v
subject in the United Kingdom; third, the rest
of the globe.


ft
ft
Are you troubled with a nasty, irri-
tating, and often painful cough every time
the cold weather comes round ? A tickling
in the throat, tightness in the region of the
breast-bone, loss of voice on rising in the morning,
heavy and labored breathing, sometimes giving rise to a sense
of suffocation ? Do you instinctively fear the cold, damp,
foggy days ? Are you very susceptible to chill ? Are you
obliged to cough incessantly in church or at public meetings;
and do you often feel a desire “to clear your throat”?
If any of these things trouble you, Bronchitis has
claimed you for a victim.
Bronchitis drains the vigor of the strong and permanently
cripples the aged and weak. It kills off more old people than
any other single disease. Hence the importance
of speedily adopting some safe and certain treat-
ment possessing a direct influence on the actual
tissues of the throat and lungs, which are the
tissues affected.
This is essentially the treatment afforded by Peps.
As they dissolve on the tongue, Peps emit all the
rich pine fumes with which they are stored; and these
pine essences, as the breath is taken in, bathe the mem-
branes of the throat and bronchial tubes. Peps (unlike
liquid medicines, which are merely swallowed into the stomach)
thus bring a powerful antiseptic and healing agency into
direct contact with the tissues injured by the incessant
coughing. These pine fumes quickly subdue the inflammation
which is the beginning of Bronchitis, and repair the injured mem-
branes; while the accumulation of phlegm (which prevents the easy
passage of air between lungs and mouth) is more easily got rid of, and
the delicate air-tubes are strengthened and fortified against the perils of
these changeable, lung-chilling and feet-wetting days.
Peps bring relief in the most advanced cases of Bronchitis, and if persevered in
will so repair and strengthen the tissues that the disease is entirely dfiven from
the system. No longer are the lungs worn and torn by incessant coughing.
No longer is the breath obtained with difficulty; and no longer is there oppres-
sion, pain, or tightness about the chest.
Peps are an exceedingly effective medicine, safe for the most delicate adult
and the youngest child. They are a concentration of the richest pine essences
in combination with certain other pure medicine of great healing value in lung,
throat and chest disease. They may be taken at any hour and in any quantity,
and can only do good. A mother only does her duty when she administers
Peps to herself or children upon the first sign of wheezing, barking, hoarse-
ness, difficult breathing, or throat inflammation. No home should be
without a box of Peps.
Vi'
‘vfti
m
m
m
aim
m
m
m
>m
S£«
i
i.i .
B
[1
K
mi
r/m
wm
m
,
r
/
M
fk^
m*
ww9i
s&
r-b
*|W»
S'*
$*
dlf J
W
A~A
m
FO
-J*
I
JfJ
SUDDEN WEATHER CHANGES.
It is not the coldest days that cause the biggest epidemic of bron-
chitis, pleurisy and pneumonia. Far more dangerous from a health
standpoin t are the changeable days, the days that are feet-wetting and
lung-chilling—one moment warm, and humid the next.
Get the habit of always having a box of Peps with you when setting
out on a train-journey, or on any long walk, or drive cross-country. -
Peps are the most unique family medicine for coughs, colds, chill,
influenza, lung-weakness, bronchitis, difficult or heavy breathing,
wheezing, pains and tightness of the chest, tonsilitis, asthma, consump-
tion’s hacking cough, hay fever, running at the nose, cold in the head,
croup, children’s colds, whooping cough, sore or relaxed throat, huski-
ness, and loss of voice. They' are invaluable to clergymen, teachers,
lawyers, singers, and public speakers.
In case of pleurisy, pneumonia, indigestion, flatulence, and for lung
and throat diseases due to the dust and odors of one’s employment,
Peps are also of great service. PRICE—I/6 per box, of all Chemists,
O' post free for same price direct from the PEPS PASTILLE CO.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
USELESS COUGH MIXTURES.
Bronchitis “ cures ” and other liquid medicines only produce the
appearance of a good effect by reason of the opiates or other pernicious
drugs which they contain, it is not to be expected that any quantity
of narcotics swallowed into the stomach (and entirely missing the lungs
and bronchial tubes) will really cure Bronchitis. The failure to reach
the real tissue means postponement of the cure and aggravation of'the
evil. Peps are distinguished from these old-fashioned, and often in-
jurious medicines in that they, Peps, contain no opiate, chloral,
ammonia, cubebs, or any other unnatural substance liKely to upset the
stomaclvand kidneys, or lead to pernicious drug habits. The security
of Peps fits them pre-eminently for general and family use. A box at
hand is equal to “ A Pine Forest in Every Home.”
FREE
TRIAL.
Try PEPS Free. Send this Coupon and
Id. stamp to PEPS PASTILLE CO.. 39
Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W., when a free
test sample will be sent on at once. Note
full.postage on inter-State letters.
Sydney Bulletin, J uly 19/’6.
I


FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
IN OUR ....
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING DEPARTMENT
WE ARE NOW OFFERING SPECIAL VALUE IN
Made to Measure in PURE-WOOL FANCY TWEED WORSTEDS of
Australian, New Zealand, and British Mannfacture, and in
PURE-INDIGO SERGES and COATINGS.
for PATTERNS, and FORMS WITH FULLEST INSTRUCTIONS for SELF-MEASUREMENT.
These Suits are not of the Machine or Factory-made to Measure variety, but High-class Tailor-made.
BiG T B E L6bk, Edward & Adelaide Sts., BRISBANE.
Kidney Disease Can be Cured.
From Mr. F. Andrews, farmer, Aspenaale, via Mordialloc, Vic., 12th August, IJO4. , ,
“ Previous to about a year ago, I was remarkably healthy and strong, but my health then 010 le
down and I was seized with severe pain around my kidneys and my heart. My appetite became very
capricious and I began to lose flesh rapidly. When in that condition, not knowing what the outcome
would be, I heard of Warner’s Safe Cure from one who had taken that medicine, and began to take
it myself. I took it as directed, and it has completely and effectually cured me. 1 have had no
return of the trouble since.”
From Mr. J. ft. Bavinton, corner of Barldy and New Streets, North Brighton, Vic., 22nd March,
FJOS. .
“For many years past I have been subject, at frequent intervals, to excruciating pam in tno
region of the kidneys. Whilst the attacks lasted I used to suffer terribly, and, for some time, could
scarcely straighten my back, being bent almost double. lam inclined to think that the trouble_WJs
first brought on by a severe strain, which, in some ivay, affected the kidneys. I tried to obtain rewe
by taking advertised remedies, but derived no permanent benefit until I took Warner s Hate Cure. I
had only taken the contents of two bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure when the pain was entirely removed,
and I have since been able to work without pain or inconvenience.”
From Mr. P. Burns, Bootmaker, 1(52 Bourke-street, Sydney, N.S.W., 7th March, 1905, .
“ Having caught a severe cold, which I unfortunately neglected, it ultimately developed into
kidney complaint. I suffered excruciating pain in the back, down my right side, and, at times, m the
region of inv heart. I also had periodical attacks of piles, which gave me great trouble. 1 obtained
the advice of a doctor who prescribed for me, but the medicine did me no good. On the advice or a
friend, who had derived great benefit from taking Warner’s Safe Cure, I decided on giving that
medicine a fair trial. I bought a bottle, and, as I found that it was doing me good, 1 continued to
take it, and soon became strong and free from pain, and was able to get about my work as well as
ever. I feel that it is my duty to recommend Warner’s Safe Cure to anyone suffering m a simifar
manner.”
From Mr. F. H. Davies, 11 Ada Street, South Fremantle, W.A., 27th October, 1904.
“ Two years ago I suffered terribly from pain in the small of my back, which was so severe that
I could not stand upright. A friend of mine, who had suffered in a like manner and was cured by
'Warner’s Safe Cure, advised me to take that medicine. I did so, and began to feel better after taking
the first bottle. In a very short time all the disagreeable and painful symptoms disappeared, and 1
was quite cured. I have had no return of the complaint, and can heartily recommend Warner s Sate
Cure to all sufferers from kidney troubles.”
From Mrs. Mary Gordon, Second Street, Bowden, S.A., 3rd December, 1904. , ,
“ For a long time I suffered unceasing pain, almost torture, from chronic pain in my back, head,
and sides. I was under the treatment, for several months, of one of the leading physicians of the
city, who said I was snffering from kidney disease, and treated me accordingly. Month after month
went past, and I gradually got worse and weaker each week. Seeing that the course of treatment
and medicine was doing me no good, he, at last, decided that it would be necessary for me to undergo
an operation in order to effect a cure, and, if I did not consent to that, he could do nothing for me.
At that time I was in such a weak and helpless state that I felt sure an operation would only hasten
my death, so I decided to consult a herbalist, who, I had been told, was very clever. After a short
consultation he said that I was suffering from an abcess in the stomach, and that he could cure me tor
a sum which it was beyond my means to pay. My husband, who had just got some work m the
country, sent me some money, and advised me to buy some Warner’s Safe Cure, and dike a course
of it, as he had heard it well spoken of. I got some of the medicine, and commenced to take it
at once. In a few days I began to feel better. I continued to take Warner s Safe Cure, getting
stronger each day, until I was quite cured. The pain and weakness all left me, and I was once again
able to do my household work. lam quite convinced that Warner’s Safe Cure saved my life.
From Mr. Joseph Mudkins, Burn-street, Inverrnay, Launceston, Tas., 10th October, 1904.
“ Fourteen years ago I was cured of dropsy by taking Warner s Sate Cure, and had no return of
the complaint until July last, when my feet, legs, and eyes were so much swollen with dropsy that 1
was laid up in bed. I took Warner’s Safe Cure again, and am thankful to say that I am now on my
feet again. I might also state that I have taken several vials of Warner’s Safe Cure. 1 heartily
recommend Warner’s Safe Cure and the Pills to anyone suffering as I did from dropsy.’
From W. H. McGlew, Esq., J.P.. Springside, Smith’s Mill, W. A., 11th November, 1903.
“ Seventeen years ago I was suffering with Bright’s Disease of the kidneys. I was treated by two
doctors, and by them was gi veil up as incurable. They had been attending me for some time, and finally
decided that it was impossible for me to recover, and told me that I must prepare for the worst, lhe
announcement came as a great shock to me, and more to my wife and family, who_ were greatly dis-
tressed. At the time my head and body were in an alarming state, being swollen right up to the eyes.
I had a vague feeling of unrest and tenderness in the kidneys ; I suffered from extreme wakefulness
and gradual failure of strength also, as I was not able to keep anything in my stomach, lhe fact that
I am alive to-day, is, however, proof that doctors are not always correct when they tell you you are
going to die. I did not give up hope myself, and was determined to live as long as possible. Provi-
dentially, about this time, one of Warner’s Safe Cure pamphlets was placed in my hands, and in it I
read a letter from someone who had suffered from the same complaint, and had been cured by taking
Warner’s Safe Cure. lat once decided that, as the doctors said they could do no more for me, I
would give Warner’s Safe Cure a trial and see if that would do me any good.' I sent immediately
for a supply of Warner’s Safe Cure, and a vial of Warner’s Safe Pills, and commenced taking these
medicines without delay, keeping strictly to the diet rules given, which I believe to be most
i mportant, in order that the medicine may do its work without hindrance. I did not at first inform
the doctors that I was taking Warner’s Safe Cure, for fear that they might object to my doing so
After taking a few bottles I began to feel better, and this gave me faith to continue. The swelling in
my head and body went down gradually, and I continued to improve in health, gaining strength each
day. The doctors were delighted at my rapid and almost miraculous recovery, but when I informed
them what medicine had produced the result, they would scarcely believe me. In a few more weeks
I had quite recovered my normal strength, and have since had no return of the complaint, and am in
as good health to-day as ever I was in my life. To prove that this is so, agents for insurance co. s
have offered to insure my life for any amount.” , " ■
A treatise containing full particulars and valuable diet directions will be sent, post free, by H. H.
-Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne, Victoria. [l-
h
ĥ
ħ
h
“NEW RIVAL”
LOADED SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
The “New Rival” is a grand good cartridge ;
good in construction, good because it is
primed with a quick and sure primer, and
good because carefully and accurately
loaded with the best brands of powder
and shot. It is a favorite among hunters
and other users of black powder cartridges
on account of its uniform shooting, evenness
of pattern and strength to withstand
reloading. A trial will prove its
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
SORE
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT
FOR SORE AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, iIND,
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
RAIL-S
Ask youp Chemist for the Little Book:
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES
CURED
The Inky Way.
The old-established London magazine. Good Words,
which used to be one of the few religious periodicals
worth subscribing to, has been taken over by the in-
satiable Harmsworth. Before it started on a gradual
career of degeneration, Good Words abounded with such
c mtributors as Jean Ingelow, Henry Kingsley, Gerald
Massey, William Black, and George M'Donald. But its
chief glory was the wonderful black-and-white work of
Sandys, Houghton, Lawless, Burne-Jones, Millais, Pinwell,
l’ettie, Walker, and other great illustrators. That, how-
ever, was a long time ago. Under the new management
the publication’s star author is the Rev. Joseph Shocking,
who has gained notoriety by turning out “ Flames of
Smithfield ” horrors, and some of the illustrations from
Harmsworth’s art-foundry are by a man who has exactly
three faces in stock —one for his men, another for
his women, and the third for any animal of the lower
creation which chances to be about.
* * * »
Took a first-class single for the Unexplored the other
day at Frankston (Vic.)—William Fisher, who for many
years bossed the Post at Devonport, Tasmania. Fisher
probably employed about half the journalistic population
of two States during his connection with that paper, for
it was only in rare cases that his reporters stayed with
him for more than a fortnight. He was bluff and blunt, and
would as soon have told the Seventh Ned to go to as
he would the office boys. He was a master in the use of
language, and could swear a bullocky speechless. Under
his reign the Post was counted the Toriest of Tory rags,
and the man who made the most headway with Fisher
was he who could invent the most extravagant account
of the doings of the “ Socialists.” Fisher was suc-
ceeded in the chair by H. O. Sexton, and since then the
paper has mended its ways.
* ’ * * *■
Mr. W. S. Murphy writes thus from Croydon (N.Q.):
“In a recent issue of your paper, a correspondent,
referring to the destruction of the News office by fire,
and to the fact that the insurances totalled £BOO, asked,
‘ What was in the office, anyway ? ’ The insurance was
made up as follows: Building, £230; Ingle’s printing
machine, £100; Arab jobbing machine, £4O ; Otto oil
engine, £lOO ; guillotine, £3O ; type, £l2O ; stock, £lOO ;
furniture and fittings, £45 ; Albion press, £25 ; perforator,
stitching machine, etc., £lO. There were 250 cases of
type in the office. Your correspondent talked about the
class of printery on the Croydon goldfield thirty years
ago, but gold was first discovered here in ISB6 by
YV. C. Brown and the Aldridge brothers. Brown, who
made much money in the early days of the field’s history
and lost it again in mining, is still (at seventy years
of age) working a show here. My new plant has
arrived, and the News .will be running again in about
a fortnight.” [This correspondent seems to issume an
artificial lack of humor as an excuse to work in his
artful cheap advt. The humorous maunderings of
an alleged press patriarch are always liable to be
loose on dates, and are expected to be so. And the
off-hand manner in which the Croydon News man seizes
the opportunity to enumerate his stock, fixtures, fittings,
and his up-to-date plant generally, including the per-
forator, shows him to be a man of business. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
“ U.”: To gain a profound disrespect for the average
church, one only needs to put in a term as advertisement
clerk on a daily paper, as I once did. The moneyed
church easily takes the bun for advertising meanness and
trickiness. Deacons of Bethels that pay the shepherd
about £25 a week come whining round the Waily View’s
premises until the manager agrees to insert their weekly
shilling ad. for sixpence. (The dailies accept almost any
meanness from a big church, and take it out of the
ordinary unsanctified advertiser.) Then Deacon Peck-
sniff makes all of the allotted number of- words
long ones, like Antinomianism and undenominationalism.
\\ r hen the churches are going to contribute portion of
the offertory to the Hospital Sunday fund some of them
have the brazen effrontery to ask for a further reduction
“ for charity’s sake.” And the big sanctuaries get it,
but the poor little suburban Ebenezer has to pay full
rates every time, unless it happens to have a rich im-
porter on its Board of elders.
* * * *
S.M. Herald has recently been keeping up the jubilee
of the Hunter-street office and giving some account of its
previous home in Lower George-street. The genesis and
the homes of the Herald are as follows : founded in 1831
by Stephens, Stokes and McGarvie, first home in Lower
George immediately opposite Essex-street, then known as
Gallows Hill (that building still stands though much alter-
ed.) In 1833, Stephens and Stokes (McGarvie, a bookseller,
retired) moved the Herald office to No. 5 King-street
East. In 1835 Stephens and Stokes brought the Herald
printing office to Lower George-street, opposite Queen’s
Place (recently re-named Dalley-street). In the early
forties the “ home ” was across the road in Underwood’s
Buildings, with Kemp and Fairfax as proprietors. In
1856 the S.M. Herald came to Hunter-street, and has
stayed there ever since.
“Billy” Donald, formerly of Bathurst Advocate (a
Lithgow boy), now managing editor and part proprietor
of the China Mail (Hongkong), and Lionel Pratt, another
Australian, the sub-editor of the same paper, have
brought out a “ Who’s Who in the East,” which is selling
well. Donald represented the Telegraph and various
English papers in Tokio during the early stages
of the Sake-Vodka war, but . could not get
away to the front. He wrote to the Sydney
paper, announcing his arrival in Japan, and stating
something to the effect that henceforth his path would
lie in the shadow of crossing swords. When the Japs
kept him out of the shadow for three months, he went olf
in disgust ; but later made a scoop in French China, when
he sent telegrams to the English press about how the
Baltic fleet at Ramram Bay was making holes in inter-
national law large enough to throw billy-goats through.
Pratt, more patient, got away eventually to Manchuria
with the Japs, and did some good stuff for the S.M. Herald.
* * * *
E. S. Cunningham, who succeeds David Watterston in
the editorial chair of Melbourne Argus, is a Tasmanian,
and began his inky career in 187(1 on the Hobart
Mercury, which has been a great nursery for journalists.
He joined Melbourne Age reporting staff a few years
later, and passed over to the Argus as leader of the
staff in 1884. When Vic. Irrigation Commissioners Deakin
and Dow went dredging for information among the
waterworks in the United States, Cunningham accom-
panied them and wrote up the damp pilgrimage for
S.M. Herald and Argus. Also, he represented the two
“leading Australian dailies” at the London Colonial Con-
ference in 1887, and “did” Queen Victoria’s Jubilee
junketting for the Argus in ’97.
* * * *
A story of N.Q. journalism : The editor, J. Smith, was
in the habit of gazing on the wine when it was rich and
rare. At one period of the paper’s existence, it didn’t
make its appearance for two consecutive numbers. The
proprietor found that his editor was very drunk, and
was lying in No. 3 room at the Diggers’ Doom Hotel.
The proprietor edited the next number himself, and
printed a long obituary column, containing various intel-
ligences about J. Smith. Two hereunder: —
“ We regret to learn of the death of our editor and
esteemed townsman, Mr. John Smith, who passed away
in room No. 3, at the Diggers’ Doom, at 4 a.m. to-day.
K.1.P.”
“ The friends of Mr. John Smith will kindly attend his
funeral which moves from No. 3 room at the Diggers’
Doom at 3 o'clock this afternoon. Gone, but not for-
gotten.”
He also printed the biography of John Smith, in which
it was stated that J.S. spent most of his latter years in
suffering a recovery in room No. 3, Diggers’ Doom Hotel.
John Smith recovered, so the proprietor printed an ex-
planatory par in the next issue.
“ We are glad to inform our readers that our editor and
esteemed townsman, Mr. John Smith, wasn’t dead (in the
proper sense of the word) after all, but was only dead
drunk in room No. 3, Diggers’ Doom Hotel. We must
apologise for disappointing the many friends of the
(alleged) deceased.”
* # ♦ *
“Ejayem”: N.S.W. Parliamentary jubilee revived
recollection of James 11. Palmer, the first official short-
hand writer in N.S.W. and probably in Australia;
for he was appointed in 1844. The ancient
came from the great Gurney office, which was
famous for its shorthand writers before Pitman was
even heard of. In the old days the Gurney men in
the gallery of the Commons were noted for their
mechanical accuracy; Dickens was one of the best
of them. The Vic. Government shorthand writers’ staff
was all Gurney. Hemming, Webb, and George Bell
(afterwards chief clerk at the Treasury) preceded present
chief H. E. Wade. All used the quill— ttiere are no thick
and thin strokes in Gurney, and, once acquired, it’s easy
to read. If one man gets a load of stuff, the others can
share the notes. Wade, after he became chief, did a lot
of this. About 12 years ago a retrenching Govern-
ment proposed to amalgamate the Goverment short-
hand writers’ office and Hansard. Of course,
neither of the two recording shops liked the idea.
Shortly after this squabble a vacancy occurred on Han-
sard, and George Octavious Webb (son of the former
chief), who was third man on the Government shorthand
staff, reckoned he’d get out of the austere officialdom of
the office, and find a more congenial atmosphere at Parlia-
ment House. But Parliamentary reporting is not a
matter of mere shorthand-writing. A man must be
trained at the graft. Webb, excellent in his
own line, was not only unaccustomed to the
menagerie business, but found (as almost all men
do in a new gallery) the greatest difficulty in learning.
So he got flurried and lost his head. E. B. Loughran, as
usual with a new man, took a check note. Webb after-
wards returned to the Gurney office. A somewhat simi-
lar unlucky experience befell Johnnie Briggs, who,
after he left the Age, went on Hansard under
Loughran. Both went down on “ nerve.” The
return of Webb to the Government shorthand writers’
office caused great consternation. The reputation
of the establishment, and of Gurney, was challenged.
Fowell Buxton Lincoln, second in command and a perfect
hammer- and-tongs note-taker, stepped into the breach
to do or die for Gurney. At this time a permanent
change was made in the Hansard accommodation, which
gave fair play to the new man—Hansard men were
allowed to take their notes at the table of the House,
and there Lincoln’s quills screeched and recorded the
proceedings with top-notch accuracy. Loughran was
good enough to sweetly congratulate Lincoln on
“ being able to do work up to our standard.”
It would be hard to say who was the best man turned out
of the Gurney office. George Bell was perhaps unsur-
passable. Even in hell-fire work he correctly placed his
dots, and in the days before the typewriter came into
vogue he would arrange his notes in three separate sets
and keep three longhand men industriously plodding
together at dictation, the connection with the notes
being maintained by the dictatee giving the catchword.
Wade, on a fairly decent job, made a copperplate
note, and denoted his periods by a small space—
a great assistance in transcribing. Lincoln made
a sort of unvarying corrugated iron note, and if the others
were perplexed over any of their own records, he could
pick them up and elucidate them with astonishing ease.
The late Judge Webb (brother of Hemming Webb) was
also a Gurney man. After he came to Australia, the
Argus held a competitive examination, so as to select a
first-class shorthand writer. He entered, and easily
beat all the others, but as a pressman he hadn’t the
original faculty. The worst that can be said against
the Gurney system is that it requires a greater physical
exertion to write than Pitman. Gurney “ breaks ” more,
and the arbitraiy phraseograms are not so scientifically
worked out as in the universal system created by “ Izak.”
Chief Justice Samuel Griffith carries to
the Bench his aloof and solitary habit of life.
When he was in Queensland politics Mr. Griffith
never haunted the lobbies to yarn with members ;
he strode from the House as soon as business was
over, and was off for a lonely walk or a solitary
ride on his white horse. In Sydney he is seen but
seldom, and is said to take most of his exercise
walking at night, when the push is abroad, and
the derelict is looking for stray valuables in the
ash-barrel.
“Bobby”: Turning over some old files
of a Tasmanian newspaper the other day, I became
aware that fifty years ago some men could have
their own private police force in that happy land.
In this old paper it was announced that Patrick
Michael Hooligan, or something, had been
gazetted special constable to the Roman Catholic
Bishop of Hobart. The clergy of all sorts had
good times then. The only R.C. priest at Hobart
in the twenties and early thirties was Father
Connolly, who was a paid Government chaplain.
The C. of E. chaplain was also a “ beak.” He
sent convicts to gaol, and then ministered to them
in the cells—a useful sort of Government instru-
ment. Well, Rev. Knopwood and Father Con-
nolly were on speaking and eating terms, and
when a man named O’Mulligan or Macßrady
came before his reverence and his worship for a
small crime he used to pass sentence like this :
“Three weeks hard labor in Father Connolly’s
garden.” And so Father' C. had his cabbages
planted, his ground manured, or his praties dug
just in the nick o’ time, gratis and free. Still,
O’Mulligan or Macßrady lived like a fighting cock
while he was at the presbytery, and was a trifle
sorry when he was turned out of gaol.
THE JOURNALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Burton, who writes for the papers
(He’s written these thirty years),
Finds matter for fun in the capers
Of men—their laughter and tears.
He dwellS'on the latest rumor
That glides through the city street ;
And touches the hour with humor
Till it passes with shining feet.
He cellars the finest sherry
Of any man that I know—
The blood at its touch turns merry,
And it sets the soul aglow.
Burton’s a glorious fellow,
His jests just sparkle and shine ;
He’s fun—pure fun—and as mellow
As a drink of his own good wine.
But ask him to write a leader,
And mark how he changes then ;
He bows to my lord—his reader—
And writes with a reverent pen.
His wits that galloped at pleasure
Are slowed in their headlong race ;
His thoughts to a solemn measure
Troop by at a seemly pace.
lie writes for an august paper,
Whose grand, thought-shaping power
Is still like a vagrant vapour
That passes within the hour.
Yet while in a diction level,
He curbs his fancy-flights ;
He says that a lurking devil
Sits by him the while he writes.
While pleading for worthless causes,
lie hears its laughter rise ;
And when in thought he pauses,
It stares him in the eyes.
Burton is fond of joking,
He is brave, and yet I feel
His work is somehow choking
His manhood, true as steel.
To waste one’s soul for ever—
Its beauty and its youth—
To write and to write, and never
To write one’s inmost truth.
And yet the little devil
Who laughs at power and pelf
May lure him from the level,
Straight path—to write himself.
I picture the frenzied caper—
The antic weird and droll—
Of the owners of that paper—
Should Burton voice his soul.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


Badly Affected With Sores and
Crusts Extended Down Behind
the Ears Some Years Later
Painful and Itching Pustules
Broke Out on Lower Part of
Body —Son Also Affected.
A TRIPLE CURE BY
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“About ten years ago my scalp be-
came badly affected with sore and
itching humours, crusts, etc., and extend-
ing down behind the ears. My hair
came out in places also. I was greatly
troubled; understood it was eczema.
Tried various remedies, so called, with-
out effect. Saw your Cuticura adver-
tisement, and got them at once. Ap-
plied them as to directions, etc., and
after two weeks, I think, of use, was
clear as a whistle.
“I have to state also that late last
fall, October and November, 1904, I
was suddenly afflicted with a bad erup-
tion, painful and itching pustules over
the lower part of the body. I suffered
dreadfully. In two months, under the
skilful treatment of my doctor, con-
joined with Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment, I found myself cured.
“Six years ago my son was laid up
with a severe cold, a hard cough, and
finally painful eruption all over the
body. I procured the Cuticura Remedies
as soon as possible, and after his faith-
ful use of same was as well as ever in
two weeks, as well as I can recall. He
has never had a return of the illness,
as far as I know.
“ I have always been pleased to com-
mend the Cuticura Remedies, and testify
as to their efficacy. I am a veteran of
the late Civil War, ’6l-65. H. M. F.
Weiss, Rosemond, Christian Co., 111.,
Aug. 31, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Deference: R. Towns* Co., Merchants, Sydney, X. S. W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills
(Chocolate Coated, in vial of (10), may be had of all drug-
gists. A single set often cures the most distressing cases
when all else fails. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston, U. S. A.
ffiS~jMailed Free, “ How to Cure Eczema."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, X. S. W.
Clean White
Teeth mean sound teeth, fit for their
, work, the condition they are kept
ijn by the use of
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Tooth Powder,
Jt is made for* cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
A FREE GIFT SALE
5....
ss
i'W
7/6
For one month,
as an advertise-
ment, we offer
5,000 Beautiful
Black Ostrich
Plumes, 1 £ in-
ches long, 7/6
Post Free.
GIVEN
AWAY.
Post Free
One
Pom Pom Oiven Free to everyone
this month. Catalogue i'rce.
to-day. Send postal notes.
Feather
ordering
Write
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP.
.Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
ĥ
putting
(Honey
in
fheir
pockets
There are thousands of young’ men and women
working in stores and factories for small wages, who
have the ability to earn more money. Get out of the
rut. Tread a new path. You can do it if you’re in-
terested in the process of putting money in your
pockets. We have something distinctive and original.
Just send your name and address and tell us the paper
in which you read this advertisement, and we will
reply by return post.
The Agents & Mail Dealers Co-operative Society,
359 Collins Street, Melbourne.
V. J. Daley’s ‘‘ At Dawn and Dusk, ” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
ONE YEAR OF MISERY
Was Ended by the Use of Only Three Bottles of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
WHAT A NORTH RICHMOND WOMAN
SAYS OF HER ILLNESS AND CURE.
The North Richmond Hotel, in Victoria-street,
North Richmond, Victoria, is presided over by
Mrs. Violet A. Cohen, a young married woman,
who is a native of Victoria. Before entering on
business life she lived in the country, had the
benefit of the fresh air and food which that life
affords, and was a hearty, healthy woman. After
taking up city life she fell ill of indigestion, and
suffered great pain and distress for qver a year.
Finally she was quickly and inexpensively cured—
by using Mother Spigel’s Syrup —as she tells in a
letter, dated November 15th, 1905.
She says : “For 12 months I suffered severely,
was always sick after eating, and had a sour,
bitter stomach. I became weak, and pined away,
losing 22 pounds’ weight in eight weeks. I was
never free from pains, and was very low spirited
and nervous. I tried medical treatment, but got
no permanent relief. Then I tried a well-known
blood mixture, and also took massage and Turkish
baths, at an expense of several guineas a week.
About six months back my husband persuaded
me to use Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and I obtained
more relief from it, within 24 hours than from
all the other things I had tried, and three bottles
quite restored me to my former good health,
condition and spirits.”
Mother Seigel’s Syrup has been known all
over the world for 35 years, and has cured
Indigestion, Biliousness, Constipation, and all
disorders of the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys and
Bowels, where all other remedies failed.
ħ
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building:,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
312-314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Wkst Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Buildimr. Perth
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for. Everything.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
THINK IT OVER i
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Sub-Agencies in all Austra
lian States.
Write for Catalogue.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Solh Australian Agent,
Be Armed Against Punctures!
MIRACULUM
IS A
SURE PUNCTURE STOP
For MOTOR CARS, MOTOR CYCLES, and
BICYCLES. - ■ -
It does not injure Rubber, but tends to preserve it.
Does not affect resiliency of Tyres.
Does not lift patches.
Easily operated, effeptive, and dead cheap.
Bring along your Cars and Cycles to—
Miraculum Proprietary Ltd,
Next Independent Church,
RUSSELL ST, f MELBOURNE,
or write, and a Booklet and Testimonials from the
leading Motorists and Cyclists in Australia will be
sent you.
©•“LIVE AGENTS WANTED IN (VARIOUS STATES.
THINKING
FOLKS
need food that will keep brain and
nerves well nourished else the
brain grows dull and tires quickly.
Suppose you spend a few min-
utes studying the subject and a
few days on an easy pleasant trial
of GRAPE-NUTS food—that
will furnish a clean cut argument
to drive the facts home.
A strong, sturdy, money mak-
ing set of brains can be built on
Grape-Nuts and trial proves it.
There’s a reason.
9
m
awl IaJD la?ia£Jl ll
Business, Robbery, etc.
•J-A.C. : I was surprised the other day. In
the simplicity of my nature I had not considered that
our laws were framed for the protection of swindlers. A
young fellow I know was engaged to drive a delivery cart
tor a purveyor of the stale and indigestible bun. He
worked from early morning till late at night, one
Saturday. That he performed his duties in a
satisfactory manner is evident from the fact that
he was told to return on Monday morning. Mean-
while “Buns” ran across a man he knew, and
en ff a ff e d him, so that when the youth presented him-
self on Monday he was incontinently sacked. He
asked for his wages, for the day he had worked, and “ Not
a condemned bean ” was all the satisfaction he got. Not
having any money to take out a summons, he applied in
forma pauperis to a chamber magistrate for one. The
O.M. refused to grant him a summons unless he got
a recommendation from a J.P. or a minister of
the gospel. I have reason to believe that the
C.M. was riding the high horse on this occasion, for I
have known instances where summonses have been
granted in similar cases without cavil or formality. In
any case, why a minister of the Gospel any more than a
butcher or a baker ; these latter are frequently more
respectable. However, the youngster got a recommen-
dation from a J.P., and returned to the magistrate, who
still refused the summons—this time on the ground that
the case did not come under the Master and Servant's
Act, but under the Factories Act, or Boiler Explosions
Act, or something equally absurd. Now, I want to know
why a concocter of legendary pies should be protected
and allowed to go scot-free while a vendor of the un-
assuming cabbage would probably have been mulct in the
amount claimed and ex’s.
* * * *
“Stony”: As to the American tinned-dog
“ scandals ” : I have had the savory experience of work-
ing in more than one U.S. A. packing-house, and 1 cer-
tainly saw plenty in those days to make me disinclined to
think deeply when eating wursts—or any other kind of
harmless sausage. The chief trouble was the lack of com-
plete cleanliness. One began working again where one
left off the day before, as it were. You find the same
thing with our Australian dairymen and their scalded
pails. I think there is nothing more dreadful than the
odor of a nominally “cleaned” milk-pail. The new milk
covers a multitude of odors. There are some pretty sights
in a packing-house. I remember that one floor—there were
a great many floors—was entirely devoted to the contents
and trimmings of various animals. These contents were
duly sorted out, and the more desirable portions were
sent down divers chutes to the floor below'. I have stood
near a chute and had a whole stream of bullocks’ livers
rain down upon the floor just beside me ; and in another
place hearts, and further along pigs’ trotters, and so on.
That floor w'as never quite, quite snowy-pure.
♦ * * *
Port Phillip is to have its first double-ended
screw boat in a few weeks time. The old paddle steamer
Gem, ferrying between Port Melbourne and VVilliams-
town, is to be replaced by a double-ended screw launch
now being built in Sydney. The Queen, which was sent
round from Sydney six years ago to run in opposition to
the Gem, is undergoing alterations. Its paddles are to
be taken away, and it is also to be fitted with a propeller
at each end. The Gem has easily earned the old-age pen-
sion, having been on the Port to Williamstown run since
1869.
* * * ■*
“ Americano While the police are gammon-
ing to look after Rockefeller, 1 take up a unique
book by a wonderful woman, Ida Tarbell. She gathers in
two vols., altogether 800 pages, her articles from M’Cmjrb
on the Standard Oil Trust. They are masterly, reminding
me of Chief Justice Coekburn’s enormous judgment on
the Tichborne case for the logical generalising and con-
sideration of such a bewildering array of facts. In 1860
the great Pennsylvania oil region was a wild forest,
from which the lumbermen floated their logs
on the Allegheny River to Pittsburg. It will be
remembered how J. O. Williamson came with the
play of “Struck Oil,” when the industry was
yet pretty young. Poor men were glutted and‘gorged
with fortunes far beyond the dreams of their avarice,
though miserable little ant-heaps compared to what the
bosses were to make. Professor Sillman, the eminent
chemist, reported favorably on the oil in 1855. This led
one Drake to put down the first bore at Titusville in 1859.
Then the furore began. The region was transformed
with derricks, towns and railroads, and ultimately came
those amazing pipes for conveying oil without the pre-
liminary trouble of casking or tinning. Rockefeller
early appeared on the scene. Ida Tarbell does not
know whether to compare his operations to those
of Napoleon or the Roman Catholic Church. She gives
the most striking and complete view on record of this
malign genius. Her work opens one’s eyes to the stu-
pendous difficulties which have been overcome by Rocke-
feller and his associates, and you perceive that a myriad
of first-rate men have been engaged. Cannot we per-
ceive, too, how the Trusts are shaping up to give a handle
for nationalisation ? Why should the oil in the earth, the
gold, the coal, the iron, belong to the men who only
bought the surface to scratch? If you buy a mile of land,
do you buy 4000 miles, right to the earth’s centre ? If so,
Spreckels and co. bought the earthquake.
* * * fr
A Melbourne tailor, whose customers are not of
the “ working ” class, surprised the Tariff Commission
somewhat the other day. Having assured his hearers
that Australian products were superior to imported,
price for price, he complained that the local cloth manu-
facturers handicapped him and themselves by refusing to
supply him except through a wholesale house —through
“ the Lane.” He could purchase direct from the biggest
mills 14,000 miles away, but he could not buy from the
mills at his own door. He wanted to do away with the
middleman. He was then asked: “Do you think the
mills could reach the public direct by doing their own
tailoring?” “Yes; but I believe the best solution of
the difficulty is that the State should control the indus-
try.” State Socialism finds friends in strange places.
When the N.S.W. Government announced that
it had purchased 4000 miles of wire-netting from British
manufacturers direct, the local importers were ex-
ceedingly wrath. Their idea was apparently to purchase
the same netting from the same makers, and sell it to
Carruthers for anything over £lO a mile profit that they
could manage to get. One individual announced, when
he heard the Government’s decision, that he and his clique
were going to give all their future orders “ to the Ger-
mans.” Remembering the enthusiasm of the mercantile
community only last Empire Day on the subject of
“loyalty to the empire,” it is a terrible spectacle to find
any members of that body deliberately proposing to
damage British industry, and support the industry of
Britain’s worst enemy, apparently just because British
manufacturers used their indubitable right as free citizens
to sell their goods to any cash customer who came along.
* * * ■»
A small N.S.W. landowner, who hadn’t sense
enough to go to a bank and get a cheap overdraft,
called on a money-lending solicitor the other day, and
handed over his deeds for, nominally, £lOO. The
solicitor, who professed to be lending his own money,
handed over the following account: —
I’reparing mortgage .. .. £7 10 0
I’rocu ration fee .. .. .. 5 5 0
Registration fee .. .. .. 12 6
1 year’s interest in advance, at 12|p.c. 12 10 0
£25 17 6
Cockie received £74 2s 6d.
* * » *
“ Tip ” : “ Mirumbeck ” (B. 21/6/’O6) sighs dole-
fully because of the decline of the watch-mending trade
since people took to wearing cheap tickers, which they
shy at a dog as soon as they stop going. What established
the popularity of the cheap time-keepers? The practice
of the watch-mender of charging 10s. 6d. for touching a
wheel with an oiled feather to remove a speck of dust
under pretence that all the works required cleaning, or
that the mainspring was broken. lam glad the trade of
the watch tinkerer is not what it used to be.
* * * *
The “brum” jewellery industry, which the
Commerce Act is designed to suppress, has had a long
run in Australia. So long ago as June 21, 1856, an action
was tried in Sydney to recover the value of certain
gewgaws described as “colored fine gold,” which phrase
was said to mean solid gold. By accident it came out
that the goods w ere really “ lead or composition, plated
with gold, so artistically enclosed as to defy detection
except by cutting.” As there was no Conmerce Act in
existence at the time, the luckless buyer lost his action
on a point of law, and had to carry' his wretched collec-
tion of “ brum ” away with him.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwanstonSt?
WEST. AUSTRALIA //C
“ li
3955*397 Hay St Perrh
QUEENSLAND
QueenS. Edward St? Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND %
H 65143 Queen SL Auckland
18-3 LambtonQuay. Wei ling ton
2365233 Highs*Christchurch.'
Princes 5 DowlingS'? Dunedrnj|
t
CORNER
If its from
IStewart Dawsons
x its good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
■ &Js-IwlvW-M vE
All Goods are sold for tIASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
'Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLVSTRATED PRICE LIST.
&/>e STEWART DAWSON advertising' is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish Compare the Prices and
Clddds 5 then you will be fully satisfied.
rnr.\
1W
- p
©
OJJ
9ct. Gold, Amethyst Heart Drop,
Bird and Scroll Brooch, 14s 6d.
Extra Strong’ Beaded Close Curb
Brooch, 14s (id.
“ Dearest ” Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
!Lss 6d.
■m.
Oval Amethyst and 9ct. Gol<i
Brooch, 18s (id-.
Pearl Set Spray and New Moon
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
15ct. Gold Leaf Centre Brooch,
£1 Is.
9ct. Gold Twin Bar BoSe and
Ruby Set Brooch, £l 2s 6d.
Pearl Set Double Heart Brooch,
9ct. Gold, £1 10s.
15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Sham-
rock Brooch, £1 10s.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Ruby
Brooch, £1 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold and Opal Set Scroll
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Bird
Brooch, £1 17s 6d.
15ct. Gold Twin Bar and Pearl
Set Brooch, £2.
Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£2.
Pearl and Sapphire Set 15ct.
Gold Brooch, £2 ss.
Ruby and Diamond Butterfly
Brooch, Silver Settings on Gold,
£3 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, 15s 6d.
Diamond and Ruby Set Fine Gold
Daisy Brooch, £6 6s.
Fine Gold Brooch Set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, Pearl
Centre, £l3 10s.
Oct. Gold Bar Knot and Heart Brooch,
(is 6d.
15'et. Gold Pearl Set or Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendint,
■63 10s.
Oct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Set
Safety Pin, 16s Gd.
lSct. Gold Brooch, set Diamond, Ruby
and Sapphire, 32s 6d.
ma
Oct. Gold, Pearl Set Daisy Brooch, 22s 6d
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set or Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant,
£5 15s.
Oct. Gold, Pearl Set Lyre Brooch, 21s.
m
Fine Pearl and Turquoise and Oct.
Gold New Art Brooch, £llss.
15ct. Gold and Pearl Crescent Brooch,
355.
15ct. Gold and Fine Opal Trefoil or
Shamrock Brooch, £3 ss.
Greenstone and 9ct. Gold Brooch,
17s 6d.
Carved Greenstone and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 14a 6d.
Diamond and Buby Set Oct, Gold
Brooch, 22s 6d,
AhietbySt ahd Pearl SOt 9ct. Gold
Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst Centre 9ct. Gold Bell,
Bar and Chain Brooch', 25s'.
9ct. Gold Fancy Pearl Set Beat
and Bar Brooch, 255.
&ct'. Gold Pearl Set Scroll and
Twin Bar Brooch, very strong-,
27s 6d.
Diamond, Buby and Sapphire Set
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, 255.
Massive 9ct. Gold Twin Bamboo
Bar, Bell, Leaf and Chain Brooch,
27s 6d.
Strong 9ct. Gold Polished Bar
Brooch, Opal Heart Set, 30s.
15et. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise
Brooch, 30s.
9ct. Gold, New Moon, Bird and
Bower Brooch, Set Pearls all over,
£2 15s.
15ct. Gold, 4 Opals in Diamond
Setting, Twin Bar Brooch,
£2 12s 6d.
Fine Pearl Set Scroll Twin Bar
15ct. Gold Brooch, £2 12s 6d.
Pearl Set New Moon and Bobin
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Fine Opal and Diamond Set 15ct.
Gold Scroll Brooch, £l6 10s.
Fine Opal Heart and Lover's Knot
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
“Lily of the Valley" 15ct. Gold,
Pearl and Fine Opal Set Brooch,
£5 10s.
mmm m
jjjjjjjjWßll
rw
m
rQi
mm* ■*?**
he-™
e c


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
NOW OPEN
ADELAIDE GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE RACE, Victoria Park, S. A., Aug. 11... 100,000 at 5 2 each.
rOSEHILL CUP, Rosehill, N.S.W., September 15 ... ••• ••• ••• 50,000 at 5/2 each.
METROPOLITAN STAKES, Randwick, N.S.W., October 1 100,000 at 5/2 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, Flemington, Victoria, November 6 ••• ••• 100,000 each 5/2 and 10/4.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
S SOKetj and 4Cr. on each fOs. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
r T ASM AN IA IST GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on the
and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any PARCELS
DELIN ERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
ss.
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., Sydney.
Booking Fee, 3d. per Parcel.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
h
i
This DIET is recommended
ip place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged*
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
DRUG HABIT
HAVE YOU FAILEI THEOUGH
DRUNK
ENNESS
DON'T DESPAIR.
LIQUOR HABIT
DR. LANGSTON’S VEGETABLE CURE-
A Home Cure which never fails.
It is safe, sure, absolutely certain, and
inexpensive. A few doses produce a won-
derful change. The craving for all
intoxicants will be destroyed, the nerves
become steady, the appetite for food will
return, refreshii g sleep ensues. This cure
will surprise and delight you. May be
GIVEN SECRETLY.
Thousands of Cures; here is one :
Ravemthorpe, W.A., 23-9 04.
Have finished the hilf course, u-hich has
effected ti cute. I hare ho desire for drink ,
in fact, have a repugnance to the very idea
of it. Yours faithfully,
Write for Treatise No. 5. Posted Free.
The Dr. Langston Institute,
12 9a COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
TOBACCO HABIT
Beanie’s Bronchitis Cure.
T3E3CE FA.MOX7S ZEVEIISUEIESID'Sr FOR
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, AND CONSUMPTION,
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or
Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It is most com-
forting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has
never been known to exist where “ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient,
and a Complete Cure is certain.
BE3WA.RB OF COUGHS !
REMEMBER THAT EVERY DISEASE HAS ITS COMMENCEMENT, AND CONSUMPTION IS NO EXCEPTION TO THIS RULE.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong'.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered from
a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my room
for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling some-
what better, 1 got up and tried to transact my business
as usual. But 1 got up too soon, for the very next day I
had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the doctor
told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the
former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and for
four long weeks I was confined to my bed, under the care
of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his medi-
cine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the
hotel (the Cleveland) where I resided told me of a medi-
cine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure—from Victoria, which had
cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in the
chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks
and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second bottle,
my cough had ceased ; but, what is more astonishing, the
pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and, in about a week,
I was able to attend to my duties as usual. —Yours faith-
fully, J. BRAHAM,
Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “ GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. DearSir,—VVe have tothank your bronchitis
cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we
saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and
gave it a trial, with the result above mentioned.—Yours
faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT,
c/o Mr. Harvey, Baker,
Chiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of.
A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite
cured in three doses.—We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO.,
69 Queen-street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING
COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND
ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Cop-
manhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine,
for obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me
cured one man that had a distressing cough for twelve
years. Please find post-office order enclosed for pay-
ment.—Yours thankfully, WILLIAM CANHAM,
Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES
GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your Bronchitis Cure has
relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes
from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this parti-
cular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours very
truly, GEO. S. CALDWELL,
Camberwell, Victoria.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFEC-
TIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles
of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic com-
plaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I
have taken (including those from Drs.), none have proved
so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended
it to many others.—Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER,
Proprietor of The Lilydai.e Express,
Lilydale, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having used your
Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest, I am sending you
this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines and can unhesitatingly say
that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given it
to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishing you
every success.—l am yours truly, J. ERSKINE,
Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CUBED BY HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thank-
fulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had pre-
viously suffered terribly from asthma for about three
years, and had tried everything-, and had advice, but
without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time with-
out moving day or night out of my chair. If I went to
bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand
about three years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles
there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he
took your cure about five years ago, and has never had
the asthma since. I knew this, but it had passed out of
my mind until reading your advertisement in some Tas-
manian papers brought it to my memory. I told my
husband, and he got your cure for me, which I have taken
with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCOMBE,
Mosgiel, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS
A SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your
favor of the 27th instant, in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in
London from your Liverpool Depot. I am sure their
annual bronchial attacks will be greatly relieved, if not
cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My
own experience, and that in connection with my two-
year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I
shall continue to highly recommend it for both old and
young, and I offer you the use of this letter should you
deem it worth the using.—Yours truly,
HERBEET E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral-street,
Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure
in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis cure. Can confidently say it has
saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try
it, —Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON,
223 Chapel-street, Prahran, Victoria.
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER
FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a
small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible,
as I cannot speak above a whisper, owing- to a cold. I
had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she
was seven months old. She had been suffering from
bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old,
and has not had a return of it since. It is a splendid
medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain
yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE,
Violet Town, Victoria.
A SEVEN YEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.
COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis
and asthma, from which I had suffered for upwards of
seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free
from coughs, and frequently the difficulty of breathing
was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to
sit up. I write you this acknowledgment from a sense
of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed.
For a year previous I had been getting very much worse,
and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined
to bed, suffering from a most violent cough, expec-
torating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope
of recovery. The first dose of the medicine gave me
welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued
the treatment, until I became as I am now, quite well.—
Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASE.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREAT
MENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer
from Bronchitis for a number of years, and not being able
to get relief from Doctors, I started taking your Bron-
chitis Cure about two years ago, and have been taking it
on and off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now
feel thoroughly cured, and I can bear testimony to its
worth.—l am yours truly,
W. J. CLARKE,
Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d,; Large Size, 4s, 6d.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, AND BY THE PROPRIETOR,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, GEELONG, VICTORIA
FORWARDED BY POST TO ANY ADDRESS WHEN NOT OBTAINABLE LOCALLY.
(Mice: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney. Tel. 3562.


HACKED TO PIECES.
V
TRADE
Forc
COUCMSI
COLD§||
Crou gjl
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
. OF THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
I SHELDON DRUG C? i
■^iToNimr'
SYDNET N.5.W. 1
■imi'ffla
ĥ
Racked by a hacking cough, to which there
seems no let-up, many unfortunates suffer the
torments of those whom the old laws doomed
to be hacked to pieces. Pains in throat, chest
and lungs, running eyes and nose, a feeling of
tiredness, uneasiness, and depression, are all
symptoms of these distressing, grippish colds,
which attack us about winter time in this
changeable climate. You may try many medi-
cines for these Throat and Lung Troubles,
but in order to obtain a perfect cure, you will
find it necessary in the end to fall back on the
only sure, scientific specific,
D b SHELDONS
NEW
Discovery
FOR
OUGHS
OLDS AND
ONSUMPTiON
A still better way would be to take it at the
first symptoms, and thus save further distress
and suffering. It is truly a peerless remedy.
We guarantee that it will cure you or money
refunded. Price, 1/6 and 3/-.
Read the following letter from Mr. HENRY
MARTIN, Leslie-street, Sailor’s Gully, Eagle-
hawk, Victoria :
Sheldon Drug Company,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l have suffered for years with a nasty
dry cough, which not only annoyed me much
during the day, but became so bad that it was
simply impossible for me to get a decent night’s
rest, and, hearing of your DR. SHELDON’S NEW
DISCOVERY, decided to give it a trial, and now,
after using five bottles, my complaint has com-
pletely vanished; the first few doses gave me
immediate relief, and I now look upon your valu-
able medicine as a necessity in my home. If
these few lines are of any service to your firm,
you have my permission to use them in any way
you think fit. I can unhesitatingly recommend
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY to all suf-
ferers from chest complaints.
Gratefully vours,
'HENRY MARTIN.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG TROUBLES.
It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
patent medicine, or an ordinary cough mixture,
but a scientific discovery that will make sore
lungs well.
To toe obtained everywhere at 1/6 and
3/-, or will be posted upon receipt of
price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 O’CONNELL
STREET, SYDNEY.
V
l
/*>
For
influenza,
Rheumatism,
colas, Coughs,
Chill-on-the-Liver,
wean Chests.
For
Weak Back;*,
Aching Kidneys,
Asthma, Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c.
A Remedy of over 50 years' standing. Prescribed by Physicians and sold by Chpnists in every part of the
civilized world. Guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium, or any poison whatever.
ALLCOCK’S—The Original and only Genuine Porous Plaster.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
A SATURDAY AT SPATS'.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f INHERE was a sort of dress parade on
the top flat at Spats’ every Saturday. On
ordinary days the Beauties came in their
second best, which was changed on the premises
for paste-stiffened skirts and bedraggled blouses,
any old thing being considered good enough to
work in. But on Saturday the pasters and folders
sported their glad rags, forgetting nothing that
would impress their enemies; and in the bitter
rivalry of dress there were no friendships. On
this day the new hat was flashed upon the factory
like a smack in the face, the unexpected frock
shocked the Beauties with its insolent beauty, the
nine-carat brooch or the glittering ring, set pro-
fusely with precious stones quite as good as
diamonds, was displayed for the first time with a
disregard for the feelings of others that was
simply vindictive. Every girl did her utmost on
Saturday, and, excepting in a few special cases,
-always with the fear that her best possible would
be outdone by a special effort on the part of some
more fortunate sister.
On this particular Saturday morning Kitty
■Coudray had no misgivings. She was wearing the
whole of her new summer’s goods for the first
time, and went up the front stairs, so that she
might have to walk the length of the flat to the
dressing-room. Every woman in an astonishing
frock is at heart a stage-manager. Kitty’s entrance
was a great success, her march down the stage a
triumph. She was radiant in blue and white
muslin, and a saucy little black hat with white
lace and feathers. The girls who had gone before
sighed over their little, faded glories, and meekly
abandoned all pretensions for the time being.
“Oh my, what a turn you’ve give me ! ” cried
the clerk, having fallen off his stool in blind
wonder.
Benno’s amazement, if facetious, was flattering,
and Kitty smiled on him very sweetly. The
packer barred her way.
“Break it t’ me gently,” he said in an awed
voice—“have y’ killed yer rich old uncle ’r
•embezzled the fam’ly di’monds?”
Kitty blushingly insisted that it was only a
simple bit of a dress for second best—nothing to
speak of.
“Yer a fair blaze iv glory,” Mills continued.
“Y’ kin do what y’ like with me. I’m done.
I’ll never get over this, I know.” He was walk-
ing round her, humbly inspecting.
“ Yah-h-h,” cried a derisive voice from a distant
board, “stick ’er in the bloomin’ winder, so’s give
ther town er charnce ! ”
Kitty stiffened at once, her nose went up, and
she walked on with an increase of dignity, but
not really displeased. That cry had come from
a stricken soul. It was really a tribute. She
would not have been wholly satisfied had the girls
taken it all quite kindly.
The Sal vation Army lass at the machine began
to sing a plaintive little hymn. The Army
had had a revival in the cheap suburbs lately,
and had been getting in some good Work amongst
the factory hands. There were two or three con-
verts in the room. They joined in the hymn.
It was the protest of the saints against the
vanities of the flesh. Spotty Corbet, the
machinist, was intensely “saved.” She came to
work in shabby regimentals, and spoke a three
minutes grace overa “crib ” of bread and jam that
it took her two minutes to eat. She was a squat,
sallow girl of about 10, sullen and slovenly, and
had a guilty secret. When not observed she oiled
her greasy dark hair with the machine lubricators.
Kitty Coudray had changed and taken her place
at the board, when Billy the Boy charged upstairs
•crimson with information.
“Wipe yer nose ’n’ -pull down yer pinny,
Mills,” gasped the devil, “ here’s her Excellency
makin’ a mornin’ call.”
TJp the stairs came a faint frou-frou. Feathers
nocked his ear. There was no mistaking it. It was
the musical rattle of silk. The packer ventured
to look over the rail. He blew a long, faint
whistle, expressive of profound emotion. He
beckoned to Goudy in the manner of a man bereft
of speech. There was an apprehensive hush, and
the sibilant call of a silk underskirt stole through
the factory. All eyes turned to the stairs.
“You’ve done yer dash,” cried Billy, addressing
the Beauties. “You kin all git orf the earth.
Twentyman’s got you beat.”
“Jimmy Jee!” whispered Mills, “it’s Bland
’Olt’s wicked woman straight from the halls of
-gilded vice, with all her clobber on.”
Feathers and the town traveller stood back
reverently, giving the newcomer a clear stage,
and as Sis Twentyman stepped on to the flat the
silence of the factory broke in a long gasp.
Nothing like this had ever before been seen at
Spats’. The most riotous imagination there had
never dreamed of such magnificence in a mere
“fact’ry ’and.” Sis was profusely clad in pink
silk, billows and billows of it, trimmed with
cream lace, and she wore a great black picture
hat foaming with feathers, and new glazed shoes
with steel buckles. Kitty Coudray, her brush
clutched in her frozen hand, gazed at this over-
whelming spectacle, her eyes wide, her mouth
-gaping, transfixed. It was a form of paralysis,
and she did not recover consciousness for three
minutes.
Sis remained talking with Feathers. It was
his duty to keep a record of late arrivals who
were fined according to the length of their trans-
-gression. Miss Twentyman made a great show
of excusing herself, but her late arrival was
premeditated malice, and Feathers understood
the situation. Sis was not merely completing her
triumph—she was “rubbing it in.”
“Won thirty thousan’quid in Tatt.’s, ’aven’t
yer?” said the packer, affecting the meekness of
the poor and lowly.
“ If you had let us know you were coming we’d
Lad the stair carpet down and the walls decor-
ated,” said the town-traveller.
Excuse yourself, Mister Goudy, ” replied Sis,
■with a ladylike air of hauteur.
“ Who’re v’ ruinin’, Sis?” asked Feathers.
“Not so familiar, Mister Mills, please.” Sis
gathered up her profuse skirt and swept away, and
half-a-dozen of the Beauties, driven from their
usual refuge of seeming indifference by such splen-
dor, forsook their work, and clattered after her,
shrill with admiration. After these went the
anguished foreman, with his feeble but insistent:
“Come, come ! Come, come, there. What’s
•this ? What’s this ?”
The girls buzzed about Sis, deaf to Fuzzy’s
-orders and his threats, and Spotty Corbet drove
her machine fiercely, and piped her hymn of pro-
test- once more.
Mills aired his philosophy of clothes to Goudy.
“Take it from the man under the bed, Scotty,
wimmin’s mostly clothes, an’ ther rest rings an’
-things. Man’s what he drinks; woman's what
she wears. Size up this bunch. On ther ordin’ry
mornin’s in their secon’ best baggin’, they’re sort
o’ subdood an’ moderate perlite, an’ you don’t see
’em buckin’ up, or playin’ ther frivolous ox. Look
at ther difference when they get inter ther rags,
Then they get down to it—they’re cobbers with
ther rats; an’ yer needn’t put much apast ’em.
But watch out fer Satudees when ther latest
season’s goods is out fer the air ; an’ they’re the
real pink, an’ yer must’n touch ’em with er prop
if yer don’t wanter get it cold. Blime, y’d think
Spats’ was er select seminary fer young lydies
iv gentle birth, an’ that ther dorters iv ther aris-
tocracy was here t’ get made fit in French, dancin’,
liaccomplishments, an’ perlite conversation. Mop
up what’s goin’ when Twentyman comes along in
her old stuff.”
When Sis came again, dressed for work, and
carrying her tub of paste, the packer said :
“ S’elp me shicker, Twenty, you was the on’y
pebble. Flemin’ton on Cup Day ! —don’ men-
tion. Ther Mayor’s ball ! —a blessed marine store.
Lovely, y’ was, straight ! ”
“ Gar’n ! le’ go me leg ! ” retorted Miss Twenty-
man, saucily.
“ What’d 1 tell yer ?” said Mills to Goudy.
The Beauties got down to work slowly and re-
luctantly that morning. There was a still later
arrival. Bell Olliver came in quite half-an-hour
behind time, wearing a new blue blouse, a blouse
that would have created some little stir on ordi-
nary occasions, but which was received with abso-
lute indifference, coming after the extravagance
of Kitty and the magnificence of Sis. Bell came
by the front stairs, radiant with expectation,
smiling a self-conscious smile, and blushing
brightly. By the time she reached the packer’s
board the smile had fled, and Bell’s face had
assumed the color of old dough. She turned down
the wing to the dressing-rooms, and as she did not
re-appear in the course of a quarter-of-an-hour, the
foreman went ambling down the flat, full of zeal,
and tripping over his own feet every few yards as
usual, in the agonies preceding an encounter with
a Beauty of Bell’s argumentative power and un-
certain temper.
Fuzzy found Miss Olliver seated behind a stack
of strawboards, wearing her drab working apparel,
her little tub of paste between her feet, weeping
like a wet day.
“ Come, come ! ” he cried, with tremulous valor.
“ Come, come ! Out o’ this ? ”
“Gar’n scratch ! ” retorted the young lady,
drearily.
“What’s this? What’s this? This won’t do,
you know. Get to work, ’r I’ll fine you a shillin’.’)
Miss Olliver jumped up and confronted Fuzzy
suddenly ablaze.
“You tork t’ me !” she screamed, “you, ’r fat
ole Pig’s Whiskers downstairs, ’r any iv yer rats.
Do it! Do it ! Tork t' me, monkey face, ’n’
I’ll”
The foreman recognised the symptoms. He
retreated precipitately, but Miss Olliver’s tub of
paste took him between the shoulders as he fled,
and made his back view absurd for the rest of the
day. Saturday morning was a trying time for
Fuzzy in many ways.
Bell came to her board when it pleased her.
She was an expert paster, and rival firms would
have been glad of her services. Fuzzy had to
rule her and many like her by a system of
judicious submission. For three hours order and
industry prevailed on the flat. Bell was in a fit
of black sulks; Kitty Coudray was sour and
insolent; the other girls had a thoughtful and
depressed air. Sis Twentyman alone was gay.
She was particularly affectionate towards Kitty,
and seemed quite stupidly blind and deaf to Miss
Coudray’s coldness and contempt.
* « * *
Naturally Sis Twentyman was the first in the
dressing-room at knock-off time. Her arrival
there was signalised by a series of shrieks that
stirred the establishment to its lowest depths,
galvanised the factory, and brought the printers
streaming upstairs. Shrieking was not uncom-
mon on the top flat, but never had such poignant
yells pierced its walls. Sis performed like a
woman in mortal agony. Feathers, heading the
rush, discovered her, standing in her petticoats,
holding the pink silk skirt out before her, and
screaming with all her energies in a stupid, blind,
settled way suggestive of madness.
“’Struth, Twenty, what’s bit yer?” gasped
Mills. He shook her as if expecting to re-arrange
a disorganised apparatus. “’Ere, ’ere,” he cried,
“ take a grip on yerself if yer ain’t fair off yer
almond.” But Sis only screamed again, and showed
the pink silk skirt, and now the situation became
comprehensible. The skirt was an utter ruin ;it
was torn this way and that, and the frills and the
lace hung from it in rags.
At this moment Sis Twentyman’s eyes fell upon
Kitty Coudray, in whose face was something like
a light of elation.
“ You ! ” she shrieked. ‘ 1 You—you—you ”
Her passion choked her on the suitable epithet,
and she dashed at Kitty with hooked claws, like a
ravening lioness. But Feathers and the Don
clung to the fury, and averted manslaughter.
The light of elation had fled suddenly from the
eyes of Kitty Coudray. It was succeeded by a
poignant apprehension. She darted into the dress-
ing-room, and the next moment her cries added to
the general confusion. She came forth carrying
her new blue skirt. It was split from waistband
to hem, six or seven times, and was a hopeless
wreck. Kitty glared at Sis in dumb rage for a
moment, and all a woman could possibly feel of
spite and anguish was in her face.
“She did it! ” she cried. “She did it, the
devil ! ” and it took two printers to keep her from
Sis Twentyman. The Salvation girl was singing
“Sound the loud timbrel o’er Egypt’s dark sea,
Jehovah hath triumphed, His people are free.”
Spats himself and other authorities had arrived on
the scene, but their influence was as nothing in the
face of a catastrophe like this. The Beauties
swarmed; their indignation was virtuous but
virulent. They cried aloud for vengeance on the
destroyer. A rush for the dressing-room revealed
the fact that no further damage had been done,
and slowly the factory simmered down. Sis and
Kitty, surrounded by guards, sat apart, and
sorrowed over their tattered garments, soaking
themselves in tears.
It was Feathers suggested the cat : “Ther
Tutsie’s erbout arf ez big ez a barrel,” he said,
“ ’n’ when he gets out after himself in high pressur
hysterics, he fair digs bricks outer ther buildin’.
I’ve seen him kick ther hessian off er bale iv paper
afore the day, ’n’ he ’ad er fit this mornin’. I
’eard him doin’ ’an’ springs ’n’ fizzin’ like er soder
factory back er ther lift. ”
The authorities retired to the depths, and
slowly the girls dressed and drifted down stairs.
Sis and Kitty had come together mutually for-
giving, as sisters in misfortune should be, and
they mingled their tears, pending the conclusion
of a consultation being held in the boss’s office.
Feathers brought the news. The foreman had
gone under cover behind his guillotines, over-
whelmed by the catastrophe, and knowing that
blame, unplaceable elsewhere, invariably fell upon
him.
“It’s rvbuck, girls,” said Feathers. “Yer on
velvet. Ther firm’s willin’ t’ accept responsibility
fer ther actions iv it’s dooly accredited cat, ’n’
pays compensation. Yer on’y ter put in a claim
fer damages ’n’ ther quids is yours.”
Sis and Kitty brightened up wonderfully at
this, but not sufficiently to imply that they had
wholly parted with their grievance.
“Spats has sent fer a ’ansom, si yer to be
wheeled ’ome et ther firm’s expense,” continued
Feathers. Then he cried to Spotty Corbet, the
Salvation girl, whom he had requested to stay,
pending orders, and who was stealing from behind
the bales towards the stairs. “Yer don’t do a
guy jes’ yet, Spot. This is where yer trouble
comes. Back in yer cart. I want ter chat yer.”
The girl came slowly towards them, lowering
under her battered Army bonnet, her sallow face
smeared with tears and dust, her brief, shabby
skirt falling short of its duty. She was an absurd
and pitiful figure. Feathers took her by the
shoulder: '
“Now,” he said, “cough it up. Why’d yer
tear them dresses ? ”
Sis and Kitty sprang to their feet, their eyes
blazed, and they made at Spotty Corbet with
bared, talons. “’Ere, ’ere,” cried the packer,
“keep good. Enough on it.” He put them back,
and addressed Spotty again, “I don't hear y’
talkin’,” he said. “Y’ know yer tore them
skirts, y’ can’t jolly me. Why’d yer do it? ”
Spotty dug a finger in her mouth, and squirmed
for a moment, and then her eyes gleamed and she
stood erect for a fine effort,
“They was offensive in the sight of the Lord ! ”
she said. Then she collapsed again, her finger
went back into her mouth, she began to cry, and
tucking her old skirt out with her knee, she said.
with stupid bitterness, “’N’mine is sichrags!”
“Hum,” said Feathers, philosophically, “I
thought I’d fitted yer. Now do a bunk.”
The packer held the two pasters while Spotty
shuffled to the stairs, and went down, snivelling
all the way. She did not reappear at Spats’.
“Why didn’ yer let me at her?” said Sis,
fiercely. “ I’d'a’scraped her bones.”
“Garn, Twenty, ain’t yer got a bit o’ sav’?
Make a bustle with her, ’n’ ’ave it orl over the
shop she done it, ’n’ ther cat’s bin wrongly
accused, ’n’ how does yer compensation come
in?”
“ Oh-o-o-o ! ” breathed Sis and Kitty in chorus,
very softly,
“ Oh-o-o-o ! ” breathed the packer in mockery,
more softly still.
Feathers was a true diplomat, and had a fine
contempt for accuracy. “’Onesty,” he said, “is
the bust policy.”
EDWARD DYSON.


HAND
AT
S
WINTER
When clouds appear, wise men put on their cloaks 5
When great leaves fall, the winter is at hand ;
When the sun sets, who doth not look for night?—(Richard 111., ii., 3).
Nature never takes us by surprise; she always gives a
clear signal when change or danger is near. A sharp pain or
dull ache in the back is Nature's warning of Kidney Disease.
The sufferer from Kidney Disease is short-tempered and
irritable, nervous and despondent —his back gives him no
peace, day and night, the least change of the weather tells on
him, he can’t stoop, can’t walk far. Women with Kidney
Trouble are just the same ; they imagine themselves to be
suffering from all kinds of “women’s complaints.” They
have no patience with the little ones, are easily annoyed, and
always tired. During the winter months you are more likely
to get colds. And colds very often affect the Kidneys ; there-
fore, at the first sign of backache, or any other symptom of
kidney derangement, take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, the
special kidney and bladder medicine for men and women.
Bead the following experience of d Sydney woman: —
WHEN COLD WEATHER SET IN THE PAIN WAS DREADFUL.
Backache Caused by a Heavy Cold. Cured to Stay Cured.
Mrs. Kate Helmka, 27 Ada-street, Ultimo, this city, says:—“ About thirteen years ago I
contracted a cold, which flew to the small of my back, and seemed to affect my kidneys. My
back was real lame, and when cold weather set in the pain used to be dreadful. I heard about
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and obtained a supply. Relief came almost immediately I
started to use them, and now my cure is perfect. lam pleased to recommend these pills to all
kidney sufferers.”
The above statement was made some time ago. Mrs. Helmka now states: Although it
is a year since I recommended Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I still have the same good opinion
of this medicine. It is a splendid remedy for weak and aching backs and disordered kidneys.
I’ve had no return of my trouble.”
“Of all the ways l a cold ’ affects the system , 110 way is so
dangerous as a cold on the kidneys."
o
c
i
n
i
(&
a
n
V
.4
1
“Every Picture Tells
a Story.”
DOAN’S,
REMEMBER
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PHIS
2s 9d per Box ,
At all Chemists and
Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co,
76 Pitt St., Sydney
The Pioneer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE stands beside the wind-swept verge,
The Flint Age just begun,
He sees the gray, incoming surge
Grow red beneath the sun ;
The primal seas befoie him hold
What danger and what fear,
This builder of the aeons old,
This Shipwright Pioneer ?
His knotted hands, with stone and fire
In cloud and shine have wrought
Through days of failure and desire
The rude inventor’s thought—
A tattoed chief, long ages sunk
In far, forgotten night,
Who chose the bole and felled the trunk
And paced its length aright.
Now auroch’s tooth and mammoth tusk,
And greenstone axe have done
Slow service in the falling dusk ;
And with the lifted sun
The sweat of toil, uncouth, sublime,
Has drenched his bare limbs o’er —
This workman in the dawn of Time,
This Titan by the shore.
A Fulton in a wolf-skin dress,
Whose fame no legends tell,
Through travail vast and hourly stress
He held his purpose well.
Bull-chested, savage, heavy-limbed,
Barbaric, past, remote,
His fame in fitting voice is hymned
From ev’ry storm wind’s throat.
The twin screw sings his work divine
Across a peopled sea ;
From Greenland to the circling line
Who worthier than he ?
The turbine’s shaft shall call his deed
Above the charted floors,
And, city-sown, they’ll grant him meed
Of praise, the thousand shores.
Homeric in the Dawn he stands ;
Wild triumph lights his face ;
The Key of Distance in his hands—
An Overlord of Space.
Eyes shaded by a palm of might,
Peering the level plain—
Out lrom the World’s Primaeval Night
He glares, and sinks again !
Builder was he ere Asia knew
Aught of Accadian tents ;
Builder was he ere Egypt grew
Skilled in the rudiments.
Master of Craft ere Rome and Tyre
Sprang from their swamp and fen.
Shaping with flint and bone and fir
The future sailor-men.
A gaunt Columbus in the weird,
Lost infancy of Man,
For him no sculptured stone was reared
By tutored sept or clan.
Painter and sculptor, caid and sage
Owe him neglected praise—
Lord of the Neolithic Age
And Captain of the Ways.
Burnt is his spark ; gone down, long sped
Into unheeded night ;
Dust are his hands, but still men tread
The vintage of their might.
Haply some student ship-yard looms,
Potent with force accrued,
And loud Invention clangs and booms
Where lay his dug-out rude.
Haply the strong cranes lift and bear
Masses of structure shaped
Hard by the salted margins, where
He hewed, and chipped, and scraped ;
Boiler and bulkhead, beam and mast,
Crank and propeller blade,
Swung to their place appointed fast,
All for the good of Trade,
Surely his spirit somewhere hears,
Out in the vastness wide,
Echoes faint of the Newer Years,
Borne o’er the roaring tide.
Surely the white electric gleam
Cleaving the darkness, yet
Lights with its slow, revolving beam,
A strange sea silhouette.
Framed by a night cloud drooping low,
Dark and obscurely dim,
Paddling his frail boat hard and slow,
Out at the dark sea rim—
Once in a hundred years perchance
A watcher by the sea,
One fleeting second’s space may glance
This ancient Mystery.
Bull-chested, bared to combat new,
Soaked with the driving spray.
Muscle and sinew, bone and thew
Fighting their onward way;
Holding the sure coast close inboard,
Hugging the solid shore—
Passeth the great Sea’s Primal Lord
Into the Nevermore.
Father of Builders—as he fades
Over the tither side,
A liner huge with whirling blades
Cleaves outward in her pride !
Father of Sailors—as his ghost
Mists at the rising moon,
Comes the sound of “ Washington Post ”
Played in her grand saloon !
N.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
“ F.” : In all early colonial documents we
find what we now call “ creek ” designated by the
English term “rivulet.” Can anyone explain
how the “rivulet” merged into the American
“creek,” and when ?
Kwong Toe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LITTLE Kwong Toe came aboard the
Arrawatta, at Brisbane, accompanied by
an old Chinese doctor named On Yik.
Kwong was 12 years old ; he was on his way to
Townsville. There were no other Chinese aboard,
and the doctor asked me if I would keep in touch
with his pleasant-eyed little friend during the
trip North. Before taking his leave, On Yik
informed me that Kwong was the son and heir of
a world-famous mandarin of the hirst and Last
Button.
Looking at the young Celestial’s feminine com-
plexion, his shapely feet and ladylike hands, I
began to understand what people meant when
they spoke of the high caste Manchu.
The Duke of York’s baggage-room on board the
Ophir was a rag-shop compared with little
Kwong’s. His cabin looked as though manager
Williamson had piled the costumes of his last
nine operas around the walls. The luggage of a
European gentleman is always a blot and an
eyesore on shipboard—this includes his shoehorns
bootjacks, corsets and necktie-mounted braces.
The high-born Celestial’s wardrobe is an artistic
joy in 32 colors.
After his morning bath, little Kwong Toe
wrapped himself in two furlongs of flesh-white
silk. An hour was spent in manicuring his pink
toes and finger nails. Then he put on a coat of
elephant-colored pongee, clasped by a gold belt
and decorated with a silver dwarf and peacock.
Donning my Birmingham-made shooting jacket
and striped pants, I would accompany Kwong Toe,
aged 12, on his morning promenade along the
deck. Some ladies, belonging to the Government
House party, asked him to sit near them one day.
For a moment the fury of a little devil illumined
his eyes. Then he ran below and flung himself
weeping on his bed. He begged me to protect
him, in future, from similar insults.
If those ladies had belonged to his father’s
household, it is probable that an auctioneer or
executioner would have dealt with them immedi-
ately after tea.
Few Australians understand how Chinese chil-
dren amuse themselves. The old men fly kites;
the brats are supposed to do the hard thinking.
Kwong had about lewt. of toys. There were
duck-footed Mongolian birds that flew about the
cabin and pecked at the scattered rice. There
were bronze beetles which scuttled across the floor
and drove about 400 real cockroaches out of the
cabin for the rest of the voyage. The boss toy
was a brass volcano that emitted sparks and smoke
whenever he spoke to it. He showed me a model
earthquake scene among temples and pagodas. A
Chinese magician had made it for him. There
were rivers of glass and mountains of terra-cotta,
and when Kwong breathed the dreadful key
word, the mountains rent themselves asunder and
the temples broke in halves and ran down the
glass rivers. Kwong would then touch a single
block and the desolation and chaos would piece
itself together.
He kept the earthquake in a large wooden box..
Sometimes in the still hours of night it would
start like an alarm-clock and rattle the fittings
from the cabin walls. Kwong in his silk night-
shirt.would sit up in his bunk and address it in
violent Chinese ; only threats of the severest kind
could make it stop.
One day he exhibited a fight between two metal
dragons. They lived in brass pagodas facing one
another. One of them, Mik Mik, would snort
and wipe the atmosphere with his tail, and ask
the other dragon, Po Po, to come and help clean
the cabin floor. Po Po was a modest little dragon,
who had to fight against his will. I observed a
tendency on the part of Mik Mik to knock Po
Po’s head when he wasn’t looking. The fight
lasted about ten minutes. Mik Mik always won.
Kwong said they were not wound up. I ex-
amined Mik Mik carefully, and he bit my finger.
I left Kwong Toe at Townsville, after seeing
him safely housed with his relatives. Then I
started for the Towers. For three months I
hugged financial blizzards with both arms, and
when I retm ned to Townsville there was a lone-
some, feeling about my pockets, a desire in me to
put out to sea on a raft and burgle a man-o’ war.
Townsville is the place where the unemployed
die of thirst. ICis the place where the shipping
clerk works far hi to the hot midnight with a fear
in his heart that another fellow will swoop upon
his billet. A firm with a dawn-till-midnight billet
to spare offered it to me at 255. per week. I
didn’t refuse the job. I simply introduced the
manager to a Chow.
Sitting with the unemployed on Bobbie Towns’
bridge, one day, a moon-eyed Chinaman touched
my sleeve and asked me to follow him. At that
moment I would have followed a cannibal chief
to the bitter end. The Chinaman escorted me
into a large store, where another Chinaman, with
the face of a grindstone, pointed to an inner
room. Therein sat little Kwong Toe on a pile of
cushions.
Before leaving I was taken aside by the grind-
stone Chow. “ You welly hard-up, I see.
Kwong Toe ask me to lend you his cheque. Five,
ten, twenty pons; how much you want?” said
the Grindstone. His face was perfectly immov-
able ; his eyes were flint, his skin was harder than
the front of a pyramid. I wondered how much
pull little Kwong possessed to wring such an
arrangement from him.
“ Make it a tenner,” I said.
Two years later I sent the cash to Towns-
ville, but the Grindstone replied stating that
Kwong had gone back to Pekin. The money was
returned.
It seemed that the slight service rendered was
not to be soon forgotten. A month or so after-
wards I received a letter bearing the Hong Kong
post mark. After mentioning that his family
were in good health, Kwong begged me, as a mark
of honor, to accept the love of his sisters, Moo
Ying and Sisa Foo, aged four and six. He pro-
mised, at an early date, to send me a brass volcano
and the earthquake.
When the wind of adversity blows around the
office on pay-day, it is comforting to know that
one’s name is held in supreme veneration in cer-
tain parts of China.
Up to date the earthquake hasn’t arrived.
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


Impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer's Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and n-
riches the blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store-
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story:
y>\
“In the year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
worse than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
iered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER’S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name—AYER’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
the one remedy that
never fails when
PRESCRIBED. FULL, HONEST
VALUE FOR THE SUFFERERS’
HONEY.
WE want you to wear Dr. McLaughlin's Electric Belt because it is
honest, because it will cure you if you are curable, and remember
tlmre s Life, there’s Hope.” It has restored thousands
o eak Men to their Full Vigor of Manhood after the failure of all other
remedies. It is the only body Belt ever made that gives a powerful
current for hours at a time. It never fails in such cases as Weakness in
Men, Varicocele, Nervous Disorders, Weak or Aching Back, Sciatica,
Kheumatism, Lumbago, Insomnia, Stomach, Liver, or Bladder Troubles.
W first satisfy yourself.
We invite you particularly to satisfy yourself as to its value as a
remedy. To do this, write to us for the names of as many cured patients
in your vicinity as you care to write to or call on. We have grateful
cured patients in every . . . Send for our handsome
Free Book, which describes our wonderful remedy in detail; investigate
our assertions, and you will hesitate no longer. Give our Belt a trial and
you will never regret it.
I™ Du. McLaughlin Co. ,NC,P ' ENT LOCOMOTOR A TAXI At
Dear Sir,-When I first got ymir Belt I became dissatisfied after using- it a few times Probably I
however 1 did me no ffOod° so7dete™ined I obtai . ned B °me medicine and left the Belt off. The medicine,
however, didme no good, so I de *® n ? l "ed to agam adopt the Belt, and I have always been glad since.
offer sufferers will be “
FREE
Sign your name to the Coupon opposite and
send it to us. It is worth pounds to you.
We will in return send you postage free
our handsomely Illustrated Book
which describes our Belt. We will
Send the Coupon to-day. Our
diagnose your case Free of Charge. _ vuuuu,, 10 -aay. u
ror raBe ° 6nt 10 W “ k "“* »<*
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
WOW. MARKET ST.,
SYDNEY.
90 William Street, Perth
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWF9RS
o v
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
S
F°S®! hons a 2,d Nervous Disorders, such as Wind and Pain in the Stomach, Sick Headaches
G^ d w CS !’ fulness and S "'. ellin » after Meals, Dizziness and Drowsiness, Cold Chills, Flush-
f ,1 cj| ea ’ k°ss of Appetite Shortness of I»reath, Cosdveness, Blotches on the Skin, Dis-
WITT PTVff Nervous and Trembnng Sensations. &c. THE FIRST DOSE
WILL GTVE RELIEF IN TWENTY MINUTES. This is no Action. Every sufferer is
GUINEA A. e BOX " 0116 B ° X ° f these PillS ’ and ° tey wiU he acknowle<l « ed t 0 be “ WORTH A
BEECHAMS PILLS, taken as directed, w cuickly restore females to complete health,
promptly remove any obstruction or irregularity of toe system. For a
They
Weak Stomach, Impaired Digestion Disordered Liver,
they act like magic a few doses will work wonders upon the Vital Organs; Strengthening the
Muscular System ; restoring the long-lost Complexion ; bringing back the keen edge of appetite, and
arousing with the Rosebud ok Health the Whole Physical Enkhgy of the human frame. These
are facts admitted by thousands, in all classes of society, and one of the best guarantees to the
IN ervous and Debilitated is that Beeekani’s Pills have the Laratst Sale of any Patent Medieine in
the world. Full emotions with each Box,
prepared ONLY BY
IEOMAS . 'EECEAM, St. Eelens, Lancashire, ENGLAND
Sold Every where, in Boxes, Is lid, ami *Js !>d each.
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Are recommended by doctors with confi-
dence as one of the valuable results of
medical science, a,jnd the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure but pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/14 and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PßOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength,
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
.Street, Sydney.
BLOOD POISON.
FOR MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secondary or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dols. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have aches
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures, ioo-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MASONIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth,
street, Sydney.
DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE'S
f HLOROPyN E
Caution- —Oenuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COUGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIAKRBCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor— .
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its Lest recommendation.”
ħ
'-DEAF
'ufferers from Deafness or He»._ Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
fho'iW wrlte to The L. B. VEBNON CO.
10 HUVPEB «T., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet desc ibing an entirely new self-
applied method which we will send poet
free on mentioning this paper. *
NERVOUSNESS
liOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain everv
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURB, will
forward the same, tree o£ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A, MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
h
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOP'
|PITAL PHYSICIAN and
„ PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they mav CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGfcNCY, Castiereagh St.,
SYIDIsriEY-
leaF
ĥ
131 R.. M.D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of Hen and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
<SE~
men
WOMEN
SLILTING PRACTICE In the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
|Z?pn All 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
1 Ict LU rlll WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6 ; or, if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s.
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pages Crown
Bvo., over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illus-
trations, with beautifully Four-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


Tn —-
Tennis Players and Clubs,
Slazenger’s Covered 1908
Championship Tennis Balls
14s. per dozen.
Postage in N.S.W. Is. extra.
Perdriau Rubber Co.^
270 George St., Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
SYDNEY
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
Rabbit Skins, Marsupials, Hides, Tallow, Sheepskins and Woo! ~3Pf send to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO-, LTD., SYDNEY
HIGHEST VALUES, SPEEDY RETURNS. E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
’S
ħ
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes.
Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaide.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Jtock Dnll for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181b*. Operated by corn tressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS: Ilf O I lEM BID §Eg? C 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
~ W. & J. LfclYirtiltlill, And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Every Pump Guaranteed.
“There is No Better Pump
than the KNOWLES. ”
KNOWLES PUMPS for every kind of service
kept in stock. SINGLE and DUPLEX, VERTICAL
and HORIZONTAL.
Boiler Feed or Pressure Pumps, Double Acting Plunger Pumps,
Tank or Light Service Pumps, Vertical Sinking Pumps,
Air Pumps, Circulating Pumps, etc.
PARKE & LACY CO., *■«.
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
Melbourne Selling Agents: Bevan and Edwards Propy., Ltd., Latrobe Street.
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand .
aa anna bop
ilSllUlLilUlliPiM
lllllllllllliillllllllllllll
Fred Metiers & Co.
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S, Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Bundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
....
RANGES
and STOVES
Manufacturers in N.S, Wales,
South Australia and West
Australia.
All influential storekeepers act as
our agents and stock our Stoves.
HEAD OFFICES:
558 George St., Sydney.
142 Bundle St., Adelaide.
William St., Perth.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘ PAM PA
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
h
Sol
by
all first
claw stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 216
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYUKTEY.
The Victor in All
Recent Slime Saving
Competitions.
SIMPLE. DURABLE.
CAPACITY—I 2 Tons in 24 Hours.
POWER REQUIRED—f-Horse.
»
Adjustable Dressing:
Surface to suit all
Ore Gravities.
' J. 3
:•
11 g|
a«
W
The Sperry Siimer.
The Manager, Bombay
Syndicate Ltd., Coster-
field, Victoria, says:
“The Sperry Slimer is
a great success with our
Slimes, it saves splendid
concentrates, 63 per cent.
antimony and 2oz. j gold
per ton.” [
Sole Licensees
and
Manufacturers s
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney & Melbourne
