

sdf
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
sdf
-
R. G. WATKINS «» CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY NEW AMD SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
gs
HOBAH.T,
Radley s Orient jjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Ruston, Proctor
and Co.’s
Portable ENGINES
Embody Man y
Valuable
Improvements
Patent Steam Stay
High Steam Pressure Improved Expansion Eccentric for economising steal
tam Stay preventing vibration, and taking up the strain. Less Joints than on other ma era
en:
gme».
Por Illustrated laists & Particulars
apply to SOLE AGENTS-
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO.. 7 Bent St., Sydney, h.s.w.
\
" Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
fdg
CHUBB'S
STRONG ROOM
sdf
HafimaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
Now South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jp. a. 0188, Manager.
Active Age to andOanvassers Wanted. “WE
ail. tdaM&ut) u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
BENSDORPS
1
gsd
ft the Queen of Jill Cocoas
I ro, <.
|Arom^Strei\gtKtrPurit)C
ASK
FOR
STANDARD PALE ALE
UNRIVALLLED IN QUALITY - PT IN' BOTTLER
7 77fr7~7 ’
r • :
. - . J 7, ■' .
.
14
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA.
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GOJ.I.IIM & CO., A
!nts.
The Bulletin
f01.27.— N0. 1391.]
[Thursday, October 11, 1906.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE LATEST
BOOKS AT
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
Dutch, Food and Digestion in Health and Disease, 2s 6d,
post 4d.
Tyndall, Glaciers of the Alps, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Tyndall, Hours of Exercise in the Alps, 3s 6d, posted.
Ethel Turner, Mist of the Mountains, 2s 6d, post 6d.
Ransom, Chairman and Debaters’Handbook, Js 6d posted.
Scott, Romance of Polar Exploration, 6s, post 6d.
Chesterton, Charles Dickens, 9s, post Bd.
Day, Metal Work, “ Pearson’s Handbooks,” Is, post 3d.
MR. PRATT, a novel by JOSEPH C. LINCOLN, author of “ Cap’n Eri,” “ Partners of the Tide,”
illustrated, cloth 3« 6d, post 6d.
71 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and London.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and all Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption.
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
m
VUJDSO/V
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
A.SK. FOR. HUDSON’S Take no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6.
May be taken daily by old and young. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the Sole
Manufacturer, C. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/8 in stamps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States/ New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. [l.
THE RED PAGE.
CENTRAL AUSTRALIA
JW. GREGORY, recently a professor
at Melb. University, has written The
* Dead Heart of Australia (Lond.,
John Murray ; 16s. net) —a capital
book and valuable. Primarily he tells the
story of a journey around Lake Eyre in
1901-2, but he gives in addition a geological
history of the lake and a narrative of pre-
vious explorations, as well as some notice of
aboriginal tribes and a learned discussion of
artesian wells. In addition to its merits of
information the book is brightly written :
the account of aboriginal group-marriages,
for example, makes the chief features of a
difficult subject unusually comprehensible.
Original illustrations and maps increase the
worth of the book.
J*
• Prof. Gregory is not so scientific that he
forgets to be human ; and he combats the
mistaken views that the heat in Central Aus-
tralia is appalling, and that our aborigines
are “the lowest race on earth.” He spells
“ aboriginee ” —and apparently thinks this
word of common usage, though one does not
remember seeing it employed with authority
before. Of Hergott Springs, 440 miles from
Adelaide, he says :
The people of Hergott are proud of their heat.
“ The hottest place in Australia” is asserted by
the more modest of them. “ The hottest place on
earth,” say the others; while I heard it hinted
that not even down below is there any heat as
unbearable as that experienced when, in mid-
summer, a north wind drives a fog of hot,
desiccating dust across the Hergott plain. But
the residents enjoy the heat, and it is of a type
where protection from the sun is needed for
comfort rather than for security.
* Yet Gregory adds that :
In spite of heat, the people looked extremely
well. The children were hardier and less anaemic
than those at Adelaide. Dr. Kennedy assured
me that there is no illness in the district, and that
his post would be a sinecure were it not for
ophthalmia and other ailments of the eyes. To
my surprise, we found the men working in the
open air at severe manual labour, without adopt-
ing any precautions or special clothes. Simple
slouch felt or thin straw hats are generally worn,
and our cook* defied the sun in a black hard felt
“bowler”; yet, notwithstanding the neglect of
ordinary tropical precautions, everyone looked in
the best of health. The men are bronzed and
tanned ; but one is glad to miss the sallow com-
plexions and wan faces that Europeans show in
tropical African coast towns.
Whence follow some deductions on the
question of tropical labour :
The tolerance of heat shown in this part of
Australia certainly supports Sambon’s theory in
regard to acclimatisation. Sam bon holds that
there is nothing to prevent Europeans living and
working, as well as any black race, in the hottest
of tropical localities. He maintains that the
supposed unsuitability of the tropics for Euro-
pean settlement is due to disease and not to
climate, and that as the special tropical diseases
are due to germs, they may be cured or prevented
when the life-histories of the germs are known.
The sight of white men engaged in severe
manual labour, under tlie midday sun in the hot
climate of the Lake Eyre depression, certainly
suggested that a “White Australia” is no im-
possible ideal for even the hottest regions of the
centre.
So far from suffering from the trip, which,
starting from Hergott on tlie Central Aus-
tralian railway, meandered on camel-back
round Lake Eyre, and reached Warrina on
the same line, most of the party, with a
liberal food allowance, grew fatter; The
journey was made with aboriginal guides,
and no alcohol was taken, but the party
drank tea by the quart. “We all agreed
that tea was the one article that was abso-
lutely necessary to our comfort.”
Jt
Of the aboriginals Prof. Gregory can
scarcely speak too highly. The superstition
of degradation finds no support in him. He
refers to the repetition of the original
blunder as “ wild misrepresentation.”
The popular conception of the mental and moral
characters of tlie Australian aborigines is as
erroneous as the caricature of their personal
appearance. The extreme kindliness of the
people, especially to the old, is one of their most
striking characteristics. Instead of being cruel
and wholly devoid of affection, they show a fond-
ness for their children, and a generous considera-
tion for the old and infirm members of their elan
unusual among primitive people. . . .
Instead of being able to count only up to five,
as is often asserted, the aborigines are trusted to
count big mobs of sheep, and do the work as
accurately as a European.
When Prof. Gregory entered the Lake
Eyre region he shared the popular prejudice :
As the Dieri tribe, which lives around the
mission station at Kilalpaninna, is often taken as
the type of the most primitive group of the abo-
rigines, I expected to find them intellectually
much lower than the negro, and in a condition of
worse savagery than the pygmies of Equatorial
Africa.
But as matter of fact :
Instead of finding them degraded, lazy, selfish,
savage, they were courteous and intelligent/gene-
rous even to the point of imprudence, and pheno-
menally honest; while in the field they proved
to be born naturalists and superb bushmen. Of
course there are exceptions. Though industrious
over work that interested them, their most common
fault is laziness ; and their most irritating charac-
teristic is that their notion of truth, though well
above the average of coloured peoples, is not up to
that exceptionally high standard which is one of
the special virtues of the Teutonic race. Never-
theless, before our stay at Kilalpaninna had come
to an end, we all shared the same feeling, that of
all the quaint delusions respecting Australia, the
quaintest is that which represents its aborigines
as the most useless and untrainable of savages.
As to artesian wells, Prof. Gregory, after
a careful examination of evidence, says :
These Central Australian wells may he called
“artesian,” in consequence of the general exten-
sion of that term to any flowing wells. But the
view that the ascent of the water in them is due
to the pressure of water in the Queensland hills,
does not seem to me to be any longer tenable.
The responsibility for this view rests with the
meteorologists. It was originally based on a 75
per cent, under-estimate of the discharge of the
Darling River, a 300 per cent, over-estimate of
the discharge of the Murray, and a large exag-
geration of the estimated proportion of the rain,
discharged by rivers in general.
He concludes that the wells are not truly
artesian.
That the wells are discharging past accumula-
tions of water is rendered more than ever proba-
ble, by the discovery that there is no outlet
from the deep, central basin of the Lake Eyre
country to the south, to the south-west, or to the
north. The fact that the main artesian basin has
no regular outlet, and is enclosed by a rim which
—so far as we know —is complete to the west and
south, and has only a narrow, shallow lip to the
north—and perhaps another to the east —shows
that the deep, central waters are old accumula-
tions. Whether the wells are flowing under the
pressure of far-distant water, or under the local
pressure of the overlying rocks and of their own
dissolved gases, does not affect this question.
They are the modern, artificial outlets from a vast
reservoir, which is almost entirely closed, and the
waters discharged from it must have collected
during the course of centuries, and probably of
past millenniums.
Those politicians who—in 1891 and in later
years—have proposed to stop the unnecessary
waste of these waters, adopted a sound and safe
view. Water is the raw material of which Cen-
tral Australia is in most urgent need; Nature has
stored up a vast, but probably a limited, supply in
a safe, underground reservoir. That water, if
prudently used, would probably last till Central
Australia were so well occupied that it could
afford to provide a more costly supply. But to
allow these deep-well waters, in obedience to a
mistaken analogy as to their origin, to run heed-
lessly to waste, is a policy of which a later genera-
tion of Australians may have bitter cause for
complaint.
Prof. Gregory’s final chapter deals with
the practicability and advisability of flooding
Lake Eyre from the sea. He concludes that
it is practicable, but doubtfully advisable.
The waters of Lake Eyre could not be main-
tained by a channel carrying less than 7,U0U,0U0.000
gallons a day.
Mr. A. S. Kenyon, of the Victorian Water-
Supply Department, has kindly calculated for me
the size of the channel which, with a fall of 11-5
inch to the mile, would be required to make up
the loss by evaporation, at for an area
of 20)0 square miles. If the channel were ten
feet deep, it would have to be 1000 feet wide. A
channel of this size Would be a very costly affair,
especially as the cuttings would have to be very
deep as well as long. The Lake Eyre basin is
closed on the south by a ridge of hills, to the
north of Lake Torrens. There is one low gap on
the divide, at the height of 175 feet above sea-
level. The shore of Lake Torrens itse.f is 111
feet above sea-level, and its bed is bat little below
this. Hence the channel would have to be cut to
a depth of 100 feet for 200 miles, and in one place
to 200 feet.
There is no insuperable, physical difficulty in
such a work. Its practicability is a simple matter
of expense. The cost of a 200-mile canal is heavy,
even under the most favourable circumstances,"
and for a narrow channel. Mr. J. W. Jones
estimated that a channel only fifty feet wide at
the bottom, with sloping sides, and cut at the
price of three shillings per yard, would cost over
£37,000,0 0. No estimate is possible for a canal
large enough to be efficient; for a work on such
a scale would disturb all existing prices, and
revolutionise tlie industrial and political conditions
of the Htate. But if a canal twenty times as large
cost twenty times as much, then, on Mr. Jones’s
estimate, the scheme would mean an expenditure
of £740,000.000. At three per cent, interest—and
it is doubtful whether even the British investor
would lend money for this scheme at that rate—
it won Id involve an annual interest charge of
£22,200,000. There would, moreover, be a heavy
cost for maintenance . ..
The effects of this change would be decidedly
beneficial to the country, and no doubt lead to the
increased fertility of the shores of Lake Eyre.
But how far this influence would reach, it is im-
possible to calculate, or even to guess approxi-
mately. There would be many subsidiary effects,
some of which would increase, and some lessen,
the good that would be done by the climatic
change. But it would certainly not be safe to
rely on a fundamental change of climate, or on a
great improvement, except close to the lake.
The existence of small, arid islands in the
Indian Ocean, the barren shores of Southern
Morocco, and the desert on the coast of Southern
Peru, show that the mere proximity of even
an ocean does not ensure a moist climate. The
flooding of Lake Eyre might do as little good to
Central Australia as the Dead Sea to its barren
basin. The new vegetation would help to regu-
late the amount of moisture in the atmosphere,
tor it would give out most on dry days, and
absorb most on wet ones. It would tend to keep
the conditions nioister and indirectly increase the
rainfall. The change in vegetation would at any
rate secure a more effective use of the rain that
falls. But the most that could safely be expected
would be an improvement of the geographical
conditions for some miles around the lake,
obtained at a price which might pay, if the land
were stocked with the sheep that grew a golden
fleece.
Prof. Gregory’s book is well worth reading
in entirety.
MISCELLANEA
Here some further wisdom from Witt’s
Life in the Law. Of an eminent lawyer and
judge he says :
The least competent judge before whom it has
been my lot to practise was Sir James 1 itzjames
Stephen. Everyone recognises that with a pen m
his hand he was admirable, butbe ' va f not in ..
least degree fit to lie a judge. He had no practice
at the Bar, and it is of course a dangerous experi-
ment to put on the Bench a man who has not had
a fair share of forensic experience. Perhaps, hovv-
ever, he would have done better if lie had given to
his work his undivided attention. judge has
a right to devote to the Bench a share only of his
time and energy. The country has a claim not
only to his best but to all his best, Sir James was
a literary man by taste, by capacity, mid by
association, and as far as I could make out he rose
earlv, knocked off some magazine work, and then
did a most foolish thing, that is, he took a big
walk He arrived at court a tired man. And
this sort of life told its own tale only too plainly
during the later years of his judicial career. The
impairment of nervous energy is just as fatal to
the success of a judge as to the success of a race-
horse. I always felt very sorry for Sir James, for
we were capital friends, and he was to me, and to
all of us, as good and patient and courteous as a
man could be. Whatever may be thought of the
Maybrick case, I suppose that no one doubts that
Sir James was not fit to try it.
Of debtors and creditors :
The old Romans had some sense. They said to
the creditor : “Here, take this debtor and set
him to work until he has earned enough to pay
you off.” The English people said : “Put him in
prison, and keep him there, so will he be for ever
unable to pay you, but you will have the delight
of knowing that he is there for life.”
This practice shocked mankind, and so Parlia-
ment said : “Let him give up all he has, divide it
among his creditors, and let him go out of gaol,”
and it further said : “ If he does give up all he
has, release him from his debts.” Now I have
never been able to make out why one man in a
street should go free of his debts while his neigh-
bour pays up in full. What a delightful incentive
to dishonesty. Nor do I understand why a credi-
tor should, under any circumstances, be able to
put his debtor into prison. One hundred years
hence historians will justly speak of imprison-
ment for debt as a “relic of barbarism.”
Even cabmen have a fair idea of the farcical
character of insolvency proceedings. One of these
worthy men had driven the bankrupt a distance
of one mile seven furlongs and a half, and had
received at the door of the court what is known as
a “hard shilling.” “Well,” said the cabman,
“ I do hope that you will get yotir discharge ; they
cannot say that extravagance has done it.”
No doubt the idea of abolishing bankruptcy law
and all its works would be terrible to a host of
people. But if I were a creditor I should like to
be able, if I chose, to get a judgment against my
debtor, and have execution and the fruits of it.
If l got there first 1 should be paid. If someone
managed to be there before me he would be paid.
Anyhow, someone would be paid, which to my
mind is better than no one being paid. But I
suppose too many worthy folk have a “ vested
interest ” in the present state of things to permit
of such a revolution as would be effected if the
rule was “first come first served,” and no absolu-
tion from debt except payment.
• ■< .
According to the answers given to Briner,
M. in N.S.W. Assembly, N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Dept, has been guilty of particularly shabby
conduct In the matter of R. Kaleski. Kaleski is
that rare combination, a practical bushman with
scientific brains. He has a knack of writing as
well, and has contributed occasionally to Sydney
papers, including The Bulletin. He wrote for
N. Agricultural Gazette a series of articles
under the beading of “ The Settler’s Guide,” full
of uncommon lore regarding tools, materials, and
methods, and unquestionably containing some of
the most useful matter ever printed in The Cuzctte.
Kaleski is only a struggling selector, and N.S.W.
Agricultural Dept, cheerfully took his time, his
knowledge, and his experience ; employed him to
instruct the highly-salaried designer (Qrosse) who
illustrated the articles; reprinted the matter
(occupying over fifty pages in pamphlet form) ;
and refuses to give him a cent of payment. “It
is not considered that Mr. Kaleski is entitled to
any recompense,” said Minister Moore. The
Dept, apparently considers itself licensed to sweat
poor men’s brains for nothing.
“ Nor ley ” writes :
In The Magazine of Art for June, 1885, Alice Meynell
prints verses somewhat, similar to Wilfred Campbell’s
“ The Mother.” Some stanzas :
Tiik Buried Mother.
Out by the walls of a Danish town
The "raves stood cold as the night came down.
The Angelas prayer had long been said,
And the bell tolled out the psalm for the dead..,
But a mother, buried for half a year,
Woke with a crying in her ear...
She left the cold graves under the walls,
And took the street to her husband’s halls.
She felt her long-dead bosom ache,
For her seven children were all awake ;
And none had broken them bread that night,
Or poured them beer, or trimmed a light.. . .
Two strove for an empty cup, and one
Was crying—that was her youngest son.
She washed and kissed them, and hushed their cries ;
While tears pressed out of her long-dead eyes.
But their father, who lay on a lower floor,
Had heard her step in the corridor.
And he rose and came, and saw her stand
With the children clinging to either hand.
She said, “ The crying smote my heart;
It broke my dreams of death apart...
“ Take note, ere I pass to my many dead:
Your children woke and had no bread,
“No fire, no lamp ; two were at strife ;
One cried uncomforted. Tell your wife.”
Lovely anti-climax !
ALICE MEYNELL.
MEMORANDA.
Prof. Osborne, of Melb. University, in a lecture
quoted in The Argus, attacks the Napoleonic
mystery from a new standpoint—that of physio-
logy. is a sign of the sense Of the times that,
instead of attributing the deeds of great men to
the especial influence of Providence, or to the
guidance of a familiar demon, we nowadays refer
them to the capacity of their brains and the
condition of their bodies. Napoleon, as Prof,
Osborne again points out, though b le could sleep
at will, was not a chary sleeper. Vne took seven
hours out of the twenty-four, an/l a nap in the
afternoon. jf
The faculty he certainly did possessi/was that of sleeping
at will, and of remaining' awake an-U alert for compara-
tively long periods when his activity could be useful. ...
The most extraordinary instance </'f this occurred in the
1797 campaign, when he was up a/id about for five con-
secutive days without any intend 3.! of rest. The physio-
logical comment we make on /this is not only what a
superb nervous system he haU. but also what superb
arteries! Forty-eight hours of is quite enough
to lower the blood-pressure q« 3 strong man in a very
marked degree, unless it up by intense mental
excitement or physical.-!-mi- Even if it be so kept up
there is usually afterf wa ™B a considerable reactionary
fall. But Napoleon, F e read, slept for thirty-six hours
after the long vigil, ajm arose as fresh as ever.
And Professor Os®orne adds y' -y
Even if he had done more than maintain a vast
empire in civic and military splendour witho it incurring
national debt, he would remain a wonder, "he superb
machinery of his brain cortex worked swiftly ani without
fatigue. Nerve cells would at one moment be thobbing
out their impulses at high power and speed, arAghe
next,be hushed to absolute rest. Further, he couiu
switch the whole current of his mental energy from one
direction to another without slowing down in rate, or
jarring the delicate valves and nerve bearings of his
brain.
The other body mechanisms of Napoleon kept pace
with his mental requirements. Sometimes, in cases of
great mental activity, the body gives way through some
inherent and grave defect, but more often this takes
place in consequence of worry. The brain may be active,
but confidence is lost, and work is carried out rather from
fear of failure than joy in the workmanship. If such bs
the case the body of necessity suffers, blood pressure falls,
the muscles get slack, digestion is impaired, and the body
may lose flesh, or more accurately stated, fat. Now the
insulating material of the nervous system is a phosphor-
ised fat, and any condition which impairs fat replenishing
impairs also the nerve machinery, and so the feeling of
worry is increased, and so on in a vicious circle. In such
cases, too, sleep is never so sound, and the imperfect
sleep aggravates the other conditions. A low blood
pressure, too, means feeble nutrition of all parts of the
body.
With Napoleon confidence never ebbed, and knowing
the nerve connections as we do, we may say that his
arteries were elastic, his blood pressure high (his ab-
normally slow pulse also indicates this), his muscles
braced, and his digestive juices poured out in full
quantit}-.
“How then,’’ asked Professor Osborne, “did
Napoleon fail?’’ First, he ate t.oo fast; second,
he took too many warm baths and stayed too long
in the water ; and third, he did not take sufficient
care of himself as he grew older. Nevertheless,
“ among the many facets of his character there is
one of which the physiologist will love to gaze,
and that is his strenuous but healthy activity in
his prime.” And as here has been pointed out
already, thus it is that biography should be
written.
J*
David G. Stead, naturalist to N.S.W. Fisheries
Board, has written and compiled in Fishes of
Australia (Syd., Brooks ; 7s. Gd.) “a popular and
systematic guide to the study of the wealth
within our waters,” with 98 illustrations. The
book represents a great deal of enthusiastic labour.
It does not purport to give a complete
catalogue of Australian fishes; but in regard
to leading species, and to species commonly met
with, it is as full as practicable, and it is not
too learned to be intelligible. As the work is
a local pioneer in its kind, the author has had
to traverse much territory that is new or un-
familiar, and the credit of his successful accom-
plishment is the greater. A description of fishing
nets currently used in N.S. Wales, and a disser-
tation on edible local fishes, are added to the
book.
If Edward Carpenter is anything he is an
English Whitman in .a milder way, and his book
of Days with Walt Whitman (Bond., Allen ; ss.
net) takes naturally the expression of a disciple
to a redeemer. People who admire the one will
find 'in-(the other an agreeable cud of contem-
plation. '
Now that turbid impressions have cleared, it is
generally understood that it is Whitman’s per-
sonality and ideas that are worth remembering,
not his literary accomplishment, albeit some
aspects of him are fine merely as literature. But
in the limited senses he was prophet rather than
poet, and his written expression of himself is
an accident of his era. Had he possessed the
gifts of an orator he would have been magni-
cent in remaining himself. He had the doctrine
and vocabulary of another Isaiah, but “the power
of the press ” and some personal weaknesses thrust
him. into the artificial writer’s groove, where he
never quite fitted. So he remains, more than most
authors, an author who must be taken apart from
his authorship if one is to win the best of him.
Carpenter’s book contains some personal infor-
mation of Whitman that is not at present common
property, and in defence of Whitman’s physical
attitudes he says as much as he dares..
Writing in The Nineteenth Century , Austin
Harrison—whom Gissing tutored—casts doubts
on the pathetic conception of that author as a
hero whose noble mind was o’erthrown in the
sordid struggle with poverty. “ Really Gis-
sing’s trouble was himself ; he made his own
poverty ; he could not be practical.” “He was
an outrageous pessimist.” “ His was an ill;
balanced nature, lacking in firmness, in volition.”
Harrison shows him in 1884 refusing to add to his
income. “A poor mart certainly he w-as, hut
from the year 1882 Gissing never ‘ starved,’ as he
is commonly represented to have done.
“ Old Chum” asks:
Who was John Lang, author of Botany Bay, The
Forger’s Wife, Too Clever by Half, tee ? I believe that he
was a barrister in Sydney many years ago, but beyond
that there is little known of him.
A.G.S.


WOOL
Sena Your WOOL to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., LTD.
The Leading Sydney Salesmen.
MICK SIMMONS.
The Leading Sports Depot.
CRICKET.
ss.
MEN’S BATS
Postage on Bat, Is., N.S.W. : Is. Bd., Inter-State.
BUSSEYS
CLAPSHAW’S 6s, 7s 3d, 8s 3d, 10s 6d, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ All Cane 13s, 15s.
F. H. AYRES’ DOUBLE RUBBER HANDLE STAMPED
' CAN’T BE BEAT” SPECIAL SELECTED ... 18s Od.
F. H. AYRES’ International
COBBETT’S
WISDEN’S
WARSOP’S
SYKE’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
SHAW & SHREWSBURY’S
BARTLETT’S ...
DARK’S
NICOLL’S
HEARN’S
STUART SURRIDGE
GUNN & MOORE’S
SPECIAL VALUE BATS
20s 24s 295.
10s Gd, 15s Gd, 18s Gd. 20s, 22s 6d.’
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s Gd. 17s 6d
.. 12s 6d, 16s, 18s 6d 20s, 255.
8s 6d, 14s 6d, 21s, 255.
8s 3d, 8s 6d, Us 6d, 14s.
18s, 19s, 19s 6d.
12s Gd, 15s, 18s, 19s Gd.
... 10s Gd, 17s Gd, 245.
... 15s Gd, 18s Gd, 225.
14s Gd, 22s Gd, 27s Cd.
... 13s 6d, 17s Gd, 21s.
21s, 255, 275.
l2s 6d
MEN’S STUMPS
Postage on one set Stumps, 25., N.S.W. : 3s
PLAIN BLACKWOOD
SUPERIOR ASH
ASH, Brass Tops, Steel Shod ...
ASH, Revolving Tops, Steel Shod
HICKORY, Brass Tops, Steel Shod
Bd., Inter-State.
...2s set.
... 3s, 3s 9d set.
5s 9d, 7s 9d, 8s Gd set.
... 10s 6d set.
16s 6d set.
MEN’S LEG GUARDS
Strong White Twill ... ... ...4s Gd pair.
Tan Leather, Continuous Straps ...6s Gd pair.
Tan Leather, Vent., Continuous Straps.. 8s Gd pair.
Tan Leather, Skeleton, Continuous Straps
10s 6d pair.
Best Quality Gold Cape...l2s Gd, 13s Gd, 16s Gd pair.
Postage on 1 pair Pads, Is, N.S.W. ; 1/8, Inter-State.
BATTING GLOVES
Featherweight ... ... ... 4s 6d pair.
Chamois, Tubular Rubber...ss Gd, 6s 6d, 8s Gd pair.
Surry Shields ... ... ... ... 4s each.
Postage on one pair Gloves, 4d pair.
fg
Leather Balls
(s£oz.)
“ M.S.” Special Gut Sewn,
4s 6d, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each.
Specially suited for Matting
W lckets.
DUKE’S ... 5s Gd, 6s 3d, 7s 6d each
SPECIAL SIX SEAM PRACTICE
BALLS-
Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d. extra.
k
Cricket Bags
Strong Canvas, Double Ended (leather), 14s 6d each.
Postage Is. 9d., N.S.W.; 3s. 2d., Inter-State.
Men’s Gauntlets
Tan or Drab Ventilated ... ... ... 5a pair
Gold Cape, Ventilated ... ... 6s 6d, 8a 6d pair
White Kid, Ventilated ... ... ... 7s 6d pair
Buff Chamois, Rubber Palm ... ... 7s 6d pair
Gold Cape, Rubber Palm ... 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d pair
All England Special ... ... ... 11s pair
The “Lilley” ... ... ... ... 14s pair
Postage on pair, 4d.
sdf
Cricket Nets
Complete S. Tarred, 18 x 6ft. ... 13s 6d each
42 x 6ft. ... 27s 6d each
42 x Bft. ... 35s each
Cricket Mats
Full Size Double Wickets, in two pieces, 6ft.
wide, green color —
£3 10s, £4, £5.
Boys’ Bats
Size —1
Solid Handle, Plain ... ... 9d.
Solid Handle, Polished ... ... Is.
Half Cane Handle
All Cane Handle
All Cane Handle, Selected
Postage on one Bat, Is.,
Boys’ Cricket Balls
Leather, Six Seam, Is., Is. 6d. each.
Composition, 3d., 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., Is. Bd.,
2s. 3d. each.
Postage on one Ball, 3d.
Boys’ Gauntlets
Chamois or Tan, Ventilated, 3s. 6d. pair.
Gold Cape, Ventilated, 6s. 6d. pair.
Postage on one pair Gauntlets, 4d.
Scoring Books
1 Pocket Size (Postage 3d.), 6d., Is. each.
2 Full Size (Postage 3d.), Is., Is. 6d., 2s. 6d.
each.
Bat Handle Covers
1 Plain Red Rubber (Postage Id.), Is., Is. 3d.,
Is. fid. each,
2 Pure Black Para Rubber, Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
3 Red Rubber (Fancy Patterns), Is. 6d. each.
4 Red Rubber (to Bind on Handle), Cafferay’s
Patent, Is. 9d. each.
Boys’ Leg Guards
Strong Canvas, continuous Straps, 4s. 6d. pair.
Tan Leather ~ ~ 55., 6s. 6d. „
Postage on one pair Guards, Is., N.S.W. ;
Is. Bd., Interstate.
Boys’ Stumps
Polished, with Bails, 6d., 9d., Is., Is. 6d., 2s.
2s. 6d. set.
Postage on first three sets, 9d., N.S.W.; Is. 2d.,
Interstate ; on last three sets, Is. 3d.,
N.S.W. ; 2s. 2d., Interstate,
Cricket Sundries
1 Ash Bails (Set of Four), (Post. 2d.), 9d. set.
2 Lignum Bails (Set of Four), Post 2d.) Is. 6d.
set.
3 Rubber Bails (Post. 4d.), 2s. 6d. set.
4 Steel Shoes for Stumps (Post. 4d.), Is. 3d. set.
5 Bat Binding Twine (Post 2d.), Is. 6d!, 2s. Gd!
ball.
6 Boot Spikes, on Card (Post Id.), Is. card.
7 Boot Screw Nails, on Card (Post Id.), 6d.
card.
8 Wicket Regulator (Horn and Parr’s), 2s. 6d.
each.
9 Bat Oil, specially prepared (Post. Is. extra)
lOd. bottle.
10 Book on Cricket (Post. Id.), 6d. each.
Illustrated Fishing- Tackle, Sports, Tobacco Lists, Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing—Post Free.
GUNS and RIFLES.
20in.
stock
The “Bullseye” Rifle, 22 Calibre,
Octagon Steel Barrel, rifled, Remington action, walnut
, open sights, weight about 3Jib. ..
Postage—ls 9d N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
11/6
The Celebrated
“MAINE’’
RIFLE
fitted with Sporting- Rear Sights to 300yds., Bolt
Action, ISin. Blued Steel Barrel, Walnut Stock.
Shoots 22 Short, Long, or Extra Long Cartridges.
J .-^1
"THE MAINE ”
Pifie
<S'heu//ng 0/f/e A parr.
gs
PRICE 15/6
POSTAGE ON RIFLE—N.S.W., 1/3; INTER-
STATE, 2/2 EXTRA.
MICK SIMMONS.
WINCHESTER THUMB TRIGGER RIFLE.
22 cal., 20in. Blued Steel Barrel, bolt action, weight about 2}lb
Postage : N.S.W., Is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d.. .. ..
13s 6d
Winchester S.S. Rifle, 1902 Model, 22 Cal., R.P., peep or V
sights, scroll trigger guard, steel heel plate, weight 2?lb
Postage: N.S.W., is 3d ; Inter-State, 2s 2d.. . 3
18s 6d
Re T , J 1 w t ? ri „?' S ' Rifle ' New Model, 22 Calibre, R.F.,
N.S.W., Is 6d ; Interstate, 2s 8d
20in. barrel, weight 3£lb.
Postage
PO S91
Winchester
1904
Model.
dfg
‘‘Winchester” Single Shot Rifle, 1904
9lin io,„, Model, for 22" short or long rim fire cartridges,
21m. heavy round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action
silhtItW 1 t Wh rear f'' !, engt l l 0f rifle over all 37Jin., bead front
sight with patent alloyed tip, which will not
,?’ ei " ht about 41b. (Postage, Is 9d
N.S.W. ; 3s 2d Inter-State).
24s
i£b
Stevens’
Little
Kra.gr.
s . s - “ Li * tle Kraer,” 22 Calibre, bolt action, blued
barrel, 20m. long-, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger guard DeeD
sight with V sight if required 6d extra, length over all 3fiin P
weight about 3Jlb. (Postage, Is 6d N.S.W. ;2s 8d Inter-State) ’’
steel round
21s
sd
oievens' " ravorite.”
Sterns; S.S. “Favorite,” 22, 22 W.R.F., 25, or 32 cal., rim
nre, nau octagon 22in. barrel, case-hardened frame, solid breech block
3s2d r Inter State)”’ ° Pen fr ° nt and rear si^hts > wei fe rhfc 4£lb. (Postage, Is 9d N.S.W. ;
Stevens’ S.S. “ Favorite,” 22 or 32 cal. R.F.‘,‘fitted with beach combination front s'iirht
rear and vernier, else same description as above (Post., N.S.W. Is 9d ; Inter-State, 3s 2d " P
£1 lOs
£2
Leston
Daly
Coy.
D.8.8.L.
Gun
fg
MICK SIMMONS
LESTON, DALY CO. S D.8.8.L. GUN, 12 gauge, top lever, steel barrels, extension rib,
rebounding locks, left choke, pistol stock, weight about 71b. Postage—N.S.W. 2s 9d •
Inter-State, 5s 2d ’ ’
LESTON, DALY CO.’S D.8.8.L. GUN, same as above, but with Greener Cross Bolt.
Postage—N.S.W., 2s 9d ; Inter-State, 5s 2d
35s
45s
MICK
SIMMONS
sdf
THE GLOBE
gsd
40s
ISAAC
HOLLIS
& SONS’
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 Gauge, Top Lever, Bar Action,
Real Twist or Steel Barrels, Greener Cross Bolt,
Left Choke, Rebounding Locks, Snap Fore-end,
chambered for 2Jin. Cartridges. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders.
Postage. 2s 9d N.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
“The Reliable,”
£6 12s 6(1
fg
HOLLIS & SONS’ “THE RELIABLE” D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
GUN, 12-gauge, top lever, genuine Damascus or “ Siemen’s ” steel barrels,
both choke, side look action, automatic safety bolt, extended rib,
Deeley-Edge patent fore-end, fitted with Greener cross-bolt, neatly engraved, chambered for
2jfin. cartridges. GUARANTEED FOR ALL SMOKELESS POWDERS, and absolutely the
finest-quality Gun in the States. Postage, 2s9dN.S.W. ; 5s 2d Inter-State.
£l2 12s
REMITTANCE AND FREIGHT MUST ACCOMPANY ORDER.'■<§2®
MICK SIMMONS, Haymarket, Sydney.


CURED MEN TESTIFY
Mr. THOS. J. SMITH, of the Salvation Army, whom we
cured, and who testifies to our skill.
Mr. THOMAS J. SMITH, late Sergeant-Major, now Treasurer, Salvation Army, Prahran,
Melbourne, whom we cured and made strong and perfectly healthy, testifies to our Specialists skill
in the following splendid manner. He is a man of marked abilities and considerable organising
power, as maybe judged by his position. His testimony should be read and remembered by all
men desiring to be cured and to regain lost health and strength. He says :
“It affords me great pleasure to express my gratitude for the benefit
accrued since / resorted to your specialistic method of treatment. For some
twelve years / have been an acute sufferer, the whole nervous and physical
organisation seeming to be involved. /am now cured, and a new man."
(Signed) THOS. d. SMITH.
SPECIAL DISEASES.
Men, Don’t Wait until your whole system is polluted with disease, or until your nervous
system is tottering under the strain, and you become a physical and mental wreck, unfit for work,
study, or social duties and obligations of life. Improper or half-way treatment can only do harm.
The worst cases we have had were those which had been improperly treated before coming to us,
some having been maimed for life by bungling surgical procedures. We cure by restoring and pre-
serving important organs. We do not advocate their mutilation or destruction in an effort to make
a quick cure. Every afflicted man owes it to himself, his family, and to the future generation, to
get cured SAEELY and thoroughly.
We Make No Misleading 1 Statements or deceptive propositions to the afflicted, neither
do we promise to cure them in a few days in order to secure their patronage. An honest doctor
of recognised ability does not resort to such methods. We guarantee a Safe and Lasting Cure
in the Quickest Possible Time, without leaving injurious after-effects m the system, and at the
lowest cost possible for Honest, Skilful, and Successful Treatment.
The Preeman and Wallace Specialists are the Longest Established, Most Successful, and
Reliable Specialists in Diseases of Men, as Diplomas and Newspaper Records Show.
Some of the Diseases we treat with unfailing 1 success are
Deadly Varicocele, Urinary Affections, Contagious Blood
Poison, Lost Energy, Weakness, Rupture, Piles, Insomnia,
Rheumatism, Bladder Disorders, Kidney Ailments, Indiges-
tion, General Debility, all Reflex Ailments, and all Diseases
and Weaknesses due to Evil Habits, Excesses, or the result
of Specific Diseases. If you sufFer, call upon us or write.
We charge nothing for advice. Consultation and
Examination Free.
Saved from the Grave by the Skillful
Freeman & Wallace Staff of Surgeons.
_— +
We save men from the grave daily by our wonderfully skillful restorative
treatment. Weak nervous wrecks are cured by us and made MEN IN
STRENGTH AND POWER. We root out disease, restore strength, check un-
natural wasting, and bring back the vigor of youth to the hopeless despairing man.
Our methods are scientific, and our remedies remarkable in their action to check
disease, and to make strength. Men have been cured by
THE FREEMAN & WALLACE TREATMENT
in a few months from diseases that have made them martyrs for years. They
have been glad to add their testimony to thousands of others, and have, like the
men whose photographs appear here, been made strong and vigorous. No men
should hesitate to consult the Freeman and Wallace Specialists if they are far
away from a doctor, and need reliable treatment. The Specialists’ Parcel Post
System reaches all parts of Australia. Men on remote cattle runs, sheep stations,
or mining camps may be treated as well as if they were in the Doctor’s study.
Dr. Wallace
replies at once
to all letters,
and gives his
advice FREE
of charge to
all sufferers.
Mr. GEORGE SIMPSON, of Mullawarre, Victoria,
who says we have made him a new man.
Testimony from Mr. GEORGE SIMPSON, of Mullawarre, Victoria, whom we treated
for Nerve Weakness. His condition was a desperate one, but we ultimately restored him
to complete health. After detailing his recovery, Mr. Simpson concludes an interesting
letter thus: —
The last remedies you sent are doing a wonderful amount
of good. /am now splendid in health in every way. / feel
that / am cured for good, and / thank you for restoring me
to health and strength once more. / am glad I consulted you.
(Signed) GEORGE SIMPSON.
GEORGE TOWNS, the World’s Champion Sculler, also says of our treatment
I underwent a course of your Electro-Mledical Treatment.
I soon felt better and strong, confident that / could stand
any strain hard and continuous training might impose.
Your Medical Battery is the best / have used.
(Signed) GEORGE TOWNS.
Mr. F. BARKER (care of Messrs. Barker Bros., 262 Victoria-street, Richmond,
Melbourne), who, after unavailing treatment at the hands of several medical men,
writes as follows :
«/ desire to express my gratitude. / was afflicted very
gravely. Treatment at the hands of two well-known doctors
failed to do me good. / was persuaded to undergo a course
of your treatment. The results have gratified me almost
beyond expression. /am now restored to sound health.”
CORRESPONDENCE. —If you cannot call at our office, fully describe your and you will
receive in a plain envelope a scientific and honest opinion of your case. T GUARANTEED'CUREIN bVtHY
PASP ACCEPTED. The Chief Physician, Dr. WALLACE, L.R.0.5., E., L.R.C.P., E., L.M., is registered by
Australian and English Medical Boards, and may be consulted free by post or personally. He bears diplomas
from some of the leading Medical Centres of Great Britain and Scotland.
OUR MEDICAL EOOK FREE.— At the Institute, Sydney, you can help yourself to our Medical
Book, “Clinical Experiences,” in which a description of our work is given. It contains full information,
which we cannot publish here for want of space. If you live out of the nl?artirfes on
contains 750 pages, 31 medical chapters, on disease and its cure, 150 medical plates, 100 medical articles
Household matters, and it should be on every book-shelf in every homestead in Australia. Write at once for it.
We will post it free to any address.
The FREEMAN & WALLACE
Electro-Medical and Surgical Institute,
Cor. Elizabeth & Bathurst Sts,, Sydney
AND AT MELBOURNE
Howard Freeman, Director
Dr. Wallace, Physician-in-Ohief
Dr. Elizabeth White, M.D., Diseases of Women
Dr. F. Bell, Lecturer to the Institutes.


Not every
wom a n
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many (
would (
wr,nt one
around, any-
way. But you'
certainly can'*
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor; *
and most women would *
be greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much \
to have long, rich, heavy'
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
the deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
sdfg
sdf
lifer’s
flair Vigor
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
Clean White
Teeth
mean sound teeth, fit for their
work, the condition they are kept
in by the use of
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Tooth Powder .
It is made, for cleaning the Teeth, and
does it, too, pleasantly, thoroughly and
gently, without scratching or injuring
the enamel. That is why it is in such
constant demand all over the world.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
Be rosy and strong by
enriching your blood
and filling out your
form with the aid of
Scott's Emulsion* You
cannot go on being
anaemic, languid, apa-
thetic or downhearted
at the same time as
you are taking Scott's
which is bound to
delight you with the
feelings of vigour, *£
buoyancy and pulsing
life it always brings*
®?ofehead Street, Redfern, Sydney,
N.S.W., Sept. I, 1905. “ For a long time
my daughter Ruby, aged twelve years, bad
been very delicate and anaemic. At last I
decided to give Scott’s Emulsion a trial.
My daughter was able to take it readily, it
agreed well with her, and so thoroughly
built up her system that she is not like the
same child, being now a fine healthy and
sprightly girl .” (Mrs.) Jessie Foss.
Scott’s Emulsion of cod liver oil and hypo-
phosphites of lime and soda is the most
nourishing of all food-medicines; it is made
by the celebrated original Scott process and
is pure and wholesome.
Scott’s cannot offend
your taste, cannot upset
your stomach.
It will cost you nothing
to begin today 1 Write
for a free sample bottle
(enclosing 4d.for postage
and mentioning this pa-
Eer). Scott & Bowne,
td., 483 Kent Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Always get the Emul-
sion with this mark—the
Fishman— the mark of
the ’Scott” process 1
IRISH MOSS
The besf remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Banning ton's
and, seetkatyou get it .
FINNEY, ISLES & GO., LIMITED.
OUR FAMOUS
BIG BLOCK SUITS,
Made to Measure. In
All-Wool Tweeds
40 i-
and Pure Indigo
£> Serges.
TROUSERS ONLY, 12s. 6d.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE COMMONWEALTH,
FOR PATTERNS.
•‘THE BIG
BLCCK,”
Edward & Adelaide Sts.,
BRISBANE.
m
(jIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
Cream, or Black
Tipped with
White.
WRITE NOW.
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
5/ Length, 12 inches.
/ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twipe the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swan6ton Streets, Melbourne.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
gsd
His Majesty The
King' and
Boyal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
*• Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
Loudon, Aberdeen, Seville.
BYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
fgs
The Queen says :—“ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Revolution.
I pray for Revolution, for the mad rush down the
street,
For Liberty guarded with blood-stained swords,
and Tyranny trampled by angry feet,
For a headless, imbecile king, for the roar of a
wakened race,
For Russia to rise in her might at last, and cleanse
the world of the world’s disgrace.
The blood trickles drop by drop, and blots the
land with a stain,
Which the blood of her rulers would wash away
till she came forth clean in our eyes again;
For cruel is red revolt, but this.is crueller far:
That the sword and the knife are turned away
from the tyrant prince and the foolish Czar.
I pray for Revolution—it is better that ten should
die
Than that twice ten thousand should slowly bleed
while the world is racked by their bitter cry—
For the bomb and the guillotine; for the barri-
caded street;
Till Vengeance is swiftly, suddenly full, and
Liberty enters with quiet feet!
VIO.
L.
Ballade of the Summer Damsel.
Just as the dawn flashes out of the night
Hot Youth ranges forth when the springtime is
done;
Ambition is spurred to the giddiest height,
It will pluck at the stars, re-gikl the red sun,
And cozen old Fortune, there but to be won.
Alas, for the things we are eager to do,
There are various wiles the ambitious must shun,
And each summer there’s a fresh damsel to woo.
Our learnin "; is bookish, and deep, and polite,
But philosophy, stowed in our heads by the ton,
Is jettisoned soon when some vision in white,
Whose face quickens ever with frolic and fun,
Or of aspect sedate, more befitting a nun,
Sails into Life’s sea; for who would not pursue
Is the silliest sort of a son of a gun,
And each summer brings a fresh damsel to woo.
Oh, Love is a will o’ the wisp, a mad sprite,
And whithersoever we go, it will run,
And whatever we’re set upon, it will invite
Us to do something different; what is begun
It will make us leave off in the middle. A Hun
And a Vandal is Love, but what would a man
do?—
Would he rather not light in the web for him
spun
When summer brings him a fresh damsel to woo ?
Youth, Youth—is there one who has missed the
delight
That each merry summertime serves to renew ?
Come, waste not your sympathy on the sad wight,
Sweet summer is here with fresh damsels to woo.
ENGLAND.
THOROLD DALRYMPLE.
A Maoriland Valley.
There’s a valley that I love to ride along—
Not fair enough, perhaps, to meed a song ;
And yet to me, who know her best, she seems
The tenderest little valley out of dreams.
The folded hills that hold her gentle breath,
Slope softly down to meet the road beneath ;
When sunset blows a kiss and goes to rest,
Her hills, encarmined, look their loveliest.
When Summer, weeping, says goodbye, and goes,
My valley’s lonely, until Winter throws
A soft white veil across her dimpled breast,
And bids her, for a little while, to rest.
For countless ages has she waited so,
Through yellow Summer and through Winter
snow;
And thus, through other ages, shall she stay,
When I, who love her best, have passed away.
And those who know her not will often ride
Along the road I loved. From either side
My hills shall smile in dimpled loveliness:
My creek shall sing as strangers onward press.
These other hearts may thrill at sight of her—
Or may not give a thought that she is fair !
To me, who love her most, she ever seems
The tenderest little valley out of dreams.
G.A.K.
The Harbor.
Upon the harbor,
A perfect night,
The wind is hushed
and
The moon is bright.
Out of a storm-cloud’s
Hazy fold
She rises, tinging
The edge with gold,
A storm-cloud forming
A misty bar,
Like smoking summit
Of mountain far.
Solemn and silvern,
Peaceful and still,
The moonlight shines
on
The shadowed hill,
A ring of light is
The city’s throne,
Girdling the sea with
A starry zone
Of zig-zag flashes and
Glittering spires,
Flaking the waters
With crystal fires.
N.s.w.
They dance and shim-
mer,
And swoon and blaze,
Sea-serpents sporting
A thousand rays'.
The shadows flicker,
The shadows fall,
A laden silence
Is over all;
Out of the night do
The dream-ships glide,
And sail like stars on
The sleeping tide.
A wind blows fresh on
The rolling sea,
From far-off verge of
Eternity,
And passes over
The city dim,
The sacred music
Of Nature’s hymn ;
The world lies wrapped
in
A dreamy sleep,
A silence vast and
A silence deep.
THE BUD.
An interesting pamphlet is that from the
pen of Dr. Frank Tidswell, of the N.S.W.
Health Department, dealing with poisoning by
snake-bite, the sting of the platypus, and the bite
of the red-spotted spider. The first part, a
searching investigation of 190 recorded cases of
snake-bite, elicits much valuable information,
which summarises thus :
The black snake would appear to be the most numer-
ous, or the most active, as it heads the list with 87 cases,
though no fatal ones. Then follow the tiger and the
brown with 33 cases (15 deaths), and 32 cases (six deaths)
respectively. Last comes the death adder with 10 cases
and five deaths, which result marks it as the deadliest,
though, luckily, the rarest of all. The majority of the
cases occurred in warm weather, yet of the 190 cases
there were some in every month of the year except June.
Excluding black snakes, which showed no fatalities, bites
received during the cool weather were more deadly than
those received in the warmer season, being 41 -6 per cent,
as against 33'3 per cent. Examination of remedial
means employed discloses the fact that the use of strych-
nine appears to have in no way influenced the result, and
the same, though not so clearly shown, would appear to
be true of alcohol. On the other hand, the use of the
ligature seems to have had a very decided influence, the
death-rate being 25'4 per cent, as against 55'5 per cent,
in non-ligatured cases.
A series of laboratory experiments upon rabbits, to
test the activity of the different venoms, placed the
tiger-snake venom first, as being 14 times more deadly
than that of the black snake, and four times deadlier
than that of the brown snake and death adder. Com-
paring the average amounts found to be yielded at a bite,
it was found that the'death adder headed the list, giving
three times more than the tiger, seven times more than
the black, and about 17 times more than the brown
snake. The net result coincides very closely with that of
the recorded cases.
Most interesting of all were the experiments with a
curative serum, or antivenine, which Dr. A. Calmette, of
the Pasteur Institute, had placed upon the market.
Tried against local snakes, it failed to yield any result,
and this experience was confirmed by observers in other
countries, who found it of little or no use against any
save cobra venom, with which it had been chiefly
prepared. Following this up, Dr. Tidswell prepared
a serum with blood from a horse immunised with
tiger-snake venom only. This antivenine, when
used upon rabbits into which a lethal dose of tiger-
snake venom had been injected previously, was found to
be absolutely efficacious, if used early enough and in suf-
ficient quantity. Against the venom of other snakes, it
had no neutralising effect whatever.
From these facts, the conclusion is drawn that a serum
is only effectual against the particular venom with which
it has been prepared, and this leads Dr. Tidswell to
remark : “ Thus, snakebite would appear for the moment
beyond the sphere of practical serotherapy.” [Surely
that remark cannot hold good of N.S.W., where there
would appear to be but four highly venomous snakes of
common occurrence, and, if we omit the black snake,
only three. The preparation and distribution of but
three antivenines would seem to most people eminently
a practicable measure.]
The experiments with platypus venom are chieflv inte-
resting as showing that its action and effects are similar
to snake venom.
“A.P.R. : Here are two problems. Why-
do goannas, up in the Gulf country, never climb
trees when pursued ? The same species of goanna
abounds further south, and he ascends trees on
the slightest provocation, but the Gulf-living
“ go.” absolutely refuses to do so when disturbed.
Possibly he is afraid of some arboreal enemy.
Again, when a blackfellow chops a hole in a tree-
trunk to secure a ’possum that is in the hollow,
why does not the ’possum shift further up or
down ? A stone tomahawk, or half a horse-shoe
bound hatchet-wise to a stick, is the weapon used,
and the chopping may last over an hour, and must,
perforce, arouse the ’possum. But he does not
shift. Is it suicide, or pure idiocy ?


•gidpuud leninw uo saußjnssy 3//7 JOj -etsi aansnayisa
iiiapiAOJd \vn\nyi uuip^sny
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
F H- e J? ho,d and C-P ‘ (Combined) Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.0., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
. T , _ General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Cures While
You Sleep
f ESTABLISHED 1879.
A Vaporized Medicine having Extraordinary
Curative Powers over
Whooping Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
Influenza,
AND DISTRESSING COUGHS IN YOUNG AND OLD. :
IT PROTECTS YOUR HOME AGAINST CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
Vapo-Cresolene complete 7-6$ Cresolene, 16 oz., 7-6$ 4 oz., 2-3$ 2 oz., 1-3*
VAPO-CRESOLENE COMPANY, NEW YORK, U. S. A.
Trade Supplied by THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG COMPANY. LTD.
dfg
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE.
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced bv these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
214 Queen Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd,
SYDKTE3Y,
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHBEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL
SKINS are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special
attention to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered
promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITXOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
“REPEATER”
SMOKELESS POWDER
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
Carefully inspected shells, the best com-
binations of powder, shot and wadding,
loaded by machines which give invariable
results are responsible for the superiority of
Winchester “Repeater” Factory Loaded
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cartridges.
There is no guesswork in loading them.
Reliability, velocity, pattern and penetra-
tion are determined by scientific apparatus
and practical experiments. Do you shoot
them ? If not, why not ? They are
THE ONLY CARTRIDGES TO SHOOT
&
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
AH Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOUXDER LINE STEAMERS. fIrSH&SSST 1
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, Sc.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,750
OVINGDEAN GRANGE 3,700
URMSTON GRANGE 5,600
LANGTON GRANGE 9,200
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,000
ROYSTON GRANGE 6 330
Steamer. Tons
BEACON GRANGE 6,300
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,200
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,000
THORPE GRANGE 6,350
HAYERSHAM GRANGE 11,200
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,000
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,300
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leaden hall-street, London, E.O.
Brimful of Nourishment
Trade
MariL'SP
PLASMON
The Food for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmon Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, Sic.)
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
salt;
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s * Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENO’B ‘ FRUIT SALT;' Without It you bare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. Q. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON. XNGK.
by J. O. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
iS^S
Va
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
There’s SECURITY In
ITTLE
IVER
PI LLS
Small Pill. Small Dost. Small Prie&
They TOUGH the
LIVER
Be Sure they are
Carter's


For Sunburn
or Sore Eyes
quick relief can ba
obtained by the applica-
tion of the well known remedy,
CALVERT'S
Carbolic Ointment.
It has a good record of success for cure of
many skin ailments, itch, ringworm, piles,
etc. Minor mishaps such as cuts, bruises
or scalds will keep healthy and heal rapidly
with its use.
Sold by local Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,
England.
THE BALLET GIRL
sdf
gsd
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY,
RHEUMATISM.
GOUT
PILLS
Arc recommended by doctors with confi
deuce as one of the valuable results of
medical science, and the only remedy
ever discovered for these disorders, in
that they not only rapidly cure blit pre-
vent the recurrence of the malady.
Of Chemists and Stores, 1/1£ and 2/9 per box.
Proprietors— PitOUT & CO., 229, Strand,
London, England.
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars tree. Address—
JA S. C R A I G & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
A
58
i'!
a
ill!
in
ill;
iH
III'!
1111 1 !
hi i
ni• • i
1
111 l
25
•Send us tHis Coupon and Get Free BooK
TUE DR. McLAUGHLIN CO., 100 W Market Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,— Please send me vour ILLUSTRATED FREE BOOK, as
advertised
(Name)
Address
WIUUH CHARLES CSAWFMD
B. 11/10,’6.
fgs
Many of the
COMMONWEALTH’S
/ sturdy sons and daughters owe their
/ good health and splendid physique to the
strength-giving ana nourishing properties oi
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
A pure liquid food which gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system,
and which can be absorbed with litt'e
digestive effort. Invaluable for young
and old at all times and seasons.
“ The Standard of highest
purity.”— 7he Lancet.
COCOA.
§
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDf
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
dfg
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,
Specialist
In a^„ p I £ ivate > Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
or Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
... . __ innnimam ti X J'USI A oJr'JH.CIALT Y.
Mtjen ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
“Will Cure the Nervea, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6*d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS. £ upe all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
a» fl— ■ aGravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43*6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
yfpolf Women Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
VVccflSl VWUIIIKSBI Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
SORE
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT (
FOR SORB AND WEAK EYES, BLIGHT, AND
RESTORES EYELASHES.
A CERTAIN REMEDY
EYES
ALL EYE TROUBLES.
INI EVER FAILS.
Ask your Chemist for the Little Book •
“HOW TO PRESERVE THE EYES”
CURED
Strong' Men
Made from Weaklings.
AUR Secretarial Chamber is filled with letters from
cured men and women. . . . Men who were weak
and puny now declare that their strength is enormous;
that their functional organs work perfectly ; that they
do not know what it is to be sick, and if you question
their physical strength, they say : “ I’m as strong as
a horse, and
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
made me so. Before I got it I was only a ‘half-man,’ —now look at me.” These
are Dr. McLaughlin’s men—the men whose gratitude is building our reputation
far and wide. They were cured and are grateful. Let us cure you, and you
will be as grateful as they.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is a certain remedy in its effect. It cures
and strengthens the organs so that the old complaints never come back. It is
absolutely guaranteed in Every Case Undertaken !
Do you suffer from Varicocele, Atrophy of the Organs,
Bladder or Kidney Disease, Blood Poison, Rheumatism
or Lumbago? if you do, our Bolt will cure you as
surely as the sun lights the day. It is not a “ Cure
All,” but always cures when prescribed. We want you
to use it, because iwe know how glad you will be
a fterwards.
FREE BOOK!
SEND US THE FOLLOWING COUPON,
and let us post our Illustrated Book to you.
It will tell you how we make gladiators out
of weaklings and men whose physique is not what it should be. This Book is
the best work ever published dealing with the uses of Electricity as applied to
the human body. It contains 96 pages of good reading and sound advice for both
men and women, and gives a detailed description and the prices of our various
grades of Belts. Send for it To-day.
CALL at our Office and consult our Specialist personally. Advice and Test
of Belt Free. 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily.
RHEUM A TISM CURED.
Mount Hartley, via Cooktown, Q.
Dear Sir,—l am glad to report that I am now entirely cured of
Rheumatism, for which complaint I secured your appliance. There
is no doubt in my mind at all about Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
being the “ real thing ” when it comes to curing Rheumatism.
Yours truly,
evans mcintosh.
the dr. mclaughlin co„
IQOW Marhet Street, Sydney.
Don't
waste time in
experimenting .
Thirty Years’
unbeaten and increase
ing Success is the
best proof of the claim of
OwMge
” £ung iontc
to be the WORLD'S CURE
for Coughs , Colds,
Asthma, Bronchitis,
and other Throat and
Lung Troubles.
It can be obtained from
any Chemlstor Store,
and Saves Manv
Lives.
A
ASK, FOR,
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
SUBSTITUTES.
ggHSI
SP
fSHAM
Gives
Permanent
Polish.
Preserves and
Cleans the
Leather.
SOLD BY ALL STORE-
KEEPERS AND BOOT AND
SHOE SHOPS.
sdf
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
Money in full refunded without qu- stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
cycles, warranted six years.
LATEST
MODELS
£2.10 to £6
Eadie or New Departure Coaster Hubs, Dunlop
or (lincher A Won Tyres, Inverted Lever Rim
Brakes, Two Speed Gears, etc.
backed and Delivered Free
.0 any port in the world. We guarantee safe
delivery.
2G0
Second-Hand Cycles
all makes, £f £2.10
goou as new,
Great factory clearance sale at haJf factory prices.
EARN A CYCLE
taking orders from sample
machine. Active Agents
wan'ed in each district. Large profits easily ir ade. Write at once for
free catalogues and our speciol using sufficient postage.
Tyres, Sundries, Sewing Machines, Phonographs, <fcc., haIf prices,
ME AO GYGLE GO - **33
LIVERPOOL. LONDON AND CHICAGO.
gsd
L
DEAFNESS
“The Electricon.”
A miniature Device
for the EAR—invis-
ible, easily adjusted,
aud entirely com-
fortable. Makes low
sounds and whispers
plainly heard. Over
fifty thousan I sold,
giving instant relief from deafness
and head no ses.
There ar* 1 but few cases of deafness that
cannot be benefited. Write for booklet
and testimonials.
THE L. R. VERNON CO.,
60-64 Hunter St., Sydney.
B
FQ3 MORE THAN TWENTY YEARS
we have made the cure of blood poison a
specialty, Primary, Secor dnry or Tertiary
Blood Poison Permanently Cured. You can
be treated at home under same guaranty.
Capital 500,000 dels. We solicit the most
obstinate cases. If you have exhausted the
old methods of treatment, and still have tidies
and pains, Mucus Patches in Mouth, Sore
Throat, Pimples, Copper-Colored Spots,
Ulcers on any part of the body, Hair or
Eyebrows falling out, write for proofs of
cures. 100-page Book Free.
COOK REMEDY Co.,
1102 MfISCNIO TEMPLE, Chicago, U.S.A.


THE LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabrio fop Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich In appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the NEW “LOUIS’ CHIFFON VEL DUVET
Is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen a d
softness of texture, and no other fabric ynt produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, ard the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should Insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of Inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
THE “ BRUNSWICK” |o| MACHINE
@22
may be classed as a small HOUSEHOLD REFRICERATOR.
It’s capacity varies from 10 tons of ice to lOlbs., and it
is in its smallest size that its remarkable convenience
for small households is apparent.
Hotels, boarding houses, butchers, and restaurants
have hitherto had to be contented with an Ice Box and a
few blocks of ice—a wasteful and expensive proceeding.
With the BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE you have a port-
able cold storage sufficient to keep sweet and sound all
your perishable stock, and, in the smallest size, give you
101 b. of ice per day for actual use as ice as well as
refrigeration—equal to 2001bs. of ice. The whole thing
is run by a little i-horse power motor, and the cost is
very moderate.
THE BRUNSWICK HOUSEHOLD ICE MACHINE
solves for ever the question of cold storage
on a small private scale. Send for Circular
and further particulars.
BUIACOTT & CO., Ltd., So/e Aaen 7& 9 Market St., Sydney,
fgs
BOORS. PLAYS.
CONJURING
APPARATUS.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
*
ADRIAN & CO.,
(late WILL ANDRADE),
5 08 George Street, SYDNEY.
4r
GOOD HAIR FOR ALL I
HOLLAND’S Marvellous Hair Restorer
has gained a world-wide reputation for arresting the premature decay,
promoting the growth, and giving lustre to the hair. If your hair is
falling off, try it; if it is thin, try it. Price, 3s, 4s, 6s ; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S PARA SENE
for Eczema, Ringworm, and all Parasitical Diseases of the Head, and for
making hair grow on Bald Patches. Price, 6s; Postage 9d extra.
HOLLAND’S NATURALINE
for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Color. It acts Quickly,
Naturally, and Effectively. Price, 5/6; Postage 9d extra.
CONSULT E. HOLLAND for ALL DISEASES OF THE HAIR.
Sold by all Chemists, and by
HOLLAND,
HAIR,
SPECIALIST,
195 Collins StMelbourne
dfg
>
<=®llD*
\
J. Rennon&iSons
are the . . .
Larg'est Tanners and Exporters
of Raw Skins in Victoria £7
and therefore require a large quantity of
Kangaroo, Wallaby,
Opossum, Sheep and
R.abbit SKins, also Hides,
Tallow, Wool, Horse
Hair, besides Fox, Hare,
and Otber SKins, etc.
to keep their works going.
O
Don’t hesitate to send consignments—whether large
or small, both receive equal treatment—and every-
thing will be done to merit continuance of your favors.
Consignments from N.S.W. and Queensland should be sent care of Howard Smith & Sons S.S. Co.
Price List and all information sent on application.
Account Sales sent same day Goods reach us.
No Commission or other Charges deducted.
Note Address—
J. Rennon & Sons
TANNERS (Si EXPORTERS,
Richmond, Victoria.
sdf
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &C.
Consign to : —
WIiCHOORfIBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
NEVER HAPPENS WHEN
mm
:*SiS
. . ■ :
m
m
MM
■
■ • ■ .. ■ ■ -'-A*
mm
/ r ip e . - ' ciyp *
TUB WORK OP PUB
nmK
ONE OF THE WORST PESTS Australasia has to contend against • is the WHITE ANT.
This small but terrible enemy commences to get in its fine work in the spring-time, and continues u c s-
ingly all through the summer. A coat of AVENARIUS to the wood-work of your house, barn or s a e y
a few shillings and rid you of the pest. Neglect it, and next spring pounds will have to-be spent in order to even patch up t e
damage. AVENARIUS is not only a sure cure for White Ants, but the best wood-preserving oil known. It imparts a nut-
brown color to the wood, giving it the appearance of being stained
AVENARIUS
may be obtained
from all
store Keepers, or
E. RICH & CO. LTD-
Sydney.
E. RICH & CO. LTD.
Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 27.—N0. 1391.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1906.
Pbioe 6d.
THE SENTINEL OF THE PACIFIC-WANTED, COMPULSORY MILITARY TRAINING.


XMAS NUMBER*
We are now boo King
Agents’ Orders.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
‘'Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-Rtreet North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 018 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you ‘every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address fetters.
Correspondents to Tiif, Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lilac,h ami White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i. e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions tvill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each, mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Offce, No. 1 Broad-street Place.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetoivn;
Messrs. 11. A. Thompson £ Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size Gfin. x lffin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1906.
SECESH AND OTHER POOR JOKES.
Just for the moment there is a faint ripple on the
surface or upper slush of Westralian parish poli-
tics, and one or two inflated little insects that
buzz in the vicinity call the ripple a secession
movement. The prime mover is one Monger, or
Banger, or Mongrel or something like that; its
front name is Freddy, and at last general election
it got 315 votes at the aged town of York, which
is still lighted with kerosene. Monger isn’t even
of sufficient status to-hold a portfolio in a place
where Newton Moore is good enough to be
Premier, yet he is the head and front of the secesh
movement, and there is humorous talk of a
referendum on the subject, and a Bill, and a cam-
paign, and such-like. Monger thus rises towards
the level of Worrall, Judkins, John Norton, and
the body in the Albert Park lagoon as one of the
temporary excitements of the moment; he doesn’t
really get to their height, but he gets part of
the way. And he is backed by Tommy Walker,
once of N.S. W., who has had a little shooting
experience—his “ gun ” went off by accident once
and nearly killed a parson—and so may be of use
when the revolution starts. Meanwhile, the
Commonwealth just goes on its way and takes no
notice. It has no time for Monger, or Banger,
or Mongrel from the old town that is lighted by
kerosene. When the fly on the window-pane
announces that it is going to secede, the house-
holder usually takes no notice.
4- * * *
The Commonwealth Parliament is now com-
pleting its sixth year. With all drawbacks and
all disadvantages, it has been a magnificent
success. There are many things that it should
have done, which are still waiting, but its pace,
all the same, has been faster than that of any
State Legislature. Despite the antics and gyra-
tions of a little knot of disorderly screamers, it
has, on the whole, preserved a dignity than some
of the State Legislatures sadly lack. It has shown
—or most of its members have —a large Aus-
tralian patriotism which has never been known in
this country’s politics before, and it has set a
lofty example to certain clawing, scrambling, un-
dignified little State Assemblies, which example
seems rather to irritate them than otherwise. The
Australian Parliament is the one political institu-
tion of this country which—despite the things it
has left undone—Australia can be proud of all the
time; everything else in politics can be spared—
even Monger. The alleged grievances of the
parochialists and the Secesh push are themselves
the Parliament’s best advertisement.
* * * • .
There are grievance-mongers in every com-
munity. The first reason set forth why Australia
required Federation was that union would
facilitate trade by establishing a uniform tariff,
and the uniform tariff came. Just before Federa-
tion N.S.W. was raising £1 ss. 7d. per head
annually in tariff revenue, while Queensland raised
£3 6s. sd. and Westralia £5 9s. 2d. A uniform
tariff—the uniform tariff that the States were crying
out for —if it struck an average, must increase the
revenue in one place and reduce it in others. N.S.W.
got much more revenue than before, and spent
it all on itself; and some unreasoning fools
talked Secesh because of the “ heavy and needless
burdens placed on the backs of the people.” And
yet N.S. W., while it was alleged to be needlessly
taxed to provide itself with superfluous income,
was, and still is, borrowing enormously, on the
ground that it hasn’t enough revenue, and so can’t
build its public works without loans. Tasmania,
on the other hand, lost revenue ; it paid less and
received less than under the old State system. It
didn’t talk of a “heavy and needless burden”
being taken off the backs of the people ; it wept
about being “ robbed.” It sent sundry Foreign-
traders to Parliament to demand low duties,
and denounced Parliament when it got them.
Queensland was in a similiar position. Another
and a still greater benefit that the States cried
out for when the Commonwealth was in process of
construction was the removal of the barriers to
trade created by inter-State duties, and, when
they got that, parish politicians rose in all direc-
tions to say that they were ruined by the loss of
inter-State revenue. The first thing demanded
of the Australian Parliament was that it should
abolish inter-State duties without the loss of inter-
state revenue, and that it should create a
uniform tariff, which would yield £1 ss. 7d. per
head in one State and £5 9s. 2d. in another. It
didn’t attempt these impossibilities, and influen-
tial State insects said gravely to other insects that
Federation was a disappointment.
* * * »
Then incompetent State Treasurers began to
find that “ Federal extravagance ” was a handy
lie with which to explain their deficits. The
Australian Government has been economical
almost to meanness, but it has no loan money to
spend, therefore it has to build post-offices, tele-
graphs, and other works out of revenue, and it
must spend something, though the parochial
insects appear to think differently. N.S.W.,
under an Economical and Deform Ministry,
scatters fully £3,000,000 a year more on its State
business than exactly the same business cost about
the year 1899, and it is in the State which permits
this frenzied and loony throwing of money over-
board by its State Government that the cry about
“Federalextravagance” has been loudest. It was
also loud in Tasmania, where the Treasurer has just
risen with the biggest surplus in his hand that
the island has seen for years, to say that the place
is “ ruined ”or something to that effect. A few
months ago, a great and particular fool, who has
a seat in the N.S.W. Upper House, and is a fair
sample of State legislative intelligence, tried hard
to start a Secesh movement because the Common-
wealth hadn’t taken over the railways, which he
well knew it had no power to do; and the Sydney
daily papers gave him all the space that he
demanded for his ravings. There have been
attempts to create another Secesh movement in
N.S.W. because of the “ neglect of the Australian
Parliament to select a site for the Australian
capital.” Seeing that it selected a site two years
ago—one that complies absolutely with the spirit
and letter of the Constitution, and which is in a
locality offered by the N.S.W. Government
and recommended by the N.S.W. Government’s
specially-appointed expert as the best one he could
find—and the only obstacle to a settlement is
the childish and truculent refusal of the N.S.W.
Deform Parliament to surrender the site, this
ranks as Secesh’s record lie. Likewise there are
alleged grievances because the Australian Parlia-
ment hasn’t started a system of agricultural
immigration when it hasn’t an acre of land to put
immigrants on; because it thinks of imposing a
graduated land-tax to break up big estates, and
thus make agricultural immigration possible;
because it hasn’t taken over the State debts which
the State Treasurers wouldn’t part with ; because
it proposes an amendment of the Constitution to
make the compulsory taking over of these debts
possible; because there are three parties in the
House, as there are in every State Legislature ;
and because of many other etceteras.
* * * *
The present grievance in Westralia is that that
State wants its transcontinental railway built
instantly, and chiefly at the cost of N.S.W. and
Victoria. The Bulletin believes enthusiastically
in both the transcontinental railways ; it not only
believes that they should be built and owned by
the Commonwealth, but that all the railways of
Australia and Tasmania should be owned by the
Commonwealth. But that, at present, is a side
issue. Westralia never built the line when it was
a separate State ; it didn’t even manage to secure
South Australia’s consent to the building of it,
and hasn’t done so to this day. It doesn’t offer
to put up any special donation of its own towards
a line from which it will secure the chief benefit.
The Bill providing for a survey of the route for
the proposed line was passed by the House of
Reps—the House which is dominated by N.S.W.
and Victoria. It was temporarily lost in the
Senate —the House of States, in which Westralia
has the same voting power as its larger neigh-
bors, and which is not dominated by N.S.W. and
Victoria. This momentary set-back is hardly
sufficient to justify any spoiled western infant in
talking treason and rebellion, yet Westralian
politicians seem to have gone so utterly crazy that
even the bulky Premier is reported as breaking
out like this
Replying- to a deputation which waited on him last
week to ask for a grant to the National Rifle Association,
the Premier of Westralia said that it was a Common-
wealth matter entirely. The fact was that the State of
W.A. was being robbed on all hands by the Federal
people, and he did not feel justified in relieving the latter
of any of their financial obligations.
Possibly Newton Moore will arise and explain
that he was misreported, or something to that
effect. If he wasn’t misreported, then his state-
ment is a lie and a malicious slander, and New-
ton Moore is a liar and a calumniator.
* * * *
Most Australians have long since got the
measure of the handful of Secesh politicians, and
of the politicians with perennial grievances and
tales of alleged Federal “wrongs.” Some of
them are mere Judkinses and Worralls—sen-
sation-mongers and self-advertisers. Some of
them are crude blunderers like and
Newton Moore, who have muddled their own
political business almost to a standstill, and
who find any kind of alleged Federal grievance a
convenient means of diverting attention. Ihis is
an old device ; the idea of shifting the responsi-
bility, and passing on the blame, and saying that
the other fellow did it, had its first recorded
beginning in Genesis, and the art of violently
changing the subject—when it is an awkward
subject—is mentioned in Acts, where the people
called out irrelevantly for two hours, “Great is
Diana of the Ephesians.” Another set of mal-
contents are petty State politicians, too small for
Federal politics, too small even for State politics
if it were not that the bigger men are away now
in the Federal arena. These minnows are morti-
fied, now that they have got into the local politi-
cal tank, to find that, owing to the removal of many
large questions to the Australian Parliament,
their tank isn’t so large and conspicuous as it
used to be. They want the tank made the old
size, with a firm conviction that they only require
the old size of tank and the old limelight
to develop into public whales of the dimen-
sions of Griffith, Parkics, Berry, Kingston,
Forrest, and other conspicuous fish that
also grew in the State tank when it was
bigger than it is now. And among other
Secesh men are a few old Tories, who want black
labor; a few monstrous land-grabbers, who are
afraid of a Federal graduated land-tax ; a few
commercial men, who are maddened at the passing
of a Federal law to make commerce honest (actually
honest ); a handful of Sydney importers, who
would rather tear up Australia than have the Aus-
tralian capital anywhere save where all the trade
will come to Sydney ; a loud person, who seems to
have a capital site to dispose of ; and some deafen-
ing preachers, who reckon that unless we freely
admit Chinese the curse of the Almighty will fall
upon us in a heap. Australia in general cares not
a straw for any or all of these. It would rather
hang the whole crowd than part with one iota of
the blessings it gained when it accomplished
Federation. It realises that, despite all draw-
backs and failures, six years of union have done
more for Australia than all the previous half-
century of little snarling State politics, and even
if it had to keep its Commonwealth together at
the price of gory civil war, it reckons that the
price would not be too great. The only reason
why it tolerates Mongers and such-like insects is
that it doesn’t know they are really alive. It will
probably be a cold day for Monger and his kind
if Australia is forced to become aware that they
are alive.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Joseph and His Reform Finance.
Though the N.S. Wales railways panned out very
well last year, and showed a few thousands to the
good, there is a heap of trouble waiting in the
future when normal, or something worse than
normal, seasons swing back again. In the past 10
years 859 miles of line have been opened—which
means that there is now over a third more than
there was 10 years ago. Most of that extra
third is through country which is nearly all sand
and dead rabbit; and it takes an awful lot of sand
and dead rabbit to pay interest on £6,773,869,
which is the amount that has been put into these
mostly-OwE’SuLLiVAN railways. Last year saw
something extra in the way of railway revenue;
and yet the net earnings per train mile were only
3s. 3d., which is less than they were for years
before the Owe’Sullivan started to splash round
money in the wilderness. For instance: —
1894 .. 3s. sd. I 1897 .. 3s. s|d.
1895 .. 3s. sid. 1898 .. 3s. 4Jd.
1896 .. 3s. 3id. | 1899 .. 3s. 3|d
As a rule, the new lines will be the first to feel
the pinch of poor seasons, because they crawl
through country which has bad seasons almost as
a habit; but the £254,000 of interest which the
new lines involve won’t shrink even in the poorest
season. Under the circumstances the only
reasonable thing to do with the railway surplus in
a fat year is to pay off debt with it and write
down the railway capital to match ; and, if the
same process went on for seven years (if such a
thing can be conceived), the capital wouldn’t be
written down any too much. But Carruthers,
instead of doing that, grabs the railway surplus,
uses it to make a halo for himself, and takes care
that it doesn’t happen again by knocking
£150,000 off what are already the lowest
rates for railway carriage. In every one
of the previous four years there had been a
heavy railway deficit; in that period the N.S.W.
taxpayer has subsidised the “great natural re-
sources,” which were the things that were carried
at the unprofitable rates, to the extent of
£1,102,339. Instead of writing down the railway
capital out of profits when they happen to arrive,
and thus permanently reducing by a trifle the
standing charges and making the chances of
railway deficits a little less certain, Carruthers
“blevvs” the profit, leaves the capital and the
standing charges where they were, and, to make
future deficits doubly sure, cuts down the sources
of revenue. In other words, instead of making a
permanent reduction of railway rates or taxation
possible, Carruthers does the thing which makes
the ultimate increase of one or both inevitable.
The Blackmailer and the Sweep.
Of late the blackmailing horse-owner has become
so outrageous in his exactions that one would
almost think some kind of revolt must be at hand.
The person he blackmails is, of course, the holder
of the ticket on his horse in Tattersall’s sweep.
For some reason or other Tattersall’s leaks like
a sieve or a bottomless pit, and the names of the
drawers of horses appear to be almost every-
body’s property. Certainly they appear to be, in
almost every case, the property of the blackmail-
ing horse-owner. This individual began by ask-
ing for a good deal. Then he asked for a deuce
of a lot. Now he demands almost everything.
Quite recently a horse with a very fine chance was
scratched because the holder of the ticket in
Tatt.’s wouldn’t undertake to give three-fourths of
the prize to the cormorant with the neddy, and yet
that cormorant wasn’t putting up a record by any
means. Three-fourths is quite an ordinary demand
nowadays, and in a race of some importance it is
the usual thing to find that almost every
horse that has a chance is running on blackmail
principles. (The owner of the imaginary horse
that is invented to advertise a patent medicine,
of course, doesn’t expect to be squared, and there
area few others, but very few.) The man who
sends his little subscription to Tattersall’s these
times begins his career of trouble in this way. He
pays Id. for a postal note, 2d. (probably) for a
stamp to carry the note to its destination, 2d. for
the return of his ticket, 2d. for result, 2d. tax to
the Tasmanian Government. Therefore, he starts
by paying ss. 9d. for a ss. ticket. Then 10 per
cent, of the prize money goes to Tattersall, so
the investor pays ss. 9d. for a chance worth 4s. 6d.
Cash prizes and horses that don’t start leave no
opening for blackmail, but all the big prizes do,
and when the plunder that is attached to them is
allowed for, it probably becomes a question of
paying ss. 9d. for a chance worth half-a-crown.
The chance isn’t nearly good enough at the
price, and when the public begins to realise
this it will he a cold day for Tatter-
Sall. Of course ticket-holders need not be
blackmailed unless they like, just as no one need
be swindled if he is bright enough to avoid being
swindled. If they unanimously told the horse-
owner to scratch his horse, and go to the alleged
person with the cloven hoofs and the tail, the
result might be that, for a year or two, every im-
portant race in Australia would be won by a cart-
horse, or a cripple, or a cow, but racing would
still go on, and the sport would be a great deal
cleaner. But the community has to deal with
things as they are, and the fact remains that,
except in rare instances, the ticket-holder parts
with half or three-fourths of his chance to get a
run for the pathetically small balance. The
common excuse of the horse-owning cormorant is
that no harm is done to the ticket-holder ; that it
is better for him to get £lOOO out of a £4OOO prize
than the mere next-to-nothing that is paid
for a non-starter, and that if, by reason
of the blackmail, the horse starts and wins
when it otherwise wouldn’t start at all, he
has made an actual profit. This is almost
too thin a lie to be worth considering. It is
based on the theory that unless every owner got
a share of the sweep money every horse would be
scratched every time, and there would never be
any race, and that Tattersall would then con-
fiscate the first three prizes and the starters’
money—which is the sort of theory that only a
very cheeky cormorant would put up. If the
whole blackmailing system were abolished, some
horse would still start, and some ticket-holder
would get the big prize in full. At present the
owner of the fast horse generally scratches it, and
sacrifices entrance fees, etc., also the chance of the
prize and of any money he might make in bets, if
the ticket-holder won’t come to his terms; he
reckons the loss is worth while just for once as a
warning to ticket-holders in general, and as a
means of keeping the blackmail system in working
order. But if the blackmail system were stopped,
and that kind of owner had either to sacrifice
entrance fees, training expenses, prizes and bets
every time, or else run his horses without the black-
mail money, he would run his horses without the
blackmail money. There are two visible remedies
for the evil. The first is for the Attorney-
General’s department to start on the track of
the horse cormorant, and get him six months
or more in gaol, like any other man who exacts
money by threats. This ought to be possible,
for the blackmailer has become so reckless
that he hardly attempts to disguise his pro-
ceedings. Some little time ago one of the tribe
was actually favored with a paragraph in the
allegedly respectable Launceston (Tas.) Daily
Telegraph; it was headed, “Sweep Money
Wanted,” and informed the drawers of the tickets
on two horses that, unless they came along with
the bribe, or the blackmail, the animals would be
scratched. Another remedy is for the Tasmanian
Parliament, which supervises Tattersall, to see
that no sweep is drawn till the morning of the
race, and so leave the horse cormorant no time
for negotiation ; or else to cut the irrelevant horse
element out of the sweep altogether, and make it
a cash gamble pure and simple. What use the
horse element is in the lottery heaven only knows.
When ticket No. 10, which draws Swindle, the
animal that wins the Welsher’s Cup, is nominally
worth £6OOO, the drawer nowadays is lucky if he
gets anything over £2OOO ; but if the same ticket
simply drew first prize direct, without the cir-
cuitous intervention of a beast of a horse, the
drawer would get the whole £6OOO, and he would
get it at once, instead of waiting for weeks till
the Welsher’s Cup is run. Apparently it is no
use expecting Tattersall to do anything in the
matter. That institution seems to consider the
horse-owner first, and the public, out of which it
makes its money, not at all.
Butler’s Gratitude.
Butler, a member of the just-dissolved softgoods
firm of Sargood, Butler, Nichol, and Ewen,
was given a send-off a few days ago by his brother
importers in Melbourne; and, in responding to
the toast of his health, he remarked that “Aus-
tralia had been very good to him,” and he was
correspondingly grateful. Sargood and Co., who
have branches in every State, and in Maoriland
as well, probably drag more fluff and general
drapery from the four corners of the world to
Australia than any other firm ; and the splendid
fortunes made by the members of the co. have
been built up out of the profits obtained on the
imported spring bonnet, and the imported man-
tle, and the imported kid gloves; also, from the
profits on the imported blanket, and the imported
tweed, all of which are sometimes good, and
sometimes shoddy, but which every time return a
profit to the importer. Taking them by and large,
it seems tolerably certain that the profits made by
dragging imported drapery to this continent are,
on the whole, larger and more uniform than those
made out of any other form of industry, so
that Butler’s gratitude is not misplaced.
Surely, however, it is time for Australia
to be “good ”to itself. The coming elections will
give practically every elector a chance to be good
to his own country and his own kin by voting
for a high-tariff candidate. Fortunately, there
will be very few constituencies where there is no
such candidate standing, and even in these few the
electors will be able to vote for good Protectionists
for the Senate. The necessity for returning strong
Protectionist Senators is most pronounced, as
at present there is a strong leaven of Foreign-
trade in the States House. This paper has no objec-
tion to Australia being good to Butler, and Sar-
good, and even to M “Million (though some of
them don’t deserve it); but it wants Australia to
take a turn at being good to itself by providing
its sons and daughters with work, instead of
sending its money abroad by the ship-load to
provide work for foreigners, and incidentally
importer’s profits for Butler and M ‘Million.
To help these people may be philanthropy, but it
isn’t good business, and it isn’t patriotic. In fact,
it is such muddle-headed fooli.\£mess that The
Bulletin has begun to think that the people—
except those vitally interested, such as Butler—
who advocate Foreign-trade are subsidised by
Kaiser William or somebody.
A Maoriland Pension Scheme.
The scheme of so-called national annuities, which
Richard Seddon had revolving in his mind
during the last few years of his life, has been
crystallised by his successor, Joseph Ward, and
put into a Bill. This Bill briefly describes itself
as a measure “to encourage the making of pro-
vision for old age.” The pension business is to
be financed and managed by the State Insurance
Department, so the scheme has presumably been


drafted upon that experienced and successful
office’s calculations. But it is more than a matter
of drv actuarial science. That is the skeleton ;
most interest attaches to the clothing which the
State proposes to hang about it in the shape of
subsidies. It is mainly in respect to those subsidies
that the scheme differs from an ordinary insurance
proposal. Certainly, apart from the subsidies,
the State proposes to receive contributions upon
terms which the ordinary insurance office would
not look at. Thus a man may put a spare £1 into
the fund at any time, for his own benefit or some-
one else’s. Follow such a£l deposit. If the payer
has a child five years old, that £1 will earn for the
youngster a payment of 9s. 4d. at 60, and the same
every year thereafter as long as he lives (provided
there "have been enough other pounds invested
to bring the total annuity up to £l3 a year, that
being the minimum annuity that the department
will pay). Or at 60 the beneficiary may draw £6
4s 3d. in cash for each £l. If only as a system by
which another lot of the public may learn the
strength of compound interest, it has its value ;
it may help them to understand, for instance, the
advantages of a sinking fund for wiping out the
public debt. If the youngster for whose benefit
the £1 was lodged dies before he is 60, the
£1 is returned, with 3 per cent, compound
interest. Suppose he dies at 50, the spare £l,
lodged 45 years before, and not noticed, will be
worth about £3 17s. 9d. to his widow. Or an
annual payment of £1 from age 20 will earn an
annuity of £6 3s. 4d. from age 60, with the same
provisions as to repayment in case of earlier death.
That, standing alone, is no better than almost any
good life assurance society will do for an insurer ;
for an annual payment of £1 from age 20 the
A.M.P. will pay £lO a year without profits on
male lives from age 60, as against the Maoriland
scheme’s payment of £6 3s. 4d. But, while there
appears to be therefore nothing very enticing
about the skeleton of the Maoriland scheme,
judged by this case—while, in short, the actuarial
basis is probably too conservative, and less
is promised than ought to be possible—
the State, in order “to encourage the
making of provision for old Age,” under-
takes an elaborate system of subsidies, which
alters the look of the benefits altogether.
The biggest factor in the matter of these subsidies
in the size of the contributor’s family. If a con-
tributor is married and has five children living,
the benefit is subsidised to the extent of 25 per
cent. So, if his own contribution earns a benefit
of £6 3s. 4d. according to scale, this man would
get an extra £llos. lOd. as a sort of State recogni-
tion of his services in the matter of the birth-rate.
Other subsidies may be added; the man who
makes “persistent” payments, the man who
belongs to a registered friendly society, the man
who makes provision for old age in spite of poor
earnings, all have a trifle added ; so thata widow or
widower, earning under £156 per annum, a friendly
society member, and a “persistent” contributor
may get the maximum of 50 per cent, added to the
benefits which his or her own contributions would
bring in. This simply means that, in proportion
as a person is likely to need “ charity ” in his old
age, the State is prepared to make payments to
encourage him to avoid the need of it; and
that ought to be a first-class State investment.
Whether, however, the benefits as set out in the
tables are liberal enough to attract the public, is
doubtful. Take the case of payments of £1 a year
starting at 25, the annuity starting at 60. This
scheme offers an annuity of £4 17s. 3d. in that
case. The Colonial Mutual offers a with-profit
annuity of £3 18s. 5d., and assurance meantime of
£lOO, for the same £1; and that appears to be a
much more liberal proposition. The A.M.P.
offers females £lO for £1 9s. sd. a year (males are
offered more ; but the less favorable figures are
taken, as the Maoriland scheme applies to both
sexes). The A.M.P. thus offers £6 15s. lOd. for £l,
as against the Maoriland scheme’s £4l7s. 3d. Even
if a rare contributor accumulated 12 children and
the other virtues which earn a 50 per cent, sub-
sidy, the annual benefit would only amount to
£7 ss. 10gd., as against the society’s unsubsidised
£6 15s. 10d., paid whether the virtues have been
accumulated or not. Certainly the State offers
other advantages : no medical examination, return
of premiums with compound interest in the event
of death before the annuity starts, and five years
annuity to be paid in any case if the annuity is
once drawn. But the absence of medical exami-
nation in annuity business doesn’t count as an
advantage, and existing insurance offices offer the
other advantages. Practically, therefore, the
public has, for many years, had the oppor-
tunity of getting, in many cases, larger benefits
than those now offered, and in most cases
equal benefits, and it has not rushed for them.
It seems quite possible for the State to offer much
larger benefits for the premiums demanded ; and
with the subsidies on top of those benefits, the
public may come in. But even then it is doubtful
whether the hopes of the founders will be realised.
What is really called for is a national scheme of
insurance->-a universal system of pensions—such
as at least one European country has had for
many years in successful practice. That would
root up the odious idea that the old-age pension
is a “charity,” and nothing else seems likely to
do it, nor does any other scheme hold out much
hope of covering the whole ground.
♦
The N.S.W. North Coast Railway.
The N.S.W. Government threatens to make
another effort to get authority to build the North
Coast railway, and if it would only go a step
further, and decide to pay for the work out of
revenue, the idea would be wholly admirable.
Built out of revenue, and with no interest to pay,
it is reckoned the line would show a profit of
£60,000 a year; built out of 3i per cent, loans it is
expected to show a loss, to begin with, of £31,000.
But if the big estates are broken up and land
settlement pushed on vigorously, there should be
no loss. The opponents of the line complain
that it must show a loss because it will have to
carry goods at cut rates “to compete with sea
traffic,” but there is no special reason why it
should. There is hardly a reliable harbor on the
N.S.W. North Coast. Almost every one is kept
open in a precarious sort of way by the expenditure
of huge sums of public money. This money isn’t
charged to the sea traffic ; if the steamboat com-
panies had to pay for keeping harbors open for their
use, and passed the charge along to their cus-
tomers, sea traffic wouldn’t be especially cheap.
It is cheap solely because of the immense indirect
subsidy which it receives. When the railway is
built this subsidy should cease. If the bar-bound
ports are to be kept open, each port should be
debited with the cost of its maintenance, and, out
of every £ paid for freight or passage, the State
should take a proportion sufficient to meet that
cost. This would probably double the cost of sea
traffic,but it would be strictly fair ; and if, after the
sea traffic had paid its way, as the railway traffic has
to do, it could still undersell the railways it would be
fairly entitled to do so. Small ports, which won’t
pay for keeping open, should simply be left to the
care of Nature. There is no sense in the idea that
the State should build a railway, and then go on
spending hundreds of thousands of pounds to
indirectly subsidise private shipping companies
that they may make that railway unprofitable, and
the off-hand assumption that the State will go on
doing this as a matter of course shows the irri-
tating habit Private Enterprise has acquired of
taking State aid for granted.
Electoral Organisation.
The campaign in N.S.W. for the Australian
cause at the coming Federal elections, already
drifts into muddle. In all sorts of places are
turning up candidates whose chance is hopeless,
and whose candidature must assist the anti-Sosh
cause. In some places where, with organisation,
there is good promise of defeating a Tory Foreign-
trader, no move is being made. What needs to
be recognised on the Australian side—Protec-
tionist and Laborite—is that the defeat of a
Reidite should be the main purpose of every fight.
The Protectionist party and the Labor party are
united on that point. A sensible, mutual agree-
ment on their part is suggested by every reason
of principle and expediency. In an electorate
where a Laborite has the best chance of dispossess-
ing a Tory, the Protectionist should stand down.
Where the Protectionist is likely to score more
votes than the Laborite, the Labor party should
give way. By that means the gain to each
party is likely to be larger. If Labo rites and
Protectionists hack at one another’s throats, they
will only help along the cause of anti-Sosh.
At present, in several constituencies, there is
promise of a split vote. In Werriwa, the Labor
party has had a promising candidate out for some
time ; the Protectionists now propose to rush in
with a man of their own, and thus make the
awful Conroy’s seat safe. In South Sydney, the
same thing is threatened. For the Senate, the
Labor party proposes a hopeless group of three.
One, bunched with two Protectionists, would have
a hope. With a little common sense and give-
and-take negotiation, the respective “ spheres of
influence” of the two wings of the Progressive
party could be delimited, and a joint bunch put up
for the Senate. Wentworth (represented by
Motor-Kid Kelly), Cowper (by Lee), New
England (by Lonsdale), Macquarie (by Pumpkin
SMitH), North Sydney (by Dugald Thomson)
are emphatically seats that the Labor party can-
not win, and which it might try to help the
Protectionists to win. In Parramatta (repre-
sented by the shrill Cook), South Sydney (which
Edwards drops), Illawarra (at present infested
by Fuller), the Hunter (held by Liddell), and
Dailey (pervaded by Weary Wilks) the Labor
party seems to have the better show, and the
Protectionists should not interfere. In those 10
constituencies . agreement is clearly necessary.
About Werriwa (Conroy) and Robertson (Willis)
there is some doubt as to which banner would be
the best to fight under. A friendly conference
could easily settle the point. The first necessity
is to recognise that Reidism is the common
enemy, to be fought unitedly by both sections of
the Australian party, and fought for all they are
worth.
Another S. Australian “ Crisis.”
The eternal trouble over the Legislative Council
franchise has made another crisis in S. Australia,
if anything that is received with such blank in-
difference can be called a crisis. The fact is that
S. Australia is bored with State politics, and pre-
fers to look for salvation to almost anything else —
to its churches, its chapels, its Christian En-
deavor Societies. Above all things, it wants to
be “respectable,” and it is desperately afraid of
being extreme. Hence, when it has a “ crisis”
it is generally over some such question as
whether waggon-tyres should be 4in. or sin.
wide, and the thing is compromised by
making them ln those circumstances it
isn’t remarkable that there is no bite about
a S. Australian crisis. The present trouble
is a good deal of that sort. The question is
whether the Legislative Council franchise should
be £2O or £l5 rental qualification. The qualifica-
tion now is £25; the Assembly reduced it to £l5 ;
the Council threw that proposal out, but subse-
quently showed that it might have agreed to £2O,
or perhaps £l7 ss. 4|d. When the Assembly
scorned that, and, through its “ managers,” argued
with the Council’s “ managers” for three days, a
majority of the latter said they might make it
£l6. So a crisis has arisen over this boggle. Cer-
tainly there is a Constitutional question at the
bottom, but the practical point which the public
sees is this miserable squabble whether a person
who lives in a £l5 house, or only one who lives m
a house worth £l6 or £2O a year, should be a
Legislative Council elector. As the natural result
of S. Australia’s horror of going the whole hog,
even this matter might have been compromised
in fact, certainly would have been compromised
if the Council had not insisted that this wretched
question, in which ha’pence and the franchise are
mixed up, should, before being finally settled, be
remitted to the Council electors who live in £25
a-year premises. The Council said that most of
its members were pledged to the present £25
franchise ; therefore it couldn't give way without
violating its pledges. The Assembly said that,
in that case, it would agree to an immediate
referendum (still of the people who live in £25-a-
-year premises) to ascertain whether the £25-a-year
people would not release the Councillors from
their pledge. The Council said that the referen-
dum should be taken at the Council election, 18
months ahead, and that it should be final. The
Assembly replied that an appeal to the people
who live in £25-a-year premises, and who, in S.
Australia, represent only two-sevenths of the
Assembly electors, could not possibly be accepted
as final on a Constitutional question. And
so there is a deadlock, with a dissolution in
the immediate future. The trouble, however,
will be that when the Assembly comes back from
the country, with an assurance that people who
live in £l5-a-year places ought to have a vote for
the Council, it will find the same old Council
waiting for it with the same old alleged conscience
tied up with the same old pledge to the same old
£25-a-year householders. A whole-hogger would
go to the country, not splitting pence on a fran-
chise question, but for authority to begin a fight
for the extinction of the Legislative Council. In
a quarrel of that size, S. Australia might be
aroused to some warmth; and the chances are
that it would then be found to be a good deal
easier to sweep away the whole encum-
brance than to scrape a miserable 40s.
off the value of the premises which are
supposed to qualify a person for expressing an
opinion on the State’s affairs. Meantime, in the
poor little situation that S. Australia has made for
itself, the Assembly elector ought to keep his eye
glued on one fact: Every vote cast against the
Price-Peake Labor-Liberal Ministry and its
supporters in this quarrel is a vote cast in favor of
handing over the Government to two-sevenths of
the people. The Council, which, being a mere
chamber of review, should never have made any
pledges at all, insisted on a question of franchise
being finally determined by two-sevenths of the
Assembly electors. If S. Australia is not pre-
pared for a whole-hog policy of Council extinction,
let it vote on that—let the Assembly electors say
whether they favor the disfranchisement of five-
sevenths of themselves. If they don’t, then the
Price-Peake Government should get all their
votes.
Acclimatisation in Maoriland.
“ Benicia ” writes in sorrow :
The Bulletin (23/8/’O6) has the thanks of all patriotic
Maorilanders for its exposure of the abuse of acclimatisa-
tion in Maoriland. To acclimatisation itself, pursued
rationally and primarily for the benefit of Maorilanders
themselves (and not for the tourist), and subordinated to
the interests of native fauna and flora, there is no objec-
tion. It is against the present wholesale abuse of it that
the objection lies. Native game is protected by the
societies simply that it may become plentiful enough to
give the tourist an opportunity to slaughter it. In this
beknighted country everything must give way to the
tourist, with his padded calves and vacant stare. The
tourist is ruining the independence of the Swiss. The
Maorilander will have to see to it that he doesn’t go the
same way. . .
Rotorua is the hot-bed of tounstism, and the popula-
tion seems to exist to serve the tourist. A year or two
back the Rotorua Maoris made an impassioned appeal to
Seddon not to allow any more trout to be liberated in
Lake Rotorua. It was the one place left where the native
fish (which, poor and all as they are, the Maori loves with
something more than the mere prompting of his stomach)
had not been practically eaten up by the voracious trout.
But the appeal was in vain. The acclimatisator gave
his view, which was accepted, and the Maori sees the last
of his fish.
To import bunny was bad enough. The stoat and the
weasel imported to exterminate him are worse (I have
known several cases where they have actually chased
children five and six years old). Now that stoats and
weasels have turned up their noses at such poor meat as
bunny, and ave working havoc with the native birds, it is
proposed by one Rutherfoiid—member of the House for
Hurunui —to import something worse still (the ferret) to
worry bunny. It is all Australia to a Jap’s word of
honor that the ferret will do as his smaller brethren have
done—leave bunny alone in his glory, and help to de-
populate the country of native bird life. When he gets
down into South Westland there will be no getting at
him, and it will be left to a future generation of Maoi-i-
-landers to curse those responsible for his presence.
The nonsensical business is not confined to animals.
What of the thousands upon thousands of acres being
gradually ruined, and the thousands of pounds being
spent on clearing the land of its imported vegetable
pests? The blackberry, the gorse, and the thistle—to
mention only three of the innumerable host—have an
enormous amount of damage to answer for. The sense-
less acclimatisator never seems to reckon that a weed
transplanted from less favorable conditions to the warm,
moist climate and soil of Maoriland may become a pest.
On the Wanganui River the worship of the tourist
is being carried to such lengths that if nothing is done
Wanganui will rise in its wrath and smite the noxious
insect. Way back in the King Country, along the route
of the Main Trunk Railway, are some hundreds of thou-
sands of acres of the finest timber country in Maoriland.
The natural and cheapest way of getting the timber to
the coast is by rafting it down the Wanganui River. But,
notwithstanding that rafting is only carried on in the
autumn and winter months, when the tourist is huddling
his bones over the fire, such is the point to which the
Government crawls to him that rafting is prohibited. It
is feared that some raft might block the way of the
blessed little steamer carrying the blessed little tourist.
The same idioiic policy is being carried out in replant-
ing the bush. The Maorilander is beginning to find out
what a fool he has been in indiscriminately devastating
his bush land. In a feeble sort of way he is beginning to
replant some of the wasted territory—with imported
trees. The kauri—Maoriland’s greatest forest glory—is
within quite measurable distance of extinction, and yet no
attempt whatever is made to conserve the young
trees. Why? Well, it is reckoned that the tourist will
be pleased to see the trees he was accustomed to in
EnoJand. Blow the tourist, and the acclimatisati n
craze, and the whole policy which is turning Maoriland
into a community of cheap imitations and hotel waiters !
♦
The Unborn Population.
Last week, a nurse was arrested on a charge
of having brought about the death of a
girl by the usual means. In the course of pro-
ceedings at the inquest, the arresting detective
swore the prisoner had assured him that this was
the first case to “go wrong ” out of 2000 that had
passed through her hands. The accused may or
may not be innocent ; she may, or may
not, have made the remark; the question
at issue concerns the figures given by the
detective. These statistics, astounding as
they seem to people who do not study
such matters, appear in no wise impossible
to anybody who is possessed of a knowledge of the
average city abortionist in a large way of busi-
ness. There are women in Sydney and Mel-
bourne who have been pursuing the trade of
abortion for over 20 years. Some of them even
carry on their calling by means of large so-called
private hospitals, and 200 a year would be a con-
siderable under-estimate of the number of opera-
tions performed by the more prosperous. In
addition, there is a handful of qualified medical
practitioners who amass what the average man
would regard as huge fortunes out of the practice
of abortion. In a few instances, these carry on
the trade with perfect safety by the simple process
of working in couples. Abortion is an offence only
if carried out by one medical man without reference
to a fellow practitioner —the law assuming that, if
it is necessary to perform abortion to save the life of
a woman, a medical adviser should first have his
opinion confirmed by another member of the pro-
fession. The persons in question either employ a
professional “ confirmer, ” or work mutually and
confirm each other. The result is that they are
perfectly within their legal rights. If death
occurs, a certificate is given, and even the rare
possibility of suspicion is met with the opinion of
the second doctor that the operation was essen-
tial, and represented the only hope of saving the
mother’s life. In certain cases, private hospitals,
carried on in the names of nurses, are really ownfed
by the medical men who perform the operations..
All these things are matters of common know-
ledge, which never reach the ear of the law, and
are ignored by the mass of the right-thinking
public. The enormous trade carried on in this
way was indicated in Melbourne, some weeks
ago, by the remark of a middle-aged mar-
ried woman to her own medical adviser
whom she had vainly besought to “help”
her some months previously. She had found
the assistance he declined in a nurse’s home,
and assured him that in it there were 20
other inmates, “from little kids of sixteen to old
women like me.” Whether it is more humane
under modern social conditions to afford a girl the
opportunity of escaping the consequences of
“shame,” and the already embarrassed married
woman the necessity of feeding another mouth,
is beside the question, as is also the moral
aspect of the case. The prevalence of abor-
tion has to be regarded as a national evil.
Without its aid, the population of Australia would
be much larger than it is to-day. and half this
additional population would consist of well-grown
youths and girls, capable of performing the work
that Australia is going the right way to provide
in another three or four years. The sacrifice of a
large proportion of this valuable life may be
laid directly at the doors of the holy persons
who have always fought tooth and nail
against the proposal to establish foundling
hospitals. The basis of their objection is that
such institutions would encourage “ immorality.
How the absence of them has encouraged
“immorality” is proved by existing condi-
tions. In fact, the multiplication of abortionists
is directly attributable to the decision arrived at
by the older generation of the same Puritans who
are now making Australia hideous with their yelp-
ing. In, perhaps, one-third of the cases treated
the aim of the mother is to suppress the publica-
tion of “ immorality ” which the birth of a child
certainly brings about. In perhaps another third
the mothers are married women who would
in very few cases care to take advantage of a
foundling hospital. But in probably a full thiid
of the instances, the mothers would gladly bear
their children if they could be assured that they
would be decently fed and clothed later on. The
plight of a poor girl—a domestic servant or factory
hand—with a superfluous infant is one of the
most pitiful pictures that civilisation presents.
To leave it to the mercies of a registered nurse
means that the mother has no margin of earnings
left for her own maintenance, and it also
frequently means the speedy death of the
infant from dirt and starvation. Yet to
obtain a situation with a child is, in most
cases, a practical impossibility. To this class
of girl the foundling hospital would apply
immediately. A good many members of the first-
mentioned class would be reached by the estab-
lishment of an adjunct institution to receive any
woman in time of confinement, rvithout asking her
name or any other question, and, if so desired, to
transfer her child, with every provision for future
identification, to the foundling hospital. The girl
with friends and some social standing would go
there in secret, if she could, invent a sufficiently
plausible lie to account for her absence from home,
and even a plausible lie is better than child-
murder. Of course, in Australia, or in any other
country, this sort of thing would make the ille-
gitimacy statistics mount up enormously on paper,
but they would be no greater in reality—they might
even be less. It would be a case of removing the
whitewash from the outside of the sepulchre. But
the moral crowd, which opposes the establishment
of foundling hospitals and similar institutions,
is dreadfully anxious to keep the outside of the
sepulchre glaring like a boiled shirt or snowball.
♦
Disaster teaches its lessons. The Tory and anti-
Socialist ’Frisco Argonaut, after an experience of
welshing fire insurance cos., makes these re-
marks :
We are not aware that any European Government has
added fire insurance to its system of life insurance. We
know of no reason why it should not prove practicable.
Looked at superficially, it would seem not only prac-
ticable but highly desirable. Take our own country, for
example. The United States has a population of eighty
millions ; San Francisco had a population of four hundred
thousand ; San Francisco’s claims for fire damages from
the insurance companies are, let us say, about two hun-
dred million dollars. Thus the comparatively small sum
of two and a-half dollars per capita on the population of
the entire country would reimburse San Francisco for
its losses. The small fire insurance premiums paid by
the eighty millions to the General Government would
more than recoup the Federal Treasury for San Fran-
cisco’s losses. Of the many things which have been sug-
gested as suited for Government control, that of life
insurance seems to us the most fitting. Next to 'that,
perhaps, may come fire insurance.
“ Two Seas ” airs a grievance :
The knowledge that The Bulletin is always ready to
give publicity to a case of hardship prompts me to put
the following facts before the editor. lam the holder
of an annual lease Which is as bare of grass as an egg,
consequently my sheep are starving. At any moment
some accursed selector may come along and take this
land from under my sheep’s trotters, leaving them sus-
pended on nothing, and browsing on the atmosphere, so
to speak. Very well, then. Knowing that my sheep will
die if they are deprived of the grass that isn’t there, I
applied to the N.S.W. Lands Department to'grant me a
28 years’ lease of this land that is liable at any moment
to 'disappear, as it were, under its present insecure
tenure. I pointed out to the Department that an emi-
nent authority has stated, as a fact, that a 28 years’ lease
is capable of feeding 20,000,000 sheep, and that at least
6,000,000 have been saved to the country by merely
sniffing at a lease from a great distance. Now I could
fatten my little lot fit for Homebush on the same fodder ;
but the stupid Department is afraid of the eminent autho-
rity, and affects not to understand how the grass that has
disappeared can be more nourishing when eaten with a
28 years’ lease than with a yearly lease. Such gross
ignorance of pastoral mysteries is simply sickening, and,
although I have offered to pay carriage up on the lease,
my humble application is sternly refused. My sheep
must die, for any man of experience on the land knows
that parchment is one of the most fattening foods in the
country. Even a lawyer knows that much.
The Lane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Flinders-lane is a classic.” — Lane-man ' tuart.
The Lane!
The Classic Lane !
Where the calico murmurs its sweet refrain ;
Where the German socks and the Belgian boots,
And the Hindoo cottons and Jap cheroots,
And everything else that the alien made
Are gathered and piled in its classic shade,
While Australians walk in the streets unfed,
And local industries fall down dead ;
But the rain
Of good gold money for wool and grain
Makes the stomach fat,
Gives gloss to the hat
Of the noble importer who works for gain
In the Lane !
The Lane !
The Colossal Lane !
Where the Kyabrapootra has built its fane !
There are Bosses with big, broad belly and back
In the wonderful mansions around Toorak,
Who preach the doctrines of Freetrade greed.
And shout ovations to G. H. Reid ;
And the golden wealth that should go to make
A nation strong for Australia’s sake
Flows in vain
Through the yawning channel of Flinders Drain ;
For the sleek Hindu
And the Brummagem crew
Are the body and blood and soul and brain
Of the Lane !
The Lane!
The penurious Lane !
Where the weary clerk has his place of pain !
Where “ Wanted, a Boy,” in our times of need
Mocks the muscle and brain of the men we breed ;
Where one pale youth with a scratching pen
Keeps out of employment a hundred men,
And thirty-bob is his weekly screw
While they sell our land to the London Jew !
For the stain
Of sweated labor and callous gain
Eternally stares
From the piled-up wares
That the foreigner sends in an endless train
To the Lane 1
vio.
LAM.


dfg
sdfg
sdf
gs
dfg
GallaherV
jgold
W^ofracco
BEFORE THE
WEDDING.
Her : “ And you
will give up
smoking horrid
tobacco 1 ”
Him : “ Yes, dar-
ling, I’ll stick
to Gallaher’s
Gold Plate."
John Norton.
If Mr. John Norton is wise, he will “take in a
reef.” For years now he has sailed under full
canvas along a course which seemed to threaten
shipwreck at every mile; but the shipwreck never
came. If John Norton cruelly libelled a man no
jury gave redress. If John Norton was charged
with an offence, the jury found him not guilty,
whatever the facts. Even when John Norton
shot at R. D. Meagher, and made no
bones about the fact that he had done
so, the jury cheerfully found that he
hadn’t shot at him. Juries always seemed
to have a notion that if John Norton was
an evil he was a necessary evil, and to be
encouraged. Now there is a different tale to tell.
In the bitter unpleasantness between John
Haynes and John Norton the Haynes John
accused the Norton John of wife-beating, black-
mail, fraud and murder. The Norton John
responded with an action for criminal libel.
The _ jury found against him by majorities
ranging from 9 to 3 to unanimity. It is but
bare justice to say that on some of the charges
there wasn’t a tittle of real evidence against the
Norton John. But the jurymen, who, a few
years ago, would have acted on the general prin-
ciple that John Norton could do no wrong, last
week came to the conclusion that John Norton
had done every wrong. They didn’t ask for
proofs. By 9to 3 they found him guilty of every-
thing. Presumably, if he had been accused
of burning down cathedrals he would have
been found guilty of that too. So the Nor-
ton John should take warning. The atti-
tude of the jury to-day reflects public opinion
just about as accurately as did the decision of the
jury in the Meagher case. If Norton were to be
sued in a civil libel case now, it looks as if the
jury would award the plaintiff £1,000,000 damages,
no matter what his merits. John Norton should
take in a reef.
♦
A conference of State Premiers and politicians
meets this week, at Melbourne, to explain fully to
the Australian Parliament how the financial
arrangements may be put on a correct basis —one
that will satisfy all the States. They are going to
show Deakin how to do the thing in one act.
And, if they will only fix up a workable idea
that will please all the States, the chances
are that Deakin, who must be deadly tired
of these superior State persons, will accept
it with a rush. But it is more probable
that Tasmania will get away with a handful of
S. A.’s hair, and that Queensland will open the
window and throw Westralia’s ear into the back-
yard. Once before, when the superior State per-
sons met to fix up everything, Westralia wasn’t
represented ; therefore, the men from Queensland,
S. A., and Tasmania constituted a majority. That
majority promptly fixed things up. It decided
that the Federal surplus ought to be divided
among the States at so much per head, which
practically meant that about £300,000 a year of
Westralia’s surplus should be divided among
Queensland, S.A., and Tasmania. Then they
wanted to know why the Australian Government
couldn’t solve a little problem like that —it was
quite easy. Meanwhile, there was cursing in the
distance, and outcries about “the robbery of
Westralia by the Federation,” when there was no
robbery at all—only a proposed one, and the Com-
monwealth had nothing to do with the proposal.
Now the Westralian delegates are coming to hold
friendly conference with the States which propose
to rob Westralia, and Premier Newton Moore
spends his time denouncing the Commonwealth
which never proposed any robbery.
-*
Ryott Maughan, M.L.A., was one of the very
few men in Queensland Parliament who showed
his teeth at the Anti-Federal Party during the
Budget debate: —
Mr. Maughan : Victoria has been held up as a sort of
bugbear—a sort of foreign country inhabited by a lot of
Dagos looking for gore. Since Federation was established,
Queensland lias gained considerably over Victoria from a
trade aspect. According to Queensland statistics, pages
47 and 48, the Victorian imports to Queensland during the
year 1904-5 were worth £588,000, whilst Queensland’s ex-
ports to Victoria in the same year were worth no less than
£875,000, a difference in favor of Queensland of £286,000.
It is all very fine to blame Federation for our supposed
troubles ; but Federation has not been responsible for our
stupendous.public debt; it is not responsible for the
enormous amount of interest we have to pay on that debt
every year ; it is not responsible for our reckless extrava-
gance in the past.
It is time a lot of men like Maughan spoke to the
anti-Federalists in this strain. Nowadays every
State fool, blunderer, spendthrift, muddler, and
ass tries to escape the responsibility of his bungling
by laying the blame on the Australian Government
and the Australian Parliament. This policy is
encouraged by soured little crawling things that
are too small to get into Australian politics, and
are hurt at the diminished importance of the
State politics that they are in. And the Austra-
lian Government has no loan money with which
to buy support, and it can’t cadge for votes with
roads and bridges, and it has a Premier who is too
affable to blast these little public insects as they
deserve.
♦
This from a man on the spot:—
The more one considers the Coanf. syndicate proposa
for damming the Goulburn River (Vic.) at Trawool, the
fishier it looks. The beastly public isn’t allowed to know
much of the details, but so far as my inquiries bear fruit
the facts are these:—
Two of the three promoters, J. M. Coane and H. E.
Coane, are constituents of Bent’s. The dam—for particu-
lars see an astonished daily press—will back up water for
20 miles or so, submerging about £500,000 worth of land,
including a township (Yea) where Capting M’Leish, of
the Farm-burners, comes from. It will drown M’Leisii if
he doesn’t get out in time. It will also necessitate a
deviation of the Tallarook-Mansfield railway for about 20
miles, at a cost of £150,000.
The State (Bent is a “ Safe Socialist ”) is to pay for the
land and the deviation. The Coane Co. will build the
dam, impounding practically the whole normal flow of
the river—and thereby controlling the greater part of the
existing irrigation system in the Goulburn Valley and
over the northern plains, and it will use the water just
as it darn well pleases in generating electricity for sale
to private persons and to the railways.
Therefore, when electric railways come to pass, the
State will either have to buy its power from the syndicate
at any price the syndicate chooses to ask, thus making the
State lines to a great extent mere Private Enterprise
lines ; or it will have to buy out the syndicate at a gigantic
profit (to the syndicate)—this after giving the syndicate
a present of a river, and subsidising it to the extent of
£650,000 by paying for the land on which its great puddle
stands, and for the railway deviation which its puddle
rendered necessary; or the State will have to go and
hunt up a site of its own and build its own dam. And
there aren’t many sites, nor is there any great number of
rivers. To give away the best bit of water-power in Victoria
and pay £650,000 for losing it, and then probably have
to pay all the cost of damming up some inferior
stream to get an inferior supply of power as the only
alternative to paying a ruinous price for power from the
river which it gave away (along with £650,000), looks
amazing business.
Still, there is one humorous aspect of the case. Put
the points seriatim
(1) Kyabram helped to create Bent.
(2) Bent spoke with Coane.
(3) Ooane dammed the Goulburn.
(4) The Goulburn, having been dammed by Ooane
(who had spoken with Bent) ceased sending its waters into
Kyabram’s irrigation channels except in flood-times when
Kyabram didn’t need water.
(5) Then arose Kyabram and cursed syndicates, and
Private Enterprise, and Ooane, and especially Bent, and
it withdrew its support from Bent (who had spoken with
Coane), and said it wished he had never been born.
(6) And Bent replied that he didn’t care whether Kya-
bram supported him or not, and that it was dead,
anyhow. ’
Of course, all these things are, as yet, only pro-
posals ; but already Victoria smells a fish-odor on
the horizon, and perceives, with its nose, a rat
rising in the east.
♦
Austin Chapman, M.H.R. for Eden and Monaro
(N.S.W.), formed part of a recent deputation to
Vic. Premier Bent, and the deputation pulled
that stout gentleman’s leg in a reckless fashion.
It wanted Bent to extend the Melbourne-Bairns-
dale line from Bairnsdale, through East Gippsland,
to the N.S.W. border about Delegate, in Chap-
man’s electorate, and, by way of encouraging the
stout gentleman, it assured him that he would
thereby “ practically add the Monaro country to
Victoria.” This sort of language might encourage
Bent to build the railway, which was the object in
view at the moment, but it was wholly undiplo-
matic and absurd as well. Delegate, the N.S.W.
border town which the proposed railway would
strike, is about 100 miles nearer to Sydney by
road and rail than it would be to Melbourne by
the proposed line. It is close to a good N.S.W.
port at Twofold Bay, and a long way from a
desperately bad Victorian one at the Lakes
Entrance. If N.S.W. cares to extend the Cooma
railway to the border, or to make a line down
from the tableland to Twofold Bay, wild horses
couldn’t drag the trade of Monaro to any Victorian
outlet. Meanwhile, this reckless and unwise
haulage of Bent’s leg gives the Sydney importers’
press a chance to clamor that the proposed Aus-
tralian capital at Dalgety will be in territory that
“practically” belongs to Victoria. Dalgety is
much nearer to Sydney than to Melbourne, either
as the crow flies or by any possible route of travel,
but that doesn’t prevent the Sydney morning
papers talking of it as if it were right at Mel-
bourne’s back door, and now they profess, as a
result of the disordered eloquence of the deputa-
tion already mentioned, that it is nearer to the
said back door than ever.
♦
From a man inside :
Judging by the voluminous correspondence in the
daily press, aroused by the publication of the recent
“ regrading,” public sympathy is with the N.S.W. civil
servant, but the man in the street knows only part of the
iniquity perpetrated by the Public Service Board, under
instructions from the Deform and other Governments.
When the P.S.B. was established, certain regulations
were made, and a contract was entered into between
the State and its employees. In 1898 the contract was
broken, and the automatic increases of salary which the
civil servant of good conduct and capacity was entitled
to, were abolished. In their place, a system of examina-
tions and of waiting for vacancies in higher grades was
inaugurated. So the only hope left to the State employee
was the death of the man above him, or, failing that, a
regrading once in five years.
These brakes on the progress of the unfortunate civil
servant being deemed insufficient, Mr. Carruthers insti-
tuted the present regulation, which deprives the pro-
moted civil servant of the emoluments of the dead or de-
parted man’s position, when it becomes vacant. The
understudy, who may have been for years actually the
head, though nominally the second, in the Department,
takes the higher position with no advantage to himself,
except a gazetted notice, which is not legal tender to any
of his creditors.
He may, if he lives long enough, ultimately reach the
salary at which the Board valued the position, but it takes
much time and many grey hairs. But there are some
pets. If a list of the payments made by bonus, allowance,
and other unpublished means to the pets of the Govern-
ment and the Public Service Board could be obtained
there would be a storm. It doesn’t mend matters that
this same Government, which is diddling the public
servants of their rights, is enacting that the member of
Parliament shall in future draw his screw, not from the
date of taking up his duties, but from the date of his
election !
4
Proprietor Richard Warren, of the Ovens
and Murray Advertiser (Vic.), who died re-
cently, aged 77, was connected with the paper
since its establishment in 1854. Fifty-two years
is surely a record in Australian provincial jour-
nalism. He sank a lot of cash in mining in the
Beechworth district, and was one of the founders
of the town.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Theatre Royal “A Sailor’s Knot.
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaw Man.
Criterion “The Fatal Wedding.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Hippodrome. Bohemian Dramatic Co.
Lyceum Hall. Edison’s Popular Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Madame Blanche Arral.
Her .Majesty’s “The Belle of New York.”
Theatre Royal. “Fun on the Bristol.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Alexandra Avenue. ... Wirths’ Circus (open Oct. 20th).
♦
This week The Bulletin has been trying
to look at “The Squaw Man” from the squaw’s
point of view. The dramatist doesn’t encourage
that view, it is hardly necessary to say. The
audience’s sympathies are pumped up to pour over
the white man. “Think of him, poor beggar, the
heir to a dukedom or something, tied to that! ”
So the man who built the piece is talking all the
time. And yet, in the end, the man is still alive,
and well and hearty, while the squaw is a limp
little corpse, dripping from a bullet wound.
After all, then, it looks as though, not the squaw
man, but the squaw, has been the real sufferer
from the bargain. There had to be a human sacri-
fice somewhere to get the noble white duke out of
the mess he made when he married with the noble
brown ; and the noble white dramatist doesn’t
see any way out of it but to kill off the
other party when she blocks the road. There
had to be a killing somewhere —that seemed
to be taken quite as a matter of course in
America, where they know a good deal about the
black and brown problem. From that point of
view, The Bulletin starts to wonder whether B.
Smith is the yellow man’s friend, after all ; for,
if it tells anything, this play-yarn tells that
there has to be human sacrifice in the fourth act
when the white and any other color are brought
together in the first or second.
* * *
“The Fatal Wedding” continues at Sydney
Criterion to crowded houses, and is just as fatal
as ever. The kids from our alley are still the
chief attraction, and a close second is the marry-
ing of the man to his No. 1 girl over the blood-
stained remains of No. 2 girl. It is not often that
the Voice Breathes O’er Eden with a smell of
warm blood on its breath, and the novelty is
stimulating.
* * * *•
The spring gambling season having con-
cluded and the anniversary of the Battle of
Trafalgar approaching, circumstances suggest to
Bland Holt that it is a fair thing to shut off “ The
Great Millionaire,” and stage on Saturday “A
Sailor’s Knot,” which is nautical and exciting and
full of broad flowing breeches and breezy situa-
tions. The “Knot” will be tied at the usual
Bland premises—Sydney Royal.
** * #
Two excellent picture shows have been
adding to the theatrical attractions of Sydney
during the week—Edison’s pictures of “America
at Work ” at the Lyceum, and West’s pictures,
with the Brescians as musical aids, at the Town
Hall. The latter show moves off this week, but
the Lyceum pictures will continue for some while
longer.
* * *
The lode at Sydney Tivoli is now running
several dwts. more to the ton than when The
Bulletin last put it into its assaying-pot. There
are half-a-dozen shoots of from middling to very
good quality, a couple of them brand new. Dun-
can and Godfrey are (to “ chuck ” wild-cat terms)
putting on a “ coster romance ” —another of those
little farce-resurrections with more rush and a
shade more romance about them than the old
farce had. This one is up to the average. And
the barrel-jumping of Augustin and Hartley is
above it. Meantime the Tiv. waits as breathlessly
as it can for the coming machine that combines
the flickergraph and the gramaphone.
** * *
“ Milky White,” the two-act comedy con-
taining many smiles and a few tears, ran for a couple
of nights to fair audiences at the Sydney Palace.
It was a complimentary performance tendered
to Miss Hilda Bevege, and that damsel played a
clever “Annie,” the crabby farmer’s daughter.
“In Honor Bound” filled in the regulation
theatre time. Miss Lilian Booth, Mr. Neville
Mayman, Miss Elsie Prince and Mr. F. W.
Roberts were responsible for the presentation.
“ The Belle of New York,” nowadays,
seems a differently proportioned entertainment
from what it was in the first Australian produc-
tion, when a tall, hoarse-voiced comedian, with one
shrunken leg in the grave, made Bronson, senior,
the commanding figure of the piece. It is stronger
in musical and spectacular respects, and some of
the characters that formerly were dismissed with
scorn are now hailed with acclamation, partly for
the reason that they are more effectively pre-
sented and partly because Melbourne has grown
accustomed to the shock of their unreasonable-
conduct. Blinky Bill (Fred Leslie) was pro-
bably the boss idol of the crowded congregation
at Her Majesty’s, last Saturday. Blinky was
heartily blithe and biffsome, and his eccentric
legs expressed all the sentiment of mixed-ale
pugilism. Another particular success was Miss
Alma Barber as Fifi, more unaffectedly charming
in her airs and graces than either of her pre-
decessors. Roberts did very well as Harry
Bronson, and his voice gave valuable assistance to
the finale of the first act where Miss Florence
Young put in her best work as leading lady.
Otherwise she was not a very impressive Belle.
She didn’t give one the idea of a devout
Salvationist who would think twice before
consenting to become a future millionaires?
with a few thousand dollars a year to start
upon. But her attempt to seem unequal
to the awful ordeal of singing a feebly naughty
song was a somewhat convincing effort. The
blushing Violet is supposed to sing the song in
order to blight her financial prospects, and
she looked quite likely to faint at her own
foolishness before she got to the second verse.
W. S. Percy played the Polite Lunatic politely
enough ; George Lauri repeated the most hack-
neyed of his Lauri tricks in the character of
Icabod Bronson (which offered him a great chance
to be new and striking). Miss Wilson was an
unduly refined queen of comic opera, and the
chorus, dressing and management of the show
broke the record in four places. The one con-
sistently brilliant performer of the present
Williamson opera season has been Tout En-
semble—the artist who usually gets least thanks
for his pain 3. Nothing too kind can be said
about Tout Ensemble.
XX X X
At the Princess’s, the Holloway Co. will
struggle with “The Shaughraun” until Friday,
and on Saturday Madame Blanche Arral will
start another short term of Operatic Recitals,
selecting her programme largely from operas
which are not well-known in Melbourne. Rivers
Allpress is to conduct an ample orchestra, and it
goes without saying that Madame’s costumes and
the incidental scenery will be up to the promise of
the advt. The second recital comes on Monday
night, the others on Wednesday and Friday.
Then the new firm of Meynell, Gunn, and Varna
will stage “ The Little Stranger,” a quaintly new
comedy, for the first time in Australia. Their
season is to last until Friday in Cup week.
XX X x
“The Earl and the Girl” makes way for
Widow O’Brien on Saturday at Melbourne Royal.
The Widow is always there or thereabouts when
J. F. Sheridan comes to pass, and sometimes
she gets there under an alias, as though
she were somebody different from her dear
old self. But on Saturday she will appear
again as the original one and only Widdy
in the latest edition of “Fun on the Bristol.”
Apart from the farcical sketch—“ Fishing
which fills the space reserved for Tate’s Comedy
Co., the programme at the Melbourne edition of
Rickards just now runs in two grooves. Larry
Lewis, Alf Chester and other people happen one
at a time with songs, humorous or otherwise ; and
in the higher groove two mixed couples of silent
acrobats are rival attractions. Les Cabiacs,
recently in Sydney, came to hand early last
week, and were amazingly different from
acrobats in general until The Alaskas arrived.
The more active partner in the firm of
Cabiacs is the limber little lady who appears to
revolve within her long skirt, but in the case of
the Alaskas the hardest work falls to the male
performer, who is very little and quite unprece-
dented, whilst his tall, stylishly-dressed lady
lends variety to the turn. Were either of these
artistic couples away, Melbourne could be happy
with the other, and in the meantime it is struck
by the cleverness of both. The Alaska gentleman
is a revelation in human movement.
X* X X
Miss Annie Mayor, who is remembered
admiringly by many Mellxmrne people from their
personal observation of her in days of yore, is
about to appear at the Athenaeum Hall for six
nights. Miss Mayor briefly announces herself as
an exponent of comedy, tragedy, pathos, wit, &c.,
and she will start this series of exponeneies on
Thursday (17th).
*X X X
The ingenious Stacy-Julius Voting Ma-
chine, an improvement upon the original model,
has been on view as a side-show in the waiting-
room at the House of Representatives. A strong
case can be made out for the adoption of this
machine in place of the present faulty system of
polling, but Federal legislators are just now too
much concerned with bidding for votes to woiry
about getting them registered by machinery.
XX X X
The Brough-Flemming Co. has moved on
from Adelaide Royal to Tasmania, after a
successful season of two new plays. Miss Winifred
Fraser is much missed from this Co., and Philip
Leslie is leaving, too. Gregan MacMahon is,
however, a valuable recruit. The Anderson com-
bination has come along with “The Midnight
Mail ” and Miss Eugenie Duggan ; whereupon
the Brandon-Cremer crowd at the Tivoli, which
was previously playing wild farce, suddenly
turned round and also staged low-priced melo-
drama. The judicious critic can only say what
the sporting farmer said when his best young bull
charged the locomotive—“Go it, you little cuss !
I admires yer pluck, if I despises yer judgment.”
XX X X
From Adelaide :
“ Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace,” making its first appearance
in Australia at Adelaid Royal, i roves to be more closely
allied to “ Mrs. Dane’s Defence ” than to anything else on
the local record. It is light comedy, leading up to a
tragic close. The necklace has been stolen while Mrs.
Gorringe is visiting at a country house. She is the kind
of woman who cannot describe an incident withoutacting
it. “I came in at the door, like this ; and the dressing-
table was as it might be here. Oh no! it would be
over there. I must come in at the door again.”
The hostess is a quick-tempered, illogical Society
trifler, and the two women have scene after scene of pure
comedy. Miss Day and Mrs. Brough are both admirably
suited. Incidentally, Mrs. Gorringe is trying to captivate
Captain Mowbray, who has eyes only for Isabel, daughter
of the house. A scene to be remembered is that in which
he—with stage ambiguity—tells the lady of his love for
the girl; and she replies simperingly that she could never
forget her “duty to Mr. Gorringe and the children.”
Herbert Flemming is Mowbray. It is one of the fat parts
written by an astute dramatist to attract a middle-aged
actor-manager. (Wyndham produced the piece, and
played the part, in London.) Mowbray is the central
figure, chaffs or advises everybody at will —and gets the
pick of the love-interest as well. Flemming has only one
enemy—his rapidly-increasing bulk. On his appearance
in polo costume, as a keen and successful player, the
house can be heard whispering inquiries l as to his unfor-
tunate ponies.
The tragedy comes in with young David Cairn, who
hag taken the necklace to pay bis debts. He is a poor,
shiftless creature, with fits of inadequate repentance,,
and—the dramatic rule being that an audience must
never be kept in the dark —he is early seen to “ plant ”
the plunder in a flower-pot on the stage. Mowbray sees
him, gets it out, and is caught with the goods by a detec-
tive. (Sardou would have made some fine “ Scrap of Paper ”
business of innocent characters fooling for several acts
round that flower-pot with its guilty secret; but the
author, H. H. Davis, of “ Cousin Kate ” fame, has missed
chances.) How'ever, Isabel remarks just at this moment
that she has secretly married David during the morning,
and Mowbray, taking all the metaphorical limelight, “ de-
clines to explain.” And now the author finds that his
comedy plot has run away with him. David has gone off
to the wars, leaving a young wife behind, and Mowbray
will certainly get seven years unless he “ explains,” which
he won’t do. Clearly there is only one way to cut the
knot. But it is a shock to the unthinking when David
returns, confesses, and shoots himself (off), leaving
Mowbray obviously wondering whether it is too soon
to begin comforting Isabel. Carter Pickford is quietly
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bronson is back to teach his boy—
His dearest blood relation—
That girls are agents to destroy,
Or gifts of gold without alloy,
And wine may fill man’s cup of joy,
If mixed with moderation.
Bronson is back—the gay old spark,
Who keeps his worldly pleasures dark,
And justifies with shrewd remark
His deep dissimulation.
He preaches not the Judkins Creed
Of dreary tribulation ;
He strikes the Light that Johnnies need
To lead them to salvation.
When Bronson finds his offspring weak,
Entrapped by Cora Angelique,
He pats the syren’s painted cheek,
And saves the situation.
Let verdant youth with virtue wed,
Whilst aged fathers, bald of head,
Drink wisely of the wine that’s red,
And tov with dissination.
Vic.
F.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
1
Mi|.L
rrrnw
J Uilli
William Fleming# eouiuble m ceorcest,syd/iev.
'ft)i3/(&77U?Uf/ dya.
ft) fSandntM veto
/ko/ifitizd rumfaf&d/ fur uJ
Aam co?tiAfu/fy ufi/ to uotoT'
tMomnti for ecmomy YMtio ■
faction. fn/ co
um-fumaL you/on
yw* 'f&tUu.
f
<n
r
m
v
ff/r
A Royal*
Tonic ,
KOLA-CUP
Promotes Strength, Creates Appetite and Makes New Blood.
All Hotels, Clubs and Chemists. A MOST EXQUISITE DRINK.
effective as the waster who needs “a strong woman to
influence him for good,” Edgar Payne is the amiable host
whose mind reflects the last opinion he happens to have
heard, and Miss Kate Gair does fairly well with her first
bi<r chance as Isabel. But that sudden tragedy at the
end jars after all the light laughter. Art demands that
there should have been just a hint of Impending Doom,
as it were, somewhere in the frivolous first three acts.
The alleged earthquake reported in Aus-
tralia last week was probably nothing more than
certain rumblings and reverberations incidental
to the preliminary preparations for the publica-
tion of The Bulletin Co.’s new illustrated
monthly, The Lone Hand, a Magazine of
Imagination, which will appear early in the new
year, and at once proceed to spread itself over the
whole earth.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Micawber”: Your correspondent “O’Fipp” is in
error when he states that Saharet, the Australian dancer,
is Marian Ainsworth, one time of Sydney Tivoli. In 1898
Saharet was the rage of Europe and America. Pilled as
“ the great Australian dancer, and one of the world’s
most beautiful women,” she created a furore wherever
she went. Now, to those who knew “(linger,” it is
evident that the latter half of the description couldn’t
apply ; yet a correspondent in Sydney RekeRRE hazarded
the opinion that Saharet was she of the sunset tresses, in-
asmuch as Miss Ainsworth, who had married George H.
Wood, “ the somewhat different comedian,” departed for
the States some months before Saharet rose on the
horizon, and was known to be doing well. Some time
afterwards it was discovered who Saharet was ; and after
reading an illustrated interview in London Encore (30/6/’O6)
brother O’Fipp will admit his mistake. Saharet toured
Australia and Maoriland with a circus company until 14
years of age; left for ’Frisco ; appeared tiiere for some
years ; and then drifted on to New York, where her
abilities attracted the attention of an Italian ballet
master. He applied the finishing touches. After that
she sprang into instantaneous success as a single turn ;
and in the height of her popularity she married a cute
Hebrew, who acts as her business manager. [And, with
all this, “Micawber” quite omits to say who Saharet is.
He says he knows, and he seems to be astonished at
“ O’Fipp ” not knowing, and he leaves things at that.
He states the lady with the name like an African desert
toured this country with a circus ; he doesn’t say under
what name, or with whose circus, or in what capacity.
Why this gloom and reticence ? —Ed. B.]
“ Oarpo ”: Re Saharet, the Australian dancer. I saw
her dance (per medium of the biograph) at Sydney Palace
shortly after it opened (about ’97), and there was much
speculation as to the identity of the lady, who, it was
stated, was an Australian. Rumor had it even then that
she was the romantically-named Marian Ainsworth, more
popularly known at the Tivoli, in its early days, as
“ Ginger.” But the said “ Ginger” subsequently returned
to Sydney and re-appeared at the Tivoli with the some-
what indifferent comedian, G. H. Wood. The theory
that she was Saharet was then abandoned. The latter
person in the biograph picture was a skirt-dancer of the
whirlwind order, but “ Ginger ” never became anything
greater in the ranks of Terpsichore than a mere high-
kicker. I will bet an improvement lease to an expired
pawn-ticket that Saharet is not an Australian at all.
What does it matter who she is, anyhow ? [Ten more
contributions on this subject, each contradicting the
other nine, and some showing a needless tendency to
violence of language, have unfortunately torn themselves
up and rushed into a basket that happened to be there.—
Ed. B.]
“T.D.”: Melbourne pianist Una Bourne, who came so
modestly to Europe just to hear the best and then return
to Australia, is definitely to appear before the Big Smoke
critics, after all. Una contributed items at a couple of
concerts given by people with more money than ability,
but the season was at its height just then, and the critics
were perspiring, and those concerts seemed to the critics
to be just the right ones to be passed over. But Una’s
friends among the Australian musical crowd were not
disposed to let her creep back to Australia without show-
ing what she could do, and they have been backed up by
the enthusiastic opinion of big agent Vert, who regards
her as the best thing in feminine pianists that he has
encountered for years. Therefore, Una gives a Bechstein
Hall concert in October.
“ Marvellous ” Lloyd, due in Melbourne in Oup Week,
under engagement to the Wirths, is a son of Jim Lloyd, the
only circus proprietor who confines his business to Ireland.
Lloyd, junior, the “ Marvellous,” quitted the paternal tent
because he could command a bigger salary in a wider
sphere, and of late he has been starring with Fillis’s Circus
in S’Afriea. He is said to act up to the titular adjective.
On the bare-backed steed he is a first-class performer, but
his speciality is tight-rope jumping, in which he equals or
surpasses Caicedo, the Spanish Colombian who was im-
ported for Williamson and Musgrove’s panto, many years
ago. Lloyd somersaults on the rope, keeping his balance
without the aid of a pole, and, to the generation that
knew not Caicedo, he will come as an astounding novelty.
Mrs. Billington, the destitute widow of John Billing-
ton, got a little windfall through the death of her hus-
band’s old boss. J. L. Toole, the boss aforesaid, be-
queathed her £5OO. Among other beneficiaries under
“ Johnny’s ” will, the sons of Henry Irving get £4OO each.
At the London Tivoli, a few weeks ago, Alice Hollander
was singing “ Ora Pro Nobis” with a limelight shining
upon her from the gallery roof.
MISS DORIS FURNER, a Goulburn (N.S.W.)
violiniste.
Photo, by Rozelle, Goulburn.
“ Argo ” : Recently attended a performance of “ The
Great Millionaire,” and saw Bland Holt from the Barcoo
making tea. He was evidently a new chum, because he
let the tea boil for fully a minute after infusion. His
attention must have been distracted by the presence of a
pretty gipsy girl. They are few and far between out on
the Barcoo.
Nellie Stewart writes to Dr. Bohrsmann, of Newtown,
Sydney, that she had to refuse all work this autumn
season, having to go to London and have an operation
performed on her neck. Our Nellie, however, seems to be
in high spirits. “My real life,” she writes, “is com-
mencing now, and I have a great future before me.
George Musgrove is on the Continent getting his grand
opera company together. He says there are heaps of
lovely singers to be got, and he was just off to the Wagner
Festival at Munich. My word, he says he is going to give
the Australians something they will appreciate, and
though he is working hard he is well and very fit.”
“Wyoming”: Concerning Gregan McMahon and his
gratifying success. About 16 years ago he was the star
elocutionist among the students at St. Joseph’s College,
Hunter’s Hill, and was a big feature at all college re-
unions. Subsequently he transferred his celebrity to St.
Ignatius’, and later on was a prominent member of
Sydney University Dramatic Club. Remember reading
in The Bulletin warm eulogiums of his work there.
After graduating, Gregan read law for some time. Unlike
many, he considered his correct name good enough for
show purposes, and did not rush around endeavoring to
find something extraordinary under which to stagger in
the limelight.
“Stargazer”: As one of the audience that witnessed
the revival of “ The Belle of New York ” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, I found myself wondering at the shocking
reception the opera met with on the occasion of its initial
Australian production at the Princess years agone. In
many respects the first show was superior to the present
one, and yet the play had an uproarious welcome this
time, and the crowd was delighted with the features that
were most despised on the original occasion. The Polite
Lunatic in the first co. was a delicious grotesque, and
Percy’s attempt, though good, does not come within miles
of the former German eccentric- Lauri, as Bronson, hasn’t
Oscar Girard’s quaintness, and the gap thereabouts in the
opera to-day is yards wide. The former Portuguese twins
were humorous objects ; the Belle herself was a much
more convincing and demure Salvationist than Miss Flo
Young can ever hope to be. Of course the opera has
grown on Australians, who have discovered more lucidity
and point in its story and its comedy than are common
in alleged comic operas, and just now t.he whole strikes
us as absolutely topical. Put Judkins in Bronson’s
scarlet uniform as leader of the moral reformers, and the
burlesque hits Melbourne right in its centre of levity.
Frenzied accusation seriously hurled at the villain by
the wrong “ gv-r-r-1” in a Melbourne suburban bellow-
drama. “ Yes, lam a fallen woman. That is what they
call me. But if it were not for men like you, Harold
Montague, lurking like banana-skins in the paths of life,
there would be fewer women like me ! ” (Thunders of
applause.)
“Sydold”: Wonderful how the mummer doesn’t see
things. In the second act of “ The Fatal Wedding ” the
distressed heroine faints at the thought of being unable
to pay the rent. The cute youngster of the play mistakes
the swoon for sleep (which is pardonable), and proceeds
with the peeling of the ’taters. During a long period of
unconsciousness many people casually talk to themselves
in the room and take not the slightest notice of the limp
form on the couch. The female comes round later, but
goes off again. Presently the lightning heralds the ap-
proach of the heavy villain and his assistant, who bring
with them a typical Bowery policeman. The three also
fail to see the lady reclining on her back, and argue the
point about the honesty of the youngster. There is much
going and coming back on the part of the unsettled police-
man and his quarry, and yet no one notices the horizontal
form. The curtain falls with a thud, while the woman
still has it out on the floor. Apparently she is an invisible
woman. What’s the best thing to take for sudden and
total disappearance ?
The Pavilion, a famous old theatre in Whitechapel
(London) has gone over to the Jews ; and is now pre-
senting all its dramas in the Yiddish tongue. London
Referee says there are no Gentiles left in the East End
to cater for, the influx of aliens having displaced them.
By the way, the stock company at this house is “ headed
by Mr. Waxman, a powerful young actor who, both in
face and voice, strikingly resembles his co-religionist,
Mr. Lewis Waller.” Can this be Australia’s old friend,
Albert Whelan? Anyone who saw him when he took, at
a day’s notice, Girard’s place in “ The Belle of New
York,” will admit that he might strikingly resemble
Waller, or anyone else he pleased.
“T. O’Fipp ” : Holman Hunt’s “Light of the World”
bobs up again at Melbourne National Gallery, which re-
calls the fact that bits of celebrity can be picked out of
the “Light.” Millais posed for the figure in the original
painting, and Mrs. Rossetti (Lizzie Siddal) sat for the
hair. Hunt did the face “out of ’is own ’ead,” and
rushed over various parts of Britain for the foliage and
other accessories. It is announced that the picture is
now valued at £30,000 (Charles Booth gave £6OOO for it).
Talk about the monetary value of this lingering work of
art makes one fear that thousands of pounds of good
Australian money may yet be spent on it instead of going
to purchase more desirable pictures. Already one grows
tired of the painting, and if it became stranded in Mel-
bourne Gallery it would soon be a regular Lightmare. I,
for one, won’t be happy till I hear that the “Light” is
safely back in London.
Generally overlooked or forgotten nowadays that the
late Henry Irving restored “ Romeo and Juliet ” to the
stage as Shakspeare wrote it. Garrick had altered it to
end happily by making Juliet awake before Romeo takes
the poison. Even Kean followed Garrick’s version.
Even nowadays, comparatively few playwrights get
anything like adequate remuneration for their work ; but
as an illustration of the lower depths of a few decades
ago, dramatist William Brough (uncle of Australia’s
Robert) used to tell of an early experience. Opening
negotiations with him . for a new play, a prominent
London manager remarked: “Well, we have given as
much as £5 for a farce.”
“ Pro.” : In naming new playhouses we are for ever
ringing the changes on the Royal, the Princess’s, and Her
Majesty’s. Why has no manager called his place “ The
Globe,” after the theatre in which Shakspeare held
the principal shares and in which his masterpieces were
produced ? [What’s wrong with a “ Federal Theatre ”?
Ed. B.j
One of the best impersonators of Claude Melnotte was
the old-time American actress, Isabel Dickinson. The
high-flown lover of “ The Lady of Ls’ons” frequently
gives one the feeling that he ought to be a woman.
“ lolanthe ” bulks large in American stage history as
the play which caused the legal decision that a ballet
skirt is a necessary implement of trade, and can there-
fore be imported into the U.S., if accompanied by its
owner, free of duty.
G. R. Sims tells the story of a young
married man, lost on Mount St. Bernard, whose
body was found 19 years later, lying in the centre
of a gulf of clear ice, as fresh and young as when
the deceased traveller had laid himself out for his
long sleep, with a paper parcel under his head.
The body, identified at once by the papers found
upon it, was carried (in ice) to his middle-aged
widow. She had grown grey since she last
saw it, and looked more than old enough to be
the mother of the form that had married her as a
girl. A similar story, taken from fact, was told in
brummagem blank verse by Hamilton Aid 6,
and is sometimes used as a recitation. The
body of a young man was found entombed in
a mine. No air had reached it, and the face had
the appearance of life, but the clothes and lamp
were relics of a dim past. Somebody suggested
that the oldest inhabitant of the village, a nono-
genarian dame, should be brought to see the body
before it was destroyed by exposure to the air.
And the old girl threw her arms round the dead
man’s neck, and thanked God for having restored
him to his own best Popsy, or words to that effect.
For 70 years she had talked of her fine, handsome,
young sweetheart, and here he was.
Sudden wasn’t the word for the action of
the jury re John Norton, of Truth, last week. A
while ago the other John (Haynes) said dreadful
things about Norton in his paper. The simplest
proceeding in such cases is to treat the charge
with cold derision, and give it the glassy eye and
the go-bye. There is no charge so big that it
can’t be treated with contempt, if the accused per-
son has sufficient contempt about him. But
Norton fell on Haynes (or rather on his son and
publisher, Haynes, junior) with the strong hrm
of the criminal law, and when Son Haynes was
brought up, Father Haynes put his dreadful
revelations in a barrow and wheeled them to the
court. The case lasted for the best part of a
stormy week, and ended with a crash on Saturday.
Haynes was acquitted, but the jury put frills on
the acquittal. It was unanimous that Norton
had ill-treated his wife, and it found, by a
majority, that he had done all the other things
charged against him. It even expressed its
opinion by 10 to 2 that Norton had got possession
of the property of a man named Grohn and had
afterwards killed him. It is a long time since any
jury in Australia took such cold and deliberate
aim with its brick, and then threw the brick, the
whole brick, and nothing but the brick, with such
energy. The brick seemed to be thrown in most
cases on very slender evidence, or hardly any
evidence at ail, but it was thrown all the same.
The Grohn episode, as related at the trial, was
a weird affair. Grohn and Norton came to Aus-
tralia together. The former was a softgoodsman,
with a whole thirst and a part of the business of the
big firm of Beil, Grohn and 00. He partly drank
himself out of the firm and partly fell out of it.
It is alleged that, either in a foolish way, or in a
foolish and beery way, he was a financial Provi-
dence to Norton in John’s less affluent days, but
another story is that he simply made small loans
which were returned. He became a derelict,
sleeping sometimes at Norton’s house, sometimes,
it is alleged, in some stables in town. It is said
that he was an oppressed derelict, who used to
weep as he was thrown down stairs, and talk
about all the money he had given to his assailant.
Finally, it is alleged that he met his death
through being struck on the head with a bottle,
and that Norton was at the other end of the
bottle. There is a story of a dirty, dead old man
being found next morning in an untidy room,
about a perfunctory medical examination, about a
voice that said, “ Shift the carcase out of this,”
and about a registration of the death two years
after it occurred—-which last item suggests an
amazing looseness in the registration laws.
Against this, John Norton’s version of the story
is that he didn’t clean out Grohn, that derelict
having cleaned himself out; that he kept Grohn
for the last five or six years, either at the John
mansion or at a boarding-house ; that Grohn died
naturally through beer, beer having become
natural to him ; that he (Norton) was respectful
to the dead, and that he came softly and laid the
humble tribute of a bunch of flowers on the
remains. But the jury, as already mentioned,
expressed its very hostile opinion—ten opinions
to two. When the verdict was given, the Judge
is recorded as having said, “ Haynes, you are
discharged.” Surely, if there is one time in a
man’s life when he should be called “Mr.” it is
when he is discharged. How would it have been
if the defendant had affably replied, “ Thank you,
Murray ” ?
The usual irresponsible female has been
telling S.A. Criminal Court how she married a
complete stranger on the strength of an advertise-
ment “with a view to the above,” and how,
within a week, he cleared out to Sydney with the
£BO and diamond ring which made up the whole
of her worldly goods. The husband explained
dramatically in court that his former partner, who
was not legally married to him, had been taking
to absinthe as the result of his neglect, and he
simply had to return to her to save her life. The
Sydney police rescued the ring and £l9 in cash,
but the wife has only the memory of one week’s
bliss with a “ physical culture expert ” —which
seems dear at £6l.
Mr. J. H. Stewart writes from The
Mount, Bathurst: —
You again give a very erroneous account of the man-
ner in which my-late father acquired this property,
Mount Pleasant, Bathurst. This is the true statement.
My father reached Sydney in May, 1825, in command
of the 3rd Regiment, or Buffs, and with the appoint-
ment of Lieutenant-Governor. He brought with him
an order from the Imperial Government for 3000 acres of
land in any part of the colony. This quantity was only
1000 acres more than was usually given to those settlers
who could deposit £lOOO to their credit in some bank in
Sydney for the few days necessary to secure the grant.
My father got his 3000 acres from the Duke of York, as a
reward for military services in the Peninsular War.
General Darling left the colony soon after my father’s
arrival, and he acted as Governor until Sir Thomas
Brisbane reached the port. But it was not until
1827 that he made his selection near Bathurst.
I have in my possession a letter to him from the
Governor, requesting him, as a personal favor, to run up
and make his selection to facilitate settlement. He
made a hurried trip across the mountains, and took up
his 3000 acres on the west side of the parish of Mount
Pleasant, along Evans Plains Creek, but not including
Monument Hill, where his remains now rest. In 1828 he
was sent with his regiment to India ; but before leaving
he secured a lease of the remaining portion of the parish,
containing about 12,000 acres. On arrival at Calcutta he
was appointed Commandant at Meerut, where he remained
for four years; and in 1832, when he was raised to the
rank of Major-General, he left the army on half-pay, and
returned to lock after his grant at Bathurst. He then
purchased the 9000 acre block where the monument on
the hill and the mansion house now stand, adjoining his
primary grant, at the upset price of ss. per acre. It was
not until 1838 that he secured the 2400 acre block at the
south side of the parish, for which he paid 12s. per acre.
“Deecy L.” writesßulletin article
(27/9/’O6) showing that a nation must have two
legs, agriculture and manufactures, is, of course,
unanswerable. But t\yo legs and a staff—D.C.L.
Whisky for the staff —are still better. D.C.L. is
a great support in time of weariness, and assists
the town man or country man in his progress to-
wards increased prosperity.*
From a debate in the Reps. :
Mr. Forrest (W.A.) had very little doubt that the Com-
monwealth would be able to borrow in .he London
market at considerably more than a quarter per cent,
better than the S ates ; therefore, they should expedite
the measure, which would secure this saving to the
PEOPLE OF THE STATES.
Mr. Fisiier (Q.): Is there any harm in saying “ the
people of the Commonwealth ? ”
There the Queenslander drew attention to a truth
which the State Frights party hates to see climb-
ing out of its well. State Frights are based on
the silly pretence that the people of the States
and the people of the Commonwealth are two
different lots. All the yapping about “Federal
tyranny,” and so on, rests on the pretext that the
elector in his Federal capacity is ill-using himself,
or robbing himself, or insulting himself, in his
State capacity, and wooden old gentlemen like
Forrest support the foolish idea when they make
old wooden remarks like the above.
Those who have not yet secured their supply o
Barrios diamonds will be pleased to learn that the great
clearance sale of brooches, pins, studs, links, lockets, and
rings has been extended another week. Catalogues show-
ing a choice of a wonderful range of variety for the
nominal price of 4s. per article, are now available, and
will be sent to any intending customer on application to
the company’s showrooms at 100 King-street, Sydney, or
52 Swanston-street, Melbourne. The co. also carries a
large stock of unset gems, which can be made up and set
to customers’ own designs in any quality of gold or pla-
tinum desired.*
The woman who wants to be really smart
nowadays in Sydney gets off the tram at the corner of
King and Elizabeth streets and hies her to 161 King-
street, next the Herald branch office, into the parlors of
the Misses Isaacs, where the tints of green and white
blend artistically. The reception room is fitted up sump-
tuously, and the other room where ladies have their heads
and hair attended to is a model of modern convenience.
Besides the large and fashionable assortment of toilette
requisites, combs, and other knicknacks, the sisters have
some specialities of their own, which are family secrets.
“Milo Shoulder and Face Cream,” “Vio” antiseptic
scalp cleaner and remover of dandruff ; and “ Gloria ”
hair tonic and “Golden Hair Wash.” All these things
have their uses—they help to make women more beauti-
ful and men more happy, and what else matters ?
Thus a hopeful correspondent :
The old-time opposition to the formation of Wages
Boards in Victoria is almost a thing of the past. Within
about a month, a dozen Boards have been appointed,
both Houses of Parliament acquiescing without a word of
protest, and the great mercantile community never even
troubling to remark that the place was ruined. Bent’s
last decision, to bring all shops, without distinction,
under the Factories Act, may not go through so easily.
Nearly every draper’s shop in the metropolis is the tied
house of some Flinders-lane firm ; many of them are
merely names, Smith or Jones and Co. being really as -
much the servants of the Lane as the newest cash-boy.
The proposal to pay all the salesmen and shop girls a
wage capable of maintaining them will probably lead to a
repetition of the old-time yells, but the Board will be
appointed all the same. The present system, under
which a girl gets 12s. 6d. a week, and is kept by her
parents at a cost of, say, 255., simply means that the
girl’s parents are subsidising the Lane to the extent of
12s. 6d. a week, in order that it may travel round at pub-
lic functions telling its fellows how many hands it keeps,
when in reality it does no such thing.
SERIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Short frock—and temper, too, so sayeth Rumor,
More serio than comic, has a Past;
Much impudence, some passing gleam of humor
(If she had much she’d surely never last).
ißut, after all, her own sad “ turns ” have bored her,
Both on and off the stage, since Lord knows when ;
So, of our charity, we will afford her
Applause, and pray she will not sing again.
vie.
KODAR.
WEARIED WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ What needs my Shakspeare for his honored bones? ”
A little less of commentator Jones ;
And worthy William’s spook might gain in zest
If commentator Smith would take a rest;
Yea, but to quite remove his worried frown
He needs relief from commentator Brown,
And sundry others in the comment line,
As commentator Frankfurtsausagestein.
And oh, how gladly Bill would lose the army
That asks was Hamlet mad or merely barmy !
And those societies of miss and madam
That study light refreshments and Old Adam !
Is there, then, left no dramatist ? Aye, Marry :
Behold the deathless Muse of Daniel Barry !
VIC.
N.L.


Furred vSßins
Rabbit vSKins
FORWARD YOUR CONSIQNfIENTS TO—
HILL CLARK ®. CO.,
Wool and Produce Salesmen, SYDNEY
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
AN ENGAGEMENT.
STORMER : “ Congratulate me, old boy. I’ve
secured a solid engagement at last."
COLEDAY : “ Never! You’re joking. What
theatre? ”
STORMER : “ Oh, I’m going to be married .”
The cigarette lately got some more blazing
advertisement in Collingwood (Vic.) court. In
one case, a hardened ruffian of 19 was charged
with damaging property. His mother told the
Bench that he had wrecked a room in her house,
thrown a vase at her head, and brought about a
separation between her and her husband. “He
read bad books and smoked cigarettes.” The
infuriated kid was remanded for medical observa-
tion. In another case, a young hero, who smelt
strongly of tobacco, was arrested for “eccentric
behavior.” He told the arresting constable that
he had burgled a bank at Healesville, and tried to
rescue a girl from a convent. He also “read bad
books and smoked cigarettes,” and he was also
remanded for med. ob. Doubtless the cigarette
deserves all the obloquy it gets ; but, as regards
the convent girl delusion, it was surely going too
far to style the Watchman a “ bad book.”
E. W. Owe’Sullivan has issued some of his
speeches in book form, with his portrait and a
picture of the new Sydney railway station, and
the work is called “Under the Southern Cross.”
Truly that Southern Cross is becoming a very trite
constellation, and it begins to sound like one of
the speeches of Elijah Pogram and other terrific
orators who said their bright home was under the
settin’ sun. Of course, Owe’Sullivan’s book is
under the Southern Cross. But so, also, are all
the Commonwealth and Maoriland. likewise eight
South American republics, and a great part of
Africa, and one whole ocean and parts of three
other oceans. The Southern Cross isn’t an ex-
clusively Australian property, and this isn’t the
only place under it, and it wasn’t invented especi-
ally that it might be over Owe’Sullivan’s book,
and it deserves a rest.
Sydney Anglican Synod had another bite
this year at the perennial question of the incum-
bent who becomes an encumbrance. Fixity of
tenure is the rule in the Anglican body, but those
parishes that have to endure for life the prosings
of an old bore are unanimous in recommending a
three years limit, at the end of which period an
all-round change, in Methody fashion, is to
happen. On the other side, those congregations
who have secured a jewel of a pastor don’t want
to inherit anybody’s bore. This faction is assisted
by the powerful clerics in fat rectories who don't
see the advantage of a system which will
periodically turn them out of their comfortable
quarters and chase them into the wilderness, and
they have hitherto been strong enough to resist a
change. The Synod has again dodged the issue
by postponing it. But what the church requires
is a change in policy, and a capacity for under-
standing that in public affairs there may be a side
to the case besides the side put forward by the
rich importer and the large property-holder.
Changes of ministers won’t help things.
* • * »
Two recent items, both headed “In White
Australia,” appeared in Melbourne Herald, One
concerned a lady who sued her white husband for
failing to support herself and two white children.
She didn’t ask him to support the two black
children, because their father was Ram Chutney,
or some such person. In the other case, a white
woman sued Chinaman Ching Meng for failing to
support his partly yellow daughter. She said that
Ching Meng was the middle Chow, so to speak
she had lived with one Chinaman before him, and
another Chinaman after him. Truly Bruce
Smith’s colored friends have dug a new pit in
Australia for the white Woman of straggling
morals. Before they came, it was the basempnt
and cellar of things to be a white man’s harlot.
There is a collar below that now, and a deeper
depth and a worse degradation—to be an Asiatic’s
mistress. Apropos, the cable mentions the flog-
ging at Johannesburg of sixteen of Bruce Smith’s
Chinese friends—the “splendid workers ” and
peaceful and admirable fellow subjects—an one
consignment for ferocious assaults on white men.
The Chow seems to have no consideration for his
brother Smith, and his actions put Smith in a
ridiculous position.
* * # *
“ Hassan ” : Consider the intelligence of
the church flea. He knows
when to start and when
to leave off. He comes
to the holy edifice
per favor of
w o m a n —t h e
scraggy variety.
Arrived there,
he jumps off,
and wanders
pensively
along the mat-
ting till he
strikes a nice
plurnp speci-
men. She
can’t dislodge
him ; it is im-
pious to
scratch in
church. But
the time
comes when
the tortured
soul will
have its re-
venge. Here
is where the
intellect of
the church flea
is manifest.
As soon as he
hears the “ last-
ly, beloved breth-
ren,” he creeps
down to his lurking place under the matting,
secure in the knowledge that his meal will arrive
again in seven days. He never leaves the church ;
why should he ?
* * * *
Melbourne will never be a really civilised
city until it hangs its honorary magistracy in a
row. Hardly a week passes without that in-
famous institution giving fresh evidence of its
incapacity, its cowardice, and its sympathy with
the brutal forms of crime. Here is a case in point
—there are very few weeks when there are not
several cases in point. One Kavanagh, being
indignant because his wife asked him to leave the
pubiichouse and come home, knocked her down
in the street, kicked her brutally, and tore her
clothes off her. He swore to his innocence with
enthusiasm, but there was abundant evidence,
and he was convicted and fined a trifle (605.).
If it had been a small matter of property he would
then have been prosecuted for glaring perjury,
but such things never happen to the wife-beater.
Next time Kavanagh was accused, on pretty
good evidence, of beating his wife, the honorary
bench decided to give him the benefit of the
doubt, as a confirmed wife-beater of good character,
and dismissed the case. It seems a pity, consider-
ing the low price of rope, that Victoria’s honorary
magistracy isn’t hanged. The State would be a
lot cleaner afterwards.
HOPE BEYOND THE GRAVE, OR A LAST RESORT.
HE : "I've tried all the hair restorers, and I've given up hope."
SHE (brighty): "Oh, don’t do that, Colonel. I was reading only yesterday that in scores of
cases where graves have been opened it has been found that the hair has grown quite
several inches on the heads of the corpses .”
“ Edyson ” : The heroine in man’s habili-
ments has been a favorite with waiters of short
stories all the world over, more especially in
America and Australia, and after reading whole
bales of narratives dealing with the woman in
pants, I have not found a single one in which the
psychology of the writer was not absurd, and
totally contrary to experience. The heroine in
pants and billycock, as depicted in popular fiction,
is always a sympathetic soul, tender, gentle, and
excessively feminine when she doffs the tubular
or drain-pipe garment. This is bunkum. The
truly feminine woman does not take to the habits
and pursuits of man. Miss Edwards, recehtly
arrested by the Vic. police, who fbf y fears
pact has aged the matt, is absolutely trufe
to type, and there is sd little femininity
about her that she is obviously an error of judg-
ment on the part of Nature. She is most at home
in man’s clothes, and most at ease in men’s
'company, although she found time to marry
a widow and flirt with other girls, all of whom
thought her a love of a man. She drank,
fought, and worked like a man, and displayed
nothing characteristic of a woman beyond a falsetto
note in her voice. All the women who have come
before the public eye during the last 21 years
as male impersonators in real life have had
traits identical with those of Miss Edwards, the
horse-breaker, and had nothing in their tempera-
ment in common with the breeched or panted
heroine of familiar tales. The type is very
frequent, but it does not always go the whole fit-
out, contenting itself—or trying to —with manly
hats, masculine boots, male coats and cropped
hair and slang ! I remember a lady of this
latter description (and she had condescended to
become a mother, too) saying with most pro-
found feeling: “Oh, 1 do so long to be shaved.
Sometimes I long for it so much that I want to
march right into a barber’s, and sit down in a
chair and simply insist on it.’’ Yet this lady had
no chin whisker.
The opposition in N.S.W. Parliament to
Dr. Arthur’s proposal for reciprocity in medical
practice is, so far as it has gone, an example of
“barking up a wrong tree.” Medical practi-
tioners of foreign countries are accepted as quali-
fied in N.S.W. and other States of the Common-
wealth on evidence that they have studied for
three years in a foreign University, but Australian
medicos, with evidence of similar study in an
Australian University, are not permitted to prac-
tise in the countries that most of those immigrants
come from. Dr. Arthur asks for reciprocity.
Australian Universities, and the public behind
them, should do likewise, and the shortest way to
get there is to recognise no medical degrees issued
in countries where Australian degrees are not
recognised. If it were alleged that the product
of an Australian University were less proficient,
after a certain course of training, than the pro-
duct of a foreign University, something might be
said for the foreign countries that reject Austra-
lians, but there is no allegation of the kind. The
denial of reciprocity is mere conservatism and
bumptiousness, and great should be the bump
thereof.
* * * ■>c
The W.C.T.U. at Stawell (Vic.) lately
petitioned the local council for permission to
erect a hoarding in a conspicuous place, bearing
the legend : “Temperance puts wood on the fire,
flour in the bin, money in the purse, clothes on
the back, and vigor in the body.” The council
did not give permission, whereupon councillor
Edhouse, the local brewer, informed the deputa-
tion that it could paint its legend on the end of
his brewery. The W.C.T.U. is considering the
offer. Evidently this Edhouse is a man of wide
sympathies. The Bulletin is almost certain
that the W.C.T.U. would not allow him to display
his beer advertisement on its outer wall.
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
When the police had been dragging the
Albert Park lagoon for 10 days without bringing
up any more human fragments, Melbourne began
to put the “discovery” down as a clumsy
students’ joke ; then two more parcels were fished
up, neatly tied with string and weighted with
sheet-lead. Inside these were further sections of
a deceased. This looked like pretty plain evidence
of a murder, particularly as the cutting up had
been done by a very unscientific hand ; so the
black trackers —the same two who fished up
Skinner’s body from the Waranga Basin, and
brought Edwards within sight of the “long drop”
—were set to work searching the lake bottom with
their feet. Sd f.lr, fchfey have discovered nothing
of moment; but as they speedily spotted a toma-
hawk and a bike-frame that the police drags hJtd
missed, it was realised that there were still possi-
bilities ; and that part of Melbourne that finds its
chief joy in viewing corpses, and rushing after
“ remains,’’ went down to the park, and had some
lovely afternoons full of the most charming expec-
tations. Judging by the wreckage the drags have
already brought up, pretty well half Melbourne
must have deposited its household waste in the
Albert lagoon ; but, so far, no more humanity
has been fished out. Unless the skull is dragged
from its hiding place and identified, it doesn t
look as if the matter would ever get much
forrarder. About all that the ’tecs have to work
on up to the present is that somebody was
chopped up in a place where sawdust was plenti-
ful ; and that seems too vague to hang the nearest
carpenter on.
The Melbourne police think they have
“got on to” another feature of the Lagoon
mystery. Some boys say that, a little time ago,
they dredged up a parcel with some meat in it,
but they concluded it was a rib of mutton which
had been employed as ground bait, and proceeded
to use some of it in fishing for yabbies. The rest
of it, when last seen, was in the hand of a man
who was throwing it in the water, and sooling his
retriever after it, while he laughed the loud cackle
that shows the unfurnished mind. Probably what
the boys found was just mutton, but gruesome
hopes and shudders are entertained that it was
man. At latest the police are searching for the
person with the loud laugh and the dog. "W hy
he is wanted no one knows. He doesn’t seem a
character who is likely to make intelligent
remarks on any subject.
* * * *
Another scheme —initiated by the An-
glican Church —is afoot to encourage Australian
parents to send lads to English schools for their
education. It would, perhaps, be interfering too
much with the liberty of the subject to be an ass
and bray, to prohibit by law this export of young
Australian minds to be grooved in the formalism
of English schools, but it is a cruelty which should
be stopped by some means. For the Australian
who is destined to make a living in this country
there is no more disastrous system of schooling
than that which he will get in a great English
school. He will learn to leave a waistcoat button
open, to favor a certain sort of tie, to indulge in
some arbitrary slang. Certainly, he will learn a
good deal else as well. But the little “jirns ’ —
the tricks and phrases and customs to which a
rigid conformity is demanded —will bulk largest
in his mind if his thoroughly English education
has succeeded. “To conform, ” that is the cry in
England—to get into a groove or a rut or a gutter,
to ape the tricks and habits of others. And Aus-
tralian life demands initiative, and has little use
for silly reverence for silly rules. An English
education is a big handicap to an Australian boy.
DAVID’S HARD LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I have knocked about liars for the past 45 years, and
I have never known a bad barmaid yet.”—(Jackson,
M.L.A., in the debate in Vic. Assembly on the Licensing
Bill.
Mop up your tears and sympathise
With Gaunson, M.L.A.,
Who’s never seen the goo-goo eyes
Roll temptingly his way.
Who’s never heard
The whispered word,
.Suggesting later fun,
Or stroked the hand
That passion fanned,
Since Eighteen Sixty-one.
Their names to him were only “Miss,”
Their love a thing afar ;
lie tasted ne’er the pleasant kiss
Across the vacant bar.
No shapely hose
Did they disclose
To David’s weary gaze ;
No golden head
Has ever led
Him out of virtue’s ways.
Lift up your voice in tones of woe
To reach the furthest star,
For David who’s encountered no
Bathsheba of the bar,
Who knows not what
bright charms they’ve got,
What countless beauties lurk )
And takes on trust
The powdered bust
Behind the openwork.
So let’s be thankful ’twas not worse
With ns, who now confess
We’ve known some barmaids not averse
To pleasant wickedness.
We might have known,
With Davy' lone,
A fate as drear and sad.
And never met
(That is, as yet)
A barmaid who was bad.
VIC.
A.B.


gsdf
gs
dfg
RZEB
sdf
MONEY-GETTING
SUBJECTS—
Shorthand. Bookkeeping, Elec-
trical Engineering, Penmanship,
Architecture, Mechanical Draw-
ing, Surveying, Sketching, &c.
Ten thousand people have improved
their mental, financial and social stand-
ing by our svstems of Education. Write
now for “ HOME .STUDY,” post free.
STOTT and HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
Moore St., Sydney.
Tbe COMING of SUMMER
Two Garments,
Coat and Trousers,
26/6
POST FREE.
OTHER PRICES, 305., 355.
SUMMER is coming'in and men who want comfort during the trying hot
days are beginning to think of lighter raiment.
We have a Suit—a ready to wear Two-Garment Suit—in all
respects a high-class, fashionably-made suit that will appeal to the man who
wants Summer comfort and smartness combined. The materials are Flannels
in Mid Greys and Browns. Coat is unlined; Trousers are smartly cut.
ORDER FORM.
Fill in, cut out, and forward with amount.
We refund money in any case of dissatisfaction.
Name Address
Chest inches. Waist inches.
Sleeves from Centre of Back
Outside Seam Trousers Inside Seam Trousers
PEAPES & CO.
. . . HEN’S and BOYS’ OUTFITTERS. . .
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Worrality Deluge has struck
Maoriland hard and heavy, and the
Y.W.C.A. is going round stealthily, with
its long inquisitive nose placed firmly
against the windows of shops which z
sell post-cards. The result has been
a series of prosecutions for ex-
posing for sale indecencies —
among which was one by an old
Bulletin artist entitled “The j
Native Bare.” It was merely
a silhouette of an aboriginal
woman with no detail of figure
whatever, and to say it was
indecent was to declare any
picture that showed a remote
resemblance to the human
form to be prurient. The
same sort of wave once struck
New York, and one frosty
morning the gardeners at
Central Park stood aghast as
a troop of hysterical females
suddenly took possession of the
grounds and dressed the statues.
Unfortunately, the supply of gar-
ments ran out, and Venus di Medici
was left arrayed in a set of woollen
combinations that were several sizes
too small for her. The Park authori-
ties had a sense of humor, and promptly
prosecuted, and secured a conviction
against, the people who organised the affair,
on the ground that the way they left Venus
changed her from a goddess of beauty to a dis-
reputable exhibition.
* * * *
At Bendigo (Vic.), the other day, a young
white girl was charged with bigamy. She was
separated from her husband, and it was alleged
that she was practically forced into going through
the marriage ceremony with a Hindu by threats
and duress. Also it was alleged that the Hindu
well knew she was a married woman. The parson
who performed the second ceremony had such a
dim recollection of the episode, though it only
occurred last April, that he could not identify the
girl; also he hadn't troubled to inquire whether
the discolored bridegroom was a Christian. He
further mentioned that it was no concern of his
if whites and blacks mixed matrimonially ; .but
he had a powerful recollection of the fact that,
though his usual fee was 305., he had only got
15s. for the job. The girl was sent for trial.
Nothing happened to the Hindu. Nothing
happened to the parson either. He is still
at liberty to mix blacks and whites matri-
monially, and get fifteen pieces of silver for his
offence. Judas got thirty, so two discolored mar-
riages make one Iscariot.
* * * ■*
The lady spy on the Sydney tram-cars is
not the only woman detective in this continent.
In one Australian city there was, till recently, a
well-dressed, ‘somewhat over-gemmed woman,
with a wet mouth and languorous eyes, who used to
meander round the post-card shops, and try and
induce the men in charge to sell her indecent post-
cards and photographs. If they had none on the
premises she would try to induce them to obtain
some specially for her. It was quite a time before
they realised that the police raid that ended in
discovery of the stock was the result of her visit.
Constable Denis O’Galahad always stated that
“from information resaved,” or “from somethin’
Oi was tould,” he took certain action. Some day,
some unsuspecting man will marry this female !
THIS DEMOCRATIC AGE.
DADDY : “ Oh, he's all right in a way,
but I'd rather you’d taken up somebody other than one of my own hands."
DAUGHTER: “ But, daddy dear, when we're married he won't need to work in your stuffy old
factory any more."
A SEA PICTURE.
[For The Bulletin.]
Green shoots of grass strike upward through the sand,
The lazy waves crawl outward from the land ;
Like shattered glass on every water ridge,
Lost flecks of sunshine make a sparkling bridge.
Where lift the mudbanks from the thin green tide,
A sea bird floats with wings unfluttering, wide,
And far and dark, and still as drowned blue skies,
A smooth deep line, the sand-bound channel lies.
QUEENSLAND. M. FORREST.
A REMARKABLE SENTENCE.
COUNTRY JAY PAY ( pompously , in imitation of a P.M. with whom he once sat): “ It's just as
well for you, prisoner, that you've pleaded, guilty, or the sentence would hare been
severe. You are to be — er —mulched in three days, o r— er—fifteen shillings.”
“R. McP.” : Re “Jimmie Pannikin’s”
par compl&ining of slow trains. Has he ever
sampled Private Enterprise in that business?
The Hexham-Minmi (N.S.W.) railway (privately
owned) is an object lesson to those who scoff at State
ownership. With regard to speed, I have heard
this train truthfully described as crawling over
the rails like a decayed centipede. The manage-
ment prints carefully on the back of each ticket a
notice that the trip is undertaken at the risk of
the passenger. This reads like a tacit admission
that the beautiful railway isn’t safe, but it may be
only excessive precaution. It also carefully points
out that connection with Government trains at
Hexham is not guaranteed. The concern is run
in the true Private Enterprise spirit. The car-
riages are ricketty and dirty. They are all
smokers, and the floors are covered with match-
wicks and tobacco ashes. Also they are never lit
up, even on the darkest nights. I like Private
Enterprise railways.
* * * *
Last week nine mysterious disappearances
were| reported to the police in Melbourne. And
with all this vanishment Wren, Worrall and
Judkins are still with us.
* * * *
For the Federal elections, read “A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
The Light of Asia—or, at least, the Rain-
bow thereof —turned up the other day at Lismore
(N.S.W.) court to answer a charge of murder.
His name was Zarut Khan, and he is said to
have blotted out Rhan Talla. Zarut, in the dock,
wore a tunic of red stuff, with loud shouts of gold
lace all over it, and the rest of him was mostly
silk, and cloth of gold, and gems, and bright
sundries. One Meer said he saw this dazzling
apparition burying the body. The jury disagreed
about the dazzling apparition, and he will again
show his finery in the dock later on.
* * * *
“ Melb.” : There is a capital souvenir book
of the Victorian State Schools’ Exhibition. Its
most curious photo, is of a Gippsland family, half-
a-dozen, coming to school on a sledge drawn by a
bullock. Inspector Dennant gives information
about the Victorian technical schools, which I im-
pound, with comments of my own. The earliest
was the Ballarat School of Mines, followed by the
Bendigo. A big impetus was given by the dis-
covery of Broken Hill, Mount Lyell, and the
Westralian riches. It is stated that 19 ex-pupils
of the Ballarat School are earning £17,000 a year
amongst them. This school is head and shoulders
above the rest of the Victorian lot. It has a
mining plant, while Bendigo is only providing
one. The Melbourne Working Men’s Col-
lege makes a brave show of edifices, but
falls ridiculously short of the ideal. Al-
together, there are 17 Victorian Technical
Schools, most of them more or less fudgy, some
pretty good, and about three good. Five are
called Certified Science Schools—Ballarat, Ben-
digo, Stawell, Bairnsdale, and Melbourne. These
give diplomas. I don’t know what is the value of
the Stawell one. Of the remainder, Ballarat West,
Ballarat East, Echuca, Horsham, Kyneton, Nhill
and Warrnambool are art schools only—what sort
of art ?' —but at Castlemaine, Daylesford, Geelong,
Maryborough, and Sale, both science and art
classes are held.
With a population of 250,000 and a revenue
of three and a quarter millions, Westralia cannot
pay its way. Not much wonder, considering the
circumstances. There is a big lunatic asylum
at Fremantle and another one is being erected at
a cost of £lOO,OOO or so, six miles distant. Perth
general hospital is meantime used as a dumping
ground for the casual cases of derangement that
drift into the hands of the police, and matters are
expensive. At a recent meeting of the hospital
board the secretary casually mentioned that a
number of mentally deranged patients had been
shunted on to the institution. He then remarked :
One man escaped the other day, although we had a
policeman looking after him. The consequence is that
the Police Department is sending up one policeman for
each case, and in one ward we have three patients and
three policemen, which means that nine policemen are
employed there in the 24 hours.
Whereupon a member,of the Board ventured the
assertion that it was gross extravagance to have
nine policemen a day in one ward. A system
which would require 600 policemen to watch 200
lunatics is calculated to make a hole in any Trea-
sury.
» * * *
W estralia has a chance that doesn’t often
arrive, and is fooling it away. From being a
mere collection of tents, Phillips River township
—where the new copper mines are—is jumping
ahead by longer bounds than the local kangaroos
ever dreamed of. and Private Enterprise has
turned up with a proposal to spend £20,000 on
local pubberies. At present the whole field is
practically publess ; and nobody knows why the
State should issue any licenses to anybody but
itself, or let anybody else make the profits that it
badly wants itself. But Private Enterprise
pushes on with its plans for spending £20,000,
and by the time the Government wakes up there
will probably be vested interests to struggle with
and buy off.
Among the victims of a recent raid on a
two-up school in an Australian city was an aider-
man. When the “ cop.” demanded his name and
address, he gave wrong ones; he also gave the
“cop.”£l. The “ cop.” secured a solicitor, who
fixed up bail. When he got free, the alderman
hunted up a man who was out of employment, and
offered him a day’s pay to shave his whiskers in
the same shape as his (the alderman’s), appear at
the court, and pay the fine. The alderman said
the fine would be £1 at the outside. The worker
did as he was requested, and duly answered to his
bail, which wasn’t his. The magistrate was suffer-
ing from morality and liver, and dealt out fines of
£lO or one month. The staggered unemployed
hastily telephoned to the magnate. But the great
man took no notice, and, after much frantic tele-
phoning, the toiler was passed along, and served
his month in due course. When freedom came
back to him, he made straight for the potentate’s
shop and demanded redress, compensation, and
other things, including blood. The magnate
stared at him with a cold, unrecognising ex-
pression, heard all he had to say, and then coldly
asked his name. “Me name lie damned,” snorted
the indignant workman; “ yon know me name well
enough. What are ye goin’ to do ? ” “ Send for a
policeman, and give you in charge for attempted
blackmailing,” said the sportsman, ringing the
telephone. Then the worker realised that he had
struckaproposition beyond his size, and with a, gasp
he hurried out of the shop. The sport is still an
alderman of that same Australasian city.
Sydney Corporation—the only live affair
among the 41 corporations of the N.S.W. metro-
polis—has serious ideas about widening the lower
part of Oxford-street, trying to take some of the
worst kinks out of George-street, and opening one
or two new thoroughfares. These are things
which can’t be undertaken too soon. They will
cost a great deal of money now, and every year
they are postponed will increase the cost. Com-
pound interest and unearned increment are per-
fect rabbits for increase and multiplication.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon where six
first class artists are engaged. The establishment
is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs) entrance
from George or King-street.*
THE VANDALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hang ! Bang ! the ghouls of discord come
(This blissful, hallowed Sabbath morn),
With strident yell and madd’ning drum,
And blood-red banner proudly borne.
Tiiis morn, when all the tirfcd world,
And I, aglow with rosy dreams,
Within the warm bed Snugly curled,
Start at the crash of tambourines.
Then voices shrill, and voices deep,
And muttered prayers, and cries : “ Oh, come
All, and be saved ! ” rave, growl, and steep
The morn in pandemonium.
“ Oh, murdered sleep ! That vandals, clad
In scuttle hoods and jerseys red,
And armed with cornets, cracked and mad,
Should rack a tired soul in its bed ! ”
They pass, those fiendish marionettes,
With final shriek and cornet blare ;
I cursed their drums and clarionettes
(They march with wild and vacant stare).
I’ll buy a pick, then in the ground
Of our back-yard, ten fathoms deep
I’ll dig, to where there comes no sound
From ghouls, to slay the Sabbath sleep.
Then, with my bed and safety-lamp,
The night before they howl and dance,
I will descend. Then let them ramp ;
I’ll dream in blissful ignorance !
N.S.W.
DRIFTER.
NO DANGER,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A ND where were you all yesterday ?
" What right had you to stay away ?
How dare you play
the truant, eh t ”
The teacher fiercely
cried.
“ Hate mercy, Miss.
On bended knees
I supplicate you, if
you please.
My Ma — a-tish-oo !
[ that’s a sneeze ] —
Is ill. She nearly
died."
“ 0 horror I What
is this I hear?
AND
WHERS
WERS
YOU?
It’s something ketching! Don't come near !
ON
BENDED
KNEES
Your breath pollutes the atmosphere,
Your eyes pro-
trude ; your
skin’s
“As red as pop-
pies w hen
they’re ripe!"
But here the pu-
pil ceased to
wipe
The dew dr op
from his nose.
‘‘ By cripe ! ”
He said, “ You’re
safe . . . IT’S
TWINS !”
N.S.W.
ITS SOME THING
'KETCHING'.
DONT COME NEW.
HOGH McCRAE.


CENTRAL MINING & TRAMWAY
64 Pitt St., SYDNEY APPLiANCES, Ltd. 424 Little Collins St., MELBOURNE
STEEL RAILS. STEEL TRUCKS. TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
ROREY Portable Engines, Tractions, Thrashers, High Speeds, Vertical and
itwwb ■ Horizontal Oil Engines, &c., &c.
BRUNTON’S SCOTCH WIRE ROPE. Hayward’s Dips, Pearn’s Fuirtps, Mining' requisites, &c., &o.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER , Managing Director.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The State Treasuries are still in a condition of
unusual affluence, for the most part:—
State Revenues for September.
Sept., 1905. Sept., 1906.
N.S. Wales .. £903,700 £911,706 Inc., £8,006
Victoria.. .. 644,867 501,788 Dec., 43,079
Que< island .. 484,256 510,584 Inc., 26,328
Westralia .. 318,699 294,664 Dec., 24,035
Tasmania .. 62,144 56,796 Inc., 4,652
And for the first quarter of the financial year :
State Revenues for Year so far.
July-Sept., July-Sept.,
1905. 1906.
N.S. Wales .. £2,656,477 £2,861,738 Inc. £305,261
Victoria .. .. 1,720,520 1,890,363 Inc. 169,843
Queensland .. 1,032,378 1,121,873 Inc. 89,495
S. Australia .. 683,157 611,193 Inc. 28,036
Westralia .. 786,824 784,825 Dec. 1,999
Tasmania.. .. 186,602 192,136 Inc. 5,634
As usual, there is far less information about the expendi-
ture under this head. Only three States furnish figures
on the nail:—
Expenditure for Year so far.
July-Sept., 'O6. July-Sept., ’O6.
N.S. Wales .. £3,078,079 £3,182,679 Inc. £104,600
Queensland.. 536,598 659,009 Inc. 22,411
Westralia .. 803,746 781,387 Dec. 22,359
Taking them State by State, these are the chief
things that meet the eye :
N.S. Wades.—Revenue for the first quarter of the past
five years
1902 .. .. £2,516,227
1903 .. .. 2,625,541
1904 .. .. 2,543,077
1905 .. .. 2,556,477
1906 .. .. 2,861,738
That shows the sort of time J. Carruthers is having.
And yet, with £300,000 more than the average of revenue
for the three months, he went £331,438 into debt to
Cohen. Waddell, who was so incompetent and extrava-
gant that Carruthers had him thrown out of the
Treasury, had £236,287 less revenue; yet he borrowed
£94,788 less in the first three months of 1903-4 than
Carruthers has borrowed in the past three months. In
the opinion of this deplorable “ Reformer,” there appears
to be absolute}}’ no point of prosperity at which it is
possible to do without the pawnshop.
Victoria. —This State publishes no loan figures till the
end of the 3’ear, and only very belated figures as to
expenditure on revenue account. The quarter’s revenue
is, however, £169,843 better than last year’s ; and that is
something to go on with. Treasurer Bent has made a
supplementary Budget speech, mostly, it seems, for the
purpose of showing that Victoria can pull through
“without troubling the Commonwealth about its loans
at all.” In short, because Thomas Bent has struck a run
of extra good seasons, and has been able to renew or
provide for the renewal of loans on fair terms, he doesn’t
see any reason why the Commonwealth should “ trouble.”
Bent evidently thinks he is independent of the other
States also, and that if they make a mess of things it is
their funeral, ahd not his. Most of the banks said the
same foolish thing in the days when T. Bent was a
vigorous land-boomer ; but they had to shut up shop all
the same.
Queensland. —The amounts available to pay the cur-
rent half-year’s interest bills :
Sept. 30, 1903 .. .. £225,143
„ 1904 .. .. 484,222
„ 1905 .. .. 495,780
~ .1906 .. .. 562,864
Meantime the expenditure on works, &c., has also in-
creased by about. £lOO,OOO. But the loan expenditure is
also mounting up. For the first quarter of 1904-5 it was
£60,124 ;in 1905-6, £62,842 ; in 1906-7, £159,314. All
that can be said in defence of this is that it hasn’t added
to the State debt. At June 30 last, the loan fund was
£2,238,426 in credit. Most of it was money borrowed
years ago, and locked up in the Q.N. Bank, but there was
at that date £779,977 available, and annual repayments
of about £170,000 a year are being made by the Q.N.
Bank. This money is being used up. Kidston has put
up a first-class record as a non-borrower ; and it would
be deplorable if he should spoil it now. Yet there
is really too little difference between borrowing, and
using money which somebody else borrowed, to be worth
bothering about. And, anyhow, if Kidston isn’t increas-
ing the debt he is increasing the net interest bill; because
the money which the Q.N. Bank is liberating, and which
he is spending, has been carrying interest as a partial set-
off to the interest the State has to pay for it. When the
Q.N. repays it, the interest paid by the bank to the State
stops, but the interest paid by the State to Cohen goes on.
S. Australia. —Only revenue figures available; the
past quarter’s record shows up £28,036 to the good.
Land sales are included as revenue, though for only a
smal} amount (£10,483). Railways (£311,943) provide
51’2 p.c. of the total revenue, as against 41’8 p.c. in
N.S.W., 43'2 p.c. in Vic., and 37’2 p.c. in Queensland. It
is a lucky State that has the Barrier traffic—while the
Barrier lasts.
Wpstralia.— The revenue still sags ; and, though the
expenditure has been cut down a little, it is still exces-
sive. For the past three months it represents £2 19s. 6d.
per head of the population. The N.S.W. expenditure
(which includes tramways, sewerage service, &c.) was
about £2 2s. 4d. per head. The Victorian State services
are about equivalent to those of Westralia ; and last year
the Victorian expenditure was at the rate of about £1 9s.
lOd. per quarter—against Westralia’s £2 19s. 6d. ! The
awful figures show the stern necessity for a thorough over-
haul, of the Westralian services.
The second annual report of those Queensland
Central Sugar Mills which, having failed to meet their
obligations, have passed into the control of the State,
has been published. There are now five of these mills—
Nerang, Moreton, Mt. Bauple, Gin Gin and Proserpine.
Until lately there was another, the Pleystowe, but that
one has now paid off the Government. The “ Central ”
mills were supposed to be co-operative concerns ; but the
old Continuous “business-men” Government allowed
them to be built in the wrong places, and run
under conditions that in some cases meant boodle
for land syndicates but disaster for small cultiva-
tors ; and so, they not only got badly into arrears,
but threatened to do worse in the future. When the
State took a hand the finances were first straightened
up ; a basis for future working was laid down, and the
confidence of cane-farmers was so restored that, whereas
in 1903 (the year before the beginning of the Socialistic
system) there were 315 farmers served by the five mills
mentioned above, there are now 542. But not only has
there been this remarkable increase of producers (and the
increase of production has been still more remarkable),
but the mills have paid ; instead of drifting deeper and
deeper into debt, and being able to provide nothing for
depreciation, the financial results are now satisfactory in
every case except one, and there have been special cir-
cumstances at work there. From the separate accounts
published for each mill these general results show up :
Deficit Working Net Net
(Capital account Profit, Profit,
account) Loss. Debit Jan., ’O4, June, ’O5,
written off, Balance to to
Dec., *O3. Dec., ’O3. June, ’O5. June, ’O6.
Moreton .. £12,107 £4607 £4323 £13,435
Loss.
Gin Gin .. 16,148 581 682 1,856
Profit.
Mt. Bauple .. 2,575 6165 1551 2,436
Proserpine .. 14,461 6069 5523 931
Loss. Loss.
Nerang .. 8,886 3921 1830 404
Profit. Profit.
Pleystowe .. 7,192 2940 2944 4,585
So the net profit of the six mills in 1904-5 was £11,829 ; in
1905-6 it was £22,839. And a debit balance (profit and
loss account) of £23,283 has been turned into a credit
balance of £11,385. Take that financial result in conjunct
tion with tne increase in the number of farmers served by
the mills (which practically means the number of farms
revived by the change to Socialistic control), and Dr.
Maxwell, the controller, ought to be very well satisfied.
Also Queensland ought to be very well satisfied with
Dr. Maxwell. In every case interest has been paid on the
State advance (interest is charged with the other
expenses), maintenance and renewals on what appears to
be a liberal scale are allowed for, and depreciation of
capital value on a varying scale is provided for. In the
case of the Moreton mill, for instance, there was spent
or provided out of revenue
Renewals and maintenance .. £2733
Interest 1448
Depreciation 1478
Total £5659
The depreciation averages about 3J per cent, per annum
on all assets, and is in addition to provision for renewals,
&c. Thb Bulletin doesn’t know what Dr. Maxwell may
be as a sugar expert; but, at any rate, he has knocked
the shocking finances of these concerns into shape, and
has put them on what looks like a sound, solid, commer-
cial basis.
» * • *
The Commonwealth Government has decided to
let the Life Assurance (Foreign Companies) Bill fizzle out;
and Australian insurers in American offices are thrown on
the latter’s mercy. To do those offices justice, they were
not the foremost opponents of the Bill ; the fighting came
from the representatives of some Australian offices, which
were afraid that, if the Bill passed and policies in the
American offices were better secured, the Americans
would be tougher competitors than they have been. So
the Government allowed itself to be bluffed, and to dis-
regard the imperilled interests of the 30,000 Australian
policy-holders in the American offices.
Even before it abandoned the Life Assurance
Bill, the affable Government agreed to exempt British
cos. The absurdity of this was shown by the fact that the
action which pushed this measure to the front had to be
taken against a British co. Forty years ago John Darling,
sen., the miller, father of the ex-leader of theS. Australian
Opposition, took a policy in the Eagle—an ancient British
institution of the most respectable J. Bull type. Yet,
when John Darling, jun., set out to collect the money,
upon the death of John, sen., the co. told him to
pursue it to England, and argue the matter there,
if it needed arguing. In tiiis case the Darlings, being
a family of great tonnage, got their money ; they began
to raise so much dust that the co. crawled down and
posted out a cheque. But what would have happened if
the Darlings hadn’t been a family of that tonnage—if it
had been just the size that the co. probably supposed it
was from the size of the policy?
Before the Government next goes into the
matter of insurance legislation, it might do a lot worse
than get a copy of the French Act, passed about two
years ago. It is the newest and perhaps most sompre-
hensive thing yet produced in that line. Also, the
Government might get some horse-sense and a backbone.
* * * *
The Bank of New Zealand’s Assets Realisa-
tion Board :
Loss on Received
Loss on Property Total from
Business. Sold. Loss. B.N.Z. Deficit.
1895.. £54,507
1896.. £43,860 £43,860 £35,709 62,658
1897.. 41,814 £45,231 87,045 39,391 110,312
1898.. 66,629 55,924 112,553 74,900 147,965
1899.. 53,010 28,355 81,365 50,000 179,330
1900.. 6,623 28,463 35,086 50,000 164,416
1901.. 22,185 22,530 44,715 50,000 159,131
1902.. 62,286 18,365 80,651 151,135 88,647
Reserves.
1903.. 37,968 7,117 45,085 174,410 40,678
1904.. 26,196 110,072 136,268 179,022 83,432
1905.. 31,851 6,426 38,277 206,312 251,467
1906.. 21,429 15,406 36,835 224,329 438,961
The time has arrived for saying good-bye to this Board.
It has done its work, and, helped by Maoriland’s amazing
recovery during the past 12 years, has done it well. In
1895, when the Board was constituted, it took over pro-
perty having a paper value of £2,680,285 ; against that 3J
per cent. State-guaranteed debentures were issued by
the Board to the Bank ; and, in view of an estimated de-
ficiency of £850,000, it was agreed that(l) the Bank
should pay £50,000 a year out of profits as interest; (2)
after paying (if the directors thought proper) 5 per cent,
dividend, all surplus profits should go to the Board.
These profits have been so unexpectedly large, and the
realisation has been so rapid and successful, that nominal
reserves to the extent shown above have accumulated ;
while there remained to be realised on March 31, 1906,
stations and other properties of the book value of
£926,541. Therefore, after writing off the paper item
in the balance-sheet, representing the “amount
paid by the Board in excess of Mr. Mean’s valuation,
£54,507,” and which has not been regarded in the above
table as an a:sset, the reserves equal 47£ per cent, of the
book value of the assets. In other words, these remain-
ing assets could be written down 47£ percent, out of the
Board’s reserves. In view of the small loss now being
made on working account, after paying interest on de-
bentures, it seems certain that no' such severe writing
down is necessary. It can at last be said, therefore,
that the Assets Board, which 11 years ago had a deficit
estimated at £850,000, can produce a clean sheet. The
general manager for the Board estimates that there is a
surplus, after providing for all liabilities (including deben-
tures), of about £36,000.
In accomplishing this remarkable result the
profits of the Bank have been the most powerful factor.
The realisations, though rapid, have not been at particu-
larly high figures. In fact, the Maoriland legislation of
the past 12 or 15 years—especially the progressive land
tax, compulsory land sales, and Government subdivision
of estates —has tended towards cheap land. The esti-
mated deficit (£850,000) was, therefore, much under the
mark. But in 11 years the Bank has been able to make
£1,170,689 of profits available, thus proving that big bank-
ing profits are not necessarily bound up with dear land.
The future of the B.N.Z. now looks very
bright; for there appears to be no reason why any more
of the profits should be drawn upon to wipe out the
awful stain which was made when the old boom burst.
For the past five years the net profits, after writing off
£95,504, have totalled £1,429,144, or an average of £285,829
a year. But when the debentures issued by the Board are
done with—that is, when the Board disappears—the profit
will be something like £50,000 a year less. These amounts
have been paid by the Board to the Bank as interest :
1902, £82,827; 1903, £76,887; 1904, £68,627; 1905,
£57,378 ; 1906, £42,177 ; total for five years, £327,596, or
an average of £65,579 a year. On the o her hand, t ’ere
is £1,000,000 less of .Government 4 p;r cent, stock now
outstanding against the Bank. The net result, then, is
that, under similar conditions, some hing like £25,000
a year le s profit may now be expected, which, on’the
past fi>e years’ results, would reduce the average to
£260,000. In 1914 the remaining £1,000,000 worth o: 4
per cent, stock falls due; and it appears to be the wise policy
of the Bank to build up reserves, so as to pay off that debt.
The Bank’s present reserves, with the probable small sur-
plus from the Board, may be taken at £lOO,OOO ; so that
at least £lOO,OOO a year will have to be set aside to make
up £1,000,000 by 1914 ; and, on present appearances, it
may be taken for granted that it will be set aside. That
will leave £160,000 available. The State owns £500,000
of preference capital; there is also £500,000 of ordinary
capital. The preference capital is entitled to 10 per cent,
(at which it stops) when ordinaries get 15 per cent. ; and
that 10 per cent, and 15 per cent, respectively would call
for £125,000. Beyond that, on the past five years’
experience, it is not likely to go ; but that much seems
highly probable. When the £1,000,000 of stock
has been got rid of, or probably before, the uncalled
£3 6s. Bd. on the ordinary shares may be got in,
doubling the ordinary share capital, and thus
putting ordinaries in a relatively better position in
relation to preference capital. To some extent, however,
the market has discounted all this. Present price for
shares (£3 6s. Bd. paid) is about £8 7s. 6d. A 10 per cent,
dividend on that means a return of a fraction under 4 per
cent. ■ a 15 per cent, dividend means a return of £5 19s.
per cent. Supposing the other £3 6s. Bd. per share were
called up, a 7k per cent, dividend on pref. and a 10 per
cent, dividend on ordinaries would call for £137,5UU
(which would be as easily paid as the other if the new
capital earned only' 2J per cent, net) ; and that would mean
a return of £5 135.“ 4d. per cent, (a £6 13s. 4d. share,
carrying 10 per cent., would cost £ll 14s. 2d.); and a
15 per cent, dividend would mean a return of 8 per cent.
But a 15 per cent, dividend on £1,000,000 of ordinary
capital, and 10 per cent, on £500,000 of preference capital,
would call for £200,000 ; and, in view of the obvious need
of reserves, that need not be looked for yet. Still, there
are the possibilities.
The South British Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland): —
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1896 .. £11,060 1 5 p.c.= £9,694 £1,366 £169,910
1897.. 27,612 17J „ ~ 11,310 16,302 186,212
1898 .. 5,930 17| „ ~ 11,310 180,832
1899 .. 27,560 17| „ ~ 11,310 16,250 197,082
1900.. 39,488 20 ~ ~ 12,926 26,562 223,644
1901 .. 36,975 22£ „ ~ 14,541 22,434 246,078
1902 .. 44,896 25 „ ~ 16,157 28,739 274,817
1903 .. 43,925 25 „ „ 16,157 27,768 302,585
1904 .. 75,532 30 „ ~19,388 56,144 358,729
£32,314 Reserves transferred to Capital 326,415
in _, 158,691 25 p.c. = 25,000 33,691 360,106
1905 .. -j New Share Premiums 9,411 369,517
1906.. 72,103 27£ p.c. =27,500 44,603 414,120
Down to 1905 the paid capital was £64,628 ; by paying a
bonus of £32,314, which was applied to capital, and by
the issue of a few other shares (at a premium),
the capital was increased to £lOO,OOO. On the amount
actually now paid, excluding the capitalised reserve but
including the premium, the present dividend is at the rate
of a fraction over 35 per cent. ; the profit was at the rate
of 93 per cent. These are glittering figures. But to a
great extent the co. deserves them, because for many
years it paid only 5 per cent. Back in 1891, when its
underwriting profit was £24,593, the dividend was only
£3231 ; and the same policy of making large additions to
reserves has been pursued all through. Of course, it has
been a profitable policy ; for the public that thinks about
the matter will give its insurance to aco. which in return
gives it the protection of large reserves. And this co.
needs to pile up reserves for another reason ; its share-
holders’ liability is not limited. The latter is a pleasant
reflection for the co.’s clients, no doubt; but it is a
curious position for shareholders in an insurance con-
cern, above all others—a concern whose business in life
is to show people the folly of not limiting their liability.
Still, that is their funeral, and not the insurers’.
For many years the South British Co. stuck to
fire and marine business ; recently it got authority to do
any sort of underwriting outside life insurance. Acci-
dent, employers’liability, and similar departments have
already been opened up. The present accounts include
the results of the new business. The expenses of organ-
ising new departments might have been expected to show
up in the figures ; but the rate is actually better than it
was in 1905 :
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £209,239 £136,160 £60,229 65’0 p.c. 24’0 p.c.
1900 .. 215,730 130,123 57,925 60’3 „ 26 9 „
1904 .. 284,402 169,550 68,890 56’1 „ 24*2 „
1905 .. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60'4 „ 27 *7 „
1906 .. 310,434 186,102 85,719 58’2 ~ 26’8 ~
The underwriting profit is thus just 15 per cent, of net
premiums ; in other words, 3s. in the £ of the average
premium has been profit for the co.—profit, that is to
say, or reserve against a year when the co. will strike
disaster. By great good luck or foresight, the co. dodged
disaster in the past year by withdrawing recently from
’Frisco and South America, in both of which places it
once had a large connection. The co.’s investments are
remarkably profitable ; on the average amount held dur-
ing the year they show £5 9s. per cent. Something like
60 per cent, of them are landed property and mortgages.
The policy during the past few years has been to put the
funds into these securities :
Landed Property. Mortgages.
1895 .. £65,566 .. £55,303
1900 .. 96,442 .. 53,002
1905 .. 171,342 .. 116,180
1906 .. 184,537 .. 132,765
Meantime, the holding of Government securities has been
increased hardly at all; the co. holds more Japanese
5 per cents. (£10,154) than any other stock. It is the
only feature of the accounts which isn’t wholiy satis-
factory.
* * * *
Commercial Permanent Land and Building
Society (Bendigo, Vic.)
Business Loss on To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Sales. Dividends, serves, serves.
1902 £1,061
1903 .. £1,447 £B6 5 p.c. = £1,380 1,042
1904 .. 1,473 82 5 „ „ 1,396 1,037
1905 .. 1,410 53 5 „ „ 1,373 1,021
1906 .. 1,496 73 5 „ „ 1,426 1,018
Again, nothing is added to reserves; again, more is paid
away to shareholders than was earned ; and the poor
little reserves which profess to protect the capital against
the depreciation of £34,508 worth of shrinkable assets,
have been once more cut into. The fact that year after
year a loss is made on foreclosed properties sold is pretty
good proof, too, that the securities (which give an aver-
age gross return of just 6 per cent.) are in some
cases over-valued, and ought to be written down
out of profits. From another aspect, however, the
society’s finance is more characteristic of Bendigo ; for,
by strictly limiting its debt to the public, it reduces the
chances of anything like a very bad smash. This debt
amounts to £4407 ; the shareholders’ own funds are
£31,833. Over 90 per cent, of the shrinkable assets are
represented by the shareholders’ funds. This, of course,
means small profits ; but it also means safety. For, when
vast assets are represented by vast borrowings, it means
that the shareholders’ funds have to bear the brunt of
any shrinkage of those assets, as well as of those other
assets which represent the shareholders’ funds them-
selves. This society’s management expenses are moderate
—£47B last year, as against £5Ol in 1903. This is equal to
just under £1 Bs. per cent, of the assets, other than cash
balances.
* * * *
The toll system is, after all, to be introduced in
connection with the telephones; but the proposed rates
have been cut down, on account of a calculation that the
principal systems are paying from 9 to 10 per cent, on
capital, wherefore the proposed rates could stand a reduc-
tion. Under the new scheme, which is to be introduced
right away, a Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, or Adelaide
subscriber may, for £5 a year, make 1000 calls in six
months ; after the first 1000 calls the charge will be from
|d. to Jd. per call. In Perth and Hobart the minimum
rate will be £4 10s. In Sydney and Melbourne the cost
will apparently work out this way :
£5 0 0 for 2000 calls per year.
2 1 8 „ 3rd 1000 ~ „ „
1 7 9 „ 4th 1000 „ „
1 0 10 „ sth 1000 „ „ „
£9 10 3 for 5000 calls per year.
The first 2000 must, however, be equally distributed.
The present charge for a “business” telephone is £7 a
year. Under the toll rate 10 calls every working day of
the year can be had for that money. Those people
who have machines at present need not go over to the
other system. Many, however, are paying £7 for what
they will in future be able to get for £5 ; and, if the new
system works smoothly, they will pretty soon adopt a
method which, curiously, seems to have found quite a
host of friends lately.
* * * *
The hustling National Mutual Insurance
Society’s latest outbreak is in a scheme to solve the
Victorian licensing problem. It offered to pay £600,000
as compensation to voted-out hotel-keepers, by instal-
ments spread over 12 years, in return for 15 yearly pay-
ments of £42,320, contributed by the hotels that are not
snuffed out, the latter to be security for payment. The
principle of making the enriched house that isn’t snuffed
out pay the compensation is sound ; but there were other
points about the scheme that made it impossible. Still
the National Mutual got its advt.
* * * *
Large sales of Sydney city property have been
made during the past few weeks. Burns, Philp, and Co.’s
shipping office, in Bridge-street, with 34ft. frontage, and
held on a five-years lease at £BOO a year, brought £l5 650
which gives rather less than 5J per cent, return. ’The
late George Kiss’s properties, in Pitt-street, which realised
about £70,000, show at that price about 6 per cent, on
present rentals. So much money is available, and in'the
absence of manufacturing industries there is so little to
do with it, that choice city mortgages have been taken
at as low as 4 per cent.
* * * •
The National Bank of Australia will for the
past half-year pay 4£ per cent, on ordinary shares. Only
twelve months ago the dividend was put up to 4 per
cent. Since then, while £62,986 has been paid in divi-
dends, only £14,262 has been put to reserves; and the
additional J per cent, will call for £5962 a year. The
total dividend will now be £34,474 per half-year. Until
Victoria’s present burst of prosperity, some half-years’
profits were :
Mar., 1898 .. £15,471 Mar., 1900 .. £22,152
Sept., 1898 .. 17,602 Sept., 1900 .. 27,065
Mar., 1899 .. 12,323 Mar., 1901 .. 28,448
Sept., 1899 .. 19,245 Sept., 1901 .. 32,050
It is quite possible that, in the earlier half-years, con-
siderable amounts were written off out of profits to
provide for old losses ; but even so, taking all the figures
together, it is clear that even before the increase of divi-
dends upon which the directors have now decided, far too
much was being distributed, in view of the bank’s very
small reserves. For many years prior to the present
phenomenal seasons not nearly enough profit was shown
to pay the dividend now resolved upon. Apparently the
directors are figuring upon a continuance of the present
conditions of abnormal fatness ; and investors, basing the
price of shares upon the dividend, are following them.
Such a policy is loaded up to the muzzle ; and it is just
about as certain as anything can be that there is sorrow
ahead.
• • * •
The Colonial Bank (Melbourne) puts up its
dividend to 6 per cent, all round—it has been paying
5 per cent, all round since 1902 ; before that it had been
paying on preference shares only. This was expected,
and isn’t such a bad case as the National’s. The average
profit since September, 1901, has been £17,928, and it will
take £13,178 to pay the increased dividend ; so that, on
the average profits of the 4£ years to March 31st last, the
new dividend would allow 26 per cent, of the profits to be
laid by. Moreover, the size of its profits in proportion to
its funds suggests that this bank hasn’t many non-paying
skeletons in its cupboard to get rid of.
* * » *
Silver-lead miners are moving to get a cut out
of the high metal prices. Zeehan (Tas.)cos. have mostly
given up to an 8 per cent, rise ; and Broken Hill miners
will most likely meet the cos., on the managers’ hint that
some sort of an advance is waiting for them. It is either
that or an Arbitration ease.
* * * *
The start of the present boom in Barrier silver-
lead stocks was the announcement chat the zinc problem
had been solved, and that, in proof thereof, the Zinc
Corporation had been formed, in a vast number of shares,
which promptly jumped to a hea\y premium. At once
the papers v r ere filled with yarns regarding the millions
upon millions’ worth of zinc in the tailings dumps.
Next some sales were made and options were
given ; a few deposits were paid, and these swelled
the mining. cos’, profits and dividends. The mar*
ket was dazzled by the yarns about the millions
upon millions’ worth of zinc; it forgot that, anyhow,
most of the cos. had sold their zinc-bearing tailings
for as little, some of them, as 3s. 6d. per ton. All the
time it was taken for granted that the Zinc Corporation
couldn’t possibly fail. TUB Bulletin pointed out then,
and it has gone on pointing out ever since, that this tre-
mendously-boomed Corporation, so far as could be
ascertained, had nothing whatever up its sleeve —it
knew absolutely no more about zinc treatment
than the next man. There Were several processes
offering, and it has spent a year trying to find
out which one it likes best, and it is pretty clear
that it doesn’t like any of them very well. There is
a small profit in most of them, but nothing glittering.
As might have been expected under the circumstances,
this hasn’t improved the temper of the bosses of the
concern. Resignation of experimental chemist Bradford,
whom the Corporation enticed over from B.H. Prop., was
announced a week or two ago ; now general manager
Simpson has followed. Queneau, the foreign zinc ex-
pert, brought out for the purpose of reporting on the
possibility of zinc smelting, and Huntley, of the South
Blocks, have taken charge. Meantime, the public begins
to have doubts whether the vast things that the Zinc
Corporation w'as going to do will coine off. But it hasn’t,
so far, recalled that, to a great extent, it built the present
high prices of Broken Hill stock on the tremendous things
which the Corporation was going to do. The temporary
spring in the lead market has blinded it to the real be-
ginnings of the boom.
* * * ♦
Broken Hill mines are employing more men now
than at any previous time. Apart from those engaged at
reducing works at Pt. Pirie and elsewhere, the total got
up to 8027 at the end of September, the leaders being—
B.H. Prop., 2824; South, 1030; Central (Sulphide Cor-
poration), 898 ; Block 10, 669 ; British, 668; and Block 14,
512. The B.H. Prop, is, nevertheless, working with about
200 less men than at the end of 1905 ; but it still has over
4100 men on its pay roll in Australia, and another 350 or
400 are engaged at its work, though employed by con-
tractors. This is independent of men engaged on the
railways. The South, whose ore output is considerably
more than a third of the B.H. Prop.’s, sells all its ore for
foreign treatment; and, judging by the B.H. Prop.’s
figures, Australia thus loses employment for something
like 500 men. The export duty on crude products is a
long time coming.
* * * x
Employment at Broken Hill moves up and
down with the metal market—especially the lead market
—as witness this table :
Em- Em-
Lead. ployees. Lead. ployees.
1895 .. £lO 12 5 4300 1901 .. £l2 14 1 4850
1896 .. 11 511 5329 1902 .. 11 4 0 5014
1897 .. 12 8 4 5563 1903 .. 11 11 8 5726
1898 .. 13 110 5777 1904.. 11 19 8 6758
1899 .. 15 1 5 6495 1905 .. 14 2 6 7332
1900 .. 17 3 7 7010 1906 .. 18 10 0 8027
The lead quotations given (except for 1906) are the aver-
ages for the year. People who expect the present prices
and output of metals to continue, and with them the
present market prices of shares, won’t be able to get
much comfort out of the table.
* * * *
Inquiry is called for into the recent granting of
six months’ suspension of labor conditions at the
Pinnacles mine, near Broken Hill. This property is
know'n to contain rich ore bodies. The sulphides are of
higher grade than any now produced along the line of
lode at Broken Hill, and there is a carbonate body from
which very rich ore has been taken. For years past the
Queensland Smelting Co., a foreign-owned concern, to
which the mine was quite subsidiary, has been exercising
a masterly incompetence with regard to the develop-
ment of its property, and the co.’s blind bungling
should not be bolstered up by a too-tolerant Mines
Department. During four years some alleged new mining
machinery has been talked of, but it has never arrived ;
and, meantime, about one whole truck load of mullock
has been put into the mine as filling ; and the only timber
which is positively known to have been put in was used
as staging to reach the ore at the back of a stope, which
is now about 70ft. high, with no filling at all in it. Only
a couple of weeks before the suspension was granted a
miner refused to work in this stope on account of wedges
of sulphides having peeled off the “ back ” (or roof); and
the “ back ” was too far up to be examined. Was this
mine ever inspected by the officer who granted the six
months’ suspension ? And when did the mining inspector
examine it?
* * * *
The North Extended, Broken Hill, intends to
probe for ore shoots, which are said to be coming in
from the North mine and Victoria Cross, and the diamond
drill has been engaged. Nobody, So far as writer can find
out, has seen these shoots of ore ; still, like the bunvip,
no one can say they don’t exist. But is anybody spend-
ing any money in searching for the bunyip?
* * * *
Haiden looks as though it might now be added
to the very short list of assured N.S.W. gold mines. After
providing £327 for depreciation, a profit of £4262 was


Mow
Make
Your
l So that it
wai be
Carried
out 7
,-v-
-....
■iK's,. o
mm*
>L
Appoint
me H
(LIMITED}
T
made last half-year. Of the profit £1747 was spent on
plant, £709 in development, an overdraft and other debts
were paid off, and on June 30 the co. had a credit balance
of £1278. The mine will be fairly well equipped by the
end of this month, and also well developed ; and regular
dividends are in sight. The stone treated in the half-
year brought in £3 6s. lOd. per ton ; working costs
(exclusive of depreciation) were £1 Bs. 2d, leaving £1
18s. Bd. to provide profit and cover wear and tear. Slimes
and a portion of the sands have yet to be dealt with.
This ore was worth (gross)£s ss. 4d. per ton. At August
30 the estimate of ore reserves was 10,586 tons, worth
£4 17s. 7d. Taking the profit at £2 (which seems very
conservative, on past results), there is thus over £21,000
of profit developed. These values are in two ore shoots ;
during the last two or three weeks a third shoot of
lower grade but payable ore has been met in the No. 2
level east. This ore is, of course, not included in the
estimate. The shoots are going down satisfactorily,
and there appears to be no reason whatever why they
should not be picked up at the 300 ft. level, when that
comes to be driven. Also, there are good prospects of
discovering other shoots ; the co. was formed on what is
now known as No. 1 shoot; and two others have since
been developed. The co. is in 50,000 shares.
* * * »
Driving north to get out the first parcel for the
smelters, the Budgery (N.S.W.) ore improved, and a
market that had been inclined to think better of its
disposition to get drunk on Budgery, started in again.
Increased price for fractions of the original 100th shares
restored the market price for the claim to over £lOO,OOO.
As to the richness of the ore, The Bulletin has come
upon an old report from Great Cobar, announcing - 30 per
cent, values. In fact, there are said to be still odd
traces of that 30 per cent, ore left in the
zone of secondary enrichment, where values from above
have been leached down and held. Still, if there is even
3 or 4 per cent, ore in a large bodv under the present
level, as there is at Great Oobar, £lOO,OOO isn’t a ridicu-
lous valuation. One thing, however, ought to be nailed
up where it can be seen : Whatever may be judged about
the size of the body from the, present level, its metal-
value cannot be determined on that data.
* * * *
From G. M. Field, of Hermidale (N.S.W.),
where the Budgery is: —lie the Telegraph’s map (B.
27/9/’O5) and the controversy regarding the strike of the
Budgery lode. The West-of-North and the Easc-of-North
dispute about the lode, which I am saddled with creating,
is not my fault. The whole blame lies with the Budgery
directors' weakness for officially declaring the “true
strike”of theformation upon every possible occasion. Their
position now is this In June they officially declared the
strike to be N.lO°E. In July they reported (see half
yearly report)that the footwali, when it left the shaft was
nearly East-and-West. On the 7th Sept, the N.W and
S.E. leases were pegged out, and on the Btti the directors
again officially declared the strike to be N.l2°W. As this
did not sufficiently clear it from Hogartli and Leslie’s
(M.L. 5), they officially declared it on 13th September to
be N.l5°W. On the 22nd they officially declared it to be
anything from 12 to 20° West. (Bulletin has it 15 to 20'
West.) And the hanging wall is not cut yet. Now I
fully expect to hear every day that for a change they
have declared it to be North-of-West and then wind up
by declaring it to be North 55° East, the bearing of the
drive they are now putting in from the crosscut. Mean-
time, I am -fighting - whole platoons of anonymous
eminent mining - managers,” and “experienced mining
men, with a yelping tail of sheep-station experts over
the question.
* * * Hr
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.), which had some hope
of dodging the reconstruction that has threatened for
two years, is up against it at last. Proposal is to wind
up the Baker’s Creek Gold Mining Co. and form the
Baker’s Creek Gold Mine, N.L., on an issue of share for
share, £1 shares, paid to 15s. 6d. on a first payment of
6d. But, though the mine, &c., are to be taken over at a
book-value of £5OOO (Is. per share), there won’t be a
liquidation dividend; if the Adelaide scheme goes
through, non-application for the new share means for-
feiture of interest. Management of concern for some
years past has been very unsatisfactory ; and that will
incline a good many to let themselves be frozen out.
But the mine is certainly worth a further try. It has
paid £2 13s. 6d. per share in divs.
* ** * *
The New England (N.S.W.) tin c6s. in Arthur
Pearson’s office, Melbourne, start out to set the good
example of furnishing prompt and detailed figures of each
month’s work. Cope’s Creek Extended for September
showed a profit of £863 ; Tingha South, £836; Tingha
South No. 1, £1076. Profits in proportion to total tin
value work out as follows Cope’s Creek Ex., 72-5 per
cent.; Tingha South, 68 - 5 per cent. ; No. 1 South, 74 - 8
per cent. All these percentages allow of big margins for
something to go wrong with the water supply and the
tin market. While both things are as they are just now'
it is a fat business.
* * * *
Golden Fleece, Wyalong (N.S.W.), treated a
parcel of mixed ore at Cockle Creek, totalling 162 tons for
3580 z. gold. The co. is proceeding to spend up to £3OOO
in improved hauling machinery, and a 10-head stamper
battery.
* * * *
Neeld’s, Wyalong, is not the bonanza it used
to be. Over 1000 ft. of driving and crosscutting has been
done at the 750 ft. to pick up the underlay of the rich
shoot worked at the 300 ft. and 400 ft., but without suc-
cess : and further sinking is now under way.
* * # ♦
G. H. Blakemore remains with J. Bull’s Great
Cobar Co. as general manager, and J. O. Armstrong as
mine manager. Both are Australian-trained metallur-
gists and engineers, and both are on the sunny side of 45.
Pitcher’s Reef and Swiss Mount is one of the
recent Daylesford (Vic.) floats, carried through on the
tide on which the Ajax and his Nuggety friends still dis-
port. Pitcher’s Reef and its ally have a record. Old
yields are not only “reported,” but are “known.” So,
it may be added, are Judkins and John Wren, but
one cannot say that much more is thought of them in
consequence. To float mines on 20-year-old records has
rarely been a profitable proceeding in Victoria. Against
that, the Cornish group may be cited, but even they are
now in want of gold. Ajax may be named, too, but it
has still to reach the continuous div. stage. On the other
side can be put old stagers like the New Mariner, the
Queen’s Birthday (Dunolly), the New Yorkshire, Eliza
Ann, and a score of other would-be second adventists.
Still, Pitcher’s Reef is no worse and no better than
Sailor’s Fall, or the Dry Diggings, or the Nuggety Ajaxes.
There is a chance always in a mine that has yielded gold.
But, if the past is to be the standard of merit, Daylesford
is only a ranker besides some of the old Maldon giants.
Pitcher’s Reef and Swiss Mount re-introduces old pros-
pectus acquaintances. “ The lode is evidently a true
fissure lode.. .. Nowhere along the line has the lode been
worked to any great depth. ... In fact, 2000 ft. is by no
means too high an estimate as to. its (the lode’s) probable
downward extent.” These are small slabs respecting the
Swiss Mount. Another slab is : “It seems extraordinary
that this valuable property (the Pitcher’s Reef) should
have been left undeveloped for so long a period.” Surely
the man who wrote that was born not far from Ballarat.
* # * *
Oassilis, Gippsland (Vic.), continues on its
sloth’s march. From 800 oz. to IOOOoz. a month comes
from it. The ore is refractory, and transit costs are high.
But, even so, the shareholders don’t deserve to own the
property, and the directors, because of their lack of
pluck, don’t deserve to draw fees. Shareholders have
only put up a few shillings capital, letting the mine do
everything' else. What is needed is a Board that wall
shake the carping critic on the register by the beard, tell
him he has had more out of the claim than he has put in,
that it is the worst of economy to draw on the mine as
things are going, and to demand the enlargement
of the register by the issue of 12,000 additional
shares, bringing it up to 50,000, or to call up ss.
No mine has responded more gamely in Victoria to the
drain on it than the Oassilis. Nearly all the timber suit-
able for fuel near the claim is cut out, the power
generated is so poor that co. cannot keep rock drills and
hauling going to the full extent, and costs, despite
efficient management at the mine, are very high. A suit-
able electric-power scheme has been before the Board for
12 months. But it involves money. Instead of making
calls to meet the cost, co. is hanging out for profits to
pay the piper. The board should be heroic, make the
calls while on good stone, as then they can get the cash
in. If the stone cuts out, their chance of obtaining
money is poor. The market knows all about the co.’s
plight, and therefore doesn’t hesitate to wallop the
shares, whereas if the shareholders faced calls no liberties
would be taken.
* • • #
Francis Ormond, Chewton (Vic.), is supported
by Bendigo capital, because local people, having lostfaith
in their own reefing shows, put all their spare cash into
dredging. The claim, like all mines in Castlemaine dis-
tnct, is on low-grade dirt, and has been so most of its
life. Most of its gold is got from spurry country. In
following this down, the shaft has reached the respectable
depth of 1200 ft., so that Geologist Dunn thinks the zone of
saddle-bearing country, which he has been trying to g-et
Castlemaine people to believe should make their field a
second Bendigo, has been about reached, lie proposes
tnat the diamond drill should be set to work on the
anticline at 1200 ft. to bore down 1000 ft. and test if any
leefs lie in centre country. This is one of the most busi-
ness-like suggestions that has come out of the Depart-
ment controlled by McLeod. Bent afforded £5OOO to the
.South Star blue duck, although the cash could only
benefit a Collins-street bank. There can he no suspicion
of a gamble over the Francis Ormond, and £lOOO would
pretty well see the boring through. If it succeeds Dunn’s
“ second Bendigo ” might rise on the ashes of old Forest
Creek.
* * * *
The mountain brought forth the mouse in con-
nection w'ith the Caledonia mine, Warrandyte (Vic.), last
week. An announcement was made about a flow of
water, and it was expected that a large body of stone was
ahead. The “ big body of stone” finally turned out to be
one of 12in. This, after all, ‘is not bad, as
far as reefs go at Warrandyte. It now has to be
proved whether the amateur prediction that the
reefs would widen and the country become less faulted
at depth will be realised ; also, whether the rich gold now
coming from the upper stopes will carry below the No 2
level. The whole region at Warrandyte is so broken that all
chances are against this taking place. The fizzling-out
process is going on in connection witli almost every other
co. in the district. North and South Caledonia so far have
not done much to justify themselves as position claims
and the Consols doesn’t to-day promise to he much of a
consolation show for those who got landed over the little
market corner in the shares. Victory and Panton Hills
have had everything except good gold, so that to-day
more, than ever the district stands out as a one-mine
field, that mine being the Caledonia.
* * * *
Fairplay, Kalgoorlie, between North End and
Hidden Secret, has struck rich ore in a winze at about
200 ft. deep. The stone carries telluride and free gold
and assays are very high. The claim is worked by three
men, and progress is consequently slow. The finding of
this shoot discredits the early-day yarns that the north
end of the Golden Mile was no good, and both the North
End and the Hidden Secret should be stimulated by the
discovery.
* * * *
North End, Kalgoorlie, is now equipped with
an up-to-date surface plant, but the co. is very short of
funds. In fact, it has been a hard job to pay for the
machinery. The management has all along been poor
and continues so, which is bad luck for a district that
needs good handling, under which it might turn out
trumps.
* * * *
Hannan’s Reward-Mt. Charlotte, Kalgoorlie
is working an open-cut 105 ft. deep, and is just paying its
way on ore worth only 3dwt. per ton. This class of ore
is being worked for a width of 40ft. or 50ft., and there is
enough in sight to keep the 20-head mill going for years
The mine gives employment to about 100 men under-
ground, and 20 men on the surface ; but it is very doubt-
ful if shareholders will ever get a return. If mine were
worked on a bigger scale, there might be some chance of
divs., but the 20-head mill can earn very little on the
present low grade of ore.
* * * •
Hannan’s Star, Kalgoorlie, is still a very doubt-
ful proposition, and go dfields holders are much disgusted
with the way things are going. Trewartha James came
out from London several months ago to put the co. on its
feet, but as yet has not done it, so far as the naked eye
can see. A test crushing was recently put through the
Eclipse mill, but the actual result was never disclosed.
Tributors have just put through a parcel of about 100
tons for an average of 27dwt., while co. could onlvget
7dwt. or less. This result, in view of the evidence at the
Gold Commission inquiry, may mean anything or nothing.
Anyhow, people are, for the moment, very chary of
believing the published results of rich parcels from tribu-
tors’ crushings and outside shows.
* * * »
Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, has recently been
knocked out by bears, though the mine is, so far, quite
as good as it has been for some time back. It must, how-
ever, be pointed out that the monthly return and profits
are totally misleading, as costs include only stoping and
treatment; and, if other charges were included, as in the
case of the Ivanhoe, profits Would be easily reduced to
half. The mine, so far, is looking fairly well, but there
is no denying the fact that the lodes being worked show
up badly at depth.
* * * *
Whitford’s Reward, Gregory Hills (W.A.), is
worth watching. A recent, much-advertised report con-
demning the property looks very like a market move to
let speakers get clear of their bear sales. The ground is,
however, alleged to be identical with that pegged out by
Steve Wake ; and the Wake Syndicate is to fight for the
title to the property. It Is possible that ownership of the
show has never been granted to anybody at all. Under
the circumstances, buyers of scrip should be careful;
they may be buying an expensive law suit.
* * * *
East Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), still refuses to
confirm the gaudy reports published about it. The ore,
according to these reports, was worth several ounces to the
ton; but returns show that the stone treated only pans
out at 655. 2d. In addition, there is only the miserable out-
put of 292 tons, which conclusively proves that the
quantity of stone available is very small.
* * * *
Westralia Mt. Morgans still looks sick. Some
three or four months ago mine was inspected by
Feldmann, one time boss of Hannan’s Brown Hill, and
it was thought by the unsophisticated that he could
place the mine on a payable basis. Feldmann’s report is
not yet available, but the last three months’ returns read
205., 18s. 7d. and 15s. lOd. per ton, which are certainly
not payable, as mine’s costs are high. Feldmann’s report
should, anyway, provide interesting reading.
» * • *
“ Yarn ” : Bulletin (26/7/’O6) complained that,
to the detriment of small men, Lake View South lately
had a parcel of no less than 750 tons crushed at the State
battery at one pop. True, and worse. They have followed
on with another parcel of about 840 tons, making a total
of 1590 tons, and monopolising the battery for six weeks
out of eight. Leaseholders at Yarri can find no trace of
the regulation imposing a 200-ton limit; but as they
thought the same as the writer of the par., that the
monopolising of State batteries by one party (and
especially by a co.) should be jumped on with both feel),
they forwarded a petition to the Minister for Mines (who
had been whining all over the State about his solicitudje
for the poor prospector), asking him to make a fortnight’s
crushing on the 10-bead the maximum, in the eveqfc of
other parcels being ready. He said “ No.” The petition
was signed by all the leaseholders and prospectors
outside the co. The Minister said he intended to
let the co. crush 1000 tons at a time, and so make
a profit for the State, although previously, when
attacking ex-Minister Johnson for raising the price
of crushing, he maintained that it was never intended to
make a profit out of State batteries. Theco., going by
the hour, gets its stone crushed for about 7s. 6d. a ton ;
the prospector has to pay from 10s. to 14s. per ton. This
is the outcome of Minister Gregory’s efforts to assist the
“ poor prospector.”
* * * *
“A shareholder said he thought the whole
affair looked like a swindle. The chairman said he
thought so too.” With such remarks the Grant’s North
West Prospecting Co. agreed to wind up in Adelaide. A
pity, if they thought it a swindle, that they should shut
up in that way. The chairman is De Rose, one of the
lucky Adelaide men who made a big punch through the
original Great Boulder syndicate. Surely he owes enough
to mining to probe a business like this, instead of drop-
ping it the moment there seems to be no money in it.
* * * *
Pioneer Extended (Tas.) not long since was all
tears and complainings, because naughty stockbrokers
punched shares down to a florin over a poor clean-up.
Now the horizon is bright, for the clouds have been dissi-
pated by a yield of 18 tons of stream tin. Tears are still fall-
ing, but theseare the coins dropping from the pockets of the
stockbrokers who were caught on the wrong side of the
market. Lord Mayor Weedon is one of the Board ; so is
Aikman, M.L.C. ; so is John McWhae, member of the
Stock Exchange. Directors bear their turn of fortune
like men of the world, for there isn’t a pouter among
them. 'Tis told that they backed the stock all the way
down hill, solidly and heavily. If so, Weedon should
have a little more for the Mayor’s parlor if that were
needed, and it isn’t. Aikman will be a tin deity alongside
De Bavay-Bai lieu in the Legislative Council; and John
McWhae should cover more of the Stock Exchange
mosaics with his feet. Co. now has some cash in hand,
and it has the promise of at least another good yield
before the water supply slackens. Its duty is to put itself
beyond r sk by bringing a permanent supply to the mine.
The market told the tale that something big was coming
out over the yield, but dealers refused to take the rumor
seriously. Hence their Waterloo.
* » * »
At Gympie (Q.), during September, 17,703 tons
were crushed for 10,3390 z. Calls amounted to £3317,
while £26,025 was paid in dividends. Compared with
September, 1905, the only increase is £2240 in dividends.
In calls £1377 less was paid—which isn’t too good a sign,
seeing how badly Gympie needs prospecting. Chief pro-
ducers for the month were Scottish Gympie, 7750 tons for
30740 z., or nearly 9£dwt. per ton ; No. 2 South Great
Eastern, 5220 tons for 19300 z, or just over 7dwt. per ton ;
Oriental and Glanmire, 150 tons f0r12120z., or7oz. 15dwt.
per ton ; IN. Smithfield, 382 tons for 8270 z., or 2oz. 3dwt.
per ton ; S. Glanmire andMonkland 1324 tons for 6300 z., or
■9J(lwt. per ton ; IN. Oriental and Glanmire, 610 tons for
4070 z. No. 1 South Oriental and Glanmire, with 542 tons
for 1920 z., or 7dwt. per ton, is very disappointing. Chief
dividends were Scottish Gympie, 74d. (£20,625); No. 2
S. Gt. Eastern, 6d. (£3600); No. 1 N. Smithfield, Is.
(£2400). The most important developments for the
month come from the north end of the field, on the
Columbia line of reef ; and a few more satisfactory crush-
ings may yet be expected. The Great Northern Co. has
been registered, and sinking operations started on October
Bth. This show, in entirely new ground, calls for aid out
of the Government prospecting vote.
* * * «
No. 1 North Smithfield, Gympie (Q.), with a
2oz. crushing last month, has helped to give the field a
better tone. Most of the gold is being’ obtained from
what is termed the eastern reef, which is really a reef
making on a slide. Thus, in the drive south on this slide,
there is 4ft. of crushing stuff showing. This formation
appears to be running parallel with the No. IN. Columbia
Smithfield boundary, and just inside the No. 1 N. Smith-
field boundary. As the drive is right in the slide, and
the country slate is only about 30ft. thick, a few stopes
following the drive will see the best of the stone out. It
is calculated that No. 1 N. Smithfield has 500 ft. or 600 ft.
of this formation to the southern boundary.
* * * *
No. 2 N. Columbia Smithfield, Gympie (Q.),
with a crushing last week of 256 tons for BSooz., or 3oz.
Bdwt. per ton, and the declaration of a Is. dividend, looks
healthy. Co. expects to have the continuation of the
formation now being worked by No. 1 N. Smithfield
(eastern reef). The mine is hot and wet and requires a
deal of baling.
• * * *
The feature of the Mungana (Q.) report is that
the profit is more than 40 per cent, of the value of copper,
lead and silver produced. The co. had 2596 tons of
copper ore, 9052 tons of lead ore, and 3440 tons of fluxing
ore smelted at Chillagoe for a return of 321 tons copper,
894 tons lead, and 116,3620 z. silver ; total value about
£50,000, out of which the co. reckons a profit of £21,609.
There is thus £28,391, or less than £2 10s. per ton of lead
and copper ore, to cover cost of mining and smelter’s
returning charges. It is quite safe to say that no other
co. could mine and smelt ore at the Chillagoe works for
that. But, then, Chillagoe Co. owns 100,000 Mungana
shares, and that makes all the difference. Under the
circumstances, the figures as to profit may well be sniffed
at.
* * * •
Most of the big Cloncurry (Q.) show's carry good
gold values. Bulk samples of the Argylla carried sdwt.,
and Mt. Elliott outcrop bears visible gold. The Mt. Elliott
ore throughout is alleged to carry Bdwt., but this wants
smelter proof. The outcrop bulks 20 per cent, copper ;at
125 ft. there is 34ft. of ore bulking 23 per cent. ; the drive
north W'as carried 80ft. along the footwall, and bore with
it a foot seam of black oxide bulking 35 p.c. At 80ft.,
No. 2 crosscut was 18ft. in ore worth 10 p.c. ; succeeded
by 30ft. bulking 25 p.c. The crosscut is now in 60ft.,
with ore still in the face ; the last 12ft. being in kaolin,
carrying six inches of black and red oxide varying from
25 p.c. to 50 p.c., the 12ft. bulking 15 p.c. It would
appear that these bunchy makes in the kaolin are the
limit of the w’idth of the ore body ; at any rate, there is
at this point 53ft. of ore. The prospecting shaft, vertical
to 125 ft., has been sunk 100 ft. on the underlie, and
carries with it the rich vein struck in the 125 ft. level.
Main shaft is down 154 ft., and is stopped until comple-
tion of winding gear, which should be going by the time
this sees print. Immediately north of the end of the
north drive a monkey shaft has been started, and is down
30ft. in 20 p.c. ore. The mine is being opened up ener-
getically, arid, most cheering fact of all, nobody is crying-
“ Hold 1 ” to the sinking.
* * » *
West Cloncurry’s Argylla North shaft (N.Q.),
after sinking 80ft. in schist, struck the big, pyritous
quartz body which show's in front of the lode at surface.
Lode should be struck at 100 ft. The West Cloncurry Co.
is doing the only development the Argylla has ever
known, although the Argylla freehold, which has the
biggest and most persistent outcrop on the Cloncurry
fields, has been held for nearly 30 years. Where is Kid-
ston’s promised measure to force the working of other
copper freeholds?
* * * *
Developments at Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) are
seriously retarded by scarcity of shaft timber. Also,
winding plants are wanted for sinking, as w'ater level is
shallow. But the ore is there, and when Hampden comes
it may be with a rush. The co.’s Duchess ore still main-
tains high values in all the shafts, but the lode is nar-
rowing.
* * * •
Wee Macgregor, Central, and Wallaroo, the
Corella properties of the Leichhardt Syndicate, Clon-
curry, are starting work. Values are good and lodes are
wide at surface, and the rest is for the future to say.
* * *
Richmond-Cloneurry railway is building at the
rate of three miles a week, from the Richmond end ;
which rate w’ill finish the first section of 90 miles by
March. That also is the estimate of William Pagan, con-
struction engineer.
* * * *
Highland Mary Blocks, Croydon (Q.), in 100,000
shares of Is. each, is floated on the strength of a Govern-
ment subsidy of £2500. Croydon is already'asking’for
another subsidy to explore the deep ground at the Golden
Gate. What about a proposal to allot Queensland some
shares in return for its speculation? It would be
socialistic for a Government to own and work a mine,
but it isn’t Sosh for Queensland to help to line the pockets
of Croydon speculators who will sit on the Highland Mary
directorate.
* * * '*
» Northern Territory mining reports are as mad
as ever. West Arm gold show has an outcrop of fair size,
but the sinking is all on an outside leader. From a hole
20ft. deep 4 tons 16cwt. was raised, and crushed for 270 z.
From that, the Southern press has imagined a reef 6ft.
wide, worth 6oz. In one place, the big outcrop samples
well, in others poorly, so it is evidently a case of the usual
short shoots so prevalent in the North.
• • • *
Earle Hermann’s Sydney syndicate has put up
the £2500 required for the four months’ option over the
Heskett-Moore iron and steel process rights; in that
time it is to form a co. of £750,000, with not less than
£200,000 of working capital; and the Heskett-Moore
people are to receive £40,000 cash and £275,000 in stock
in the new co. Tiib Bulletin has an idea that the
Heskett-Moore people would themselves very willingly
put up a good deal more than £2500 for four months if
they could get £40,000 cash and £275,000 in stock at the
end of the time.
* * * *
Dear B.—Par (B. 6/9/’96), quoting something
appearing in the local rag as to an alleged Cloncurry
Exploration Ltd. of mine, is wrong. There’s no such
thing, and there never was.—Randolph Bedford.
• « • «
Adelaide Stock Exchange’s gamble in the last
week in September included 30,300 O.Ks., 21,700 Rising.
Suns, and 21,100 Junction Norths. No other stock quite
reached the 10,000 mark.
* • * »
Another factor in reducing the mining costs,
especially in large mines, is the general use of the “ Little
Wonder” Hand Hammer and “One Man” Compressed
Air Drills. Broken Hill, and other N.S.W. Mines, a]so
Westralian Mines, use them extensively. The managers
favor these drills for their great strength and simplicity,
having only one working part; also for economy in air
consumption, as they require only about 25 feet of free
air per minute. In some of the hardest lodes at the
Barrier, “ Wonder” Drills bore over ljin. per minute, and
in softer country as much as sin. and Gin. per minute.
Messrs. W. and J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney,
have descriptive catalogues for those interested.*
* * * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being' built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [n.l
*** x *
The Register (Adelaide), of Ist June, 1905•
“The report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society shows that the society has had a prosperous year.
The increase in the volume of new business transacted is
large, having been practically £lOO,OOO more than in 1903.
The rate of interest yielded by the funds shows a
übstantial increase, which is particularly gratifying.”*
* * * »
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.,
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Prospectors.—Auriferous Deposits, con-
taining fine or coarse gold, successfully treated by a new
process. Send samples to Findlay, 19 Macquarie Place,
Sydney.*
*■»■*■•*
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field.
• » * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
B. H. Pascoe, stock and share broker, member
of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, 311 Collins-street,
Melbourne.*
* • « •
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties forpurchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
■* * ■* m
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberbero and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. *
* * * »
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside a,nd out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
a*. • a
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange). *
* • * *
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “ Hornsby ” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 Drake horse power at the cost of Id. per hour. The
mi nimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are : Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street. Mel-
bourne.*
• * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation lias taken careful advice
in connection with the large plant required at Broken
Hill, and has ordered Babcock and Wilcox water-tube
boilers with superheaters and mechanical stokers. This
order has been followed by the great firm of mining
. engineers, Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and Co., placing
orders with the same boiler company, in connection with
the South Blocks, also at the Hill. These instances
further prove the assertion that, wherever economy in
fuel and maintenance of boiler has to be seriously con-
sidered by competent engineers, the Babcock boiler is
installed. This company stock boilers at “ Haymarket,"
Sydney.*
* * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
ion on the field.*
* • « *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison and Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Nearly Choked to Death.
This is what happened to MISS ALICE KING,
Wellington, N.Z. Read what she says: “Last
winter I had a very bad cold, and one night was
attacked with such a severe coughing spell that I
really thought I would choke before I could arouse
someone in the house. lat last called my brother,
and sent him to the chemist for something to
relieve me. While he was away I had another
attack—no one knows how I suffered before he
returned. He brought back a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy, but my throat was so sore
from coughing I never thought I would be able to
swallow a dose.
“ I succeeded in taking a dose, which relieved
me, and after the fourth dose was able to go to
sleep, and did not cough again that night. *
“I continued taking it, and in a few days my
cold was completely cured. After my expejymce
I make a point of recommending Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to my friends.”
Throw off your colds. CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY will help you A
POSTCARDS.
A RTISTS, PHOTOGRAPHERS, &c., are invited to
submit Designs or Ideas suitable for Reproduc-
tion as Post Cards to HARDING & BILLING,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Liberal prices paid immediately on acceptance.
Local Postcards —Every storekeeper should stock
postcards of his own locality. Write for samples and
prices. A splendid line for Christmas.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Paul Cupid ” : In reply to “ Gip ” (B.
20/9/0(5). Snake poison—at least, so far as concerns
Australian snakes—affects all animals alike, and
its action is somewhat similar to that of an ordinary
narcotic poison. “ Gip ” can rest assured that the
acrbbatic ox she described —the one which stood
on its head, and had fits and gymnastics, after
being allegedly bitten by a tiger snake—wasn’t
bitten by a snake at all. In all probability, the
brute ate something that didn’t agree with it.
The only animal that will rush around and holler
after being bitten by a serpent is man ; but it
isn’t the snake venom that makes him fly round—
it is the dread that he is about to leave a world
that he always found fault with, and go to a world
where he has reason to fear fault will be found
with him. One of the most gruesomely humorous
things on earth is the spectacle of an archbishop
bitten by a snake —not that I ever saw one.
NO CONNECTION.
NEW-CHUM : “ What for you call
that fellow names! He's like
YOU and ME— British subject .”
WALLAYA JACK: “ Now , boss, you
just speak for you self.”
“ Agricola ” : There are big junks of sym-
pathy wasted on the magpies which lie dead in
the trail of the poison cart. Next to the crow.
Mag is the most mischievous of all birds, and,
even if it is the crow that extracts the eyes from
the sick sheep, he is very lucky if a mob of Mag
hooligans do not scol him off before he reaps much
reward from his industry. Then they gluttonise,
and old bottly-neck gets the blame. But Mag's
reputation is gradually living up to him. In the
Tumut (N.S.W.) district he is the worst fruit pest
going, and to see the workman-like manner in
which he skins the trees fills your heart with
admiration, provided they are not your trees.
The rabbiter’s opinion of Mag is.worth listening to,
and its fluency and profanity are only surpassed
when he catches the little finger of his right hand
in a new trap. After the rabbits have been
skinned, the skins are put on wires to stretch.
For the sake of the fragments of flesh which
adhere to them, or from pure cussedness, the mags,
pull the skins off the wires, and tear them about,
and in less than seven minutes a couple of them
can spoil seventeen skins. Even if they don’t tear
them up, the sun shrivels them before the trapper
gets back from shifting his traps, and again the
air becomes heavily charged with classic eloquence.
There is nothing better for killing all
infectious disease germs than Little’s Soluble
Phenyle. Try it in your bath ; use it generally
.throughout the household if you want comfort. No
vermin can live where it is used. It has 100
different uses. Ask your grocer for a bottle.*
‘ ‘ Philo ” ; Re longevity of cockatoos.
“ Hamer ” need not go so far from home as Eng-
land for an instance of the father of all fowls,
when Australia has a number of much older birds
on its premises than the one he quotes. Know of
several that will easily beat “Starr’s” 44-year-old
fledgling (B. lfi/8/’O6). Some years ago there was
at Blayney (N.S. W.) a cockatoo that had cele-
brated its 50th birthday, and it may be still
living. I know of another that departed this life
in its 88th year. Also, near Coonamble (N.S.W.), I
once came across a fine cockatoo considerably over
44 years of age. But the championship should go
to the bird owned by Mrs. Bennett, proprietress
of the hotel at Tom Ugly’s Point, Sydney. At
one time I paid it frequent visits, but my last call
took place 12 months ago, and its owner then
declared that she had convincing proof that it was
over 113 years old. It is a weird, decrepit-
looking creature, almost wholly devoid of feathers,
and its shrivelled, discolored skin, with an occa-
sional bit of fluff adhering weakly, is sparsely
stretched over a delicate framework of bones.
Also its beak is about three times longer than the
average, and suggests the drooping nose of the
oldest Shyloek on earth. The drift of years has
not interfered with the aged fowl’s vocal powers,
and it can still say “scratch cocky,” ana many
other things such as No, I’ll stop.
• « * *
“Quail”: Up Murwillumbah (N.S.W.
North Coast) way the people don’t allow pigs to
doss under their houses as do those mentioned by
“The Prooshan”(B. 13/9/’0(>), nor is the greatest
height of the blocks on which the houses are built
3ft. as in “The Prooshan’s” part of the Common-
wealth. I’ve seen some nearer 23ft. Much of the
town is built on a fairly high and somewhat pre-
cipitous hill, the main street running along it
about one-fourth of the way up. The houses on
the lower side of this part of the street —there are
none to speak of on the upper side—have their
front rooms flush with the footpath, or what does
duty for a footpath, while the back ones are, in
most cases, 15ft. in the air. The spaces beneath
the floors are used for various purposes—buggy-
sheds. wood-sheds, ferneries, wash-houses, har-
ness-sheds, and bath-rooms. In the last-named
cases hessian is tacked round the piles to prevent
undue publicity to the human wash.
* m * *
“ Burchie ” doesn’t believe that the dog
should be swung round your head by the tail :
To prevent a repetition of the accident that befel
“JSan’s ” pup (B. 15/10/’O6) I send you an old and reliable
remedy. I’ve seen it tried at least a dozen times, and
always successfully. When Tray has taken a bait he gets
thirsty, and makes a bee-line for the nearest waterhole.
If you can sprint, by all means head Carlo off. He foams
at the mouth, gets lockjaw, falls down, ami wishes he
were dead. Run swiftly to any old place where there are
the requisite ingredients, and get a handful of common
salt, mix with a cupful of luke-warm water, and force
down Towser’s throat. When he has swallowed it, hold
Rover oil his legs between your knees, and slap him
vigorously and simultaneously with your open hands on
both sides just behind the fore-legs. (This generally
makes a dog sick without anything else.) Keep this up
until he is an empty and vacant dog. Don’t feed him
when he’s hungry after the emptying process, but watch
him, and the odds are that, being a fool of a dog-, he’ll go
to the kind person who gave him the bait for more. Then
lull the kind person, flay him, hang the hide on the fence
to dry, and burn the remains.
“Bon” : In connection with recent case
of platypus poisoning, can anyone recall an in-
stance in which an iguana bite has been the direct
cause of poisoning ? I once saw an argument
’tween a cocky and a “go” which had taken
refuge—and a chicken —up a box sapling. The
cocky, axe in hand, went up the tree, and was met
half way by the “ go” hurrying down. It didn’t
wait to bite, but it clawed the agriculturist in
passing. The result was a lacerated wound a foot
long in the thigh, and in a few days this developed
acute blood poisoning Were the carrion habits
of the beast responsible—it is always clawing
dead things? (“Bon” quite omits, in his haste,
to say whether the cocky died or not.)
“ T.H.A.”: Re “ Drifter’s ” gumleaf band
(B. 30/8/’O6). I quite concur with him that good
music can be produced from the gumleaf; but I
would inform “Drifter” that the “band” is
not confined solely to the Shoalhaven River
blacks. During 1900 I was at Ooobiaby, on the
Flinders River (N.Q.), and there heard several
shearers play popular tunes on a leaf, such as
“ Why did I leave my little back room in Blooms-
bury?” Perhaps to-day they are warbling “Won’t
you come back to Born-Bombay ?”
A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
INDEFINITE.
BILL: “ I hear Jerry struck good gold after sinking two foot deeper in that shaft you left."
M‘G UIRE : “Be gob , thin , Oi'll never lave another shaft until I sink it two feet deeper .”
“A.Z.”: If Carruthers’ Gambling Bill
Settles the hash of the bush raffle in N.S.W.,
what on earth will we do the long winter
evenings? “Times are not what they was,”
says Old Cocky when the girls are smooging
round him to let them “give a little
darnce.” “Well, we’ll raffle something,” says
the eldest daughter, Polly Cocky, who has an
eye to business. I was at a raffle for a fat cow
once. There were three of us in camp, and we
pooled half-a-crown each, and stood in together
if we won. Now, I dearly love a dance, and the
infatuation of the bush cow-gamble didn’t get
hold of me till one of my mates threw 48. Then
it dawned on me that that cow was as good as
ours. I wanted to get a look at it—couldn’t wait
till daybreak. I got awfully excited, and my girl
gave me a good talking to. “Don’t make a damn
fool of yerself,” she said, “ yer ain’t won it yet.
There's a dozen more ter throw.” I took her in,
at her request, and whirled her through the
Lancers. Between sets I ran out and got the
latest reports of the throwing. “Still leading—
she’s mine,” said my mate. I dashed back just in
time, for they were yelling “sides,” and I
“ visited to the right ” with the air of a squatter
leading his lady through the mazy hop.
At last the mad whirl was over, the violin had
ceased its wailing, and the player was tum-
tumming on a loose string. I flopped my queen
on a broken-legged chair, and went off to the scene
of the excitement. My hopes were blasted. The
last thrower (Mr. Cocky) had tied our score, and in
the throw-off had beat us. “Rotten luck.” That’s
what everyone said except the girls, Jane, Char-
lotte, Emma, Sarah, Eliza, and Polly Cocky.
They knew that father was about £5 in pocket,
and still retained possession of the cow, and that
it wouldn’t be very hard to get him to raffle the
beast again next full moon, though, of course, he
couldn’t expect to win her every time. Three
weary, heavy-eyed men went back to camp next
morning, and as they tramped side by side, one
would look up woefully, and remark, “rotten
luck”; to which the others would answer as one
man, “My oath ! ”
“Gip ” : The other day I read something
in The Bulletin about a dear old gentleman who
thought he was a fowl. All this past winter I’ve
been watching a young magpie that thinks he’s a
parrot, and a nice mess he’s made of things.
When the other magpies, who insist on being
tame in spite of occasional bad treatment,' gather
round the door for scraps, the “ parrot-mag.”
sometimes tries to get a look in. But the others
will have none of him, and, with outspread wings,
they run him for his life. He sits on the fence
and shrieks pure parrot at them. Where he learnt
his parrotese I don’t know, but he’s got it perfect.
It is ludicrous to see him joining in the flight of
the gay, contemptuous parrots, bringing up a for-
lorn last, sitting on a briar, trying to enjoy the
red berries, and acting the idiot generally. Now
mating time is here I miss him, and I know quite
well he’s away in parrot-land eating out his heart
because the lady won’t have him.
“IONA.”
[For Tub Bulletin.]
I own I love Iona—
SIle owns that she loves me ;
sYe met on the Kanowna
When some miles out at sea ;
Anil the day that I can own her
How happy I shall be —
1 —ow ner of Iona,
And Iona owning me !
J own a cot called “Mona,”
Close by the sounding sta,
And when I own Iona
She’ll share that nest with me.
n.s.w. P. Jeff. Wallace
* * * *
“F.H.R.”: While discussing the prickly
pear plague in Queensland, it would be a good
idea to shake up the N.S.W. Government before
the spiky vegetable becomes a rampant botanical
hedgehog in its territory. On the big State land
reserves around Gilgandra pear has made its ap-
pearance this last five years, and is spreading like
the news of a pious man’s embezzlement. The
Government does no more to keep it down than it
does to exterminate the rabbits which also infest
these lands. Law and order should always set a
good example in such matters. It doesn’t look
well to see an intoxicated policeman running in a
tipsy citizen, or to hear a red-headed Government
calling out “Carrots.”
* * * »
“Not-rum” (who also asks for the loan
of 10s. to get his shirt out of pawn—a matter
which arouses suspicion, seeing that 2s. 6d. is
Uncle’s usual limit on a shirt): —
Re Gum-leaf Band on the shores of the Shoalhaven
River (B., 30/8/’06). I can corroborate “ Drifter’s ” state-
ments as to the manner in which the “moosik” is pro-
duced, but at the melody thereof I most emphatically
shy the brick. The darkies’ camp at La Perouse (N.S. W.)
is the proud possessor of one of these bands. It often
breaks out on a moonlight night when all is still and the
soul of man is at peace. Then the air is suddenly and
without warning split by sounds horrible and weird.
Assembled on a high peak of rock overlooking the water,
the Darkies’ Band blows out all the latest “toons.”
“ The Old Bull and Bush,” “ My Hottentot,” and the
inevitable “Gorsave” are conspicuous by their mutila-
tion, if this is not a contradiction. The conductor Is a
swarthy son of the almost annihilated race, and his age
tots up to some 16 seasons of discord on the gum-leaf. I
am a lone fisherman on the shores of Botany Bay, relying
for sustenance on my wily hook. Have seen a fleet of
fishing smacks, returning for the night with their hauls
of schnapper, come within the zone of melody, and be
blown out to sea again, only finding it possible to beat in
when the band had gone to roost.
* * * *
“ C.M.G.” : The difficulties of the widow
with a large family have been the theme of many
tales, but the widower with a bunch of kiddies on
his hands has received scant sympathy. I know
a shoemaker in a small Victorian town, a com-
paratively young man, who has five children, the
eldest nine, the youngest two. For a year and a
half he has been provider and housekeeper, and
has earned great credit in both departments.
Beside working eight or nine hours a day at his
trade, he washes, sweeps, scrubs, cooks, starches
and irons, and in the evenings patches and mends.
He can darn a worn stocking as neatly as any
woman I have known, and there are no youngsters
attending the local State school cleaner and
trimmer than his four kiddies, while his house is
as tidy as a small palace. The only assistance he
gets is from a neighbor, who takes charge of the
baby during school hours. My cobbler is not a
molly-coddle type of man that gets hustled into
doing the housework by a hard-faced frau ; he
weighs 14st., and some years ago was a redoubt-
able Melbourne footballer. I think he deserves a
medal as big as a cartwheel.
A MOREPORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hark to the witches,
Hags riding switches,
Straddled satis breeches
Down by the big rimu tree !
There’s a Tohunga
Squats ’neath a punga,
Boss of the high revelry.
List to the screaming !
What ! am I dreaming?
Only a morepork—only a morepork
Down by the big rimu tree.
What is that croaking?
Someone is choking
And God invoking
Down by the big rimu tree !
Hear how they stutter,
What oaths they utter?
Is it in pain or in glee,
Imagination,
And agitation ?
’Twas but a morepork—’twas but a morepork
Down by the big rimu tree !
Inhuman moaning !
Blood-curdling groaning !
Devils are spawning
Down by the big rimu tree.
“ Hey ! you who languish
In hellish anguish,
Mumbling uncannily . . . ! ”
Silence nerve-shaking,
How I am quaking !
’Twas but a morepork—’twas but a morepork
Down by the big rimu tree !
MAOK.ILANI).
COLIN C. BUREOCIL.


&
0
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A PURE & WHOLESOME SPIRIT.
Buy Whole Bottles.
LADIES’ “Fx&R” WATCH
At £6 6s.
Is a J-plate Lever. Has 15 Jewels.
Has a Kuby Roller Jewel.
Has solid heavy 14-carat double Gold Case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring-.
Has Compensated and Adjusted Balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for
2 years (breakages excepted) without charge.
Will stand HARD RIDING and KNOCKING ABOUT.
Is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuracy.
This is the same movement as is used by the Railway
Guards, only, of course, in a small size.
StWHV t LONDON
*°t. £6 6s
18ot
£7 78
Plain Figures
Strictly Cash
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“F.J.” : A gatekeeper on the tick fence
(Queensland border) is a State official. So, like-
wise, is Governor H. Rawson. The latter does not
care to leave his residence, and Surplus Car-
ruthers again takes it for a term of years at an
increase of £350 per annum in the rent. Now, the
gatekeeper—a man with a wife and eight children
—holds a position which also entitles him to a
residence. An unlined, two-roomed house is put
up, with one door in the front. But Carruthers
is an obliging sort, so he leaves an opening at the
back, and informs (or rather one of his underlings
does so) the gatekeeper if be wants a door at the
rear he must put it there at his own expense. As
I said before, Carruthers is obliging—he might
not have given even the opening. As a set-off
against the extra cost of “ Cranbrook,” there will
appear an item, “Savings on other official resi-
dences.”
“ Quidam ” : Skufchorp, the mighty man
of the motor-cap and the buckjumpers, has dis-
covered a magnificent lake in the interior of Aus-
tralia, which he compares to Lake Ontario. His
pardonable pride at this splendid geographical
achievement has received a heavy shock from
another weather-beaten Son of the Bush, who has
pointed out that it was in the middle of this
inland sea that the overland mailman from
Katherine River to Anthony’s Lagoon perished
A COMPLICATION.
SHE : “ Erect form, I suppose.”
HE : “I don't know about wrecked form. She
cost me a tenner this afternoon, but the cove
that runs her says that she's a stayer and can
pace it with anything. It was a tight squeeze,
and ”
SHE: “What do you mean? ”
HE: “ The horse. What do you mean?”
four years ago for want of a drink. Evidently
struck the locality after a heavy
* * * *
A block of land, near Fernbank, on the
Gippsland railway (Vic.) is at present growing a
tine crop of wheat. It is the sort of sandy soil
that covers some 5,000,000 acres of S.E. Victoria
—the “heath” country, as it is called—and the
present crop is the first ever grown in that
paddock. Private Enterprise had held all along
that it was such poor country that it would never
be any good ; then State Socialism took a hand
and sent an agricultural chemist along. He put
‘°a ,? er acre i of superphosphate on the “ useless
sand, and to-day he sees there the finest crop in
Hippsland.
“ D.T.H.” : The other day I saw a kooka-
burra pounce down on a snake, and carry it up in
the air about ten feet. Whereupon the serpent
shed its skin in the mouth of the kookaburra and
sjid to the ground. The bird laughed the other
side of its beak for a thoughtful five minutes, and
again dropped down on the snake, which curled
its tail round a sapling and fought the jackass for
half-an-hour. Then a pig came along and the
bird flew away. The pig approached the snake,
which tried to fascinate it, but the pig merely
grunted and ate the snake.
* m •* *
“Nulla”: Most of the land around
Bathurst (N.S.W.) has been worked under tenant-
farmer conditions from the
beginning, and as tenant-
farming means—this was
pointed out by you in a
recent issue—working
the ground to the last
straw, and giving back
nothing in the shape
of manure, the soil is
played out. There was
plenty of good soil
around Bathurst—
which might well have
been “ The Old Town ”
of a recent Bulletin
article ; nevertheless
the place goes steadily
down. How heavy the
big-landlord curse is on
the City of the Plains
a single instance will
show. About 15 or 20
years ago the local race
club usually a good
guide as to a district’s
prosperity gave some-
thing like £9OO for the
annual two - days’ prize
money. Nowadays there are
no races, and the State Experi-
mental Farm is on the site of the old course.
It is indeed a dead, heart-broken town which
can’t raise a horse-race.
* * * *
“Winkle”: The turkey-hen is hard to
beat as a “sitter.” During the deluge that
swamped Noahville, in the middle of September,
a turkey-brooder, that had been forgotten when
goods and chattels were being shifted out of
danger, was found sitting hard on a clutch of
eggs, with the flood-waters lapping her out-
stretched gills. She was removed and tied up •
but directly she was released she hastened back to
try to resuscitate her addled clutch. I believe
she would have dived for them if she had been
allowed.
* * * *
“ Douglas T.” : This is an incident of the
big drought. In the neighborhood of Swan Hill
(Vic.) an ancient Hibernian identity had a selec-
tion. On about 200 acres he had sown wheat.
When harvest time came round he cut the crop
himself with a scythe and carted it away in a
wheelbarrow—the whole lot of it. He got as far
as the pub. Feeling thirsty after his exertions
he went inside to have a “ long ’un.” When he
came out to stack the crop, he found a starving
cow had eaten the whole annual produce of 200
acres inside a quarter of an hour.
“Agricola”: The Betting Act has been
brought before our eyes prominently just lately,
now that the raiding of the betting shops is
systematically indulged in. But it seems that in
N.S.W. the odds-yielding fraternity can always
escape, owing to the difficulty of defining a
“place.” Some day a satisfactory de nition will
arrive, and then the House of Palestine will rise
up and call my name blessed for the piece of
information which follows. It could save
itself all its trials and tribulations, and con-
tributions to the Treasury, by looking up
the geography of N.S.W. About seventy miles
up the river from Albury, and near the Tooma
Federal Capital site, is a little settlement known
as No Place. The name is officially recognised in
the Lands Office, and though they have no post-
office yet, letters addressed to No Place, via
Tumbarumba, get there. By putting a strain on
the inward optic of the mind, I can see No Place
quite a big place in the future, with stately
Tattersall’s Clubs adorning it, and impotent
policemen raving outside. For what could the
P.M. do when confronted with the simple state-
ment that no offence had been proved, as the
betting had been carried on at No Place. Land
can be bought there at £1 an acre, so there is a
boom likely. The origin of the name is unknown,
but tradition has it that the first settler reckoned
it was “no place for white men,” and named it so.
* * * *
Not. only can the white man do the work
required in the North Queensland canefields,
despite the lies of anti-Sosh and co., but
he is doing it with ease and frills, and
is beginning to put up records. Recently Albert
Chapman gave an exhibition, at Kolan, on a
30-ton crop, and he cut 9 tons 17cwt. in hours.
He now asks all competitors to come on. At
2s. 6d. a ton he would have earned, in an eight
hours day, 255., which is good enough to cause a
rush to N.Q. next season by men anxious to earn
cheques. It is already shown that one willing
white man, instead of being unable to do the
Kanaka’s work, does as much as four Kanakas.
* * * *
“Argo”: The following extract from
“ Life and Explorations of David Livingstone ”
is interesting in connection with the proposed
importation of rabbit exterminating ants, men-
tioned and pictured in recent Bulletin :
Crossing the Coanza and several of its tributaries they
reached Tala Mungongo, where they made a short stay,
and suffered from a plague of red ants which were so
numerous and so formidable that slaves were obliged to
sit up all night burning fires of straw round the
slaughtered carcase of a cow, otherwise the insects would
have devoured it. These ants march in a compact band,
several inches wide, and attack man and every animal
crossing their track. The pain caused by their bites is
compared by Livingstone to that produced by sparks of
fire falling upon the bare skin. They perform consider-
able service by devouring any carrion they come across,
and by eating the white ants, rats and mice, small snakes,
and even the large pythons, when they find them in a
state of surfeit.
And some acclimatisation fiend wants to bring
this warlike horror to our country to eat the sheep
and Joe Cook.
A VOICE FROM THE TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Could I quit the sreary street, where unceasing footsteps
heat,
And go back to the Wimmera—its voice for ever calls ?
Could I leave this dingy town, that has caught and
chained me down,
And cast the irksome shackles, and fly the prison walls ?
Drear and long have been the days, hard and mean have
been the ways
That have witnessed to the wasting of the years of hope
and youth ;
Many longings have I known in this world of brick and
stone,
Encompassed with conventions that cramp the soul of
Truth.
Perhaps when I am grey, when I’ve passed my fuller day,
When the twilight gathers round me and the sap of youth
is dry,
They will spare my presence then from the van of toiling
men,
And with a meagre pittance to the country shall I hie.
Yet I doubt if, in decline, will its glories be as fine,
Will they touch the jaded spirit' that so longed for
sweeter things ?
Will the songs of wind and rain echo plaints of age and
pain—
Will I find eternal winters where I hoped for tender
springs?
Ere the time of senile wane, ere rheumatic ache and pain
Shall have claimed me, kindly Fortune, let me seek the
outer wall ;
Let me cast convention’s chains, be a farer on the plains,
Feel the seasons in my blood, hear the wild bush-spirits
call.
Then would hidden pulses beat, calling out a greeting
sweet
To the evening and the morning, to the bird and flower
and tree —
You, that trod the dusty street,, would, with young and
happy feet,
Journey toivards the golden sunset, at the eventide, with
me.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
A SEE SAWSTORY
SEET3.LL AND gILIIS donah so grand,
UPON TI-tE SEE-SAW AT THE ;FAIR !
WHILE BILL IS way down ON the 'lano,
©ilUs DONAH is HIGH in the AIR.
Nfow 51LL DEEP IN LIQUOR HAD DIPPED.,, I
The see-saw, too, made bill feel sore n
30 T’WASNT BILLS fault WHEN g, ILL.
JHAT BILH 6NO WAS NEAREST THE FLOOR
j3lLl_’:> DONAH C.AME SNiACK. TO
THE GROUND
SHE bounced and she bounded
and BuroPED
IJPjDOWN , IN AND OUT. ALU AROUND
/and T’WASNT -TOO soft where <
SHE TH9Mre&;
gILL'S Laugh it was lood.it was
Shrill
Sill thought it an excellent
JEST
Bill shrieked and bill shouted
UNTIL
C.HE landed her weight on
P>VLLS CHEST-
ALF. BRASCH.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
S.M.J. (Tar.): We have said it befare. The
only really good thing that was ever deliberately put
into The Bulletin’s wastepaper-basket was a fox-temer
pup, which a friend broughc us as a present one morning,
and it was only deposited there temporarily for safe
keeping C.A.W. : There’s more in a name than you
think. You say that “a man isn’t necessarily an
Ebenezer kind of man simply because he has been christ-
ened Ebenezer.” If there is anything in the law of
heredity, he is. The persons responsible for a child’s
surname are usually his parents, and if they weren’t
Ebenezers at heart, they wouldn’t label their kid
Ebenezer. The man who signs his name Jedediah is
generally an hereditary Jedediah... .H.B. (Vic.): No
literary chance Oar: It’s not contemptible, but it
shows no special gift....lris J. : Very weak in places ;
and, anyhow, the Australian black doesn’t use the U.S.
“coon” dialect T.G.M.S. : The Heavenly Gate idea
has been worked very often, and much better. “ Major ’’
is poor stuff Spectator: “Copper for 7£d.” rather
vapid H.S. : “Nature’s Stage” only a statement in
verse about the weather. We have thoughts about
abolishing weather.. Wanga : “ Chinese Sport ” misses the
’bus so narrowly that it gets mud-splashed by the wheels...
E. : The versification slops over in too many places....
Hathi : Mostly grandiloquent nonsense... .E.K.S.P. :
Doesn’t nearly reach publication level J.G.D. : Could
do nothing with that Cam : Too trifling and fragmen-
tary R.P. : You have our sympathy, but, alas! sym-
pathy won’t give your lines print-value 11.T.F. : None
of them above third-class.... Bena : Surreptitious horse-
changing is such an old race-story incident that only
really brilliant treatment would carry it C. Lacoste :
“ The Sea ” is the best of the lot—-and not very good at
that....J.S.A. : Neat, but conventional and featureless.
....Judex: Amusing, bub much too long-winded....
F. : Good comedy in it, but the treatment isn’t crisp
and buoyant enough... .L.C.H. : Too crude and unskilful,
but amusing and somewhat promising Cornflower:
Requires more vigor and vivacity M.H. (Melb.): Fairly
well written, but somewhat out of our line W.T. :
Pars pretty fair ; verse, indifferent Sikabee: Too
rough and loose-jointed... .J. Fin: Verse hardly good
enough ; even if there were any use in once more putting
the question which no theologian has ever been able to
answer... .J.H. : “Yes-No” has a point here and there,
but the bulk is poor Cyril V. : “Cup Day,” besides
being grievously belated, lacks freshness of observation and
spirit of style... .P.C.: Doggerel of the deepest d0g....
A. 8.: No demand for conundrums, and that concertina
jokfc has been sent in by half-a-dozen people A.F.K. :
Your Judkins verse hardly gets down to the subject '
P.P.: You say nothing new about the Bush—only state
in rather irregular verse that you long for it H.G.F.:
Climate of Philippines can be best judged from principal
products—hemp, sugar, coffee, rice, tobacco-leaf; the
islands have 120 miles of rail; another 70 miles are under
construction ; and the U.S. Government is hawking con-
cessions for another 1000 miles H.R. MeD. :
Decently well-written, but the humor is rather cheap and
obvious... .Old Salt: A bit far-fetched and artificial....
H.O.R. : Theme trite and treatment trifling Hera:
The sonnet is slightly bathetic, and the sketch isn’t im-
pressive Sunbeam : Sorry not worth print Kenneth
H. : The style is weak and floundering J.C.H. :
A'.long way below the literary mark J.H.E.:
Thanks. Will use... .Hastings: One will probably serve..
Patience: Reads like a very ordinary elopement
W.J.C. : The father who boots the lover off the premises
is a dead joke, and always was.... Barefoot Jimmie:
Good bit of description if you only had something more
to describe C.B. : The Bulletin is Australian and to
Australia one State is nearly as important as another....
11. B. : Possibly very pathetic, but it’s jolly hard to read.
No time to wade through the illegible to the probably
useless... .Neddie : You’re the sort that would turn up
your nose at Paradise if the name wasn’t up at the gate
on a brass plate... .Nosral: Ancient gag, that of the
mining expert and the lump of washing'soda ; but some-
times it is a dried-up potato, that has been worn as a
fetish against rheumatism, that the expert gives a learned
geological name to.. ..Tuan: To deport white women
married to Kanakas would shock public feeling. But
there should be a stringent law against inter-race
marriages.. ..C.E.T. : And the fatman who doesn’t con-
tribute to a voluntary fund to build our Australian navy
is, on the whole, quite right. It’s the duty of Parliament
to see that he contributes to an involuntary fund.
We don’t want to build a navy out of a charity
fund but out of the consolidated revenue
G.H.T. : You wish to become “regular composer of
poetry to The Bulletin.” Certainly. You are hereby
appointed our Poet Laureate, with the right yearly to
one keg of Madeira (provided you pay for it), and as
much beer as you can get with your poet’s license. But
you mustn’t write any poetry. Judging from your prose,
it would be too awful... .Lulu : (1) Not worth while
defending Peter Airey against the sneers of the Brisbane
Worker. It would only give wider circulation to jealous
attacks that really don’t matter. (2) Glad to get stuff o
the sort. (3) We never disclose identity of correspond-
ents A.P. : Don’t care much for “ Discussion.” But
why say “ Don’t return ” ? For all you know, the one
joy of our life may lie in returning things.
Unsuitable : W.W.R., G.W., J.O’M.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
N.G.M. : Letter received, saying you send sketches.
Also, quite a number of different sketches received with-
out names or addresses, some of which are, presumably,
yours. Why not simply put name and address on back
of sketch?... .M.S. : lie “ Puzzled.” Never saw a man of
quite that shape before Joe R. : Very faint sketch.
Wouldn’t reproduce except as outline of" ghost Leo:
Very quiet joke. Picture only moderate H.J. : That
“grace before meat ” joke isn’t fresh C.T.S.: Sorry to
say, can see no promise at present A.J.8.: Should say
figures in “After the Earthquake” were copied from
another drawing H. J. : Joke about all these has-
pirates is very haged F.K. : A picture which
requires printed explanations on it is always at a dis-
advantage Unknown: Impoverished drawing; grey-
haired joke C.F.J. : Can’t undertake to point out
faults in a case like that. There are so many.. ..8.R.:
Unless Little Tommy can say something brighter than
that he had better retire Geo. H. : The only “joke”
about your letter was that it cost 2d. for deficient postage.
What a funny dog you are ! C.W.H. : Photo, wouldn’t
reproduce well Thos. G. : Chestnut Holger L. :
Your style of art is not a thing to be taken seriously
J. Ryan : Sketches so dim and indefinite that they would
reproduce as mere smudge S.M. : Show some glimmer
of promise, but work very crude as yet Unsuitable:
T.G.
Review of Reviews Filchitfc, whose
doughty shears sweep (printed) battle scenes,
full of dead and dying, with a lordly sweep, and
cut out with a firm hand accounts of the trim-
mings of ladies’ morning gowns, was apprenticed
in early life to, and followed for some years, the
vigorous, manly business of a stonemason. Most
people, considering his firm grip of the scissors,
would rather suspect him of drapery.


%. I
’LM ,c s W| N say.
bits S Q)*frr>^ n .' (C^noerot.)
. T zl ~
I hose tfjrcWn aft"hrje interrupted &
pi«i« S«'”'i'e"(3 u dKi^) r /
raises tffe Oc«eshon(T , ' '
to wbaf'S ikvil,a,t i s ~ H// J§k
not' divine service —: (f &e&s§&
****&«. ■ ap
Ss^||
Will CnntTnoO. "to N
bttf' its *I" ,VT .>
I tfe MeriaJ •
[Ar^sj
liSvtr a^cVore
(jodncillor
of
V» Children
fj\tK proper respect" ,
for property .**
Tm *S *
Of Councillor
Naylor fdefcJ
boy
who I?*s resM
'[or f>ro|>«tfy j
Outsider:—(bK«2kKM7g m o« tfie K«ly kis^
"AH! - I yer ! ;
sheJ>Wd • " 'o* d*rey<m
divine service Sir J'
n>ro|»oys^
"tje H^ oor
=/' t?e oo*rd oj-
y s< H^ r,r,e
' into
Controlling body
" [P* ;i y hh k l
"“N. X x
"We ' in cHWe
k jswV' "TjffflW
H o°r H
I! i
iv " Untit we regain ook
respect for itrdt'ndMad
enterprise }>ess<ir>isn> will be
rife m s!’'
for Life ..
"^force-
"Hfe Senate. i$ fii^e^ey
m '«' r °rK *
fA?«)
T/e "tstfl-end <>£ SesS'on
MELBOURNE FRIVOLITIES.


AN ATTEMPT TO DRAW HIS FIRE.
No one except Mr. Deakin can tell what the Deakin policy is, and he tells a changing story every day. What is his policy with respect to Socialism and its advocates ?— ARGUS.
Granny: “Garn, leave ’im alone, and do some fightin'!" Alfred the Affable: “But I am fighting.”
Granny: “N you ain’t. I ’aven’t seen you 'it t is once yet.”


QWU
Theiwohld’s
DeriKfrice
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Norton has been appointed R.C.
Bishop of Port Augusta.
It is a heavy handicap for a “social
reformer ” to have inherited the name of Judkins,
anyhow.
The Age lately notified that W. Holman’s
picture, “The Light of the World,” had been
returned to Melbourne, and would be hung in the
Public Gallery for a week or so. Holman!
Fame !
“There is Mr. Croker, who does the
deportment for the V.R.C. committee. It is a
sight for the gods to see him receive a State
Governor, strolling along the terrace at Fleming-
ton, fresh from the hands of the dressmaker.”—
Jack Murray, in Vic. Assembly debate
on the Gambling Bill.
Two of the best-known coaching names of
the N.S.W. mulga country have got on to coffins
within a fortnight—those of “Charley” Charters
and “ Joe ” Denison. Charters was one of an old-
established family of horsey brothers. To
Denison is ascribed the invention of that guileful
coaching gamble, “Bottle looand he was the
hereof more than one Bulletin yarn.
Even on the West Coast of Maoriland
Richard Seddon was aggravatingly mortal. At
Grey mouth and in the vicinity, no less than three
meetings, which were called to consider what
steps should be taken to perpetuate the dead
Jong s memory, lapsed because only the con-
veners rolled up.
Dead, in Westralia, the father of Premier
Newton Moore, aged 7(i. He owned a large slice
of Bunbury, and was not remarkable for gene-
rosity. The old man was inordinately proud of
being the father of a Premier, and the last few
months of his life ware mostly spent in narrating
interminable anecdotes uncut the l(i-stone majali.
HIS NATURAL FATE.
Theatrical manager has dropped into a restaur-
ant for lunch and recognised in the waiter an
ex-member of one of his companies.
WAITER: “I suppose, sir, you are surprised to
see me here? ”
MANAGER : “ Not at all — I’ve seen you act.”
“O’Fipp”: Perhaps Marion or ‘‘Bill’ 7
Edwards, the female horse-trainer who has been
masquerading as a man in Melbourne and Bris-
bane, was inspired by one of Nat Gould’s “ Aus-
tralian” sporting narratives. The heroine of the
book in question, disguised as a jockey-boy
steers a mare to victory in the Grand National
steeplechase at Flemington. Give me Nat Gould
and Judkins for veracious turf history. If I can’t
have them the Rev. Woodfull will do.
Earl Belmore is the oldest of ' the ex-
Australian Governors living. Born in 1835 he
became Governor of New South Wales in 1868
and resigned in 1872, having saved coin enough
to lift the mortgages off his Irish estates. At liis
tarewell levee only thirty persons attended ' A
big crowd assembied at Circular Quay to see'him
oil, but it was to make sure that he had reallv
g( T ,A® A v Y,as, he remained on board the ship
—the historic Sobraon—for the night, wind-bound
and next day sent to the Treasury a voucher for
an extra day s pay—and got the money. As a
cabbage-grower and dealer, the ex-Governor beat
the Chinlae community hollow.
G. D. Clark, a widely-known Cold Tea-
fanatic, has been selected as one of theN. S. W. Labor
bunch for the Senate at the ensuing elections.
The organised Sydney and suburban vote
dragooned into supporting the daily press ticket’
practically decides the Senate contest in N S W ’
and if any man can split that vote it is a’candi’-
date who can command solid party support such
as Anti-Beer promises Clark. The publicans -
such as Andy Kelly—who have influence over
Labor politics, are up in arms and threaten dis-
loyalty and schism. Which is ill-advised. Liquor
legislation is beyond control of the Federal
authority, and the guile of the serpent suggests
putting an ardent Cold Tea in a place where he
can’t even mention Cold Tea without being
stopped on a charge of irrelevancy. t
James J. Taylor, the lately deceased
son of old Parliamentarian Hughie Tay-
lor, retired to his beloved Parramatta when
Dibbs was king. The N.S.W. Colonial Secre-
tary’s office exhaled a strong odor of Parra-
matta for many years, but the cutting off of
Critchett Walker and Hughie’s son thinned the
atmosphere. James Taylor’s patriotism was
wholly Parramattan ; his world was in the ancient
borough, and the history of civilisation began for
him when Sam Marsden started his female con-
vict factory on the side of the hill. He was a
member of the local council, he knew every build-
ing and most of the trees, and could talk endlessly
of old times and the great men who lived when
vice-royalty made Parramatta its home.
An anomalous kind of “ dummy ” is W. G.
Sprigg, of Melbourne, accountant, man of affairs,
and secretary of the Tramway Co. His name is
always on those non-committal epistles that com-
mence, “I have the honor to acknowledge,” and
proceed “ I am to state ” as little as may be in as
verbose a fashion as possible ; but W.G.S., though
nominal secretary, has no office in the big tram-
way building, and seldom visits it uncalled for.
The hand that loads the gun belongs to H. A.
Wilcox, the assistant sec. and practical manager,
at £2OOO a year; Sprigg merely pulls the trigger.
The position of Francis B. Clapp, managing
director, is much the same ; he is now, unfortu-
nately, almost blind, and very feeble. Sprigg,
though well on in years, is a ruddy-faced, fatnerly-
looking gentleman, with flowing, grey mutton
chops, and an inscrutable expression.
Randolph Bedford was one of several
possible candidates, in the Labor interest, for
Hume Cook’s Victorian constituency, and the
possibles were called upon to justify their claims
before a union audience, each orator being limited
to half-an-hour. Bedford had only found his second
breeze, and was going like a windmill with the
load off when his time-limit struck. The orator
was deaf to the gong, and the chairman leaned
over and pulled his coat. Bedford took in a fresh
load of wind, and started another flow of demo-
cratic sentiments, and presently Mr. Chairman
took another tug. No effect. The chairman
seized the eloquent bard by the sleeve, and shook
it, and cried, “Mr. Bedford! Mr. Bedford!”
Randolph undid a button—still orating—slid off
his coat, and turned and handed the garment to
the interfering official. “ Here, for Heaven’s
sake, take the thing,” he said, and he resumed
his address in his shirt sleeves. That is to say,
be resumed it when the audience had its laugh
out.
Tnit has booted the senseless “Smoking
Prohibited ” notices off the Victorian railway
premises. The Canadian is
eternally chewing one end of a
cigar and blowing a cloud from
the other end, which is doubt-
less why a fellow smoking
makes him wondrous kind.
Otherwise, he is a tiger for
notices.
“Cattle king” Kidman
resembles the deceased Jimmy
Tyson in many ways. He
runs the biggest cattle
business in the Com-
monwealth, yet
keeps practi-
cally no books.
He carries in
his head a note
of the number
of stock run-
ning on his
numerous sta-
tions in Queens-
land, Victoria,
and S.A. ; also,
he remembers
hi s travelling
stock, his bank
balances, and all
the rest, and does
it with an accur-
acy that satisfies
himself, and more
than satisfies
people who try to
work points on
him. His beloved
topics of conversa-
tion are cattle,
horses and sheep,
about any of which
he can become elo-
quent, even to a sun-
downer. Mrs. Kidman
joins with her husband in
plain living, if not in cow-
thinking. The only child is a boy of six. It is
calculated that the rise in stock during the past
year or so added a quarter of a million to Kid-
man’s wealth and the boy’s inheritance. When
Kidman makes a quarter-million he doesn’t note
it down ; he just remembers it.
The offer of a place on the High Court
Bench to Sammy Way was no doubt in the nature
of a formal courtesy, it being well known that the
little Chief of Adelaide has no taste for the ex-
tensive travelling that a High Court billet entails.
Sammy is the most domesticated of religious
lawyers, and has lately added to his hobbies car-
pentry, blacksmithing. and astronomy. He is
now half-way into his 71st year.
“Along the Line,” writes in th* North-
ern Miner (Q.), about a drive he had one Sunday
with Kidman, the “ Cattle King ” :
Kidman took me to visit a farm twelve miles away.
On the way, he stopped to yarn with all the old residents,
and they all styled him “ Sid ”... As we passed a paddock
in which were some bullocks, he noticed that the wires
were broken... Kidman said that “poor old Bill’s bullocks
would get out.” He got down from his trap, and spent
half-an-hour mending the fence.. . An old woman was
seen driving a cart with a load of cabbages—with white
hearts. Kidman bought a dozen for ss. and paid 6d. for
a bag to hold his purchase... Further on, a road party
was lounging about a fire. They had corned beef
boiling... Kidman looked into the meat tin, and held up
a big white-heart cabbage... The men caught on, and
the biggest cattle owner in Australia sold them a dozen
cabbages at 6d. each, thus making 6d. profit, allowing for
the cost of the bag.
About an old Bohemian :
Edward James Wangenheim, who died at Darlinghurst
on 24th Sept., was a son of dear old Gus. Wangenheim,
the Sydney boniface and caricaturist, of Bohemian
memory. Among other stories told of Gus. (who, by the
way, was a Jew himself), it is related that one day in
the caf6 a locally-bred, exqusite young man with a
“ colonially’’-acquired English “haw” in his speech,
grievously offended Wangenheim by his patronising airs.
Presently Gus. sat down at a marble-topped table, and
began to draw on it with a charcoal-stick. In a few
strokes he produced a grossly funny picture of a hungry-
looking man with a colossal Hebrew nose toiling in the
shafts of a barrow, and when one of the lookers-on
inquired who was the nosey man with the barrow, Gus.
informed the company, with great unction, that that was
® noted old colonist, uncle of Mr. Conkenheimer (the
haw ” young man with the eyeglass and the lemon-
colored gloves, doncherknow), with the fish-hawking
apparatus in which he laid the foundations of the family
superiority.
Sidney Kidman has kept his last year’s
promise to put 2000 horses into the sale-ring at
Kapunda (S.A.). Last year 1150 were sold. This
time the first day’s sale averaged £2l per head,
and the first three days totalled £10,700.
MacMahon, of Wentworth, George Kiss, of Kiss’s
Bazaar, and a dozen purchasers for India were
round the ring. Kidman opened proceedings
with a characteristic speech. “When I passed
through this town in 1871 I had one horse, and he
had one eye, and the only chap I knew was
mj T self. To-day I’m the largest owner in Aus-
tralia. I got a bill yesterday for £4622, rent for
16 stations in Queensland. Now, let’s get to
work ! ”
A minor political problem is : “ What shall
we do with Bruce Smith?” Bruce stands in a
class of his own. When this stout vision,
with adipose tissue falling over his collar
in folds, plump hands, podgy bingy, and j
hair plastered down with pomade or bear’s
grease—-this incarnation of sacred Fat—
floats into the arena, he lets loose a
cultured accent and turns out the
dullest, fattest, and most prosy
oration ever recorded. Spruce
makes random statements and then
challenges the world to contradict
him. Lately Webster, Harper,
and Manger each in turn flat-
tened him out like a pancake
with some simple facts. It looked
like slaughter, but My th is so cock-
surein his ignorance that he is im-
pervious to reason. His strength
is his density. As he is water-
tight against fact, argument and
proof, and hermetically sealed to
common sense. Spruce is never
beaten. He blabs on and on, and
has the front to call the special
attention of the Prime Minister
to his dreary drivel. Some parts
even of a rhinoceros or elephant
can be pierced when you know
how, but no traveller has yet been
able to penetrate into the dark
jungle recesses of the 13. Smith
intellect. A cotiple of earth-
quakes couldn’t convince him of
anything.
“ L. ” writes about Johnson :
I sing a song of praise to Johnson, obstructionist John-
son, long-winded Johnson, of the House of Representa-
tives. Johnson is the champion obstructionist of all
time. He can fall wordily across the path of Parliamen-
tary business, and stick there with verbose dulness, with
greater persistency than any other man who ever
breathed. Last week Johnson lay in the road of progress
for a whole night. Little Kelly-motor and Joe Cook
assisted him by rising occasionally, but for nine hours
it was Johnson—Johnson—Johnson who really kept
flying the flag of foolish impediment. As a consistent
preventer of work, Johnson is unrivalled. Kelly is
ingenious and insulting in the business ; Bill Wilks'is a
discursive hero at it; but Johnson is the solid standby.
He is dulness unrelieved. Kelly, on all occasions, is
vapid ; Wilks is wearisome when he speaks seriously, but
entertaining as a stone-waller ; Johnson is drab, forlorn,
and hopelessly uninteresting in all circumstances. But
he obstructs ! His mode of achieving great length in his
speeches is to repeat the same statement in seven dif-
ferent forms before he leaves it. He says : “The Austra-
lian people will not stand this. lam sure it will
not be tolerated by the community, nor will
this country have the patience to bear it. I
say that the electors of this continent will not
put up with it any longer, and our constituents will
strongly object to enduring it for any period of time.”
On the night when Johnson, Kelly and Cook delayed
business for nine hours, Johnson was on his feet for seven
hours of the nine. Me must have talked miles of Hansard.
Therefore I hasten to spread his fame. I want all John-
son’s friends to know that we have in him the worst and
dullest obstruction that ever afflicted the body politic.
If this par is too long for its theme, blame Johnson.
Characteristic story of the late George
Dibbs. When N.S.W. Premier he was one after-
noon talking to another man
outside the Reform club, in
Macquarie-street, Sydney,
when a very smartly-appointed
pri vate hansom, occupied by a
fashionably-dressed lady of 30
years or so, and drawn by a
restive horse, stopped at the
kerb. The lady essayed to
alight, but the horse plunged
so violently that she continued
to stand on the footboard and
hesitated to descend. Seeing
this, the Premier stepped for-
ward and politely raising his
hat, held out his hand. The
lady twice refused to take his
offered hand—declined, in fact,
even to see it. Then Premier
Dibbs stepped back, and when
he did so she jumped and
would have fallen on her pretty
little nose but for the big
politician who, darting at her,
grasped her by one hand and
the opposite arm. Holding
her up for a few seconds the
old giant fairly shook her.
“Madam,” he said, “you are a rude woman ! It
is such people as you who make men uncivil.
I wish you good-day and better manners.”
If Isaac A. Isaacs goes to the High Court
Bench (which may Heaven prevent, for Australia
has much need of him in Parliament), one
Pooley, J.P., of Bethanga, is mentioned as a
possible successor. Pooley believes in Anti-
Socialism, in a shilling local rate charged on a
valuation that is less than half the real worth
of the property (practically a sixpenny rate), in
getting grants from the State at the expense of
the city worker for bridges and road repairs, in
dependence on the Ma Country for defence, in
big estates, in cheap imports, and in the destruc-
tion of Australian industries. The drop from
Isaacs to Pooley would be a bigger one than the
villain does when he falls down the property
precipice in the melodrama.
Arthur Streeton, Australia’s greatest land'
scape-painter, will in a month or two re-visit his
native land. May the gifted “Smike” now elect
to stay here for good and all, and again paint for
us pumpkin-patches on the Hawkes’oury ' This
time, he would undoubtedly find a profitable
market, for Ins old work is tightly held and
highly - prized. The
Bulletin hasn’t seen
one single Streeton
painting for sale these
three years. „
AS IT WAS SINCE THE TIME OF CHRYSOS.
RETIRED DRAPER (now a “ hart patron”): “ Your
nymph ain't nice. Why, she's only got cheap
butter-cloth on.”
An old Sydney native passed out recently
at Bexley (N.S.W.). Mrs. Elizabeth Cartwright
was born in 1817. Her father was Captain
Arnold Fisk, a Tasmanian pioneer ; her mother a
daughter of Captain Eber Bunker, after whom was
named Bunker’s Hill, on the Sydney Rocks, where
the push comes from. Captain Bunker came to
Sydney in 1793, and lived for some years with his
family in a cottage on the south-eastern corner of
Pitt and Hunter-streets.
Allan M‘Lean is to be op-
posed by Ministerialist G. H. Wise for the Gipps-
land (Vic.) seat. Wise is a lawyer at Sale, a director
of the A.N.A., and a staunch Protectionist and
Australian. In the Federal Bill campaign he
stumped Gippsland and Flinders against M‘Lean,
who was, and is, a bitter provincialist. Wise re-
fused to oppose M ‘Lean at the first Federal
election, as the Maffra Scotchman was then a
supporter of the Australian party. Now that the
crafty veteran has joined the Reid-cum-Cook cabal
against native industries, trouble is preparing for
him.
THE HIDDEN FOES.
Australia will continue to put its trust in the Imperial
navy, and we shall all sleep the more soundly because we
feel that the trust is not misplaced.—ARGUS.
GAMP: “Now, by-bye! Sleep comfy, dear.”
hile Lionel Terry, the gentleman who
wrote, “ I have this day put to death one China-
man,” was at large lately without a legal permit,
having left his lunatic asylum with considerable
breakage, the police ran round Christchurch
arresting every gentlemanly-looking man who was
over 6ft. high. Some fearful scraps took place
with these tall gentlemen, but the wildest of the
lot was when the police got hold of the right
Terry. As a fighting man, Terry is a most
memorable circumstance.


Summer
F ashions
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices
which make .Shopping
a Delight at the ....
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM.
Send for FASHION
PORTFOLIO j» J-
Spring and Summer,
Post Free Anywhere.
Bv
&J
r
m
'
H '
*S&S*
«*!/!
w •%
I
Si«
«#
4
%*
v
Hi
r;»
m
m
><*
<4
u>
*•»
*1
► «%
i * *
*•'♦»**
!*v
i *1
4 *1
IV
M
r,««
£
i »*
* IS
% r*
■ *
i
No. 2164— FANCY CAMBRIC COSTUME,
trimmed Swiss Embroidery, Navy,
Black, YVedgewood, Pink, Grey, 19/6.
No. 2267— ZEPHYR COSTUME, Plain and Fancy
Checks, trimmed Embroidery and Valen-
ciennes, tucked folds at foot, 29/6, 36/-
No. 2417—ZEPHYR COSTUME, Plain and Fancy
Checks, Trimmed Embroidery and pin
tucks, newest light and dark colors, 25/-
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
PALACE EMPORIUM
SYDNEY
acetylene:.
THE Headquarters of the Acetylene Business in New South Wales
will in future be situated at . . .
314 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
EXTENSIVE SHOWROOMS have now been completed, and the Public
are cordially invited to call and inspect all the latest improvements in
Acetylene Lighting.
WILLIAM TYREE^
Sole Manufarturer of
Tyree “ Perfection ** Generators;
Tyree “ECONOMIC” Generators; Tyree “PERFECTION” Acetylene
Table Lamps ; Tyree “ SOLIO ” Optical Lantern Generator ; Tyree Motor
Launch Generators ; Tyree Motor Car Generators ; Tyree Miners’ Lamps ;
Tyree Lamp-post Generators; Tyree Bicycle Lamps; Tyree Carriage
Lamps; Tyree Contractors’ Lamps. Patented throughout the world.
Used by all the Government Departments, Sydney Harbor Trust,
Commonwealth of Australia, New Zealand Government. Installations
in every Town and District in New South Wales.
THE LATEST NOVELTY :
E»e TYREE Patent AUTOMATIC SPRAY.
PRICE, from lOs. EACH.
No pump required. No syringe required. You simply put in the mixture,
or the paint, and the machine does the rest. YOU CAN PAINT YOUR
HOUSE AND FENCES, DISINFECT THE PREMISES, OR SPRAY
YOUR GARDEN AND ORCHARD WITHOUT WORK, AT ONE
HALF THE COST. Everyone should see this invention at the
SHOWROOMS:
314 Georg'e vStreet, Sydney.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM at Lowest Rates. Send for Printed Matter.
m
m
m
frPs
K
zr/
<1
KB
m
pm. yi;
r
&
Jb
5/
Wm>\‘ 1
JfiSg
:
r>2 - W
5£H
P
'■ 11
*
«!'
£•
l '- •
s 3
8K
r
sy
*V,
/
iISJS
M
; ffl*r | ftt :
’JSSJf' V • " •;. ..
m
■
m
h'.hsM
m
wm
i >./ * &v(
“ Quan, ” on copper ;
t first copper or( “ in S. Australia, credited
to Charles Bagot, lately deceased jn England (B. 13/9/’O6).
Am of opinion that the credit should be given to Dutton,
overseer on Kapunda station, the property of Captain
;^°n ( f „, er . 0f K Gharki i afot ' esaif ? ) b lli 11 ’ S' ollB t 0
neaich for lost sheep. He ascended a small bill to get a
more extensive view of the country, but failed to discover
tiny mutton roaming the landscape. He was turning to
descend, when ft bright green stone projecting from the
earth caught his eye. Struck by its remarkable appear-
mice, he broke off a small piece, and took it to Bagot’s
wllm 11 ',”? BagQt exmnined it As a result,
t.iej applied for the land. The section of 80 acres was
put up for auction, and, there being no other bidders for
the barren-looking spot, it was knocked down to Dutton
and Bagot at £1 per acre. They betted £4OOO the first
year, and £lO,OOO the second, and eventually sold out to
a dull compan3 r , after having made a fortune apiece.
If Maoriland Premier Ward’s Land Bill
becomes law, with the £50,000 limit unaltered, it
~ ’ ’
means that an enormous amount of land will come
on the market within the next ten years or so.
In fertile Hawkes Bay, where there is to be found
some of the finest soil in tlio world no less fh-.n
noco onn ®. u o, , Vi 1 ’ i S ,
worth wlll be throw n open for closer
settlement, and the Hawkes Bay monopolist, who
declared that McKenzie’s old time land legislation
would ruin him, but who isn’t ruined, is again
saying that he is ruined. The loudest howl
„ om „„ f rom t 73 Ormond who was nnoo half
corne& tr<)m ’• Ur monel who was once half
persuaded by a report sent round by a Napier
humorist that he had been made a peer under the
title of Baron Breakwater. Ward’s Bill will hit
him where the old man really lives.


IVldlie. Helena Rubinstein, the Eussian skin
and complexion specialist, can be consulted daily without
charge at the Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney (above Washington H. Soul and Co.). All ladies
by whom beauty and freshness of complexion are desired
will find her advicq in the highest degree valuable. The
Valaze Institute is fitted with the latest and most
scientific appliances for the removal of birth marks,
moles, disfiguring' growths, red noses, double chins,'
superfluous hairs, and other facial blemishes, which dis-
appear like magic. Valaze, Dr. Lykuski’s Famous Skin
Food, will beautify and clear the muddiest skin by drawing
out the impurities that clog the action of the delicate
pores. This shows at once that the impurities are being
brought out, not driven in, to appear later and cause end-
less trouble. The impurities dissappear after three days.
Valaze Eussian herbal Skin-food, 3s. 6d. ; a large jar,
containing three times the amount, 6s. Posted to any
part of Australasia, 6d. extra. Valaze Herbal Soap
surpasses any other for beautifying the complexion, 2s. a
cake ; 2d. postage. Valaze Herbal Face Powder contains
no lead, is hygienic and pure, 2s box ; 2d. postage. Dr.
Lykuski’s Special Blackhead and Open Pore Cure,
guaranteed to cure the most, obstinate cases, 2s. 6d. a
box; 3d. postage. Bus- 10 Hair Killer is guaranteed to
instantly remove superfluous hairs from face, neck, and
arms, without injury to the most delicate skin. Price,
ss. 6d. Valaze Massage Kollers, for home massage, will
remedy both overstoutness and thinness. Single roller,
Bs. 6d. ; small size, set in case, complete, 10s. 6d. : com-
plete set, in case, 255. These rollers will last a lifetime.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure. A certain remedy
prepared by Dr. Lykuski for these disfiguring complaints,
no matter how obstinate. Eecommended by eminent
medical authorities in Europe ; 2s. 6d. a 3d.
“ Guide to Beauty” posted free on receipt of 3d. to cove r
postage. All the above toilet preparations obtainable
from leading chemists, or direct from Mdlle. Bubinstein,
158 Pitt-street, Sydney, above Washington H. Soul and
Co., and 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library.
The best writers produce their new books at this period
of the year. “ Coniston,” by Winston Churchill, “The
Treasure of Heaven,” by Marie Corelli, Hocking’s new
book “ The Man Who Eose Again,” and a great number of
novels by American writers have already arrived. Lai ge
quantities of every book of any importance are always
added to the above up-to-date library, so that subscribers
get the books they request immediately upon application.
A special rate, £2 12s. 6d. per year, or £1 11s. 6d. per half-
year for eight volumes at a time, is quoted to country
members, while the city rates are, for one book and a
magazine at a time, 21s. per year and 12s. 6d. per half-
year, for two books and two magazines at a time, £2 2s.
per year and 255. per half-year. Exchanges are made as
often as required, and subscriptions may start at any
date. Proportionate prices for shorter periods. Write or
call for catalogues and further particulars at Dymock’s
Book Arcade and Circulating Library, 428 George-street,
Sydney.*
YOU MUST EAT.
So eat what you like, and enjoy it. The starvation
cure for dyspepsia is about as logical as cutting one’s head
off to cure headache. Your system requires food —must
have it. If you cannot eat and digest it without subse-
quent suffering, use “ Senior’s Digestive Dinner Tablets,”
and you will notice a steady return to natural conditions.
They will enable you to eat what you like, and you will
get the full benefit of the eating. They give tone to the
muscular lining of the stomach, supply elements needed
to proper digestion, and overcome fermentation, sour
stomach, and constipation They are a palatable lozenge,
as pleasant to take as a sweet. It may take a little time
to effect a permanent cure, but “Senior’s Digestive
Dinner Tablets ” will do it, and will afford you a world of
comfort while they are doing it. Is. and 2s. 6d. per box,
or Is. 2d. and 2s. 9d. post free, from Senior’s Pharmacy,
246 George-street, Sydney.*
*
G
o
❖
G
&
*
V
<s>
*
<s
&
<$
Ttfuift
4A .
r Jwxr< ...
ofi"Cmy
i/nr
HwKtjA;
tg Goutez et Comparez. ”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
AMSIHM
lisK
“eEAv^riETTE^
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 9, 1906.
My Dear Arini,—
A baby-bud party that was to have burst forth
this week at State Government House, and a like
frisk that ought to have bloomed on the Pah’f’l,
have been postponed because most of the swell
infants have got whooping cough. The malady
started some six weeks ago. It was then a solitary
visitation affecting only one house, and one lamb
from that house spoiled the bleat of the whole
Lambswool crowd, and caused them to
cough terribly in the green pastures of
their fathers. If all the children’s parties had
been declared “off’’ the whoop would have died
out early, but the Mamas had their dates fixed,
and weren’t to be whooped off them, and so the
disease spread. Now that Government House has
shown the way, all prospective baby-party-givers
have taken it. An epidemic of measles is also on
its way, and has already got a fair start. Now, if
only Captain Leslie Wilson would get both
maladies—not seriously, you know ; just one measle
and a few whoops; enough to make hi in more
interesting to long-haired Sydney than he is
already—Cranbrook would become, for that sec-
tion of Sydney, the place where the earth’s axis
sticks out.
The Government House Garden Party was a
rather hurried function because everyone was in
an atmospheric mood. There was a Chopinesque
rain-chop prelude that everyone vowed was to
usher in a Wagnerian crash bang of a rain-storm.
His dear old Ex. and Miss Rawson did their best
(which is always good) to individualise each hand-
shake and give it a separate palinality. Mrs.
Arthur MacArthur, in an iris-blue pinafore gown,
pinnied over white, was enough to knock one flat
with admiration. Mrs. G. H. Reid showed a very
smart back, small-waisted, all in white silk, with
slender gold belt buckles emphasising her slight
curves.
Parson Metcalf, who directs the soular system
of the Pah’f’l, looked quite like an Original
Sinner in his. Government House clothes. One
could well believe the storyettes about the golden
hairs fastened under the stamps of his letters
that go on board the Flagship. As for the other
men present—never saw such a collection of
doctors, all looking pretty miserable. Someone
spoke the word “ goff ” suddenly into the earsjof
Drs. Roland Pope and Taylor-Young, and the
phrase acted like the magic of “rats” on a
terrier.
A stranger of some distinction within our gates
—he is staying at the Australia—is Mr. Howard
Galton, a brother of the distinguished Francis
Galton, who was here at Government House what
time his uncle Duff propped up the tottering
destinies of this State by putting his brief auto-
graph on occasional public documents. The
visitor is a tea-planter from Ceylon. He looks as
if he grew very nice tea indeed. Wish he’d send
some of it here, for Sydney is swamped with tea
that tastes as if it had been found on the floor.
Mr. Palmer, of Sydney, who is an official assignee
m insolvency, and dispenses the 2d. in the £, has
received a letter from his friend Gordon, K.C., in
which is announced the marriage of that inter-
esting Sydney barrister to Miss Margaret Thomas,
late of the J. C. Williamson Opera Company.
The event took place in Wales on September 26.
it will be remembered that bride and bridegroom
journeyed from Sydney that they might be married
at Miss Thomas’s native place, in the Griffith coun-
try where the Eisteddfodd grows. As the news is
sent by a lawyer to an official assignee, there is
naturally a grievous lack of information about the
frills and fluff and feathers of the wedding. It is
just like a lawyer to leave out the most interesting
part of the narrative—especially when he is writing
to an official assignee.
I hat well-meaning, English half-penny paper,
the Daily Mirror, is stuffing its green goose of a
self with lordly stuffing about a peer’s son who
works in a motor garage—for love. In fact, on the
day the engagement of Lord Aberdare’s son to
Camille Clifford was announced, he and she became
the most advertised persons in Great Britain. In
the garage the young man is shown in workman’s
overalls grafting at a lathe, starting the engine,
and signing cheques. But under the workman’s
overalls are spats above the boots with the
lights on the patent leathers. The spats are
there to show that the young man is really one
of the salt of the eartn, just as a king who
disguises himself and takes to pick-and-shovel
work always shovels with his crown on to prevent
him sinking wholly into the common herd.
Concerning man’s dress : Another English
paper says it knows a man who spent some years
m a lonely hut in the backblocks of Australia
He always “dressed for dinner,” for the dinner
he had cooked for himself, so as to “buck himself
up with the regular reminder that he was a gentle-
man.” When Reggie put on his crow suit he
then ate his cooked crow. It was most likely
crow or rabbit or goat. And on the gin-case, or
stump, opposite him, no doubt sat in imagination
the vicar s, or the adjacent squire’s, charming
daughter, so that the crow-eater kept in the
current of English country “ fluff” about the race
mill, Cowes regatta, and the floral decorations for
the village.school s concert, at which the crow-
eater and his vis-a-vis are going to sing a duet.
Miss Alice Henry, who will be remembered by
Sydneysiders and Melbournians as a hard work-
ing journalist, and. a battler on the platform vc
social and industrial questions, reports herself
Irom Buffalo, N.Y. : “One side of my brain,”
she writes, “ has been stuffing itself with
knowledge about woman’s work, and chil-
dren’s courts, and neglected infants, and the
other half has been telling the' Americans,
who are cheerfully receptive, something of
how we do things in Australia. I have
been engaged as principal speaker for a municipal
reform campaign in Chicago, city of the odorous
meat-can, but likewise of Jane Addanes (Saint
Jane) and Hall House, and am to talk Woman’s
Suffrage for all I’m worth.”
A theatre party of six, three ladies and three
gentlemen, all Chinese, were in the last row of
the stalls, the other night, at the performance of
“ The Squaw Man,” and the whole six got bogged
in tears over the parting of little Hal from his
young Squaw mother. Chinese are very fond of
children, and when a piece with a youngster in
it is staged you’ll always see a few preserved-
ginger and vegetable vendors beaming upon it.
One of the biggest draws for the Chinese was
“Leah Kleschna.” They didn’t take much in-
terest in the career of the thief-girl or her subse-
quent conversion, but they came in swarms to
gloat upon the cabbage-garden scene that was
such a big feature of the last act. It was a re-
markable piece of scenic artistry, thousands of
rows of cabbages, the long lines vanishing into
perspective as they quitted the stage and
climbed up the back-cloth; and it used
to rouse the yellow theatre-parties and set
them talking excitedly. Mr. Gordon had studied
a Chinese cabbage landscape at Waterloo for his
achievement, and probably Mr. Wun Wing of
the cabbage patch, and all his friends and
acquaintances, came to criticise, and decide that
the artist had put too much heart into the
cabbages.
A rat eating a pear, carved in jade, is a neck
ornament (suspended on a slender gold and jade
chain) that a returned traveller, Mrs. Willie
Baumann, has brought back from Japan. In
the language of journalese isn’t it “a quaint
conceit ”? Other Jap works of art in the returned
traveller’s trick bag—or rather in her back
hair —are gold and jade combs. The gold is
carved into dragons that are savagely assaulting
their own tails. In Tokio the Baumanns went to
lunch, or afternoon tea, or some such, with a Jap
lady of quality, and the first item the Australienne
selected from the tray was an elegant-looking
thing in cakes. She bit deeply, then regretted
having ever left Australia. In the centre of the
attractive-looking cake was a dead, uncooked fish.
He had been dead some time ; and he was almost
audible.
I got that last word from the following: A
bunch of the Automobile Club, including Mr.
Sain Hordern, senior, was touring awhile ago
in the untrodden ways of this State, and descended
one Sunday evening upon a township of some
fifteen shanties. It was raining hogs, dogs and
demons, and the party fell upon an attenuated
pub., and tried to enter into diplomatic relations
through the keyhole. The only moderately-dry
spot on the verandah was occupied by a cow, and
as she refused to move, one of the club crawled
under her, pending the completion of the protocol
at the keyhole, and was fairly comfortable. A
pair of suspicious, elderly female eves, belonging
to a lady of drab and colorless habits, inspected
the party through a jagged blind, and ignoring the
evidence of wealth embodied in £2OOO worth of
motor-car, the lady spoke: “Git out, all of yez.
I know yen, the Flying Beecham troupe, and ye’ll
take me down like the last play-actors. Th’ only
play-actor I let into me hotel is Lemmone, the
fluterer.”
A family of six white persons named Black will
give Sydney proof of its musical many-sidedness
in a month or so. A section of the invading army
(which comes here from M.L.) was introduced to
a section of the press gang last week in Paling’s
concert room. Miss Nellie Black, one of the per-
formers, is a fine-looking brunette, who sings
mezzo-contralto, and saws with good effect on the
fiddle. Another of the girls is a charming
fluterer.
I notice in the cablegrams that a British
princess—Patricia of Connaught—is to marry the
Grand Duke Michael, brother to the Czar. I
don’t know Mike at all—he may be a very agree-
able young man—but if the happy pair are to live
in Russia these times I would just as soon marry
dynamite; It is to be hoped that arrangements
have been made with leading bomb-throwers that
the Grand Duke and his frau will not be blown
up during the honeymoon.
Someone in the British Australasian has been
chatting with Miss Bess Norriss, the miniature
painter, about her work, and the future of Art in
Australia. She has done miniatures of Florence
Schmidt—a harmony in blue and fawn ; one of
Miss Frances Foy, of Sydney ; one of Mr. Nevin
Tait, and one of Percy Grainger, of the Hair and
Eyes. Most of the well-known Australians have
been put on to ivory by her. And she confesses
that she “desired and intended to make a
miniature as powerful and as real and as full of
character as a strong six-foot canvas. Why
shouldn’t there be a miniature with the
same qualities as a Velasquez, or a Rem-
brandt, or a Whistler?” Miss Norriss
is a brave Bess, and if she can ever achieve
such a masterpiece all Australian women will
throw up their toques in congratulation, and the
short storyists will proceed to write three-column
tales which will have all the power and fullness of
(say) “ Vanity Fair.”
Miss Norriss is described to me by one of her'
former studio neighbors as a little dark thing
with glittering black eyes—full of talk, vitality
and work.
The large, luxurious motor-car has supplanted
the landau and pair as the equipage of arrogance.
It is quite in the eternal unfitness of things for a
humble toiler to be killed by a plutocrat’s motor,
which puffs and snorts along the highway as
though asserting a divine right to a clear course.
The motor is essentially merciless in character. It
is emblematical of capital commanding reverence
from labor.. To the poor devil who offers a mute
protest against its action it cries “ Toot ! toot !”
and he toots for self-preservation.
I receive this letter of severe reproach from
Melbourne: —
A recent par. in the “ Woman’s Letter ” stated that
pianist Borsehke, the intensely ladvlike voung person
had been discovered travelling in'the steerage of a
'Murka-bound steamer, and was transferred to the saloon
by subscription in which even the Chinese cook was asked
to join. This incredible yarn casts unkind reflections on
the amiable little Pole, as well as on the Taits who im-
ported him. Borsehke, being a youth of frugal mind,
stipulated for a second-class passage to and
from Australia, and what he saved in travelling
exes, was added to his salary. He came out
under engagement for the Maggie Stirling tour,
was re-engaged for the Andrew Black concerts, and
would have been further booked by the Taits but for his
deciding to accept an offer from America. So he went
away with cash in hand and the best of wishes from his
managers, who hope to get him again anon. And, as for
the rumor that he let himself be bought out of the
second-class saloon, his friends indignantly protest
against the aspersion on his musical pride. Borschke
was not so ignorant of the English language that he
would unknowingly permit charitable aid (which he didn’t
need) to be thrust upon him.
All the same, the statement rested on letters
written from Auckland by two influential Sydney
citizens and a third gentleman who doesn’t belong
to Sydney, and they were on board the vessel,
which the indignant friends were not. Possibly
Mr. Borschke regarded the act (assuming it
happened, which it certainly seems to have clone)
as simply a testimonial or a benefit, and no more
a charity than the bouquet which is handed up
after the performance. Anyhow, the influential
citizens apparently regarded their act (assuming
there was an act) as a tribute to genius,
and had no thought that they would be looked
upon as persons who did a lofty act of benevolence.
They simply wanted Borschke’s society at their
own end of the ship, and they got it. The idea
of levying on the Chow cook perhaps struck
them as a humorous process of spoiling the
Egyptian. It is always legitimate to “get at ” a
Chow cook.
Sydney is to have a Glaciarium like Melbourne
and Adelaide. The old Cyclorama site has been
taken by the syndicate which runs the Mel-
bourne ice-rink, and the syndicaters intend to
open an up-to-date skating rink with real ice. If
they’re going to keep their ice going during the
Sydney summer they’ll need good freezing ma-
chinery.
Race time brought back a worry which con-
fronted more than one daily paper at a previous
big meeting. The editor was asked by a lady
connected with the chiffon trade why no descrip-
tion of her gorgeous raiment appeared in his
columns. She supported the great daily with a
solid and expensive advertisement, while Potts
Point and Toorak, which got free notices about
their clothes and decorations, didn’t prop up the
paper more than a penny a day. Further, as far
as dressing went, she took lots of trouble to see
that none of her customers outshone her, but
while her magnificent toilettes were passed by in a
silence compared to which Pharaoh’s sepulchre
was garrulous, some of her customers, who were
much less wonderfully arrayed, got quite eloquent
descriptions. Next race day the lady’s dress had
an appreciative notice. The same publicity was
afforded to many other ladies connected with big
advertising customers of the paper. Whereupon
certain expensive suburbs sent the editor a
glacial sort of notice that if their clothes were
to be mentioned in such company they» would
prefer not to have their clothes mentioned'
at all. They requested the editor to consider
that, from a social point of view, they attended
without any clothes.. Now the editor faces three
problems : —(1) If he doesn’t mention the clothes
of the clothes-building ladies they may withdraw
their advts. (2) If he mentions them only, the
society circulation wdl fall off, and the clothes-
building ladies will be just as much offended as if
they weren’t noticed ; it isn’t merely being noticed
that counts, but being noticed in Potts Point and
Toorak company. (3) If he notices the clothes of
the society ladies when they tell him not to, the
law may call it assault and battery ?
Mrs. Bland Holt, in a long white lace coat over
pale blue, with a white and blue befeathered hat,
took the eye at Saturday’s final meet of the
A.J.C. races. Mrs. Fisken (of Melbourne) wear-
ing a gold straw hat with a geyser of blue
feathers, was another bright circumstance.
Miss Ola Humphrey, with her wind-blown cloud
of coppery hair shading her eyes, watched the
N.S.W. Association Regatta (on Saturday) from
Mr. Ramaciotti’s motor-launch Vera. She quoted
something appropriate about “the measured pulse
of racing oars,” and assured her hearers that the
contest excited her as wildly as that between
Yale and Harvard used to do. It was a
superb afternoon, and the wildly cheering
crowds on the river banks, and the swarm-
ing waters cloven by the rhythmic oars, and the
Parramatta itself, did us credit. The brilliant
American girl’s heart went out to the Light Blues,
and she whooped melodiously when the athletic
young oarlets won the Maiden Fours.
I lam glad to hear from Cyril Monk that, at the
time he left London, Maud Dalrymple had re-
covered her health, and was looking prosperously
at a goodly list of engagements ahead,
j Scenic artist Gordon and Mrs. Grundy (ward-
robe mistress at Her Majesty’s) were the arbiters
of the merits of the fancy dresses at St. Vincent’s
ball. They gave the prize for the best fancy
dress to Mrs. Bertie Kelly, who, with a mega-
phone on her head, and blue and cloth-of-silver
robes, was disguised as Isabel of Boulogne, the
lady who married Edward 11. of England—and
afterwards “removed” him. Likewise, she did
a fierce frisk with a gentleman of the Smart Set
named Mortimer, who helped her to “remove”
the old man. At least, this is the only
Isabel of Boulogne I know of. Three feet
of funnel on one’s head doesn’t seem a head-dress
from under which to look archly at a lover. But
the women of mediaeval days were more resource-
ful than those of to-day. Ever so many more of
them murdered their husbands, and didn’t seem
thereby to fall into any special disrepute—in
fact, there came a time in Italy when any
lady who wanted her husband removed just
went to the professional remover, and paid
the fee, and the matter was attended to,
just as if the old man were furniture. A
globular young party of Eskimo build appeared in
the Queen's set as Henrietta Maria. She would
have done for Queen Victoria in the days of the
latter’s youth. Why is Queen Victoria neglected
in fancy ball dressing? My fancy as probable
prize-takers were Mrs. O’Gorman Hughes
(a beautiful brunette) as Elizabeth of York,
in robes of flame color and gold and a
crown, and Miss Edith Manning, as Caroline of
Anspach. Last was most accurately carried out
from a picture by a contemporary painter—sky
blue satin, small waist, and wide crinoline effect
of skirt with Georgian jewellery, little pearl cap
on the powdered hair, and three pale-blue plumes
waving with a regular God-and-my-right effect
above the dark-eyed, piquant little face.
Mrs. (General) Gordon, the Mayoress, Mrs.
J. C. Williamson, and the beauty of the vice-
regal set, Mrs. Harrison Smith, were on the
dais, and lent the ball their moral support.
As for the men present, Captain (of thePyramus)
Valentine de Mornay Cowpertook the skyscraper
in the character of Valentine de Mornay Cowper.
He looks anything between Mephistopheles and
Ponce de Leon, with a touch of Hernando de Soto
discovering the Mississipi, and a dash of Columbus
landing in America, and he made the girls pop-
eyed with admiration (also with despair—for the
wretch is married, and his wife is on her way
here).
Mr. A. P. Cooper, sub-editor of the S.M.
Herald, is to be married next week to Miss
Ethel Miller. The bride-elect has done consider-
able foreign travel, and studied music, vocal and
instrumental, during a two years’ sojourn in Rome
and Milan. In London she also did some study
under Santley. When that beautiful personage
the Due d’Abruzzi and his glittering staff were in
Australia recently, they liked to talk about dear
old Italy in their own language to Miss Miller.
“ O’Fipp,” who is a pleasant and friendly cor-
respondent, writes to me
Your mention of Mine. Camille Flammarion’s habit of
treasuring the trimmings of her astronomer husband’s
looks for pillow-stuffing reminds me of a curiosity in the
possession of Camille himself. It is a copy of his “ Ciel et
Terre,” bound in the skin of “a beautiful countess.”
Flammarion (so the story goes) frequently expressed
admiration for the skin before the countess was done
with it. Consequently she left directions in her will that
her outer covering was to be removed and used in binding
sumptuously a copy of Flammarion’s book, which was to
be presented to the author with her ghost’s compliments.
Seemingly, the Flammarion household is a great place for
creepy or bristly relics.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
Lord and Lady Chelmsford and Miss Du Cane have been
enjoying a few days at Tamroskum, Logan River, the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Collins. Safe in the
seclusion of the fine homestead; vice-royalty let itself go,
and entered into drafting, branding, mountaineering and
picnicking with such zest that His Frailness returned to
town with quite a healthy tan.
The weather smiled upon the Flying Squadron, and
there was a rare sailing breeze in the Hamilton reach for
its opening on Saturday. Lots of new craft were upon
the river. Both the Dinghy Club and the Queensland
Yacht Club the previous week had awful luck and were
nearly washed away. Races were abandoned, and the
white yachting frocks looked like clammy blotting paper.
Boating dresses need the sun.
The performance of the Grammar School girl students
on Thursday night was very creditable, and the young-
sters did their level best to make four scenes of “ Henry
VIII.” go in a way that would do credit to that energetic
monarch, now deceased.
Yours Affectionately,
A EENEHI.


SUPERFLUOUS HAIRS.
AN ABSOLUTE CURE FOUND AT LAST.
I ADY, self-cured of this distressing- affliction, will
*-* forward remedy on receipt of 4/6, postage 6d.
extra. Other States, 6/8. Send Id. Stamp for booklet
on treatment and testimonials from grateful clients
cured. Only genuine postal address—“ Tonic,”
Central Chambers, 77 Swanston St., Melbourne.
dfg
sdf
gsdf
DUNLOP
RUBBER
BELTING
la recommended to Mine managers. Its
Efficiency and Durability under wet conditions
renders its use more economical than leather
belting. Made endless (without stretch), any
. length, up to 60 inches wide.
'l
S SAMPLE AND PRICE ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP PNEUMATIC TYRE CO. of AUST. LTD..
108 Flinders St.. Melbourne : 150 Clnrenec St..
Sydney: 117 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaide
St.. Brisbane; 617 Hay St., Perth: 128 Lichfield Si..
Christchurch. N.Z.
mum*
lIP
i
••inimre*'
«B
m
\\lmiwlW
1
1
feftF
Lasts for Years
without Perishing
or Bursting.
Recommended for
Stable
Use
TRY A LENGTH
Ask your Storekeeper for Dunlop Brand
THE DUNLOP TYRE CO. OF AUST. LTB,
**• Fltader* St, Melbourne; ijo Clarence St. Sydney;
•17 Grenfell 81., Adelaide: >6B-270 Adelaide St, Brisbane ;
*•7 Hay 81, Perth! 12S Lichfield St, Cbriatchanfb. Hi
RlSistefiSr
AND
*—^flOSES^sH^
Supporters.
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
PD
OiuJ5lMPk
rammi
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 9, 1906.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
An air of solemnity prevailed at the recent
G.-G. musical party. Pew-lilce forms were
arranged in the reception room, with an aisle-like
passage down the middle, as if someone would
presently come that way with a plate. The
room, divested of its bric-a-brac and lounge fit-
tings, served as an impromptu concert hall.
Punctually to the minute, Lady Northcote and
her house party glode into their seats, while the
Aides, serving as scouts, tip-toed about the hall
passing the word of silence to late-comers, and
appointing the tardy ones to back pews with
much dumb pantomime. Fashionable bucks
and old sporting rakes of importance found
themselves wedged among members of the chiffon
sex, who, fearing to frou-frou if they breathed too
freely, sat in tense, bated silence and with almost
devotional mien. At a break in the proceedings,
the hostess, radiant with smiles, passed down the
aisle scattering cheer to the congregation.
The treat of that concert which Dame North-
cote turned on the Smart Set was the instrumental
novelty of four trombonists blowing melody
through the brass. In a Beethoven Equale, the
quartet was a new and memorable joy. Later,
the four dealt with Mendelssohn’s “Huntsman’s
Farewell” almost as effectively. Even the old
rakes of the party and the sordid rich aroused
themselves to applause that sounded earnest.
Miss Jessie Masson, as one of the Hummel septet,
showed the dexterity of an expert. Madame
Janson and Miss Hesketh Jones raised their top
Cin song to some effect. But the prize solo
number was Herr Hairy Hattenbach in a gorgeous
“llhapsodie Hongroise.” In the gathering the
youngest and most decorative charmer was Miss
Claire Whiting, whose frocking was keyed up to
the aesthetic occasion, the pale soft gold and terra-
cotta tones of her garb striking the eye softly.
Also Mrs. Percy Webster and Mrs. Vallange
were contained in a pair of fetching frocks.
Lady Northcote’s cinnamon velvet trailed without
more noise than a bee makes when breathing
on a violet. It was a silent concert dress.
Toorak must have felt ashamed of its aggressive
fuss and hiss of garments, and the sibilant chatter
of its silken skirts. There’s a subtle charm in
the noiseless two-step of a graceful woman—far
more suggestive than the flurry of silk petticoats
that sounds like snakes in long grass.
On Tuesday a great number of the guests at
Government House broke their progress up the
drive to make a detour into the porch, where the
Book of Fate is kept—there to scrawl their mark,
and save a special visit for the signing. It’s an
unceremonious and economical politeness—if a
politeness at all.
The two rival Conservatoriums were brought
into touch by Dame Northcote, who booked
Madame Janson, of the ’Varsity, and Miss
Hesketh Jones, of the Albert-street School, for her
party. Mrs. Peterson and Madame Wiedermann
exchanged compliments thereat.
Once again Stonington puts down its blinds.
The fifth bereavement has happened since the
Talbots came. This time his Ex. lost a sister—
Gertrude, Countess of Pembroke. As the grey
dame is already in bereavement garb for one of
her family, she had to face no more sudden
shedding of glad garments.
Ihe Mayoral hop was a subdued affair, with no
crust worth the name, and no real dazzlers to add
lustre to the scene. The aldermen had all the
glory of creamy calves and ruffles to themselves.
The procession of these staid old souls (every
councillor is as free from giddiness as the Town
Hall clock) was a lugubriously funny event. The
galleryites grinned to the ears at the spectacle.
Pall-bearers would have looked cheerful compared
to them. As a sunbeam through the aldermanic
gloom beamed the G.-G. dame in a familiar eiel-
blue frock with a playful serpentine train. There
was a glistening of fine emeralds from ears and
neck. The Mayoress (Mrs. Weedon) sported a
very fine rig in matronly black and white. A tier
of fine lace plots formed a showy design. She
fitted well into the dais picture.
The grand parade of debutantes was a feature
of the evening. The girleens proCeshed in pairs
to the dais. They were gripped by the hostly
hand and then apportioned Lancer mates. There
were no ecstatic smiles among the bevy. They
seemed to “ wander in a trance of sober thought.”
What possesses an unsuspecting Miss to get her
first legitimate glimpse into the grown-up world
of rakes, cynics and delightful young fools at a
mayoral hop ? And what foolish parents permit
the mistake? Eligible youths are not asked to
such functions, as a rule, and do not transpire
when they are invited, and the girl who has just
emerged gets an impression that the social world
is a very dreary old thing. She is like the chicken
that is hatched on a wet day. On Wednesday I
searched among the odd dozen of white-robed
girlies for the glowing eye, the glad cheek-bloom,
the animation, the buoyant poise of the head ;
one might have thought the posied lot were
about to face tooth-removal without gas.
The best known and freshest widower in the
Tooraketty quarter has resumed his friendship
with a travelled spinster, and books are being
made on the next step. It’s always an interesting
and eloquent sign when a bon camaraderie is re-
sumed by a male wearing the willow, and an old
girl chum.. Friendship gains such a piquancy by
the mourning break.
There’s been a crowd of naval men at the vice-
regal house these days, and a few private hosts
had the glitter of their company. Some of them
were at Dr. Bird’s Friday hop, given in honor of
a daughter who has reached the age that in man
is that of indiscretion. The event was held at the
Masonic. Hall, and every time a budding Nelson
and a skittish polka-mate essayed an ascent of the
stairs (as is usual for a recovery spell or sit-out),
some dark-browed members of the craft loomed
U P and drove the couple from the lodge pre-
cincts. There’s no fun in footing it with a battle-
ship hero if an interval for chin-chin can’t be
snatched from public view. The suburban
girleen daringly boasts that she loves this or that
ball-room because “ithas such lovely sitting-out
places.” Flaunting giddiness is quite excusable
in the chick when she really doesn’t mean it, and
the she-boaster very seldom means it. She’d
probably fill the air with cries for help if Algernon
did bring giddiness to the point of proffering a
kiss.
Rinks, icv or otherwise, have evidently not
acquired any benign democratic influence since
the early days when the expression, “cads on
castors,” came into vogue. The marine serenity
of Mentone, the most distant of Melbourne’s
suburbs by the sea, is terribly disturbed by a
recent outbreak of exclusiveness at the resusci-
tated rink. Mentonians in general had been
roller-skating together on fairly amicable terms,
until the electro-plated minority, having profited
by the tuition of the common herd, per-
suaded the rink lessee to set apart Monday
nights for social distinction purposes. “Toffs
only ” were admitted by special ticket on Mon-
days, and as they passed into the rendezvous of
gentility they cast glances of haughty reserve at
their invalidated fellow-citizens, some of whom
were season ticket-holders. Then the non-
Monday crowd decided to rink no more at the
place where they were not always permissible
persons, and they transferred their vulgar
patronage to a rival rink at Cheltenham, 1J miles
away. In the opportunities it offers for walking
home on a fine, dark night, the rink that is far
away has attractions for both sexes.
From a Hobart correspondent :
Women writers to the Hobart papers would win in a
big Cringe Competition. When Governor Strickland and
his lady arrived some time ago the efforts of the female
nibs to out-prostrate each other and become the Most
Horizontal YVoman were simply fearful. They employed
many affectionate terms when referring to Lady Strick-
land, till finally she was created “ the Lady Edeline.”
Soon this became the rage, “the Lady Edeline” was
splashed over everything. Then some interfering person
of authority wrote to the papers pointing out that “the”
before “ lady,” instead of adding dignity to the title, only
tended to cheapen it. It put the person described on a
level with the youngest spinster daughter of a small peer.
The Most Horizontal Women dropped the objectionable
form with a heart-broken cry of apology, and began to
write instead, “Their Excellencies Sir Gerald and Lady
Edeline Strickland.” Very shortly we will see an account
of some function given in the presence of “Their Pre-
miers Captain and Captainess Evans.” There is no limit
to the possibilities of the Most Horizontal Woman.
The Froggy portion of the community has at
last a Consul bursting with energy, and flourish-
ing a pair of moustachios at once quaintly fierce
and flirtatious. Mr. Eugene Lucciardi claims to
be like all Corsicans im petit-cousin de Bonaparte.
The Consul is gay, and has the social gift de-
veloped. He is almost middle-aged, and has a
pretty wife, very young in the ways of the world
—and, therefore, very piqunnte. French plays are
in rehearsal, the Alliance Francaisehas amove on,
and all the members of the French colony have
bucked up since the arrival of the restless Consul.
Word floats along that Miss May Hillas, so
long footlighting with the Comic Opera Co., has
been offered an engagement by Mr. Seymour
Hicks.
Mrs. Torn Smith (who is more matronly than
she sounds —Tom being such a young and frisky
label) adds to the dissipation of Carnival week by
a hop at her Toorak home. One chick remains
unmated of the attractive Smith brood.
One of the sweetest singers encouraging the tea
and music idea is Miss Topsy Conn, a soprano
with a throb in her top C and a soulful suggestion
about her amorous songlets. At the Winter
Gardens, last Thursday, a stylish clan hearkened
to her song and clattered the spoons in enthusiasm
at its conclusion.
Miss Olive Morrell, the new Williamson star, is
a tall, graceful nymph with a pair of fine eyes and
the aesthetic hang of clothes that becomes a lan-
guisher of the Maesmore Morris type. She struts
in “The Prince of Pilsen.” The blase playgoer
is getting his opera-glasses renovated and polished
for the initial appearance of the new importation.
Felicitations have been travelling to Miss Edith
Landale, who prepares to give her support to the
institution of matrimony. Cousin Cyril—one of
the Deniliquin Landales —is the partner to be.
Thus ends many varied seasons of highly interest-
ing and saucy capers. In vim, chic, sangfroid,
and fearless repartee, Miss Edith has shone with
almost sensational success, her only real rival
being her sister Jessie, who is also flourishing
the diamond hoop that stands for an interest in
house-furnishings.
President and Dame Wrixon have circulated
pasteboards as a sign of the conclusion of the
State session—the drop of the Bent Government
curtain. It comes off on Monday, October 29.
The bidden are encouraged to come by an intima-
tion that the mourning Exes, will put in an
appearance.
The young fry of the Tooraketty quarter ran a
garden fete pretty well on their own the other
Saturday, and the sun furthered the effort by
flooding the land that day with golden radiance.
Mrs. Simson’s grounds were lent for the occasion.
The profits ran into three figures, owing to the
juvenile Toorak talent for pushing trade.
Mrs. Herbert Sargood and Mrs. Sachse have
both been spending thought and money on big
afternoon parties. Three hundred were gathered
at each, but not, by any means, the same three
hundred. Mrs. E. G. Sachse has a political circle
of chums, and in this State the political are just
common or garden blooms in the fashionable eye.
The Watteau toque, lodged on the left ear of
the smart She, is a spring attraction. There’s
something dashing, game, and lively about the
charmer whose topmast takes the Watteau tilt.
There is also something young, and that is always
good. No elderly frump or greying spinster dare
venture forth in the giddy Watteau top-piece.
Any gay millinery of the kind only calls attention
to the sad tracks of Time. A non-pretentious
top-piece is the only hope of the advanced Miss.
Mrs. Clement Vallange is so much an aide-de-
camp of the State Ex. that she has gone into
violet tones and other sombre garb out of respect
for the present Stonington black-edges.
The motor becomes a foe to the picture lands
beyond the Yarra suburbs. The other golden
noon, when for once the sky showed a turquoise
breast without a single cloud drape, and the face
of the green earth was aglow, the petrol cars were
swarming to break up every rambler’s dream.
They snorted into sight with clamorous noise,
churned up the earth, scattered it in the golden
atmosphere, sent the browsing cattle careering to
the river banks, and left noise and evil odors,
confusion and a whirlwind of grey dust in their
wake. There should be a by-law protecting
against the intrusion of these smelly, snorting
cars some spots in the golden land which the
gentle rambler may haunt in peace.
The O’Hara clan and a few other smart wor-
shippers of Grace Palotta rushed to greet the
Ward-Willoughby star last week. She only re-
volved for a day and a quarter, and then shipped
for Maoriland. The buoyant Grace looked a
shade travel-creased, but her spirits were as breezy
and her eyes as beautiful as ever.
Pasteboards have been issued for an afternoon
reception, at the Princess Theatre, this Thursday,
when Madame Blanche Arral will smile on a
selected assemblage. The Parisian artiste is back
here with her birds, her cats, and her spouse.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Knvvard VII. is busy distributing busts of Nelson about
Adelaide, on behalf of the British and Foreign Sailors’
Society. At least Edward is supposed to be presenting
then), but, as far as I can see, all he had to do with the
matter was to graciously permit his name to be mentioned,
an arduous proceeding, that must have made him very
tired. Mayor Bruce received one bust, made from the
oak and copper of the old Victory, and despatched a
hurried jingogram to thank Edward for all the trouble he
had taken about it. No doubt Mr. Rex will be duly
grattered and flattified per medium of his sec.
The crowds tumbled and fought for admission to the.
Doubleday girleen’s concert on the 29th, and there was
scarcely a vacant seat in the Town flail. Adelaide rarely
raises such an attendance, even when it is farewelling
some local genius. The show was such a pronounced and
clamorous success that the management arose in haste
and proclaimed a second concert at popular prices for
October 4th. This City of Holy Calm is rather
proud of its yearly export of musicians, but the
small Leila can already out-distance every one of
them by furlongs—at the piano at least, and shows
every promise of soon fiddling them out of coun-
tenance also. Some 40 or 50 consignments of garden pro-
duce were handed up to the wonder-child at her first
concert, not to mention various offerings of chocolates
and jewellery ; also some 20 or 30 girls arose and
showered Leila with flowers. The kiddy raked in
her trophies with child-like enjoyment. Perhaps
the most marvellous feature about Leila Doubleday
is the fact that she goes away minus the swelled head of
the usual youthful genius. She is a real child, and an
unspoiled one, and she has a charming little presence of
her own. Leila’s audience was one of much frill, and
included almost every person with a pot-handle to his or
her name that this city can show.
Maurice Chenoweth, the Adelaide tenor, leaves the
sainted city under engagement to the Brescians. He is a
considerably wild-haired individual, with a fine voice, and
an equally fine appreciation of himself—a state of affairs
that has probably come about through the girly admira-
tion oast at his feet during the past few years. There are
girls who would fain be trodden on by a beautiful tenor
with a weeping willow of hair upon his heavenly head.
The Melbourne Art Gallery has purchased, under the
Felton bequest, “ Mother of Pearl,” a picture by S. Aus-
tralian -artist Norman McGeorge. Bernard Hall, director
of the Melbourne Gallery, recommended the purchase of
three works by S. Australian daubers—Hans Heysen, Will
Ashton and McGeorge. Only one was chosen. I don’t
know in what part of the Scotch heather the McGeorge
clan originally waved its kilt. Looking over a directory
recently I found many Macs, whose existence I
never before suspected. Mcßratney, McCrink, McCrow,
McDicken, McFlynn, Mclsaac, McPaul, McPeak, and
McSwan were among them.
Hugo Gorlitz, Amy Sherwin’s husband-manager, is at
pi esent scuttling round Tortoise Town, arranging for the
Tasmanian Nightingale’s season here. Said season will
be a series of lectures for the guidance of young warblers
who rush prematurely to England to push Melba off her
perch. Gorlitz managed Paderewski for nine years, and it
is sold that he left the eminent and long-haired one chiefly
because ’Rewski married his present wife. What the
lady had done to Gorlitz isn’t known. Gorlitz is
said to shake hands regularly with Mr. and Mrs.
Edward VII. He managed for Kubelik for a while'
but says the violinist wants a lot of booming to make
him pay, and he has fallen into disfavor now by his
marriage. Mr. Gorlitz was a pal of Phil May’s, and he
reckons May’s place and laurel wreath, in London, are
still vacant. Many persons have knocked at the front
door of Fame and applied for May’s job in her temple,
but, so far, the lady has sent them all away, and some,
times she has threatened to set the dog on them.
The Voice breathed on top of Paradise under
fashionable circumstances in Adelaide last week. At
Chalmers Church Major Beach was knotted to a
daughter of Dr.. Napier. Benedict is a nephew of
the Chief Judicial Way, and is said to have
shovelled together considerable wealth in the share-
broking industry. Bride, who is a fascinating and
charming personage, is a daughter of that Dr. Leith
Napier, imported to attend the hospital when all the
Adelaide doctors were fighting over who shouldn’t go
there. Chalmers Church contained several acres of white
floral decorations, arranged in the conventional sequence
of arches. Wedding decorations couldn’t be original if they
tried. Bride’s frock was of an ultra special cream
brocade, and her three maidens (Misses Kay, Aird and
Beach) were garbed in dainty muslins, flowered with
yellow, and a touch of the same shade in their fetching
headgear. Guests were of the smart and frilly order and
sported some lofty frocking among them.
Yours Affectionately,
T RYPHENA.
Of all the preparations for improving the com-
plexion that have been introduced to Australia, nothing-
has approached that ideal Skin Food, Patti’s Beautv
Cream, for purity, daintiness, and efficacy in harmlessly
and rapidly clearing the skin of Wrinkles, Pimples
.Freckles, Blackheads, Sunburn, Roughness, and all Skin
Blemishes, leaving the complexion smooth, clear, fresh
healthy, youthful and transparent after a few applica-
tions ; in fact, chemists speak of it as the standard of
excellence in to.let preparations. We do not advertise
hysterically about half-a-dozen preparations. We simplv
state a few indisputable facts about one, and its users
prove these facts and spread glowing reports of its virtues,
so that to-day it has a greater sale than any other toilet
preparation. Moreover, it is not necessary to keep on
using- Patti s Beauty Cream for months. We positively
guarantee to give you a clear, healthy, velvety com-
plexion if you use one pot of Patti’s Beauty Cream faith-
fully according to directions. Its curative and anti-
septic properties have brought it into great favor, also
with gentlemen after shaving ; and Burns, Cuts, Scalds
Bruises, etc., are healed almost instantaneously bv apply-
ing a small quantity of Patti’s Beauty Cream.' Price
3s. 6d. and 6s. per pot, of all Chemist and Stores through-
out Australia and New Zealand. s
Under guidance of Dr. W. Aitken, Dolores paid
a visitation to the Sisterhood of Yaucluse Convent,
Richmond, and beamed for the cloistered, and the
Smiling Voice raised itself in song. Dolores re-
fused to select hymns for the holy audience. She
gave of her best, and one of her best was “ Cornin’
thro’ the Rye,” which she sang as archly for the
Sisterhood as she would for any unleavened or
pagan company. It was a gala day at the Convent.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, j.O/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
1
<3-0 I*o HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frgd. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss
dfg
Elastic
Truss —
Single, 15/-
Dcuble, 20/-
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
2SI GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is gratifying to note that in Westralia
the Labor party is against the foolish Secesh move-
ment —at least it is called a movement.
“ Quan ” : lie Gibb and Bill Lyne, why
doesn’t the N.S. W. States Rights crowd object to
a derelict Victorian politician contesting a N.S.
Wales electorate ?
The costly legal opinions obtained by T.
Bent are to the effect that Victoria’s claims to the
Riverina aren’t worth anything, so presumably
the Age’s giddy dream of territorial expansion
goes overboard.
A dishonest tailor in London, who lately
gave a customer a fraudulent cloth as the best
tweed, was sentenced to two months’ jug
without the option of a fine, and was removed
from the court in a fit. The suggestion to treat
swindlers with much less severity than that in
Australia sends the Foreign-traders into screams
of fury, and makes them rise with foam on their
whiskers to say that such legislation is “ unprece-
dented.”
One of the things which went overboard in
the Senate during the latter days of the session
was the proposed amendment of the Australian
Constitution to permit of the nationalisation of
monopolies. This gives the bloated Tobacco Trust
another lease of life, but it will not be a long one.
The nationalisation of the tobacco industry is
coming for certain, and probably that of the beer
and spirit industry also.
Sydney Telegraph has already summed
up the chances of the next Australian elections
as regards the Ma State. Absolute annihilation
of everything anti -Telegraph is apparently
assured, and the holding of the election will be a
farce, as the Telegraph has already elected every-
body. But it is only a few weeks since the Tele-
graph elected Fitzpatrick at the top of its voice
for Cootamundra. And where is Fitzpatrick ?
By way of rude reminder to those fanatics
who cry to every defence agitation “ Trust the
British navy, ” the very week that Great Britain
decided to reduce its naval programme, five of its
warships (four first-class battleships and a cruiser)
were out of action by accidents—the Montagu,
the Duncan, the Hindustan, the Dominion, and
the Good Hope. Those were the casualties of
Deace time.
AN UP-TO-DATE TROPHY.
A good watch for half-a-crown! What a marvellous
triumph of industry. How do they do it for the money?
Freetrade Paper.
“Ah! I'm in this. Allow me to hand you a
copy of one of our pamphlets.”
Portion of a message sent from England
to the “Australian"’ (Melbourne) Women’s
League by Janet Mrs. Clarke
With steady work let us combine that divine spark of
enthusiasm for a good cause which carries all before it.
Thus can we prove our unswerving allegiance to our
motto, “ Pro Deo et Patria.”
The sentiment, “For God and our country,”
quite naturally comes to Australia from another
country, and from a member of one of the land-
monopoly families which love their own continent
so passionately that they consistently stay away
from it, and spend the revenue derived from
their enormous holdings of Australian land in
other regions. The Clarkes and other absentees
lay claim to so great a portion of the Common-
wealth that the average landless Australian is
sometimes inclined to doubt whether he has a
country.
That sturdy, independent backbone of the
country, the farmer, who gets his goods carried
by rail in N.B.W. for less than one-third of the
average rate, has just had another concession—
“reapers, harvesters, binders and strippers re-
turned from the country for repairs will be carried
at half rates.” Still, as everybody who reads the
Foreign-trade papers knows, farming is “ the
natural industry of the country,” which doesn’t
require anything in the shape of bonus, subsidy,
or Protective duty, and all other industries are
bogus and parasitic.
Concerning Cape politics :
A general election is due at the Cape next year, but a
crisis may be precipitated before then. Premier Dr. Jim
has quite lost his grip of his party, and many Minis-
terialists, conscious of a tremendous revulsion of feeling
in favor of the South African party, are anxious to break
away from the Imperial Unionists, otherwise the “ Pro-
gressives.” The “ Progressive ” Ministry has rushed the
country into something bordering on State and individual
bankruptcy. Even the purely Mritish constituencies are
full up of the incompetent Raider. In a little while Dr.
Jameson will disappear from politics. As Premier he has
proved the record failure.
The patience of S. Australian Premier
Price in his struggle to fix up a compromise with
the Legislative Council on the franchise question
stretched out the conference between the two
Houses over three days. The oldest S. Australian
politician can’t remember any previous conference
that didn’t throw up the job if it couldn’t agree
at the first sitting. But large landlord Duncan,
almost a dictator in the Council, would have been
just as immovable after .‘lO days’ argument. What
is the use of being rich if you can’t be unrea-
sonable ?
If rom a correspondent, with a fine, gener-
ous flow of language:—
Carruthers and Wade and Ashton ministerially admin-
ister, not according to Cabinet carelessness of the
counting of Parliamentary noses, but according to the
bias of outside busy-bodies, ducky cliques, sacrosanct
coteries, scaramouch scribes, anaemic brotherhoods, skin
and hair sisterhoods, sour-souled sectarians, bowelless
wasps, and Lord-help-us yokels, who no more represent
the masses of vigorous, reckless, lively, liberal-minded,
plucky, enterprising, spendthrift, sport-loving, hard-
working, joyful, nation-building Australians than a larri-
kin is typical of the professional Board of Sydney
University, or a welsher is symbolic of the committee of
the A.J.C.
George Reid, shouting at Dubbo on behalf
of Acton, his candidate for the Darling (N.S.W.)
said proudly: “ Mr. Acton will go into Parlia-
ment absolutely untrammelled.” And so he will,
barring his cast-iron promise and pledge to oppose
the graduated land-tax, the nationalisation of
monopolies, new industrial legislation, &c., and
his undertaking to follow Reid, and to support
the whole anti-Sosh policy. Rut what foolishness
it is to talk of any candidate being free and un-
trammelled. Every man is elected because he
pledges himself solemnly to vote this way or that
on every important question then before the
electors. The untrammelled candidate exists
only in a fool’s imagination.
J lie Victorian Board of Health has a long,
weary row to hoe. It tried for years to get the
municipalities to keep themselves de-
cently clean and honest in the matter
of milk production and distribution,
and at last it was forced to take the
job in its own hands. Now it bumps
against the councillor’s brother, the
J.P. The law provides “up to £2O”
penalty for a first offence of milk adul-
teration, up to £5O for the second, and
up to £lOO thereafter—but the J.P.
never makes the fine more than 10s if
he can help it, and often he makes it
55.. or Is., or dismisses the case Unless
there is a minimum fine, below which
even the dirtiest J.P. can’t go, it is
mighty little use having a Health Act in
Victoria. “Up to” always kills it.
Dear Bulletin. —ln Bulletin of
Sept. 20 one “J.” squeals a lot about
“Labor treachery.” Well, the return
of a few more decent Laborites in the
stead of some of the ignorant little
people now riding for a fall is good
enough to excuse even the thing which
“J.” calls “treachery,” but which
isn’t. I am carrying all “the Labor
banner m Bourke”—there is no ques-
tion of local solidarity, and there is
absolutely no chance for a Freetrader
to slip in. Last election-figures prove
that. If all these little people object
to a fight so much, why not make mem-
- - , Cl ’ —* -w- I ,7 lvivv iII D 111
bership of the Reps, hereditary ?—Randolph
Bedford. *
The proposed Factory legislation, by which
the Vic. Government hopes to get somewhere near
level with the tricky Chinese employer, elicited
quite a wail from Balfour, M.L.C. Balfour says
the Chows are a thrifty, law-abiding class, also
“a very clever people” on whom Australians
mistakenly “look down.” To which The Bulle-
tin can only say that if Balfour feels quite sure
that he doesn’t “ look down ” on the Chinese in
any way—for dirt, squalor, bad smells, over-
crowding, or any other cause whatsoever— he can
go and live in the Chinese quarter with his wife
and family, and get Pastor Worrall to go along
with him. This writer won’t go.
Vic. Premier Bent states that the time
has come for an increase and general revision of
the absurd Victorian land-tax, and if he can
carry that he deserves a statue—a glorified statue
showing an ideal Bent, Oft. high, proportioned
like a Greek god, with a halo above his head and
a thunderbolt in his hand. He also declares his
intention to resume 1,000,000 acres of the Western
District for closer settlement, and says that he
sees his way to provide £1,000,000 out of revenue
towards repayment of loans, and to find £600,000
for railways, also out of revenue ; and he has a
forest-clearing scheme in view which he hopes
will make a good part of the 3,000,000 acres of
big-tree country in Gippsland fit for settlement.
And this tremendously energetic old man will
turn into his 69th year before The Bulletin’s
next Christmas number (which will be a marvel
of interest both in the literary and artistic sense
and dirt cheap at 6d.) sees the light.
THE MISFORTUNATE MILLIONAIRE.
Andrew Carnegie, multi-millionaire of Pittsburg, U.S. A.,
has appealed to the public bodies of Scotland to help him
to rid himself of 55 millions.
ANDREW : “Help! Help! Help I Pull me out!”
SANDY : “Hoot, ye daft body, ye, I was jist gain'
to ask ye to pull me in.”
An unusual accident happened lately to
the Labor candidate for Wannon (Vic.). At a
small and friendly meeting he was so badly
attacked by stage fright that he broke down and
could not speak another word. Yet he is a much
better-informed and abler man than plenty who
can talk for 10 hours.
The recently passed Queensland Infant
Life Protection Act plainly assumes that the
illegitimate child doesn’t always get a
fair chance of becoming more than a
temporary addition to the population.
It provides that in every case of the
death of an illegitimate infant a magis-
terial inquiry shall be held. This will
be rough on the “motherly persons”
named Wood and Stone, in whose care
the child of the ringless mother is so
unaccountably misfortunate.
As might have been expected, the Good
party in Victoria is already demanding another
referendum, at next election, as to the Bible in
State Schools question. The said party was
weakly truckled to at last election, and got its
referendum, and was defeated with great slaughter
—but that makes no difference; it says it
won a moral victory, or something of that sort.
The Good party got its last referendum, which
cost a lot of public money, on its assurance
that it had a majority. The assurance proved a
lie, but the Good party didn’t offer to pay any of
the money. Now, it revives the old lie about its
majority, but again it doesn’t offer to put up any
money for the referendum.
Premier Bent threatens an attack on the
octopus tram company, which will make every-
body in Melbourne but the handful of share-
holders arise and call the name of Thomas blessed.
For ten years past, the public has been clamor-
ing for a fair system of tram fares. At present,
the co. sells eight tickets, to carry passengers
within the city boundaries, for a shilling ; and,
on some lines, sells by the dozen twopenny tickets
covering certain sections. On all other lines it
costs threepence to jump on and off a tram
on the same block, and, unless the passen-
ger purchases tickets by the dozen, this rule
applies throughout the system, whether in or
outside the city. To all demands the company
has, in effect, told the public to be darned.
But the original Tramway Act contains a section
under which Parliament has power to revise the
fares charged by the octopus, and this Bent
threatens to put into operation. A short Bill,
enforcing penny sections, would go through the
Assembly almost without objection. In the House
of Rich Landlords nobody would dare oppose
it but the two directors of the co. Unluckily,
Bent is so busy with his Bill to abolish the man
who hits another (by the other’s consent) with a
pillow, that he isn’t likely to get time this session
to deal with the monstrously profitable monopoly
which hits 500,000 people with an extortion, and
never asks their consent.
A good sample
of the fatuity of
the Political
Labor Leagues is
being given in
connection with
the Corangamite
(Vic.) division.
Last election this
seat was won by
the Tory and
Freetrade Wil-
son, on a scan-
dalous minority
vote. He had
three opponents
—Dunne (Liber-
al and Protec-
tionist), who got
within 400 votes
of him ; Wynne
(m oderately Li b-
eral), who polled
some 2500; and
Woods (Labor),
who got over
1000 votes. Wil-
son was returned
on less than 4000
votes. This time
Dunne is in the
field again, and
if the fight were
left to the two,
Wilson would
fall to a cer-
tainty. But the
Corangamite
Labor Leagues
have decided to
run a candidate
—an unknown
Ballarat book-
seller. He will
probably get 1500
votes or so ; pos-
sibly just enough
to let Wilson
back again. And
anyone who
knows Wilson
can size up that
calamity.
General-manager Corbould, of the English-
owned Lloyd’s mine (N.S.W.), was asked, the
other day, whether the Australian workmen
didn’t resent the labor-saving machinery and
processes he has been introducing; and he gave
them this certificate
I have been in most parts of the world, and have had
the handling of all classes of men, but give me Aus-
tralians. Once they have confidence in you they will
help you to make the most difficult proposition a success.
It has been my experience here, not only in the smelting
department, but in the concentrating and mining, that
the foremen and the men under them are keen to make
their respective departments a success. One keeps
reading that Australians cannot produce this or manu-
facture that, but my opinion is that they can do any-
thing. Get them to take a pride in their work, and have
confidence in their manager, or foreman, and they will
produce and manufacture anything equal to any other
nation of the world.
IN A NEW GUISE.
We have heard so much about “Mr. Judkins
allegations ” that in future we will always think
of him as the alligator Judkins.
For the Federal elections, read ‘ ‘ A Policy
for the Commonwealth,” by James Edmond,
price 6d., post free; and “On the Trail of the
Trust,” by Bulletin writers, freely illustrated,
price Is., post free.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report re wool:
For our first sale of the weekly series we submitted an
attractive catalogue of 3044 bales to a record attendance
of buyers. Competition was keen, values ruling higher.
In greasy, highest price was 12Jd., paid,for 17 bales super
com. hoggets of YAMMA wool from Narrandera district,
48 bales Ist com. realising Hid., 21 bales broken lid., and
Ist pcs. 9J. This wool was exceptionally good staple and
quality, in light condition, soft, but showing a few burrs.
JONES/MERIGAL from the Castlereagh sold to 12d. for
Ist com. W., Ist com. E., making lljd., being of fine
quality, good staple, bright, but rather earthy and burry.
EREMERAN from Nymagee, 35 bales Ist com. W.H.,
brought lid., 21 bales Ist clo., W.H., 10Jd., 29 bales Ist
pcs., W.H., 10d., good quality and staple, but somewhat
earthy and seedy. CLAVERTON from Cunnamulla (Q.),
of good quality and staple, but rather earthy, made
to lid. for Ist coni. E., other lines of this mark selling
well in proportion. STAGMOUNT from Central Queens-
land also realised a similar figure. A further consign-
ment of the JONES/BULLAGREEN brand from the
Castlereagh sold to Hid., summer lambs realising 10|d.
The wool was of fine quality and staple and bright, show-
ing a little burr. In scoureds2l£d. was secured for 27 bales
A.E., of COUNSELL/LYNDON, from Central Queensland,
the parcel being bright and light, though carrying a little
seed. JRL/WTRRAH from Mungindi sold to 21Jd., for 64
bales Ist coin., 15 bales clo. making 21d., being of good
quality and staple and well prepared. At auction and
privately we sold 3072 bales. We sell again on 15th.*
THE DEAR OLD PIONEERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Angelic Fatmen, true to earthly ways,
Have parcelled out all Heaven among their clan,
And luckless new arrivals, nowadays,
Are greeted with, “ Go on the clouds, young man.’’
VIC.
N. LILLEY.
THE WORFUL WESTRALIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Perth Secession-Monger starts to think instead
of wail
This apologue may block his mental gizzard :
The mutilated lizard quickly sprouts another tail,
But what about the tail that lacks a lizard ?
VIC.
N.M.L.


IN BUYING
CALLAGHAN
BOOTS or SHOES
You ALWAYS get full value for your money.
You CAN NOT buy Boots that are REALLY
Cheaper.
Send for...
THE NEW
Callag'han
vStyle-
BooK.
JUST
ISSUED,
POSTED
FREE.
A
-S-
-<*
r
o
sdf
o
o
A
A
O
Good
Shape,
Good
Wear.
A GLANCE
AT THIS
BOOT
COES A
LONG
WAY.
CALL AND
SEE IT!
In Black
Duoro Calf,
or Tan
Willow Calf,
21/-
OR
22/-
POST AND DUTY FREE ALL
OVER THE COMMONWEALTH,
Including WEST AUSTRALIA.
r
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Every Pair carries sole stamp “CITY BOOT.”
gsdf
POST YOUR ORDER
TO-DAY.
*i’ Wealth of N.S. Wales.
The Mines and Minerals of New South Wales. Price, 1/3; post free.
This is the most interesting and instructive work dealing with the mineral wealth of the
otate. ully illustrated, and contains articles on—
Silver Lead Mining
Gold Mining
Copper Mining
Tin Mining
Antimony
Tungsten Ores
Iron
Kerosene Shale
Coal and Coke
Opal
Marble, &c., &c.
A full range of the ever useful and practical Hand Books edited by
PAUL HASLUCK—
Knotting* and Splicing Hopes and Cordage
Beehives and Bee Keeper’s Appliances
Electro plating ...
Cycle Building and Repairing
Saddlery ...
Upholstery
Working
Harness Making
House Decoration
Boot Making and Mending
How to Write Signs, Tickets and Posters
Wood Finishing...
Dynamos and Electric Motors
Decorative Designs of all Ages for all Purposes
Is. 2d
Post Free.
A DISTINCT AID TO THE BUSY WORKER.
TECHNICAL INSTRUCTION MANUALS.
Edited by PAUL HASLUCK. With Numerous Illustrations.
Practical Staircase Joinery
Practical Metal Plate Worker
Practical Gas Fitting 1 ...
Practical Draughtsman’s Work
Practical Graining and Marbling
Painters’ Oils, Colors and Varnishes
Practical Plumbers’ Work
Practical Handrailing ...
Practical Pattern Making
Practical Brickwork
Practical Painters’ Work
Boot and Shoe Pattern Cutting and Clicking
2s. 3d.
Post Free,
The books in this series are highly recommended to all practical workers.
WORK VOLUMES, 4s. 6c/., post free.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.,
UP-TO-DATE
PUBLISHERS, BOOKSELLERS,
STATIONERS, &c.
476 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
AND ALL BRANCHES.
gs
Refiners and
Sole Manufacturers of
ESTABLISHED 1884.
SAN FRANCISCO, and 117 Pitt St., Sydney
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHER ROOFINGS.
THE ROOFING
that is the most satisfactory for all-
round purposes is Malthoid. It is
equally good for a flat or pitched
Roof, for a fowl-house or stable.
FOR THE COUNTRY
house or store, for the suburban resi-
dence or city factory, it is unequalled
for durability, combined with weather-
proof qualities. Send lor Booklet.
11 it is not seemly, do it not; if it is not true, speak it not.”
■Marcus Aurelius.
WILLIAM BALDWIN
W. S. FRIEND & CO.,
JAMES W. JACK,
NORMAN & CO.,
E. T. HARRIS,
HEDLEY BUTTON,
BRISCOE & CO., LTD.,
Aust. Rep.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington, N.Z.
Adelaide, S.A.
Townsville, Q.
Launceston, Tas.
Melbourne, Vic.
JAMES McEWAN & CO., LTD., Melb., Vic.
JAMES SANDY & CO., Sydney, N.S.W,
JOHN BURNS & CO., LTD., Auckland, N.Z.
G. L. DENNISTON, Dunedin, N.Z a
WILLIAM SANDOVER & CO.. Perth, W.A.
EDWARD REECE & SONS, Chch., N.Z.
E. L. YENCKEN & CO. Pty., Ltd., Melb., Vic.
THOMSON, BRIDGER & CO., LTD., Invercargill N.Z". '
THE N.Z. LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD., Brisbane, Q.
BOVRIL
Supplies Energy.
Bovril gives Strength to Resist
Disease and greatly aids
recovery from exhausting
illness.
“ I’ll Try It."
Do YOU Want a Moustache?
can have one in quick time if you want
it. The judicious use of
CAPILLARINE
according to directions will produce a full Moustache
on ANY lip.
SOLD IN THIS COUNTRY FOR 20 YEARS, AND. NO COMPLAINTS !
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN THE WORLD FOR 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Result.
n V
The MODERN
HOSTESS, &
“I give you 'KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great 'points:
1. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E, Rowlands,,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT.”
m
M
rf
<C- h
M
ER
2h
v Pp OIH
MA/y
PA WATER)
£k flat springs
!T*rVr
' M!n
z»r I™* «^ ,n,t
Elands
»./M IfPklP - t
SFACQ


“M°TA” BRAND
Motor Car Spirits
Are the finest power spirits the world produces.
Sold by all Motor Manufacturers,
Importers, Repairers, etc., or of
The BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
Agents, Adelaide, Melbourne & Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Sp rit.
Highest Grade
American ...
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
An Insurance Man
Sings Loudly the Praises of Dr. Morse's
Indian Root Pills.
Mr. C. H. Tonkin, late of Armidale, and now
of Ridge-street, Merewether, Newcastle, praises
of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and writes as
follows:—“Gentleman, your valuable little book
on home nursing to hand. It is a publication that
no household should be without; the information
contained therein is worth pounds. Like Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, it is a boon to the
general public. I cannot speak of any wonderful
cure being accomplished for the simple reason
that I believe in the old adage, ‘prevention is
better than cure, ’ and during the last three and a
half years I have had the best of health through
using Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. If ever I
felt out of sorts I go to Dr. Morse and take two
or three of his little pills on going to bed and get
to business next morning as right as rain. Mv
wife used to be a martyr to headache un
recommended by a friend to try the above remedy,
which has proved a boon to her, and we can both
sing loudly the praises of this household medicine.
It has saved doctors’ bills for years,” Throughout
Australasia Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
household remedy, and the antidote for all general j
ailments. In thousands of homes the little
bottle is the sole medicine chest, for there are few'
complaints in which Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills cannot be administered without beneficial
results. Whatever the ailment, it is imperative
that the bowels should be cleansed and kept free,
and that the process by which the blood is purified
shall be stimulated to drive out the foreign humors
from the system, which are the cause of all
disease.*
IF YOU WISH TO BUY, SELL, OR HIRE
A MOTOR LAUNCH,
A MOTOR CAR,
Or fIARINE ENGINE,
Call or write for List and Booklet.
THE MOTOR LAUNCH & CAR SALE AGENCY, LTD.,
CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY. Tel. 1760.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament).
THE 19th ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING
of the Members will beheld in the Royal Exchange, on
MONDAY. 22nd OCTOBER, 1906, at noon.
BUSINESS:
To receive Reports and Balance-sheet to 30th September,
1906.
To Elect one Director in place of W. C. Goddard, Esq.,
who retires (under Clause 77 of the Articles of As-
sociation), and who offers himself for re-election.
To Elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. W. Clarke and
F. Phillips, who retire, but are eligible for and seek
re-election.
To consider an.v other business of which due notice shall
have been given, in accordance with the Articles of
Association.
A. PERCE VAT. BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’ConneU-street, Sydney, 9th October, 1906.
BEST PRESENT FOR
THE BOYS!
ri'HE New Wizard Gy-rotary Top.
J Spins in any position, upside-down,
sideways, on the pedestal, or runs along
a wire. Complete with pedestal, string,
and full directions ; only 1/- carriage
paid. Send stamps of any State.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
SIZE
Missing Friends.
MAGEE, DANIEL, late of Bendigo,
Victoria, son of the late Arthur Magee.
Information required by the undersigned as to
his whereabouts. If he, or any one who knows
him, will communicate it will be to his advan-
FRANK J. MACOBOY,
Solicitor,
Albion Chambers,
Bendigo, Victoria.
JOHN DEMPSTER MILLER, Ship’s
Steward, last heard of in 1886, in Brisbane.
Communicate with JOSEPH ELLERY,
IRVINEBANK, N. QUEENSLAND.
CN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Up till Saturday the campaign at Randwick
between the bookmakers and punters had inclined rather
m favor of the latter. That is as much as it ever does
incline their way, and they swarmed out to the course on
Saturday afternoon to give the Ring the coup de grace.
The first race, the High Weight Handicap, ended slightly
in favor of the Ring. Harvest Lad was the favorite, but
Berthier was in almost equal demand, and the Ring laid
4to 1 against them. Through a wretched start Berthier
was last when they entered the straight, but he walked
up on the outside and led home, with Arlington’s head at
his shoulder. For the Members’ Handicap the public
rushed Artful, and she dropped to 6 to 4, with Banzai at
sto 1 second choice. Yabba Gabba was in slight demand
at 7to 1. At the finish Banzai ran out, and the mare cut
in and won easily. This was a facer for backers. The
Dowling Steeple and Waverley Handicaps both favored the
Ring, but up to the Randwick Plate the public had at
least mentioned the names of the winners occasionally.
It was in the Plate the skinner commenced. Lady Wallace
was looked upon as such a certainty that the ring de-
manded odds of 3 to 1 on. What money Lady Wallace
didn’t carry went on Dividend at 4to 1 against. Against
the winner, Noreen, anything between 15 and 20 to 1 was
available, but the mare’s name was hardly mentioned.
Till within the last few yards Dividend’s backers believed
they had scored, and then Scully’s mare went past him
with a bound, in spite of the fact that she ran very wide.
It was a stone-broke crowd that went back to watch the
Final Handicap after having put its last cent on Oak
Grafton, with Berthier for a saver, at 5 and 6 to 1 against.
The winner, Vanadium, was never mentioned, and
included only under the vague term “ the rest ” or “the
field." The result was that the restaurants that had
been crowded on the other nights of the carnival were
empty and desolate on Saturday ; the bookmakers dined
in their usual haunts, and the punters were looking
for any forgotten counter-lunch.
* * • +
Whispered now that the Crick stable had no
great hopes of Oollarit winning the Derby, and had laid
most of the money off, the gentleman who does the
betting in connection with that horse deeming it better
to make sure of several medium-sized hauls than to risk|a
fortune on the great gamble. In the public estimation
the Criclr star had set when Oollarit was cut down so
sensationally by Poseidon in the Derby, but on Monday
the bay colt started in the New Stakes a hot favorite at
sto 2. He was given his head, and went to the front
immediately, staying there till the finish. On Wednesday
the bookmakers would not lay the odds against him for
the Grantham Stakes. A commission had been worked,
and he started at sto 4 “ on.” Once more he was given
his head, and once more he led from start to finish, run-
ning home an easy winner by three lengths. He covered
the mile in lmin. 48sec. Reported in Sydney on Wednes-
day that the Oriole stable cleared over £3OOO by these two
wins.
* * * *
Although in rattling good company, Metro-
politan winner Solution made a runaway match of the
A.J.O. Craven Plate at Randwick on Wednesday. How
these bookmakers know where danger apprehends 1 The
race finished with Lady Wallace ten lengths behind the
winner, and Isolt four lengths behind Lady W., a bad
third. It was a reflex of the betting, which was sto 4
against Solution, 7 to 4 against Lady Wallace, and 6 to 1
against Isolt. Berthier, much fancied for the Epsom,
was fifth, and the voice of Christian Moses scornfully
offered 12 to 1 against his hqpes. The question arises,
does Holy Moses know these things from “ form,” and by
dint of early rising and lying in culverts and drain pipes,
or is there an occult knowledge 1 It would be interesting
to find out.
***■*
Solution’s win of the Metrop. on Monday was a
great performance, but her success over Lady Wallace,
Emir, Dividend, Marvel Loch, Isolt, Antonious and co.
(following Wednesday) appeared really remarkable, and
brought an offer of £4OOO from Rupert Clarke, who gave
£3OOO for another Maorilander—Canteen—a couple of
years ago, and got none of it back. Solution, however,
didn’t survive the critical examination of Rupert’s
trainer (Scobie), consequently no business resulted.
The time (2min 9isec.) for Craven Plate (ljm.) isn’t par-
ticularly speedy alongside Hova’s record (2min. 6see.), but
Solution had the race her own way a quarter-mile from
home. Rarely have top-notch horses been beaten in such
hollow fashion. Solution now looks particularly choice
for Melbourne Cup, wherein she is much better treated
than in the big Caulfield event, though the latter is by no
means beyond her. Most people' fear Solution may
paralyse Melbourne Cup betting, but expert trainer
Scobie’s pronouncement against her is sure to divert
heaps of coin other ways. Solution’s loads (including
penalties) in Caulfield and Melbourne Cups are 9.5 and 5.4
» * « »
Comparative mediocrity of N.S.W. leppers was
accentuated in Dowling Steeple, at Randwick, on Satur-
day, when, of seven starters, only three were locally
owned, and t’other four supplied the three placed horses
—all Victorians.
Most successful jockeys at A. J.C. meeting were
L. Hewit" (M.L.) and J. Barden and A. Hood (N.S.W.),
with three wins each. Hewitt was up on the first nag
home in each of the three richest things—Epsom,
Metrop., and Breeders’ Plate. He had to shed a heap of
tissue to ride Maximize lib. over the allotted 7.7.
* * * *
Poseidon is a rather encouraging circumstance
for people who are prepared to pay high figures for high-
toned youngsters. The A.J.C. Derby winner fetched
500 guineas at auction as a yearling.
* « « »
S A. Jockey Club had only £3753 through the
totalisator on the second day of its Derby meeting, which
is a “record lowest.” The total last year was £5510, and
five years ago, £9298. However, the club considered
itself rather lucky to get its Derby run at all. It had
two days Of perfect weather, after waiting three weeks
for it; but within 12 hours of the last race the course was
under water again.
■»***.
Horsey men will be interested to see the result
of the three weeks’ difference in the date of the A.J.O.
spring fixture, whereby the last Saturday’s racing at
Randwick comes only one week previous to Guineas day
at Caulfield. This condensation of the big spring racing
into a period of six weeks—from the beginning at Rand-
wick to the finish at Flemington—may prove advantageous
or otherwise to the owners of horses that are sent along
from Sydney to Melbourne, and to the “books” whose
market for the two Cups is made shorter and perhaps
more lively. It happens strangely that the in-
novation has been introduced in a year when
the Flemington training track is damaged by flood waters.
On this occasion, at any rate, the N.S.W. trainers can
congratulate themselves on not having wanted to get
their visiting teams to Melbourne by September 20th or
thereabouts. Last year, for instance, the winner of the
Metropolitan (Maniapoto), had changed his quarters and
caught a cold fully two weeks before the beginning
of the Caulfield Cup meeting, and Marvel Loch, after
running second in the Randwick Plate, had a
spell of four weeks ere she made her first Mel-
bourne appearance for the season in the Caulfield
Stakes. This year any Randwick performers that are
wanted at Caulfield will be somewhat rushed, and, if the
change of climate affects them, they’ll have little enough
time for getting used to it. On the other hand, thev are
not likely to “ stale off ” before Melbourne Cup week, as
often happened to visiting horses in the past. And from
the point of view of punters in general it is better to have
a shorter attack of gambling evil, crowded with incident,
than the prolonged agony of yore.
Wealthy sport Mr. Robert Orr, who died at
Wendouree (Vic.) last week (cetat 72), “ worth £100,000,”
did remarkably well with racehorses, and gathered,
among other rich things, Melbourne Derby and Cup. For
long, deceased rode his own ’chasers, and opposed Adam
Lindsay Gordon on more than one occasion.
N.S. Wales’ so-called Anti-Gambling Act came
into operation on Monday last before copies of the
measure, as finally passed, were available at the Govern-
ment Printing Office. At time of writing, it is still
impossible to get a copy, and no one who has hitherto
lived by the business knows exactly where he stands. On
Tuesday afternoon, the betting-shops, with a few excep-
tions, were quiescent, marking time till copies of the Act
were available, when the best legal talent in Sydney will be
employed for the purpose of driving all the racehorses in
Australia through the measure. A few of the smaller
shops have unfeignedly closed up, and the men who ran
them have started out to find other occupations.
* * * *
The arguments used by the anti-gambling
advocates include some wonderful misstatements of fact.
During the second-reading speeches on the Vic. Gambling
Bill, one member said that there was no racecourse
within 20 miles of London, although every sporting man
knows that Epsom is only about half that distance from
Charing Cross, and Sandown and others are less than 15
miles away. Another member referred in lugubrious
tones to the alleged fact that nearly every suicide is
attributable to the gambling evil, and after every Mel-
bourne Cup numbers of suicided bodies are carried to the
morgue. Yet Sub-Inspector Davidson, who spent 21
years in charge of the Melbourne morgue, declares that
he has never known a case in which gambling was the
cause of suicide, while as for tlie Cup fiction and the
alleged accumulation of bodies about that time, Novem-
ber is really rather an off-month for felo de se.
* * * *
Sydney cricketers had no practice matches
worth speaking of this season, and the first grade compe-
titions started with a bang on Saturday afternoon last.
The weather was charming, and the wickets soft and
easy. Nothing very startling occurred with the bat, the
play producing only one century. Some of the bowling
was decidedly good, like that of Newell and Garnsey, for
instance, but the rest was mostly successful through the
infernal quality of the batting. It was Hickson, of
Gordon, who made the century, and he banged up 119
before Brisbane, of Glebe, caught him off one of Cotter’s
hurtlers. Other batsmen who raised remarks were
White, Mackenzie, and Kerim the Syrian. They notched
75, 73 and 71 respectively. It was against Manly that
Newell made bis great display, bagging six for 12,'which
so broke up the side that it vanished for 75 only. Pye,
of Central Cumberland, took three of Redfern’s for 15 ;
Garnsey, of Burwood, knocked down seven of University’s
for 59, which was very consistent; and Dowd, of Pad-
dington, took five of Balmain’s for 47.
* * * *
Petersham Club (Sydney), which has been re-
markably successful in lower grade cricket, is very sore
over the refusal of the Association to admit it into tlie first
grade ranks this season. It started the season by run-
ning up the huge score for one day of 471 against a
country team representing the combined Southern dis-
tricts. Goodness knows how many runs Petersham could
have made, but half its men retired to give the haystack
eleven a show.
* * * *
Something about Australian swimmer, Cecil
Healy, at present on the other side of the mud-ball :
When he went to Edinburgh the braw Scots of theancient
city sympathised with him for coming so far to be licked.
They explained that he would nht be able to stand the
temperature of the Scottish water after the tropical sens
of Australia, and in any case the local champion Yuille
was regarded as invincible. However, in the 100yds.
Invitation race Healy beat Yuille with ease in 69sec., and
later on won the 50yds. in 26 2-ssec., with Yuille close
behind. After the race the Scots asked him to take
whusky, but there was a shade of suspicion in their
manner, which deepened to positive distrust when they
found out that he was non-alcoholic in his habits. He
reports that the Kaiser’s Cup, which he won in August,
is a trophy of exquisite workmanship. It is valued at
500 marks, which is somewhere in the neighborhood of
£25 of our lucre. The struggle consisted of three races
over 1000, 500, and 100 metres, two of which must be won
to secure the Cup. If there is a different winner in each
event, the prize goes to the competitor who won one and
finished second in the other. (Which contradicts the
first statement, but that is how the conditions read.) If
no winner of a heat conies second, then the chap that has
the aggregate quickest time for the three distances is
winner of the trophy. (Which hashes up the original
arrangement some more.) Any competitor who fails to
swim the 100 metres in a ljmin., or the 500 metres in
9min., or the 1000 metres in 20min. is debarred from com-
peting in the remaining heats of the race. The judges
decide at the bath in which order the distances shall be
raced. When Healy called round for the Cup he was
given half an acre of certificate to testify that he had law-
fully and failly won it, and then the spectacled man be-
hind the counter asked fora bond, or a deposit, or some
substantialsecurityofaboutthreetimesthevalueoftheCup
that it would not be taken out of Germany. So Healy rolled
up his certificate, hired a cart to take’it home, and left
without the Cup. His mother now covers one of the
walls of her home with the certificate. From Athens
Cecil sent his mater the huge wreath and certificate that
he received for his part of the Olympian games. The
wreath is of laurel and tied with blue and white
streamers. The certificate is in sepia, and shows a dis-
tant view of the Acropolis. Close handy is Fame in the
form of a Greek girl of exceptional beauty holding a pic-
ture of the wreath, while behind her another beauteous
damsel leans on her hands and watches proceedings.
Other highly interesting figures are scattered over the
paper, but those two girls monopolise all the attention.
Writer is starting for Athens next week to try to find
the originals.
•*■***
Another Ladies’ Swimming- Club has come
into existence in Bandwick (Sydney), to be called “ The
Wentworth,” after Willie Motor-Car’s electorate. The
headquarters are to be baths at Coogee Bay. This is the
fourth women’s swimming club in Sydney now.
* * * ' &
As usual, the last appearance in the Melbourne
football season took place in the police court. While
West and Footscra.v ere settling the ownership of the
Association pennant at East Melbourne, away out at the
Royal Park several extra-junior teams were deciding
their finals in their own sweet way. Half-a-dozen con-
stables were on hand to prevent kid-slaughter, but two
contesting teams—the Rockery and the Congress clubs—
adjourned to an adjoining paddock to settle the matter
with pickets and other arguments. The umpire earnestly
besought them to get on with the “ game,” and they did
so for five minutes, when once again the ball was ignored,
and the old arguments resorted to. Then the police hustled
the players off the ground for good, and put one extra
violent youth in a quiet place to cool off. The beaks spoke
to him gently on Monday, and told him tobe agood boy
in future, and fined him 10s. Still, it is possible that they
didn’t actually intend to encourage manslaughter at foot-
ball matches.
♦ * * *
The only people in Sydney who know how to
make proper use of the final stages of a competition are
they who run the Soccer football. Havinc- disposed of
the Gardiner Cup, they gave the winning club the chance
to prove that it was really the boss rooster on the perch
bv meeting, on Saturdaj’, a team picked from all the
defeated clubs. Glebe proved its superiority by winning
—three goals to two. By such skilful methods was the
gate agony prolonged to considerable profit.^
Even the gluttonous Yankee appetite for a sen-
sation ought to have been satisfied with the hilarious
doings during the progress of the Vanderbilt Cup race
for motor-cars on Long Island, U.S.A. The course was
30 miles long, and the total distance 297 miles. France,
Italv and Germany were the only European countries
competing, Britain declining to send any cars. The
winner turned up in Wagner, who drove a Darracq
(French) car over the 297 miles in 290 minutes. No less
than 200,000 people lined the course. One of the drivers
lost control of his car, which left the road, and plunged
through a fence among the people, smashing up the
driver and 20 onlookers. At the finish the fool crowd,
struggling to get a closer view, surged on to the course,
and two were killed.
* * * *
Just as it was said to have been an indigestible
leg of mutton that lost Napoleon Waterloo, so it was a
cur at Geelong that probably lost Le Gassick either the
fastest time or the first place in the Warrnambool-
Melbourne road race. Altogether three falls occurred
over dogs at Geelong. Le Gassick’s chances, previous to
the dog, looked particularly rosy. Subsequent to the dog
they were worth less than nothing. With only 18 minutes
start, he had travelled 120 miles without being apparently
distressed, and was only 10 minutes behind the leaders,
when a cheap canine, frightened at the shouting of the
people, suddenly crouched down in front of his wheel
instead of continuing its dash across the road. Le
Gassick came down on his head, which was cut so badly
that he was at once taken to the hospital. Some effort
should be made to trace the owners of cheap dogs like
that. A man whose cur is in the track of a race is a
public enemy.
The fifth of the series of six races, to decide the
ownership of the Chamberlain Cup, was run off by the
Pioneer Motor Cycle Club of N.S.W., on Saturday, over
the usual five-mile course on the Parramatta-Kingswood
road. The run ended in a win for M. G. Witham on a
twin-cylinder Rex-Orient machine, with Elliot and
Daniels second and third respectively. Elliot came into
the contest late, and at present Witham is leading Daniels
by a point in the general competition.
* X * \
Friday afternoon found the motor-boats that
went round from Sydney to take part in the St. George
regatta still weather-bound in Botany Bay. The result
was that the regatta fixed to take place at Manly, last
Saturday, had to be postponed till this coming Saturday,
when it is expected to transpire in undimmed glory.
The motor men are not impressed with Botany Bay as”a
racing course. The shoals are frequent, and a mud-
bank which would not hurt an open sailing boat may
utterly ruin an expensive motor-boat by tearing the shaft
out, or bursting up things generally. The propellers of
most motor-boats are not like those of steamers, above
the floor or edge of the keel ; they project downward, like
the belly-fin of a fish, and, if the boat grates, it’s the pro-
peller that stands the racket. Mr. Reeks, the well-known
marine architect, constructed a boat that is particularly
useful in shoal waters. A sort of half tunnel runs the
full length of the boat, in one end of which is fixed the
propeller, and in that covered way it is safe from any-
thing except a torpedo, or an obstruction which rips the
bottom right out of the vessel. And, when the last-men-
tioned catastrophe happens, it doesn’t matter a hang
about the propeller ; the only things of importance then
are the lifebuoys and the sharks.
Sydney Flying Squadron burst into the new
season on Saturday afternoon in great style. Six new 18-
footers, four of them fresh from the stocks, and a steady,
delightfully fresh nor’-easWr drew a huge crowd of spec-
tators. The new comers, with one exception, were under-
canvassed, and failed to do anything startling. The
exception capsized. The racing, was carried out with the
zest peculiar to the Flying Squadron, which plays for
keeps all the while. The first heat went to Vision, which
won from Arawa by over a minute. In the second, Don-
nelly hung grimly on to Merlin, and won on the post. In
the final the cut-throat tactics were very evident. Arawa
and Donnelly both regarded Vision as the dangerous boat,
and hampered it considerably, Donnelly pressing it so
close that it was almost driven ashore at Chowder Bay.
Going across the stream, Donnelly got its ballooner
twisted, and Vision and Merlin lost theirs overboard.
This mix-up let Arawa escape from the lee position, and
Donnelly, losing a man overboard, was put out of the
race. The Arawa flew on, with the Alert and Mona in
close pursuit, and tbev finished in that order, Arawa win-
ning by the close margin of 19sec.
* * * •
Schoolboy champion Birch was in rare trim at
St. Joseph’s College sports last w eek, and won the 220yds.
and 440yds. College Championships, the lOO.vds. ' All
Schools’Race, and a heat in the “ Quarter ” Handicap.
Birch has kept his “ form ” through all the schools’
events ; but still it is a questionable policy for a young
athlete to tear himself to pieces in endeavoring to annex
all the spare championships flying about. Such tactics
often wreck future chances.
* * * *
The balloon craze has spread from America to
Europe now, and last week’s cables told how 16 balloons
started from Paris in the Gordon-Bennett halloon race to
England. Of the 16 nine descended in France, among
the number being that of Santos Dumont, the ex-
Brazilian , whose balloon was a dirigable on e. The Bi azilia n
got his arm mangled in the motor machinery, and
descended near the town of Broglie. Eventually the
race was won by a Yankee, who landed near Whitby.
No particulars as to times were supplied, and altogether
it seems to have been a very hap-hazard affair. It is now
proposed to hold a similar contest every six months, but
any day may bring forth the heavier-than-air machine,
which will relegate the balloon to the place of the skin
canoe.
• * * *
The ill-luck of the Wren fights characterised
Artie Cripps v. Timothy Murphy, which took place at the
Melbourne Olympic’s brick cylinder on Saturday night.
There was the usual enormous attendance, the great en-
closure being packed tightat 10s., fis., and 25., and Arthur
and Tim got at it with every promise of a good entertain-
ment. The pair possess all the essentials for a fine dis-
play of scientific boxing. The first and second rounds
were lively and interesting, but did not affect the probable
issue, the men coming out practically as they were, though
Cripps was doing the leading, and his freshness and
jump inspired confidence in his chances. In the third
round, Murphy was cautioned for not breaking clean, and
presently Cripps dropped him with a lifting right. Tim
came up in a flurry, and took a whole heap of stoush till
the gong saved him. He came from his corner fairly
well, but the fight terminated hereabouts : Basto
gave it against Murphy on a foul, Tim having hit
Cripps while the referee was between them. There
was a terrific uproar, and manager Wren sent his gasman
into the ring to say that he disagreed severely with the
referee’s decision, and despised these feather-bed arrange-
ments, which, was an extremely injudicious thing for
him to do. His boxers had signed articles. His referee
was put into the ring to see that those articles were
observed. The referee warned Murphy once for infring-
ing, and then stopped him for a palpable offence. Of
course, it’s rough on the people who provide the beans-
otherwise, bring grist to the mill—to have a promising
display shut off thus in the flower and bloom of its
youth ; but, even if Wren’s assistant held forth eloquently
for two hours, it wouldn’t improve things.
Meaghan v. Bull, a 15-round preliminary to the
above disaster, was a gay and festive rough-up between
two strong, earnest lads who have not yet learned the
common rule that the prize-ring is a place to which pugs
resort to avoid fighting. It w T ent the full term, and
Meaehan got the verdict on points, although a draw
would have been more satisfactory to the patrons.
* * ’* *
Australian boxer Hock Keys returned to
Sydney last week. One glance explains how it was he
1 ailed to settle the Englishman Fred Welsh and Yankee
Cullen. The man is ill, and, judging by appearance,
uite unfit to enter the boxing square.
H.” re the Cripps-Murphy shindy :— Th®
decision was most unsatisfactory. The men were
cleanly broken when the blow was struck, and, under
strict Queensbery rules, it was a fair one. The trouble
is that, in Melbourne, they never fight under Queens-
bery rules—one of which states distinctly that no
persons but the fighters shall be in the ring. The
American practice of having the referee in the
ring which Melbourne follows puts a premium
on foul fighting, especially when the referee is
half Spanish and half Irish, and has a temperament
accordingly. Stokesbury never lays his hands on the
fighters. Basto seldom keeps his hands off them. On
Saturday evening, he was attired in a nice white shirt and
dinner jacket, and his one object seemed to be to get
blood on his dicky. As there are no rules to govern the
position, it is uncertain whether men are free to hit the
moment the referee passes between or whether they have
to await the order to fight on. This fiasco ought to about
stop the silly practice which leads to two men boxing
and one wrestling the other two in the same ring.
Colonel Williams, late of Sydney, probably the best
referee ever seen, always steadfastly refused to enter the
ring. “If I can’t control the men from the side,” he said,
“ I certainly won’t be able to do so there.”


MULGRAVE CENTRAL MILL CO., LTD.,
CAIRNS, QUEENSLAND.
W
ANTED—RELIABLE CANE CUTTERS, FOR CUTTING- CANE UP TO THE
END OF DECEMBER,
above^ompa^fortweeks. 1 SW aV6l ' age W6ekly GarningS of 13 «« working for the
Marvellous Bargain
eap4sheei^L|>/tusiol
FULL MUSIC SIZE. EXCELLENTLY PRINTED EQUAL TO THE BEST
Only 2/- for Seven Pieces or 3/6 for Fifteen Pieces
The Chance of a
Lifetime.
We do it just to get
new customers.
Our Latest 240-page
Illustrated Catalogue
sent with each order.
Do not Delay or
you will be out
of it.
There’s a Big Stock, but
it will be soon sold.
The music shops will
want it, but we will not
sell more than one dozen
pieces to each person.
Post Free to any Address.
Any Six Pieces from List A for 2/- with One Piece from
List B given in.
Any Twelve Pieces from List A for 3/6 with Three
Pieces from List B given in.
List A
Alice, where art thou? Kathleen
Mavourneen. Hiawatha. A hun-
dred fathoms doep. A flower from
mother’s grave. The Glory Pong (the great mission
hymn). Glory March (an effective arrangement of
popular revival hymns*. Whisperings of love.
Blighted hopes. Dermot Asthore. Four curly
head* d coons. Hullo, Riley ! Sentenced to death.
Ger, a wife, young man. Always take mother’s
advice. Don’t you try to kiss me. The fairies*
home. Now isn’t it a pity? Johnny, the engine
driver. Those naughty, nauphty girls. Ben Bolt.
A boy’s best friend is his mother. Call me your
darling again. Dearest one, good-bye. My little
Irish queen. Narcissus I never can forget. Ship
that never returned. Then you’ll yemember me.
Village blacksmith. Yesterday. Washington Post
Mar. h. Blumenlied. Robin’s return. Moonlight
on the lake—and a thousand others to select
from—send for complete catalogue.
List B
Tensing'. Hear
the pipers call-
ing. In the
shade of the old apple tree.
Walking home with Ange-
I , ' ne * Stop your ticklin',
Jock. I wouldn’t leave my
litrle wooden hut. My Irish
Molly,0 1 Skylark. 1 see
you’ve got the old brown hat
on. His day’s work was
done. Blue lseil. Eva. The
man behind. Navaho. Give
me a ticket to Heaven. Kiss
me good night. Choristers
Waltz. Sammy. Bedelia.
When the harvest days are
over. Rainbow. Pansy faces.
Keep a cosy corner. My lady
Hottentot—and many others.
Popular and Copyright Music at Less Than 3d,
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union Manufacturing &. Agency
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Per Piece
Company,
COUNTRY VISITORS
New
Spring
Suitings
Stylish
Patterns
Should certainly take advantage of this splendid opportunity of
being measured, while in Sydney, for future orders, which they
surely will give us, after inspecting our unapproachable goods and
Store, which is the Largest Toiloring Establishment in the
Commonwealth.
All Measures kept for future reference.
Patterns, Self-measurement Forms and Fashion Plates sent to
any address on receipt of a postcard.
E. T. WALSH,
Merchant Tailor
and Importer,
359 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY .
The Shearer’s Companion
OR
The Boundary Rider’s priend
A FIRST-CLASS POCKET KNIFE, FITTED WITH
A SET OF TOOLS, ALL OF THE FINEST
MATERIAL, GUARANTEED TO GIVE UNBOUNDED
DELIGHT AND SATISFACTION.
IT would be difficult indeed to devise a more COM-
PLETE or USEFUL SET OF TOOLS than you
have here. SHEARERS, BOUNDARY RIDERS,
Sportsmen, Electricians, Farmers, Travelling
Workmen, Soldiers, POLICEMEN, MINERS, HORSE-
MEN, and ALL WORKING MEN will recognise in the
SHEARER’S COMPANION the most serviceable set of
Tools which they may require or for any emergency
The SHEARER’S COMPANION is NOT A COMBINA-
TION TOOL. Please note this very particularly. It is
a well recognised fact that most Combination Tools are
of no real practical value. One tool is hampered in its
operation more or less by another. You will see that
this is done away with entirely in the SHEARER’S
COMPANION. Each Tool is inserted at the end of the
Pocket Knife (2) at right-angle, then turn the tool hack,
when it is held as firmly, rigidly, securely and strongly
in its place as the best wooden handle you have used.
We positively guarantee there is no looseness or
“toothache” in the fitting whatsoever.
The tools given with the Outfit are : 1-Bladed Pocket
Knife (4in. in length); 4in. File (coarse and fine sides) ;
Saw (4in.); Chisel ; Screwdriver ; and Piercer and Rimer.
The whole enclosed in a very compact Leather Case or
Wallet, measuring only 3Jin. x 4in. when closed, and
which can he attached to the Belt or carried in the
pocket.
PRICE, COMPLETE, ONLY 10s 6d,
Postage 7d. extra anywhere.
No. 2 Outfit. Identical in every respect to the above,
hut fitted with an additional Steel Claw Hammer, also
Gimlet, and s£in. Steel Rule. In the No. 2 Outfit the
Chisel and File are combined. PRICE, only 12s 6cf
post free anywhere.
EVERY OUTFIT FULLY GUARANTEED. Blades
made from specially-prepared Steel of the finest quality.
These Outfits are unquestionably the greatest boon
ever brought out. Money refunded if not in every way
satisfactory.
A. J. SMITH & CO
MARTIN CHAMBERS, 6 MOORE ST., SYDNEY
Wade expressly for
A.J.SMITH & c q
SYDNEY
O
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POBT FREE.
Former Price, 18s.
Si
No. 122.
Former Price, 18s.
No. 127.
Former Price, 16s.
Former Price, 18s.
PS ,
ressi»
m
WWW)
No. 111.
Former Price, 14s.
»•
vhsb
W
sM\&r
No. 129
Former Price, 18s.
No. 130.
Former Price, 245.
ksr. ®
No. 120.
Former Price, 18s.
Former Price, 14s.
Si
NN
v/n
861
Former Price, 14s.
874
Former Price, 16s
Announcement extraordinary! Continuation of Sale!
9tG~FOf! ONE WEEK LONGER OF
BARRIOS DIAMOND JEWELLERY
ANY
ARTICLE,
4/~
EACH.
,, DIA MONDS are the nearest approach to the genuine diamond ever
Thev have alfthe i h d ’ a !l d are acutely guaranteed to retain their brilliancy for ever.
Jndean he wntheH ’ a " d f s P arkle of real gems, and will stand heat, acids, alkali, &c.
and can be washed and cleaned the same as real diamonds. So nearly do they resemble the
genuine that pawnbrokers have been deceived, and jewellers fooled.
YOUR
OUR LEASE EXPIRES. WE MUST SELL EVERYTHING.
CHOICE OF ANY ARTICLE FORMERLY SOLD FROM lOs. to 24s. EACH,
TO-DAY, AND WHILE THEY LAST,
THIS offer includes Thousands of Designs in Rings, Brooches, Pins, Lockets, Cuff Links, Earrings Pendants Studs
angles, Collar Buttons, &c., &c., all set with beautiful selected Barrios Diamonds. ’ ’
4/-
EACH.
MAIL ORDERS.
To give those in the country the opportunity of this „
your < monejMwil/be U refun'de^ enien, ' )er,,^OU send us your oXr withth^distinct'^ndersUndi'ng That TfThe goods
&f>e BARRIOS DIAMOND Co.
52 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE, 100 KING ST., SYDNEY.
OPEN SATURDAYS
TILL 10 P.M.
Former Price, 16s.
m
853^*^
Former Price, 18s.
//
W'
7^.
mm*
944 '■<
Former Price, 12s.
w
907
Farmer- Price, 14s.
935
Former Price, 245.
•wm?
mm
908
Former Price, 16s,
V/
ill
m
«s\\
601
Former Price. fBs.
875
Former Price, 16s,


(1) The best possible mail service.
(2) Every article we sell.
WHAT WE GUARANTEE!
(3) We assume every possible risk.
(4) Best Goods at Lowest Prices.
A. SAUND ERS.
Solid Silver-mounted PAPER 1> INIFE, highly burnished
steel blade, Tin Ir »ig, 2s 6d.
Other styles, 4s Cd, 5s 6d, 7s 6d r , Ss 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER VASE, pure
silver-mounted, moss
green glass, Is 6d.
Other Styles, Is 6d, 2s,
2s 3d, 28 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Doeskin TOBACCO POUCH,
best rubbert lining, pure
silver shield, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s, 5s 6d,
6s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Wishbone
LINKS, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARRIAGE CLOCK, finest
French 8-day movement,
solid brass case, enamel
dial, richly ornamented,
£B. Othe.- Styles, 255,
80s, 40s, to £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS,
RRV \D or CAKE SERVER, pure silver-plated, pearl
handle, 7iin long, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s Cd, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s Od, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Shield and
Dumbbell LINKS, 21s.
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Swan PIN
CUSHION, velvet top,
5s Gd. Other Styles,
le Gd, 2s 6d, 3s Gd.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
comprising' three pairs
Sheffield Steel Scis-
sors, 6s 6d.
Extra Quality, 11s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure silver-plated,
crystal glass, 8s (id.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
GOODS OF
QUALITY.
We sell
only the
good
Quality of Goods
that we
know
will please
and give you
every satisfaction.
All Goods
sent
POST FREE
to any
address in
Australasia
18ct. Gold Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2.
18ct. Gold, 5 fine
Pure Opals, £2.
Larger Opals,
£2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
New Zealand Greenstone
PENDANT, gold-mounted,
6s 6d. Larger, 7s 6d, 8s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, in
sizes, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s. All with
safety chain attached.
9ct. Gold PIN,
set pure White
Pearls, 12s 6d.
Ladies’ Black Open-face Key-
less WATCHES, 10s 6d,
12s. 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s 255.
Solid Silver, Hunting Cases,
255, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3.
dfg
A. SAUNDERS.
ENGLISH ROLLED-GOLD FRAMES, fitted ordinary Lenses, 12s 6d.
Astigmatic Lenses, 21s. Solid Gold, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
Our Crystalite SPECS., 3s 6d. Pure Pebbles, 4s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s.
WE ARE CONSULTING OPTICIANS.
BOE
sdf
m
n I
A. SAUNDERS.
18st Gold RTNG,
pure double-cut
diamond, £2,
Larger Diamond,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold MUFF CHAINS, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£4, £4 10s, £5, £6, £7, £B, £lO. Necklets
to match, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 30s, £2, £2 10s.
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Signet
RING, 20s.
15ct. Gold, 40s.
IBct. Gold, 50s.
Handsome 8-day Marbellette CLOCK, strikes hours and halves, rich, loud gong richly
ornamented ease, brass mountings, fancy dial, _ firs t‘ c^as „ s „ t ™® kee fi er L /1 £ " J rf i! s ‘
Kept in free repair for 2 years. Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 4ls oa, 5 .
9et. Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Ruby or Sap-
phire, 17s 6d.
Gent.’s Shaving
Steel Razor and
Quality, 15s.
ROLL, comprising finest Silver
4 useful articles, 12s 6d. Extra
With two Razors, 21s, 22s 6d.
9ct. Gold “Dinna
Forget” Friend-
ship CHARM,
7s 6d.
FREE for the
ASKING.
If you cannot
visit us,
send for
our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
Its exact
reproductions
take away
all uncertainty
from
MAIL BUYING.
It’s Free.
Just ask for it.
&
A. SAUNDERS.
COLLAR STUD BOX, pure
silver-plated, satin finish,
hand engraved, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
r-
Solid Silver Sovereign
PURSE, 7s 6d, 10s.
Silver Filled, 6s 6d.
Solid Gold, £2 10s.
Gold Filled, 22s 6d.
gsdf
18ct. Gold, pure
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3.
5 Pure Double-Cut
Diamonds, £5.
IHI
18ct. Gold, pure
double - cut Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£7 10s.
Oct Gold BRACELET, 3 pure double-cut diamonds,
with safety chain. £5. Diamond and 2 rubies, £4 10a.
Lady’s Solid Gold Hunting
Keyless Watches, Jewelled,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5,
£6, £i , £lO.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, and 5
years.
Crocodile Leather
Chatelaine Spec.
CASE, lCs 6d.
15s.
20s.
I
/
N
Strong, Reliable, Knockabout WATCHES,
8s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, "17s 6d, 20s.
Our “Guard,” 15s. Our “Railway,” 20s.
Specially recommended. All Guaranteed.
9et. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set pure
White Pearls, 20s.
Solid Silver Cloth or Hat BRUSH,
long white bristles, 5s 6d. Other
Styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s.
Field or Marine GLASSES, large
field of vision, 255. Other Styles,
12s 63, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s.
gs
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
Pearls and Ruby, 15s.
Solid Silver-mounted HAIR COMB,
Imitation Tortoiseshell, 7s 6d. Other .
Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6cL 5s Cd. 6s 6d.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Military HAIR
BRUSHES, long white bristles
10s 6d. Others, 8s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s.
Solid Gold ALBERTS, Single or Double, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5, £6. 15ct. Gold,
£5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO. Solid
Silver, 7s 6d, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s. Gold Filled,
15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, '3os.
Juvenile CUP, pure silver-
plated, richly engraved,
gilt lined, 8s 6d. Other
Styles, 7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
GOLD-
CHASED,
£4 4s.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVERS, £2,
£2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4, £5. Patent Gold-
Cased, £4 4s, £5 ss, £6 10s. Solid Gold,
£6 10s, £7 10s, £lO, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O.
Guaranted 5,6, and 7 years.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,)
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN, )
A. SAUNDERS
( 809, 81 I, 813, 815, B\7)
\ GEORGE-STREET, f
Opp.
Railway
Station,
Sydney.


/
.
.
i ms
f v> <
\
- . '
y {'
F )
r-
~ j>
0 £
>■■
Wvffi
'<»j
Jh
#1
'•
§JSf3
.. ’ i
icJa
ligigi
v*''wws'-,
/siS-iS Safe
few* **
SI
if
mm
mmsKm&Z. ,
jfV ,»• v *. -'■o'.£4
4 -T|
t;V ■*. >: • - ’
W Wi
wmt-
ViP?* S W 4 SV;
&v4j
'• ‘ .- ' , * :
%%m>A
.ml- ■ . ‘
•/•• • U ' • .-v • * /.*
»s
srwi‘4&S*?'vV'' „
« '
;
s;~'Av}-,
A Happy Day Ashore with YanKee Doodle.
Mo. 6. The End = Well, we've h ad a great da,; Now for worK again. After all, life aboard is all r«
with YANKEE DOODLE. B


From Our Store to Your Door.
We pay carriage on all goods excepting Furniture and Floor Covering to any Post Office or Railway
Station in the Commonwealth* We will send these goods on approval* paying the forward carriage*
A remittance must accompany the intending orefer if a new customer, the money being refunded if the goods are returned as unsuitable*
SHIRT WAIST BLOUSE, as illustrated,
White Ground Cambric, with Colored
Fancy Stripe, Spot, or Figure, Stiff
Cuffs, and Detachable
Collar ♦
4/11
dfg
sdf
No. 48.
Sizes 24, 27, 30 inches - 4/6
33, 36, 39 „ - 5/9
Useful FROCK, as illustration, in
Navy Cambric, with Small White
Spot, Yoke, Belt and Cuffs, Piped
with White.
1
No. 58.
SPECIAL BLOUSE, as illustration, in Pure
Linen, Hand Embroidered,
Back or Front Fastening,
1319
■ff'
' V'
f
PLEASE QUOTE NUMBERS WHEN ORDERING.
David Jones GX Co.
Opposite G.P.0.,
Sydney.
BILIOUS HEADACHES
REMOVED BY
KUTNOWS POWDER
A Famous Royal Academician
WHITES :
“1, Abbey Road, St. John’s
“ Wood, N.W., April 5,1905.
“I have used Kutnow’s Powder every
morning for the last five years, and it
has added to the pleasure of my life.
I take a tablespoonful every morning
when I rise, and find it a most refresh-
ing drink. I have never needed to
increase the dose, and it has acted per-
fectly in assisting Nature all this time.
I am now strong and healthy, and give
you my experience, which may be
useful.
“JOHN MaoWHIRTER, R.A.”
F. W. BUTLER, ESQ., 8.A.,
WRITES :
“ 9 Belvidere Place, Dublin,
“February 6, 1905.
“I feel bound to add my grateful
testimony to the merits of Kutnow’s
Powder, the effects of which to me
have been new life and invigoration.
Although having no faith in any medi-
cine for the habitual and severe consti-
pation I have suffered from for nearly
20 years, I procured a bottle of Kut-
now’s Powder. Its effect was all that
I could desire, bringing about a gentle,
natural action, almost unfelt, and
leaving the bowels in a healthy, natural
state.
“F. W. BUTLER, 8.A.”
BUSINESS PURSUITS, which keep the mind more or less upon the stretch for
eight, ten, and even twelve hours daily, generally expend more nerve force
than can be generated by the over-anxious-aspirant to success. Excessive
nervousness and irritability, as every unfortunate wife of a hard-driven brain-
worker well knows, is a very common result of overwork, sometimes exhibited in the
gentlest form, a slight feeling of languor, a disinclination to rise to the occasion of
the usual brilliant effort, a headache, inability to sleep soundly, disturbing dreams,
&c. Constipation aggravates the evil, and the digestive organs fail to keep pace
with the additional strain on the nervous system. The dangerous brain-condition is
that in which the cerebrum has become so benumbed as not to feel the peril and
demand a halt. The brain derives its sustenance from the physical fitness of the
organs of digestion, consequently the organs of excretion need likewise to be in
perfect working order. Men and women can stand any amr vjt of work as long as
the digestive and excretory organs are physically fit, and this condition can only be
relied on with unvarying regularity by means of Kutnow’s Powder.
PRESCRIBED BY PHYSICIANS.
HOW TO GUARD
AGAINST FRAUD.
The genuine and original Kutnow’s Pow-
der can be had of all conscientious
chemists. Examine the package and see
that it bears the fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and tfie registered
trade mark “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” which must also appear on every
bottle. You will then avoid fraud and
GET GENUINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN
WRITES :
“ Knock, Ennis, Co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Having: recently got from you a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I personally de-
rived much benefit, will you now kindly send me
a larger supply ? I really feel unsatisfied without
it myself, and I have recommended it to several
lady patients, who approve of it greatly. An
aged clergyman to whom I recommended it tells
me he finds it both effective and agreeable.
“ J. BOND SULLIVAN,
“ M.D., M.R.C.S., Eng., etc.
Splendid Testimony.
“2, Percy Road, Wrexham.
“Sirs, —Some five years ago I had
an acute attack of nephritis (inflamma-
tion of the kidney) and my doctor
advised Harrogate waters. After try-
ing them for some time with very little
result, the doctor suggested giving
Kutnow’s Powder a trial, with such
excellent result that in a short time I
felt very much better. I continued
taking it regularly every other day for
two years, and consider it worked an
entire cure.
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).’’
REV. A. H. MAWSON, M.A.,
WRITES :
“ Uffington Vicarage, Shrewsbury.
“Gentlemen, — I should be glad if
you could kindly send me a bottle of
the Kutnow’s Powder for a parishioner
to whom I have recommended it. From
my own experience of much benefit
derived from your Kutnow’s Powder I
feel sure that he would also derive
benefit from its use. It has certainly
been found by myself not only a simple
and safe remedy, but always an
efficacious one.
“(Rev.) A. H. MAWSON, M.A.
(“C.C. Coll., Camb.).”
KUTNOW’S POWDER
REMOVES
Stomach Disorders
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW « CO., LTD., 41 FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.


Amusements.
HALL, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES EVERY WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
EDISON’S POPULAR PICTURES.
The Greatest Array of “Living' Pictures" ever
seen in Sydney.
Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales, “ The White Rose.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Direction of Messrs. CLYDE MEYNELL
and JOHN GUNN.
SEVENTH WEEK of the FAMOUS MUSICAL DRAMA,
THE FATAL WEDDINC.
NEXT PRODUCTION— THE RAKE’S WIFE.
PRICES—POPULAR. Plan, Elvy’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY^
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Pronounced Triumph of CHARLES WALDRON, OLA
HUMPHREY and Mr. J. C. Williamson’s New Dramatic
Company in Milton Royle’s Melo-comedy Drama —
THE SQUAW MAN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
H EAT R E RO Y A L, S Y D N E Y.
Lessee J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Mammoth Drury-lane Spectacular
Drama,
THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
SATURDAY NEXT—The Drury Lane Spectacle,
A SAILOR’S KNOT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
OWN H A L L, SYDNEY.
Direction of . .. .. EDWIN GEACH.
Last THREE NIGHTS and ONE
MATINEE, SATURDAY NEXT, 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES
AND
THE BRESCIANS.
TO-NIGHT, CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
NEW SONGS, NEW PICTURES, NEW SOLOS.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan, Paling’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
|_J AY MARKET HIPPODROME, SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock.
BOHEMIAN DRAMATIC COMPANY.
SPECTACULAR DRAMA.
Under the Direction of E. J. COLE,
Headed by Miss VENE LINDEN and Mr. W. H. AYR.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME WEEKLY.
PRICES—6d. and Is.
■MOW TOURING NEW SOUTH WALES,
1 THE FAMOUS -
“ALL BLACKS,”
ALL ONE FAMILY OF EXTRAORDINARY MUSICAL
ABILITY,
who have just concluded a triumphal tour of New
Zealand arm the South Seas.
ALL ARTISTS, ALL TALENTED, ALL CLEVER.
Tivoli theatre, syd.jey.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards,
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
DUNCAN and GODFREY, in their original Coster
Romance, “ME AND ’ER.”
AUGUSTIN and HARTLEY, Barrel Jumpers.
Miss OASSIE WALMER, Contralto Eccentrique and
Dancer, in her Latest Impersonations.
CASSELLI and JAMES, England’s leading Banjoists.
THE MUSICAL IBSENS.
Enormous Success of MR. HARRY BEDFORD.
MAUD FANING, TOM DAWSON, OLIVE LENTON. &c.
p E R A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE GAUMONT CHRONOPHONE, Talking, Singing,
Musical Moving. Picture Machine.
THE ALASKAS, Comedy Acrobatic Artists.
LES OABIACS, French Acrobats.
LARRY LEWIS,. Quaint Comedian.
FLORRIE HENDERSOX and her Performing Dogs and
Monkeys.
HARRY TATE’S Co. in Comedy Sketch, “Fishing.”
Plan at Allan’s. JSiT PRICES—3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
REMEMBER—FOR 6 MORE NIGHTS ONLY.
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Royal Comic Opera Co. in the
Old Favorite Opera,
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
BLANCHE ARRAL
COMMENCING OCTOBER 13th.
pRINCESS THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, OCTORER 20,
MEYNELL, GUNN and VARNA’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY, under the direction of ALLAN
HAMILTON.
First production in Australia of
THE LITTLE STRANGER.
A Farcical Comedy in Three Acts, by Michael Morton.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Sole Direction of ALLAN HAMILTON.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20.
Return to Melbourne, for a Short Farewell Season, of
LESLIE HARRIS,
The BRILLIANT ENGLISH SOCIETY ENTERTAINER,
in an Entirely New Repertoire of Musical Monologues,
Sketches and Stories.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY, 2.30.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
MELBOURNE.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
ANNUAL VISIT of the CHILDREN’S
GREATEST LIVING OBJECT COLLEGE.
EVERYTHING NEW EACH SEASON.
OPENING IN
NEW SNOW-WHiTE TENTS—ALEXANDRA AVENUE.
SATURDAY, OCT. 20.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
Amusements.
New theatre royal, Melbourne,
Lessee ' WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THURSDAY and FRIDAY, Oct. 11 and 12—Last Two
Performances of THE EARL AND THE CIRL.
SATURDAY, OCT. 13,
JOHN F. SHERIDAN,
after 3 years’ absence, in
PUN ON THE BRISTOL.
JOHN F. SHERIDAN as WIDOW O’BRIEN.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
BOSTOCK & WOMRWELL’S
NOVEL CIRCUS & MENAGERIE.
MELBOURNE SEASON at
FITZGERALD’S CIRCUS BUILDING.
Commencing
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20th.
Replete with the most wonderful Specialties and Novel-
ties, including the Marvellous
LUKUSHIMA TROUPE.
The Finest Travelling Menagerie in the World.
THE WHOLE SHOW.
A Revelation in Arenic Enterprise.
Prices—4s, 3s, 2s. and One Shilling. Boxes to hold 4, £l.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS,
AND ALL HOLIDAYS.
ALEC. VERNE, Agent.
Legal Notice.
TO WILLIAM HOPKINS FITZGERALD
who if alive would have the powers of a
tenant for life but who is alleged to be dead.
IRISH LAND COMMISSION.
Estates Commissioners. Record No. E.C.
1440. Estate of EDWARD G. FITZGERALD
County Tipperary. Take Notice that the said
EDWARD G. FITZGERALD claiming as abso-
lute owner is proceeding to sell his Estate at
Coolross in the Barony of Owney and Arra and
County of Tipperary to the Tenants thereof and
other persons in fee-simple reserving thereout to
the Irish Land Commission the exclusive right of
mining and taking minerals and digging and
searching for minerals on or under the said Estate
and that the Land Commission intend without
any further investigation of title within six
months from this date unless the said WILLIAM
HOPKINS FITZGERALD is shown to be alive
or some other valid reason is shown in the mean-
time to the Estates Commissioners at their Office
No. 25 Upper Merrion-street Dublin Ireland why
they should not do so to deal with the said
EDWARD G. FITZGERALD alone as the
owner of the said lands for all purposes other than
the distribution of the Purchase Money or the
payment of any percentage out of the Land Pur-
chase Aid Fund established under the Irish Land
Act 1903.
Signed WILLIAM C. STUBBS Examiner.
By Order of the Estates Commissioners. Dated
this Ist day of August 1906.
Learn to Swim &
BY ONE
TRIAL.
AyvadsJMyngs
Price, 1/6 &|2/6. Creat Sport in the Water.
A person weighing from 50 to 2501 b. can float on them
without an effort. Inquire of anyone who has used
Ayvad’s Water-Wings and be convinced you can learn to
swim the first day you are in the water. For those who
can swim they furnish a source of amusement nothing
can equal. Easily adjusted. Take no more room than a
pocket handkerchief. Sold through all stores, dealers in
sporting goods, outfitters, chemists, &c. Australian
agents, A. Moreau & Co., S2a Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole manufacturers, Ayvad Manuf’g. Co., Hoboken, N.J.
Note—Educational Dept., London County Council, classi-
fied Water-Wings with books, &c., as necessary school
supply.
Legal Notice.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
IN THE SUPREME COURT,
No. 83 of 1906.
IN THE MATTER of the Estate of WILLIAM
JONES late of Port Road Southwark but
formerly of Eagle on the Hill in the State of
South Australia gentleman deceased
and
IN THE MATTER of The Administration and
Probate Act 1801.
WHEREAS WILLIAM JONES above
described by his Will directed The Pub-
lic Trustee of South Australia as his trustee after
the decease of his son and daughter to hand over
all his real and personal estate (sworn for the pur-
poses of Probate and succession duties not to ex-
ceed £12,000) to four trustees appointed by the
Incorporated Body of Freethinkers of South Aus-
tralia for the benefit of that Institution AND
WHEREAS the Public Trustee has taken out a
summons herein for advice and direction of this
Court on the following (among other) matters
namely
1. Is there an Institution in South Australia now
in existence and entitled “The South Australian
Freethought Society Incorporated ” NOW THIS
IS TO GIVE NOTICE that pursuant to the
order of His Honor Mr. Justice Gordon made on
the 16th August 1906 during the trial of the
questions of fact arising in this matter ALL
PERSONS CLAIMING to be either life mem-
bers or honorary members and all persons claim-
ing to have any claim or interest in the property
and assets of and any person or persons claiming
to hold office in the South Australian Freethought
Society Incorporated are requested to send their
names and addresses together with a short state-
ment of the nature of their claim to the Public
Trustee of South Australia or to his Solicitor
Reginald George Nesbit of Santo Buildings Way-
mouth Street Adelaide on or before the 15th day
of December 1906.
R. G. NESBIT,
Solicitor for Public Trustee.
LONGFELLOW SAID :
“ We lead but one life here on earth;
We must make that beautiful,
And to do this, health and elasticity of mind are needful.
And whatever endangers or impedes these must be avoided.”
Just a plain bit of good
old-fashioned common sense*
Now apply common sense
to your 44 health of body and mind.”
It's largely a question of
Food
When 44 run down ” or ailing in any way you may be sure the life forces are
not taking tip, from your present food, the things required to keep Body and Brain
well. It is very sure you will discover help when the food is changed properly. The
reason for advocating GRAPE-NUTS is that this food contains the natural Phosphate
of Potash obtained from Wheat and Barley from which Nature makes (in combina-
tion with Albumen of the food) the gray filling of Brain and Nerve centres.
Build Brain and Nerves up strong and vigorous and you have achieved the
power to 44 make this life beautiful/'
There’s a Reason.
lO days trial of
Gr ape-N uts
will prove.
Get the little book, “ The Road to Wellville,” in pkgs.
A DR.’S FOOD
Found st Food That Lifted Him
Out of Trouble.
The food experience of a doctor experimenting
with himself is worth knowing. He says :
“I had acid dyspepsia since I have any know-
ledge, from eight years old, I know.
“It worked down from stomach to intestines
locating at the umbilicus in enteritis until six
years ago the agony every few days was something
terrible. I have walked the floor for hours unable
to eat, or digest if I should eat.
“ Medicine would not relieve me at all. Hour
years ago I began the use of Grape-Nuts and
since the first dish I have not had an attack of the
old trouble. I take four tablespoonfuls once a day
with my supper which is composed only of whole
wheat bread and the Grape-Nuts.
“ The wonderful part of my case is that I have
never had an attack or even any of the dreadful
symptoms since the very first meal of Grape-
Nuts. Most of my patients know how suddenly
and promptly Grape-Nuts cured me and I have
prescribed the food with good results in many
cases.” Name given by Postum Co., Battle
Creek, Mich.
Grape-Nuts is regularly prescribed in place of
medicine by many physicians for stomach or
intestinal trouble, lack of nourishment, brain-fag
and nervous prostration. The result usually
shows immediate improvement and a speedy com-
plete cure.
Ten days’ trial of Grape-Nuts in place of starchy
foods works wonders.
“ There’s a reason.”
Look in pkgs. for the famous little book, “ The
Road to Wellville.”
Phonograph Song Book.
PHONO
SONC
BOOK
ONE SHILLING
THIS
IS
abso-
lutely
the
Best
BooK
ever
issued.
1C contains the complete words of over 70 of the
very latest and most popular songs sung into the
phonograph by leading artists. This is the book
which gives all Harry Lauder’s famed humorous
specialities; new and popular ballads by Irving
Gillette; the wonderful coon successes of Arthur
Collins; also the favourite items of Miss Marie
Narelle, Byron G. Harlan, Harry McDonough, and a
host of others. A giant collection of coon songs,
march songs, comic songs, pathetic, &c., &c. This
is the biggest value that has ever been offered to you.
We will forward it, post free, upon receipt of fourteen
penny stamps. Don’t forget the name “ The Phono-
graph Song Book.” Send for it at once.
ALDAN & CO.
276-278 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Fred Russell
On Ventriloquism.
WITH the aid of FRED RUSSELL’S GUIDE TO
VENTRILOQUISM, you can learn how to throw
your voice where you like.lt is a practical guide
by a practical man. It gives clear and reliable
directions how to mimic various instruments, dogs,
birds, hens, ducks, etc., how to throw the voice to a
distance, how to control the muscles of the face,,how
to work the ventriloquial figures. It explains how
you can imitate a chop frying, sawing wood, opening
a sodawater bottle, etc. It is full of funny experi-
ences, smart gags, witty sayings, dialogues, etc.
It also contains Mr. Russell’s best ventriloquial
sketches.
Send to-day for this book “Fred Russell on
Ventriloquism.”
Price Is. y posted Is. 2d.
ALLAN & CO.,
276-278 Collins St., Melbourne.
iltiidl
LS.L-LM
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building',
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Asenciks :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia —
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
TOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
X
gsdf
&
V
*
Jy
9 Av
S'
<o
5V
$S
S?
N>
4F
/
The,
AICOCK,
Table
is the
MONARCH
• • oe •
Billiard
Tables.
/ /
gsd
B
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozcrine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy' has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 11/-
Thoasands of Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc.
Wholesale Agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemisv
26 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH,
Price, 6d.; Posted, Bdj


ABOUT...
Edison
Records
At
| -
« *
DS
. r'
H©
SSSfeSp ll ?
SKm- to
« >: "• f
By inventing the Edison Gold-Moulded Record, Thomas A. Edison accomplished—
First. Elimination of all scratching and other
mechanical noises.
Second. The recording of delicate tones and high
notes.
THird. The securing of the ricH quality of the
original sound.
And by inventing the Model 0 reproducer, found only on Edison Phonographs, he provided the only
means to reproduce those delicate tones and the complete rendering of the full richness of
quality of band orchestra, and both the richness and volume of the human voice.
TAKE ONLY EDISON RECORDS.
They represent all the best English, American and Continental Talent.
SOLD BY ALL TALKING MACHINE DEALERS.
Write for List of Records and Catalogs of Edison Phonographs.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Better than an Electric Belt.
IS
m
HERE’S a Medical Battery that is
better and more effective than
the best electric belt ever
made. It will cure Rheumatism,
Nervous Disoi tiers and Diseases,
Sciatica. It will give new life to
the feeble—it will strengthen your
nerves and make a better and differ-
ent man or woman of you. Stronger,
more effective, and will do more
lasting good than the best electric
belt in the world. Endorsed by
medical men all over the world.
PRICE, POST FREE,
355.
Money back if it is not satisfactory
BOOKLET FREE.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
“ My
Opticians/’
■mu
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS ,*
393 GEORGE ST.,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
CIGAR Enjoyment.
KING OF ALL K AND B HIGH LIFE CIGARS are good
all the way through from one end to the other. Fine aroma
—not usually experienced in a cigar at this price. You’ll be
sorry to throw away the butt!
King of All K & B High Life Cigars
17/6 per 100 add 9d. for postage. FULL, MEDIUM OR MILD.
SAMPLE BOX OF 4 POST FREE 1/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Vj
HARVESTER
TERMS
EXTRAORDINARY
(216)
We desire to draw the attention
of harvester buyers to the follow-
ing SOLID FACTS
Fact No. I—Our Harvesters made during the
harvest of 1905 the best “sample” ever
made by a harvester —made it in all kinds
of crops, and under a great variety of
conditions.
Fact No. 2—Our Harvesters have made for
themselves a general reputation of being
the only machines of the kind that are so
light in draught as to enable three medium horses to handle them throughout the season.
Fact No. 3—Our Harvesters did so well last season that we had to refuse hundreds of orders,
and were the ONLY concern in the business whose orders thus exceeded their supply,
thereby indicating in the most practical manner the almost universal satisfaction given
by our machines in the field.
Fact No. 4 —We are the people who, on Oct. 7th, 1905, reduced the price of harvesters an average
of £.12:10:0, and saved the farmers about £50,000 on their purchases for that year, and
as much this year.
Fact No. 5 We are the ONLY people in the harvester trade who, when the price was reduced,
gave the reduced prices to those who bought before the reduction, thus treating alike all
purchasers of that season.
Fact No. 6 —Just as we led in price reduction, so we now lead in offering terms that enable the
struggling farmer, who is Just going on the land with a small capital, to harvest his own crop
instead of paying someone a profit to do it for him, and to this end we make the following
EXTRAORDINARY OFFER —to furnish our “Deering” or “McCormick”
Harvesters of 1906 manufacture now just landing on —
5 Annual Payments of £lO each
the said payments to fall due on the 15th day of February of each 1907, 1908, 1909,
1910 and 1911.
Think what this means ! If you harvest 100 acres per year the machine will earn the payment
due for the year before you have to pay it.
You need never have any money invested in it because the terms are so easy that the machines
can always be made to produce the amount of each payment before it becomes due.
When the machine has earned its 5 payments it will, with decent treatment, be good enough
for 5 to lO years further work—and need have cost you nothing.
All machines ordered on these special terms will, after the harvest of 1906-7, be thoroughly
overhauled and put in good order free of ALL expense to the user except for extraordinary
wear or breakage caused by misuse.
S*®“ Don’t wait THIS YEAR until they are all gone.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
(Incorporated)
Q. L. Throssell & Co., Northam, Agents for W.A.
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA
The Tory party passed many foolish laws
in Bananaland while it Ministered Continuously
for a longer period of years than the general pub-
lic likes to admit. One of its insane statutes pro-
hibits the shooting of rabbits for profit, though
the south-west part of the State is cursed with
millions of the pest; another is that the men who
work for a baker are responsible for light-weight
bread ; another, that goats can be shot if found
off the owner’s property. Considering that the
billvgoat is often a draught animal or a beast of
burden, and must go out to work, this is a
wonderful idea. And there are other loony
statutes.
How the possessive is emphasised in legal
documents running in the name of royalty ! This
is the formal attestation of an ordinary Crown
grant in N.S.W. :
Witness, Our Trusty and Well-beloved Sir Harrv Holds-
vvorth Rawsou> Admiral in (}ur Roval Navv / Knight
Commander of Our Most Honorable Order of'the Bath,
. ... _ .. ... , ~ ’
Governor of Our State of New South Males and its
dependencies in the Commonwealth of Australia at
Sydney ' n Our said State, this day— in the
' eai of ® ur Rei ” n > anc * in the Year of Our Lord, One
Thousand Nine Hundred and .
That last “our” is “the limit.”


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four AVeeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. ... £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON', LTD.. Creek-street.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund .. 1,250,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors.. 1,600,000
£4,450,000
London Office : 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
AMES HELLICAR,
Superintendent.
Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,245 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 51,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTOIN.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
gank of 0 eu| Z ea,and -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
CRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bank of |{orth Queensland
(Established 1883.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £.700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Cien Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up ... <£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund .£165,000.
Hoad Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlib,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburnk.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
"PRINZ SICISMUND, 3300 tons.. 27th OCTOBER.
SANDAKAN, 1800 tons .. .. 24th NOVEMBER.
♦Twin Screw Steamers.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For farther particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO,. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITKJ),
Capitai* Paid-up .. .. .. .. £457,613 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,737 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 67,000 0 0
£700,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE,
Gen. Manager, ICdwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr., W. B. Alford
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, QUEEN VICTORIA ST., LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
Loudon,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
FARES:
Saloon.
3rd Class.
London
Cape or Durban
From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
fg
PLYMOUTH and LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 30th OCTOBER,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and
PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban
London
New York, &c.
£l4 14 0 to £23 2 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, ami all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
/V TVTT C~? s.s. 00.— A.. & A.- LIWB (via SAN FRANCISCO).
THREE-WEEKLY FAST MAIL SERVICE run in conjunction with the Most Luxuriously Equipped Trains
and Steamships in the World.
SHORTEST LINE FASTEST TIME TO
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, GREAT BRITAIN AND EUROPE.
R.M.S SIERRA, 6200 Tons, Sails from Sydney MONDAY, OCTOBER 15, at I p.m.
Some people think that “HOMEWARD THROUGH AMERICA” is an expensive way.
Enquire for fares etc., etc., and learn facts before booking- elsewhere.
BURNS, PHILP and CO., Ltd., Hanaging Agents,
GORNER PITT AND BRIDGE STREETS, SYDNEY.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
sdf
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a Visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, Ac.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security. —■
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
5'
&
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
3ST.S.A7V.
(DontdepieteO.#!. C°-> C td >
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures,
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £22,500 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene, M.P.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
GeneralManager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
NEXT SAILINGS—
Oct. 29, Nov. 26, Dec. 24.
CHEAP
ROUND-THE - WORLD
RATES,
First and Second Ctass.
PASSENGERS BOOKED BY ANY
ROUTE TO ENGLAND, RETURNING
via CANADA, or vice versa.
Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. 1S&
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streeb, Sydney.
WM. STITT, General Passenger Agent.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
gsd
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT . . .
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. We issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL —£1,900,000. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral!an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
S.S. Gran tala (from
Sydney), Oct. 17
S.S. Yongala (from
Sydney), Oct. 31
BRISBANE, I
MACKAY, |
TOWNSVILLE, j
And Ports North to Cairns. I
S.S. Marloo, Oct. 13.
-S.S. Wollowra, October 20.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 27.
Jiest and Cheapest It ante to 11 ohlfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: —
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingandpassing theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
R. BRASIIiR DE THUY, Principal Agent.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Wi find every omtor and convenience at —•
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
Sl'. KILDA.
r |'HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
"*■ the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beach.
Charges much lower thanlicensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Unrivalled Position in
LONDON
the (England),
LANGHAM
HOTEL
Portland Place & Regent St., W.
Family Hotel of the Highest Class.
Situated in the Most Fashionable, Con-
venient and Healthy Locality,
Hodern Appointments. floderate Tariff.
Visitors to Melbourne
Neale’s Temperance Hotel
(Tankards)
LONSDALE STREET (Next Law Courts;
is the handiest place to stay at. Being close to Railway
Stations, Theatres and Wharves ; and three minutes’ walk
from G.P.O. Bedrooms on Ground Floor if desired.
Board and Residence, 4s. 6d. per day; or from £1 per
week. Telephone 1640.
HA/tfy
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Miss Witts, IT Union Club,
CHARLOTTE STREET,
Premier Boarding- Establishment; heart of city ;
lawn, large garden, cool rooms, good cuisine.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10U3.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OP TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO PILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION.
Consign to —JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.,
276 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.


Chronic Consumption and Catarrh Cured.
Arnold’s-briUge, Victoria, 30th August, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner,
. 14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear it is a number of years ago since you
cured me of Chronic Consumption of the Lungs and
Chronic Catarrh of the Nose, I think it is only right that
a statement of the facts should be made public. Briefly,
the facts are these :—I had Chronic Catarrh of the Nose
for many years before consumption set in. The Catarrh
used to give me a great deal of trouble, and about eight
years ago I got a bad chill through goinginto a river to bathe
whilst over-heated. This brought on a bad cough, also
bleeding. I lost great quantities of blood, and had an inces-
sant cough, which used to keep me awake at night. The
consequence was I became exceedingly weak, and in a
short time I lost 1 about one stone and a half in
weight. I used to have copious night sweats, and used to
cough quantities of matter. My stomach became so weak
that the least thing would cause me to vomit my food. I
consulted a legally-qualified medical man, and he ex-
amined me thoroughly, and pronounced me to be an in-
curable consumptive, and told me that I could not live
three months, as one of my lungs was gone, and the other
badly affected. He also said that there was not the least
hope of recovery. I then went to Melbourne to consult
you about my case. After having made an examination,
you told me that my left lung was badly affected, and
that consumption had progressed rather far : but that
you would undertake to cure me if your instructions were
carried out carefully, so I began to take your herbal
treatment. After I had been under your treatment about
six weeks all bleeding ceased, thecough greatly diminished,
sleep returned, expectorations became, lighter in color,
and not so mattery-looking, and my appetite, which had
previously almost left me, returned, and 1 could eat well.
In consequence, my weight soon increased, and the burn-
ing feeling in the back of my lung left me. By degrees in
this way I gradually got better from day to day, and by
closely following your instructions and treatment I gained
over two stone in weight, and finally became completely
cured. Ever since I have had the best of health. I will
add that, during the past two years, I have done a lot of
foot-running in different parts of Australia ; • in fact,
I have been placed third one year and fourth another
year in the Stawell Gift, at Stawell, against 100 competi-
tors. As this race is considered the best in Australia, it
proves the cure of my lung troubles must be real and
thorough, otherwise I would not have been able to put up
the running records which I did. I cannot be too grate-
ful and thankful for the remarkable cure you effected,
and I am quite willing to answer any inquiries about my
case. —Yours very trulv,
(Signed) HERBERT ARCHIE M'KEAN.
Sworn before me at Arnold’s Bridge, in the State of
Victoria —(Signed) RICHARD GRAHAM (Commissioner
for Taking Affidavits), 7/9/’06.
Chronic Catarrh and Asthma cured at
Iiillydale.
Lillydale, Victoria, 24th August, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —About eighteen years ago I was very bad
with a tightness and choking feeling in my head and
chest. I also had a catching feeling in the throat, and
some pough. I consulted a local doctor, who examined
me thoroughly, and told me that my lungs were weak,
and he prescribed for me. I took his medicine, and
carried out his directions, but got no better. I then
tried a number of patent medicines for a considerable
time, with the one result that I got no improvement,
and kept steadily getting weaker. I found the wheezing
in the chest and the cough were gradually getting worse.
I then went to Melbourne, and consulted one of the
leading doctors there. He examined me thoroughly, and
said my heart was weak, and that my lungs were also
weak. By this time I had a considerable amount of
wheezinsr. This doctor prescribed medicines for me, and
I took them Carefully, as instructed, but they did me no
good whatever. I went again to Melbourne, and tried
another doctor, who also examined me, and his decision
was that I was in a very w'eak state. I knew this from
the way I felt; in fact, I was rapidly going into Con-
sumption. I took this doctor’s medicines, with the like
result of no improvement. The difficulty in breathing
and the slight cough continued, and the great weakness
which I experienced, in spite of the good appetite,
became worse. During six months from the day I
consulted the first doctor I was scarcely able to do a
day’s work. I found that I could scarcely breathe
through the nose, and could only keep breathing with my
mouth open. I was at my wits’ end to know what to do
for a recovery, when I happened to hear about you and
your treatment for Chronic Catarrh, Asthma and Lung
Troubles, and I decided to consult you on one of your
visits. I was very pleased to find from the examination
you made of my ease that you knew exactly what I was
suffering from, and, whereas all the other doctors which
I consulted merely examined my lungs and chest, you
said that my trouble was located in the nose and throat,
and that I was suffering from a very bad form of Chronic
Catarrh, combined with Asthma. The difficulty of
breathing arose principally from the obstructions in the
nasal cavities, and the discharges at night time ran down
into the lungs, and so caused weakness in these organs.
As soon as you explained it to me, I understood thoroughly
all about it, and I began your treatment for a complete
cure, as suggested by yourself, and I am please to say I
got immediate relief, as your treatment got at the root
cause of the disease, and removed all the obstructions
that caused my whole trouble, and by sticking to your
treatment completely eradicated the complaint out of
my system, and so cured me of the Catarrh and Asthma
in a thoroughly permanent manner, and built up my
constitution, so that I have ever since been free of my
trouble. It is now sixteen years since I was perfectly
cured of that distressing complaint, for which I will
remain for ever fateful. -Yours very -cerely.^^
Sworn at Lillydale this 29th day of August, 1906, before
me. —DAVID KING, J.P.
Chronic Catarrh and Consumption
Cured.
Port-road, Caversham, near Adelaide, S.A.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner,
14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Sir,—About thirteen years ago I began to suffer
from Asthma and Bronchitis, also Nasal Catarrh. I
suffered from the above for some time, Consumption
eventually setting in—after about twelve months. During
the time I had been attended to by three of the best
Adelaide doctors. The whole of the treatment they gave
me only resulted in giving me temporary relief, but did
not do anything towards curing me. My cough was
extremely bad, and the difficulty from which I suffered
in breathing was most distressing. Some nights I used
to cough incessantly, and could not get any rest. I used
to cough up large quantities of phlegm and matter, and
had a great amount of wheezing on my chest. The last
doctor that I went to in Adelaide told me that there was
absolutely no cure for me, and to prepare for a better
world. This he said after treating me for three months,
during which time he had examined me at intervals.
At this time I saw one of your advertisements in
the Adelaide papers, stating the date on which you
would be consulting there, and I was determined
that I would see you and find out if there was any
possible hope of being cured, and I must say that
I was considerably surprised at the way in which
you told me exactly from what I suffered—that you were
quite certain that you could cure me —you s <id that you
were so satisfied that you could- effect a cure, that you
were prepared to do it for a lump sum down, which my
husband paid you ; and to this day we both consider that
it was the cheapest money we ever paid in our lives.
The way in which your treatment, cleaned the phlegm
and matter off iny lungs, and freed'the breathing passages
from all obstructions, u'as something wonderful; and
although I : ad nearly wasted to a shadow whilst under
the treatment of other doctors, under your treatment I
soon began to regain my health and strength and to put
on weight. As a result of your treatment I was com-
pletely cured, and my lungs have been quite well ever
since. The Nasal Catarrh from which I suffered has
entirely disappeared, and I consider tha as it is now nearly
thirteen years since my cure was completed, it is only
right that this statement should be published for general
information. I shall be pleased to reply to any inquiries
with reference to my case, and wish you every success.
—Yours faithfully,
(Signed) M. A. SHIPTON.
Sworn before me, at York, this 13th day of September,
1906.— WATSON JEANES, J.P.
“ Incurable ” Consumption Cured.
Broughton Village, New South Wales,
15th August, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann,
Consulting Herbal Practitioner,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sir,—lt is with great pleasure I send you this
testimonial of my cure. For many years I suffered with
that dreadful complaint, Consumption. When about
seven years old, I contracted a very severe cold on my
lungs, which left a terrible cough on me. Often, for
weeks, I have had to sleep pillowed upright in bed, as I
could not obtain any sleep through coughing when lying
down. I tried many remedies, which did me littie or no
good. As years went by, I all the time kept getting
worse. I used to perspire frequently in my sleep ; life
was beginniiig to be a burden to me, as I could hardly
get my breath in hot or foggy weather. When I first
went to visit you in Kiama I was so weak I could hardly
walk upstairs to your consulting room. As soon as you
saw me you told me that I was suffering with Chronic
Consumption of the Kings, and that you could cure me if
I carried out your directions. After taking your medicine
for some time, I began to feel a little better, and I can
now testify that I am completely cured. I may safely
assume it to be a permanent cure, as I have not taken
any of your medicine for over four years. I have not any
pain in my chest now, and I keep perfectly well. Many
thanks to you for your skilful treatment. Trusting others
may benefit by it who suffer as I have suffered. —I am,
dear sir, yours very gratefully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) S. A. KNIGHT.
Witness—(Signed) A. Jolley, J.P.
Thirty Years’ “Incurable” Asthma
Cured.
Thirteen Doctors Failed.
Thirty years I suffered from Asthma of the very worst
form. 1 resided in Sydney when it first came on. Doctors
failed to do me any good whatever. I then went to an
inland climate —viz., to Orange, N.S.W., a most healthy
climate. I continued to get worse and worse. Six
doctors treated me at Orange ; two of them at one time
gave me only ten minutes to live. The Rev. John Clifton
ministered to me in what everyone supposed were my
last moments. In all, 13 doctors treated me without
success. After suffering more than mortal man can tell
for over 30 years, I tried your treatment last year.
Result, a marvellous and wonderful and complete cure;
and I feel now thirty years a younger man. I can give
the names of all the doctors if required.
(Signed) FRANK FRIPP, Storekeeper.
Bellevue-parade, Hurstville, N.S.W., October 24, 1902.
Verification. —I have known Mr. Frank Fripp for over
30 years, and well remember how ill he was at Orange,
and can vouch for the truthfulness of his statement. I
recollect his having one attack lasting 21 weeks inces-
santly, and I went for a second doctor to hold a consul-
tation. I, as a commercial traveller, call on Mr. Fripp
every two weeks. He appears to have now the best of
health ; not any signs of Asthma about him.
(Signed) JOHN A. WOODWARD.
Sworn before me, at Kogarah, this 24th day of October,
1902.
Five Years’ Asthma in Brisbane Cured
After Doctors Failed.
Doctors told me I suffered from Incurable Asthma. I
suffered from the disease for five long years, in the most
distressing manner, especially during the last three years,
gradually getting worse. I tried the treatment of
doctors, and got medicine from chemists, but all con-
sidered my case as hopeless, and I suppose I must have
tried pretty well every remedy that was ever invented
for Asthma, but all to no purpose. When, however,
I found that Mr. Kugelmann had cured my husband of
Chronic Deafness, I resolved to consult him at Brisbane,
and as a result of his treatment and instructions, I soon
got completely cured, and have remained well ever since.
(Signed) (Mrs.) E. SHANAHAN,
Kennedy Terrace, Red Hill, Brisbane, 6th November, 1901.
Sworn at Brisbane, this 6th day of November, 1901,
before me,
(Signed) W. J. TROUTON, J.P.
Twenty Years’ Asthma and Heart
Disease Cured. Aged 74.
Doctors Failed.
I had chronic asthma for 20 years, severe coughing, the
phlegm almost choking me at times; also, I was dan-
gerously ill, apart from the asthma, suffering from a
complication of disorders. I could scarcely breathe at
times, and was as one dead. My heart was badly affected,
and also my liver and stomach, eventually ending in
dropsy of the feet and legs. During the many years of
my illness I tried a number of the best doctors, both in
Melbourne and Sydney. They did me no good whatever.
I also tried all kinds of patent medicines, without result.
I had at last become so bad that I felt my end had come ;
my friends were telegraphed for, and another doctor
summoned. I, however, had had enough of doctors, and
tried Mr. Kugelmann instead, and his treatment had a
most marvellous effect on me. I at once began to feel
better. The Asthma disappeared, appetite returned, and
I could once more sleep like a child. Formerly I could
not walk a step without panting. New I can run up
and down stairs like I could when a young girl. My
(Si.ned) (Mrs.) S. DALTON.
Witness—(Signed) L. Frater.
Sworn at Sans Souci, this 4th day of MarcK, 1899, before
me—P. HENMAN, J.P.
Mrs. Dalton’s present address is c/o 28 Parkman-street,
Moore Park, Sydney.
Seven Years’ Asthma and Bright’s
Disease Cured after Eight Doctors
Failed.
I suffered from Asthma and Bright’s Disease of the
Kidneys for over seven years. It began with Bronchitis.
A doctor at Redfern treated me. I got no better.
Another doctor I consulted, on testing my water, found
that I had Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys as well, and
treated me for a length of time without any benefit. I
tried two other doctors then, and, on their advice, went
to the mountains for change of climate. I became
gradually worse, and came down to the hospital in Syd-
ney, and four doctors examined me, and treated me,
without any good at all resulting. I had now become a
perfect invalid and asthmatic, often had to gasp for
breath, and thought my end had come. The doctors at
the hospital now discharged me as incurable. I once
more tried change of air and climate, and went to Cam-
den, then to Temora and Cootamundra, inland climates.
Getting no better, I went to Goulburn. One doctor I
went to at Emnore said my kidneys were diseased, also
the tops of both lungs. I had finally given up all hope,
when I heard of Mr. Kugelmann’s wonderful success. I
consulted him at Goulburn, and began his treatment.
Result—perfectly cured of the asthma, Bright’s Disease
and other ailments. No return after three years.
(Signed) (Mrs.) MARY WINDSOR.
13 Bucknell-street, Newtown, Sy’dney, Bth July, 1901.
Sworn at Sydney this Bth July,' 1901, before me.
(Signed) J. WHEELER, J.P.
Facial Paralysis cured in 14 days
21 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt, New South Wales.
151 h September, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner,
14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne.
Dear Sir,—lt is with the most sincere gratitude I pen
these few lines to let you know of my complete recovery
from facial paralysis, after a fortnight’s treatment. All
my friends are unanimous in what they call a miraculous
cure. Again thanking you.—l am, dear sir, gratefully
yours,
(Signed) GEO. W. PARDONNE.
Case of Paralysis cured.
Nelson Hill, Ringwood, Victoria,
16th January, 1893.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Physician.
Dear Sir, —I, Mrs. James Maggs, of Ringwood, do
hereby make the following statement on oath, that
eighteen months ago my son, David Maggs, had a
paralytic fit, which alarmed me greatly. I had the
doctor to him, and carried out his treatment as pre-
scribed, but he continued getting worse, gradually losing
the use of his limbs, until he became perfectly helpless.
In this state I brought him to you to get your advice ;
you stated that you could effect a cure. We began your
treatment at once, and I am thankful to say he gradually
recovered the use of his limbs. It is now about. 12
months since he was cured and recovered the use of his
limbs ; therefore, I am sure he is perfectly cured. You
are at liberty to publish this statement.—Yours truly,
Mrs. JAS. MAGGS.
Sw’orn before me at Ringw'ood this 16th day of January,
1 fiQQ
T. GRANT, J.P.
Read How Mr. Kugelmann cures
“Incurable” Hip Disease.
Chatsworth, Gympie, Queensland, 19th March, 1906.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —I would like to add my testimonial to your
numerous and wonderful cures of chronic cases. About
four and a half years ago my little daughter, Catherine,
aged four years, began to walk lame on her right leg. I
immediately took her to a doctor at Gympie, w'bo informed
me that it was only the result of growing pains, so I took
her home. About a month later she became worse, so I
took her to another doctor at Gympie, and he said it was
a case of hip disease, and that it was quite incurable. I
then put her in Gympie Hospital, and the doctors there
pronounced it to be a case of hip disease, and decided to
operate on her leg, which they did, making no less than
six cuts on the affected leg, thereby disfiguring the child
for life. There were no marks on the child before the opera-
tion, and no swelling, but afterwards she had sores which
discharged running matter, and complained of great pains
in her affected limb. She remained in the hospital for about
two years, during which time she became worse, until she
was nothing more than skin and bone. I U'as then told at
the Hospital that her case was incurable, and was advised
to send her to Brisbane to the home for incurables, which
I refused to do. Owing to the Hospital people insisting
on my removing the child, I took her home and was more
than shocked to see how her leg was cut about, and the
nasty wounds on it. I did the best I could for her for a
month or six weeks, w'hen, hearing of Mr. H. E. Kugei-
mann’s visit to Gympie, and the wonderful cures he had
effected, I decided to try the cure, and my daughter
commenced with his treatment in August, 1904. He
examined the child, and said at once that her case was
one of hip disease, and that he could effect a cure. When
the child began the treatment with Mr. H. E. Kugelmann
she was wearing a Hospital splint, and could hardly
hobble about on it with crutches, and after six weeks’
treatment she began to walk without her crutches and
splint, and gradually became stronger, and her general
health also greatly improved, and at the end of sixteen
months she was completely cured, and has remained well
ever since, and at present is walking a mile to school and
back every day, and never complains or says she is tired.
(Signed) (Mrs.) A. M. CISLOWSKI.
Sworn this nineteenth day of March, one thousand nine
hundred and six, before me,
(Signed) JAMES FRASER, J.P.
A Born Cripple Cured.
Plant-street, Malvern, Victoria,
2nd May, 1894.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN,
Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir.—l, Frederick Sipthorpe, of Malvern, do hereby
make oath and say, briefly, that about four years ago I
consulted you in reference to one of my children, an
infant, which was born a cripple—one of its feet was
quite turned around to the inside, and the other leg was
so drawn up at the knee that no pressure could straighten
it out. It was several inches shorter than the other leg.
The doctor that I had attending it said that the only
thing to do would be to operate upon it, and to cut the
sinews, that being the legally qualified way of doing it,
and he said it was the only thing that could be done. J,
however, would not have this done, but, knowing what
good you had done in my own case after the doctors had
failed to benefit me, I consulted you in reference to the
child, and had your remedies used at once. RESULT
During the first week the foot came around two inches,
and within nine weeks it was completely cured, and the
short leg made as long as the other one —and that without
any cutting or operating. The child has ever since re-
mained quite well, and has thrived wonderfully. I,
therefore, make this declaration to benefit any other
sufferer.
I remain, yours gratefully,
FREDERICK SIPTHORPE.
Witnesses—Thos. Robinson, Shire Councillor, Elizabeth-
street, Malvern; John Moran, merchant, High-street,
Malvern ; John J. Duelfer, Malvern-road, Malvern.
Sworn before me at Malvern, this 11th day of May, 1894.
—E. S. EDSALL, J.P. for the Central Bailiwick.
Internal Ulceration Cured.
Stirling East, South Australia, 10th April, 1905.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —About 14 years ago I began to lose my
health. I felt too weak and ill to e» a'vrout my household
duties. I consulted a doctor at Adelaide, who stated that
I was suffering from weakness and general debility ; also
that my lungs were in a very weak state, and that I w r as
liable to go off into consumption. This doctor prescribed
for me, and I took the medicine faithfully, but I was just
the same—no better. I was under this doctor for six
months, but his treatment did not do me any' good ; in-
stead, I was gradually getting weaker and weaker. I
then tried a doctor at Stirling West, whose treatment I
carried out for two years. This doctor treated me for
Inflammation of the Lungs and Debility; unfor-
tunately, however, I kept on getting worse and
worse, although I was treated by four doctors
during six years. One doctor nearly killed me with
morphia pills, which he prescribed for violent pains
"Will Germany Take Australia?
before has any nation owned a
I whole continent. Australians are the
first and only people to have this vast
advantage. The pity is that we do
not appreciate, or comprehend, the greatness
of our heritage, and the immense possibilities
of Australia’s future. Australia has practi-
cally no land defence, and as for naval
defence—well, we are abjectly helpless.
True, Australia pays £200,000 per annum
for the hire of a third-rate fleet, which con-
sists of boats of so useless a type that no
great Power would give them a moment’s
consideration as a force to be seriously
reckoned with. This is a truly deplorable
state of affairs. An enormously wealthy
country like Australia, with a coast line of
over 9000 miles to defend, containing, as it
does, everything necessary for the existence
and comfort of a highly-civilised nation, is
sure to arouse the cupidity of European and
Asiatic over-populated countries, who must,
and will, find an outlet for their surplus
millions. That, in the near future, either
Germany or Japan will make the attempt to
take Australia is beyond all doubt. We
must arouse ourselves, and put aside the
despicable and cowardly idea of looking to
England for our defence. God helps those
who help themselves. We in Australia
should not only be able to easily defend
ourselves, but should be in a position to
render naval assistance to the Mother Coun-
try. A splendid example of a defence
scheme has just been made by a certain
patriotic Australian who is a large em-
ployer of labor. This gentleman is mak-
ing it an imperative condition that
everyone in his employ join a local
defence force. If the Federal and State
Governments were to follow this course, and
compel every civil servant to become a mem-
ber of some corps, by a single stroke of the
pen Australia would have a real army, at
practically no cost. This, combined with
Australia’s urgent necessity to at ODce estab-
lish ammunition factories and dockyards
ample to build the largest battleships, would
make Australia practically impregnable.
Australia must wake-up! The foreign traitor
is already within our gates, and, under the
guise of Freetrade, is doing all he can to aid
the foreigner to obtain a grip upon Australia.
A day may come when Australian rifles will
have to deal with the Australian traitor who,
ivith his Freetrade box of tricks, is in close
illiance with Australia’s enemies. The most
necessary factor in any scheme of defence is
men—strong, healthy men, free from disease
md every physical defect. It is, unfor-
tunately, a fact that it is now next to
impossible to find anyone quite healthy—
quite sound—and quite free from disease.
In Australia’s coming struggle for National
existence, the enormous army of chronic
sufferers from asthma, catarrh, hydatids, con-
sumption, tumor, epileptic fits, &c., &c., will
be a serious drawback to the ability of Aus-
tralia to defend itself. As recent statistics
published in Australia show, we have at
present a greater army of 44 supposed to be
incurable chronics” than of real defenders in
a military or naval sense. This ought not to
be, and, what is more to the point, it can be
vitally remedied by returning to Nature’s
own method of cure ; in other words, 4 4 back
to Nature.”
The only natural, rational and permanent
method of effecting an absolute cure of all
those who are affected by any form of Chronic
Disease is the System of Treatment practised
by H. E. Kugelmann. His Cures are Per-
manent, because they not only dissolve and
remove the local growth, or local trouble,
but radically remove the constitutional taint
—the true seat of the disease, thus ensuring
a Permanent Cure.
On this account most especial attention is
directed to the fact that there are innumer-
able cases of deeply-seated, obscure, intract-
able, and supposed-to-be incurable diseases,
which baffle the whole medical world, and
yet such cases are now being readily cured in
a permanent manner by the new and right-
ahead-of-date methods of Mr. H. E. Kugel-
mann, the famous consulting herbal prac-
titioner and gifted diagnostician, of 14-16
Queen-street, Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide
and Brisbane. A confidential consultation
with him will convince any sufferer that he
completely understands the deeply-seated
causes of disease, and, what is still of more
importance, he knows how to cure it. As
Mr. Kugelmann will be visiting for consul-
tation, the cities and towns, as per schedule,
all chronic sufferers ought to avail themselves
of the opportunity to obtain his exception-
ally skilful advice and treatment. He
possesses the gift of intuitive diagnosis, and
can tell patients what is the cause of their
disease, without being informed in any way
by them, and will give a straight out opinion
as to whether the case is curable or not. If
preferred, a legal agreement is entered into
for a complete cure for a lump sum in each
instance. ALL CONSULTATIONS ARE
CHARGED A FEE OF 10s., and after
obtaining his diagnosis patients can have
treatment or not as they please. If Mr.
Kugelmann considers the case incurable the
fee charged will be returned. IF UNABLE
TO CONSULT HIM PERSONALLY,
WRITE FULL DESCRIPTION OF YOUR
CASE, AND ENCLOSE POSTAL NOTE
OR STAMPS FOR 10s. FEE, and address
it to him at his Head Offices, 14-16 Queen-
street, Melbourne, on receipt of which
diagnosis will be sent at earliest possible
moment. Unless fee is enclosed, no diag-
nosis will be sent in reply.
If is safe to say that there is not a single
city, town, or hamlet in all Austr lasia in
which is not to be found some erstwhile
hopeless sufferer whom he has cured. It is
high time that the entire community clearly
understood that the present craze for opera-
tions for almost any internal and external
ailment is unnecessary, for by Mr. Kugel-
maun’s system all internal displacements,
whether of the Kidney or of any other organs,
can be completely cured without operations,
and that all Tumours, Cysts, Polypi, and
other growths, internal and external, can by
this method be dissolved painlessly, and
cured without cutting or operating.
It is of little use acting the part of the
stupid ostrich, and refuse to look at facts as
they are. The evidence which Mr. Kugel-
mann has produced, and the vast army of
chronics which he has cured during the past
38 years, is simply unparalleled, and the
oures accomplished by him unsurpassed in
inordern history.
All chronic sufferers who have so far
neglected to consult Mr. Kugelmann should
not fail to avail themselves of this opportu-
nity, to obtain his exceptionally skilful
advice and treatment.
It has been found that in giving evidence it is
necessary for the deponent to swear to the truth
of his assertions, such oath rendering him liable to
imprisonment if false. Now, this is exactly what
has been done by those many thousands of persons
cured by Mr. Kugelmann of every supposed-to-be-
incurable disease on earth ; they have sworn to
the truth of the statements they have made, so
that all may know that they are true. The fol-
lowing are only a few out of many thousands of
testimonials received by Mr. Kugelmann from
grateful patients whom he has cured :—


from which I suffered. I suffered, too, from internal
troubles—ulceration. I nearly died from loss of blood ;
indeed, it is a wonder I am alive, and I would have been
dead long ago had I not have been fortunate enough to
consult you, which I did about six years ago, when your
diagnosis astonished me—it was so different from what I
had been told by other doctors that I gladly began your
herbal treatment, and am so thankful to be able to state
that I soon began to improve and to get stronger, and
that ulceration and all the internal troubles disappeared
without an operation of any kind, and that strength
gradually came back to me, so that I became as strong
and as healthy as ever I could wish to be ; in fact, I feel
I am quite a new woman. I am sure that suffering
womankind ought to know of such startling facts, ana
only hope you will publish what I have written.—l remain,
ever thankfully.
(Signed) L. SCUDDS.
Sworn before me, at Uraidla, this 10th day of April,
1905. (Signed) THOS. OLIVER, J.P.
Dengue Fever cured.
369 Collins-street, Melbourne,
2nd August, 1906.
H. E. Kugelmann,
14-16 Queen-street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Dear Sir, —I have had dengue fever in every part of the
world since it first came into my system, at the age of
three, in Berwick. In Charters Towers I was laid up for
three months. Whenever influenza or any other epi-
demic of a low-fever nature prevails, my old friend dengue
lays hold of me. But the specific you gave me put me
right in four hours.
(Signed) FORD. A. WHEELER.
Seven Years’ Chronic Bleeding Files
cured.
200 Dryburgh-street, North Melbourne,
Victoria, 6th June, 1906.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann,
Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in testifying to the
great and lasting benefit which I have received from your
skilful treatment. For seven years I suffered from
Chronic Bleeding Piles and Prolapse of the Lower Bowel,
during which timel tried all lcindsof remedies known, with-
out receiving any improvement, as the malady gradually
grew worse. At times, the blood would come away in
quite a stream; in fact, I lost an alarming amount of
blood. This so troubled and incapacitated me day and
night, that I was debarred from following any employ-
ment, either active or sedentary—in fact, I was driven to
despair of ever getting cured. While in this dilemma,
one of your circulars was put under my door, and after
perusing same I determined to get your advice. On see-
ing and consulting you, I was told at once that my malady'
was curable, and that you would undertake to treat me
fora given sum. I thereupon agreed, and went under
your treatment, and strictly carried out your in-
structions and treatment. At first I thought I
was getting worse, but after a time I gradually
got better, until I became completely cured. I will
say that during the time I was under the treatment I re-
ceived the utmost civility and attention. Thirteen years
have now elapsed since I was cured, during which time
no signs of a relapse of the complaint have appeared. It
is with many thanks to God and you as His agent I now
conclude, heartily wishing you every success and pros-
perity. Any persons who are desirous of having a per-
sonal interview with me with reference to these state-
ments shall be gladly welcomed.
Yours very sincerely,
(Signed) JOHN FREDERICK BYNG.
Declared at North Melbourne this 7th day of June.
1906, before me.
(Signed) J. BARWISE, J.P.
Eighteen Years’ Bleeding Tumor cured.
Seven Operations Failed.
Riverton, South Australia, February 19, 1904.
Mr, H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
. Hear Sir, —I began to suffer about 18 years ago with
internal troubles. I suffered from internal hemorrhage
in a very severe form. I went to a chemist before con-
sulting any medical man, but he nearly poisoned me. I
then consulted a doctor at Riverton, who said I was
suffering from severe internal troubles. After treating
me for some time, he sent me to a private hospital, where
I was attended by one of the leading doctors in Ade-
laide, the result of which was that my ailment did not
receive any lasting benefit. The Adelaide doctor said
that I had no internal tumor at this time. I went home
to Riverton, but kept exceedingly weak ; in fact, I kept
getting weaker, and the bleeding came on again. I then
went to Adelaide again to a celebrated doctor of that city,
who examined me and said that I had an internal growth,
and so long- as a particle of it was left it would grow,
and said it must be operated on. That was 12 months
after I first became ill, and I went under no less than
three operations at this period. I left Adelaide and
went home, and was well enough for a week or two,
and then I was bad as ever. I lost enormous quantities
of blood ; in fact, the wonder was that I did not bleed to
death. In spite of all the treatment I had I kept getting
worse. I went under no less than four operations during
the ensuing 12 months, but the bleeding kept on inter-
mittently, draining’my life away. The doctor told my
brother-in law that I would never be well, because a cure
was impossible. Altogether I underwent seven operations
at the hands of the doctors, and I became weaker after
each successive operation ; in fact, I became so weak
that I despaired of life itself, and considered myself
beyond the reach of all human aid. It was at this stage
that I heard of your treatment; in fact, I was ill in bed
when my eldest daughter drew my attention to a testi-
monial in one of your books that had come by post
some time previously. I was much impressed with
the number of remarkable cures you had effected
°ii cases "bat seemed even worse than my own •
as soon as I could, I consulted you in
Adelaide, and I must say I was much pleased with the
diagnosis you made of my case, which was so different
to what I had been used to, and on receiving an assur-
ance that you could effect a complete cure without
operating, I commenced your treatment, the result of
which was that I soon began to improve, and, although
the bleeding did not leave me at once, it gradually les-
sened, and after some time completely ceased. It is now
about five years ago since your treatment effected a
complete cure of my case, and as so many years have
elapsed, and I still remain in the best of health I feel
sure that I am justified in stating that a lasting cure has
been effected, and I consider it only right, for the benefit
of humanity, that a treatment like this, which can effect
a cure of internal growths, tumors, etc., without opera-
tions, should be widely known. lam, therefore, desirous
of having these facts published amongst your numerous
testimonials.
(Signed) (Mrs.) M. J. MITCHELL.
Declared before me, this eighth day of March, 1904.
(Signed) FRED. NORTON, J.P.
Blindness cured.
Doctors Failed.
‘ Considerable interest having been evinced by tl
re " ard to the singular recovery of Mi
o a m;y?n nl!-"i° f her B ' B ' ht after a lengthened perk
,°‘ al “ ost tQ tal blindness, a reporter was despatched I
case •— rPat '°°’ near Brisbane, to verify the facts of tl
J] quite true about my piece getting back her sigh
and what you have heard about her is in no wa
The £ rr l’s name is Stella Mary Holman, an
fall ?nu r h ° me ', W-n a bout 4± years of age she had
n seriously- injured her sight. Several doctoi
wm wront r wk U h n V e " tly . they d ‘ d ” 0t understa "d wha
TTi r"i , h her e - ves > for rtiev did her absolutely n
fh^steadilv C ;i P lnSt< ‘ ad ° f getting better under their can
fn in ' F,, worse i"> fact, her sight grew so ba
aga?n S st e the U fnr n nk Walk ab .°V n the room w 'tbout stumblin
against the furniture, and I dared not even allow her f
StOrSe’if 1 '" b bndness should cause Ter to fai
with it or injure it in some way or another. We wer
just compelled to keep her at home doing nothin"
Nor was this all the trouble. Occasionally Stell
suffered from terrible pains in the eves whiei
nearly drove her mad, and she fell away in health till sh
became a mere wreck. We then took her to a hosnita
but nothing- could be done, though some of the doctor
suggested, an operation, to which we would not
The domois seemed fairly puzzled, and, as for ourselves
we began to think that there was no help for it, and that
Stella was doomed to be practically blind for the rest of
her life. About this time we heard reports as to Mr.
Kugelmann’s wonderful skill, and as a last resource
determined to consult him. From the first moment Mr.
Kugelmann saw Stella he understood what was the matter
with her, and his treatment in a very short time greatly
improved her sight. In a few weeks you would have
hardly known her—so fat and healthy had she become.
She was bright and cheerful, and finally a sort of skin
came away from her eyes, and she could see perfectly.
She is now in splendid health, and is delighted with her
new-found power of sight, and spends nearly all her spare
time in reading. Our friends were astonished to see her
sight come back so quickly. Naturally enough, we were
very grateful to Mr. Kugelmann for bringing back Stella’s
sight, and we sincerely hope other afflicted ones will
profit by our experience.
(Signed) (Mrs.) O. F. HOLMAN.
Declared before me, at Brisbane, this twenty-seventh
day of August. 1904.
(Signed) JOHN HOWARD IRWIN, J.P.
25 Years’ Epileptic Fits cured.
Many Doctors Failed.
Sworn at Sydney, N.S.W., December, 1899. At 13
years of age I began to be afflicted with Epileptic Fits,
and was a great sufferer for over 25 years. When I had
the attacks I used to froth at the mouth, and sometimes
bit the tongue, also lips. I tried numbers of doctors,
and tried also medicine from London, but during all those
long, weary 25 years I got no good from any of them. I
passed a most wretched and miserable existence, and
was worn to a skeleton ; then I heard of Mr. Kugelmann,
and consulted him on one of his visits to Murtoa. He at
once told me the cause of the fits, and said he could cure
me. I there and then agreed, and went under his treat-
ment, and I have not had one single fit since, but have
ever since enjoyed the best of health. I hope this will be
well published.
(Signed) (Mrs.) D. McLEAN, Goyura, Vic.
Notk.—The proof of the permanent nature of this
remarkable cure is in the fact that the fits have not
returned during the past 14 years. Doctors cannot cure
Epilepsy at all, and the Bromides and other Drugs and
Poisons which they prescribe to try to prevent the
attacks only ruin the system.
Lung- Disease and Hydatids cured.
Doctors Failed.
Ermington, N.S.W., 21st December, 1896.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner
Melbourne.
Dear Sir, —I am sending you this statement concerning
the cure of my wife. Four years ago she was taken ill
with pains in the right shoulder and in the back of the
left lung. We had to consult a doctor, and after diag-
nosing the case, he stated it was pleurisy. She began to
cough very badly. She continued this treatment for some
time without any material benefit; in fact, I may state
that on and off for about three years she was under
legally-qualified medical treatment. All this time, I may
mention, she was getting gradually worse. The cough
was most distressing, and hemorrhage frequent. I also
had about this time the advice of a doctor in Parramatta.
He considered there was consumption, and after treating
her for some time he ordered her away inland. This I
was unable to carry out through want of means. She
took large quantities of cod liver oil and emulsion, by the
doctor’s orders, and these arid the other medicines she
took did not do her the slightest good whatever. We
were nearly at our wits’ end to know what to
do, when one of your books of sworn certificates
of cases you had cured came to hand. I immedi-
ately wrote to you, describing her symptoms as nearly
as I could, and was Very pleased to find by the reply you
sent that you felt absolutely confident'that you could
effect a cure in her case. I had confidence in your ability
from the letter and book we had, although we had never
seen you, and I at once sent to you for a supply of your
Herbal Treatment. After my wife bad taken it for about
six weeks, to our great surprise the treatment brought
away a quantity of hydatids and hydatid cysts from off
the lungs, and, lo and behold 1 the whole mystery was
explained at once. After this, of course, she began to
mend rapidly, and I then brought her to see you in
Sydney on one of your visits to the Grosvenor Hotel, and
obtained further treatment from you, since which she
has got on wonderfully well, and has been completely
cured. I think it is only fair to other sufferers and
humanity in general that cases like this should be uni-
versally known, so that other sufferers may know where
to obtain the same benefit, and an absolute cure of their
diseases.—l am, dear sir, yours very gratefully, (Signed)
W. T. FRANKS.
Ermington, Parramatta River, N.S.W.
Taken this 21st day of December, 1896, before me.
(Signed) JAMES SPURWAY, J.P.
Four Year’s Chronic Deafness.
Awful Head Noises Cured.
I suffered from deafness for over four years. I could
not detect the ticking of the clock unless pressed close to
the ear, when a faint, blurred noise would be perceptible.
I suffered from a tremendous humming, beating, or burr-
ing noise in the ears. The noise would often get louder
and louder, like an engine puffing. This went on for over
four years, and at last I became “ stone ” deaf. I got no
relief from any treatment or medicines. At this stage I
consulted Mr. Kugelmann on one of his visits toßrisbane.
He put me under a course of treatment which completely
cured the awful head noises, and thoroughly restored my
hearing. I can ever since hear perfectly. 'Anyone wish-
ing to know more about this marvellous cure of my case,
please call on me.
(Signed) THOMAS SHANAHAN.
Latrobe-terrace, Paddington, Brisbane, Q.
Sworn before me, at Brisbane, this sixth day of Novem-
ber, 1901.
(Signed) W. J. TROUTON, J.P., chemist, Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Chronic Heart Disease cured.
Toowoomba Doctors Failed.
Toowoomba, Queensland,
November 16, 1904.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann.
Dear Sir,—About five years ago I got an attack of heart
weakness, or which I took some Electric Essence, and at
once obtained relief, but from that time onwards I could
not get right, but always felt as though something- was
w’rong with the heart and with the nervous system, until
at last I got very bad, and went to consult a doctor in
Toowoomba, who examined me, and told me that my
heart was affected. I took hismedicines forsome months,
and continued to become weaker and worse in every wav!
I then consulted another doctor in Toowoomba, and had
his treatment for about six weeks without any benefit.
The disease, . whatever it wa , kept on making me
feel weaker and weaker, until at last I could
hardly get about, and felt I- was in a dying state.
About this time I saw- one of your books of testimonials,
and read of some wonderful cures that you had made in
Toowoomba, and decided to consult you on your next
visit, which I did, and commenced with your treatment
at once, with the result that not only did' I at once begin
to get stronger, but I also gained five pounds in weight
within the fortnight, and all the heart symptoms,-* such
as palpitation, weakness, &c., gradually left me, and my
strength returned, until at last I eouid do any work as
well as ever, and I wish this to be published for general
information.
(Signed) CONRAD BERHOLFER.
Signed and declared by the abovenained declarant at
Toowoomba, this sixteenth day of November, 1904
' ROB. REN WICK, J.P.
Cancer cured.
Yendon, Near Ballarat,
4th March, 1892.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann.
Dear Sir.—For the sake of any who suffer as I have,
wish to place on record my testimony to the cure whi<
your skilful treatment has effected in my case. Aboi
four years ago I got a sore lip it commenced with
germ on the inside ;it kept getting worse. I then co
suited a doctor, who told me it was a Cancer, but thougl
I was in time to stop it. Nevertheless, I got no bett
under his treatment. I also consulted other doctors, ar
they all told me that it would have to be cut out. I the
consulted you, and you told me it was Cancer, you cou
cure me, and told me you had cured worse cases the
mine. I then agreed to pay you a certain sum, and wei
under your treatment. I am now over twelve months
cured, and wish to thank you for the kindness and good
attention received from you.
I am, dear sir, yours most sincerelv,
THOMAS CARBURY.
Declared before me, at Yendon, this 14th day of March,
1902. W. H. MAYO, J.P.
Chronic Locomotor Ataxia cured.
Doctors Failed.
I had a numbed feeling at base of brain, and pain and
numbed feeling down the spine and in the legs, which
increased at sundown. The pains were at one time con-
stant for three months. During that period I scarcely
slept at all. I tried one doctor after another, and
gradually got worse the whole time, becoming more and
more helpless. 1 also tried the Prince Alfred Hospital;
no good. Finally, I lost all use of my legs, and fell in the
street, and had to be carried home, and found that I had
no power in the lower part of my body or legs. A medi-
cal man whom we sent for at this time pronounced it use-
less to treat me, as I was quite incurable. Hearing, how-
ever, of a case of Paralysis which Mr. Kugelmann had
cured at Goulburn, I decided to try his treatment, and it
took three men to carry me to his consulting room from
the cab. I stuck to his treatment, and after some
months’ steady treatment began to improve, and finally
got quite cured, and have been perfectly well ever since,
having regained complete use of my once-useless legs and
body. (Signed) JOHN THOMAS,
Mulgoa, Penrith, N.S.W., October 7, 1901.
Signed before me—THOMAS DAVIS, J.P.
Nine Years’ Chronic Heart Disease and
Nasal Catarrh cured Doctors Failed.
Tungamah, Victoria, 7/11/1900.
Mr. H. E. Kugelmann, Consulting Herbal Practitioner.
Dear Sir, —You are at liberty to publish the following
facts concerning the remarkable cure of my case by you
some 15 years ago, as I consider a thorough cure like
mine, which has stood the test of so many years, cannot
be too widely known. I had been a great sufferer from a
number of ailments for a very long time indeed. I tried
a lot of medicines, and kept getting worse and worse.
I suffered distressingly from difficult breathing and palpi-
tation of the heart, and great pain at the back of the
head, and between the shoulders and across the stomach
In fact, I was full of pains, from head to foot, and could
not retain any food on the stomach. I dreaded
the thought of sleep, as it never afforded me
any rest or relief. My liver was badly dis-
eased, and I suffered from an internal displacement,
and also from nasal catarrh and catarrh of the bronchial
tubes. I had consulted several doctors previously to
communicating with you in 1885, but none of them did
me any good whatever. In fact, one of them told me
he could do nothing for me at all, as mine was too
complicated a case, and he recommended me to go to a
skilful Melbourne doctor, as my only chance was to
go under an operation. I declined this, as I thought I
would rather die than be operated on. In this sad condi-
tion I wrote to you in Melbourne, and in your reply you
accurately told me what my disease, etc., was, and that
you could cure me. I, therefore, began your treatment,
and very soon began to improve. You told me it would
take some time to effect a complete cure, and so I
persevered with your Herbal remedies and your dietary
instructions, and finally became quite well again, and as
strong and hearty as ever in my life before—in fact,
a new creature, thanks to you skilful treatment, for
which, as the years roll on, I am ever increasingly
thankful. —Yours, gratefully,
(Signed) (Mrs.) HANNAH KREECK.
Declared this 7th day of November, 1900, before me.—
(Signed) J. M. WARD, J.P.
Eight Years’ chronic Goitre and Tumor
cured.
Doctors Failed.
Moyhu South, Victoria, 3/8/1900.
Mr. H. E. KUGELMANN.
Dear Sir,—l have often thought of sending you a testi-
monial setting out the facts of the wonderful cure vou
made of my case about five years ago, and I think I have
waited quite long enoug;h now to be sure of the permanent
nature of the cure. It is about twelve years ago that I
began to notice a tumor growing- in my throat, which
began to give me a good deal of uneasiness, especially so,
as I soon afterwards found I had also another tumor or
growth internally. I had medical advice and treatment
in Wangaratta ; the doctor said I had Goitre and Internal
Tumor. The internal tumor or growth grew larger and
larger continually, until it became of an immense size.
My health gradually broke down completely, and my
appetite left me. I was in great pain day and
night, and could find no relief or cure for my
sufferings, and my heart became extremely weak,
and my sleep indifferent; in fact, I became a com-
plete wreck of my former self. The doctors wished
to operate on me, as they thought nothing else
could be done. However, I was recommended to con-
sult you on one of your visits at Wangaratta, when I
was most pleased to find that you were able to diagnose
my complaint most accurately, without my telling you
what was the matter with me, and as you assured me
you could effect a complete cure without any operation,
I gladly began your treatment, and steadily continued it
for a number of months, and I am most thankful to be
able to state that the Goitre, which before your treat-
ment had become very large, gradually became smaller
each week, and the internal tumor also was, by your
wonderful treatment, gradually dissolved. My general
health vastly improved in every way, and by a patient
continuance of your treatment I finally became quite
well again, and the Goitre and Internal Tumor both
vanished. All this happened about five years ago, so I
think it is about time I let people know about it.
(Signed) (Mrs.) MARY ELLEN SMITH.
Declared at Moyhu this third day of August, 1900, be-
fore me—(Signed) AND. BYRNEj J.P., Northern Baili-
wick, Ylctoria.
Ten Y ears’ chronic Tumor cured.
Doctors Failed.
9, Union-street, South Melbourne, 27/l/’O5.
Twenty-seven years ago I was thrown out of a trap in
Colac into a culvert. I was picked up, and remained
unconscious for three hours. The doctor was sent for,
and said that two ribs were broken, and that he could
do nothing for me on account of my then condition.
I was taken home, and was in bed for three months,
being attended by the same doctor during that time,
and got so far better that I was able to go about. I
then went to Melbourne, and consulted another doctor.
He examined me, and seemed puzzled to know what was
wrong. I was very bad, with excruciating internal pains.
The doctor wanted to operate on several occasions, and
on one occasion he brought an instrument to stick right
through me ; but this I would not allow. He thought I
had Enlargement of the Liver, and treated me for same ;
but I derived no benefit from his treatment. Twelve
months or more after the accident I found a small lump
on my "right side, and I pointed this out to the doctor.
He examined me well, and confirmed his previous state-
ment —namely, that it was Enlargement of the Liver.
The lump gradually grew larger and larger; the doctor
gave me plasters, liniments, and medicines without num-
ber; but still the lump continued steadily to increase in
size, and at regular intervals I got acute attacks of
great pain, and used to frequently faint right off. The
doctor ascribed these attacks, which lasted for some
time, to weakness. The lump grew until it was about
as large as a man’s head, and used to throb and pain
dreadfully. I continued under this doctor’s treatment
for nine years ; but at last I got so bad that I went to
the Homoeopathic Hospital. The doctors examined me,
and they also said it was Enlargement of the Liver.
The medicines given me while there did me no good
whatever. Then one day I received one of Mr. Kugel-
man’s pamphlets, and there and then decided , to con-
sult him, which I did, and without any hesitation he
informed me that it was a Tumor, and that he could cure
me without operating. I began his treatment, and
steadily persevered with it as directed. At first I did not
notice much of a difference, either in the size of the
Tumor or the pains I experienced. Indeed, at times I
was very ill, and thought I would die ; but about 19
months ago the Tumor was dissolved, and broke, just as
Mr. Kugelmann said it would, and it all came away from
me. Thanks to his skilful treatment, the Tumor has
entirely disappeared, the pain has left me altogether, and
I feel perfectly cured. lam deeply grateful to Mr.
Kugelmann for his kindness in restoring me again to
health, after so many long years of suffering, and I avail
myself of every opportunity that occurs to tell other suf-
ferers of his wonderful skill.
(Signed) (Mrs.) M. PRESTON.
Declared before me at South Melbourne this 31st day of
January, 1905. (Signed) H. C. JONES, J.P.
MR. H. E.
Kucelmann
CONSULTING HERBAL
PRACTITIONER, . . .
14 lO Queen st., MELBOURNE
199 Clarence-st., SYDNEY
77-81 Queen-st., BRISBANE
AND
10-18 Pirie-st., Adelaide.
CONDUCTS PERSONAL CONSULTATIONS
AT HIS VARIOUS LARGE ESTABLISH-
MENTS AS PER
Schedule of
CONSULTING DATES
HEREUNDER
QUEENSLAND i
TOOWOOMBA , Q. —At “Imperal” Hotel (late
Long’s), from—
THURSDAY, 11th October, 1906, daily, until
TUESDAY morning, 16th October, 1906.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
IPSWICH, Q. —At “Palais Royal” Hotel, on—
WEDNESDAY, 17th October, 1906.
Hours, from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m.
THURSDAY, 18th October, 1906.
Hours, from 9 a.m. until 6 p.m.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
BRISBANE, Q. —At his Permanent Brisbane Offices
(top floor, King, Cribb and King’s Buildings),
77-79-81 Queen-street, opposite Town Hall, Bris-
bane, from—
FRIDAY, 19th October, 1906, daily, until
FRIDAY, 26tli October, 1906.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
NEW •SOUTH WALES s
LISMORE, N.S. W. —At Mr. Kugelmann’s Lismore
Branch Offices, in the New Firm’s Chambers, over
Nesbit McMaster’s Store, Molesworth-street, from—
THURSDAY, Ist November, 1906, daily, until
MONDAY, sth November, 1906.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
GRAFTON, N.S. W. (Clarence River).—At
“Commercial” Hotel, on—
WEDNESDAY, 7th November, 1906.
SYDNEY, N.S. W. —At his permanent Sydney Offices’
199 Clarence-street, between King and Market
streets, first floor, upstairs, on the following dates
from—
MONDAY, 12th November, 1906, daily, until
WEDNESDAY, 14th November, 1906.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
ADELAIDE, S.A.— At his Permanent Branch Offices,
upstairs, first floor, City Chambers, Nos. 16 and 18
Pirie-street, near King William street, within two
minutes of G.P.0., on left-hand side of Pirie-street,
on the following dates, viz.—
WEDNESDAY, 21st November, 1906, daily,
until—
FRIDAY morning, 30th November, 1906.
And about every 16th week thereafter.
MELBOURNE, VIC.— At his Head Offices, li and 16
Queen-street, near Flinders-street, from—
MONDAY, 17th December, 1906, daily, until
SATURDAY, 22nd December, 1906.
THURSDAY, 27th December, 1906, daily,
until—
SATURDAY, 29th December, 1906.
WEDNESDAY, 2nd January, 1907, daily,
until—
TUESDAY, Bth January, 1907.
And about every 12th week thereafter.
What has been
Cured.
Mr. KUGELMANN has successfully
Cured, amongst others, the following
diseases : —Cancer, Blindness, Cataract
of the Eye, Granulation of Eyes, Ulcers
on Eyes, and other Eye Diseases, Scrofula,
Scurvy, Leprosy, Hip Disease, Disease of the
Bones or Caries, Eczema, Consumption of Lungs,
Consumption pf Throat, Fistula, Asthma, Bron-
chitis, Induration of Lungs, Aneurism, Valvular
Heart Disease, Angina Pectoris, Enlargement of
Heart, and all other Heart Diseases of every form,
Enlarged Liver, Enlarged Spleen, Congested
Liver, Ulcerated Liver, Hypertrophy of the
Liver, Anaemia, Hysteria, Epilepsy (or Fits),
Cholera, Dyspepsia (or Indigestion) in every form
known. Palsy, Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia,
Spinal Complaint, Gravel, Diabetes, and all
Kidney Diseases, Baldness, Mania, Impaired
Vision and Memory, Gout, Rheumatism, Rheu-
matic Fever, Sciatica, Varicose Veins, Ulcerated
Sore Legs, Goitre, Nasal Catarrh, Polypus, Post
Nasal Growth, Jaundice, Chronic Constipation,
Piles, Gallstones, Chronic Affections of the
Spleen, Chronic Headaches, Chronic Biliousness,
Neuralgia, Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys,
Granular Kidney, latty Kidney, Displacement
of Kidneys, or Floating Kidneys, Stone in
Kidney, Stone in Bladder, Diureses, Dropsy,
Enlargement of Joints, Cystitis, Gastric Catarrh,
Ulceration of the Stomach or Bowels, Catarrh
of Stomach, Catarrh of Intestines, and all other
Internal,Ulcerations, Chronic Gastritis, Tumors
of the Stomach, Tumors of the Liver, Cancerous
Tumors, all Abnormal Growths, Internal Troubles
and Displacements,(without operations or wearing
of instruments). Appendicitis, Rupture, Nervous-
ness, Loss of Memory, Loss of Vigor and Vitality,
Mercurial and Lead Poisoning, Sunstroke, Colic,
I ape Worm and all other AVorms, Chronic
Diarrhoea, St. Vitus’ Dance, Chorea, Insomnia or
Sleeplessness, Organic Headache, Tetanus or
LockjaW, Deafness, Noises in the Head or Ears,
and all Diseases of the Nose, Ears, Throat’
Tonsils, Tuberculosis, etc.
£5OOO REWARD
WILL BE PAID TO ANYONE
Who can prove that any of the
Certificates of Cases Cured and
Published by Mr. KUGELMANN
are not Genuine.
(Signed) HERMAN EMIL KUGELMANN.
war


THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
7(6
fgs
TP HIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
1 couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Pace. Can he wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
To Let
The newly erected premises known as
ADAMS’ BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.,
consisting' of Four Flats with spacious
cellar, divided as under.
CELLAR-
116ft. x 60ft., 9ft. 6in. high.
GROUND FLOOR-
Three divisions, 57 x 28ft., 96 x 39ft.,
and 59ft. 6in. x 29ft.
FIRST FLOOR—
Five divisions, 96 x 39ft., 57 x 28ft.,
96 x 26ft., 110 x 70ft., 61 x 28ft.,
61 x 28ft.
SECOND FLOOR
Two divisions, 170 x 36ft., 170 x 28ft.
THIRD FLOOR
Two divisions, 170 x 28ft., 170 x 36ft.
With the above there is the old Brewery
building, consisting of capacious cellars,
ground floor and first floor; also commodious
iron building, detached, containing two
divisions on ground floor, 40 x 47ft. and
39 x 47ft., and first floor, 79 x 47ft.
The premises are suitable for various
manufacturing purposes, or for cool storage.
A Very Low Rental will be accepted, but
the premises will not be let for brewing
purposes. Full particulars on application to
H. NICKOLLS,
CASCADE BREWERY,
HOBART, TAS.
dfv
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
xdf
Queen Alexandra Honors
The Massacon Inventor.
DEAFNESS, total or par-
tial, need no longer be
a hopeless affliction. The
wonderful discovery and
invention of the MASSACON
for the CURE of DEAFNESS,
and the ACOUSTICON, as an
artificial aid to hearing, has
brought permanent relief
from the misfortunes of
deafness within the reach of
all. H.M. QUEEN ALEX-
ANDRA has conferred a Gold
Medal on' the Inventor as a
reward for scientific inven-
tion. Write to-day for free
Booklet B, giving full par-
ticulars of theseinstruments.
Consultations and-tests free.
ACOUSTIC PATENTS LTD.,
Equitable Buildings,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
vxd
Hair Worries.
That ever falling hair is worrying you—it’s
no use trying to delude yourself into believing
that it isn’t. You know where it is leading
you to —don’t you ?
There can be no mistaking the ultimate end
of it all, it MUST mean baldness.
Take the matter in hand NOW, use
CAPILLA
I know that you have tried almost every other hair restorer. I know that
you are disgusted with the strenuous efforts wasted. Ido ask you not to class
“ OAPILLA ” with the preparations you have been using. It is diiferent from
them all in composition and its power to produce hair. It is at once a
medicinal and antiseptic Hair Food that will do your hair positive good. It
is unequalled in its power to make the scalp clean and healthy, and to produce
a luxurious growth of “ nature’s chief adornment.”
All Chemists sell “ CAPILLA,” Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle. Full course
(6 bottles), posted direct, 17s. 6d., from
W. O. RICHARDS, Inventor, 12 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
7 AULPANA WINES
In competition
against all . . .
• Australia at. .
1904 CHAMPION CUP—HOCK
1905 CHAMPION CUP—CLARET
1906 CHAMPION CUP—SHERRY
And Numerous FIRST PRIZES.
ADELAIDE WINE SHOW.
HEAD OFFICE: ADELAIDE, S.A.
SYDNEY BRANCH : ANGEL PLACE, PITT ST.
in
scz
Quphophones
Make Happy Homes.
<»'
to
«ti
'IV
to
H)
&
GENUINE
COLUMBIA
MAKE
\y>
\t/
Vl/
W
®
Price, 15/- Complete* $
«€€€«€«€^€€«€€€««€a
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH Co*
GEN’L.i
25 ASH STREET, SYDNEY.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KINO ST., SYDNEY
Next Herald Branch Office. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. DRESSING & RECEPTION ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
A Large Assortment of Transformations, Natural Hair Pads, Fringes, Tails and all Accessories
kept in stock. Combings made up. TOILET REQUISITES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Ladies’ Homes visited by Appointment. Country Orders Promptly Attended to.
fb
Pure Grape H.V.D. BRANDY
J. B. COOK, Ltd., 82 Pitt St., Sydney, cAgents.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
<M ™“ ) cHKMimMHM M.O.W- 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY »
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement ,
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation througa
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BA&,J.LFv, *£§. aec^_
PEERLESS
GLOSS
MAKES THE SHINE \
THAT WONT COME OF!
There is no need to soil „
the clothing with untidy
polishes. Hauthaway’s Peer-
less Gloss imparts a rich,
lustrous shine that neither injures
bs
* -‘v
the leather nor soils l
the garments. It is
cleanly. It is free from
acids. Millions use it.
You should try it. It
polishes without rubbing.
y Made only by
► C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN 5. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England
WHAT IS CATARRH?
eb
MEDICATOR.
Catarrh is inflammation of
the lining membrane of the
nose ant) adjoining passages.
If this inflammation is not
arrested it invades the pas-
sages which lead from the
nose to the head, ears, throat
and lungs. It injures the
sight and hearing, destroys
the sense of taste and smell,
renders the breath offensive,
breaks down the affected tis-
sues, consumes the nasal car-
tileges, and rots away the
small frontal bones of the
skull. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and sto-
mach, causes dyspepsia, also
consumption. Do you want
relief and cure? If so, try
our great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR Cures
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness,
Headache,Neuralgia,Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Asthma,
Hay Fever, La Grippe, etc.
Price,complete wi th 4 raon ths’
treatment by mail, 10s.
Write for Booklet, free, or send order direct to
Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King of
Briar Pipes
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
mm
l&DismfectinglH
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRAGRANT,
NCX'OOaSONOUS.
1/“
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable in all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Limehouse,
London.
DRUNKARDS
CAN BE CURED
With or without the patient’s knowledge. For FREE
Book and References write and enclose stamps to
pay for postage. THE EUCBASY COY., 62 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA CURE
6RIIIIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Dlfficnlty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonßConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
“Melb.”: The annual reports of the three
local synagogues—West Melbourne, East Mel-
bourne and St. Kilda—are before me. Nothing
of these appears in the general press. The reports
are for the year 5665, ending September 19th.
The West Melbourne finances look good enough,
but it is pointed out that they have only been
pulled upby a legacy of £415 which dropped in from
Mish Solomons. Much dissatisfaction was ex-
pressed at the annual meeting over the back-
wardness of things. However, there was a
vote of thanks to Rabbi Abrahams. The East
Melbourne congregation also had a very lively
meeting. It, too, got £415 from Mish Solomons.
The report mentions that the Synagogue is
mortgaged to the Old Colonists’ Association. It
is agreed that £lOO a year will be paid off during
the next five years, on which condition the mort-
gage is just renewed. The veteran Joseph
Kronheimer is complimented both in the East
Melb. and West Melb. reports. Pastor Lenzer
holds the fort at East Melb. The St. Kilda
Synagogue, under young Pastor Danglow, had the
most harmonious meeting, but its pastor has only
been one year in office.
Bits from an article by Dr. Albert L.
Aslimead, formerly foreign director of the Tokio
Hospital, in the New York Tribune, Aug., 1905 :
This (Japanese) savage heathen race . . . We are being
made fools of by, perhaps, the wiliest, politest, most
conceited, and most arrogant people of modern times . . .
What are they going to do with us, and with other
civilised nations, now that the savage millions of Japan
and China have learned their strength, and are armed
with the best modern weapons with which to express
it ? ... A nation of hypocrites and liars.
“ Melb.” : An Argus correspondent ex-
humes something new about Fawkner. Lecturing
at Bendigo, he said that he and all the other
voun°- fellows in Hobart used to visit the incom-
ing ships, looking for wives. He was first on the
scene with one vessel, picked the handsomest
srirl and was returning with his property when
an acquaintance knocked him down and took the
eirl away. He went back to the ship and picked
the homeliest. “ There she is now ” said Johnny,
pointing to his wife on the platform. My
faithful partner for 38 years. Yet, if I mistake
not, she afterwards married J. J. Walsh, a
barrister, and democratic politician.
“Philo ” tells about the “ under-tow ” :
The treacherous under-tow of the beaches around
Sydney has for its worst feature its roving habit. \ou
don’t become aware of its presence until you are fairly in
it One morning I went out beyond the other bath< rs.
I felt very happy and important till I tried to return ,
then I found myself in difficulties. I tried to put my
feet on the bottom, but the galloping quicksand gave me
no foothold, and I was sucked out in a raging vortex.
I felt that I was travelling away from the shore at the
rate of a hundred miles, or more, a minute. The beach
was only a vague, imperfect vision on the horizon, and
vast wastes of water separated me from it, and the people
were a crowd of the tiniest black ants running helplessly
about I was told afterwards that I was only abm t
lOOvds. away, but there seemed miles of roaring, chnku g
water between those running ants and me. And the
landscape and the water and everything were revolv ng
round and round me with wonderful velocity. Ine w
became possessed with the idea that my only hope lay in
keepin<> U p a continuous and vigorous kicking and sphuh-
ing and that the whole mighty Pacific was waiting for
the slightest weakening to rush in and swallow me up.
And so l just kicked. I was still kicking when they
rescued me.


Affected Whole System—Could Not
Sleep Nights—Lost Flesh and
All Run Down —Advised By a
Friend to Try Cuticura and Now
Gladly Recommends
CUTICURA REMEDIES
TO ALL SUFFERERS
“I write you to say I am cured of
eczema, and can say that I owe it to
the Cuticura Remedies, and I gladly
recommend them to all suffering with
any form of eczema. For four long
months I suffered agony and an itching
and burning feeling which affected my
whole system, so as I could not sleep
nights, and I did not care to go into
imblic, as I would have no ease. I
ost flesh and was all run down. I
tried everything I could think of and
also everything that was advertised,
but got no relief, until I was advised
by a friend to try Cuticura, which I
did, and can truthfully say I got imme-
diate relief. I would gladly recom-
mend Cuticura to any one suffering as
I did with eczema, and can verify my
statement by members and also inti-
mate friends of my family. I trust
that this testimonial may be of some
benefit to persons suffering with any
skin diseases.” Chester A. Bailey,
Oct. 17, 1905. Somerville,‘Mass.
CORED AT SMALL EXPENSE
“When an. infant I had a bad humour
on my head, for which I was treated
with Cuticura Soap and Ointment,
and now I have a good head of hair
and the humour is entirely gone. It
only required one box of Ointment
and one cake of Soap to effect a cure.
I send this with my permission to
publish.” Miss Iza McNaughton,
June 13, 1905. Milo, Me.
The originals of the above testimonials are on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Eeference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age.
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
aa~ Mailed Free, “All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, R. Towns Sc Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
FREE TO THE
DEAF
If you suffer from Deafness, Head-noises, Dis-
charging- Ears, or any aural complications, and desire
acomplete and permanent cure, at vour own home,
write at once to The “ EAROSCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., for a FREE pamphlet, fully
describing an entirely new, self applied method
which will be sent to you gratis and post free on
mentioning this paper. 1A
s
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
'*• to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, top action, choke bore, walnut, stock.
Usual Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, top action, wal-
nut stock, with cartridge machine and cleaners
complete. Usual price, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. od. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
RODS
For Locating MINES)
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON, 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
95,000
“THE WAYBACK SERIES.”
NO 3, RED HARRY, 1/-
The Last an« Best wor
Indigestion
IS
MOTHER
SEIGELS SYRUP
USE IT —IT PROVES ITSELF.
Digest-
ion is the
foundation
of health, the
absolute bedrock
on which life itself
is built. When it fails
every organ of your body,
right up to the brain, suffers;
when it stops altogether—
you die. This is the plain
truth. If you suffer from
indigestion in any form,
take Mother Seigel’s
Syrup—take it as you
would take medi-
cine prescribed
by a physician,
as direct-
ed, and
IT WILL
CURE
YOU
•'My
appetite
broke down,
and what I did
eat I could not
digest, There was a
bad taste in my mouth,
tightness across my chest,
and aches and pains all over
me. I lost strength, slept
badly, and felt done up after
the least exertion. Nothing
did me any good at all but
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. That
thoroughly cured me.”
From Mr. M. Nielsen,
Bourbon Street,
BundAberg,
Central
Queensland.
Dec. 29th.
1905.
NATURE-.
When a person suffers from
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
it is but Nature’s warning that the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
are not efficiently doing their duty.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but, if through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their work
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins con-
taminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as Rheu-
matism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine passed the first thing in the.morning, in a covered glass, and let it stand
until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brickdust, is of an unnatural color, or
has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must immediately be
taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifestations of uric
poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we
suffer from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia,
Jaundice, Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organs
which resulted in the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
which would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
for such a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding a
medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
marvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
the retention in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
naturally eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease. Cures effected
by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. [l2]
k* “A truly delightful Thirst Quencher.” *
The Lancet writes :—“ Lime Juice is, particularly during the
summer, afar more wholesome drink than any form of alcohol.”
L
LIMEJUICE CORDIAL
“ Montserrat ” is obtained solely irom tbe celebrated
Lime Juice Plantations in the Island of Montserrat.
To obtain the genuine, specify “ MONT.'ERRAT.”
OF ALL STORES AND CHEMISTS.
The Inky Way.
“ Edyson ”: The new Australian National Party in
Melbourne, a movement started by conspicuous Protec-
tionists, sets forth, amongst other noble intentions, its
resolve to encourage Australian literature. Being amongst
those likely to welcome encouragement of a practical
kind, I have been watching the Australian National
Party with interest, and up to now I have discovered, in
the speeches of the members, several highly compli-
mentary allusions to Gordon, Kendall, and Brunton
Stephens. The speech-makers implied that these were
Australian litterateurs whose works should be encouraged
and studied. Now, I want to know what Marcus Olarke
has done. Marcus is just as dead as any of the three
poets mentioned, then why is he overlooked ? There
is Victor Daley, too. Perhaps Daley has not
been underground long enough to be regarded as a
deserving object in the literary 7 field ; hut surely the
active members of the Australian National party are not
so conservative as to expect a man to be dead 20 years at
least before he can be considered ripe for encourage-
ment ? It should be sufficient for them if the litterateur
be quite dead, and the death certificate is in evidence. I
venture to hope, too, that the National party will be
consistent, and apply precisely similar methods in the
case of those manufacturers whom it is its aim
to encourage. Let the principles of Protection be
extended to manufactures only when the manufacturer
who needs encouragement has been dead long enough to
preclude the possibility of his rising up and enjoying the
benefits. The average business man’s idea of encouraging
Australian literature is to read a cheap copy of Gordon’s
poems for half-an-hour once a month, and, meanwhile, the
living Australian writer, if he wants to produce a book
here, must pay about 40 per cent, more than it would
cost to have the work done in England. He does not
buck at that —he is proud, of the wage conditions that
occasion the difference—but he does buck at the comfort-
able patriot who thinks he is being a devilish liberal
fellow in return, and helping up Australian literature,
when he drops a few clyster-shells of appreciation on
Gordon’s grave. It’s a cheap and miserable kind of service,
this offering oafs to a deceased horse.
ft * * *
Eighty, and quite blind, is the September record of
Charles F. Somerton, one of Victoria’s oldest pressmen.
His father trod the Inky Way in the Cold Country, and,
over 50 years ago, the sprightly Charlie joined the Mel-
bourne Morning Herald, from the ruins of which emerged
the present A R » US - Successively he owned the Mary-
borough Advertiser and Mt. Alexander Mail, returning
in the end to city life to run the Daily Telegraph. In
this venture he was associated with the.well-named Purse
as partner, and Duffett (the solicitor) as some sort of
power behind the throne. When the Telegraph was
taken over and done for by the Bleeds Fitchett crowd,
working journalism knew C.F. no more, and he had plenty
of leisure to cultivate flowers for the boutonniere which
was his inseparable ornament.
* * * *
Lately died in Melbourne, at the age of 59, a well-
known identity of the weekly press—John Francis
Denehy. Denehy arrived from County Cork, Ireland,
when he was 12 years of age. He spent the latter part
of his life as general utility man on the Melbourne;
Advocate, to which paper he was reckoned almost in-
dispensable. On publishing day, Denehy was a great
man —when he wasn’t buzzing round the printers he was
up at the palace drawing out some exclusive nformation
from the Archbishop. Then he would have to write up a
couple of columns, attend some afternoon function, and
generally ended the day by rushing in with a half-page
advt in his fist when the paper was made upforpress.
* * * »
Brisbane Courier has apparently at last tumbled to its
importance as a moulder of international opinion. Eight
recent leaders (within three days) were entitled “ British
Military Burlesque,” “An Empty Threat” (referring to
Germany), “The Seidlce Massacre,” “ Mr. Haldane’s Pro-
posals,” “The Cuban Revolution,” “ Exit Trepoff,” “A
Little History,” and “ Churchill’s Apologetics.” There
were three articles in the same period about Australian
affairs. One dealt with the Brisbane wool sales, and
another was about the Brisbane rifle range.
* * * *
“ N.M.L..” : During the debate on the Gambling Sup-
pression Bill in Vic. Assembly, Labor leader Prendergast
opined that “ one could always tell the newspaper tipsters
at the races. They won nothing, and had to walk home.”
My experience of journalistic tipsters is that they are
particularly successful gamblers. But they are not so
foolish as to stand to the forecasts they have compiled
several davs before the races. They wait for the latest
developments on the course. It is the blind followers of
the tipsters’ published prophecies, based on stale infor-
mation or none, who most frequently have to trudge
home stonv-broke over the broken stones.
'** * *
“'Agricola ” : Did the deadly monotony of the cycle of
serials in the morning papers ever strike you ? The
order of things is as follows (1) English story of the
Peninsular War, or French Revolutionary 7 yarn swimming
in gore—red, steaming gore. (2) A modern love tale,
oilv and full of snobs, and knee-deep in kiss juice. (3) A
mild Sherlock Holmes yarn, with an abnormally clever
criminal and an infernally dull ’tec., who makes you de-
sire to kick him through 17 chapters because he won’t
pick up the clue the author so obligingly left for him in
the second instalment. (4) A wildly improbable yarn of
the fights of various pretenders for the throne of some
imaginary European State, where they always talk Ger-
man. (5) Another blood-stained yarn of the French revo-
lutionary disagreement. And the rest all over again in
due sequence, including the wicked pretender to the
throne of Blobstein, and the rightful princess, and all
the rest of the tall imperial slush.
THE BLUE PENCIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A fiendish man sits there to ban quaint yarns and soulful
songs,
And hour by hour abuses power that unto him belongs.
His soul corrodes as he slays our odes; he makes each
little less ;
He’s quite cocksure about Literature, and he knows not
bashfulness.
Rose, woman, wine—’tis pearls to swine ; he draws his
guilty screw
By cuts and hacks with his blood-stained axe and his
baleful Pencil Blue.
The golden Spring, where the bell-birds sing, and the
wavelets kiss the shore ;
The murmuring stream where lover’s dream —he’s heard
’em all before.
The sweet red rose that blooms and blows on top of the
Drunkard’s Grave
He rejects each time like the simple rhyme of the sun-
beam on the wave.
®he domestic life of the Gambler’s Wife the basket
hides from view,
And My Guiding Star “ might make a par,” say 3 he
with the Pencil Blue.
He has no mind for the whispering wind that sighs o’er
the smiling scene,
He has no soul for the funeral roll of the Men That Might
Have Been ;
The Orbfed Night, the Heart's Delight, and Lost Loves
two and three,
He treats as shams, which he loudly damns, with the
Graveyard by 7 the Sea.
At the Suicide’s Doom and the Silent Tomb and the
Angel-Girl we knew,
With ghoulish glare he shakes his hair and clutches his
Pencil Blue.
He has no room for Wattle Bloom, nor the lights of Faerie
Town ;
The Dying Child but makes him wild, and he curses Eyes!
of Brown,
He swears amain at the sweetheart’s pain for the Days of
Long Ago,
And he wipes out Dick, the stockman sick, who dies in
the Sunset Glow.
“ There’s Sweet Lucette, my fair brunette, now lost to
Fancy’s view ! ”
The brute doth leer, “Not here, not here,” and juggles
his Pencil Blue.
VIC.
LODIN ESSON.


Consumption
Can Be Cured.
[I
Dr. Derk P. Yonkerman, whose
discovery of a Cure for
Consumption has startled
the World.
Marvellous as it may seem after the centuries
of failure, a cure for consumption has at last
been found. After twenty years of almost
ceaseless research and experiment in his
laboratory, the now renowned specialist, Derk
P. Yonkerman, has discovered a specific which
has cured the deadly Consumption even in its
far advanced stages. In many cases, though
all other remedies tried had failed and changes
of climate were unable to check the progress of
the disease, this wonderful specific has conclu-
sively proved its power to cure.
Whatever your position in life may be
if you are in consumption, or suffer from
asthma, bronchitis, catarrh, or any throat or
lung trouble, this cure is within your reach,
for it is a home treatment and need not
interfere in any way with your daily occupa-
tion. Prove for yourself its healing power
ABSOLUTELY FREE.
Simply send your name and address
t'S the Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd..
693 Dixson Buildings, Sydney, and they will
post to you a free trial treatment of this
remarkable remedy.
Don’t hesitate or delay if you have any of
the symptoms of consumption. If you have
chronic catarrh, bronchitis, asthma, pains in
your chest, a cold on your lungs, or any throat
or lung trouble, wCte to-day for the free trial
treatment and full instructions, and cure
yourself before it is too late.
BEING SAVED FROM
DRUNKENNESS
THE CURSE OF THE WORLD.
Will send confidentially, in plain sealed envelope,
full information how to be cured at the patient’s own
home, quite secretly and without the least deten-
tion from daily routine work. Send no money, it is
FREE and strictly confidential.
Address—Analeptic, 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
1 BROAD STREET PLACE, LONDON, E.C.
Pfi CP' POST FREE, £1 per year,
* * IV/C j n advance, all over the world.
Managing Director- - Mr. J. E. SCANTLE3URY.
The British-Australasian is the journalistic
principle of connection between Great Britain
and Australasia.
It is the NEW SCHOOL in the develop-
ment of Australian thought. It gives Austra-
lian writers not only the benefit of Australian
circulation, but introduces them first-hand,
through its'British circulation, to the teeming,
millions of Great Britain.
The British- Australasian' is the Organ
of Appreciation; THE AUSTRALIAN
LITERARY CITADEL in London.
Original Australian articles dealing with the
growth, development and resources of Aus-
tralia are particularly s«jt a,) l e > also Australian
stories, sketches, verde, &c., &c.
9
fife femfei uife/fe
Mvmfife
(feSfifi/JfifefeJfi
a?id fiaJfi) fe/tafefi fifi
fe fife fefea/ifefi.
BMP
¥<
m
mm
■ 9
o
V. fi
'£ -
m
ti. ,*Jk
\m,
I H
If* you use a J-are Sen hose now you’ll get more
out of your garden later on—more pleasure,
more flowers—jnore vegetables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Send lor
/ Price Lists.
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so good.
Otir Hose haj! a reputation behind it, and every
Hose we sell will do that reputation' good. .
Perdriau Robber Go., 14&
; RUBBER MERCHANTS, i7O GEORGE ;AT., SYDNEy. - ;
Pieces of Maoriland ex-farm-burners are
conveyed to Wellington <_ very year to be examined
by a Medical Military Board. Armless youths
are seut from the North and legless persons from
the South, so that three medicine-men shall satisfy
themselves that the limbs haven’t grown again.
In case new limbs have started, the Board docks
the pension in proportion to the amount of new
limb. Bull pensioned many permanently-smashed
ex-farm-burners, but Bull isn't fool enough to
order the payees to parade in London for annual
medical inspection. Bull pays right up to funeral-
time. The M.L. authorities recently insisted that
an ex-cohentingenter, who is paralysed and un-
able to even undo a button, should be brought
from Auckland to Wellington to parade before
the Board. The man was stacked aboard a
steamer in a wheel-chair, and the wheel-chair had
a bad time in the rough weather. Arrived in
Wellington, the pensioner’s mate couldn’t induce
anybody to take the wreck in, and so he wheeled
him about all night and showed him the scenery.
In the morning the Board found that the paralytic
was still paralysed, and sent him back to Auck-
land. M.L. has an officer with a shot finger and
two pensions—one from Bull, t’other from M.L.
—a “ compassionate allowance,” and a fat Govern-
ment billet. He is not inspected.
Alf. Brasch philosophises, more or less
deeply :
As I sit here writing' in the half-light, a moth lopes
into the room—one of those large, grey, helpless moths
with the painted wings. He is strong and young, I
should imagine, full of life and the joy of living—a moth
just setting out in life, with his young ambitions full and
sweet and untarnished upon him. He prospects around,
sees the fading landscape through the window, and flies
for it.
Bomp ! His first reverse 1 His first taste of the bitter-
ness of life !
He takes a few minutes to recover—then sets out to see
what hit him. The glass puzzles him. He can see the
light and the fair prospect beyond, but, strive as he will,
with powerful wings, with strong thrust of muscular
limbs, with stern determination, he can make no impres-
sion on that invisible barrier. Up and down the pane he
goes ; down and up,,untiringly, unceasingly.
He halts at last, baffled, but only for a few seconds.
Off again he starts, up and down, down and up.
Now he begins to doubt if it is really the Light he sees
—the Light which grows fainter and fainter 1 He thinks
that that impassable barrier, through which he catches a
glimpse, a promise of better things, is the sum and the
end of all.
His faith is shaken.
Then someone brings in the lamp.
“ At last —the Light ! ” thinks the grey fool-moth, and
flies to it. No barrier here, but Light and Warmth and
Life. . .
There is a Szzzzz, a faint smell of singeing, and a grey
blurr on my paper.
It is the Epitome of Life.
A tricky Chinaman in indigent circum-
stances has been beating Dunedin (M.L.) Benevo-
lent trustees badly for a long time past. The
pigtailed gent drew ss. a week for himself and
another ss. for his poor sick brother, who was too
frail to call personally. A policeman went along
with a couple of extra blankets for the pair lately,
and found that the brother existed only in John’s
imagination. Presumably he had hired an alleged
brother when he first received the grant, and with
due notice he would have hired him again, but
the surprise visit found only one John. The
weekly dole has been indignantly cut down to 3s.
“ Overdraft” writes :
Re par on Woolloomooloo (B. 13 9/’O6) and its narrow
streets. With all due respect to the writer, Woofioo-
mooloo is a Paris, a Boston, compared to Surry Hills.
Take “ Frog Hollow.” There may be found a terrace of
houses on the . Riley-street level, and another terrace
built in underneath in a sort of cave. The walls of this
cave terrace are permanently damp, the inner rooms are
dark and dank;, the only light and ventilation to them
coming-from the two-storey-deep “ area ” of the terrace
on top. The frontage is to a lane. The yard of the
terrace on top has a sort of bulwark, on which the upper
terrace people can lean and watch the squalid battles,and
slum rows in the “lower deep” beneath. Then there’s
Beauchamp Lane, where every storm floods the per-
manently damp houses, and where foul gully shafts,
usually filled with stale fish, dead cats and decayed vege-
table matter, “ smell to heaven.” Then, within a quarter
of a mile of Sydney Town Hall, off Nithsdale-street, is a
terrace where there are no sanitary conveniences in the i
houses. This terrace can be distinctly smelt by the Lord I
Mayor as he sits in his robes in the Town Hall meditating
on his coming knighthood. It is not his fault, however,
as the,City Improvement Act is a dead letter, the Health
Acts are old and complicated, and there is no Building
Act. Some of the suburban areas are, if possible, worse
than this. In the city, at any rate, the Health Depart-
ment of the Council is a live body, doing its best with the
wretched Acts it has to work with. In the suburban
areas the Councils - are in a perpetual sjmcope. The
weight of their various overdrafts chokes them, and only
occasionally, when the Government Board of Health
sticks pins in them, do they do anything in the, public
health line. Oh ! for a Greater Sydney in our time !
Australia, on the Harvester question, has
been tearfully hegged by Cook and Reid not to
penalise the industry of our brother Canadian, or
to suspect him of invoice faking. And The
Bulletin comes across, in the Ironmonger, an
account of cutlery frauds by Canadian makers —
frauds which were not only carried out by
Canadian people, .but apparently received the
tacit support of the Canadian Government:—
Although the Canadian Government was frequently
appealed , to, it made no effort to stop the frauds, and
nothing was done on behalf of the Sheffield trade until
the Master-Cutler personally visited Toronto and in-
structed a firm of solicitors there to prosecute on behalf,
and at the expense of, the Cutlers’ Company On the
Canadian swindler’s premises great quantities of falsely-
marked goods were seized.
It used to be the dream of the Leahy
family that all three brothers would one day
occupy seats in the Queensland Assembly, if not
in the Ministry. The dream is shattered. Patsy
has little hope of being re-elected for Warrego ;
he got in for the first time in 1902 with 57 ma-
jority; he crawled in in 1904 with 15 majority;
and in 1907 he doesn’t hope to crawl at all unless
his opponent is struck by lightning after nomina-
tion day. Johnny’s constituency has only 581
electors, and is likely to be wiped out by a redis-
tribution of seats. As for Dahny, he seems to
have no luck at all. Constituencies just shudder
and pass by on the other side when Danny
beckons to them.
In “ 100 Break and How to Make It,” the little
book of billiard diagrams and footnotes, whereof Sawkins,
of Melbourne, is the proud father, capable amateurs will
find a more simple and suggestive course of instruction
than they can Met from an ordinary wordy work on
billiards. Sawkins talks to , men who have acquired a
fair knowledge of the game and need only a little practice
To make a great improvement in their method of dealing
with the balls. The book doesn’t ask them to be brilliant
cueists, but it shows them how an ordinary per-
former can get into the way of playing a suc-
cession of simple strokes for position at the top
of the table. The diagram lessons are simplified
by duplication. No. 1 diagram sets the first problem.
No. 2 shows the result of the stroke with a footnote
stating why it was made, which result sets the problem
for the next stroke, and so on until the 100 break is com-
pleted. The problems allow a reasonable margin for
inaccuracy in the play. For example, the footnote to
the sixth diagram says : “The previous shot was played
a little too hard for good position for the drop cannon,
but the player was able, without side, to score a couple
off the white, and then obtain position for the desired
cannon.” Eighty diagrams in all are given, and the in-
struction they convey to the reader is certainly worth
the eigbteenpence. George Robertson and Co. are the
publishers.


YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
df
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
■
This DIET is recommended
I in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Inva ids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who a-e
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
HOLLO WATS PILLS
' v #>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill health
known as “run-down” cr “out of sorts.”. Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest reiredy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-'* welcome relief
in a very short time.
V 4?
C# C#
sd
JUST A FEW BOOKS
SOLD
BY
SIR ROBERT!
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, '2s Od posted, Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Gd. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bel L’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s (id. Aunt. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s Gd. M uio.met’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Bower (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Gd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is Gd. Tiie Art of Jui-Jit.su,
9dandlsGd. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
llow to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, lsGd.
fg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinci3,ls 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 St Nos and Ballads of Ireland, Sis;
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is Sd. Camille, Is'
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easv, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR ««PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as i t exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faudkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. On Our New Selection, (is (id.
Lung Complaints, Is (id. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wan nan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s (id
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptamkron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ffsr- J.t-tnMuhed SO Yearn.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Oi,d Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. lln. Mi word’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7a fid post. Voltaire's Homancks,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Mas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassk’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bejad and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 Plus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing. Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The GRANDEST LIVER FILL in the WORLD
“Take a Cockle’s Pill” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a fnrred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from l/i-j- to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ 1
m
FOOD
For INFANTS , INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE.
Benoer’s has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”
The mayor’s cupboard is an important
item of municipal government, and many a breach
between aldermen has been bridged over in the
pleasant atmosphere of the mayor’s room. It is
there that Alderman Binks replenishes the
beaker of Alderman Winks to show that he is
ready to accept an apology, and there Alderman
Winks, who, in the heat of debate, had said that
Alderman Binks was mentally disqualified to shift
offal to a bear, passes the biscuits in return, as a
silent protrusion of the olive branch. But the
influence of the Good Man councillor is beginning
to make itself felt, and many municipalities
have elected mayors who will keep) only
teetotal cupboards. Therefore, the usual ad-
journment to the mayor’s room at the con-
clusion of meetings is likely to die out, and
with it one of the attractions of municipal life.
The old alderman might have his failings, but
cold water and cabin biscuits were not of them,
and there is already visible on the horizon the
coming of a new style of alderman—a small,
cantankerous good man who brings his cold tea
and muffin in his coat-tail pocket.
“ Kati Kati,” on the birth question :
They were determined to give the young one every
chance from the very beginning—even before birth. For
where is the profit of bringing into the world one that
might always be a living accusation against them of
having connived at degeneracy in a race that has
acquired all the qualities of value which it no\v possesses
by centuries of selection and elimination ? If the physical
and mental attributes of its parents would effect like per-
fection in their offspring, its chances were good, for a
wise selection had been made in the mating. The father,
strong in muscle and brain ; the mother, strong in pro-
portion, hut with more delicacy of form, and a more
graceful activity. For a year they had lived so that their
health was maintained at its highest standard. The
mother avoided great fatigue and undue excitement.
What pleasure could exceed the satisfaction of a well-
born youngster, and what work was worth doing which
would injure the life making ?
So it was no event to he anticipated with feelings of
dread. Nature, though stern even to cruelty if her laws
be disobeyed, is most generously benignant to those who
attend to her demands, which are often in themselves
benedictions. There was no wresting the young life
from the grasp of Deatli —no passing through the Valley
of the Shadow for the desired one—but merely the strong
yearning for motherhood and the fulfilment of all desire.
He was born.
Another step upwards towards the Highest. A
youngster in whose veins good blood was flowing to
perfect the work so well begun. And the farmer, well
pleased with his looks, reckoned he had in him the
makings of one of the finest draught stallions, in that part
of the country anyhow.
Pity people don’t take as much trouble making a mere
man.


VICTORIA V&A
Co 11 ins & S wansfon S'? Melbourne Jr 2,
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
3955397 Hay St Perm It (1
QUEENSLAND
Queen ft Edward St? Brisbane^.
NEW ZEALAND
H6ft 143 Queen SL Auckland
lft-3 LambtonQuay.Wellington.
2365235 HighS*;
Princes 5 DowlingSt? Dunedinju*
I
sdfg
sdf
Ej6e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations." Compare the Prices and
Goods; then yoti will be folly satisfied.
Case containing' two Pearl Handle, Silver-Plated
Butter Forks, 14s 6d.
Solid Silver and Cut Glass Toilet Set, comprising- Puff Box, Hair Pin Box,
Salts Bottle, and Pomade Jar, £2 5s.
Solid Silver Manicure Set in Case, £2 6s;
Others from the 2 piece set at 11s 6d,
up to 12 piece set, £6 6s.
Child’s Silver-Plated Spoon and Fork in
Case, 7s Gd, others 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 12s 6d.
Solid Silver, 22s 6d.
Solid Silver Pencil, Pocket Knife and Cigar Cutter in Case,
12s 6d ; others at IGs tid and 25s.
Very Handsome Design Afternoon Tea Spoons
and Tongs, in Morocco Case, Best Plate, 27s 6d ;
Solid Silver, £3.
Solid Silver, Hand Engraved Salt Bottle, in Morocco
Case, 14s 6d ; larger sizes, 16s 6d, 21s, 30s.
SjK
Two Best Quality Silver-Plated Jam Spoons, in Case,
15s 6d ; others 10s 6d ; Solid Silver, 27s 6d.
Two Butter Knives, in Case, same Prices.
S. II
./m
rw-
,gsf;,:.-^.jj£3 f
1=
No. GlOB. —Solid Silver Manicure Set,
£2 15s.
No. 299A.—Solid Sterling Silver Afternoon Tea Service, in Case,
£12 10s.
Cut Glass and Solid Silver Communion
Set in Case, for the Pocket, £2 10s.
Two Solid Silver Salt Cellars with Two Salt Spoons
in Case, £2 12s 6d ; other styles, 18s 6d, 30s, 40s.
A1 Quality Silver-Plated Table Set. A very
useful Wedding Gift £2 7s 6d.
Bill
ifr“
6S23L,j?c«
llllllllllllllllliillllilffllllllllglllilllil
Child’s Solid Silver Cup and Spoon in
Morocco Case. Price, £2 15s.
No. G6611. —Presentation Set of 12 Pairs Dessert Knives and
Forks. Absolutely the Finest Quality of Silver-Plate,
with Pearl Handles, £8 8s.
Fine Quality Silver-Plated Pie Servers in Cose, 30s ;
others at 35s and 50s.
Best Silver-Plated Butter Knife and Jam Spoon in Case,
15s 6d; others 10s 6d ; in Solid Siver, 21s and 27s 6d.
No. 328—Child’s Spoon, Fork and Serviette
Ring, best Silver-Plate, in Morocco Case, 21s
■mu
*«/
f tf
4|/v-
Mm
aSHiittat
Six Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Spoons
in Case, 27s 6d ; others with the
Tongs, 40s, 45s, 50s, 55s.
Solid Silver Afternoon Tea Set in Case, £7 10s
others at £10 10s, £1110s, £12 10s,
No. G4873.—Fine Sheffield Shear Steel Carvers, with Tusk Handles, 37s 6d.
No. G8998.— Case of Six Afternoon Cake
Forks, Silver-Plated, 9s 6d.


A Lesson from the Ancients.
The Value of a Strong and Healthy Skin.
Ancient Rome, if she is to be remembered for the rich herbal balms of her gladiators and
athletes, equally deserves a place in our memories on account of the marvellous devices invented in
this bygone age for beautifying the skin and the complexion.
The discovery of the remains of a soap factory in the ruins of Pompeii came as a surprise to
many ; but history shows that the possession of a healthy velvety skin, free from skin disease, was
an ambition shared by both sexes.
With the invention of a refined soap, impregnated with similar soothing essences which have
made Zam-Buk balm famous the world over, the means are found for satisfying the craving for a
healthy skin far more than was possible in Caesar’s day.
There are many undoubted points of superiority which can be claimed on behalf of ZAM-
BUK SOAP, the first being the specific influence which it exerts upon the skin when afflicted
with itching or disfiguring disease.
A well-known physician says that the old-fashioned medicated soaps are worse than useless
to second the doctor in his efforts to overcome obstinate skin diseases, and frequently contain
certain tar or carbolic preparations, their effect being akin to common alkaline soaps, which only
aggravate the original trouble.
In Zam-Buk Soap we find neither tar nor carbolic acid, the soap being the product of newer
and improved methods.
Zam-Buk Soap, unlike any ordinary medicinal soap, reaches the seat of skin disease in a
natural manner. Its beneficial influence does not cease on application, but continues to be felt in
the deepest part of the ailing tissue.
gsd
The second claim for Zam-Buk Soap is its utility and economy as an every-day article for nursery,
toilet, and bath. Unlike ordinary toilet soaps, it is innocent of free alkali, and therefore suitable alike for
the horny-hand of toil and the sensitive skin of the babe.
Zam-Buk Soap is formed by the latest process out of the best ingredients, perfectly-balanced, and with-
out a flaw of any kind. It is the result of much labor, thought, and expense. Place a tablet on your own
washstand, and compare it with that kind you have previously been using.
Used regularly, it will speedily banish eczema on the hands, face, and scalp. It keeps disease distant.
For Eczema, pimples, blackheads, chaps, chafing, itch,
prickly heat, rashes, ringworms, scalp disease, and childish
ailments, sunburn, freckles, heat spots, and for the stings from
insects, Zam-Buk Soap is invaluable. Being non-poisonous,
Zam-Buk Soap may with perfect confidence be recommended
by doctors and nurses to second their treatment of obstinate
skin disease.
Zam-Buk Soap may be obtained from all Chemists or
Stores, or direct from the Zam-Buk Mfg. Co., 39 Pitt-street.
Sydney, N.S.W.
n -tt
«»
mm
*2
Cheap Soap Dangers.
Soon after you have finished drying your hands
and face on the towel, have you ever noticed an
unpleasant feel come over your skin ?
Pause, and think—what soap have you been
using.
When you wash with Zam-Buk Soap a
velvety smoothness and flexibility comes over
your hands and face ; a refreshed, invigorated
feeling that is welcomed by the housewife worn
out by the day’s toil, and the husband and father
returned from workshop or farm. After many
arduous occupations it is indescribably delightful
to have Zam-Buk Soap as an antiseptic and
penetrating skin cleanser.
o A Free Test Tablet. !
o We are prepared to send to any address a I
< ► sample test tablet of ZAM-BUK SOAP for use in the t
home. Out out this Coupon and send with Id. 2
~ stamp to the Zam-Buk Mfg. Co., 39 Pitt-street, f
j! Sydney. Inter-State letters must bear full postage. 2
Z Bulletin, Oct. 11th, ’O6. ♦
Business, Robbery, etc.
A Paris firm with an English name is flooding
Australia with literature, offering large fortunes at a
great sacrifice. The Continental and South and Central
American “premium bond” is the bait. You buy a bond
(at a premium, of course), and, though you get no regular
interest, you get a chance in the drawings of the pooled
interest. When a bond draws interest in that way, it is
repaid and cancelled—presuming that the concern that
issued it happens not to be insolvent or dead at the
moment. Obviously the older the bonds, and the
more numerous the drawings and repayments, the
less interest there is to pool ; so that the final
bond carries no interest except its own. Where
the “prizes” are of fixed amounts, the nearer the
final drawing the less the chance of getting back any-
thing more than, at best, face value. Even assuming
that the Paris firm with the English name is nailed down
at the address mentioned, what it is pushing off at this
farthest end of the earth (at a premium) are mostly the
tag-ends and remnants ; and the big early drawings are
being merely used as bait. Among other things, it care-
fully mentions the number of chances of a prize you get
every year by sending along £5O ; but, as it doesn’t men-
tion the number of bonds in existence, you can’t work
out the chances you have of drawing a blank. In that
respect it is a gamble in the dark—which is a bad place
to gamble in, especially when you don’t know the other
party. The man who sends his money that way, there-
fore, takes two very large and obvious risks (one with the
firm, and the other with the probably busted authority
that issues the bond); and his prize chances aren’t
g;ood enough to compensate for even one risk of half the
size.
* * # *
Milford, of Melbourne Age, is the head and
front of a movement to get the Australian Government
to establish a Fish Commission, which would control all
the things of Australian seas, the preservation of fish, the
turning of marine wealth which is now wasted into fer-
tilizer, &c., &c. The total annual value of such pro-
ducts is estimated at £9,000,000. The United States
Fish Commission claims to have increased the wealth of
Uncle Sam by £500,000,000 sterling in 30 years. The
Commission was appointed by reason of the alarming
decrease in fish supplies. In 1902 1,500,000,000 of young
fish were artificially hatched and liberated ; the cost of
the Commission was about £lOO,OOO. Salmon, shad, and
cod are again abundant, and the great lakes are fully
re-stocked. Australian waters do not call for re-stocking ;
only for discovery and use, and the proper distribution of
their products. Millions of fish spawn and die every year
in that great fishing ground 1300 miles long and 60 wide
from Broad Sound to Torres Straits within the reef ; yet
Australia annually imports £400,000 worth of dried and
tinned fish, the prices of fresh fish are prohibitive to
the average buyer, and the fisherman himself is never
without poverty. A Fish Commission with a strong jaw
and the ability to get its own way is badly required in
Australia.
* * * *
Recently (Sept. 19) a case was heard in the
Brisbane Police Court against a big drug firm. The
charge related to a glaring adulteration of lemon essence
with methylated spirits. Half-a-dozen different brands had
been seized, and in each methylated spirit was found. A
fine of £5 was imposed. Not a line appeared in the
Brisbane press concerning the affair, but a little two-
penny ha’penny Customs matter against a person of no
importance appeared in every paper.
* * * *
An old Australian firm-name cropped up
recently amongst company meetings in London—Spiers
and Pond. The pair, Felix Spiers and Christopher Pond,
commenced business in Melbourne, in the mid-fifties, in a
very humble fashion, in a Bourke-street cellar, known as
The Shakspeare (at the entrance was a portrait of William
Shakspeare). You could get a chop and a potato for
one shilling. Your “ half-pint of British ” was obtained
from Mooney’s bar upstairs. The refreshment depart-
ments at the old Theatre Royal, then barely five years
old, were kept in a very slovenly fashion. Spiers and
Pond obtained the lease, started the Caf6 de Paris,
and opened bars in the big entrance hall downstairs.
Then it was suggested that the ground-floor bars should
not be open to the general public ; that the really fine
entrance hall should be named “ the vestibule ” ; that
the bars should be attended by girls, all in black silk;
and that a bar-room should be set apart for the demi-
monde (which was done under the name of the
saddling paddock ”). Admission to the vestibule was
by refreshment ticket or theatre ticket. In 1860 Spiers
and Pond made their first big- venture. They sent their
book-keeper (Mallam) to England, and he brought
out the first English team of cricketers. Out of the spec.
S. &. P. made thousands. Melbourne was too limited for
their ambitions and business enterprise. They sold out
to Mallam and King and went to London, where, by
degrees, they became the largest catering firm in
Ensrland.
* * * *
“Taiwa” : Permit me to reply to “Maori
Mac’s” wail (30/8/’O6) re the alleged Maoriland Butter
Trust. I have been “on the ground floor,” in fact, in the
secluded cellar where the commissions are made. There
is no trust, combine, or arrangement between buyers, in
the Maoriland cow-grease trade. On the contrary, com-
petition is so keen that margins are now cut far below the
humble “eighth,” which was considered bedrock in the
Golden Age. The chosen race, with the exception of one
firm, leaves this branch of Private Enterprise carefully
alone, and the firm in question is hardly in the front
flight. The principal operators are gey Scotch, ye ken.
Furthermore, “Maori Mac” asserts that butter'of the
quality that sells locally (retail) at Is. Id. to Is. 3d. is
procurable in the City of Dreadful Fogs for lid. (pre-
sumably retail). Current London price, distributing, is
12Jd. Add profits of the distributor, wholesale man, and
the common grocer, and figure out how much is left out
of lid. Or put it this way—the largest Maoriland factory
has just sold its output for current season at lid. f.o.b.
M.L.
* * • *
“ J.A.C.”: The wool-flock bed of the poorer
classes occupied much time at the meeting of the Royal
Sanitary Institute, held in Bristol (Eng.) lately, and its
filthiness was a revelation. Peter Fyfe, Glasgow Sanitary
Inspector, stated that he had purchased four flock beds,
which had been in use, one in Glasgow and three in
Bristol. These he caused to be thoroughly rinsed in 40
gallons of pure water. The result was “in almost every
particular more full of offensive organic matter than crude
sewage.” Mr. Fyfe furt hersaid : “It is rather startling to
think that hundreds of thousands of persons in this realm
are nightly slumbering upon stuff which, after rinsing in
forty gallons of water, would produce a liquid which, in
respect of albuminoid ammonia and dissolved solids (to
say nothing of color), would not be allowed by law to be
put into any of our streams or rivers.” The flock, which
had been clumped in the rinsing, was “ re-devilled ” and
then sent to Dr. Buchanan, Glasgow Corporation Bacteri-
ologist, for examination. He found that 15J grains of it,
even after this washing, contained 131,000,000 bacteria.
And still the poets write beautiful verses about “ Sleep.”
* * * *
“Yarrum” : Last week, over the back gate,
our new baker inquired about my income, and I ven-
tured to ask how trade was with him. “ Doin’O.K.l”
he said. “Why, when I started—or, rather, when the
old man started me—two years ago, he wanted me bad to
take on groceries as well, but I said ‘No / ’ Me brother,
as is in the police, had been at the game, and he took on
groceries to his sorrow, as he went down over ’em. He
advised me in the matter, and I took his tip in preference
to the old man’s. The old fellow, if you can understand,
is ancient and a bit dotty. You see, the groceries
help to swell the amount of the bill, so that
the customer can’t part up all of it, and there is
mostly a balance. If you can understand, some
men can settle a small account where they can’t
a big one. Well, these balances keep on mountin’
up, until in the end there is nothing but bal-
ances, and the biz goes to pieces. As it is, I get paid
right up for my bit of bread ; and, as I’m sellin’ at 3d., I
manage to rub along, and stick up a cottage now and
again. Some people reckon we bakers have a ring, as
they call it, but I know nothing about rings. We just
agree to sell at a certain price, and there you are. No ;
if a man goes in for the bakin’, let it be bakin’, and keep
the groceries right out. You might be able and willin’
to settle your bread bill, with groceries, but then there
are others, and it is the others as count. Bread, at 3d.
the loaf with flour as it is, is good enough for this child.
Me brother, as is in the police, knows a thing or two ; but
the old man is fast qualifyin’ for the Upper House, if you
can understand.”
* * * *
With the awful example of Auckland City right
under its nose, Waitemata County Council (Maoriland)
has jobbed away a couple of tramway concessions to
private syndicates. One of these is a line to connect
Auckland and Lake Takapuna, and should be a regular
gold mine. The county council thinks it has made an
excellent bargain by stipulating that all profits above 10
per cent, on working capital have to be divided equally
between the council and the company. Evidently the
Waitemata County Councillors have a lot to learn about
the ways of Private Enterprise. That institution would
rather put all its shareholders on the salary list as extra
auditors, or hired inspectors of scenery, or supervisors of
fish-bait, than let the profits get above 10 per cent, in a
case of that kind.
» * * *
“S.H.” : Re the need of the Commerce Act,
here is one trick of the drapery business. Berlin wools
(for crochet and knitting work) are usually sold to the
public in Jib. and lib. packets. The manufacturers’
notice says: “These goods may be ordered in 14oz. cr
ltioz. lbs.” A 14oz. “lb.”is one of the bastard children
of “Private Enterprise.” For the extra-bold swindle-
merchant there are packets, called “ heads,” containing
12|oz. These are also frequently sold as lb. packets. As
to silks, some of our so-called silks contain about 30 per
cent, of tin. Mercerising is the trade term for this. In
measuring off a quantity of these silks one’s fingers be-
come almost black from the chemical compound with which
the material is doctored. Whether these tinny silks are
healthy on the human back I can’t say. Perhaps some of
our professors will advance them as one of the causes of
our declining birth-rate. Chicago gives us tinned-dog
horrors. England and Germany give us tinned silks.
* * * *
“ O’F.” : Once upon a time I used to conduct
the “interviews" for a considerably-advertised patent
medicine. In most cases I simply interviewed one of a
pile of photographs that the proprietor had on hand-
They were usually likenesses of the illustrious obscure,
but some portraits of fairly well-known persons had
slipped in, including those of the editor of a daily paper,
an M.L.A., and an actor. As in other cases, I invented
names and symptoms, and made the number of bottles
taken fit the appearance of the celebrity ; each man
took as much as I reckoned he could conveniently hold.
Drawings made from the photos, still appear with the
interviews in a pamphlet advertising the medicine. My
proprietor used to reckon that the editor’s testimonial
brought in more business than any of the others. But of
course he isn’t an editor in the pamphlet. He’s a
deserving bricklayer, and he was cured by taking a 28th
bottle after 27 had appeared to do him very little good.
Thus he warned others to keep on believing in our
marvellous medicine, even after paying for 27 bottles to
no purpose.
* * * *
A Melb. citizen wrote to one of the local dailies
lately complaining that if his young son, who works in a
boot factory, scratched a boot he had to raffle it among
his fellow-employees, and if he couldn’t get enough
members he had to make up the deficiency himself. The
parent was informed that the employer’s little caper was
wholly illegal ; but, of course, any complaint simply
means the boot —the other sort of boot.
» * * *
“C.F.S.”: The other day, a stately and venerable
party came down and said his brother-in-law was no
more (I don’t see how he could be much less). He (the
man, not the deceased) was anxious to have a kofin
(pardon me, but Roosevelt’s new spelling is very con-
fusing ; I meant a cophyn) sent down to Gippsland by the
4.35 steam vehicle, as the remains had to be used at once.
(I’m sorry ; I forgot this isn’t Chicago, and we don’t tin
the deceased here. I mean they had to be buried at once.)
He told us to send the coughin to Princes Bridge station.
It was a lovely koffin—silver fixings, handles, lining,
varnish, and all manner of devilments, and the price was
£lO. He produced a cheque for £l6, and as our firm
hadn’t the change in stock we sent over to the newspaper
office, and it was cashed promptly—instantaneous—dashed
sudden. The cauphin was sent down to the parcels office.
It was a beauty, as already mentioned, brass-bound, and
all that, and on the plate was, “Sacred to the memory of
John Jones, aged 46.” The parcels office man said, “ Wot,
another? There’s four here already.” And, sure enough,
there were five coffins in a row all sacred to John Jones.
Of course, the cheque was bad. They’d never heard of
the name at the bank. But we didn’t lose anything.
The boss smelt a rat, and fled to Gippsland by the same
train. He said he was the b’reaved relative, and took
delivery of the five coffins—his own and the other four—
and brought them back by night. They had to be sold at
a slight reduction, but they were good meat-boxes.
THE PEDDLKRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We peddle all the things of earth—for frenzied folk we are,
With many a way to work our wealth, and many a woe to
mar.
The difference between us all is merely of degree :
While I am robbing someone else someone is robbing me !
We put our faith in Self alone, with God and Man ignor’d,
Until at last we chance to fall, and then we trust the
Lord!
We deal in everything that’s used, from churches down to
cheese
(We’re civil, unimpeachable, and always strive to please !);
We peddle watches, shirts, and shoes, and jingles, jokes,
and jam
(I peddle prose and poetry while others peddle sham !);
We peddle mats, and motor cars, and axes, ads., and ale—
The world is just a trading house where Life is marked
“ For Sale ” !
The promises of Paradise by parson and by priest
Are peddled in the market-place each seventh day at
least:
“ We’ve haloes strong and beautiful, and guaranteed to
wear ;
They’re made for sinners and for saints—now, won’t you
buy a pair ?
Theology has fallen flat with one tremendous thud,
Excepting that which we expound—all other creeds are
Mud ! ”
The mission-monger of the isles is trafficking in hope ;
The hangman peddles sudden death, and grimly loops
the rope 1
The doctor peddles countless cures, the lawyer sage
advice—
We’ll sell you Self and all we own, and merely ask—our
price 1
Our goods are warranted to wear ; tip-top, and number
one—
And now’s the time for bargains, for the sale has just
begun 1
The writer in his study peddles parcels of romance ;
Amidst the thunder of the ring the bookie peddles
chance ;
And when the stream of human hate is roaring on a flood,
The soldier, in his finery, is trafficking in blood.
W e’ve trampled Heaven in the dust, we trade next door
to Hell—
But taste and try before you buy, for we are here to sell 1
The woman in the workshop sells her starving children’s
lives ;
The Chinky in the by-way peddles cabbages—and wives 1
The miner peddles, day by day, his steaming hunks of
toil;
The urchin deals in matches, and the millionaire in oil.
To ev’ry age its triumph, and to ev’ry man his trade—
For Earth’s a seething counter, where the “ lines” are all
displayed.
The juggler peddles mystery, the statesman peddles fame,
And in the shadows of the street Delilah peddles shame ;
The sculptor peddles chiselled stone, the painter peddles
scenes ;
And Ohutnee, in the restaurant, his spicy pork and
beans;
The actor peddles history from “ Trilby ” to “ Macbeth ” ;
Ihe undertaker down the street is trafficking in Death 1
We peddle all the things of earth, from Bibles down to
grog;
We’re universal traffickers—but, see our catalogue ?
Our goods are unimpeachable, the purest and the best ;
Your custom is solicited, and—we will do the rest 1
We sell, and cut each other’s throats : we triumph, and
we fail—
Ho, ho! the world’s a trading house, and Life a monster
sale!
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


TATTERSALL’S CONSULTATIONS.
(George Adams, Hobart, Tasmania.)
CAULFIELD CUP, Caulfield, Victoria, October 20
NEW ZEALAND CUP, Riccarton, Christchurch, N.Z., November 3
MELBOURNE CUP, Elemington, Victoria, November 6
MELBOURNE CUP, „ „ November 6
MELBOURNE CUP Special, Drawn Morning of Race, Elemington, Vic., Nov. 6 •••
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 10/4 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
100,000 at 5/2 each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE
On all Sweeps on Races run after JANUARY 1, 1905, the Tasmanian Government Stamp Tax will be 2d. on each
ss. Ticket, and 4d. on each 10s. Ticket. Clients must therefore add these amounts to their remittances.
The TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT has AUTHORISED the TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late GEORGE ADAMS to carry on ifl
LICENSE and conduct the Sweep business under same management as for several years past. Parcels may be forwarded through any
DELIVERY CO. doing business with HOBART, or money may be remitted through any BANK in Australasia.
NOW OPEN
TASMANIAN PARCELS EXPRESS DELIVERY CO.
281 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
97 Queen St., MELBOURNE .
98 King William St., ADELAIDE.
/Booking Fee,
J 3d.
I per Parcel.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
WORTH IN ONE ORDER
ELLIOTT BROTHERS. LIM
WHOLESALE DRUG6ISTS
AND DRYSALTERS.
... July. 24 th,
Mr. W. G. Hearne,
Chemist, GEELONG.
Dear Sir,
We have much pleasure in enclosing to you herewith our order
for £9,600 worth of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Our sales for this remedy have always been large, but at no time
has the demand been so phenomenal as at present. We believe this forms
the largest straight-out order for any Chest Medicine in Australia.
We heartily congratulate you on the splendid reputation and
enormous sale which Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure enjoys.
We are, dear Sir,
Yours faithfully,
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing
power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of Breathing,
Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to
those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a Complete Cure. It
is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and
it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Con-
sumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with
this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally
sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, is sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors,
and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.


fg
And Pneumonia are always ushered in by a Sudden Chill. The next
step is marked by a gradually rising Fever. The next by Sore Throat,
Hoarseness, Running Nose, Headache, Cough, Painful Breath-
ing, or Expectoration. Then you are at the critical turn. It calls
for action, also care in selecting the remedy to take ; because delay and
experimenting mean death by pneumonia or weakened lungs.
The RIGHT remedy, the BEST remedy, the SAFEST remedy,
the SUREST CURE is, without doubt,
Dr. SHELDON’i
NEW DISCOVERY
s
erth
srtes
A Father's Evidence*
Violet Town, Vic.
Sheldon Drug Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —My son was suffering
greatly from a severe cold on the
lungs, and a prominent Melbourne
physician said he would certainly
have consumption if he did not leave
the district. I bought him one
bottle only of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs, Colds and
Consumption, and he is now entirely
cured. I cannot recommend this
great remedy too highly, for to
us it has proved a great friend in
time of need.
Very gratefully yours,
(Sgd.) JOHN ROGERS.
Dr. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
For COUGHS, COLDS and CONSUMPTION Is a preparation that can bo
relied upon to cure all lung troubles. It has proved a blessing in
thousands of homes, and has been energetically endorsed by many
of the most prominent citizens and professional men in Australia.
Dr. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is not a cheap cough lozenge, or an
ordinary mixture, but a scientific discovery that will make sore
lungs well.
HOTE—In obstinate cases of chest complaints, Dr. SHELDON’S MAGNETIC LINIMENT will relieve
the congestion and materially assist the action of Dr. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY. This
Liniment will greatly assist in effecting a speedy cure If thoroughly rubbed on chest
and throat while taking the “ NEW DISCOVERY.”
Dr. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is sold everywhere at 1/6 and 3/- per
bottle ; Hospital size, 5/-, or will be posted upon receipt of price by
SHELDON DRUG CO., 15 O’Connell St., Sydney.
The Stowaway.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Look-out still frowns from the hill upon
the quiet Bay,
But round the ruined Longhouse now the
station children play,
And never do the whaling craft beat up for
Whangarei !
Yet sometimes from the Southern Head floats in
a moan, a sigh,
And sometimes, so the story runs, at eve a shade
flits by
To haunt the reach of sandy beach where yet the
cauldrons lie.
The sails were set, the wind blew wet, and, at the
dawn of day,
The gallant brig, Sir Richard Banke, sailed out
for Whangarei,
With all the whaling crew aboard, and me, the
stowaway!
And three days out, or thereabout, I left my
hiding place,
I tossed the red-gold hair aside that half-concealed
my face—
The storm that darkened all the sky held off a
little space.
The skipper he swore long and low, the mate
swore long and loud.
And all around, with wondering looks, the sailor
men did crowd.
But, ah ! my Love he turned from me, hands
crossed and forehead bowed.
“ What dost thou here? Hast thou no fear, thou
woman stowaway ?
And I, with all my crew aboard, out-bound for
Whangarei!
The first ship Sydney-bound we speak shall bear
thee back, I say ! ”
Across the angry waves it seemed, a whisper came
to me—
A wicked spirit muttered it, for evil things
there be —
“ There is no might of wrong, nor right, shall
keep thy Love from thee ! ”
I laughed “ Ho ! ho !” both long and low to hear
the skipper swear;
“ And can it be dost threaten me ? Look in my
eyes and dare ! ”
He looked—so might a ruined soul that sought
salvation there!
The cyclone burst, the rain came down. ’Twas
black as black could be;
The lightning flashed, the tempest lashed the
billows savagely,
And in that night of storm and fright a soul went
out to sea.
The tempest passed, the sea calmed down, we
saw the light of day ;
The mate who took the skipper’s place, with white
lips tried to pray,
"“May God have mercy on us all ’twixt here and
Whangarei! ”
The wind blew strong, we sailed along across a
dancing sea,
But evermore the sailor men looked at me evilly.
And day or night, or wrong or right, they kept my
Love from me.
And one, more bold, did love unfold, his arm stole
round my waist.
And in my locks of red gold hair his fingers
interlaced;
“ Oh, sailor ! have a care !” I said. “ Dream not
my lips to taste ! ”
I looked and laughed. He let me go, but fire was
in his eyes;
There was no mercy in my heart—l watched his
madness rise,
And wove my spell, and worked my will on all,
; enchantress-wise.
We sighted whales, and one that yielded thirty
barrels; then
The second cost the lives of three unshriven sailor
men ;
And, with fell looks fixed full on me, no boat was
launched again.
We neared the land; and through the straits we
sailed for Whangarei;
And still the sailors, right or wrong, did keep my
Love away;
And still I looked askance at them, and charmed
them day by day.
And south we sailed, and close to port (have
pity, by the Rood !),
They drew their knives in mortal strife; the deck
on which we stood
Ran rank and red with rubied blood—the scuppers
ran with blood.
The good brig drifted, drifted on; no ears, no
eyes had they
For seething surge, or rugged reefs that guard the
inner bay.
And I ? At last my hour was come ! Locked in
his arms I lay !
They fought in silence, man to man (have mercy,
God of Grace!),
In silence fought, in silence fell, held in a fast
embrace,
Till from the shambles rose three men—three men
in evil case.
Thev looked on him—they looked on me—they
looked upon the dead ;
Again the whisper came to me: “ I’ll steer the
ship,” I said ;
“ And keep her straight and anchor safe within
the Southern Head.”
The foam leaped white, the sun shone bright upon
a tossing sea;
We made the passage safe and sound, we sailed
right merrily ;
There was no might of wrong or right could keep
my Love from me.
We landed on the sandy beach where yet the
cauldrons lie,
And in the Longhouse bode awhile, the three, my
Love, and I
The Longhouse built by mariners on whaling trips
gone by.
But O ! the hate within their eyes in peaceful
Whangarei!
Three nights they watched and whispered low,
then at the dawn of day
They left to seek the Maori camp at Koromiko
Bay.
“We fear the woman witch,” they said ; “we fear
her wicked will.”
The sun uprose, and all the Bay lay wondrous
calm and still,
When all the three passed out of sight behind the
Look-Out Hill.
I bent his head, and kissed his eyes : “ Dear Love,
we are alone !
And, save for bird and forest-flower, this little
world’s our own ;
Nor might of man can part us now, nor power of
God unknown ! ”
He looked at me; and with that look my penance
was begun!
He flung me off like a loathsome thing men fear to
gaze upon.
A deadly silence held the air, a shadow crossed
the sun.
“ I curse thee for the powers of Hell that in thy
beauty lurk !
I curse thee for the doubly dead ! I curse thee and
thy work !
I curse thee with the undying curse of Christ and
Mater Kirk ! ”
With that there came a flash of flame, the sky
was red as blood,
Then split the rocks with thunder shocks, then
sank the earth we trod—
And with the curse upon his lips, his soul went
out to God !
There is no grace for me, condemned by him I
love so well :
Nor any place of rest. O, God ! ’Twixt sky and
earth I dwell.
The Gate of Heaven is barred to me, nor may I
enter Hell!
But as a Wraith, a homeless Shade, I wander
night and day.
Pray for the maid who sold her soul (as many
maidens may),
Who lost her soul and lost her loVe in lonely
Whangarei!
ENGLAND.
DORA WILCOX.
A Lachlan Flood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE bush is dry these days, and driving
through a swamp that is nothing now but
chains of yawning and empty gilgis, and
twisted gums, leprous with old water scars,
brought back a memory of a flood a few years ago.
The Lachlan, swollen with mountain rains, was
tearing ravenously at its banks and biting fiercely
its own sides, like a maddened dog. Before dawn
it was over the banks, which widened and spread
unrecognisably, and was pouring into the low-
lands. There is only one sound more awful than
racing fire, and that is the sound of miles of rising
water. By sundown the water was climbing high
among the gums, with the stealthy, shrill whisper
of a flood ; and it was just as the sun was burning
the gums to glory and flushing the hills, that, with
a high buggy for coach, and a notorious Lachlan
whip on the box, we came to the swamp which
blotted out the road.
An Indian hawker, camped on the rise, was
garrulous with horror, but we chanced it!
Horses hate rising water, and they capered on
their haunches, amongst the soft wash of leaves,
sticks and foam, for a few moments. Then we
were in. It was far more weird than anything
else I had ever known—grey water, miles of it, on
either hand, whispering stealthily (the flood has
a thousand voices); black shoals behind, and in
front a waste of desolation, broken only by
swirling eddies, above treacherous gilgis and
masses of floating debris. But our driver knew
instinctively where lay the twisting road that
wound, snake-fashion, to escape the gaping holes.
Too sharp a turn, and the hawker would tell the
news. Slowly the water rose, and the wide
whisper of its rising burst on our ears like the
ocean through sandhills. Red glowed the sky in
front, through which swirled great clouds of
purple and gold. The hill-tops were afire, their
sides lush with verdure; we alone seemed lost in
a desolation of waters. A great gum, some
hundreds of yards away, groaned, cried aloud in
agony, shivered, and, undermined, Heaven knows
how, settled and fell, sickeningly. A huge limb
crashed in spumes of foam and swung murderously
towards us, while a wave hit spitefully at our feet.
“Gee!” said our driver, while the off-horse
whimpered in fear. Our ears were throbbing
with the shrill of thousands of crickets, driven to
take shelter in the branches. A few logs, like
wallowing alligators, drifted dangerously by,
while the buggy lurched and swayed. Once I
almost felt the clammy flood at my throat, for the
vehicle lurched sideways, clung desperately and
righted. Next second we were on higher ground,
the water at our axles, and the frightened horses
floundering in the shallows. Again we were
crunching through the leaves at the water’s edge,
and I looked back into that place of whispering
shadows.
“ Guess,” said our driver, as we settled for our
long bush drive to the station, and he lit his pipe;
“ guess that hawker was wrong! ”
CABO.
Mace.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
INHERE were men from the four corners
S of Australia in the bar. Sheep kings with
a touch of Barcoo in their blood ; mine-
owners from the Towers, frock-coated, clean-
shaved, eager for devilment. In a corner sat
Thompson, playing dominoes with a lank-jawed
Monaro horse-breeder.
The talk was about King, Heenan, and Sayers,
and the new-risen world-beater, John L. Sullivan.
Mace was sitting near the passage whispering to
a reporter.
Tn those days the White Horse was the place
where the inflated athlete and travelling spieler
came to grief. The unemployed wrestler, the
derelict fencing master drifted in by turns, eager
to earn a few shillings.
The Scotch or Irish sailor, weary of the sea and
itching for fight, found it for the asking at Foley’s.
Canadian lumbermen, negro bar-smashers, entered
like lions and departed like mice. The boards of
the gymnasium were salted with the tears of
British and American athletes. And no man left
it with the shadow of foul play in his eyes.
The evergreen young squatter, with the wine of
the city in his good blood, would stalk in with a
procession of friends, demanding a “go” with the
best man in the house. His young muscles, his
big biceps and tremendous reach, were like so
many pounds of bread when pitted against the
quick and shifty professional.
Foley entered the bar suddenly, accompanied
by a white-faced Frenchman in high-heeled boots.
“One of the noo school of fighters,” he said,
introducing him briefly. “ Licked three English-
men at the Paris L’Ecole in eight minutes.
Fought ’em all together. What d’ye think of
him, Jem?”
Mace looked up and down until his eyes rested
on the tight-laced, high-heeled boots.
“Give him a beer and absinthe, Larry. The
gentleman looks thirsty.”
The Frenchman regarded Mace critically. “Ze
fist-fight no good now. Ze hands was made to
wash clothes en hold babies. It makes me laff to
see ze Engleese spar,” he said, sourly.
Mace appeared impressed. In the shift of an
eye he had measured the visitor’s abnormally long
legs. “You’re an up to-date foot-fighter, I sup-
pose. Reckon it’s a mule’s way of defence,” he
said, thoughtfully. “ A man’s at his best always
when both his feet are on the ground.”
The Frenchman raised his shoulders. His sharp
nose moved contemptuously. Then he winked at
Thompson, and the crowd laughed.
Mace looked nettled. “D’ye know what I’d
do if a man stood before me with one foot off the
ground ?” he said, gently.
“ Show the Frenchy he’s wrong, anyhow,” put
in Thompson, bluntly. “ I’ve heard you say that
a pair of good feet were as good as the best pair
of hands, Jem.”
“On the ground,” drawled Mace, “not in the
air.” He stood up and yawned, and it was
noticed that the Frenchman stood over him
six inches. “Bring your sky-fighter into the
gymnasium,” Ixjrsaid, lazily.
There was an immediate adjournment to the
rear of the hotel. The Frenchman seemed to he
chewing invisible insults as he followed the crowd
into the roped ring. His jaw hung sligtitly, but
from hip to throat he was flexible as a well-
tempered blade.
“Now, m’sieur,” began Mace, looking swiftly
at his man, “take off your boots, and keep your
socks on.”
“Watch him, Jem”—the billiard-marker stole
near the ropes where Mace was leaning. “ He’s
just out of quod for kicking a man’s face away.
Toes like iron.”
“ Stand away ! ” snapped Mace. In a flash the
ring was cleared. Mick Dooley prowled to a far
corner, watching every movement.
The Frenchman took off his boots slowly ; his
bright, quick eyes wandered over the crowd again
and again. “ Suppose I hurt ze man ? Ze peelice
lock me up ?” he asked, undecidedly.
“The police don’t come in here!” shouted
Foley across the ring. “Ifyezcan kick Jem’s
head into my hat, I’ll throw in a quid for drinks.”
Mace threw aside the 4oz. gloves offered him,
and walked slowly across the ring. The French-
man stood like a swimmer about to plunge from a
great height, his hands held stiffly above his head.
‘ ‘Time !” coughed Larry. “Look out for the
kicking strap, Jem.”
Mace walked leisurely round and round the
rigid, statuesque Frenchman. Suddenly he found
himself facing monsieur’s long straight back. The
back followed like a revolving pole.
“If I’ve got to chase your face,” began Mace,
good-humoredly, “ I’ll ”
Three feet of leg uncoiled itself in the air. A
stockinged foot smote his chest with a dull bang.
The Frenchman pivoted aside, grinning.
“ Good shot, m’sieur,” laughed Thompson.
Mace half-bounded forward, feinting with his
right. A large foot swung and wagged within an
inch of his nose. Slapping it half-playfully with
his lightning left, he stood away sparring
cautiously.
The Frenchman pirouetted gracefully on both
feet, then, with cat-bke ease, he sprang to the level
of the ropes, and kicked with brutal skill at the
face in front.
Mace caught the flying heel on his shoulder,
straightened like an acrobat, and double-chopped
the foot with his short, terrible left.
A long-drawn howl filled the gymnasium.
Flung to his knees, the Frenchman writhed like a
hurt wolf, nursing his right foot in both hands.
“Ah, hell! Why you hit me like zat?” His
lips grew r livid with pain. “ Mon Dieu ! I nefar
survive ze agony. Ah’r ! ” He rolled himself
into a ball, biting the air.
Thompson gave him some brandy and a hand-
ful of silver. Mick Dooley and the barman
carried him from the ring.
“ Big toe,” said Mace, sorrowfully. “ A punch
under the ball and a chop on the joint. A bare-
footed Dago kicked me once, and I didn’t forget
it. These ballet dancers have got too much faith
in their feet. Mine’s a whisky, if you don’t mind,
Mr. Foley.”
ALBERT DORRINGTON.


It is Fatal to Neglect Kidney Complaint
Because Kidney Complaint can never get well of
itself, and, if neglected, ends in the Fatal
Bright's Disease, or Diabetes.
The little leak, neglected, sinks the
mighty vessel; the tiny spark, neglected,
causes the tierce conflagration; the
seemingly trifling symptom of kidney com-
plaint (such as backache, urinary disorders,
gravel, irregular action of the heart, swell-
ing of the limbs, nervousness, languor,
headache, dizziness, cold hands and feet,
sallow complexion, &c.), leads on to the
fatal Bright’s Disease, dropsy, diabetes, and
other advanced kidney disorders.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
Should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong. . . .
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or indirectly
through kidney weakness or inflammation;
they drive out the uric acid that irritates the
kidney membranes and clogs the passages.
Doan’s Pills have been in use for the past
seventy-five years ; they help the kidneys
in their great blood-filtering work, and give
tone to the whole Kidney organism.
Doans
Backache
Kidney fc
iJPills/i
"Every Fictwre Tells a Story.”
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. Dellunga, 138 Campbell-street, Surry Hills, this city,
says:—“l can strongly recommend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
for kidney ailment. This remedy has proved very good in my
case. I suffered with the kidneys for a long while, and used
various remedies without success until I got these pills. I
suffered with severe pains in the small of my back, also with
headaches, giddiness, and flushes of blood to the head. My
eyesight was misty—indeed, I could scarcely see across the
street. lam not one to give in to an illness, but try to fight
against it; however, there were some days when I would not
be able to get up. A friend of mine, who had used Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills with splendid results, urged me to try
them. At length I did get them, but only after much per-
suasion, and when I used them I derived so much benefit that
I regret I did not use them the very first time they were recom-
mended to me. Had I done so, I would have been saved a lot of
suffering. Three boxes cured me, and it is some time since I
used them, and I am still well.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mrs. Andrew McDonald, 3 Cheltenham-street, Balmain,
says : —“ Three years ago my husband was very bad with a lame
back. All the time he did no work, his back was so crippled.
He always reckoned that it was caused by the kidneys. He
was occasionally free from pain, but sometimes he could scarcely
get out of bed in the mornings, feeling, he would say, as if he
were gone in the loins. Mr. Smith, next door, was always
telling him to get Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and he did
get them at last. These pills did him so much good that he was
able to start work, and has been working regularly ever since.
At the worst of times he has very slight pains now, but mostly
none whatever.”
Mrs. McDonald makes a further statement, three years later.
She says: —“My husband never has backache now; he was
cured three years ago, and has been quite well ever since. My
son Andrew used them with great success since I made the above
statement. He had very severe backache, and two boxes cured
him. He has had. no sign of the ailment for eighteen months
now.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per box (6 boxes,
15/3), or will be posted on receipt of
price by FOSTER-McCLELLA N CO.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. W.
gdfhs
Backache
Kidney
rt
The Bells of the Ships at
Anchor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HE hours march steadily onward,
And the town clocks, half-awake,
Thunder a clamorous warning
Till the solid clock-towers shake.
“ We saw an Hour slink westward,
We shouted, and it slipped by,”
And the bells of the ships at anchor
Quaver a sweet reply :
Dong ! Ding-dong l
Where the moonbeams
Scatter before the wind—
Ding ! Dong-ding l
At their moorings,
With shells and seaweed twined.
We saw the Hour march bravely through —-
Did the clash of its harness waken you ?
When the steamers swing from their moorings,
Thrilling with life within,
And swagger out to the ocean
To battle and storm and din,
Their bells may ring in the passing,
And, full of a longing keen,
The bells of the ships at anchor
Chime for Hours that have been :
Dong ! Ding-dong !
There is yearning
And wistfulness in their tones.
Ding I Dong-ding !
How the anchors
Quiver among the stones !
Here’s good luck 1 May you all win through /
The Hours are racing astern of you.
They call so clear in the darkness,
When the clock-bells wake and cry :
“We saw an Hour creep westward ;
In terror we made it fly.”
Ah ! the bells of the ships at anchor
Are braver than all the rest,
For the ocean gave them courage
When she fondled them on her breast.
Dong! Ding-dong !
Where the moonbeams
Break and scatter and fly ;
Ding Dong-ding !
At midnight
A great, black Hour went by
In silver harness with sable cloak :
It sang in its marching, and you awoke.
O, bells of the ships at anchor,
A mile from the busy town,
That chime when the dawn comes rosy
And toll when the sun goes down !
There’s the beat of the sea in your music,
And your lonely ringing tells
That the Hours you sturdily challenge
Bring nothing for you, oh, bells !
Dong l Ding-dong !
They answer
When the great clocks crash on high—
Ding ! Dong-ding /
At daybreak
A maiden Hour tripped by.
In cloth of gold, with eyes of blue.
Did a ripple of laughter waken you ?
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Spider’s Parlor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE business of a certain Sydney shop
is founded upon abduction and piracy. I,
pausing to look into its window’, was taken
firmly by the ear and dragged, despite my cries,
into the darksome cavern of the doorway. “Socks
for this gentleman,” said my captor to the accom-
plice at the counter. He threw me into a chair
and departed for further prey.
The counter-person blandished—ye gods ! how
he blandished ! From ear to ear. Withal, he
was quite in earnest ; his suggestion was plainly
of the mailed fist. In vain I pleaded that I was
an orphan ; in vain I declared that I never wore
socks. He brought down from the shelves socks,
and socks —and SOCKS. I never thought there
were so many nor such poisonously-colored species
of socks in the world. He selected three pairs of
puce ones with chaste green spots.
“Very stylish,” he said. “You’ll take these,
then ? ”
“ I won’t,” I shrieked. “ I won’t; I WON’T.”
But he put them aside. “ Now you want a
tie,” he declared, cheerfully. He chose two for
me, cerise ones. Also a pair of trousers, a hat,
and an overcoat, “slightly damaged by salt
water.” Besides these, an affair like an abbrevi-
ated shirt, calico, with narrow lace on the arms—
I don’t know what it was, but it was a queer
garment.
“ Is that all ? ” he inquired.
But I had recovered a little. “ No,” I said, “I
want a mustard-plaster.”
“Don’t stock ’em here, sir,” he said, pityingly.
“ This is only a drapery shop—er—things to
wear, you know.”
“ Well, one wears mustard-plasters. I’d rather
wear ten of them than these.” I pointed to the
socks. “ You don’t sell revolvers or axes either,
I suppose?”
He became mildly astonished at that, and indi-
cated, with difficulty, that such were to be
obtained at the ironmongery store, three doors
lower down.
“ I feel rather dazed, you know ; my head isn’t
quite right,” I tapped my forehead.
He nodded sympathetically, tying up my
“ purchases.”
“My family failing,” I confided. “My poor
frandfather was hanged for killingashop-assistant.
t was an infamous thing to hang him, for he was
quite mad.” I saw his fingers tremble. “And
my uncle,” I continued, “ killed a warder in the
asylum. I myself often feel Er, by the way,
you said three doors further down, I think?”
“ N—no, sir— seventeen,” he gasped.
“You said three.” I gnashed my teeth at him.
He hung on to the counter to save himself from
falling. • “I hate liars,” I went on. “They’re
better dead. Well, I’ll be back in a few minutes
for these things. And—between you and me—
I’ve taken a huge dislike to that man who showed
me in here. I’d hate to make a mess in the shop,
so don’t warn him. And you told a lie, didn’t
you ? ”
. I walked to the door muttering and scowling
like Pietro Moroni when he is called a “Dago.”
Once I turned my head, and caught his white face
peering at me in a passion of trembling fascina-
tion, reminding me of a pallid spider who has
unwittingly caught a wasp in her web. His
weak eyes followed me from the half-dusk of his
lurking place, behind that polychromatic confu-
sion of socks, until the sunlit pavement took me
mercifully from their sight.
HOWARD ASHTON.
The Flesh Pots.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIOLET BHITTEN took the two
u
letters and spread them side by side on
the ricketty table; the ardent love-letter
of Tony Lang, and the business-like proposal of
the Honorable Hubert Jardine.
Each letter was characteristic of the writer.
, , . . . . .
The trim, close-written sheets of foreign note
were redolent of Tony, and Violet sighed whim-
sically over their blots, exclamation-marks, and
high-flown allusions. Tony thundered Love with
a capital L, and a—- Violet tobin,.
He was the man for her, and would make her
happy, despite liis poverty. His arms would be
her refuge against the world, though she would
have to go slow with her tram-fares. A bank-
, , .f, . , /• • ,i ,i
clerk, with less prospect of a rise than the sun on
a winter s morning, he had no visions of a golden
future; but Love would atone for all. . . “Love
and I call,” cried Tony, “come to us, Violet!”
and he added a P.S. to the effect that he’d
~ . ■» i j
“ stand no more philandering with that damned
fish, Jardine !”
Jardine’s epistle was penned on stiff, cream
paper, correctly crested and dated. He touched
lightly on his income, and Violet’s position in
. / . . , , , . , . ..
society in the event of her becoming his wife.
Incidentally he referred to his love, and, with the
request that Violet would give the matter careful
consideration, signed himself, hers faithfully,
Hubert Jardine.
lony, Jardine, counted Violet on her fingers.
"Tony, Jardine, Tony, Jardine, Tony, Jardine,
Tony—Jardine! My poor old Tony !
“If I married you ” (she addressed the vellum
letter) “ I’d ride easy and lie soft. I’d know smart
women, and wear exquisite frocks, and entertain
with the best of them. I’d have splendid jewels,
a maid, unlimited theatre tickets, and all the
luxuries of the season. I’d have a woman to tend
my hair, and another to manicure my nails. A
housekeeper, a gardener, a library subscription, a
horse, and a private hansom. And such tiny,
trivial luxuries as morning tea, hot baths, and
good scent, which count most of all! You spell
books, music, pictures, travel, and interesting
people—all I ve longed for since I could toddle.
That s for yow, Mr. Jardine. Now for Tony
Her eyes deepened, and a lovely flush rose in her
cheeks. Her arched mouth (the mouth Tony
likened to a red June rose) quivered, and her
pretty head, with its crown of auburn plaits,
drooped pensively.
“If I married'you” (she picked up Tony’s
flimsy screed and softly kissed it) “I’d become a
drudge, a poor, shrivel-fingered, hard-eyed, nagging
drudge, who wears down-at-the-heel shoes, home-
made frocks, and shabby gloves. My voice would
grow shrill with beating down tradespeople, and
my hands coarse with sweeping and ironing, and
Tony would find fault with my puddings, and I’d
spoil my eyes with crying. I’d have to ride in
trams, and wash up dishes, and pander to Tony’s
rich relations, and it’s not good enough ! 1 So good-
bye, Tony !”
As she pronounced Tony’s doom, a shaft of sun-
shine pierced the thin curtains and lit on Violet’s
glorious hair. She lifted her face with a little
sob, and sudden tears glistened on her lashes.
“ ‘ Love and I call,’ said Tony, and I can see
him write it, with his eyes flashing, and his mouth
longing to kiss me. How divinely Tony makes
love. The mere way he takes one’s hands sends
thrills up one’s spine. But—one can’t live on
thrills.” Violet shut her lips on another sob, and
resolutely dried her eyes.
She had scarcely finished tucking her handker-
chief into her belt before steps echoed in the hall,
and Tony burst into the room, nearly knocking
over a scandalised housemaid.
“ Kiss me, Vi,” he shouted, dramatically—
“kiss me, and give me joy, old girl, for I’ve
wonderful news. The bank’s given me a rise of
fifteen pounds, and there’s nothing to prevent us
getting married to-morrow. Why don’t you
speak '! Aren’t you glad ? Why, Vi, what the
deuce is up with you ?”
“Fifteen pounds! What’s fifteen pounds,
Tony?—a mere bagatelle! Hubert Jardiue
makes twice fifteen hundred, and has private
means as well. And, perhaps it’s only fair to tell
you, I’m going to —marry —Mr. Jardine, Tony.”
Tony dropped her hands, and the elation faded
from his face, leaving him a worn old man.
At length, “You’re—going—to—marry—Jar-
dine ? ” his dry lips uttered, mechanically. “ Jar-
dine ! That fish, Jardine, at whom you so often
sneered. My God, Violet! ”
Violet shrank from his white face and flashing
eyes. She even seized his hand and pressed it
remorsefully against her cheek.
“Don’t misjudge me; don’t misunderstand
me,” she stammered. “Indeed, I mean to be a
good wife to him. I’ve never had a decent frock
in my life. Oh, Tony ! Tony ! ”
He wrenched his cold fingers from her clinging
ones.
“Keep your heroics for Jardine,” he replied,
passionately. “You’re a false woman, Violet!
False to me, Jardine, and yourself. I could
almost find it in my heart to hate you.”
“ Tony, you hurt me. You’re cruel.”
Without any warning, he snatched her jealously
to his breast.
“ Violet, you love me ? Say it.”
“I won’t! Let go! You’re brutal! Let go,
Tong! ”
“Kiss me, Vi.”
She swayed towards him, and then shrank back,
sickened by his frayed collar and wispy tie.
“ I can’t! ” she groaned. “ I can’t give up my
flesh pots. Well, just once for luck, Tony.”
But he flung her off with an oath and rushed
madly from the room, leaving Violet with her
arms extended.
* * * •
A month later Violet married Jardine, and she
lived happily and never regretted. But she
realises sometimes that she would have wedded
Tony after all—but for that frayed collar.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.


This is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
lady residing at Ealmain, N. S. W., whose portrait
is also given.
“Som§ time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out I
would become so ill I would have
to go into a neighbor’s house 7
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
£
K
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you s;et
AYER'S Sarsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DK. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
sgf
Colored and Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets,
each containing 6 of our colored and high art Post Cards to
sell for us at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards re-
turn us our 65., and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By;
continuing the sale of our cards you can earn a Ladles’ or
f Silver Watch and Chain ; a Photo Camera
bs
F
R
E
E
for use ; Silver Hair Brushes, and other exquisite and choice prizes. Re-
member, we want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
satisfaction. We take all the Risk. You oan return the cards if not sold. We have
no connection with any other firm. We are the largest dealers in post cards
• a ’ and IW 6 ou L, Jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal offer. Be
the first in your district. _ Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. Every month we
ar ?fV a "«‘Pg and improving our post cards, which are all copyright and cannot be ob-
tained elsewhere. Our illustrated gems of Australian poets, Lindsay Gordon, Patterson,
Our Aotrkss Series is a collection of popular artists, comprising Grace
Palotta, Sarah Bernhardt, Nellie Stewart, and many other artists renowned for their
talent and beauty. Our London Series contains world famous historic London buildings.
Uur prizes give full satisfaction and are as represented in illustrations. We refer to anv
trade agency, or t Q our many well-pleased agents. We have thousands of testimonials
having built up our large business by giving full satisfaction to all.
REGAL POST CARP CO,. BK O’Connell St., Sydney, N.S.W.
//&
m
ww
mm
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
If test improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS .FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of P.heumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Liv« .and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Or. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOMECUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
■ PARISIAN SPECIALIST..
m£,?.£ BONSKI * showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUbLES,
jsjjjkty* an< * their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—■
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh SL,
S^rZDIEJ-lE-X-.
DEAF
The New Patent
SOUND DISCS
iCompletely overcome Dxafness
land HeXd Noises, no matter of
|how long standing. Are the same
to the ears as glasses are to the
'yes. Invisible.. Comfortable.
Worn months without removal.
Explanatory Pamphlet Free.
Address A. M. NABT, 145 Collias St,, Melboora*
Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks fay the use of
Q 6 R PC OjR O s
C,sS&t* cE °f u y F£•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rioord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Ce., 47 Queen
8t Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldlngr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
•P®®“Y ot Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cnred thousands
had lost ali hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth!
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don't pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we chares
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
TO BE FIRST
Is to occupy an enviable position. Many aspire for first place,
but few attain it. To acquire the lead, aspiration and push
alone are not sufficient—merit is required. This is exactly why
BIICHAMS PIUS
stand fcremost among medici es—they possess real merit, and have proved
themselves worthy of a permanent, position in the family medicine chest,
Trial purchasers become regular users, because they find nothing to equal
BEECH AM'S PILLS for dispelliig
BILIOUS & NERVOUS DISORDERS, INDIGESTION,
SICK HEADACHE, LANGUOR,
and other such troubles which arise from a Disordered Stomach.
They regulate and tone up the entire system. The genuine worth cf
BEECHAM'S PILLS has obtained for them the unique position of having
the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in the World.
THE SALE EXCEEDS SIX MILLION BOXES ANNUALLY.
Sold everywhere In Boxes, price ///J (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
rtbs
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-incli Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulas printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and yon will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable Arm, and we will present £lO in cash to anvone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Eiectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Xi£ZZi
Free
a WeeK
Given
Away
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
J9L Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURB, will
forward the same, free o» charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
eth
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in
hours without
incon-
Each Capsule bears the name
set
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
colleetionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
c HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodvne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for COOGHS, COLDS,
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
DIARRHCEA, &c. bears on the
Government Stamp the name of
the Inventor
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS Of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ON THE HOP
The Finest Book of illus-
trations ever issued in
Australia.
Three Hundred of ** Hop’s ” Pictures superbly produced.
PRICE 21s.
WWA UNIQUE AND LUXURIOUS GIFT.
33R. MARTIN, M.D., Consulting Physician, &c.
MEN and WOMEN SUF-
FERERS, if you have failed
to find relief elsewhere, if
you are despondent, and des-
pair of ever being cured,
CONSULT DR. MARTIN.
He is the Best Authority
on all Diseases of rien and
Women. His successes in
Chronic and so-called In-
curable cases have gained
for him the LARGEST CON-
■OtF-
mem
NO
w OMEN
SULTING PRACTICE in the
Commonwealth.
DR. MARTIN’S long- ex-
perience as a CLINICAL
SPECIALIST in the Hospitals
of Europe has made his
judgment infallible on Pri-
vate, Nervous, Blood, Skin,
and Genito Urinary Diseases.
He has NEVER FAILED to
Permanently Cure any case
he has undertaken.
Free to All
A 50-page specimen copy of DR. MARTIN’S great work on the DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN ; Contains 34 Illustrations and Colored Plates. Write to-day for it. Posted Free
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“THE DISEASES OF MEN AND
WOMEN AND THEIR HOME CURE,”
May be had from all Booksellers, PRICE 7/6: or if you
apply to him now, a copy will be POSTED FREE’for 3s
This magnificent medical work contains 692 pa<>es Crown
® vo.,' over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and'l93 Ulus
trations, with beautifully Pour-Colored Plate.
“ELMLEY HOUSE,” 151 ELIZABETH-STREET, HYDE PARK, SYDNEY
(Please Mention this paper when writing.)


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar.
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flow ers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no betMr Kose than ours.
Sene/ for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
stood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET . SYDNEY.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price ©d.
Posted 8d
HARDY’S
bs
TINTARA
WINES. .
700 Prizes. Sydney, Melbourne, and Adelaida.
“THE WONDER”
AIR HAMMER
DRILLS...
Sole
Agents—
W. and J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST
MELBOURNE
-and at —
64 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY .
Wonder Drills are essentially “ONE MAN” ROCK DRILLS.
Require only 25. CUBIC FEET of free air per minute compressed at about 801bs. pressure.
VERY SIMPLE AND EXTREMELY STRONG."SP® Particulars on Application.
The ORIGINAL and BEST AIR HAMMER PERCUSSION ROCK DRILLS.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.
Mining Machinery, Steam Engines and Boilers,
As well as
tbs
STOCK
CO
CD
eg
CO
bJ3
CO
o
CD
c
'sb
s
LU
F CO
P
Wood Pulleys
Shafting
Hangers
Plummer Blocks
Collars
Couplings
Drills
Reamers
Wrenches
Valves Valves Valves Valves
Oster Stocks and Dies and Taps, Crane Hinged Pipe Vyces, Emery
Wheels and Grinders, ail kinds of Lubricators, Starrett Fine
Mechanical Tools, etc., etc., etc.
write for Prices to 60 Clarence-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can he obtained of all Chemists in
A ustralia and New Zealand.
OUR NEW STOCK OF
SPRING SUITINGS
Has arrived, of which we cordially Invite
an Inspection.
DAVID BRAHAM& CO.,
94 KING ST. (between George & Pitt Sts.),
HIGH-CLASS TAILORING
in all its branches, including Ladies’ Work.
HATTERS CSL MERCERS.
Stocking only the products of the Leading
Manufacturers—and Sole Agents in N S.YV.
for the well-known
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS AND NIGHTWEAR,
And Underclothing of every kind for both Ladles
and Gentlemen.
Call and inspect, or write for Samples, Price Lists,
&c., post free.
On the Trail
Of the Trust
By “Bulletin” Writers,
The Book is adorned . . .
By “Bulletin” Artists.
IT CONTAINS A DOZEN COOP YARNS —ALU.
POINTING to the NECESSITY of PROTECTION.
It’s Worth 1/3
Which is the Price Post Free from this Offios.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
rtb
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
So!
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 2/-
Stag Handle • ■ ■ 2/6
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDHTBY.
drg
AND ALL ACCESSORIES.
SEND FOR PRICE LIST to
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER COY.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. •
BILLETTS latent HOT Al R TUYERE
Effects a saving: of at
least 25 per cent, in
your coal bill.
Heats the iron in one-
third less time.
Possesses many other
advantages over the
old water tue iron.
BILLETT’S
PATENT TUYERE
MOUNT MORGAN COLD CO. writes:
" We have proved these Tuyeres
to be an excellent invention. Every
smith's fire on the works is now
fitted with one. We can testify
that they do even more than is
claimed for them. ”
To be had of all Hardware Houses.
SOLE LICENSEES—
N.GUTHRIDCE LS
