

m
EXCELLENT IN
EVERY WAY
WIF H I
|CS=
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Mining Requisites
® - —~ NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
TT'VTir nciTVIT'Q ■RTTTT.TVRIRM
(rfINKR, ATi IRONMONGERY,
503 GAS, STEAM and OIL ENGINES SOLD
EEPBART.
—— ”
[adSey’s Orient |ot6l.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
m
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowicl & Son. Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON. BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sole Agents for
Ruston’s Portable
STEAM ENGINES,
Fitted
with
lIVI PRO VEIVIE NTS
ENGINE PARTS MOUNTED, on Machined Steel Seatings, Patent Steam Stay. Improved Expansion Eccentric for
Economising Steam. w
Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*
Take it back,
I must have -
m
Pine Apple Brand
CHUBBS
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
JlaticnaL
fiftE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prumpt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). jy. GIBB, Manager,
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted. “®I
u ~£L fy&t.
ds
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
COLDSBROUCH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
śgd
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
1
ďg
sd
ds
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
Trade Mark.
Regd
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
-
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
V AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION PRESSES
\ -*-V
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, -Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
śd
The Bulletin.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1415.]
[Thursday. March 28, 1907.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


■jrui
new
BOOKS
CASTLEREAGH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Weale, Indiscreet Letters from Peking, 7s fid, post fid.
Croker, 8.M., Spanish Necklace, clot h 3s fid, post firl.
Dale, History of Bnsrlish Oonjrrejrat ionsdLni, l'4s post.
Kirrer, Literary Forjieries, 8% postage < d.
Handbook of the British Colonial Empire, 3s, post fid.
WHISPERING SMITH,
Hinton, Photo. Development Made Easy, Cs posted.
Walker, How to Make Up Garments, 3s’(id, post Bd.
Cornish, Animal Artisans, Bs, postage 6d.
Gaims, Loco. Compoundingand Superheating, 10s, p. Bd.
Kelynaek, Tlie Drink Problem, !)s, post Bd.
A Novel by F. H.
SPEARMAN
ter of
Lxeiting, grap i.e, f s■ ’ <•! adventure by field ami forest, and of hard riding, and deadly gun plav
tne reader's attention is not aMowul to flag an instant,.” ' ‘ ’
CLOTH, COLORED ILLUSTRATIONS 3s 6d, Fostage 6d extra.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and aii Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption,
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
D
.VUJDSO n.
:
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR HUDSON’S- TaKe no Substitute, SOLD JN TINS, 1 G.
May be taken daily by eld and young-. Their Antiseptic properties prevent .Abnormal Sole
*wt ».nH are Urns hateful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post fie* 1 , _ ~
The RED PAGE
THE MAN AGAINST THE POST
TO one whose habit of leaning against a
post has become proverbial, the pro-
fession of epigrammatist seems pecu-
liarly appropriate. To lean languidly
against a post and pass remarks upon Aus-
tralia—that weary swagman humping along
the well-worn track of nations his awkward
and tremendous bluqy, a sundowner hope-
fully and paradoxically toiling toward the
sunrise—is a polite occupation that would
especially appeal to the Australian. And the
request for epigrams upon Australia has
stimulated no less than sixty-five post-sup-
porters to hurl remarks at that passing swag-
man. Parenthetically, as “Leonardo”
points out, there is something to be said for
the post-buttressing habit: before the Aus-
tralian could" lean against a post, he had to
put up a post to lean against !
This looks epigrammatic, but obviously is
no epigram. It has the crack of the whip,
but is slovenly handled. “ Leonardo ” takes
nine lines to say what should have been put
in four. He might have got nearer epi-
grammatic terseness if, for instance, he had
put it thus : /
John Bull, in his grandfather’s easy chair,
May laugh at the post that I’m seen against;
But while he was loafing, firm and square
I planted the post that I lean against !
Or, emphasising the contrast, thus :
His toiling fathers built that grey old wall
That John Bull, resting, may be seen against;
’Neath my verandah I care not at all :
I planted first the post I lean against !
J*
On the whole, the trudging swagman has
come well out of that running fire of com-
mentary from the little knot of loungers
against the posts of the pub. verandah.
Occasionally his feelings have been hurt
when someone, as in this epigram by
“ Semicolon,” hurls at the stranger an
unwarrantably heavy brick
Australia is bounded by the Pacific and Indian
Oceans, and unbounded by its own conceit.
But the epigrammatists, while observing
the weaknesses of Australia, do not alto-
gether despair of him. The tolerant point
of view of that group of loungers has been
aptly suvnmed-up by “ Poimena”
I dunno wot’s a Eppy Gram—I dunno that I care ;
It seems no sorter use, as I can see.
I've never left this country, in which I holds a
share.
Orstralian land is goodemiff for me.
Bat as ther Red Rag’s arsked us to do our little
bit ;
And show them other blokes as we’re all rite,
I gives yer my conviction, and I fancy it’ll fit,
Tuat wot. Orstralia wants is— Lots cr Skitc.
Ther Yank's no fool at telling wot ’Murka’s going
to do ;
Ther Britisher can also flute it strong ;
And when them two gets goin’, it makes a feller
blue,
Fer no one squeaks Orstralia's little song.
So Task yer when yer writin’ (and mind yer rub
it in),
Don’t smoodge ’em, if yer are afraid of gore.
Tell all ther tired readers of yer Crimson Bulletin,
Orstralia, is a, land, to barrack fore !
The epigram is evidently a somewhat un-
considered form to Australian critics. Several
• competitors forwarded the qx instead of the
bovril, and handed us a whip that wouldn’t
crack. “Syd. C., : ' “ Erin,” and May Siede
furnish examples of the long-windedness that
is fatal to an epigram. An epigram ought
almost to gasp for breath. May Siede has got
hold of an /idea, but it is not worth eight
lines.
W.H.D. gets nearer the form; but is too
laborious :
But thou, disdaining ancient whims
(The days of miracles are o(er) #
The fetters that once bound thyiimbs
Hast helped to rivet on the Boer.
It takes “Seaweed” eight long lines to
remark that Australians are the owners of a
great white jewel whose setting is insecure ;
while “ Will Fay ” condenses so much that
he forwards a long addenda of elucidation of
his opinion that Asia is the puss to Aus-
tralia’s mouse.
**
And as the sundowner slouches into the
bar he hears a few more comments upon
himself, none of which cause him any con-
cern.
Because Australia is “the devil I know,” for me
its aspect is angelic.
G.S.T.
* * * *
Australia is best appreciated by those who have
been away looking for something better.
G.S.T.
* * * *
Australia, the Land of Promise—when the
Promissory Note period has passed.
Huffin-Guffin.
Australia is a slice of bread, whereof the white
mice have only nibbled at the crust.
Semicolon.
* * # *
Norman Lilley has the epigrammatic habit.
Here is Australia’s pretty apology for wattle-
blossom
Peroxide’s out of date ? . O yes, I know ;
But those poor dear spring poets love it So !
And two others from his batch are clever-.
Summer met a dirt-bin in the backyard of a
suburban hotel; and, after a few days’ stay in an
adjacent room, a traveller returned to London and
wrote poetic essays on “ The Myriad Odors of the
Australian Bush.”
* * * *
“ A poor place, Australia.” says the absentee.
“ I don’t know what it would do without me.”
d*
The swagman has had “his drink with the
men inside, and starts again along the dusty
track that nation after nation has -so hope-
fully taken ; but as he goes he hears behind
him some remarks that maybe lie will ponder
over on his way. For there area few leaners
against posts that have not only something
to sav, but the knowledge how to say it.
“ F.B.” calls after him :—
And, looking at the sundowner from over-
seas, “A.S.” truthfully and smartly ob-
serves : , ■
Australia, the inter alia of British statesman-
ship ! ■
While Thomas Porter, from rain-sodden
Maoriland, unkindly carps :
Australia—kind, sunny, bright nurse for a
young-nation— dry nurse !
And ere he disappears over the dusty edge
of space he hears from “Locust ” this stimu-
lating advice
In the Australian Democracy Caste has had no
place. Let us beware of giving place to the Half-
caste.
«£*
“Yes, yes,” mutter's the old swagman.
“No caste— no half-caste!” and, after a
long pause, “ and no cast-offs ! ” And had
the old man only thought of sending that
"itfcle- remark into The Bulletin office he
might, this day, have been a guinea the
richer. For the man against the post was
too busy polishing the post to polish his
epigram.
And perhaps the swagman did not hear
D. O’Reilly’s jibe : —•
And D. O’Reilly (Sydney Grammar School)
was shouted for by the keeper of the Red
Page Pub.
Yet as the old sundowner goes grimly on
toward the sunrise, he makes one remark to
himself:—
The Australians should think,in continents.
They are the only race with a whole continent
to think in.
Bit nobody but the desert heard him, and
it was only months afterwards, when still
trudging toward the sunrise, lie learned that
he had twice missed that guinea. But the
desert heard him ; for he thought in deserts
and other large things like that. It isn’t
everybody who lias a wiiole desert to think in.
TWO EPIGRAMS ON AUSTRALIA.
The last Cup winner hauls
Her ammunition waggon,
Laden with bats and balls,
Northward —to fight the dragon,
* * * *
Asia's a-swarm !
What then ? — we’ll bump her /
Noble’s in form,
So’s Trumper.
SYDUEY.
D. O’REILLY.
When a critic laughs and points at me,
The “ Cornstalk ” of Australia, he'
Laughs from his grandpa’s easy chair.
He says that all my life I lean
Against a post, and swear.
But let me tell John Bull Gotthelf
That all alone, upon my own,
I dug the hole and cut that pole,
Awl planted it myself.
In history of nations and of men
We find one number enter time again ;
For many Fame has smiled with classic nine ;
But Land of Southern Cross and great Carbine,
Thus far in your short life we fain must draw
Your fame is linked with the number four—
Your heavenly with the four‘stars of the Cross,
Your earthly with the four legs of a “ hoss ” !
In olden days, the cripple cured
Into some chnroh his crutches brought,
And told the pains he had endured
And wha(j a miracle was wrought.
On every side green arms of Ocean toss,
Guarding a land of sunshine and good cheer,
For, though folk speakabouta “ Southern”cross,
We only “ get our wool off” once a year.
E. F. Christie.
Too great to be turned in a small piece of verse,
This land of a great corftradiction ;
One side shows the youngest of lands, the obverse
Dame Nature’s most ancient condition.
Naso.
Australia, beware of the little brown men
Who visit you, courteous and bland :
Though rough in your surface with gully and ridge,
It must never be really Japanned.
A. A. Jones.
The dawning impulse of youth,
Vigorous a’nd bold.
Happy to be young—yet
Eager to be old.
H. E. R.
King Pippin of all Terra’s garden crop,
’Tis seen why she the last man sucks delight from;
Wise fruiterer-like, God placed her first atop—
Man open’d up the barrel at the bottom.
Vulcan.
A feast for gods
Long hidden in a nook,
In Nature’s Banquet Hall,
Uncovered by a Cook.
Drum.
O great Loan Land ! Who would have thought
Your rulers so omniscient ?
For each high post a stranger’s sought,
They deeming for your sons’ support
The lamp-post’s height sufficient.
And Fred Davison’s sarcasm almost makes
him wince
Our habit of a hundred years,
Through which we’ll yet sup sorrow—
“ It should he done, it must be done,
It SHALL be done—to-morrow.”
Asia’s a-swarm !
What then—we’ll bump her !
Noble’s in form,
So’s Trumper.
TWO ENGLISH NOVELS
Cursorily let us glance at two of the “best
.read ” English novels of the day.
England is the only place in the world where
The Far Horizon (Hutchinson and Co., per Angus
and Robertson) could have been written. The
heavy hand of George Eliot is upon the later
English woman novelist: a tradition of sombre
dullness still lingers in the modern “serious”
work, which treats of various brands of religion
and suburban at-homes yvith a portentous serious-
ness that out here, in the sunlight, seems some-
what uncalled for.
Lucas Malet, after writing one good book
(The Wages of Sin), one distressingly clever
book ( Sir Richard Calmpdy), now gives us a
serious and suburban book. The story moves
through solemn, rounded, lethargic periods of
deliberate prose; its hero is an ex-bank clerk,
past fifty, with heart disease—and we have to
wade through fifty pages before we get the
heroine. The story has its delicate woman's
touches, such as the picture of the woman with
the clouded mind, who finds in her endless
making of Irish lace a symbolic meaning, a mystic
significance. Into the intricate designs and end-
less variety of delicate and ingenious stitches,
“she poured forth her soul, as another might
pour it forth in music, finding there an imagina-
tive language far surpassing, in its subtlety of
suggestion, articulate speech. There were deserts
of net, of spider’s-web fineness, to he laboriously
traversed. . . . And there were, to her, vaguely
agitating and even fearful things in this
lace-work also—confusions of outline, broken
purposes, multiplicity of opposing intentions)
Struggle of good and evil powers in the intricacies
of some rich arabesque ;/or monotonous repetitions
of design which distressed her as with the terrors
of imprisonment and of unesuapable fate.”
The Far Horizon is the leisurely novel in which
all the furniture in every room is laboriously and
lovingly described ; perhaps we would not be
wronging Lucas Malet of the later manner if we
described her work in the words used by one of
her suburban characters for her heavy and hybrid
suppers: “ All comfortable and friendly, no cere-
mony and fal-lals, but everything put down on
the table so that you can see it and please your-
self.”
And Poppy, the deliberately indecorous heroine,
whohas a Past, but whose indiscretions in the novel
are confined to frank remarks (wickedly designed
to shock the suburban mind) is, after all, a cha-
racter quite alive. She objects to the fact that
most women that enter into men’s lives have had
so many predecessors. ‘ ‘At best, one comes in a bad
tinrd—more often a bad thrCe-and-twentieth. . . .
They have romantic memories of half-a-dozen
women. . . . One knows all the time that the
whole show’s merely a rechauffe. Visions of
Clara and Gladys, and dear little Emily, and
Riosina, and Beatrice, and the lovely Lucinda—
angels every one of them, if you haven’t seen
them for ten years, and wouldn’t know them again
if you met them in the street—haunt the back-
ground of every man’s mind by the time he’s five-
and-thirty, and cut entrancing capeVs against the
sky-line, so that one finds the actually present
woman, here in the foreground, hasn’t really a
look-in at all.”
Toward the end the novel is thickly larded
over with heavy slabs about religion, and the sus-
pected tendency of the hero towards preaching
breaks out in laborious paragraphs. Still, the
religious novel has always had a wild, unhal-
lowed attraction for the London suburbs. And,
finally, the tale moves with a sombre deliberation
which, after all, is rather like life. But a great
novel ? No. F 2,
Let us turn to something more promising. The
name of the author, William J. Locke, hints at
fantasy and delight. For Locke is always happily
impossible and genially shocking—and he Knows
Woman. It was in The Morals of Marcus
Ordeyne that he made assured his position in the
first ranks of English novelists’; but it is an illus-
tration of the lagging footsteps of liter.iYy recog-
nition that before the appearance of that achieve-
ment Locke had industriously published eight
good novels. The youfig Australian novelist who
wishes to get famous in a hurry might ponder
this depressing fact. In The Morals , Locke drew
a delightful heroine ; as a drama, the story has
been received with enthusiasm. It is one of the
possibilities of the future that here we have
a dramatist who will inject a fresh ichor into the
veins of the moribund English drama. His latest
book, The Beloved Vagabond (John Lane, per
hycnev L wc Ciuh) inis all the happy irresponsi-
bility of Alarcm. It may he classed Fl. it is a
glorification, and sometimes a frank apology, for
vagabondage. His hero is picturesque, sottish,
artistic, dirty, abrucndabrant —in put Quixote,
Cyrano, and Tartarin. It is a comedy of the
artistic temperament. BerzeliusNibbidard Para-
got when he found a resonant name our vaga-
bond made a practice of adopting it—has a mind
that thinks in palaces.
“lam a genius,” said Paragot modestly. “I
used to think in Most men’s palaces
are little buildings written big.--My small build-
ings were palaces reduced. I could have roofed
in the whole of Paris with a dome.”
With this paragon a youth, a dog, and an un-
prepossessing girl wander the world. Paragot
hints to his adoring disciple the cause of his
vagabondage.
“ Well, this young man was clad in purple and
fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day. He
also had valuable furniture. One evening tome-
thing happened to annoy him—a flaw iif what he
had conceived to be the scheme of the universe.
It annoys many people. The young man lieing
annoyed, cast the fruits of his genius into the
tire, tore up his purple and fine linen, and smashed
his furniture with a crusader’s mace which hap-
pened to be hanging by way of an ornament on
the wall. It's made of steel with a knob full of
spikes. I know nothing like it for destroying a
Louis Quinze table, or for knocking the works
out of a clock. If you're good, my son, you shall
have one when you grow up.”
So this “ film full of wind and wonder, fantasy
and folly” is “driven like thistledown about the
world;” and when his reformation comes we
know it cannot last. Paragot is true to himself,
the self that, with a violin, “could rip out the
hearts of a dead Municipal Council.”
“ Paragot drained his tumbler . . . and cleared
his throat, with the contentment of a man whose
thirst has been slaked.
“ ‘ Now one can spit,’ he exclaimed, heartily.
“ ‘That is always a comfort to a man,’ re-
marked the patronne.
“ ‘lt is the potentiality that is the comfort.’”
And with a pleasant memory of the design he
drew for his Palais de Dipsoraanie— in whose
drunken architecture columns stood upside down,
and enormous buttresses supporting nothing
leaned incapable against the building, till the
whole palace looked reeling drunk—we leave
Paragot, a contented father. “Who says that
Berzelius Nibbidard Paragot can’t make things
grow ? 1 was born to it. Nom de Dieu I could
make anything grow. I could plant your
palette and it would dbme up a landscape. And
snere mille cochons , I have done the most
miraculous thing of all. I am the father of a
human being, a real live human being. He is
small as yet,” he added apologetically, “ but still
he is alive. He has teeth, Asticot, It is the
most remarkable thing in this astonishing
universe.” , '
Dr. H. Hensoldt is to he congratulated upon
his pluck. In this materialistic age when Thibet
is no longer a mysterious country, when the
spiritual ruler of that land has paid a visit to
India, when the last refuge of esoteric Budd-
hism has been explored by- military expedi-
tions, and when instead of Mahatmas were found
only ignorance and dirt, Dr. Hensoldt, in his new
magazine, Orient and Occident (Royal Chambers,
Hunter-street, Sydney', 6d.), comes forward with
an astounding interview with the Dalai Lama in
1882. The Dalai Lama, the predecessor of the
one who fled to Mongolia on the approach of the
Younghusband expedition, was then a boy of eight
years of age ; and Dr. Hensoldt naively puts aside
the most obvious explanation why that unfortunate
individual’s career is always suddenly terminated
by death as soon as he shows signs of growing up
—and taking charge. But it is the interview
with this child that excites our admiration of the
editor of Orient and Occident as a writer of sensa-
tional literature. This boy of eight, despite Dr.
Hensoldt’s disguise, promptly addressed him in his
native German, and moreover in a dialect which he
had not heard for many years, and which the child
could not. have acquired by any process known to
ordinary mortals. The explorer’s explanation is
that this miracle was merely a species of mind-
reading, and that thoughts were conveyed with-
out the medium of speech, leaving the language
in which the thoughts were appiirently spoken
entirely to the imagination of the listener. If so,
Dr. Hensoldt is to be congratulated upon his
imagination. But the child god not only read the
explorer’s thoughts but replied to them—before
the doctor could enunciate them—with deep
philosophical learning. We can recommend
Orient and Occident, not only to all believers in
Blavatsky, but to all in search of stimulating
reading.
It seems a pity that, though GhiyasUddin Abul
Fath Omar Ihn Ibrahim al-Khayyami ((letter
known as Omaf Khayyam) died a centenarian, he
did not live long enough to draw his royalties.
For the editions of Fitzgerald’s translation grow
innumerable. The latest is a pleasing reprint
published by T. C. Lothian, Melb., in his artistic
“Nugget ” series, wherein, for ninepence, you get
the wisdom of the old philosopher in the inter-
stices between elaborate color-decorations. Stone’s
Print Shop, Melb., also publishes a neat little
Rubaiyat, appropriately decorated.
“Australia’s Penny Post” is the title of an
article in Feb. World's Work. The author,
“E.J.T.8.,” is somewhat previous. The World s
TForA - is one of the few English magazines that
are worth reading. The most remarkable article
in a varied contents-bill is one upon' “The Con-
quest of the Air.’’-fully illustrated with photo-
graphs of the latest things in air-ships. Ihe
American edition of The World's Work has also
articles of solid interest.
The Bond l of Music (Truslove and Hanson,
Eng.; 2s. 9rf.), daintily printed and bound, is a
little anthology for music-lovers —a collection ol
poems and prose-selections from English litera-
ture dealing with music, well compiled by Duncan
and August Macdougal.


THE PEOPLES VERDICT:
m
%
■
4jf>
% c?
•»
*5
S 4
4
*
iSfilli
- ••** . "
-'.?, J >
-.-
'
100,000
Customers
consult our Illustrated
General Catalogue—
The Buyer’s
Encyclopaedia
(lOOOpaffes sent free on application),
and follow our dally ads.
The " Little
Snap CJfoecKs ”
In your morning paper are
specially reduced new
goods, and can only be
cashed on day of Issue.
At
LAS SETTER’S
You
Always ....
Get
Your
Money’s. ...
Worth ....
The
Morning ,
Delivery.
[assetter’s
noted
good
values
on
their
way
to the
purchaser
LASSETTER’S FOR EVERYTHING.
F. L-AISISETTER ®. CO., LTD.
THe Universal
Providers,
CHEAPSIDE. SYDNEY.
The Bulletin.
THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS WANTE
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, 4c.
Consign to:
WINCHCQMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in for tlie McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.
«• i
Q_—7
a
WIAIARDSF»R
IM-MOME •
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcoch’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to be placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK^Co.
GEORGE ST SYDNEY .
AND
imuimmx
MELEjOURME.
Will Andrade - BOOKS.
MOLL FLANLEIIS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for tub Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Vkntriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wipe, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. The Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
(iipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s Gd posted. Sarpiio, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets,-2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, hy Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
RD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNIFORDf
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
ds
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and Can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
whb can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter whsft it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
m
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Aw ay
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMPETIXIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
<fc
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
R
EMEMBER what a shock you got when you first realised that you had
developed a “ bald spot ” ? Barber had no trouble inducing you to have
your hair singed when you next visited him ? (The hair is not a tube,
therefore you wasted time and money there.) The shampoos you had
left the cause untouched, and the oils and greasy preparations you used
only helped to Smother the life from the delicate hair bulbs, and
actually fed the bacteria that was causing the trouble.
“ That Bald Spot ” still goes on growing larger and larger. Beginning to feel
like resigning yourself to the inevitable ? Don’t be discouraged. Take a good
long look at that scalp of yours. Any “down” there? Yes? YOUR BALD-
NESS IS CURABLE. lam prepared to give you a written guarantee that
“ Capllla ” will give you back
your hair.
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
will force that “down” into strong, healthy
hair, or refund you the cost of the prepara-
tion. It’s a straightforward proposition
from a man who honestly believes in the
merits of his remedy, and who wants those
who act on his advice to be nothing out of
pocket. It’s a fair offer. Are you going to
avail yourself of it? STOP ! DON’T leave it
till to-morrow. Go to your chemist or store
and buy a bottle of “ Capilla ” TO-DAY, or write me NOW! You ? ll save hair
and money by acting NOW.
CAPILLA Hair Tonic is sold everywhere at Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle, full course of 6 bottles
posted direct (under cover) for 17s. 6d. ; (Inter-State, 19s. 2d.), from the inventor, W. OLIVER
RICHARDS, 131 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W. '
NEW CLUB CARTRIDGES
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of-; the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute.
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
ENOS
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked EMO’S 'FRUIT SALT)' Without It you hare •
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
ffnparad only by J. O. E NO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDOK. BNO.,
by J. O. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
ARTCH*
gftKflllS'g [B l 0 B POULS.
CONSTIPATION.
fs; ?„ e , a Som h pl’exion.
Everyman and woman should kno hat gallow sk j n .
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples a J IVER
Remove the cause by using BARTER Begin at
PILLS, and above all PILLS. Liver
once with CARIER S LITTL the wonderful
Complaints never have and never can res
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pille Must Bear Signature of
s


r Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
filler's
ytair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not he deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass. , U. S. A.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
d
ď
đ
d
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal
Material
for
Children's
Frocks,
&c.
From the
Leading
Drapers.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
dsg
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded withe ut question
If uot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year?, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
£3.10 to £9
LATEST
MODELS
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim Brakes, variable gears
andalliates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
. ACTIVE AGENTS Large profits easily made.
write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our tneciol offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
By
Royal Warrant
PURVEYORS TO
gd
His Majesty the
Kino and
Royal Family.
IP YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR ”
Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
tis Replacing- All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
1.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LIHITED,
London, Aberdeen,-and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
IRISH fIOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy
INFLUENZA, *
COUGHS,
COL O|^ O NCHms.
aria see chaiyou get iC . ASTHMA.
sg
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness , Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pa,ns or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving- daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
NO DRUGS. NO PLASTERS. NO ELECTRICITY.
WHAT DOCTORS SAY. —Our Vibrator is used and
endorsed by many thousand physicians of all schools
of medicine. No matter how much they may differ
in their opinions about drugs, they unite in agreeing
that the Vibrator is a truly scientific apparatus, safe
yet powerful, and of unquestioned efficacy in practi-
cally all diseased and disordered conditions. Dr.
Lemons says Your Vibrator received, and used
with great satisfaction.”
AND NOW, HOW ABOUT YOU? You need the
Vibrator in your family. Stop taking drugs, and let
Nature’s true principles of Stimulation by Vibration
cure you and yours. You will never regret the in-
vestment in a Vibrator. Apart from its wide range
of effectiveness, it is practically indestructible, has
no electricity, no wheels, no cogs or springs, and it
cannot get out of order.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is IS/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every tow»n.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mltual) \ B or N S W.- 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(6) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
anecifled diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER, Res. Sec.
A. ®> F.
PEAKS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
llotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.
Eheu Fugaces...Labuntur Anni.
Life’s but a breath
’Twixt Death and Death,
It needs no sooth to say;
The midge that springs
On gauzy wings
Foretells our little day.
Man is a pawn
To be withdrawn
Whenever that God will;
His words and deeds
Are windy reeds
Upon a flame-swept hill.
The grave’s disgrace
Shall mar the face
That glittered here with pride,
The fairest fair
Must soon repair
To be the worm’s white bride..
“ The hanging judge,”
He, too, must trudge
The starless pike to Hell,
To pay the tolls
Of all the souls
He pluckt from prison-cell.
What worth is Fame ?
’Tis but a name
Blown world-wide dustily ;
How slow, how slow
The laurels grow;
How fast the cypress-tree !
N.s.w.
HUGH McCRAE.
Travelling to Latrobe.
As I was travelling to Latrobe, one sunny after-
noon in May,
I met a couple riding
Where the road winds round St. Patrick’s Bay.
A fair-haired girl on a gallant gray
I hat pranced as though proud of his burden gay,
Behind an old farmer who led the way,
A fat bay mare bestriding.
Travelling, travelling to Latrobe,
By the road that runs on the eastern side
Of the Mersey River, where far and wide
It lies like a lake at the full of the tide
As you’re travelling to Latrobe.
As I was travelling to Latrobe, that sunny after-
noon in May,
A wicked mood came o’er me.
I passed the farmer the time o’ day
As he ambled by on his dappled bay,
And smiled and winked in the same old way
At his daughter fair on the gallant gray,
As my father did before me.
As I was travelling to Latrobe, that sunny after-
noon in May,
I could not but adore her.
The farmer passed me the time o’ day
In a gruff and grumpy kind o’ way,
While his daughter fair, on the gallant gray,
Blushed and smiled, as I should say
Her mother did before her.
Travelling, travelling to Latrobe
By the road that runs on the eastern side
Of the Mersey River, where, far and wide,
It lies like a lake at the full of the tide
As you’re travelling to Latrobe.
TASMANIA.
VIVIAN.
My Prayer.
Prayers are not for such as me,
Still I’d mumble one,
Just because it can’t do harm
(All the harm is done).
All I ask from What’s Up There
(Call It what you will—
I don’t want to think it out,
Time’s too short—but still)
All I ask from That Which Is
(Ask —not beg or crave—
I won’t cringe—till afterwards,
’Tother side the grave)—
All I ask is only this :
Let no sunset light
Ling’ring wane when Life's Day ends :
Quick and sharp—the night!
No dulled eye, no sluggard brain,
Palsied, shaking limb,
Fussing friends to flutter round
In a sick-room dim.
While my feet are sure and fleet,
Walking where I like,
Let Fate’s winged arrow fall,
Sharp and silent strike
While my stubborn will’s my own,
While my voice can raise
One mad song to Love and Life
(These alone I’ll praise).
Then—there’s one more thing I want—
One more blessed boon
When it’s done, let it be done—
Whether late or soon.
When my Sun sinks to its rest—
Let it rise no more
On another land, but just
Night for evermore.
QUEENSLAND.
CHAS. E. HOWELL.


cx
xc
Miss KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer ) writing of
CADBURY'S
COCOA
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.”
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and^
W endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
f etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantial -
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
f time can be absorbed with little digestive effort,
v “A Perfect Food.”— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S. __
7
BUZACOTT at the SHOW.
VISITORS at the Easter Agricultural Show will find much to interest
them, and they should on no account miss seeing
CAPEL’S SUCTION GAS PLANT
in operation. The cost of driving a Gas Engine on the Suction Gas
Principle is ONE-TENTH of A PENNY or less per H.P. per hour.
“THE HERCULES” OIL ENGINES.
SHARPLES’ TUBULAR CREAM SEPARATORS.
THE BRUNSWICK HOUSEHOLD ICE MACHINES.
“CYCLONE” FENCING AND GATES, Etc., Etc.
We are Sole Agents for the above lines, and shall be glad to meet friends
and enquirers on the Agricultural Society’s Grounds during the Show
and explain, personally, anything that needs elucidation.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 and 9 Market Street, SYDNEY.
Iliii
0
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queen’s Ga.teTerrd.ce
London. S.W. i
UNDER
ROYa
[^sPatMnage
ONE
THE MOST >
.FASHIONABLE,
HOTELS IN
LONDON
NOTED FOR
'ITS COMFORT&\
CONVENIENCE
Beautiful Home Decorations
xcxc
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OVB FAVORITE” GOTO ENAMEL (Washable) Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOLIN ENAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for. Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
“SAPOLIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Mile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
johnbeccs.
srECUUIDIIEUR
Scotch whisky
me
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
z
z
z
/
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty The King.
BOVRIL
i, 1
The flavour, essence, nutriment and all that’s good in prime
ox-beef is concentrated in Bovril.
A little Bovril added to soups and made dishes renders them
more appetising and nutritious.
ç
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Illustrated Price
List Post Free.
MILLERS
! fa
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped with
White.
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney,
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
A
9
Paper
A correspondent asks: “To what other uses besides insulating silos may
GIANT PAPER be put ? ” Although all up-to-date silos are insulated with Giant
Paper that channel is perhaps the smallest in which GIANT PAPER is used. The
walls, ceilings and floors of all the best houses are made air-tight, damp, dust and
insect proof with GIANT PAPER. Refrigerating Chambers, Refrigerator Cars,
Cold Storage Chambers, Cellars, Dairy and Cheese Factories, and Breweries are
usually insulated with GIANT PAPER. In all modern houses and factories
insulation is of vital importance. Perfect insulation can only be secured by an
odorless, thoroughly saturated air-tight, waterproof paper. That paper is
GIANT BUILDING PAPER.
All Storekeepers.
Wholesale
Agents. .
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Sydney & Brisbane
If you want
to test
GIANT
PAPER
throw a
piece into
water and
see what
Happens.


The Bulletin.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1415.
THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 1907.
Pbioe 6d.
This, if you like, is a portrait of
the editor of The Watchman —halo
and all—taken at the moment of
writing ungallant things about the
scarlet young person of Babylon.
And here we have another God-tearing editor—Rev. W. H. Fitchett, of
Life. Mr. Fitchett does not wear his halo during business hours. He thinks
i- conduces to baldness. It will be seen in the upper right-hand corner of
the picture, hanging on a nail.
JOURNALISM IN THE NEVER-NEVER.—Behold here the “brains” of the
Back-Blox Thunderer. His back Is toward us, bat it is easy to see by his
strenuous attitude that he is rubbing up the Kaiser or the Czar the wrong way.
As an interesting companion picture to the last, is a busy day in the sans*
turn of a “ Qreat Daily.” Editor Ward’s whiskers have many admirers.
SOME OF OUR GREAT EDITORS.-A PEEP BEHIND THE SCENES.


The Bulletin.
The National Australian Newspaper*
" Australia for the A ustralians. ,>
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By,sending direct to Tire Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tire Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
It out to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. 'will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tire Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu tours in. Mach aml M Lite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and,
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetoivn;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Ivong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents' Special Notice.
Tire Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. xlkin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Tj&r^zzlZeZZTi,
THURSDAY. MARCH 28, 1907.
HOW PILATE, THE DAGO, WASHED
HIS HANDS.
To-morrow is the anniversary—nearly the 1900th
anniversary—of a day which made more history
than any other in the world’s record. Jerusalem
was Italian territory in those times, and the proud
and insolent Dago legions clanked around in their
hardware, and their pomp, and their Sunday
clothes, and looked down with bloated arrogance
on all and sundry. All Dagodom looked down
then with arrogance on all and sundry—save on the
German occasionally and the Parthian now and
then. Pontius Pilate, the Italian, whom the
quaint Ethiopian church afterwards made into a
saint, was mandarin, or procurator, or chief robber
of Judea, and he seems to have been the true Italian
of the period, with a monstrous pride, and a paw
like Behemoth for backsheesh, and the glassy eye
of contempt for everything except Caesar and
Caesar’s minions— Sejanus and his kind. Close
on nineteen centuries ago this typical representa-
tive of Italy sat up listlessly in his chair
of state to listen to an accusation, and
but for that event his name would probably
have disappeared from history as a heavy thing
of no importance —say a disused anvil—disappears
in deep water. The Christ had innumerable
friends—mostly Jews. He also had active and
virulent enemies, mostly Jews; their enmity
was owing to unutterable disappointment when
they found that the Prince of the House of
David was no warrior after all, and had not
shifted the unspeakable dead weight of Italian
tyranny by so much as a hair. There is no
evidence that He had one friend among the
Italian ruling caste, and the fact that He
had not, apparently, in that same caste one
very active enemy seemed to be owing rather
to the gigantic superciliousness of the Dago of
those days than to any sympathy or kindliness of
heart. The Italian soldiery scourged Him and
plaited His crown of thorns; the Italian authority
passed the death sentence ; the Italian legionaries
did the Crucifixion and stole the victim’s gar-
ment ; the Italian troopers watched, with un-
friendly intent, at the sepulchre where two
kindly Jews had given the body decent burial.
Italy has struggled hard to forget these things
ever since, and has sought comfort in the thought
that Pilate, the perfunctory Italian, washed his
hands even as he passed sentence, and de-
clared that he took none of the responsibility
of his position—only the pomp, and the salary,
and anything he could steal. But there was no
calling out of the clanking legions to suppress the
petty local disturbance which clamored for a
death sentence; only the spectacle of a lazy
oppressor washing his hands, which he would
probably have washed about that time of day in
any case. And the Tiber has been muddy ever
since, and the lagoons of Venice persistently silt
up with what looks like the debris of the biggest
and most futile wash in the world’s history.
* * • *
And ever since then, Jew and Italian have
been busy shifting the responsibility back and
forward, to and fro, this way and that; and
the Italian has been the louder of the pair,
and has gesticulated more furiously than the
other man, and so has got more of an audience.
The converted Jews who adopted the gospel of
the new Teacher have long since vanished from
history. They sank out of sight amid the
adjacent populations, and where they are now
no man can really tell. The unconverted
Jews were scattered in the great cataclysm
which swallowed up Jerusalem, but in that
respect they had no worse luck than Tyre,
Sidon, Carthage, Assyria, or a score of other
obliterated nations. And in the amazing manner
in which they were able to preserve their
nationality, they had better fortune than most
other conquered races in that gory period of
Italian domination ; also, they had better fortune
than their converted and obliterated brethren.
It was a time when small nations, whether they
were supposed to be specially accursed of Heaven
or not, met with much the same fortune; the
only difference lay in the amazing Hebrew courage
and vitality, which kept the Jewish race above
ground when so many others went below. If
the preservation of a race is a matter of good
fortune, then the Jew, with all his disasters,
has been blessed above most men of his time
—above the Greek, who is now represented
by a mongrel interloping brigand who sells dirty
currants and calls himself Greek; or the Piet,
who isn’t visibly represented by anything; or
the aboriginal Briton ; or the original Irishman
who lingers doubtfully in Connaught and there-
abouts. Meanwhile Italy, with its share of the
curse dragging at its heels, went its way to
destruction. It beheaded the Apostles, and
burned the converts. It became a monstrous
mass of corruption without losing one whit of its
arrogance, or diminishing in the least the glassy
eye of its superciliousness. It was more or less
converted in course of time; but conversion, in its
case, seemed to be merely varnish poured on a
corpse ; for its new Christianity, so far as all the
evidence goes, made it not one whit less corrupt
than its old heathenism, and did not stay by one
second its downward progress. From the time of
Pilate hardly a gleam of luck came in the way
of the Italian empire. It became the Mrs.
Sicewton (Dickens’ Mrs. Skewton) among nations
—old, frisky, shrill, painted, and struggling to
impress the threatening young races with tl e
glitter of its false teeth and the hostile look
of its artificial eye. Probably even the
dispersion of the Jews was hardly a cir-
cumstance compared with the dispersion of
the old dominant Italian people. The men went
to the frontiers of the empire to hold back the
barbarians, and didn’t return. The cavity thus
created at the heart of the empire was filled by
niggers, Asiatics, Greeks, Egyptians, miscellaneous
foreigners, eunuchs, hairdressers, and dancing
bears. A time came when almost everybody
could be found in Rome except the Romans. The
empire itself grabbed its crown and bolted to
Byzantium, and large-hoofed northerners came
and trod on Pontius Pilate’s countrymen, and
they became like the dodo and the moa—a people
hard to find, and a ruin of confused bones.
< « *
Christianised Italy always behaved like a
country with something on its mind. It was always
washing its hands, like Pilate, and the Tiber
continued muddy. Its denunciations and perse-
cutions of the Hebrew race in later years consti-
tuted the record bluff of history—the bluff of a
pious nation which was desperately anxious
to change the subject, and which desired
above all things to draw attention away
from the fact that it was an Italian governor
who passed the most infamous death sentence
in all history, and a ribald Italian soldiery that
gambled for the dying Teacher’s clothes on Cal-
vary. The old Italian race might be mostly
dead and gone, but the new race, partly Saracen in
the south, partly German in the north, partly any-
thing in the middle districts, had inherited the
Italian name and the feverish Italian desire to
wash its hands, and it had taken over Pilate’s
tin dish and bit of soap along with the rest of the
inheritance. Yet despite all its anxious wash, Italy
continued singularly scarce of good fortune. Cer-
tainly there was a curious decadent radiance about
it in the Middle Ages. Venice, Genoa, Milan,
Rome, and other States were great in a way.
They produced great tyrants in a small fashion —
men like Gian Visconti, who nearly conquered
all Lombardy, and Cassar Borgia, who raked
all Gehenna to build up an empire that would
about extend from Sydney to Katoomba ; great
painters, great poets, great poisoners, amazing
liars, and men whose perjury amounted to genius.
They also produced great soldiers—great in their
capacity to lick small Italian soldiers ; but except
that once the Italians asserted themselves in the
field against Frederick of Germany, Italy was
everybody’s dog, and the only reason why it
wasn’t permanently conquered was that there
were too many conquerors, and Germans, French,
and Spaniards could never agree on a division of
the spoil. Italy to this day is something of a
jest—the only Great Power in history which never
won a battle single-handed against anybody worth
mentioning, either since it became a Great Power
or for centuries previous to that humorous event.
* * * *
The church, nowadays, is a less ferocious thing
than it was a few hundred years ago. It is less
credulous, and has ceased to wholly pin its faith
to Ahasuerus, the Wandering Jew, although an
hysterical lady identified that person in Sydney,
a few years ago, and solemnly gave him two-and-
sixpence, and asked him for particulars of his
career. It is also less addicted to cursing, and
not nearly so positive that some great, imperish-
able anathema followed on the heels of that
tragedy that lies nineteen centuries back in the
dim wastes of history. But still, it hasn’t got
rid of the impression that the dispersed people of
Jewry, who have so wonderfully preserved their
nationality, are, in some sense, a sign of
Divine displeasure. Yet the homeless Jew
has compensations. He is the world’s financier,
while the Italian sells 12 bananas in a bag for 6d.
The Jew owns gold mines and finances new rail-
roads, and when he wants a tunnel dug out he
hires the Italian laborer to flourish the pick and
shovel on the j ob, and to bring his dinner along in a
handkerchief. The Jew owns great banks, and the
Italian grinds the barrel organ at his gates, and
urges the monkey to dance with renewed fury,
and hopes that the Hebrew may condescend to
look out of the window and throw him a coin. The
Jew is grasping and covetous, and so is the
Italian, but £1 sticks to the capable Hebrew
while the other man fails to get a really firm hold
of 3d. .And if the Italian has a country of his
own it is not his fault; be owes it to the mterfer-
ence of that bogus Bonaparte, the gaudy
Napoleon 111. reputedly the son of a Dutch
Admiral; therefore the fact that the Dago is less
homeless than the Israelite is not so distinctly to
his credit as it might be. And the Italian has
more on his mind than the Jew. He is still
worried about Pontius Pilate. One small remote
offshoot of the Italian Church, it is true, made
Pilate a saint, which was an heroic way of dispos-
ing of him; and celebrated him on the 25th of each
succeeding June. But the Italian race hasn’t yet
got quite rid of the legend that the devil fishes its
long-dead procurator out of a Swiss lake every
Good Friday, and that when he is extracted he
seats himself dripping on the shore and washes his
hands. It may be symbolical of the painful and
complicated case of Pilate, the ancient Dago who
washed his hands, that the modern Dago so often
forgets to wash the other parts of himself. Long
centuries of unconscious concentration of thought
on Pilate’s hands may have tended to make him
oblivious to the condition of his own legs. And
on the other hand, Pilate may have nothing to do
with the downfall of Italy, and that country may
be simply another evidence of how pride, bloated
insolence, vast estates and cheap colored labor
can undermine a great empire and destroy a once
virile people. The case is a complicated one—
altogether too complicated for decision off-hand—
and it is hereby adjourned indefinitely, with Costs,
not that the chance of collecting Costs from the
defendant amounts to much.
THE FEDERAL BUREAUCRACY.
When the Public Service Act— governing the
conditions of employment in the xlustralian Civil
Service —was under discussion by Panicment, the
one danger against which precaution was deemed
necessary was “political influence.” All parties
professed a great dread of the intrusive paw of
the politician, and eagerly assented to every
safeguard suggested against that evil. But —
as Dan O’Connor would say—in avoiding
the dangerous embrace of Scylla, Parliament
rushed to the devouring bosom of Charybdis.
Political influence was banished effectively enough,
but at the same time the foundations were laid, deep
and firm, for a system of Civil Service bureau-
cracy, which, even now in its young growth,
thwarts public administration, fills Ministers with
uneasiness, and has earned scathing denunciation
from the Public Service Commissioner himself.
L nless there is prompt reform —and reform can
■only come from the Parliament —the Federal
Civil Service may become, as it gets to better
know its power, a real danger to Australia.
it ¥ * *
The present unsatisfactory state of the Aus-
tralian Public Service is in a small part due to
the fact that the first selection of big officials
was not the best possible. Some of the men
chosen had given promise of capacity, and have
fulfilled that promise since. Others won to posi-
tions which were far above their capacities. Social
good fellowship, ability to dance attendance on
a great man, to carry his coat and run his
errands, scored in some cases as against real
merit. But this bad start was, after all,
only a temporary evil, easily to be reme-
died if a good system had been set up
when the tim6 came to make permanent
provision for the control of the Public Service.
The failures might have been graded into their
proper rank—even a gentleman with an amiable
capacity for carrying coats has a use somewhere,
as a hall porter or a messenger, if not as an under-
secretary —and new appointments made with
greater care. But the Public Service Act, as
adopted, represented a close copy of the methods
by which China has managed to kill all progress,
and has handed the Government over to a
herd of well-informed fools who have passed
examinations in a literature representing
the accumulated blunders and superstitions
of twenty centuries. The Chinese system
of government by literati —whereby admirals
are chosen by reason of their vast knowledge of
ancient poetry, and of moral maxims, and of
alleged facts about the manners, customs, pur-
poses, working hours, and remuneration of devils —
is really not very much more absurd than that of
the Australian Public Service, into whose ranks
you enter at an early age by examination, in
which you progress by examination, and from
which you can only be banished by a miracle or
an Act of Parliament. The precautions against
men of talent or enterprise intruding into the
holy preserve are elaborate. Equally careful are
the safeguards against authority driving out any
of the sacred caste for incompetence or ineffi-
ciency. Once a Federal civil servant, always
a Federal civil servant. The “sack” is practi-
cally impossible, A public servant must get into
gaol or an inebriate asylum before he can
endanger his position. He may be utterly in-
competent ; his incompetence may be most
clearly proved by the disastrous effect it has on
the public administration; but in the desire to
obliterate “ political influence,” things have been
so fixed that his position is none the less secure.
Since this argument is against a system, and not
an official, or a group of officials, specific instances
will not be cited. But several instances will
promptly suggest themselves to every one inter-
ested in Federal administration, where an official
has shown incompetence, prejudice, and ignorance,
which in any private employment would be pun-
ished by severe reproof, if not dismissal. But
nothing is done, nothing can be done. Ministers
know, but to interfere requires a degree of moral
courage that they do not possess; so they let
matters drift absolutely into the hands of the per-
manent officials. Government by Responsible
Ministers approaches its end, to be replaced with
Government by irresponsible bureaucrats. In some
cases the official is able and the result is fairly
good. In others he is a complete failure, and the
effect is wholly bad. In all cases there is a
mischievous tendency toentrench the Civil Service
as a holy caste, a power “ behind the throne,” not
liable to Parliamentary criticism, but using puppet
Ministers as shields behind which it runs the show.
* * * *
A remedy can only come from a change in the
system set up by the Public Service Act. There
is no call to revert to an era in which the service
will be wholly run by political influence. But
there is need to restore sufficient political influ-
ence to give back to Ministers th eir proper responsi-
bility ; to make the Civil Service more amenable
to control; and to modify the wooden system by
which almost insuperable obstacles are placed in the
way of any change in the personnel. Parliament,
when discussing the matter before, seemed to act
on an assumption of its own inherent wickedness.
It tied the hands of its members and its Ministers
tightly so that they should not be able to lift even
a dishonest finger; and, at the same time, left
the Service to riot as it pleased. The bad result
is now patent to all who have a means of judging.
from the members of the Cabinet and tLo
Service Commissioner down to the humbS
official, who soon learns to know that, if he can
play cunning ” and keep warily within the
regulations, there is no laziness, inefficiency or
carelessness of which he may not be guilty with
impunity. The Bulletin has no hostility to the
Civil Service as a class. Its plea has alwavs been
for a well-paid service. But as a condition of
good payment there must be good service. That
the Commonwealth does not get in some of the
most important of its departments
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Concentrating Things in Melbourne.
The announcement of N.S.W. State Insect
Carruthers, that he would rather hand over
the Sydney Observatory site to the British
Government for use as a Mint, and practi-
cally destroy the value of 50 years of Sydney
meteorological observations by compelling the
Federal Department to start afresh in anew
place and under new conditions, than sell Sydney
Observatory to the Australian Government —that,
in short, he couldn’t resist the temptation to be
mean and petty and paitry and gratuitously
offensive once more—has had its natural
result. The headquarters of the Australian
Meteorological Department, which were in doubt
before, go to Melbourne till the Federal capital
is founded. According to the Constitution, the
Australian Government is to take charge of
meteorological affairs, just as it is to take charge
of a Federal capital located in New South Wales.
But though the Australian Parliament years ago
selected a Federal capital site, which answers
every requirement of the Constitution, and fills
every detail of the agreement made with
N.S.W., it can’t get an acre of land out of
Joseph, the Dreadful Small Boy, save apparently
by violence; all it can get is Joseph’s waspish
little insults because it doesn’t fix the capital
which he keeps unfixed. Now it appears that
even in the small matter of a meteorological
station there will be the same struggle with
Joseph before it is possible to buy a site.
Joseph’s first polite idea is to turn the
Meteorological Department into the street
as soon as it becomes a Federal institu-
tion, and as the Australian Government
doesn’t choose that its Meteorologist Department
shall be a homeless affair and a vagabond
on the face of the earth, or shall hang out in a
boarding-house or Salv’army Home, it naturally
establishes its headquarters in a State which
doesn’t keep an offensive public kid like Car-
kuthers to run its affairs. The S.M. Herald
professes to see in the decision another evi-
dence of the tendency to centralise things in
Melbourne. Certainly there is such a tendency.
Things have to be centred somewhere, and
apparently they can’t be centred at a Federal
capital in N.S.W. until Carruthers is politi-
cally dead. It was a Reid-Carruthers N.S.W.
Government which broke faith with the other
States, faked the Federal Referendum, annulled
the popular verdict, and, by a dodge worthy of a
land agent or a petty police court solicitor, got a
proviso inserted in the Constitution that the
Australian capital was to be in N.S.W. It was the
officer appointed by another N.S.W.. Government
which recommended Monaro as the best site. It
was the old faking State Government, back in office
again, which refused to surrender the site that its
predecessors had recommended, and the Com-
monwealth had accepted, and which had the un-
speakable impudence to demand that the N.S.W.
State Government should itself select the capital
of all Australia, and that neither the other States
nor the Australian Parliament should have a voice
in the selection of Australia’s political centre.
There has been a deadlock ever since then, and
every Federal Department naturally has its head-
quarters in Melbourne, in order to be in touch
with the Government —the Government being
also exiled to Melbourne. And uni ’ C arruthers
acquires some sense and political there
seems no remedy for this tendency to concentrate
things in Melbourne.
An Extra Special Anti-Federal Lie.
There are so many disloyal, traitorous, Tory,
anti-Australian rags which open their columns to
the anti-Federal liar that The Bulletin is only
interested nowadays when it comes across some-
thing special. It has done so on this occasion.
One of the worst of the unpatriotic rags is the
wofuily misnamed Liberty and Progress, the
Melbourne organ of the Employers’Federation,
v. :.i°h is filled with bitterness against the Aus-
tralian Parliament because it isn’t wholly under
the domination of Fat. This paper, in a recent
issue, published a more than ordinarily foolish
letter —n fact, a sort of a prize fool communi-
cation —under the heading of “Why Federa-
tion has been a Failure.” The epistle contains,
on the average, a lie to every two lines, and the
following is chosen as a fair sample :
Our Federal Government has been a great humbug
with regard to its factory and arbitration laws.... Many
young Australians are thrown out of the factories and
ruined for life Why should a farmer be made to pay
£350 in the case where a laborer hits his finger with a
hammer?
“Paul Mackenzie” is the signature to the
dreadful affair, and he is either the most ignorant
or the most mendacious Paul of whom this paper
has any record. It seems really superfluous to
point out that, unfortunately, the Federal Parlia-
ment has no power to legislate for factories, and,
of course, has not done so. Nor does it legislate
on arbitration matters except when a dispute
spreads over more than one State, and an em-
ployee with a damaged finger doesn’t spread,
though he may swell. That employee, and the
farmer who has to pay him £350 when he hits his
finger with a hammer, are such gorgeous efforts in
the way of lying that they are calculated to
set the public wondering what kind of editor
it is that lets Paul rave in his columns.
Of course, Liberty and Progress represents the
“ gentlemanly ” interest —the interest of the
Toryism which is quite sure it is a gentleman
because of its wealth and its stomach. Australia
has learned a lot about its Tory gentleman since
the beginning of the Commonwealth. After
reading his political utterances, it has come to
the conclusion that a large section of him will
only find his real moral and mental level when he
applies for a job as a goanna, and is refused
owing to the insufficiency of his testimonials.
The Sydney Railway Problem.
Now that Sydney has, to some extent, got its
second wind after being introduced to its new
railway station, it might seriously consider the
advantages of tearing down that garish monument
of imbecility, and building something sensible in a
sensible locality'. Railway stations seem to be
Sydney’s hoodoo, its incurable curse, its persistent
streak of ill-luck. Asa matter of (act, Sydney
has no railway station, and never had one. Tor
years and years it put up with a huge, straggling


dog-kennel terminus in a suburb. Ever since
1860, or thereabouts, it has been worried by its
remote dog-kennel, and has been considering the
question of bringing the railway into the city.
There was not, and is not now, any serious diffi-
culty about the matter ; almost every other great
city on earth has dealt with the same problem,
and Sydney offers no more geographical obstacles
than most other places. But whenever
the subject was mentioned angry experts, and
alleged experts, raged over the question as if it
were a sectarian row. It was, of course, a
matter of some expens' —such matters always are.
The expense wouldn’t iiave been very great, and
any fairly economical and courageous Ministry
could have found the money in a year or two, out
of revenue. But it had come to be understood,
through long continuance of the borrowing
disease, that to pay for any new works out of
revenue was little short of blasphemy, and so
everybody proposed to borrow the money. And
it seemed a good deal of money to borrow
for a mile and a half of line and a station,
especially as the old station that was dropping to
pieces wasn’t yet paid for. So every time the
question arose there were cheap and nasty
schemes for stealing some public park as a site for
a station, and, on the other side, there was
violent opposition to stealing the park ; and a
deadlock ensued every time as a matter of course.
There were 40 years of deadlock, all because no
one thought of the simple device of paying for a
new station out of revenue. And at last
the most astonishing person who was ever a
N.S.W. Minister suddenly borrowed a huge
sum of money, and built a remote station
in the same old, awkward, out-of-the-way
suburb, and left Sydney in the same old hole—a
great city with no railway. People who arrive
by rail have still to depend on tram cars
and cabs and omnibuses to take them into
Sydney; and the narrow, winding streets of
that capital, which is worse off for streets
than almost any other white man’s metro-
polis of its size on this earth, become more
and rpore overcrowded, and more and more worthy
of the name of Suicide Alley. It is still practi-
cally impossible to supply railway communication
with Woolloomooloo, Paddington, Surry Hills,
Woollahra, Waverley, Coogee, Bondi, etc., for
there is no Sydney railway to connect them with.
The long-talked-of railway connection by bridge
with North Sydney is as remote as ever; the new
station brought the railway only a few yards
nearer to North Sydney. It was all a muddle
and a failure, and the best thing Sydney can
do now is to recognise the fact at once. The
city’s urgent need is a great central railway station
about Wynyard-square, near the business centre,
on the rising ground that leads to the only pos-
sible place where a railway bridge can be carried
across to North Sydney, and at a fairly convenient
starting point for a suburban railway system to
the eastern part of the N.S.W. metropolis. The
new station and the new bit of railway should be
built out of revenue. As the new station would
destroy the little pleasure-ground of Wynyard
Square, anew bit of pleasure-ground should be
supplied out of revenue. The present insane
railway station should be regretfully torn down,
and the debt upon it made good out of revenue.
While the State is about the matter, the old,
dead and gone railway station, which still appears
on paper as a permanent and reproductive work,
and good for its value in public debt, should be
paid for out of revenue. In short, there should
be a cleaning up. There is nothing to be gained
by shirking the fact that Sydney’s new station is a
bad debt and a monument of folly and ignorance.
It is part of the price N.S.W. pays for mistaking
Owe’Sullivan for a statesman when he was only
qualified to be a blundering suburban alderman.
The present necessity is to repair Owe’Sullivan
as speedily as possible, and to forget him as soon
as convenient. There is no reason why his politi-
cal ghost should be allowed to permanently retard
the progress of the Cornstalk capital. He is poli-
tically dead, and the kindest thing that can be
done is to politically bury him, and say nothing
about his dreadful white elephant on his political
tombstone.
An Exhibition.
The Australian Chambers of Manufactures having
proposed to hold, at some convenient date, a great
exhibition of Australian manufactured goods with
a view to encouraging Australian industry and
teaching an unfortunate importing people that
their own country’s goods are well worth a trial,
the importing curse has hastily girded up its loins
and bolted into the arena of controversy. The
Mayor of Sydney called a meeting to consider
the advisability of holding an international exhi-
bition which will overshadow and smother any
show of purely Australian products. The inter-
national exhibition, if it comes off, will probably
be a huge dead loss, like all its predecessors. Aus-
tralia will be expected to stand the loss, so that
it may advertise foreign goods, and in order
to encourage its people to buy the products
of every country save their own. There will be
a show of Australian goods, of course, but they
will be so blotted out by the accumulated pro-
ducts of Europe, Asia, Africa, and America that
they will probably amount to less than nothing
in the way of encouraging Australian industry.
And already Australia has before it, in the im-
porters’ windows, a great deal more exhibition of
foreign products than is good for it. Of course
these products are not all foreign, but when the
goods in the unpatriotic trader’s window happen
by chance to be Australian, they are mostly
ticketed as foreign, with intent to deceive. That
public enemy, the importer, has, for his own base
ends, so fostered the idea in times past that
foreign goods are always best, that even if he
changes his mind and sells Australian goods,
it now pays him best to call them
foreign. Under such conditions, this country
requires a whole series of exhibitions of
Australian goods only, so that for once, despite
the importing liar, all articles of Australian
manufacture on view _ will be labelled as Austra-
lian, and Australia will get credit for them. Then
if the public, which sees for the first time what
its country really can do, is satisfied with the
articles, it can decide to buy Australian products.
If it isn’t satisfied, the international exhibition of
foreign goods is always at its disposal. In Sydney
that exhibition stretches from Bridge-street down
to the railway station, and in Melbourne from
Parliament House to near Spencer-street—about
two miles of blastiferous International Exhibition
in each case. Any person who asks for more ex-
hibition than that ranks with the big cuttle-fish
for greed, and is a ravening cormorant to boot.
♦
More Trouble from the North.
Java is starting to give trouble to Australia.
Last year the Commonwealth produced 15,000
tons more sugar than it swallowed; yet nearly
40,000 tons came in from Java, and the importers
were able to undercut Australian sugar on account
of the preposterously low wages ruling in the
Dutch island—lower than the North Queens-
lander ever paid to his Tommy Tanna. If the
Colonial Sugar Cos. were not playing a waiting
game, it would have squealed long before this.
It lies low, however, content with the assurance
that presently the whole crowd of Australians
who are concerned in sugar-growing, will squeal;
and the C.S.R. Cos. knows that it is the
squeal at the ballot-box that counts. Its
rooted belief is in discolored labor of some
sort —any sort of labor, in fact, as long as
it isn’t white. So it seems to have no objection
to Java trickling in just enough sugar to squeeze
down the price to a point at which White Aus-
tralia cannot make a decent living with white
labor. Then, of course, with the industry in
despair, it will have ready-made the best of argu-
ments—from the short-sighted commercial point
of view—in favor of again painting North Aus-
tralia yellow, brown, black, and piebald, and
putting on a permanent coat this time. So Aus-
tralia must keep its eye open. It mustn’t let this
Java trade grow. It must even take steps to
block what trade there already is. If Australia
were justified in adopting the black-labor crutch,
supposing it got one of its limbs of industry
crushed, that is no reason why Australia should
put its limb where it will get crushed. It had far
better put its limb out of danger ; and there’s no
such place of safety in the present circumstances
as behind a high tariff wall.
Items from Monkeydom.
London Daily Telegraph (18/l/’07) casts some
more of the bull’s-eye of publicity on the Jap :—
Loyal as English opinion is to pur Japanese allies, it
would be foolish to blind ourselves to the fact that
Japan’s ascendancy in the Far East is not by any means
giving universal satisfaction. In Korea, feeling against
the officials who are acting under the Marquis Ito and
against the police and military authorities is very bitter
indeed. A Seoul newspaper printed in English, the
Korean Daily News, remarks: “ Korean people have
been, and still are being, forcibly dispossessed of their
property at the nod of a Japanese commander, and
there are already many cases where land taken in this
way has been devoted to uses other than military. In
some instances Japanese farmers are now growing crops
upon ground from which the Korean owners were
evicted less than two years ago. It is true that a
meagre payment has been made for some of the land
thus taken, but, as a proof of its utter inadequacy, we
may cite an instance which came under our notice in
the north, where a Korean who was able to prove that he
had just refused Y180 for his ground, was evicted by
the Japanese Army authorities and only paid Y20. All
ranks act upon an apparent conviction that the Korean
people have no claim to consideration in their own
country. Those in the army are either unaware of, or
ignore, the fact that the position which Japan has
ostensibly assumed in Korea is not that of conqueror,
but that'of protector and guide.”
Discussing the kindred topic of the position in Man-
churia, the China Gazette says: “Japan has taken
Russia’s place in the leased territory of Kuantung, and is
making it unprofitable for a single white man to go there.
Japan, using the Manchuria Railway Company as her
instrument, is creating a monopoly in Southern Man-
churia, which makes the annexation of the country
merely a question of time. The port of Neicchivang, a
British-opened port, where Englishmen have handled the
trade of Manchuria for nearly half a century, is being so
shackled by Japanese ingenuity, and so flooded by
thousands and tens of thousands of Japanese, that the
white trader is almost doomed. The Japanese advance
has reached as far as Kuanchengtzu, which is nearly 500
miles north of Port Arthur, and from the limit of their
railway zone they are now pouring men and women by
the thousand into Northern Manchuria. The Chinese
army is being armed with cast-off Japanese cannon and
muskets, sold at fabulous profits ; Japanese officers are
teaching Chinese soldiers as much as it is deemed wise
for them to know at the present moment; and in
Japanese schools and academies Chinese youths are being
made to believe that the European is now a totally un-
necessary luxury, and his continued presence an insult to
the Chinese Empire.
An astonishing case of brutality to a marine at the
Japanese naval station of Yokosuka is being investigated
by the authorities, and it is stated that over twenty per-
sons are involved. As related in the Eastern newspapers
the story is that a marine, named Yamada, was sus-
pected of stealing a comrade’s cap, and a petty officer,
called Mashita, ordered recourse to corporal punishment
to extort a confession. This he admitted to Lieutenant
Komatsu, who carried out a preliminary investigation.
Yamada was suspended from the ceiling and whipped
with wire ropes. He raised screams of agony, whereupon
the men crammed a tenugui (Japanese towel) into the
wretched victim’s mouth ; but, unable to endure the
pain, he convulsively swallowed nearly half of the im-
promptu gag. The astonished petty officer, Mashita,
drew out the tenugui, but the violence employed
appears to have injured the internal vessels of the
aesophagus, and the poor man vomited large quanti-
ties of blood, became insensible, and afterwards died.
When he was lowered from the ceiling the joints of both
arms were dislocated.
Nowadays it is hard to find one writer who has a
good word to say for the Jap. The Monkey has
brushed off the smile that made him look such a
good little Monkey, and there is plain Gorilla
underneath.
The Disarmament Idea.
The disarmament scheme which the British
Government proposes to put before the Hague
Convention never looked very hopeful, and the
more details come to hand the less promising it
appears. Its main feature seems to be that
Britain proposes to maintain a navy equal to the
next two largest European navies combined, and,
if the other European Powers will reduce the
weight and expense of their sea armaments,
Britain —always maintaining the two-Power
standard—willdo likewise. Supposing the next two
biggest European navies muster nine and 11 first-
class ironclads, Britain will be content with 20
first-class ironclads, and so with cruisers and other
vessels ; if the next two biggest European navies
count 19 and 21 first-class ironclads, Britain will
maintain 40, and so on. But the other European
States are not likely to see the point. Their
view of the case is probably something like this :—
(1) The proposed disarmament is to mean the peaceful
surrender to Britain of control of the sea for all time.
(2) It is to leave the sea-borne commerce of every other
European State at the mercy of Britain while Britain’s
commerce will be fairly well safeguarded.
(3) Ibis toleave every European country with a seaboard
open to invasion, or at least to blockade, by Britain, while
Britain, with its preponderating fleet, will be fairly safe.
(4) Britain has annexed almost all the good, empty,
fertile, convenient places of the earth where white
colonisation on a large scale is possible (barring those
places in South America from which Uncle Sam warns off
all intruders). Britain, with Canada, Australia, and
Maoriland as outlets, may grow to be an empire of
500,000,000 white people. France and Germany can only
send their surplus populations over sea to become sub-
jects of a foreign Power, and to be gradually absorbed
and lost in a foreign race. Therefore Britain’s proposal is
practically a suggestion that, Bull having got pretty
nearly all there is to get, there should be a general agree-
ment to sit down in peace and not call his title in question.
(5) The proposal only comes when, for the first time in
more than a century, there seems a possibility of a real
marine rival appearing on the horizon, and therefore
looks partly selfishness and partly scare.
In short, one Power at least is likely to reply to
Britain in a few short words : “ When we reach
the -position that you are in to-day, we will also
be ready to talk disarmament.” And for a
fiercely ambitious State, the attitude is under-
standable. When Holland had command of the
sea, Britain would listen to no schemes of dis-
armament till it had sunk Holland. When France
held Canada and a great part of India, and
the Dutch held the Cape of Good Hope,
there was no mention of disarmament till
Britain had gathered in the lot. And now
the price of too much empire is ceaseless
vigilance and a chronic inability to sleep o’
nights, and States which grudge Britain all
this empire do not see why they should make the
price any less. If the greatest earth-swallower in
history has acquired more frontiers that it can
defend, and more niggers than it can manage, it
is no one’s business to ease the burden by re-
ducing the danger of attack. Those who were
despoiled in times past are rather pleased than
otherwise if the plunder is too heavy to carry. In
this troubled world a big empire needs a big army
to defend it, and the idea of making a special
arrangement, so that the biggest empire of all may
be allowed to enjoy the fruits of conquest with-
out paying for the big army, isn’t likely to
appeal to a hungry despot like William of
Germany. Britain and Britain’s foreign posses-
sions, with hardly an exception—can only be
attacked by sea, while all Britain’s European
rivals have on their minds the night-
mare of both sea and land defence.
The proposed disarmament would still leave
them with the two nightmares on hand,
and meanwhile Britain, unapproachable by
land, and secured from worry at sea by the
guarantee of its rivals that the biggest of them
would limit its fleet to about half that of the
United Kingdom, could lean its trident against
the bedpost at night and slumber comfortably.
Britain would be freed from what is practically
its only visible danger. Germany would be in as
much danger from France and Russia as ever, for,
even if armies are reduced all round, it is as
unpleasant and often as costly to be licked by
400,000 men as by 1,500,000; and it would be in
greater danger should trouble arise with Britain,
having given up, by the disarmament treaty, all
hope of building a navy that could hold its own
against the floating Bull. That is how Germany
would assuredly look at the matter. Russia
would probably reply that it has no longer
much to lose at sea, and that the only
thing that interests it is the question of
some reliable guarantee that Japan will
disarm on land. All parties will probably want
to know if Britain proposes to renounce the Jap
alliance ; and will suggest that its offer to only
maintain a fleet equal to the two next largest
European navies is a mere confidence trick
if, by way of having a card up its sleeve and a
spare ace in its boots, it has the Jap fleet at its
disposal as well. Also, they will probably in-
quire if Japan is to reduce its fleet, or if it is
simply proposed that Continental Europe shall
lay up its ships and leave itself open to a Jap
blockade. Altogether the prospect isn’t good for
disarmament.
» .
Maoriland’s New Ideas about Land.
Some little part of Maoriland has reached a lucid
interval in its borrowing madness. When John
McKenzie helped Ballance to pass a Land for
Settlements Act, cash for the State resumption of
private estates was obtained from Cohen ; and
ever since that time the circumstance that money
was required for land settlement has been put for-
ward to justify another and yet another visit to
the pawnshop. But Robert MoNab, the mode-
rately new Lands Minister, set out with the
astounding public statement that large estates
may be subdivided without the assistance
of the habitual loan; and Maoriland is
still disturbed about it. McNab’s proposals pro-
vide for the compulsory sale, within ten years, of
that portion of any estate in excess of £50,000
unimproved value, and the limitation of estates
acquired in the future to £15,000. Primarily
through the appearance of the State in the market
as a buyer, the value of land has steadily gone
up, until it is well-nigh impossible for any farmer
to pay interest on the price and make a decent
living. Maoriland Parliament votes a sum
annually for the purchase of estates, and the land
has to be bought. Knowing this, the per-
sons who acquired a small kingdom from
the simple natives in the early days have put a
fictitious price on their holdings. It is true
the Assessment Court finally decides the price,
but that judicial tribunal usually strikes a
medium, and as the sheep person’s quotation is
near the roof, the medium is so high that you can’t
leach it without a ladder. The values of adjoining
lands are influenced, and presently earth on the
ranges will be sold at per foot or by the lb. McNab
proposes to withdraw the Government from
the land deal business, and to compel the sheep-
growing individual to pass on the surplus portion
of his estate directly to the people who want
to grow families. For some time past the arro-
gant large landholder has been casting around for
a suitable brick to throw at the proposal, and he
has found it in the eternal cry for the freehold.
The Farmers’ Union, which the big squatter rules,
denounces the proposed limitation of estates as
an invention of the city Socialist, who, it is said,
meditates the resumption in the hazy future of all
freehold lands, and the conversion of the country’s
backbone into an army of rack-rented slaves.
Money lenders and boodlers, who would be pre-
vented by the £15,000 limit from holding little
principalities for speculative purposes, join in the
anti-Bill crusade, and remark fiercely that they
will be compelled to realise their mortgages, raise
the rate of interest, and play up generally.
Branches of the Farmers’ Union have also
met and passed choleric resolutions about the
freeholds; these were telegraphed far and wide,
tilL the small farmer rose and cursed the “out-
rageous scheme of dispossession.” The freehold
brick has, therefore, so far fulfilled expectations
that small farmers who climbed to affluence by
the leasehold ladder have been induced to address
their fellow dupes at meetings, which have inva-
riably ended in cheers for the freehold. The fact
that, largely owing to the absurd prices which
buyers have been forced to pay (or owe),
£60,000,000 worth of freehold land in M.L. is held
under mortgage —in which case the freehold is
little more than a name—is lost sight of for the
moment. Likewise, the miserable private tenants
who are paying rent on boom-priced land, and
the others who would be tenants if rents were not
so outrageous, are overlooked. Moreover, it isn’t
mentioned that “the outrageous scheme of dis-
possession” only dispossesses one man to give
possession to, perhaps, a hundred others. It is,
perhaps, the biggest scheme for putting the dis-
possessed into possession that Maoriland has yet
seriously discussed. Yet the small farmers kick—
it is a shocking thing that the longer a man
is on the soil, the more readily he becomes
the tool of the immense landowner, whose
barbed-wire fencing is blocking the outlet for
the energies of his own sons and daughters.
Opposition leader Massey and the Tory press
have remarked, to embarrass the Government,
that an increase in the graduated land-tax would
be infinitely preferable to the new Bill, and at
length McNab has grimly advised them not to
tempt him. A heavy tax would be more calcu-
lated to throw the whole of the large estates,
without limitation and sans 10 years’ grace, on to
the market at one time, which would be an un-
pleasant thing for the owners. McNab said he
didn’t want that, so he would stick to his Land
Bill. The Tory press, encouraged, redoubled its
arguments in favor of the land-tax. Then affable
Premier Ward scared it by remarking, at
Auckland, on the eve of his jaunt to Britain, that
after all Parliament might impose a heavier land-
tax. The announcement, which was made with the
idea of leaving things unruffled, caused con-
sternation undreamed of by Joseph. The Tory
press hastens to say that if the Land Bill is
bad, an increased land-tax is not good, and the
angered papers bitterly reproach the Govern-
ment with lack of courage to stick to its
own Land Bill. Meantime McNab is plodding
from platform to platform with his Bill in his
hand, and he is making a fight that does him
credit. He is showing no lack of courage, at any
rate.
♦
Back to the Land.
Austin Chamberlain, who inherits the eye-glass
of his father in the British House of Commons,
has been telling England that “ if the tariff reform
policy were coupled with the cry of ‘ Back to the
land’ many of the difficulties confronting that
policy would be removed.” And the man who
reads this can only say in a faint voice tha,t Saul
has not yet been quite dragged by the hair from
out of the congregation of the prophets. Chamber-
lain junior, looking dimly through the goggle of
his ancestors, just about perceives the beginning
of a great truth. The people of England need to
get back to the land—if only the big landlord
were obliterated for ever, and they could go back
as a nation of small farmers, each cultivating his
bit of soil, and with a tariff that would provide
him with a fairly profitable market for his pro-
duce. But no one in Britain seems to have the
courage to obliterate the big and sacred land-
lord, and Britain wanders from one device to
another in the effort to put things right—things
that won’t be put right while the big landed
incubus is above ground. This is the British
tariff record in brief :—
(1) Britain had Protection and the big landlord. It
had a great agriculture then, and was able to feed itself
almost entirely, instead of being, as it is now, in such a
position that it is the only nation on earth which could
be starved into submission by a very few weeks’ blockade.
(2) But the big landlord charged such high rents that
the price of British-grown wheat had to be high in order
that the agricultural tenant could meet the useless and
bloated person’s exactions. Britain felt this was an evil,
and instead of trying to cheapen food by abolishing the
big landlord, and by encouraging the cultivation of every
possible inch of the country by a peasant proprietary, and
thus making the local food supply exceed the local
demand, it tried Freetrade and the big landlord. Not
daring to abolish the landlord, who was useless, it set out
to abolish the tenant, who was useful.
(3) Britain then, as already mentioned, had Freetrade
and the big landlord. It got cheap food. But its agri-
culturists couldn’t compete with the imported food, and
at the same time pay the high rent to the big landlord,
and also pay the monstrous direct taxation which had
to be levied on the British citizen in order to avoid
taxing the foreigner at the Customs. And the big land-
lord didn’t suffer much after all; he found that he could
make just about as much (sometimes more) by laying the
land waste, and turning it into preserves for wild animals,
to be shot at in the name of sport.
(4) So Britain went on having Freetrade and the big
landlord. It lost the bulk of its agricultural population—
the men who used to fill the ranks of its armies, and win
its battles. Its soldiers so degenerated that the army
which never lost a battle, no matter what the odds, against
the splendid French veterans in the Peninsula, became
the army which never won a battle except with immense
odds in its favor (and often not then) against the Boer
farmer-militia in South Africa. And agriculture was
killed 50 dead that Britain now <*nly growr enough food
to supply its own needs two months in the year, and might
be starved into submission even in a successful naval war
against European enemies. For the fact remains that
unless, in addition to beating or bottling up the enemies’
fighting fleet, it could police the whole route to America
to prevent its food ships being intercepted, it might,
if faced by a combination of two or three European
Powers, starve in the midst of victory. But still Britain
has solved the problem of getting cheap food without
disturbing its big landlord.
(5) And now Britain grows alarmed, for the country’s
dependence on foreign food supplies is so compete, and
there are so many food routes to protect to keep the
Home.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. William Hogan, the well-known importer, is
leaving for Home by the R.M.S. Caractacus on Saturday
next. — Sydney Fawning Herald.
He’s going “ Home ” —
Old Hogan’s Bill,
From Dingo Hill,
Who left the mullock-shifting show
When Sydney called, some years ago.
He struck it rich there, sold old clo’,
Enlarged his sphere, became a co.;
And, groping after fame,
An importer he became.
Each south-bound vessel to his lair
Consignments brought of English ware
(Brown-paper boots
And shoddy suits),
Till William grew in opulence,
Made pounds where others made but pence,
And thought of going “ Home.”
Yes, going “ Home ” !
And straightway we
A vision see
Of William reaching Dingo Hill,
Brown heaps of mullock lying still,
The while a welcome rises shrill
From Hogan pere to long-lost Bill,
Returning home at last.
But, gentles, not so fast;
His thoughts are of another “ Home ” —
The country whence his gew-gaws come,
The land of dooks
And Freetrade spooks ;
He goes to seek a fresh supply
Of shirts and hats and hosiery.
Yes, William’s going “Home.”
The Hogans’ home,
On Dingo Hill,
Is standing still;
But propped and patched and falling fast,
Great gaping cracks admit each blast.
Old Hogan sees the years fly past,
Wondering if each will be his last.
He draws his meagre pay
On Old Age Pension day,
Talks politics and such-like stuff,
And says “ Australia’s right enough ! ”
Whilst Bill hobnobs
With English snobs,
Cries Stinking Fish all undismayed,
And spreads the gospel of Freetrade
Amongst his friends at “ Home.”
N.S.W.
VRLDT.


United Kingdom from starvation, that an almost in-
calculable navy hardly makes it feel secure. It remembers
that in the Napoleonic wars, despite the utter destruction
of all hostile fleets by Nelson and his colleagues, it lost
some 10,000 merchant ships—taken by swift little waspish
vessels which dodged its big fleets—and it kept losing
them till the end oi the war, and it realises that if the
next victorious sea campaign pans out similarly it may
be a lost country. It isn’t afraid of defeat at sea, but
of hunger on land.
(6) So Austin Chamberlain, seeing half the subject
dimly through his ancestor’s monocle, urges the people
to adopt Protection and go back to the land—and toil
again for the big landlord. But the big landlord might
not let the people back, being satisfied with the profits of
his game preserves. Or, if he did let them back, he would
heap up his rents again, and the price of food would be
forced by his exactions just as high as the Protective
tariff would allow. And Britain wouldn’t grow enough
food for its own consumption after all, partly because
the great landlords would still keep a huge proportion of
the land out of cultivation for purposes of sport; partly
because the remainder would be cultivated feebly by a
spirit-broken race bowed down by the exactions of the
big landlord.
Therefore, things get back to the old point that
there is mighty little to be done for Britain till it
gets rid of the big landlord, and establishes a
peasant proprietary, and takes rigid measures to
prevent any new race of landlords arising. And
Britain, apparently, would rather perish than do
anything severe to its big landlord, so it is difficult
to say what it really can do for itself.
♦
The Private Enterprise Muddle.
President Roosevelt arose the other day to
allege that Private Enterprise railway manage-
ment in the United States had practically broken
down. According to Strong Man Theodore,
“ the railroads are no longer able to move crops
and goods rapidly enough to secure the prompt
transaction of the nation’s business, and the only
complete remedy is a system of complementary
water transport.” Yet the United States has
more railway mileage in proportion to its popula-
tion than any other countries on earth save Aus-
tralasia and Canada, and more railway in pro-
portion to its area than all save about half-a-
dozen countries in this world. And when the
amount of production is compared with the means
of carrying the products, the United States seems
vastly better off than Australia, which has no
Mississippi or Missouri, or Great Lakes to
relieve the pressure on its railway system,. The
unspeakable muddlement of Private Enterprise
seems to be the whole secret of the U.S. railway
congestion—a congestion which threatens to be-
come a partial collapse. The U.S. railway system
exists partly to carry goods in the ordinary way ;
partly to give special facilities to favored cus-
tomers and to block the trade of the rivals of these
favored customers; partly to conduct wars and
skirmishes with rival railways ; mostly as a Stock
Exchange gambling counter—a thing to be boomed
or wrecked to suit the exigencies of Stock Ex-
change jobs, a machine for freezing out weak
shareholders when there is a big “operation” on
the board, a vehicle for elaborate financial devices
in the flotation of debentures, and the rigging of
the market with preference stock, and ordinary
stock, and first and second mortgages, and liens,
and all manner of sundries. In fact, there is so
much “high finance” (which is really low swindle)
about the U.S. Private Enterprise railways that
the plain, ordinary purpose of their existence—
the swift, safe and cheap dragging of people and
goods from one point to another—is apt to become
a mere secondary consideration. No man can
drive a coach and play poker at the same time if
he wants to do justice to both undertakings, and
all over the haulage department of the U.S.
Private Enterprise railways there is mismanage-
ment and confusion, and the raw haste which is
twin sister to delay, and the raw muddle which
is twin sister to smash. The U.S. railways, in
fact, are the U.S. life assurance scandal over again
—only worse.
After the Victorian elections the Labor-leaguers
chose a mournful and distressing way of spending
their Sunday afternoon. They put up on a plat-
form in Fitzgerald’s Circus building three or four
Labor candidates who had been successful in
getting into Parliament, and then a long succes-
sion of seven doleful persons who had fought on
the same ticket, and failed. These seven per-
sons made various excuses for the fact that
tlie constituencies had mostly preferred Bent
to the more-or-less remarkable crowd that
now rallies round the Trades Hall. Beard* who
was defeated by a colorless “local ” Ministerialist
in Jika Jika, said that he had been floored by
“poison circulated by vilifying sectarians.”
Oolechin, the weird person who used to sit for
Geelong (which has now chosen an equally weird
representative in the bald-crowned Gtjrr), said
that the bosses had put obstacles in the way of
men getting on the rolls. Solly (thrown heavily
aside by Richmond in favor of George Bennett)
said “the workers did not understand the
movement.” Evans (who tried to displace larky
Willie Watt at Essendon) blamed an insolent
personal attack made by Bent. Wrout, trying
in Gippsland, had expected a licking. Flinn,
who could not get the Melbourne seat, said wildly
that he had contended with “ howling dervishes,
who fought with the weapon of the assassin,”
and he added that “the black-coated working
men were a sneaking lot.” Then they all joined
in a chorus, declaring that the Labor League
politics suffered from “wantof organisation.” It
was right here that they went wrong. The Labor
organisation is exactly the same as it always was.
There is a central body ; and there are branches
all oyer the State ; and there are earnest and en-
thusiastic officials working as hard as they know
how to drag the waggon along. But the political
flag of Labor nowadays is suspected of being half
folly and half tote-shop. The “apathy ” is not due
to faults in the organisation, but to faults in the
politics. Labor gained a great part of the legisla-
tion it wanted, when it worked in alliance with the
Liberal party. When it gave this up, and began
to be boosted by the impracticable and the im-
possible, its progress stopped short, and but for
the fine quality of its organisation and the earnest-
ness of its minor officials, a much more definite
retrogression would have set in.
■
S.M. Herald, of March 21, in a leading article on
“Young Criminals,” asks for “a taste of the cat”
to supplement the imprisonment and hard labor
the law at present provides. Some years ago the
cat was a lively animal in N.S.W. gaol yards, and
the daily press reporters wrote it up with great
enthusiasm. R. E. O’Connor, however, while
N.S.W. Minister of Justice, excluded press-
men from these performances, and the Sydney
press hasn’t felt really good to O’Connor
since. The S.M. Herald was a heavy-flogging
paper from its infancy. In the early days, when
employers, who were all J’s.P., sent their '“dis-
obedient hands ” to brother employers to be con-
victed and flogged oft-hand, the Herald reckoned
that the system was all right, and that the cat
was the saviour of the country. At one period,
the Governor of the day placed restrictions on the
cat industry, and the Herald threatened a revolu-
tion. Here is what Parson Lang wrote of the cat
party of that day
It was not civil and religious liberty—that pearl of
inestimable price in the eyes of our forefathers—for
which these Australian worthies petitioned ; it was for a
somewhat different species of liberty, the liberty to lash ;
and long and deep were the groans they uttered, through
their favorite organ, the Sydney Herald, when they
found the liberty denied them.
Chowth Africa, as described to Sydney Tele-
graph by Mr. C. D. Rodgers, one of a big batch
of wiser Australians, who returned by the
Hymettus the other day :
The country is in a bad plight. By this boat 130 came
away, and the majority of them are good tradesmen.
There are hundreds who are anxious to get away, but
they have no money, and many of those who are in work
are so disgusted with the prevailing conditions that if it
were not for their wives and families they would throw
it all up and leave the country. Things are getting
worse. Employers of labor are taking advantage of the
bad times, and are now offering wages that a man can’t
live upon. On the railway on which I was employed
there were starting checkers at 6s. per day, but rents
and prices of clothing still kept up. At Capetown, not
long ago, they had married men on relief works at 3s. 6d.
per day, and municipalities gave work to white men at
wages paid to Kaffirs—2s. and 2s. 6d. per day. The
Kaffirs are doing a lot of work that was at one time given
to white men. They live in locations outside the town,
and the tax they have to pay for this, combined with
their food bills, amounts to about 10s. per month.
Trade is absolutely dead. Prosperous merchants of a
year or two back are shutting down, and the small shops
are following suit. This applies all round —Johannes-
burg, Pretoria, Pietermaritzburg, Bloemfontein, Durban,
East London, and so on. Pietermaritzburg is practically
empty, and there is nothing but shops to let. At East
London, also, there is no business, but the valuation of
the borough is kept up in order to get the rates. As for
Johannesburg and Durban, crowds are always to be seen
about the streets looking for work. Of course the in-
troduction of colored labor is a big factor in the de-
pression. Large batches of Indian coolies are con-
tinually arriving. At Johannesburg there must be 60,000
or 70,000 Chinese coolies working in the mines. The im-
portation of Indian coolies is killing Natal. They are
much more intelligent than Kaffirs, and they have
already driven the white man out of some of his former
occupations. For instance, they have the vegetable and
produce trade entirely in their own hands. Everything
the people wear, eat, or use in S’AfriCa is imported—
there are no industries.
Cheap Asiatic labor and Freetrade—the two
devils whose tails Bruce Smith caresses so affec-
tionately—are enough to ruin any country, and
they promise to bring back to South Africa the
good old times when the elephant and the monkey
foregathered in the streets of Capetown.
♦
There is nothing on earth more like Queensland’s
Bob Philp than the railway line which straggles
out to Richmond —a long thin streak, which starts
from Townsville, wanders around promiscuously,
and pulls up at nowhere in particular, leaving a
vast cloud of debt behind it. And there is
nothing which better shows the difference
between Philp and Kidston than what has
happened to that line. A couple of hun-
dred miles further on is Cloncurry. As
M.P. for Townsville for 18 years, merchant of the
same port long before that, and twice Minister
for Mines, Philp has known Cloncurry for close
on 30 years, and for nearly that long he has
talked in the usual vague way about the need of
giving it a railway. But there were rival routes,
and the vague, promiscuous Philp hung himself
up between them, and smiled on everybody, and
did the usual nothing in particular—and mean-
time frittered away a few borrowed millions to
make a pretence of doing something while he
made up his mind what to do about the things
he said really wanted doing. Then Kidston, who
didn’t come from Townsville, whs invited to con-
sider the long streak of line that ended nowhere,
and the prospects of the country beyond it. That
was 18 months ago—only as many months as
Philp has been years M.P. for Townsville—and
now the line is being raced out towards Clon-
curry at the rate of 17 miles a month. That’s
the difference between Kidston and Philp.
Philp promises ; Kidston performs.
♦
S.M. Herald’s “On the Band ” column
(19/3/’O7): —
The cable announced the other day that large quan-
tities of wine made in Germany were perfect strangers to
the grape. These alleged products of the vineyard were
manufactured from any cheap vegetable matter that will
make white spirit, and most villainously adulterated with
chemical compositions, in order that their origin may be
disguised. ... It is well known that pure brandy is one
of the rarest articles in the trade; in fact, very little is
sold in Australia save tiie small quantities which are
made in this country. Our growers, who are so far
disposed to produce a pure brandy, are compelled
to compete with the colored rubbish distilled from
potatoes, and introduced as pure brandy. ... If all
kinds of villainous compounds are allowed to
squeeze the genuine article out by reducing prices
to an unprofitable level, the producer must suc-
cumb to disgracefully unfair competition. At the
present time there are indications that leading people
engaged in the v-ine industry are prepared to invest
capital and display the greatest enterprise in producing
first-class brandies and wines, and making a reputation
for themselves in the large centres of population. A few'
protective regulations, drastically administered, would
enable them to defeat the fraudulent products of the
adulterators.
There is in the Herald’s “ On the Dust ” column
a lot of good, honest, national and Protectionist
sentiment that contrasts oddly with the untidy
howl of the rest of the paper for imports and
Johnson.
At the recent Yic. State elections a
suburban candidate had a rather novel method of
bringing his name before the public. Along the
railway lines that run through his district his
canvassers supplied sympathetic householders
with flagpoles and flags. These were affixed to
the roof, or put on some other conspicuous place.
Each flag bore the appeal—“ Vote for Bloodkins,
your old steamed and fried candidate.” The
innovation was very successful for the first few
days, there being a continuous, gentle breeze
hovering round the vicinity. But, alas ! a wind-
less spell arrived, and the rain fell steadily and
heavily, and the flags drooped, and the legend,
became just blotch.
It is not often that an invention is of general
application. Usually the inventor devotes himself to
filling a want in one trade ; but the Tyree Spray proves
an exception. It has now been adopted
liy Pastoralists for spraying ewes in lamb,
by Farmers for spraying dairy cows,
by Orchardists for spraying fruit trees,
by Vignerons for spraying vines,
by Dairymen for white-washing dairies,
by Butter Factories for white-washing factories,
by Skin Buyers for painting skins,
by the Health Department for disinfecting,
by Warehousemen for white-washing and disinfecting,
by the Public Schools for sanitary purposes,
by Landowners for killing prickly pear,
by Suburban Residents for killing lantana,
by the Government Department for oil painting,
by Gardeners for killing aphis, scale, etc.,
by Hotelkeepers for fire extinguishing and disinfecting,
by the Hospitals for all purposes,
by Schoolmasters for teaching sanitary science,
by Municipal Councils for oiling streets,
by Banks for spraying dirty notes,
by the Public generally for all purposes.
Make no mistake, the Tyree Spray pays for itself th-'
first week it is used. Send for printed matter, 314
George-etreet, Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “Robin Hood.”
Criterion “ The Village Blacksmith.”
Palace “Mrs. Gorringe's Necklace.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
Exhibition Ground Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Co.: “ Lohengrin ”
and “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal “Revenge.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade .. Dreamland.
The ass’s skin that the world wears when
it crowns Humbug king has a good deal to do
with the success of pantomimes like “Mother
Goose,” which, after running from Christmas to
Easter in Melbourne, opened at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, on Saturday night. “The Tivoli, did
you say ? A variety, music-hall show ! and
Mrs. de Grundeigh is surprised that you should
ask whether she has been there lately. But
wouldn’t she dearly love to ! (And, perhaps,
hasn’t she been, after all—“ Just popped in after
the interval, you know,” if you happen to
surprise her there.) Pantomime, as it is made
in 1907, is Australian music-hall or variety
show, with a little more glitter on the dress,
a little more exhibition of the limbs that
are rude than an Australian better-class music-
hall would venture, and a thin wisp of a plot show-
ing at long intervals. In essentials, however, the
two are the same, and when we marvel that
“ Mother Goose ” ran a hundred nights or so in
Melbourne, it really isn’t any more marvellousthan
that H. Rickards keeps his full houses going year
in and year out, with, for months at a time, hardly
any change in the bill worth mentioning. *
It is simply the type of the show that
makes it the success it is. In itself it has no
special, particular qualities. The music is undis-
tinguished. The dialogue, with a few bright
exceptions—Harry Shine’s bogus extract from
“Bradshaw’s” railway guide, for instance
—is not very keen or sparkling. But all
the time it is cheerful, the fare is of
the most varied character, the ballets are
very fine (the best of all is the floral one, in which
Australia’s waratahs and kangaroos are con-
spicuous figures), and the pictorial and mechanical
effebts are as opulent as one might expect from a
J. C. Williamson management and a J. C. Wil-
liamson staff. As principal boy, Miss Florence
Young has nothing to do that will add to her
reputation, and of course she does it in her usual
downright, merry, confident manner; Miss Mor-
rell, as principal girl, is an all-round disappoint-
ment, with a thin voice of average quality, and
no graces in her methods ; Harry Phydora, the
principal comedian, is brisk and bustling, and is
very well seconded by Harry Shine, before-men-
tioned ; the animal “ impersonators ” give a
quaint and clever exhibition ; and Miss Preston,
the Little Dartos, and a host of others, make up
a show that is bound to be a popular success.
* Jif * *
West’s Pictures and the Brescians, who
combine the tuneful song with the moving
picture—West’s pictures move with a minimum of
flicker. The Bulletin has found, come to inhabit
the Lyceum Theatre, Sydney, for the Easter
season.
iif * * *
Regarded as a play, “ Mrs. Gorringe’s
Necklace ” isn’t a jewel of the first water, but it
sparkles brightly, and once or twice—as, for
instance, where the heroine announces her mar-
riage—there is a quite unexpected glitter. That
wedding at the registry-office is sprung on the
audience just as the said audience is thinking
that the necklace would admit of the abbreviation
of a tuck, or a reef or two. The Brough-
Flemming co. presented the jewel to a crowded
and enthusiastic house on Saturday night
at Sydney Palace. The persons who make up the
setting of the “Necklace” are most interestingly
and humorously stupid. Mrs. Gorringe, who
loses her precious gaud, is the kind of woman who
would drive a hostess crazy in a week’s visit, but
with all a week’s stupidity crowded into two-and-
three-quarter hours, and run through the mind-mill
of a smart dramatist, she’s a fascinating person.
Miss Madeline Meredith plays the “guffy ” r6le,
and Miss Bessie Major that of her be-crazed
hostess, Mrs. Jardine. Miss Major is very fine in
her delineation of alternate feminine purringsand
scratchings. Miss Beatrice Day—very charming
with her gold head and white frock, and her inno-
cent role of Isabel —supplies, along with
Herbert Flemming, the principal brains and
seriousness of the play. Carter Pickford, as
David Cairn, represents the tragedy. Fortu-
nately, he trages out of sight of the audience.
Gregan M‘Mahon, who mostly polishes a small,
road-metal bit of a part into a precious stone
aspect, is the dismal detective Jernigan; and
a young damsel, programmed as Miss Gordon
Lee, is the terrible infant Vicky. She i
humorously terrible, but her voice wants a rub on
an oilstone and then a run through a polishing
lrl An ,f ?® yn ? f i Colonel Jardine is a de-
lightful old red-haired blunderer.
Wonderland’s Wonderful Wreck, promised
for Saturday night, was postponed. The si -•
was strong, and the captain of the wreck that
was to be wrecked feared that a marine disast«
ml ?ht occur if the wreck started to take libert: .
with Ocean—tnat mighty monster so dear to the
hearts of singers and melodramatists.
* * *- *
The most imposing feature of Wirth Bros 1
huge show and zoo is the finished quality of the
work. Every act has been polished and ,7
polished, and the performances go so smootliv
that people do not realise that it is only the sk i
of the artists that prevents a succession of startlin'
tragedies. Consider what might happen if trail "
Marco just for once failed to keep up the artio'
grace with which he looks down the lion’s ne
and examines the back of the animal’s wisdtm,
teeth. Then there are many possibilities „j
broken necks and other things about the Flyin-
Herberts’ turn. It is one thing to fall into
a net by premeditation, and quite another
to flop into it unexpectedly after missing &
flying trapeze in mid-air. Sometimes, also, the
net proves ineffectual, and the falling sky-rocket
goes clean through it. Then there are more
dread possibilities if little May Martin should
forget how to untie herself. This truly mar-
vellous youngster, although seemingly a baby
still, is quite an old hand at Wirths’, and easily
upholds the twisting supremacy of the white race
over the yellow, which is, in this case, repre-
sented by Sampei Osado. Osado twists to such
purpose that, although he starts brown, he is a
dull purple when he finishes. What the writer
mostly wonders is what would happen if some-
one punctured him justashe got his head and shoul-
ders back over his own hind-quarters and nicely
between his own knees. The desire to puncture
him is overwhelming and fascinating, and the deed
itself is inevitable. Philip Wirth has something
extra-special in his two greys, King Edward and
Emperor William (they ought to have been called
Billjim and Cornstalk, as they were both reared
in N.S.W.). They go through their turn with the
smooth precision of a land agent charging a client
half-a-million. The King is a wonder; he does
the white horse rampant, just as it appears on
Tooth’s beer label, and as it used to float on the
flags of Hengist and Horsa; and he does it
perfectly. Philipina, the lady bare-back rider
and somersaulter, is the embodiment of reck-
lessness. In most circus performances the
horse goes at a very easy pace. Philipina’a
gallops, and that graceful young woman hurls
herself at the brute. Sometimes she lands and
sticks, other times she goes right over, somer-
saulting so as to land on her feet, and a horsey
population goes quite mad. Hugh Patrick Lloyd
seems to have an endless variety of tricks for the
elastic cord, and some of them have blood-curdling
possibilities. Altogether, Wirths’ Circus, which
has always been a good show, is now better than
ever.
** * *
At Sydney Royal “ Robin Hood ” is in its
last fortnight, though not on its last legs. It
showed no sign of being winded as it turned the
corner into the straight, and on present appear-
ances it will finish quite fresh, and without turning
a hair, and full of running, and not bathed in
perspiration at all.
*# * *
At Sydney Criterion Jimmy Ryan’s com-
pany filled in a two-nights interval with a produc-
tion of “East Lynne.” This wet, melancholy
upheaval, which outrages all the proprieties
by having two long, lingering deaths
in one evening, was rendered still more
humorous by a gentleman with a pro-
nounced Irish brogue who played the part of
Archibald Carlyle. He played it excellently—as
excellently as any man could play such a dreary
affair, and the brogue gave a bright relief to
a part which is a calamity. However, Satur-
day night was the last of “East Sin,”
and the company will, by the time this
reaches the public, be in full blast with “ For the
Woman He Loves.” As this paper went to press
a day earlier than usual on account of holiday
exigencies, it had no chance of seeing what he
did, or how he did it, or why he loved her. These
mysteries may be cleared up in next issue.
#* * *
Miss Carrie Lanceley’s benefit concert will
give the soprano some coin. It was crowded.
She appears next (Good) Friday, with Mr.
Andrew 7 Black. After that—Europe and study.
## * *
That prickle-less Scotch thistle, Jessie
Maclachlan, is announced to open at Sydney
Town Hall on Easter Saturday. Besides her-
self, the bunch of attractions is made up of
Douglas Young, tenor, and an important blossom
in the bunch ; John McLinden, ’cellist; Murray
Graham, pianist; and Robert Buchanan, accom-
panist. The Highland Society couldn’t ask for
anything Scotchier, or more melodious, than the
foregoing list of names.
#* * *
The Tivoli has put a holiday face on its
programme by adding the Charlenes and Joseph
Dewhirst. The new Joseph hasn’t yet lived long
enough to develop the streak of unsatisfactoriness
with which Josephs have been afflicted from the
time when Mrs. Potiphar was the judge of the
matter. This Joseph is a boy with a bird
in his throat—a sweet soprano bird that
sings “Killarney” to the gallery and brings
it down every night. A remarkable voice, w'hieh
makes you sad, because you know it can’t long
stay where it is. The Charlenes, Mr. and Mrs.,
bring juggling back among the fine arts; and
Fred Russell’s coster continues to make the same
rude remarks to his ventriloquist boss, to the
great joy of the man who is fresh down from
where the great natural resources grow.
** # *
A big theatre, filled to overflowing, and
besieged by people anxious to spend a crown on
“Standing room only,” stifling atmosphere, ap-
plause solid and sustained, speeches from J- y-
Williamson, Rev. Hillhouse Taylor, and Miss
Tittell Brune—such were the salient > points of
Melbourne’s welcome to “Pa,rsifal,” at Her
Majesty’s. It was a triumph, and the first night
furore is likely to develop into a popular and
financial success. For the expert responsible for
the building of the drama is manifestly
no “Simple Fool” like Parsifal. He is
a wiseacre, capable of angling cunningly tor
the favors of saints and sinners, leg-lovers and
For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date h v i n K
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., o.W
George-street, Sydney, wholesale* jobbers tor
Edison’s phonographs and products.
THE PANTOMIME.
Take a pound of potted prose
And a pint of purling rhyme ;
For the part of Mephistos,
Let the Muse move on in a statelier time.
Pluck a joke from here and there,
Add a quip on current things,
And when there’s a space on the bill of fare,
Drop the lady in who sings ;
Then nail a tack in the pound of prose
(And any old tack will do),
And she’ll hang a song as she wears her clothes,
And Heaven only knows what she hangs them to
(And Heaven don’t tell half the things it knows,
Which is good for us and you).
Then you take the fay with the well-trained toe,
And set her in the whirl that the baldheads know—
Heigh-ho !
(If we’re fifty-five—well, it’s but the flesh ;
The spirit’s twenty, and still a-thresh.)
Take a yard of calico ;
Take a brush and painter’s pot;
Thus mask a man, and so
He masquerades as the ass he’s not.
(Ah, this grey old world of ours,
And lined with furrows of care !
It’s the ass’s skin that has sapped its powers—
The shams it has had to wear !)
But—ah! tripping toes, and the lights burn high—
Nay, tempt us not from Truth !
We’ll write thee an ode, 0 Truth—by-and-bye.
For the present, say was ever a youth
With curves so grateful, so good to the eye ?
(What is fifty-five forsooth !)
Nay, Truth, we love thee, without alloy,
But why won’t you learn from the pantomime
“boy”?
He-hoigh !
(Fifty-five, you say? Nay, we’re all in our prime
When the fairies wheel in the pantomime.)


insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
HOMEOPATHY
FISHER AND COMPANY,
The Leading Homoeopathic Chemists for over 25 years in New South Wales.
ALL PILULES and TINCTURES, FRESH
and POTENT, PREPARED DAILY.
ADVICE FREE.
Sole Agents for the Homoeopathic Journal from London. Fisher and Co.’s Homoeopathic Pocket Guide
posted Free to any part of Australia.
FISHER & COMPANY, The Leading Homceopathic Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, nearly opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY.
souls, hymn-howlers and dance-devotees. Never-
theless, the “Parsifal” playwright has failed,
except fipm a spectacular point of view, to score
an artistic success. The thought of the box office
has been his undoing, and has led him to spoil
his sermon by dallyings with the rosy flesh
and rounded limbs of lightly-clad ladies, and
to dishearten his devilment by scriptural
screed and snatches of sacred song. In
the matters of scenery, wardrobe, and stage
mechanism, “ Parsifal ” is so magnificently
equipped as to be able to ignore any accusations
of insincerity, impropriety, sanctimoniousness,
and cruel lack of artistic value. The earthquake
is the best effect of the kind seen in Melbourne.
* * * *
Ridding the “ Pars’ fal” parable of its
quaint allegorical mask, and putting the inci-
dents into modern form, the tale might be told as
follows: Kundry, a beautiful culprit, loses her
heart to the chief elder of a religious community
which lives at (say) Mt. Macedonor Moss Vale,
and spends its time in Ritualistic services. For
love of her respectable admirer, the beauty wishes
to turn over a new leaf, but suffers from relapses,
when she laughs hysterically at the dull, churchy
ways of the settlement and its King. Also she
receives letters and telephone messages from her
former pals in the Gilded Hells of Melbourne or
Sydney inviting her back to the glad old frisk. One
day Kundry accepts the invitation, to the scandal
of the good men of Lome or Bowral, especially
the elderly ones who, having been taken down by
Kundry’s mamma in their youth, are now in a
position to say, “I told you so,” to the lorn and
lamenting lover. Latter is rash enough to follow
his siren by train to her gay haunts, taking with
him (in the luggage van) the “sacred spear,”
which means youth, good health, and all the
virtues. Kundry, instigated by her low associates,
puts on the thinnest of clingsome white robes, and
in this guise welcomes her mountaineer. As a
result, the demoralised youth takes to alcohol
and opium, loses his money, health, and spirits,
and is not rescued by a deputation of
church members till he has become a wreck.
Contrary. to expectation, his health of mind
and body is not restored by Omeo or Mount Vic-
toria air, partly because he misses his beer, partly
because of Kundry, who, though warned off the
premises, keeps hanging round with sago and
jelly for the invalid. Then a boyish curate,
arriving at Bogong (the place is getting mixed) to
shoot swans, and promises to do what he can to
reform Kundry, and to bring back the spear to her
disconsolate hypochondriac, Rev. Parsifal J. E.
Percival. Now the scapegrace goes to Lilly
Buck-stleet,. and is duped by the hussy’s push
into believing that one pure kiss from a
clergyman will bring the minx to her senses.
Bold girls do shocking dances round poor
little Percy while he stands glaring at a crucifix
held opposite the end of his nose. In spite of
Kundry’s audacious costumes and high kicking,
the kid remains calm, and imprints a fatherly
kiss on the young person’s brow. Just then Aus-
tralia passes through the comet’s tail, and the
Lilly Buck-stleet establishment is dashed into
ruins, only Kundry and his Reverence escaping
with their lives. The prodigal is now repentant,
but before Mr. Percival takes her to the Gipps-
land Lakes, near Bombala, he puts her into the
deaconess’ home, where she stumbles and slips on
the straight path, and faints by the way to re-
spectability owing to the poor thing’s hankering
for champagne, and cigarettes, and fierce red
frocks with no sleeves and very little skirt. At
last her morbid cravings are conquered, and her
spiritual adviser escorts her to Katoomba and
marries her to her lover, who hands over his rule
of the community to Percy and decides to do
mission work (Missions were called “Quests” in
those days) in Lilly Buck-stleet with Kundry.
All the spinsters, who have been decorating the
chapel and wearing away their youth waiting for
the bachelors of the community to perk up again
after the loss of the “ spear,” get married at last,
and only Mr. Percival remains unwed.
* * * *
Miss Titfcell Brune does excellent work as
Kundry, though neither physically nor otherwise
is she cutout for the part. Her most attractive
performance is a simple little recitation at the end,
addressed to the prodigal daughters of to-day.
Kingston is weak as Parsifal, his happiest
moments being those spent as the simple wander-
ing youth of his first scene. Vivian Edwards, as
the Sick King of Grail Mount, has some good
lines to say, notably when they raise him
to his feet to try if the change of posture gives
him any relief. Gaston Mervale cuts a superb and
impressive figure as the high priest of Satanas,
while Miss Susie Vaughan also gives valuable aid
to the picture. Atholwood tosses tempestuous
grey locks as an ancient King, and Beauchamp’s
old knight is an estimable item in a glamorous
spectacle.
** * *
Last week’s mention of the forthcoming
Grand Opera season, at Melbourne Princess’s,
erred in its reference to the scale of prices.
Admission to the d.c. and reserved stalls will cost
seven and sixpence (not ten shillings) for the
evening performances, whilst the matinee prices
remain as usual. “ Lohengrin ” opens the season
on Saturday next, and three more performances of
that stately work of Wagner are to transpire
during, the first week, two pairs of principals
appearing alternately in the parts of Elsa and her
superhuman young man. “Romeo and Juliet,”
on Tuesday and Thursday, will introduce one
other prima donna on one of the nights, and the
matinee bill for Saturday (6th April) will be
“ Hansel and Gretel.” There are sound reasons
for expecting good things of George Musgrove’s
grand opera forces in all respects, and. from the
uttermost depth of its moderately musical soul,
this journal hopes that general gratification will
wait upon expectation, and everything in the
garden will be lovely.
#* * #
The Anderson company is breathing its
last at Melbourne Royal to-night (Wednesday),
and The Squatter’s Daughter ”is receiving its
farewell breath unless the management has made
other arrangements since this Holy Week edition
of The Bulletin went prematurely to press.
“Camille was to cough herself away on
Monday ; “East Lynne” was to dispose of little
Willie on Tuesday. Between the departure of
Anderson and the return of Bland Holt, a Good
Friday concert will happen at the Royal, and on
Saturday the 12 months’ absence of Bland and
his co. will terminate in a first Melbourne produc-
tion of “Revenge,” written by E. Hill-Mitchelson,
and pronounced with a long burry roll on the
“R.”
** * *
Grade Grahame, late of Sydney Tivoli,
looms large on the Easter bill at the Opera House ;
also Frank Hartley, the “Juggling Schoolboy,” is
a new student at the Rickards academy for youths
of uncertain age. As regards the other features
of the entertainment, it may be remarked, with
gratitude, that Brinn no longer invites the Mel-
bourne populace to earn £5 by lifting a sack of
flour. It was a dull depressing subject for any-
body to handle, and the audience in general
would have preferred an invitation to earn a sack
of flour by lifting £5.
** * *
The Rickards Co. has ended its season at
Adelaide Royal with several performances of that
crude assortment of thrills, “ A Modern Judas,”
and one of the good old Tom Taylor “ Ticket of
Leave Man.” Sidney Howard is more effective
in character-parts than as the conventional hero.
The Comic Opera Company is coming for Easter.
Meanwhile, Rickards’ own house, the Tivoli, is
going strong with a bright variety show.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ The Kelly Gang ”is breaking out everywhere. In a
Brisbane version, Mary Byrne, alleged to be Ned Kelly’s
sweetheart, is the heroine. Ned strikes an isolated
mining camp, where he becomes known as “ The English-
man,” and performs many acts of chivalry. When the
police scent him, Mary partly walks and partly rides
thither from Melbourne—soo miles or thereabouts—to
warn him. The play is announced as “ the great, thrill-
ing, vivid, Australian, historical drama;” also it is “a
cyclone of comedy.” Seems no reason why it shouldn’t
be called an oratorio, too, and adapted for special use at
Christmas and Easter.
Benno Scherek, back from Europe, popped up unex-
pectedly in Melbourne the other day with the news that
Madame Theresa Carino, the famous pianiste, will soon
be out here.
Claude Leplast.rier, the Sydney sketch artist, completed
last week his 100th consecutive performance at Sydney
Tivoli—a fine record made possible by the extensive
r ange of his sketch subjects.
• “Melb”: No Australian drama ever caught on here
like “The Squatter’s Daughter.” The play is part of the
Exhibition of Australian Manufactures. Nevertheless it
is a very inferior affair, merely coopered and carpentered
up out of the salmagundi of Andersonian dramas. It is
much below “The Sunny South,” “The Forlorn Hope,”
“ The Squatter,” “The Trump Card,” and others com-
pou ided by George Darrell. It is nothing like so good as
what Walter Cooper used to give Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Julian Thomas (the Vagabond!) had his “No
Mercy ” acted, and it was many cuts above Bert
Bailey and Edmund Duggan. Then there were such
things as the various versions of “Robbery Under Arms,”
and “His Natural Life,”andGrosvenorßunster’s “Class,”
which was acted at Melb. Royal. Former Australian
plays were only regarded with curiosity, like Barnum’s
faked mermaid.
UNDESIRED PROTECTION.
We are trying to protect the Commonwealth.— Argus.
The absence of the Johnnie type of hanger-on was
noted by everybody on the occasion of the departure of
Williamson’s pantomime crowd from Melbourne. The
co. had changed its duds, bundled its belongings into a
bag, and galloped for the special, timed to leave at mid-
night-just one hour after Tuesday night’s performance
—and it arrived in a hot and dishevelled condition.
All the circumstances tended to provoke interest and a
public demonstration, but only the plain kind of regular,
steadfast bloke attended to kiss the chorus good-bye, and
not a single Johnnie boy turned up to hurl a violet at the
insensate train. In point of fact, the swagger youth who
used to dangle about theatres is extinct. All the dang-
ling is done about pubs. now.
“S.”: Since the time of Eve (presumably'), snake-
charming has had its fascinations for the human race.
It suggests meddling with deadly dangers, and any feat
that is likely to cost a life will draw the crowd. I sup-
pose Cleopatra’s turn at Melbourne Opera House is
attractive because the vivid popular imagination invests
it with terrors it does not possess. The snakes used are
as harmless as kittens, but although the not uncommon
idea that a snake exudes slime like a snail is quite false,
snakes are nasty things to handle, and leave a grimy,
greasy track where they have passed several times over a
white surface like Miss Cleopatra. The snake has also a
faint but peculiarly fetid odor, and the sight of a girl
being crawled over by dozens of the sleek, squirming
reptiles is nauseous to most men, who show a tendency
to take drinks while Cleopatra is on. Women, however,
seem to take an unearthly kind of delight in the exhi-
bition. Certainly, Sara Bernhardt is not the only woman
who has inherited Eve’s weakness for serpents.
“M.”: “Mother Goose” stops short of 100 nights,
which was the famous run achieved by “ Tambour
Major” in Melbourne, with Pattie Laverne, Nellie
Stewart, Mervin, Brennir, Harwood and Wallace. So
“ Mother Goose ” has the second run. The third, 80
nights, was that of “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” at the old
wooden Princess’s. I have not seen the London runs
tabulated. The first great ones were “ Colleen Bawn ”
and “Our American Cousins,” each about 400 nights.
The longest have been “Our Boys” and “ Charlev’s
Aunt.” “Sweet Lavender’’and “The Chinese Honey-
moon” come about next—then “The Mikado,” with "a
heap more money in its two years than in the three of
some others.
“ Melb.” : I drop in from time to time at the A.N.A.
competitions, now going on at the AthenEeum, extending
for the portentous length of from March 4, when Justice
Barton opened them, to April 13th. And one show a
day is not enough. On some days it is both afternoon
and evening, and sometimes the performance is in two
halls at once. lam surprised at the excellence, particu-
larly in the girls’ piano struggle. Yet no woman alive is
in the very first rank as a piano-player. The girl only
becomes a pianola. What awful sacrifices of time ! What
scorn of domestic work 1 Is this the ambition we crave
for our women ? Do competitions encourage race suicide ?
Melba is the noblest woman ever created—that is the
ideal 1 So every girl squeezes and thrusts to get before the
public. You create what I call the Biltong Girl—a jerked-
beef creature, hard in every way. H r aim is to become
a wife without becoming a mother. Bonaparte was right:
“The noblest woman is the one who has the most
children.” She will emerge from other competitions when
the Biltong Girl is forgotten.
“J.A.C.”: Ada Ward, erst actress, now a somewhat
mature Salvation lassie, was very successful here
in “The Woman in Red,” by which play she will
be best remembered. She was a tall, graceful woman,
with a fine auburn mane, attractive rather than beauti-
ful, with splendid eyes and teeth, and a peculiarly win-
ning smile. She was regarded by her associates in the
theatre as what people call “peculiar." Nobody was
surprised at anything she did. Although very sedate and
somewhat reserved in manner, everybody liked her. Of
her kindness of disposition there could be no doubt;
among other deeds of charity, she nursed an old Mel-
bourne actor, Sam Woolfe, through a severe illness—she
had had experience in nursing, having been attached to
an ambulance corps during the Franco-German war.
Among her theatrical exploits was the playing of Romeo
in “ Romeo and Juliet.”
“Melb”:. That pious singing comedian, Charley
Alexander, is here again. He has dropped Torrey, the
dry barracker, and is on his own. Mr. Alexander is
accompanied by his wife, daughter of Mr. Cadbury, the
millionaire cocoa man. When Grattan Guinness was
here, some callow member of the Y.M.C.A. left an
awful joint in the armor for Symes to thrust a
lance into. The Y.M.C.A. gentleman wrote to the
Southern Cross, saying what a happy-looking man
Guinness was, and what a mournful-looking man Jos.
Symes was. Symes came down like a cubic mile of bricks in
the Liberator. Said he : “ Yes, I am, like the Messiah,
a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, but I am
told that Dr. Guinness is going to marry a young lady
with £29,000. If I had such luck I would look as happy
as he does.”
Post Mason, the popular American baritone, is at
present touring Queensland, supported by a concert and
vaudeville company, and more than satisfactory business
is reported.
A melodrama in a lift was enacted in a
big building in Collins-street, Melbourne, one
afternoon recently, and the gripman and con-
ductor of the lift, a youth of 16, composed the
audience. The actors were three —the wife, the
other fellow, and the husband. The lift picked
up a lady and a gentleman on the ground floor,
ascended, and stopped on the second floor to take
in a second gentleman. Gent. No. 2 stepped in,
the lift shot up again, and the action of the drama
commenced almost in a moment. The youthful
conductor was thrown down in the confusion,
and considerably trodden on ; the lady was
wedged tightly in
a corner, and the
confined space was
full of battle.
When the lift
reached its limit,
the rampant hus-
band yanked the
wire, and started
it down again. By
this time people
had gathered at
each landing to
watch the battle
flying past. It
ended at the
ground floor. No.
2 seized the lady
and took her
away. No. 1 stood on the floor with his nose
bleeding into his hat. Inquiry revealed the fact
that No. 1 had apartments at the top, and was
taking No. 2’s wife up to afternoon tea, when the
strategical No. 2 intercepted them on the first
floor.
Recently dead in London, aged 80, Peter
Paul Labertouche, one-time Victorian Secretary
for Railways. He arrived in Melbourne in 1853,
and became chief clerk in the Roads and Bridges
Department, which was amalgamated with the
Railway ditto. When John Stevenson relin-
quished the Railway Secretaryship, Labertouche
took his place. He retired in 1892, and was
succeeded by Robert G. Kent.
As was previously suggested, Judkins had
one chance of achieving rationality. The chance
was D.C.L. Whisky in instalments suitable to the
smallness of his vital capital. And D.C.L. is still
his best hope of raising himself above the level of
his unhappy name. Properly applied to the right
spot—it will produce sense from the most un-
promising soil. Of all intellectual fertilisers
D.C.L. Whisky is the best.*
ADA’S VOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Ada Ward’s reading of the Bible conics as a revela-
tion to those used to hearing- the usual clergyman or
reader drone the Scriptures.— The Age.
I remember, years ago,
When I was a pretty child,
With my golden curls arow—
And my nature undefiled,
Father unto church away
Drove me every Sabbath day.
Oak leaves carved on column caps,
Oak leaves on the steel-bound door—
Cool and gloom in choir and apse,
Shadows on the grey stone floor ;
Heard the organ roll its waves,
As I wagged it 'mong the graves.
Cave-like gloom and organ breath ;
Beauty in that stone and wood ;
Sigh as of regret for death,
From where carven angels stood ;
Kept me studious, rapt, devout—
Till the parson droned me out.
In the choir, where all the maids,
Dressed like angels fleshed with youth
Voices mounting to the shades,
Singing courage, hope and truth.
When the parson’s drone did hurt,
All those girls began to flirt.
I, who always vvas devout,
Driven was to go alone,
Forced into the world without
By the shepherd’s shriek and drone—
With a girl—’twas parson’s fault —
Kittling near the family vault.
And if I be not a soul
Of the saved and timid sort,
Blame that parson, for the roll—
For the nasal bleat—in short,
For his ghastly monotone ;
And his drunken blowfly’s drone.
Drone of Jacob and of Ham—
Bleat of David and of Noah—
Squeak of Tophet and of “ Damn ”
Mispronouncing “ Moab ” and “ Moah,’
Drones reciting yarns of rakes—
Amnon, Tamar and the cakes.
There can be one voice that saves !
Ada’s—when she speaks the verse—
(No more kittling ’mong the graves,
Wagging it from church, and worse)—
Saved by histrionic tone,
Who was lost by parson’s drone.
Yet, I doubt, tho’ Ada’s voice
Called me from the grass and sun,
Other sounds would more rejoice
Me, if life were new begun ;
I would hear some youthful she
Calling, “ Martin 1 Come to me ! ”
Tree of sap-green—ray of sun—
Earth made heavenly by the light—
From the cavern’d church I’d run—
From the drone of hell’s affright—
Where the sun with glory laves
All the grass on all the graves.
Deacon’s whines nor parson’s drones
Should not keep me from my fair ;
Ada’s deep and Thespian tones
Should noo drive me from the air.
Hear the cry from yonder tree !
“ Martin ! Martin 1 Come to me ! ”
Not for me the greater sin—
Slighting Life for church of stones !
Soul of mine they cannot win ;
Nor by bleat, nor “ East Lynne ” tones,
Take my liberty from me—
Joy of sun and air and tree.
When all sectaries are dead,
When their strut and acting’s done,
When all ghouls their say have said,
Still will shine the splendid sun—
No more heard the killjoy’s drone,
Buzzing round life’s beauteous throne.
Queensland.
MARTIN LUTHER.
A GALLANT CLERGYMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite the orders given by'the captain that the women
and children were to be saved before the men were
allowed in the boats, two male members of the Salvation
Army and a clergyman were among the first boatload who
left the vessel. —Glad tidings from the Suevic wreck.
’Twas in Trafalgar’s Bay
(Or near by),
Upon that fog-bound day
The stranded Suevic lay ;
Huge waves splashed angry spray
’Gainst the sky.
Firm, at the fatal wreck,
Captain, crew
Kept panic under check.
The Lizard reared its neck.
Like men, girls marched that deck—
Kiddies, too.
The skipper calmly cursed,
Iceberg-cool:
“ Let ocean do its worst,
Let the ship break or burst;
But kids and women first!
Is the rule.”
Wild splashed tumultuous foam,
Rat-ta-tan !
“ Dear friends, seek not to roam.
Stand hack !. .. Heaven is our Home.”
Spoke up brave Brother Loam,
Clergyman.
All hearts his bold words fill
Full of Hope;
As through the crowd, so still,
He stole, clutched Baby Bill,
And pushed him off the sill
Or the rope.
The reckless, first to flee—
Bulldog breed—
That pastor w'as, who the
Rope ladder clasped, as he
Swung safely o’er the sea ;
Gallant deed!
And in the life-boat lists,
Like vile kelp,
Sat Bags and Sergeant Twists,
Both staunch Salvationists —
(Salvation aye consists
In self-help).
Crew, passengers all cheered
Heartfelt, when
All safe that life-boat neared
The shore. The first who cleared
Were (how the sinners jeered !)
These good men.
It was a novel plan
Tried upon
This amateurish clan ;
But for wild dash, elan,
That gallant clergyman
Takes the scone.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine,
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Bead the following statement: —
The Hon. Joseph Blumentiial (Tax-Commissioner),
writes :—“ I am pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafnessand head-noises,
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years.
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to you,
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
‘ EAROSCOPE ’ we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt Sc., Sydney, N.S.W.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
“Hamer”: For sheer monotony, com-
mend me to the evening party. In my younger
days I used to attend a number of these functions
mainly because I was invited and could think of
no adequate excuse, and I met invariably about
the same people—the girl who recited a bit
from Baconspere, and the woman who sang
“Sunshine and Rain,” and the man who
sang “Out on the Rocks,” and the other
man who sang “Island of Dreams,” and the
various people who did the same old things on
the same old instruments, and the same polite
applause when the same impolite conversation
suspended itself with the close of the same old
items. Also the same old refreshments, which
were not particularly refreshing, eaten with the
same old teeth—mostly. The teeth were probably
the most changeable items on the programme.
TAPERING OFF.
HE : “ I beg of you—give up society.”
S HE: “ Very well, I’ll begin with yours.”
Professor Berry, of Melbourne University,
has a grievance against the Bent Government,
which, he says, is most penurious in its dealings
and keeps the dissecting rooms short of bodies.
There are times when the students have nobody
to cut up, and this, in a great city where there
are so many people to spare, is a most reprehen-
sible state of things, Several Melbourne public
institutions, like the Benevolent Asylum and
the Morgue, are supposed to provide cadavers
to the University, but only a casual, disfranchised
corpse, with no relations and no influence, finds
its way there. Dr. Berry does not say definitely
what he expects Bent and his colleagues to do,
but The Bulletin has an idea. It proposes that
Bent and Prendergast should coalesce, the terms
being that the Labor party dissolves its caucus
and accepts the main features of the Bent pro-
gramme ; while Bent, as a graceful concession,
hands over the House of Rich Landlords to the
University to be cut up.
From “ Jimmie Pannikin ” :
Lots oi fittle people have had a big fling at the new
syllabus issued by the Public Instruction Department of
N.S.W., and lots of big people have had their little shot
at it ; now I want to have a short say. One of the wisest
features of a wise syllabus is the encouragement given to
gardening. When I was imprisoned in the Big Scrub, a
decade or two ago, I marvelled, as a fruitgrower’s son, at
the fact that many of the Richmond River cane-growers,
owning blocks of some of the most fertile land in Australia,
used to ride 20 miles or so, week after week, to wild, weird
Wardell, or bright, breezy Ballina, to buy common vege-
tables. Cane is proverbially the lazy man’s crop. Cane-
growing gives lovely spells of rest, just as wool-growing
does, and just as dairy-farming doesn’t ; yet scores of
cane-growers used never to grow their own vegetables.
They’d buy “ greens ” from the local Chow, or get Sydney
stuff at the local greengrocers’ shops. Their own land
was capable of producing much of the finest fruit and
vegetables in the State. They came in time to admire
the Experimental Farm at Wollongbar, and the school-
gardens at Ballina, Wardell, etc.—and to profit by the
example.
Here in the Yass-Gundagai district, I find the same dis-
inclination to cultivate garden-plots on the fertile flats of
the Murrumbidgee. All the land is used for sheep or
cattle or corn. A good vegetable plot is in my experience
a rare thing. I saw better gardening along the Darling
even in drought time. When I ask why vegetables and
melons are not grown, I am usually told that “ there ain’t
no time,” or “it ain’t worth while.” Recently at Jugiong
I saw on the ’Bidgee Flats, the biggest and best rock-
melons and water-melons I ever came across. The enter-
prising grower slept with a loaded two-barrelled gun
beside him ; but he was making money. The man on the
land ought to produce an abundant supply of fruit
and vegetables ior home consumption, and eat less meat.
He should also cultivate flowers. Here’s good luck to the
school gardens. May they grow and grow and grow 1
“ Blank ” : A Mel-
bourne paper says that
Miss Florence Young
lately received through
the post a “ Chain
Prayer,” and wa s
threatened with things
horrific if she didn’t
send the prayer to nine
other persons, starting
on the day she received
said supplication. That
prayer first struck this
station a fortnight ago.
Since then prayers have
simply showered on it.
Dirty and clean prayers,
well-written and unde-
cipherable prayers.
With the prayer was an
intimation that if the
receiver didn’t start
sending copies of it
away at once to nine
persons some great
affliction would, on the
ninth day, smite him or
her hard. If, on the
other hand, the person
did immediately start
sending out the prayer,
he or she would, on the
ninth day thereafter,
experience some great
joy. The chief’s family
(15 in all) each received
two or three copies of
the prayer, and, being
naturally anxious to
avoid the affliction,
started by letting the
book-keeper have one
apiece. The book-keep-
er, who is a most
irreligious person, was
already in receipt of
several prayers. In fact,
everyone on the station
had got one or more
through the post, and
everyone passed one on
to everyone else. * It
was the same old
prayer, with variations
as to spelling and fist,
but each copy con-
tained the threat and
the instructions about
sending it on. We are a simple and super-
stitious community—all but the book-keeper,
and he is an angry man. No one dare ap-
proach him now with a piece of paper. He
stands at his office door with a gun and receives his
instructions from afar. The governess, being
highly strung, has taken to her bed, because she
can’t think of any more people to send the prayer
to. The maids and several of the more super-
stitious and religious of the men have drawn some
screw in advance to buy stamps with which to
send out the prayer. The post office is besieged.
Extra mail bags have been called into use, and
they are full of prayer. Wild, demented women
are ordering stamps from the nearest township,
the station office being sold out. No one has ex-
perienced any joy ; everyone wears a worried
look. lam prostrated—also broke. Would The
Bulletin mind letting me work a few prayers off
on the office ? And is this ‘‘ Oh ain Prayer ” a deep,
dark joke, perpetrated by the P.M.G. with a view
to increasing the revenue ?
* * * fc
“ C.P. : ” I saw a one-act drama last week
from my office window, in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne. A dark, nervous-looking man had
been waiting for some time in evident im-
patience, and scraping the pavement with
worried, prancing hoofs. Then a bright,
fair, plump, serene-looking girl swung round
the corner from Russell-street, and greeted
him with a smile like a sunrise. He replied awk-
wardly, and jigged about some more on his two
worried, shamed-looking hoofs. Her smile faded,
and she looked surprised. He said things with
his eyes looking everywhere except at her face,
and his feet still going on as if they didn’t belong to
him, and her face slowly whitened, and she became
tense and motionless. He gesticulated in awk-
ward explanation, he spoke volubly, he explained
things at great length, he wiped his perspiring
forehead, he looked everywhere except at the girl,
and he almost tore up the pavement with the
scraping of his feet. Still she remained dead still.
Then he awkwardly handed out a bottle of scent.
She took it, and let her hand drop again among
the folds of her dress. He got away awkwardly,
taking his hat off twice, and dabbing it on again
real hard.; and when he was gone the girl dropped
the bottle of scent in the gutter, and watched the
fragments roll away in the turbid stream. Then
she took off her glove, slowly drew off a ring, and
dropped it also. By this time the nervous man
was a hurrying blot far down the street. The
whole thing was obvious, barring the scent. Why
should a mean-looking man, who was obviously
breaking off his engagement, bring along six-
penn’orth of cheap perfume ?
.
If your muscles ache it may be your blood
—Wolfe’s Schnapps cures rheumatism. If you
need a bracing tonic for general exhaustion,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best in the world.*
N.S.W. law fell with unusual weight on
Kathleen Dwyer, of Sydney, when it gave her
and Joseph Dwyer three years apiece for black-
mail ; but though Kathleen is only making slow
progress through a two-years’ sentence, and the
Court’s liberality thus gives her five years in all,
it can’t be said that she doesn’t deserve all she has
got. Kathleen was the nice-looking nurse who
conspired with Daisy Greville, also a nice-looking
nurse, and the aforesaid Joseph Dwyer, to get
large damages from Benjamin for alleged assault.
Benjamin had hired the two ministering angels
to flap their wings officially in his wife’s sick
room, and the after-proceedings cost him a heap
of damages, costs and publicity. And he would
never have got any satisfaction out of the
matter but for the fact that the two ministering
angels afterwards got two years each for false
pretences. Kathleen took hers dry, but Daisy
wept greatly, and before she had been an hour in
her cell the lonesomeness of it had so got on her
nerves that she had to speak to somebody.
Merely, it would seem, for the sake of the Judge’s
company she got herself taken back into Court
and told the whole story r of the anti-Benjamin
conspiracy. It did her no good, so far as
can be seen, but it seems to have struck Kathleen
Dwyer just where some solid damage was most
required. Also, it clears Benjamin’s character as
far as the false charge of battering a nurse is
concerned, but it doesn’t bring back the damages
and Costs. The angels spent the damages long
ago, and Costs never come back.
A TIME-SAVING APPLIANCE.
BILLS (feeling his way): “Do you know Benson
gets much more time to himself now he has a
typewriter?”
MRS. BILLS : “ I know his wife does.”
The action of the owners of the recently
lost Carnarvon Castle, in stopping the pay of the
survivors as from the date of the wreck, is another
illustration of the blessings and benefits of Private
Enterprise. Think of the, consideration and
charity of those gentlemen ini not even charging
the castaways for the rent of the boats in which
they reached shore —and not a word has been said
about the value of the bisbuits which the men
admit taking from the vessel!
* * * *
S.M. Herald’s editorial columns (15/3/’O7)
headed an article “ The New Jam,’ and the title
attracted Protectionist readers, and set them
perusing the thing. But, alas! it wasn tan
appreciative comment on the institution of
another Australian industry—it was merely some
lengthy twaddle about the installation .of a
colored fellow-subject, who used to play cricket,
as chief of some trumpery Indian principality.
Incidentally the Herald reverently referred to
Ranji as “ His Jamsbip,” and dragged jn by the
neck an opportunity to call England “ home.
“Thomas Clodd” from Maoriland
Maoriland’s boss geyser, Waimungu, has sullenly
refused to blow up since Seddon died, but the accumu-
lated missuses of the unstable isles at present make
Waimungu s finest turn appear a pale penny fizzle. The
lately-formed Domestic Workers’ Union has served upon
every missus in Wellington a sheetful of claims that
simply play Antiquated Henry with the wives’ tenderest
feelings. The said wives are commanded by the political
woman who drew up the circular and made Mary revolt,
to sign an agreement herewith enclosed, accepting the
demands of the 18 downtrodden slaves who have decided
to increase the political woman’s salary. The circular
says the signing of the agreement will “ save unpleasant-
ness.” In the meantime, the missuses aren’t signing
anything, which means that they will all be sum-
moned before the Arbitration Court and browbeaten
by the polit.cal woman. Mary, to be quite frank,
is biting off a great deal more than she was formerly
asked to masticate, for the claims say she shall begin to
work at 6.30, knock off at 7.30 in the evening - , knock off
at 2 p.m. on Thursdays and Sundays, but shall, if re-
quired, help get tea on Sunday evening every fortnight.
Other “claims” state that all the sta utory holidays
shall be observed—by the girls, not the missuses ; that
Mary shall staj' out till 12 (midnight) on her off-day ;
unionists shall have preference, and uniform be free. If
Mary is asked to work on a statutory or weekly holi-
day, she claims Is. an hour overtime. But the point
that really charms the M.L. missus is the one that makes
it lawful for an inspectress to invade the kitchen to see
if she is doing the right thing by Mary. Inspectresses
are getting their hair glued on.
* * * *
Harry Thaw, the United States millionaire
degenerate who blew Stanford White into a
future state, becomes more interesting with each
succeeding batch of revelations. In addition to
the fact that his knees wobble, and his feet cross
each other like those of Kipling’s “Man who
Would be King” after his crucifixion, and that he
is suspected of having a tail, it is now stated that
he always stripped his young wife before he
cowhided her. He seems to have done this on
several occasions, but the first time it happened,
if the lady’s story is to be believed, the matter
was attended to in a very thorough fashion, for
she says she was in bed for three weeks after the
ceremony. But there are so many aspects of the
Thaw case, and the girl-wife seems to have
whooped things up so energetically in her brief
career, that a cloud of doubt hangs over the whole
business.
• ■« * *
From one who saw them off :
The fact of Tommy Bent and Reginald Talbottle depart-
ng on the same boat led to complications in the farewell
demonstration. It was difficult to say which part of the
public emotion was Bent’s and which was Talbottle’s, so
they agreed to lump it, and both hastened to acknow-
ledge every whoop that went up from the crowd. They
even came two steps fonvard, and swept the decks with
their cadies when a roar was excited by the outbreak of
hostilities between two terriers on the pier. In truth, very
little of the demonstration was intended for the vice-
regal person. He was scarcely recognisable by the
average Melbournian, to whom he has been merely a tall,
vague official shadow discovered occasionally in news-
paper illustrations approving of a prize bull at an
agricultural show, or planting a spring onion on Arbor
Day. The band played “ Will Ye No Come Back Again?”
and the Governor nodded “ yes,” bub the crowd displayed
no overwhelming joy at the prospect, and devoted itself
to the efforts of a lank lady who was trying to hit Bent
with a bouquet. Bent kept dry nearly to the end, but
he broke up and wept when the people raised a farewell
cheer. There was no attempt on the Hon. Tom’s part to
disguise his weakness; he wept openly, mopping up
tears as big as grapes in a voluminous bandana, and the
crowd, which dearly loves a soggy bit of sentiment, see-
ing the big man so deeply moved, cheered more than
ever. There is a suspicion abroad that Tommy was
“ kidding,” bub this writer, who has seen him snivelling
wretchedly over the woes of an Andersonian heroine,
d >es not believe that for a moment. Too solid flesh dis-
solve s into tears easily, and T. Bent is very solid.
* » » ■»
The Sydney Observatory site, which the
Carruthers Government, in its sour desire to in-
convenience the Australian Parliament, proposes
to present to J. Bull for Mint purposes, was origi-
nally known as Fort Phillip, and had a battery
and signal station, communicating with the signal
station at South Head. On the ridge, at one
time, were three windmills. The Grosvenor
Hotel was about the site of one, the second was
close up to the present Fort-street school, and
the third close to the fort itself. They were
Government mills, grinding corn for the military
and the prisoners.
“ STOP IT, MISS, OR I’LL SCREAM
Melbourne is solving’
the domestic maid
problem by the
employment
of house-
boys and
house-men
in private
houses and
boarding
establish-
ments.
Here we
have the
wicked
elderly
lady
chucking
the house-
boy under
the chin.
Melbourne College of Domestic Economy
is now in full blast. Passionate orators, turned on
to enthuse about the institution, describe it as an
establishment for the creation and cultivation of
the perfect housewife, just as the Agricultural
Colleges are for the propagation and formation
-of the perfect husbandman. The College of
Domestic Economy, we are told, will teach its
students all a complete housewife should know.
This seems a large programme, and the announce-
ment is creating a good deal of uneasiness in the
minds of Melbourne men, married and engaged.
The question is, how much should the complete
housewife know ? Married women will probably
reply- “Just as much as her husband doesn t
want her to be aware of.” There is an impression
abroad that one branch of study deals with the
proper control and management of husbands, and
is presided over by a lady Professor of 50 who
has buried two husbands and is now training a
third for the sepulchre. This class is likely to up-
set a lot of illusions, and if persisted in, will tend
to subvert the real intentions of the College of
Domestic Economy, since the wise man, while
willing that his intended should know enough, is
quite anxious that she should not know too much.
* * * *
One great advantage Angier’s Emulsion
has over any other lung remedy is its soothing,
lubricating effect upon the stomach and bowels.
It not only cures coughs and heals the lungs but it
keeps the digestive organs healthy and benefits
the entiie system. In three sizes, of all chemists.
BALLADE OF A WIDOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A WIDOW, elderly, active, Christian, alone, owning
three cottages, clear of debt, wishes introduction
elderly Christian Man, similar circumstances, view matri-
mony.—Melbourne Aon.
Elderly, active, Christian, alone,
Owning three cottages (clear of debt);
Widowers, who have had wives of your own,
How much longer is she to fret ?
Are not your seared hearts softened yet?
Hear her plead in a gentle tone—
“ Christian Man, whom I have not met,
List to the wail of a Widow lone ! ”
“ Elderly.” Ay ! but do not let
Fancy picture some ugly crone,
Grey and withered, with cap and net,
Mumbling prayers in a dreadful drone.
.Still in her there is something to pet—
All her beauty has not yet flown—
“ Active ” means “ bouncing,” do not forge f,
List to the wail of a Widow lone !
“ Christian.” Ah ! let the word be blown
Far as the bounds of the world are set ;
Her affinity is not known,
But he’s a “ Christian ” —so we may bet!
What a prize he is going to get!
Flesh of his flesh and bone of his bone —
Dustman, or duke with a page in Debrett,
List to the wail of a Widow lone !
Envoi.
Bachelors, widowers—come, be met;
Chances like this are not widely strown.
Think of those cottages (clear of debt)—
List to the wail of a Widow lone !
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.
THE FEAR OF THE LORD!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cable item on the wreck of the Sue vie : “Mr. W.
Young, of Melbourne, and other passengers declare that,
despite the Captain’s orders to the contrary, when the
rescue work started the first boat-load contained two
male Salvationists and a clergyman ! ”
“Behold the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom!”
Job xxviii., 28.
The terrified trio looked down at the boat,
A pang at each heart-string, a clutch at each throat!
How long would the vessel continue afloat?
Might possibly sink in a second !
The skipper commanded in resolute tone
That men of all ranks, not the seamen alone,
Must wait till the women and children were gone !
A terrible risk it was reckoned !
Three craven hearts quavered in common accord
With shameless, contemptible fear of the Lord !
“ Stand back ! ” cried the skipper. The shivering three,
Three cowardly Christians all anxious to flee,
Unheeding the order appeared to agree
To rush the first boat in their terror !
Their faith in religion was merely a name !
Their dread of their Heaven had conquered their shame ;
They might have shown pluck and been saved all the same !
Oh that was the pitiful error !
This happening seems to the scribe to afford
A deplorable instance of fearing the Lord !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


Teach PoVt
MONEY-GETTING
SUBJECTS— pzr-j
Shorthand. Bookkeeping, Elec-
tric?! Engineering, Penmanship,
Architecture, Mechanical Draw-
ing, Surveying, Sketching, &c.
Ten thousand people have Improved
their mental, financial and social stand-
ins by our systems of Education. Write
now for “HOME STUDY,” post free.
STOTT and HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
Moont st., Sydney.
The NEWEST HARD HAT
xc
A HAT that reveals fashion’s latest
characteristic touches. It is a
medium shape, and is ultra
stylish. We have both higher crowns
and wider brims—but the shape we
illustrate will meet most men’s tastes.
It is genuine English fur—superbly
finished, and light in weight. You
cannot get the shape elsewhere.
Price
J&
10/6
POSTAGE 9d.
EXTRA.
State Size When Ordering.
PF APF*S Xt TO T M MEN S and BOYS ’ 309-311 George St.,
X L*U VX w+t OUTFITTERS,... & SYDNEY.
Nowadays at the bush picnic it is not un-
common for half the girls to bear “Jubilee” as
the whole or part of a front name. It is a desig-
nation that is coming home to roost. Jubilee is
aged 19 or 20 now. Five years ago she was still
at school, and the fact that her name gave away
her age didn’t matter. To-day she is in long
frocks and has her hair up, but she is still
young enough for her name not to matter. By
1912 the unmarried section of Jubilee will begin
to get worried; by 1917 Miss Jubilee will be a
miserable old girl, and by 1924 she will be an
anguished frump. She will be dated all the time,
and her little strivings to conceal the procession
of years will count for nothing. It was the same
with the fisrt crop of girls named Alma. Alma
didn’t mind from 1872 till about 1876; then she
began to worry as no husband loomed on the
horizon ; and in 1884 she bought a parrot and a
cat. But she was better off than Jubilee. The
name of Alma lingers, and an occasional girl is
still christened by it, therefore Alma isn’t in-
delibly branded “1854.” Jubilee is a name that
lasted one year only, and Miss Jubilee Smith
might just as well have her date burned into her
shoulder, as if she were a heifer, so that the public
can see it when she is in evening dress at the
festive hop.
* * * <r
The Sydney thug now hits you hard on
the elbow while you are waiting at the corner for
a tram car, and then publicly goes through your
p ickets while your thoughts are concentrated on
the smote bone. The bone attracts your atten-
tion so much that you don’t really notice that you
are being robbed. In fact, you might be un-
dressed and your clothes taken awuxy without the
fact attracting your attention at the moment, so
deeply do you ponder about that bone.
INVITED CRITICISMS.
Oh, there was quite a scene. lie even went as
far as to say I was a barefaced liar.”
Well, George, you know I told you not to
shave off your moustache.”
The blowing up of the French warship
Jena, in dock at Toulon, shows the trickiness of
high explosives. The French use melinite, a
variant of lyddite—a compound of phenol boiled
with nitric and sulphuric acids. Under the name
of picric acid, it had been in use as one of the
coal-tar dyes for 40 years without doing anything
remarkable. Then, one fine day, a fire broke out
in some chemical works where it was largely
manufactured. A stream of blazing picric acid
ran down a gutter in the yard. It ran into a shed
where there was a heap of litharge (a lead com-
pound). Then there was a tremendous blow up.
I hat was in the early nineties, and was the first
hint that picric acid was explosive. Its useful-
ness has developed since ; but it is notoriously as
capricious as a young woman in a new bonnet.
Some of Melbourne’s registry-office keepers
think they are on the way to solve the Mary Ann
problem. For a while past they have supplied
“houseboys” as fast as they can get them, and
want more. The “ boys ” run from 16 years to 22,
or thereabouts, and engage as cooks, launders,
house-and-chamber coves, and afewas “generals.”
Wages run from 12s. upwards and “found.”
Meanwhile Mary Ann has gone into a factory or
an office, and for 15s. a week does the work that
the man used to get 30s. or 40s. for. How the idea
of “service” strikes the “ boy” hasn’t transpired
yet; perhaps it never will, for a hash-house or pub
“boots” doesn’t reckon he is “in service” —he
contracts to do certain work for certain wages
within stipulated hours, and nothing more or
outside his agreement; and as “houseman” he
will regard his work similarly. Also, nine women
out of ten show more consideration to men
servants than they do to women, so there’s no
reason why the plan shouldn’t be satisfactory.
But what is to happen to the “ boy ” when he is
25, and hasn't learned anything except how to
fold nighties, make beds, and clean windows ?
Presumably after that age he will drift into the
job of general rouseabout and yardman —and
Heaven save us from becoming a nation of hope-
less general rouseabouts and yardmen !
* * * *
“ The Bindaei Referring to your par in
Bulletin (14/3/’O7), let me have a word. Sup-
pose the Bell River had a fresh in it, could you
reasonably call the Macquarie a branch thereof ?
If not, how can the line from Nyngan to Bourke
be the branch because there is more traffic on the
Cobar line? Talking of the railway, there are
dumb witnesses (nailed round the walls of the big
loco.-shed at Bourke) to the biggest drunk that
the town, perhaps, ever saw. The line was
opened there on the 3rd September, 1885, and the
floor of the loco.-shed —a huge building to stable
about a dozen engines, but now mostly stabling
some thousands of rabbits—was boarded over and
all Bourke danced, drank champagne, ate the
fatted pig, and generally painted the West ver-
milion for days in the presence and company of
Governor Loftus. The aforementioned witnesses
are palms brought from Sydney for decoration
purposes, and there they hang to-day—about the
only things the old inhabitant has to remind him
of the first step Bourke took to its own destruction.
Houses are empty, pubs deserted, and desolation
reigns supreme ; and as to Bourke losing its head
over the matter of its 126 miles of rails being
called a branch, it is questionable whether there
is head enough to get lost if the said rails were
torn up and sold to Sandford, and the village was
re-named Gehenna.
* * •* *
In a little hotel at Hauwiti (M.L.) the
other day some strolling tourists had their atten-
tion “respectfully directed ” to a notice, written
in Maori and English (more or less) on a sheet of
beer and sweat stained notepaper. The English
(more or less) part of it read as follows :
A NOTICE TO MAORIS AND PAKEHAS.
A dance is going' to be held here, in Hauwiti’s ball, on
the 19th of this month at 7 o’clock p.m. The main
things of this dance is to buy stoom stones. Dancer 55.,
Spot 25., Ladys Free.
The effete pakeha sometimes has the bad habit of
dancing on his ancestors’ tombstone ; the Maori
dances first and afterwards buys his ancestor a
tombstone with the proceeds—helped by the Spct,
which is Maori shorthand for spectator.
* » * *
“Stony”: It has been my privilege, on
various occasions during the past few months, to
look through the kitchens of the three principal
eating establish-
ments in Syd-
bourne’s most
fashionable
thoroughfare.
There is no
doubt about it,
Food is a ter-
rible thing, and
none of these
three restaur-
ants seems to
have quite
solved the pro-
blem of re-
ducingitsfear-
someness.
C ertainly,
they d o n’t
employ a
nigger to
carve beef
by holding
the round
down with one
hand while he
slices it with the
other. But there’s ar.
air—or lack of air
about these places which
one can't forget when the snowy spuds and
neatly-decorated chops come up on silver, with
a flourish of spotless napkins. It is a pity
Private Enterprise can’t arrange to fix Food in a
decent fashion without being forced to do it.
Some day the State will take a trip down to these
swagger kitohens and will be very ill. Then there
will be a sudden outcry among restaurant-keepers
against State interference—because the stricken
State will have taken steps to prevent any
continuance of the trouble.
* * * *
“A.M.”: Saw two men in Pitt-street,
discussing: forcibly the question, “Are Sydney
streets dirty?” Evidently neither would be
convinced. Then one, in eloquent silence, crossed
the pavement, and with his umbrella poked the
thick coating of dirt which, from year’s end to
year’s end, makes a cornice along the wall of the
Herald office ; and the other, who looked like a
friend of “Mr. James ” himself, sorrowfully
bowed his head in admission. Never was argu-
ment settled more conclusively.
. ■* * • *
“ T.F.M.” : In these days Pentridge
Stockade (Melbourne) may be all that Tommy
Bent says it is—a quiet family hotel, where every
attention is paid to the comfort of its patrons;
but, having occasion recently to hunt through its
records, I became convinced that it was a good
place to keep away from in the days when John
Price was, according to his own irreverent dictum,
“ the God of Pentridge.” A sample sentence :
Isaac Hurst, charged with taking his boots off dis-
respectfully. Twenty days’ solitary confinement on bread
and water. (Signed) Richard Youl.
The visiting Jay-Pay who handed out justice in
this generous fashion was Dr. Youl, who became,
in after years, a well-known Melbourne identity.
* * * *
The proposal of Carruthers to cut a wide
avenue from Macquarie-street through the Sydney
Domain to the Art Gallery deserves the same fate
as the old Lyne proposal to cut a carriage road
around the water front of the Botanic Gardens.
It will take away a certain portion of the park
land, and is of no particular use, anyhow.
AN AWAKENED INTEREST.
MIKE (timidly): “ Molly, did ye ever think of marryin'? ”
MOLLY (demurely): "Sure, now, the subject has niver entered me thoughts.”
MIKE (about to turn away): “ It's sorry I am.”
MOLLY (softly): “ Wan minit, Mike. Ye've set me a-thinkin'.”
“ Hassan ” : I cordially endorse “Paul
Cupid’s” remarks (B. 14/3/’O7) anent the subtle
country person. But why did he leave out the
wiliest of the bunch ? Pa Hayseed’s clever ex-
hibits of wheat and chaff and Ma’s disingenuous
preserves are mere trifles compared to Girlie’s
“ art ’’ exhibits. I have frequently judged in this
section, and am a confirmed cynic upon
the subject of the innocent country girl.
One trick is to paint in oils over a colored
magazine supplement. The result enters
as a “Figure subject, copy.” A similar
trick is resorted to in the black and white
section. I saw, in one show, a Norman Lindsay
drawing cut out of The Bulletin, and manipu-
lated by going over every line with a pen. Nine
out of 10 of the black and white “copies” are
tracings. I also saw a copy of George Lambert’s
“Black Soil Plains” shown as an “original
animal subject,” and, after the judging, was in-
formed by tlie young lady who perpetrated the
crime that she had got three firsts for the same.
I apologised profusely, and said that if I had
known that it might have made a difference.
Who was the judge who had given the prizes?
With tear-dimmed eyes, Girlie informed me that
it was the local Bobby Magistrate.
* * * *
Those who want a lesson in municipal
Socialism, and at the same time a proof of the
advantages of municipal consolidation, should go
to the top of Melbourne Exhibition dome or the
Fire Brigade tower some dark night and let the
street lights preach to them. The whole metro-
politan area lies stretched out like a huge map of
municipal competence. Carlton, North Mel-
bourne, West Melbourne, East Melbourne —all
the suburbs governed by the city corporation, and
served by its municipal lighting station, are
brilliant with electric light. The long lines of
glittersomeness are only streets, but they look
like paths of radiance. Fitzroy, Collingwood,
Kew are black blotches to the north-east, through
which Tait’s dim trains move like angels of light.
Over to the south of the Yarra there are the
domains of the Australian Electric Light and
Traction Co. There are lights south of the Yarra,
but scattered and faint and poverty-stricken in
appearance. Still even these patches mark some
stage of municipal endeavor. South Melbourne
is murky. Port Melbourne lies in utter brown
gloom. Yet the municipalities hesitate and
quibble, and take referendums, and get violently
agitated when the City Council invites them to
come in and help to make a bigger and better-lit
and more cheaply-run Greater Melbourne. They
prefer to wander home in the dark, tripping over
their badly-laid kerb-stones, and falling into holes
in their ill-kept roads, so long as they have their
local council, and their own Mr. Mayor, and their
“civic individuality,” whatever that may mean.
“ F.L.J.” : Am staying with a fairly
prosperous N.S.W. dairy-farmer. His wife and
daughters worried him, and he in turn worried the
member for the district, and the member worried
the Government, with the result that Mr. Cow was
made a J.P. The eldest girl was in Brisbane
when the great event occurred, and arrived home
a few weeks afterwards. Seated at breakfast the
morning after her arrival, she noticed that the
fare was similar to that before Dad was “ele-
vated.” It hurt her under the pinny. Standing
up she sniffed at the atmosphere, and left us with :
“ A nice breakfast for a J.P.’s daughter to have
to sit down to ! ” Only one person could equal
her—George Rignold when he was Henry V.
* * * *
Charity takes some strange forms in these
days of advertising. George Jeffkins lost one of
his feet through an unfortunate accident in a
Footscray (Vic.) quarry. By a simple form of co-
operation he was enabled to secure an artificial
limb, and writes this letter of thanks :
1 wish to convey my sincere thanks to the public of
Footscray who so kindly collected the Havelock tobacco
tags (25,000) for me, which enabled me to apply for the
artificial limb offered by the Havelock Tobacco Co. Also
to return my thanks to the Havelock Tobacco Co. for
their handsome and useful limb, and the kind and generous
treatment 1 received at their hands.
* * * *
“ Honest Sweat ” : Have recently come to
Dunedin (Maoriland) to live, and find it pre-
cipitous. The bulk of the city is on the hills ; and
the way up is so steep that the noble horse can’t
pull even an empty cart up straight, but has to
zig-zag from side to side at a slow walk. In
Stafford-street, where my diggings hang on to the
wall of the hill, an express-man isn’t game to back
his vehicle square up against the kerb —the horse
would fall over sideways if he did. Even dogs zig-
zag up the Dunedin hills. Some of the footpaths
have got steps cut in the asphalt. One cross
street near my show is grown green with grass
through disuse. Another healthy feature about
this city is the time everybody has lived here.
Thirty years is the minimum length of service
that counts for anything in the way of recom-
mendation. Have spoken to lots of prominent
and ordinary men, and it’s a rare event to find
anything with white whiskers and with a bit of
boodle that hasn’t been here 40 years. Another
feature is the difficulty I experience in finding
anyone who knows a better place than Dunedi na
outside the Bible ; and even Heaven hasn’t got —
First Church and a new mud dredge.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE MODEST LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TXONORABLE young GENTLEMAN, quiet, indus-
trious, scant means, would like to correspond
good-looking, healthy, affectionate, sensible Chrisl ian
girl, about 20, with means, view above. Triflers
refrain. Address W.W., G.P.O. —Argus Matrimonial
Advt.
I seek not first-sight love, nor.peerless beauty ;
Only a healthy, wholesome, Christian girl
Who’ll save my scanty means as her first duty.
Not for an eyebrow, nor a golden curl,
Do I give up my bachelor condition ;
Only a girl, described above, to gain ;
Affectionate ; with means for the position—
All other applications are in vain !
Triflers refrain 1
Note—l am honorable, industrious, quiet,
And do not wish a burning passion near.
Good looks I want—the health for any diet—
Christian and sensible must be my dear.
Scant means have I, but My Queen must have plenty ;
Note that I say “ with means” —prospective dove 1
Healthy, and wealthy, fair, and young, and twenty—
Give me but these, and I’ll dispense with love,
With “view above.”
Comely and wholesome, sensible and healthy,
Her faults I’ll face with Christian fortitude ;
Good-looking and religious, fairly wealthy—
I care not if she have a wayward mood—
Twenty and fair—-her love need not be burning
(My Rechabitish blood is cold as rain),
And if there ain’t no cash, there ain’t no yearning ;
Bethink thee, ladies who are poor, ’tis vain !
Triflers refrain !
VIC.
RANDOLPH.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
(DURING EASTER WEEK)
SYDNEY SHOW GROUND.
D lT\ Pt lmproved Portable Entfines* Tractions, Thrashers,
IVVOI/l Winding Engines, Etc-
.On Exhibition—A Record in Contrasts, viz., Largest and
Smallest Portable Engine: 87 H.P. and One. Tenth H.P.
N. 8.-
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The following shows the public debt per head
in the various Australian States at the end of the years
mentioned, together with the amount per head of last
year’s interest bill:—
Debt per Head. Interest,
s &c.
1891. 1901. 1906. 1906.
Victoria .. £37 14 4 £44 2 3 £43 711 £1 13 9
Tasmania .. 46 11 10 49 4 0 54 17 5 118 11
N.S. Wales.. 45 10 8 49 110 56 11 2 2 4 5
Westralia .. 30 5 8 67 15 6 69 5 0 3 411
Queensland. 73 12 5 73 1 2 77 9 4 218 7
S. Australia 62 911 72 16 11 79 310 3 3 2
Certainly, works into which the borrowed money has been
put are earning some of the interest. Yet even last year,
one of the “ flushest” Australia ever knew, things panned
out like this :
Paid out of
Interest Net Earnings Taxation
Required. of Works, or new loans.
N.S. Wales ..£3,052,856 £2,565,633 £487,223
Victoria .. 1,921,187 1,923,032 Nil
Queensland .. 1,546,881 793,150 753,731
S. Australia 1,130,361 678,636 451,725
Westralia .. 619,752 510,012 109,740
Tasmania .. 359,579 83,827 275,752
This means that last year, when the revenues were the
largest on record, when works paid that never paid
before, the following proportion of the interest of loans
had to be provided out of taxation or loans
Tasmania 76*7 per cent.
Queensland 487 „
S. Australia 39 "9 ~
Westralia 177 ~
N.S. Wales 15’9 „
Victoria.. Nil
Even supposing, then, that the last phenomenal year
would go on repeating itseif—supposing-, that is to say,
that there were nothing but fat harvests, boom metal-
markets, and phenomenal seasons—the public debt of
Australia would still have to be cut up like this
Interest-earning Wholly unpro-
debt. ductive debt.
N.S. Wales .. £72,024,815 £13,616,919
Victoria .. 53,071,275 Nil
Queensland .. 21,425,399 20,339,068
S. Australia .. 18,079,917 12,002,718
Westralia .. 14,862,287 3,196,266
Tasmania .. 2,284,031 7,516,600
On the basis of the best year from a revenue point of
view that Australia has probably ever had, the second
column above shows the debt that must be paid off
before the works, &c., represented by loan money will
pay interest. And that is exclusive of sinking fund.
If a sinking-fund contribution is called for, as
it ought to be, then the amount of unpro-
ductive debt is much larger. Of course, no
sane commercial concern would look at things
from the height of its most prosperous year, and
if it proposed to float itself into a company on that basis
it would soon have to write down its capital, presuming
that the public didn’t treat the prospectus with scorn, as
the public would most likely do. Yet the foregoing
is the best the States’ loans will pan out at, even on that
basis; and the second column in the last table above shows
how much at the very least must be paid off loans out of
revenue before the books are square.
* » * *
As anticipated here some weeks ago, the Bank
of New South Wales is about to increase its paid capital,
and the Commercial of Sydney takes the same step.
Both these cos. pay 10 per cent., and, as the Bank of Aus-
tralasia and the Union have put up their dividend to 12 per
cent., shareholders in the two big Sydney banks have been
urging that they should be treated' the'same way. Very
wisely the managements propose to benefit the share-
holders while giving depositors and other creditors fur-
ther security, and thus increasing the banks’stability.
The new capital presumably will carry the 10 per cent,
which the old has been receiving, yet in the market
that capital is worth only 4 'per cent. That
is where the shareholders will come in—they
will practically have their dividend increased while
keeping the rate at the old 10 per cent. See what
it is worth to the investor, presuming the new capital is
issued at par, which no doubt it will be. The present
Commercial of Sydney shares, £l2 10s. paid, have been
worth lately about £33. That gives a return to the in-
vestor of £3 15s. 9d. per cent, on a dividend of 10 per
cent. Now, by paying £3 2s. 6d. more, the dividend is
increased by one-fourth. Add that £3 2s. 6d. to the
market price, and the same dividend on the increased
capital gives an investment return of £4 6s. 2d. per cent,
on the old and new capital put together. The details of
the Bank of N.S. Wales’ increase have not yet been
announced.
* * * *
Trouble which has been threatening among the
fire-insurance offices has been patched up, and a war of
rates has been averted “Dual representation” was
the bone of contention ; some companies, which had
swallowed other cos., wanted the right to have an agent
apiece for themselves and another for the swallowed cos.
On account of that, two of the big foreign cos. gave notice
of withdrawal from the association, which was how
the Westralian war started. But a conference held last
week in Melbourne came to a settlement. Only in two
special cases is dual representation to be allowed, and
then only until next year; the two big cos. withdrew
their notices, and all is peace again.
* * * *
Sixteen years ago it was barely possible to get
anybody to look at Australian coke. It was the old
story. Australian coal wouldn’t make good coke. If it
would, Australians were too careless to make it, anyway.
The Longworths tried their hardest to find a market;
when they couldn’t, they resolved to find a mine so that
they could smelt their own ore with their own coke.
That was the start of Great Cobar—the re-starting of it,
rather. Up to about that time Australians weren’t
reckoned good enough to manage big mines, either ; so
they imported foreigners, and the foreigners imported
coke. It wasn’t their fault; they took Australians’ word
for it that they couldn’t make coke. But the price of
the German and Welsh coke was deadly—up to £5 per
ton. In 1890, when the Australian coke business began
to feel its feet, the Australian article was valued at £1
6s. fid. per ton at the works. The N.S.W. Statistical
Register for 1890 shows that 38,003 tons were imported
to N.S.W. in that year, at a cost of £192,140—£5
Is. per ton ! Then, with the Dibbs duty on coke
to help them, the smelters began to ' find out
that it was all an unpatriotic lie that Australia couldn't
make coke ; and works went up in several places. From
5245 tons in 1892 the output increased to 55,991 tons last
year. But as important a thing as that increase in out-
put is the fact that from the £5 just mentioned (the cost
of the imported article) the selling price has fallen to
11s. lid., last year’s average. So Australia makes all its
own coke now, and makes it for less than one-eighth of
what it once paid to the foreigner. What chat means to
the mining and smelting business is too obvious to need
mentioning. That is how Protection “puts up prices.”
Yet remember how the S.M. Herald and Argus en-
couraged the metal miners (paying £5 a ton for coke) to
howl at the Dibbs Government on account of “ the blow ”
it aimed at the mining industry when it put on the coke
duty?
The Australian Metropolitan Life Assur-
ance Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
Expenses Total Added
Total and Out- to
Aug., Income. Claims. Dividends, goings. Funds.
1897.. £4,540 £133 £2,754 £2,887 £1653
1898 .. 6,393 751 4,423 5,174 1219
1899 .. 7,252 992 5,102 6,094 1158
1900.. 9,386 1277 5,934 7,211 2175
1901 .. 11,023 1483 6,551 8,034 2989
Taken from
Funds.
1902.. 12,657 3775 13,633 17,408 4751
Added to
Funds.
1903 .. 17,235 2380 13,879 16,259 976
1904.. 18,146 2765 13,964 16,729 1417
1905 .. 18,547 3665 12,412 16,077 2470
Taken from
Dec., Funds.
1905.. 6,059 2019 4,091 6,110 51
Added to
Funds.
1906 .. 21,048 5767 12,801 18,568 2480
The general position can be summed up in this way :
Total accumulated funds £11,985
Office property written up (1898) .. £10,095
„ „ again ~ (1901).. 5,500
£15,595
i, „ written down (1902) 5,500
10,095
Insurance fund as represented £22,080
As to these assetsthat have been written up : If the}' are
over-valued, then the funds are really not what they are
represented to be. Of the assets, £24,600 is freehold pro-
perty and £10,946 Government securities, policy loans,
&c. Assume.that this £10,946 earns 3} per cent. =£4lo.
Total interest and rents are £lOlB ; thus £6OB is left to
represent the earnings of the £24,500 freehold ; and that
means only £2 9s. Bd. per cent, per annum. Either, then,
on this basis, the co. doesn’t charge itself sufficient rent
for the premises, supposing it occupies them, in which
case its true expense rate is higher than is represented,
or the property is over-valued, and the insurance fund
shown does not exist. In addition to the fund there is,
however, shareholders’ capital amounting to £9227, and
under the circumstances, as dividends are not often paid
(none was paid in either 1905 or 1906), this is a material
advantage to policy-holders.
The co. now closes its books on December 31st
instead of August 31st, and two statements are, there-
fore, available—one for four months to the end of 1905,
the other for 1906. For the purposes of the following
comparison the 16 months are treated as one period :
Outgoings (apart prom Claims) Compared with Income.
1899 .. £7O 7 0 per cent. I 1903 .. £BO 10 6 per cent.
1900 .. 63 4 5 „ I 1904 .. 76 19 1 „
1901 .. 59 8 7 I 1905 .. 66 18 11
1902 .. 107 14 3 ~ I 1906 .. 62 6 4 „
Both ordinary and industrial business is done, but the
two are not fully distinguished. It is, however, men-
tioned that “in the ordinary department 503 policies
assuring £41,650 were issued.” When in the ordinary de-
partment the average size of the policy is £B2, anything
like a low expense rate is simply out of the question.
(In 1905, by the way, it was mentioned that 2280
industrial policies assured £51,165, which would mean
an average of £22.) This is insurance on the very lowest
scale—for a shilling you get four pen ny-ha’porth of in-
surance ; the other 7.',d. goes in chasing you, first to
insure you, and then to keep you insured, it is a shock-
ing waste, for which not the < ffice but the system is
responsible. The question at present is whether it isn’t
better to have even this insurance than none at all.
Certainly the Miners’ Accident Relief Fund, under which
the miners of N.S.W. are insured without any expensive
chasing, points the way to cheap insurance. For the
present, anyway, it seems, no voluntary system can be
cheap.
**• * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit
representing preliminary and flotation expenses :
Dividend
(5 p.c.) Written To Re- De-
Profits. and Bonus. Off. serves, licit.
May, 1903 .. £lO7l
Jan., 1904 .. £1450 £456 £994 77
July, 1904 .. 258 638 457
Jan., 1905 .. 1896 £1331 265 300 157
July, 1905 .. 1637 1441 215 176
Reserves.
Jan., 1906 .. 2661 1786 440 435 259
Julv, 1906 .. 1884 1864 267 12
Jan., 1907 .. 3450 2458 471 521 533
Six months ago the bonus on purchases (6d. in the £)
was estimated to call for £llOO, which would have left
reserves of £215. As a matter of fact, they called for
£1303, and left reserves of only a poor little £l2. This
sort of miscalculation may easily deceive the directors into
declaring a larger bonus than the circumstances warrant.
The present bonus has been increased to 9d. in the £.
The figures certainly look better—profit has increased
very well. But it is still a question whether the bonus
should have been increased in view of (1) the very heavy
debt, (2) the large risk of depreciation of stock (valued at
£23,562) and the insignificance of the reserves, and (3)
the fact that, though profits are shown as over 80 per
cent, larger than in the preceding half, sales increased
only from £54,762 to £55,703. The capital now is £29,655 ;
liabilities (debentures, &c.) amount to £29,917. Instead
of using profit to wipe the debt out, the society is urging
shareholders to put in more capital—which is risky, any-
how, because it can be' withdrawn on short notice.
Possibly the Civil Service shareholders are a poor lot of
co-operators, after all, who grab at bonuses whether by
doing so they imperil their own society or not; but they
might at least reflect that if they imperil the society they
not only imperil their own capital, but threaten to
deprive themselves also of all those advantages which a
well-established co-operative society would bring them
later on.
* * * •«
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Net Added to . Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1896 .. £7,793 Nil £7,793 £29,814
1897 .. 12,131 Nil 12,131 41,945
1898 .. 39,624 2£ p.c. = £7,300 32,324 74,269
Loss.
1899 .. 38,092 2£ „ „ 7,300 28,877
1900 .. 27,060 Nil 1,817
Deficit.
1901 .. 11,967 Nil 10,150
Profit.
1902 .. 3,847 Nil 3,847 6,303
Reserves.
1903 .. 15,023 2£p.c. = 7,300 7,723 1,420
1904 .. 22,329 5 „ „ 14,600 7,729 9,149
1905 .. 19,605 5 „ „ 14,600 5,005 14,154
1906 .. 21,801 5 „ „ 14,600 7,201 21,355
But the year has been better than that, as this shows :
Improvements,
&c., Net Gross
Written-off. Profit. Profit.
1902 .. £10,621 £3,847 £14,468
1903 .. 679 15,023 15,702
1904 .. 5,303 22,329 27,632
1905 .. 4,805 19,605 24,410
1906 .. 11,158 21,801 32,959
The co. owns Thurulgoona and Bundaleer, on the N.S.W.-
Queensland border, where it sometimes rains, but gene-
rally doesn’t. Lately it has been having a good run of
seasons ; and shares (£3 paid), which were quoted down
to 4s. in 1901, have crept up to 355. The figure shows how
investors still mistrust the business, in spite of its recent
brave show ; for at that price a 5 per cent. div. means a
return of over 8£ per cent. From first to last, however
—the co. is now 24 years old—it has only averaged about
1£ per cent, on its capital. But it has an advantage now
which it did not have for many years. Its rent and
tenure have been improved, and after deducting the value
of the wool clip, the overdraft, &c., have been reduced to
£26,805. Even as recently as 1898 the mortgage alone
reached £70,000. If in 1883 the co. had paid £250,000 in-
stead of £420,000 odd for its Thurulgoona and Bundaleer
and their 300,000 sheep, the results would have been, on
the whole, fair. But, like most people, it miscalculated
the capacity of the inlands, and where it ran over 300,000
sheep it now has under 150,000. That was the beginning
of the whole trouble. As it has paid off its heavy debt, it
has written down the book value of the property ; and
those writings-down account for some of the heavy losses
shown in the table. It is still a gamble, but its outlook
is not, for the reasons mentioned, to be judged by its
dividend history.
* * * *
Barrier Co-operative Society, Ltd. (Broken
Hill, N.S. W.): —
Divs.
Profits. (5 p.c.) Written Re-
and Bonus. Off. serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £596 £371 £lO2 £169
June, 1905 .. 1129 591 232 475
Dec., 1905 .. 1236 ' 766 183 762
Julv, 1906 .. 1363 950 126 1049
Jan., 1907 .. 1517 1083 99 1384
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate : the
exact amount of the bonus (Is. in the £) cannot yet be
determined. Also this society allows non-shareholders
a small bonus on their purchases. In the foregoing this,
being a discount, is deducted from profits. For a co-
operative society, the growth of reserves is excel-
lent. Moreover, the society, besides being co-opera-
tive, is whole-souled Australian. Thus the com-
mittee reports :—“ We are pleased to state that
our consistent efforts to popularise goods of Aus-
tralasian production and manufacture are meeting
with response from our customers, but not to the extent
which we desire ; and so we take this opportunity of
again requesting our shareholders to cultivate a spirit of
patriotism, believing as we do that as good an article can
be grown and made in our own country as in any part of
the world.” To this and its other virtues the society adds
a donation (half-yearly) of £5O to a distressed members’
fund.
* * * *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce deal' r.s, etc., from the time £4OOO of
reserves was applied to buy up the special rights of “ B ”
shareholders:—
Net Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. serves, serves.
July, 1901.. £7,288 34J p.c. =£9,519 £5,082
Jan., 1902.. 9,165 44 ~ ~13,269 978
Julv, 1902.. 18,089 10 „ „ 3,395 £14,694 15,672
Jan., 1903.. 12,926 30 „ ~10,185 2,741 18,413
Tnlv lorw / 5 > 610 10 » » 3 > 500 2,1101 os -„o
1 ’ ' * \ Unexplained additions.. 8,000 f
Jan., 1904.. 2,840 10 p.c.= 3,500 27,863
IQn , / 2,911 10 „ „ 3,500 I -. 07 ,
July , 1904.. | Written off> j 14,274
Jan., 1905.. 5,052 7| „ „ 2,625 2,427 16,701
July, 1905.. 6,254 7| „ „ 2,625 3,629 20,330
Jan., 1906.. 6,593 7£ „ „ 2,625 3,968 24,298
July, 1906.. 6,311 10 „ „ 3,500 2,811 27,109
Jan., 1907.. 6,274 10 „ „ 3,500 2,774 29,883
For some time past there has been very little profit in
the Queensland business ; last year, on an average capital
of, say, £20,000, it showed under 5 per ceiit. This branch
has now been sold, but the transaction isn’t taken into
the present accounts. The co.’s capital is £70,000;
liabilities to public are £46,991, as against £46,864 twelve
months ago. Trade risks have increased rapidly of late.
Watch the movement of assets : —,
Jan., ’O3. Jan.,’o6. Jan.,’o7.
Gash .. .. .. £33,032 £8,030 £12,735
Premises, &c 15,447 18,101 18,676
Stock 15,140 37,463 32,184
Book Debts .. .. 55,293 64,463 68,550
M’Oulloch Co 22,203 14,418 16,478
It is not apparent than any provision for bad debts and
depreciation is made—apart, of course, from reserves ;
but if you look at the reserves to provide for depreciation,
&c., then part of both profits and reserves is of course
doubtful. The disclosed profits for the past year are so
little under 13 per cent, on capital and reserves that the
difference doesn’t matter ; and a 13 per cent, return
leaves a fair margin for a change of luck.
* * • .»
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Oct., 1903 ..£355 4J per cent. =£4lo £654
Apr., 1904 ’.. 429 4J „ ~ 414 £l5 669
Oct.., 1904 ..401 4£ „ ~ 367 34 703
Apr., 1905 .. 349 „ „ 331 18 721
Oct., 1905 .. 285 4| „ „ 309 697
Apr., 1906 ..300 4£ „ „ 317 680
Oct., 1906 .. 318 4| „ „ 333 665
The society is 35 years old now, and very small for its
age; the South Australian State Land Bank to a great
extent takes the place of a building society, and it forces
other concerns into making advances of this sort at low
rates. The society’s capital is now only £14,561, apart
from accumulated profit, and even that is a trifle more
than it was. Expenses are naturally heavy ; just about
half the gross interest, rents, &c., goes that way. There
are no debts to the public—in fact, there is a credit
balance of £2169, which represents more than an eighth
of all the assets. The society certainly can’t be accused
of riotousness.
* * » *
Equitable Building Society (Launceston,
Tas.): —
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1901 £3Bll 7 per cent. = £3282 £529 £13,068
1902 3630 7 „ „ 3342 288 13,356
1903 3674 7 „ „ 3363 311 13,667
1904 3650 7 „ „ 3270 380 14,047
1905 3264 7 „ „ 2946 318 14,365
1906 2774 7 „ „ 2445 329 14,694
And this shows in more detail some recent ups and
downs—mostly downs :
1901. 1904. 1905. ’ 1906.
Capital £50,883 £52,273 £46,904 £39,633
Deposits 83,677 59,827 61,959 63,135
Mortgages 140,453 118,166 114,162 111,809
Management 1,046 1,198 1,130 1,172
Steadily for the past four years capital has been shrinking
and deposits have been increasing. Deposits are a first
charge ; capital comes in last. If Tasmanian securities
are held in poor esteem, and a shrinkage in value is
looked for, then, of course, investors will lodge their
money as deposits instead of capital, since the capital
has to guarantee the repayment of deposits. This move-
ment of capital down and deposits up is a bad feature of
Tasmanian finance ; it suggests that Tasmanian investors
haven’t got faith in the little State’s future ; and, in view
of the drift of population, investors are no doubt right.
In 1903, £1 of shareholders’ capital only had to protect
about 235. of deposits ; now it has to protect nearly 335.
And shareholders are getting no more for taking the
extra risk. The drift is serious. But the remedy is not
in the hands of the society, as a society: it is in the
hands of the members as citizens. They can keep their
Legislative Council, burking progress, but they will have
to pay for it.
* * * *
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Melbourne) r
Writ- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £B4B 2£ p.c. = £6OO £248 £2469
Dec., 1901.. 1090 2£ „ „ 600 490 2959
June, 1902.. 1210 2£ ~ ~ 600 610 3569
Dec., 1902.. 1365 3| „ „ 800 ,565 4134
June, 1903.. 1188 3| „,, 800 388 4522
Dec., 1903.. 1254 3J „ „ 800 454 4976
June, 1904.. 1190 Nil 1190 6166
Dec., 1904.. 151 Nil £4497 1820
June, 1905.. 902 Nil 902 2722
Dec., 1905.. 823 Nil 823 3545
June, 1906.. 842 Nil 1387 3000
Dec., 1906.. 973 Nil 973 3973
The property is a leasehold ; and, as nothing has been
written off the book-value during the half-year, both the
true profits and the reserves are less than represented
above. At June, 1905, after the alterations at the theatre
were finished, the overdraft amounted to £i0,745; this
has now been reduced to £7150 ; and, as the interest bill has
shrunk from £363 to £2OO in the same time, the progress in
the liftingof the debt should now be swifter. Also, Meynell
and Gunn have taken a five years’ lease of the house, so
Miss Coppin and the other directors won’t have to worry
about the ground rent of £lBOO a year ; though, with
that much to pay out first, the hope of anything like
rich dividends is too small to hang even a pantomime
joke on. A3£ per cent, dividend is the most ever theco,
reached in its history of 16 years.
Universal Land and Deposit Bank (Sydney)
o ct Addedto Re-
-r „ * ones. -Dividends. Reserves spi*vps
June, 1901 £653 40J per cent. = £1372 ’ £3673
Dec., 1901 659 76£ „ , ->6lO 17^
Dec 6 ' 1909 4 tll f ” ” 204 *M7
Dec., 1902 456 6 ~ 206 «9qq
June, 1903 2552 42 „ „ 1449 mo 7349
Dec., 1903 385 6 ~ 205 180 7529
June, 1904 445 6 ” 205 240 7769
Dec., 1904 522 6 „ „ 205 317 8086
Loss.
June, 1905 240 6 „ „ 205 7641
Dec., 1905 115 6 „ 205 7321
Profit.
June, 1906 90 6 „ „ 205 - 7206
Loss.
Dec., 1906 2289 _ 4917
There is no mention of a dividend, and so presumably none
is beingf paid, which isn’t surprising' under the circum-
stances. The loss disclosed is made up as follows: —Loss
on ordinary business, £195; contingent account written off,
£3/3 ; written off value of estates, £1721. Thecontingent
account is a reserve used to safeguard the time-payment
land-sales business. Evident!} this hasn’t been panning
out as had been expected. In spite of the abundance of
capital in Australia, the suburban land boom has been a
very small thing this time ; there has been hardly any
speculative buying. Disappointed that way, this co.
announces that it is now going to cultivate “ the
advance business, temporary loans on deeds having been
found to be a profitable source of income.” Well, any-
how', though there is nothing to be joyful at in the fact
that another money-lender has put out a sign, it is some
consolation that the sign goes out because the threatened
suburban land-riot has been a frost. This co’s. financial
position has changed but little ; its capital is £6842 ; and
its net liabilities to depositors, bank, &c., are £20,950.
Against that are freeholds, written down to £7717, and
balances due by purchasers, £24,843.
* * * * ■
On the strength of the 25 per cent, dividend
(10s. per share) paid last year, and the 50 per cent. (£1)
expected this year. Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) £2 shares
have sailed up past £6. A wonderful pair of old mines
these are ; but they certainly don’t improve with age any
more than other mines. Two things in particular make
the present profits—the metal boom and the cementation
process. Those who believe that the metal boom isn’t a
boom will not see anything wrong' with the price. But
there are others, who reckon it a good deal fairer to take
the past dividend record. Here it is for 12 years:—
1895 .. 5 per cent. 1901 .. 5 per cent.
1896 .. 5 „ 1902 .. Nil.
1897 ..10 ~ 1903 .. 2 £ per cent.
1898 ..5 „ 1904 .. 2£
1899 .. 5 „ 1905 .. 2| „
1900 .. 12J „ 1906 ..25
That is 80 per cent, for 12 years, an average of 6f per
cent, per annum on £2. But if the co. pays 50 per cent,
this year, that will be 130 per cent, for 13 years, or an
average of 10 per cent. It is very doubtful; however,
whether 10 per cent, is too much, remembering that a
mine is a wasting security ; if so, on the 13 years’ record,
£2 is the fair price of the shares, plus the surplus of
liquid assets, equal to about £1 6s. per share on Decem-
ber 31,1906.
As mentioned just now, the cementation or
salt-water and acid leaching process has greatly helped
profits during the past four years or so. The leach-
ing started at the end of 1901, and it was then estimated
that it would take about seven years to get most of the
copper our,. The estimate has had to be varied since;
but it will be seen, anyhow, that revenue from this source
will not be spread over very many years. While it lasts,
though, it is an extremely profitable branch. The 772
tons of fine copper which it produced at Moonta last year
cost, including smelting, shipping, &c., only £32 19s. lid.
per ton, while all costs in connection with the smelting
ores ran to £72 11s. per ton. This last is a very stiff price.
Take off, say, £3 11s. per ton to represent the value of
Moonta copper over standard, and £69 still remains. In
1905 (making the same deduction) it was £5B per ton. The
difference is partly' accounted for by higher wages and
more expenditure on plant, &c., charged to revenue.
Even at £5B per ton—supposing those costs could be
maintained—there would be mighty little margin in most
years. In fact, in only 10 years out of the past 25 has
the average price reached £5B. Between 1889 and 1899
the price in no year averaged more than £54 10s.; and
that was the 10-year period, it is worth remembering,
which immediately followed the previous great copper
boom. It isn’t suggested that the two booms are in every
respect the same; there is a very large increase in the
consumption of copper now, and there was no very
marked increase then. But both had the same effect in
encouraging copper prospecting, developing new mines,
and re-opening old ones. Also, the high prices on both
occasions sent people off looking for substitute metals or
alloys.
At the best Wallaroo and Moonta are not cheap
mines to work. Last half-year Mt. Lyell produced its
blister copper(which contained 740 z. silver andnearly2£oz.
gold per ton) for £35 4s. per ton. But cheap pyritie
smelting is unknown at Wallaroo. The stuff has to be
laboriously dressed before it goes to the smelters. It is
worth while following the output of 147,190 tons from
Wallaroo: —
Ore, &c. Copper. How disposed of.
Ore .. 45,355 tons 4314 tons Smelted
Tailings.. 61,694 „ 983 ~ For cementation
Waste .. 40,141 „ 127 ~ Underground filling
Total.. 147,190 tons 5424 tons
The smelting ore thus contains only 79'53 per cent, of the
metal in the whole body of ore ; the other 20 - 47 per cent,
is either dumped to be treated by cementation in years
to come, after the air has got at it, or it is treated as
mere waste rock.
■*■***
Horseshoe Creek (Northern Territory), after 12
months’ work, affords a striking illustration of the
methods of the Chinese tributor and miner. The Ven-
ture syndicate, which holds 480 acres, let the property to
Mongolians on a 10 per cent, basis—all except one show,
Boylin’s. One rich hill was pig-rooted till it resembled
a rabbit-warren ; now, since the wet season set in, the
workings have fallen in. This will make it very hard to
pick up the leaders. The Mystery, a claim which in its
last month produced six tons concentrates from 30 tons,
valued at £6lO, has also collapsed. All these workings
should have been condemned long ago ; but in the Terri-
tory “ mining ” is carried on anyhow.
* * * *
At Mount Todd (N.T.) a ten-stamper battery
should have started by this time. The people are more
progressive here. White men are employed in the bat-
tery and have erected it. A Progress Committee (the
only one in the Territory) has been formed. Salway and
party have 60 tons material at the mill averaging 12 per
cent, black tin. Morris has 500 tons of 6 per cent, material
paddocked, and Elliot 170 tons of 8 per cent, stone. Mr.
Buttle’s charges of £1 a ton for crushing will give these
men a lift, and a large amount of 2Jper cent, and 4 per
cent, material that has been lying at grass will be con-
verted into cash. The future of this field looks good.
The deepest shaft is down 100 ft., where the lode measures
3ft., and will apparently live.
“ Mainshaft ” : Par in B. 21/2/’O7 suggests that
the Northern Territory Mines of Australia, Ltd., had to
turn down its Iron Blow proposition because of “ expen-
sive staff and frills and a horde of Chinese, who are past-
masters at dodging graft.” This may have been so in the
early days of the co., but it certainly is untrue of T. I.
Dyson’s management. The fact of tributors getting on
to 50 tons or so of very high-grade ore in the Ellison is
nothing against the management either. The little, in-
expensive tributor can make money where an equipped
co. would lose it.
* * * *
L. C. Ball, of the Queensland Geological Sur-
vey, was lately sent up to Cloncurry (Q.) to get an
opinion as to the permanency or otherwise of the lodes.
His full report, with map, will be published in a, few
weeks; meantime he has drawn up some “Advance
Notes.” Possibly he wasn’t given time to sort out his
opinions; anyway, they amount to about this—that
some will and some won’t, or, if they don’t, they look as
though they might. “ Their occurrence was found to be
in many respects similar to that in the Cobar and Mt.
Lyell districts ” [by the way, Oobar has only two div.-
paying copper mines, and Lyell has never had more than
one), “ the most noticeable difference being the greater
number of smaller, but richer, crops.... The ore deposits
are of three kinds: rich lenticular bodies in shear zones,
which may be considered almost as permanent as true
fissures; lenticular bodies and impregnations of the
strained rock in crush zones; and poorer
nations of originally porous bands of country. ’ The cruet


" J: TT'^—- ■ ■■
Make
Of
•V
So u\atit .
Wilt be <&*Of "■
<•
out
J X^V.
V-
me
**‘Mm
its
H
•: .
r ’••'/? 4 "
58*1
A :
supply of ore has been from bunches of secondary
sulphides, enriched by leachings from poorer ores that
have disappeared. “ The primary sulphides, having been
derived from underlying acid igneous intrusive magmas,
may be expected to continue up from water level, and
bunches of secondary sulphides may be expected at least
down to water level. However, when the rich shallow
bodies have pinched, instead of sinking and driving being
continued in search of other bodies, work has ceased,
and a tradition has thus originated that Cloncurry lodes
are simply surface accumulations.” Byway of a general
conclusion : —“ The generally scattered and isolated
occurrence of the ore,bodies and their comparatively
small size (for the high grade deposits of large size yet
found are few in number) must always handicap the
field ; but there is an immense amount of ore to be won
in the Cloncurry district while the price of copper
remains high.” Which last is pretty poor comfort,
seeing that the railway cannot possibly get out to Clon-
curry for nearly 12 months, and a lot of things may
happen in a boom copper riiarket in 12 months.
Surveyor Ball’s notes on individual mines are
fragmentary and generally very inconclusive. Of Hamp-
den he says that “ all the richer ore has been removed by
tributors, and the character of the workings indicates
that its occurrence was very irregular ” ; practically none
payable under present conditions is visible ; and no esti-
mate of the ore-bearing zone can be made. Of the Mt.
Hope the crop is 20ft. thick : “the richest parts do not
appear to carry more than 10 per cent, copper, while the
greater part is quite barren. Leaching must, however,
have taken place, and the lode is therefore worth pros-
pecting.” The Duchess (“ varying between 6in. and
7ft.”), “besides being one of the richest and most ex-
tensive,” “ has every prospect of being persistent in
depth.” Mt. Elliott outcrop is dense limonite; the
average value is from 15 per cent, to 20 per cent. “ One
shaft has been sunk in ore to a depth of 225 ft. On
the 125 ft. level the ore body has been proved by
driving over a length of 160 ft. and by crosscutting over
a width of 50ft. in the central part. Here also the ore
(mostly limonite), though sometimes barren, is believed
to carry on the average between 10 per cent, and 20 per
cent, copper, there being considerable bodies of rich
black oxide scattered through the poorer ground. At
the ends of the main drive and in the lower workings
developments have not been altogether satisfactory, but
enough work has not yet been done for a definite state-
ment to be made.” Altogether, in fact, the whole thing
is something extra in the way of a gamble.
* * * *
You can tell from the recent experiences of
Peak Downs (Q.) what it means for only one small market
to be interested in a mining stock. “ Squeakies,” as
Brisbane insists on calling them, were rushed up from
their 6s. paid to about 655. There is only a handful of
shares, and the line had been oversold ; but the Wall-
street smash was used to rake in a few to cover with. At
present the market is miles apart. Sellers ask anything
up to 605., and buyers mention 38s. ; ana as there is no
other ’Change interested, the gulf remains at that. In a
market like this a sale of 50 shares or so fixes the nominal
price. But if a holder tried to sell a solid lump of shares
at the price, he usually finds that things are not what
they seem.
* * * • ’(
It is much the same with Mt. Canninflah as it
is with Peak Downs, though a few shares in the former
have now trickled down south. This is, however, counter-
balanced by the absurdly large swag of shares : 300,000
were out before, and now Bewick, Moreing and Co. have
got hold of 60,000 at ss. On that the market jumped;
but the dead weight was too great. Still, apart from the
price, which, all things considered, is good, the former
shareholders ought to score ; for there is a chance now
of a better market being made for the stock —one of the
conditions of the sale was that a London register should
be opened. Metallurgist Fawcett was at the mine, and
overhauled it on 8.-M.’s behalf, and the chances are that
he will join the Board. Said Board hasn’t been too
happy a family; but J. D. Campbell was recently
appointed as a fourth director, and 8., M. and Co.’s
nominee will make the fifth. When the deal is com-
pleted, the co. should have about £20,000 in hand.
Monthly profits are not far short of £2OOO ; but £2OOO is
less than ljd. per share per month. The mine calls for
more rapid development; the mill has got ahead of the
mine, and can’t keep the smelter supplied—which is the
usual way with Queensland mining.
Mt. Hector (Central Queensland), one of the
few northern copper concerns that don’t have to carry a
big swag of shares, has had a lot of trouble, but things
appear now to be about straightened out. Thomas Gibb
—Gibb the elder—has been up seeing the new furnace
blown in, and the first tap was expected to be taken off
at the end of last week. His faith in Mt. Hector doesn’t
waver. The Gibbs are putting their backers still further
into Central Queensland, though Glassford Creek shut-
down has been a wet blanket to them lately. Reports
from there are still conflicting. But, though it is
reported that there is now plenty of smelting ore avail-
able, late manager Bailey (who was understood to have
come down to Brisbane to consult about things) doesn’t
return. He has gone up to look after the properties of a
new co., the Gibb Copper Mines, Ltd.—mostly resurrec-
tions.
* * * *
Kelly’s Block has lately been fashionable
property at Charters Towers, for, though it has but a small
output, it yields decent stone. It is 14 years since the
co. started as a producer. In that time 77,819 tons have
been crushed for £393,522. The total dividends run to
£188,400, or 375. per share. The co. had some leisure
moments a couple of years back, and devoted the time to
much needed prospecting work, as the output had fallen
to a cap-full or so per month. This improved things so
that, for the past six months, 3265 tons were beaten out
and treated for £12,153. The make of stone that
came in from the Phcebe hangs out well, and has every
appearance in Kelly’s of reaching the Brilliant Central s
ground. Kelly’s is operating upon three formations ; but
the principal workings are on the top, or 1212 ft. reef. All
through the workings the reef is irregular in size and
strike. On the 1212 ft. reef, two winzes 100 ft. apart are
down, one 263fc. and the other 180 ft., and a level con-
nects the two. In one part of the level there is 4ft. of
stone showing ; 30fb. further in there is but 9in., with
another make going up into the hanging wall. Where the
reef is 6in. thick it carries as much mineral as the
“bulges”do. Stoping prevents any reserves of stone
from accumulating, so it’s a hand-to-month existence
that the co. leads.
* * * *
Pfeiffers Day Dawn, Charters Towers, con-
tinues to improve with age. The output is steadily in-
creasing, and now has reached 400 tons per month. The
main underlay that starts from the No. 4 level is down
365 ft., with a healthy-looking reef overhead. The No. 1
level carries 2ft. of payable stone for a distance of 387 ft.
A crosscut into the footwall has discovered something
new ; a 10-inch reef of fair quality stone is showing in a
rise that is going up. Development at the rate of 140 ft. a
month is being done. It looks as if the old Consolidated
is in a better position to reward backers in the near
future for their confidence than any other show at present
in sight at Charters Towers.
* » * *
G. P. Doolette, the Anglo-Westralian, has
taken an option over the Fitzroy (Q.), from Captain
Philip Charley. The Fitzroy (the old Mt. Chalmers,
Eoekhamptori district) has the makings of a very big
copper-gold property, but it calls for well on to £lOO,OOO
to bring it to the front. Charley has large piles of
Broken Hill coin behind him, but it is a big contract for
even him to take on ; and the option, therefore, needn’t
surprise anybody. #
Ooakes, of Catherine Reef, Bendigo, having
printed a report, now finds a printer’s devil to recollect
it. After all, it is not unnatural that Coakes should be
keel-hauled a little. The Bendigo boom has burst, and
one of the biggest contributors to the burst was the
Catherine Reef collapse. Not that Bendigo people
suffered much, as the crowd there sold high and
have been waiting ever since to buy low from out-
siders, which is how Bendigo makes much of its
money. The slowness with which the new Catherine
plant has been got needn’t be dwelt on ; for that is
another way that Bendigo has. Besides, it hardly matters
in the present case. Adelaide lias a big pot of Catherines,
bought on the up-grade, and, in its chagrin, it is firing
at the Board. Examined, last half-year’s work shows
that stone panned out about 9dwt.—a big decrease on
what Was expected. Still it was highly payable if there
had been enough of it. Results, however, indicate that
there wasn’t. Out of the shoot up to the time it went
underfoot, the co. made £32,600, or about 10s. a share.
There is still stone overhead to stope, and that gives
some show of a dividend. What is needed to brighten up
things is to pick up the shoot at 2300 ft., if it is there. If
the mine had been outside of Bendigo, that little point
would have been nearer solution than it is to-day. Some
of the fathers of the Golden City might trip to Walhalla
to learn bow they get doWti there, though far greater
difficulties stand in the way,
* * * *
Certain directors of the South German, Maldon
(Vic.), have decided to shut the mine to outside inspection
(except as regards the press) for a month. Presumably,
they realise the responsibility they take in doing so. The
directors are trustees for the shareholders, and as such
may say, “ We think the best way to study your interest
is to close up the property.” But the directors are also
partners in a joint enterprise, and what right have
they, without the express authority of their partners,
to deny the latter admission to their own property?
Solicitor Moloney, one of the directors, says that the
Board never gave any of the directors authority to take
the step. That makes things worse, for it looks as if one
or two of the Board are running the claim as they like.
W. H. Gray did that in the old days, but the practice is
not to be commended, though it is one that some min-
ing men like—if they are the one or two. After all, what
is the use of closing the mine ? News has been filtering
as freely to the Stock Exchanges as ever, only probably
it isn’t so reliable ; as it has been favorable, shares have
jumped forward. That indicates the folly of the pro-
cedure, as well as the injustice. If the mine could be
closed up with as little chance of news escaping as if the
thing were a Chubb’s safe, the Board might be excused.
When, however, there are dozens of news leaks, then
shutting out the shareholder means that the broker or
speculator who can buy information can do pot-shooting.
• * * •
Confidence Extended, Bendigo, has been pursu-
ing a dilatory course for a generation or so. Now it is
having a shot at the north ground, through which “ centre
country ” runs. The work should have been done long
ago. Still, better late than never. There is a local up-
heaval of enthusiasm because a crosscut put out in the
north ground at 1150 ft. cut a cap, and still more jubila-
tion when another was got at 1500 ft. But the local
market has to be exclusively depended on, since Bendigo
in tbe boom-tide would not have anything to do with the
rest of the universe, so a cold shoulder is being turned
towards Confidence Extended scrip now.
* * * *
The Victorian coal-lords wail that their Rail-
way Commissioners will not pay above 12s. a ton to them,
and they say they cannot accept that figure. The fact is
that Victorian coal-mining expenses cut into more than
12s. —yet the .cos. expect to live alongside Newcastle,
where costs are much lower. There, however, is a more
cheerful note at the finish of the Jumbunna directors’
report: “ The household trade is being more than main-
tained, and we are hopeful that, at no very distant date,
the co. will be restored to its prosperity.” This remark
hardly fits in with the rest of the report. Or, if the
household trade is sufficient to restore the co. to its
former vigorous financial health, why bother to sell
to the railways at all ? Better bring some
business acumen in, and work the household
trade for all it is worth. There is a pretty big market in
Melbourne ; the co.’s coal has a good reputation, and the
Board ought to be able to push it. But in this connec-
tion, didn’t the co. jump up rates when the coal crisis
was on in Newcastle, and that at a time when the public
was making a concession in railway freights to Victorian
coal ? It may have seemed good business at the moment,
but the readiness with which the co. moved out to ex-
ploit its public has not been forgotten. Therefore, any
ad misericordiam appeal only falls flat. The co., like its
brother, the Outtrim-Howitt, had better make up its
mind to the fact that it has to play the part of a buffer
between the N.S.W. collieries and the railways, and so
must expect knocks.
* * • «
This is the story of the directors of the Mul-
hausen Glen Wills (Vic.). A reef traceable over a range
1200 ft. above the creek level; lode continuous for 2000 ft.;
formation 4ft. to 20ft. wide ; free gold, 4dwt. to lOdwt.;
pyrites, averaging 30z., and water power galore. Vic-
torian gold yields now have a chance to revive, for with
an “ inexhaustible supply of ore,” the Munchausen can
so swell the total as to make up for the shortage in Ben-
digo and Ballarat. Yet there has been no rush after
shares. 15 is a strange, perverse world.
* » * *
The Zinc Corporation has made almost its
first sensible move since it began operations on the
Broken Hill tailings dumps. It has borrowed the
Central mine’s (Sulphide Corporation’s) zinc expert,
and turned over to him the patchwork zinc ex-
traction failure on the British mine. As a granu-
lation plant the previously unsatisfactory flotation
pans are turning out a concentrate worth 45 per cent,
for zinc, and the disheartened staff is regaining its cheer-
fulness. But the Zinc Corporation has yet to face the
reality of things. Experience has shown that no zinc
process has yet been discovered that will yield a profit
on 10 and 11 per cent, tailings when they have to be pur-
chased even at ss. or 6s. per ton. The Zinc Corporation’s
tailings won’t average more than about 12 per cent, for
zinc, for in the old British dump which they bought there is
a lot of carbonate. An attempt to surmount the difficulty
is being made by the installation of magnetic separators
for the recovery of the lead from the zinc concentrate.
This scheme does not hold out any very bright hopes,
seeing that in the process considerable loss must ensue.
In magnetic separation there is always a middle product,
which is valueless, although in this case it will rob both
the zinc and the lead concentrate. Buyers of zinc con-
centrates now stipulate in their contracts for 8 p.c. of
lead in the product, and for every unit less than that the
seller will be fined. The reason of this is that experience
in smelting has shown that the lead carries about 95 p.c.
of the silver recovered. Altogether, the corporation
seems to have a long way to go before it will be able to
sail in smooth water.
* * • •
Broken Hill Block 14 is making a brave show
with its carbonates, which are essentially a surface ore, but
what about its sulphide zone ? Last week’s supply to the
mill was of very poor grade, and only for the fact that
there were some 200 tons in the bins when the
week’s run started, the output would have sung
very small. The fact is now becoming very patent
that Block 14 sulphides are poor and scarce, and
that almost everything was staked on the prospect
of get tine a full hand of trumps at the 600 ft. level; and
the 600ftr level has, after much probing, been thus far not
much better than a blank.
m * * *
Sydney will presently own practically all the
Broken Hill Junction North. The sharebroking Palmers
(one of the family is manager) say, in their monthly cir-
cular, that during this year—in less than three months—
“between 40,000 and 50,000 have been bought through
our office, mostly , for investment.” For months the
Palmer circular has been urging the firm’s clients to snap
up the shares “for investment.” Now, of course,
Palmers have to hold up the market, and when another
capital has a thousand or two shares to sell, Palmers are
expected to buy. If they don’t, a hint follows that the
shares will be thrown at the market; and there is now no
group outside Sydney sufficiently interested to go to the
the shares have come Sydney way; and when the
Sydney mining market—the poorest in Australia —
gets the stock in its own hands, it will be
a very sick stock indeed. "For investment” purposes
this, of course, won’t make any difference ; the milling
machines won’t care whether shares are 355. or 35d. _ But
99 people out of 100 always look to getting out of mining
scrip at some time or other. Looking at the Junction
North as an investment, there isn’t a doubt that it is a
wonderfully improved mine, so far as ore developments
go ; but, apart from the fact that its workings are not
secure, the results of its milling are still in doubt. The
extraction is fair, but nobody supposes that it is the most
refractory ore that has reached the mill, and costs are
not yet mentioned. And, above all, the person who buys
for investment with lead at £l9 10s. is liable to have a
cold time, seeing that in only four of the past 25 years
has the yearly average been above £l5.
* « * *
Things won’t go right with the Ringarooma
(Tas.). In other words, the official estimates and ex-
pectations were all wrong; First the dredge was delayed ;
then alleged inferior materials led to breakages; then
when an attempt was made to get the dredge over the
river, the flood spoke up ; meantime it got to work on
the west side, with poor results, till the river-flow
slackened. Then in the second week after it had crossed
it got into poor ground sprinkled with submerged
timber ; and now new dredge-manager Brown says of the
bucket dredge to which Grayson pinned his faith and the
faith of his Long Tunnel following “ The plant has not
been working satisfactorily ; the bucket pins are the
worst that it has ever been my lot to have anything to
do with; the band has parted three times in 11
weeks.” Still, the new man says he has been boring,
and—" 1 hopestly think that the dredge will be
worked at a fair profit till we get back to the bottom
end of the lease, when we shall follow a splendid run
of ground proved by boring.” But it will take more than
that to shake up the dry bones. Financial position is
that the co. now has liabilities £368 ahead of liquid
assets; and, assuming that mine (£7500) and plant
(£8694) are worth what they cost the co., it still has
£3477 of profit and loss leeway to make up.
* * • *
“ M.C.” : Be sale of Hercules’ zinc ore (Tas. )to
the Germans. The folly of exporting enormous quantities
of Australian ore to foreign smelting works has not yet
struck Australia as it struck Canada, where it suggested
a bounty on smelted lead, or as it struck the Malay
States, which imposed a heavy export tax on tin ore.
It naturally doesn’t occur to the Australian Freetrader
that there is anything mad in exporting ore from a
country even though it has numerous smelting works
and cheap coal. But what are the Protectionists doing ?
America and Germany guard their smelting trade with
jealous care, while Australia does nothing. It scouts
the idea of bounties, subsidies, railway rebates, or an
export tax. Yet these things have become part and
parcel of competitive trade, the foreigner uses them, and
Australia must.
* * * *
From a good judge in the West : — “ Barrambie
Ranges (W.A.) has proved a fiasco ; the crushing for an
average of 14dwt. is said to have astounded the directors.
Manager Aldridge is to return and resume management,
while Manager Morgan is to take charge once more of the
South Barrambie. In November last it was stated that a
north-and-south reef traversed the property, and that it
was sft. to 6ft. wide, of which 2ft. were rich, and good
returns were predicted. Mine is fully equipped with an
up-to-date plant, and there is no apparent excuse for the
poor return, if 14dwt. can be called poor. The value of
the reef should be pretty well known, as so long ago as’
last November 200 ft. had been driven at the 45ft. level,
and 400 ft. at 100 ft. Manager Aldridge reckons that the
crushing must have been taken from a poor stope. If so,
it was a shocking piece of bad luck, considering the
amount of development done. It is more likely to be
another case of inability to judge values.”
* * • *
Gwalia Consols, Wiluna (W.A.), is beginning
to attract attention. It is a reconstruction of three con-
cerns, and had till recently a capital of £50,000 in 400,000
shares of 2s. 6d. each. In September last the co. took
over the assets of the Lake Way Goldfields for 28,000
shares, a new issue to that extent being made out of
100,000 new shares created. The purchase included a
20-head Fraser and Chalmers mill, three winders, air
compressor, boilers, &c. All these are now being trans-
ferred, and, with 30 head of stamps at work, the output
is expected to very shortly run to nearly 6000 tons
monthly. The ore in reserve above 100 ft. is said to be
117,000 tons, worth 30s. per ton. No work has been done
below this level, as it was reckoned that the ore in sight
was more than enough to keep the old 10-head mill crush-
ing for five years. The lode opened up is 40ft. wide, but
appears to be very erratic, as monthly crushings have
varied from 17s. to over 395. per ton. There is
another lode on the property, on which very little
work has been done. The Government Engineer, in
his annual report, confirms the manager’s state-
ment that this lode was 180 ft. wide, and richer
than the one being worked. The concern has been con-
trolled by a London crowd without any go, and the mine
has not had a chance to show itself off. The co. has also
been much tinkered with. In 1898 the capital was
£160,000 in £1 shares. In 1900 it was increased to
£625,000 in £1 shares. In 1904 the capital was reduced
to £50,000 in 2s. 6d. shares, and £561,532 was written off.
If the reports on the mine can be accepted, it is one of
the biggest low-grade mines in existence ; yet, after nine
years’ run, it is still in the prospecting stage.
* * » *
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie, is once more on the
rocks, and has promulgated a novel scheme to raise the
wind : £20,000 in 5 per cent, debentures of Is. each are
offered to shareholders. There are 353,190 shares, and
each holder can apply for one debenture for each share
held. The remaining 46,810 debentures can be applied
for pro rata. Of the £20,000 to be raised, if possible, by
this fantastic scheme, £12,000 is ear-marked to pur-
chase and erect a sulphide mill. Judging by the
cost of other mills on the fields, the projected
mill will be a one-horse affair. Shareholders who do not
take up debentures will be left out in the cold, as a lien
on the assets of the co. is given to the debenture holders,
who may forfeit the property if their interest is not paid
at due date. Nevertheless, Australian holders, if there
are any, get no show with the debentures, as applications
closed on January 21, and news about the scheme was
not cabled out. The old co.’s 20-head mill was lately
struck by lightning and wrecked by fire. This
mill and accessories were valued at £BOOO, and were un-
insured. Insurance agents were always sooled off the
place, even during the recent war of rates, when risks
were being accepted at 2s. 6d. per cent. The mill was
useless for hard sulphide ore, and was for sale, and, had
it only been insured, the co. would now be in a moderate
patch of clover.
ft * * *
North Boulder, Kalgoorlie, having again come
to the end of its tether, is to reconstruct with an assess-
ment of 2s. per share. But Australian shareholders got
no chance of applying for scrip, as old scrip had to reach
London by March 27, and notice was not given till too
late. The mine once did fairly well, and paid two divs.
of 9d. and one of Is., but that was back in 1897-9. The
lode then worked underlaid into the Associated; and
although that was known six or seven years ago, the
Associated laid low and did nothing. But owing to the
persistency of tributors in applying for tributes, Manager
Roberts recently started prospecting from his No. 7 shaft,
and cut ore 2ft. wide, and at this point of very high values.
Enough work has not yet been done to judge what the
find is worth. The North Boulder levels have never been
any good, and although a lot of prospecting has been done
down to 1300 ft. nothing payable has been located. The
property has been thought to be situated too far east off
the run of any payable lode ; and the lode worked in the
early days, and now being exploited by the Associated,
has hitherto not been touched in any of the adjoining
properties. On the whole, colonial holders, who have
been deprived of their chance to apply through shortness
of notice, are probably not much the poorer for it. They
may even be richer.
* • ♦ *
Bellevue, Mt. Sir Samuel (W. A.), is to suffer a
further reconstruction, and shareholders are once again
asked to contribute 2s. per share. The co., whose mine
has been worked since 1899, was reconstructed in 1902,
when £75,000 was raised to purchase and erect a 40-head
mill. From first to last, some 300,000 tons of ore have
been raised and treated for a yield of about £480,000, but
the mine has never paid, and, from present appearances
is never likely to. The total working capital provided to
date has been £139,000, and no div. has ever come from
it. Last year’s returns only panned out 56,000 tons for
£68,000, the resultant profit being £3OO, without allowing
for depreciation and London expenses. The last four
months’ returns read November, loss £1920 ; December
profit £710; January, loss £330 ; February, loss £lo3o*
—Thia_shflW-S a net loss of £2570. A proposition such a,
this seems a good venture to leave alone. The ore is so
refractory, owing to the presence of copper, that the
tailings cannot be treated by cyanide, although they are
said to be worth about £2 a ton. The first two managers,
Bizant and Koehler, were worried into their graves in
trying to solve the problem of successfully treating the
ore.
* * * *
The Aerial Tbamways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These tw plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * ■»
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small In.i.d rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts arid levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has onlv one working part—the hammer—which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2Jin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
4 # #
In summarising the figures contained in the
annual report of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited, for the year ended 31st December, 1905,
The Joint Stock Companies Journal (London), in its issue
of sth September, 1906, wrote : —“ He would be an
ingenious manipulator of facts who could, take the records
which we have summarised here, and disprove the state-
ment that they show beyond question that the popularity
of The Colonial Mutual is great and growing.”*
* * * •
As shewing the estimation in which the “Card”
Concentrator is held, we may mention that two of the
largest Broken Hill Companies have removed the tops of
all other Concentrators and replaced them with “Card”
decks. N. Guthridge, Ltd., Sole Licensees.*
« * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est.. 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » »
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* ♦ * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.* # #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• « * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent 'orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
♦ * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* ♦ * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
The whirling and whizzing at the Royal Agri-
cultural Show this Easter week just about establishes a
record, and the whizziest of the whirl is on Arthur
Leplastrier’s quarter-acre Machinery block, where all
kinds of “ Robey” Steam and Oil Engines are adding to
the hum, the more conspicuous being Compound Trac-
tion Engines, Portable Engines, Thrashing Machines,
Electric light Engines, Dairy Engines and steam and oil
engines for everything. The most unique contrast ever
displayed in powers are two Improved “ Robey ” Portable
Engines in motion, representing the largest as well as the
smallest Portable Engines ever seen in the Southern
Hemisphere, viz., an 87-h.p. Portable Engine, which
weighs 15 tons and is en route to a bush saw milling in-
stallation, and a “ Tom Thumb ” type of one-tenth horse
power with one-inch cylinder and of a few.pounds weight,
yet with every detail absolutely perfect; the exhibit is
consequently an instructive example to those interested
in this most convenient type of Portable steam motive
power. “Robey” Engines emanate from a British es-
tablishment with a reputation exceeding half-a-century,
which is appropriately named “Globe Works,”and asthe
Engines have in a variety of ways pioneered the world,
including the Australian mining, pastoral, sawmilling,
dredging, etc., industries, the representative exhibit on
Arthur Leplastrier’s ground is exciting even the most
blasO mind to keen interest.*
* • * •
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
LIL Wild Cat ” continued on mae SI).


HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing'.
We. are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything- chat can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDINC & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN
ALOITINS
‘ ‘ Hassan ” : Along our eastern seaboard
lives a fish which, in its color-changing capacity,
beats the far-famed chameleon. It is the common
blackfish (Girella triouspidata). This accom-
plished person feeds on a certain green weed
from April to October, flinging itself upon the
rocks just awash at high tide, and worrying the
stuff off as a dog worries a bone. Having fat-
tened themselves all the winter, the fish go to a
quiet corner of the beach to spawn, and swim
about near the sandy bottom, refusing bait.
While they are on the reefs they range in color
from a beautiful ruddy bronze to a purple black,
but, once upon tbe sand, they change to a deli-
cate fawn color, with slightly-darker bars across
the back. They come in from the reefs dark, and
in five minutes are the color of the sand. But
the most remarkable changes-of color I have ever
seen were displayed by a small squid I caught a
couple Of years ago at Cronulla.. One of his
transformations was a beautiful ruby-red,.another
a vivid fluorescent green. Just as a dying man
has paroxysms of muscular action, so this beast
had paroxysms of color, wave after wave of chang-
ing tints running through the transparent flesh,
gradually lessening in intensity and frequency as
the life ebbed.
“The Prooslian ” : Re “F.B.’s” inquiry
(B. 14/3/’O7) as to how a person dies from snake-
bite. I may say that, so far, I haven’t died on
snake-bite lines, but can soberly inform “F. 8.”
that he won’t wave his arms and yell in his last
moments. Quite the opposite. The poison of
our Australian snakes causes no paralysis to speak
of, but failure of the heart’s action, without im-
peded respiration. There will, however, be a
rapid obliteration of consciousness, with dis-
ordered sensory functions. The painful feature
about snake-bite isn’t the snake, but the patient’s
relatives, who break in on him with violent
remedies to keep him from sleeping into the next
shift.
tr a * *
“ BurnG.” : “ F. 8.” (B. 14/3/’O7) queries
whether death from snakebite is painless, or is it
etiquette to yell. Cannot give conclusive answer,
but can say, from experience, that different snake-
bites have different effects on the bit one. Have
seen a nigger, bitten by an adder, die in great
agony; and on another occasion saw one, when
bitten by the small Westraiian black snake, give
up the ghost without a remark. But, of course,
niggers can’t be taken seriously. Besides, they
weren’t the same nigger, and the difference might
lie in the man, and not in the;snake. What ! I
would like to know is—supposing a man were
bitten simultaneously by two totally different
varieties of snake, would anything unusual
happen ?
"fr * ■*
“Batlow,” in reply: Ee the borso’s in-
telligence. It seems that I, like 1 my stable mate,
“Prooshan,” have struck a “ John Moran” in thd
person of one “ Duroc ” (B. 7/'3/’o7j. He says he
has been among horses all his life,"arid haS come,
to the conclusion that, “for crass idiocy,horse’
is the limit.” Well, it’s rude to tell a man he’s
mad, and silly to argue with a lunatic, but I must’
do both in this case. Does “Duroc’’not know
that the common sense in man that rises superior
to ordinary common sense is known as “ common
horse sense,” or “horse common sense”? Did
“Duroc” learn at Fitzgerald’s Circus that the
bullock’s intelligence exceeded that of the horse ?
Some horses, like some men, are idiots. Some
men own horses, and some horses own men.
“Duroc” has owned all the idiotic horseflesh.
Well, set an idiot to buy an idiot. Yet, all
is well, for if I bought “Duroc’s” horses
for him, they’d have him running in a sulky
or hauling wood in a week. A horse an
idiot! Ye gods! Did “ Duroc ” ever see an old
rogue “ rumping ” round a big tree in the bush
to elude the searcher’s eye in passing? Did
“Duroc” ever try to ride his “idiot” up to a
sapling for a switch. Has “ Duroc ” ever owned
an idiot that could muffle his bell in grazing? I
have. I also knew one “Brewer” employed in
raising stock-water on Nap Nap, that required
no driver. As the full bucket reached the
bumper at the top, a knock was given, and the
concussion, operating on the bucket trigger, re-
leased the water. The moment “ Brewer ” heard
the knock, he stopped dead, and listened till the
last drop of water was out, then he reversed, to
let the empty bucket down, another full one iis-
ing as it descended. Promptly at the knock he
stopped again till the outflow was completed,
then off the other way, and so on till the 10,000-
gallon tank was full, when he calmly waited till
a man came to take him out. He never had a
deficit, and must have multiplied the 30-gallon
bucket by the number of knocks. Let “Duroc”
send one of his bullocks to do that, or, failing that,
let “Duroc” (if unacquainted with the language
of man) take the job on himseP
WHAT JIM-JAMS SEE WHEN THEY
GO DRINKING.
MR, JIMJAM: “ Yes, we had a great night of
it. Why, my dear fellow, without a word of
exaggeration I declare I saw fifty men and
women.”
“The Moodier”: Horses have lots of
sense. Often when riding along a strange timber
fence looking for a slip-rail have had to fairly
kick Carbine past a certain panel. Riper ex-
perience has taught me, in such a case, to let him
have his head. He may pull up at a most un-
likely-looking panel. There won’t be the least
sign that you can see of a slip-rail; the mortises
look tight, &c. But try it. Ten to one it has
long ago been used as a slip-rail, and you can get
through it. As a slip-rail finder the horse beats
mere man to shreds. He is the surest slip-rail
divining-rod on earth.
CASTE.
LADY : “ Let me see , aren't you the man that
sometimes brings the wild rabbits?”
FISH MERCHANT : "Me! Wild rabbits! Well,
I've never been so insulted in me life .”
What is suspected of being a relative of
the Tantanoola tiger—if not the very identical
itself—has been causing a scare in South Gipps-
land (Vic.). George Heslop, who feeds his flocks
on the scrub-covered sandhills between the Pow-
lett River and Gape Paterson, recently found that
his jutnbueks were mysteriously disappearing,
and went forth to investigate. He found tracks
“like those of a great cat” leading to a water-
hole, but couldn’t see the thing that owned the
tracks. Next morning there were more tracks,
and the sheep man suggested a hunting party.
The local sports weren’t wildly enthusiastic at
first; they didn’t understand the business, and,
besides, they were busy with the. ploughing, or
the cows, or something ; but at last a band of the
more daring spirits got its gun, and advanced in
fairly good order into the scrub. It failed to get
in touch with the enemy. Tracks there were
galore, and slaughtered sheep, and a dim, mys-
terious air of impending tragedy over all the bush,
but no visible wild beastie. The populace took to
staying at home o’ nights, and putting the parlor
sofa against the door when it went to bed. Also
it kept the children at home from, school for
safety. A plaster cast of the hoof-marks, measur-
ing Gin. by sin., was sent to vet.-surgeon Kendall,
of Melbourne, who couldn’t make much of it, and
Le Souef, of the Zoo, didn’t know either, because
the impression was too indistinct. Then someone
found three hairs on a bush, and asked Le Souef
what he made of them. , but they proved to be off
a dog, and it isn’t a dog that the Gippslanders
are looking for. So a terrified community still
takes its gun when it goes cow-hunting.
* * * *
“ L.0.P.”: Of the horses I have ridden,
have never yet struck one that wasn’t a reliable
homer. Even in the city, have known horses to
find their way home at night through miles of
closely intersected thoroughfares, which were
quite strange to them, without even turning a
wrong corner. As for bush horses, I reckon
every horse in this district is a homer. Have
been out shooting on the Welshpool Plains,
riding an old white horse called Ben, and have
repeatedly left it to him to take me home after
dark, a distance of over 15 miles. This country
is covered with grasstree and honeysuckle in one
monotonous stretch, interspersed with many
dangerous bogs, and here and there a wire fence.
A new chum would have no hope of getting back
to where he started from, once he got well out
on the plains after dusk, as there are no con-
spicuous landmarks and no worn tracks. Yet l
have given this old horse the rein on a pitch-
dark night, and he has never failed to land me
home safely. He doesn’t pull up at other home-
steads, like “Duroc’s” horse, possibly because
he knows I am a respectable married man.
* • * *
“Dux”: In Bulletin (28/2/’O7) “Bush
Directions” joke, the Maori says: “It’s about
11 miles when I’m riding me own horse, but it’s
four miles more on this crock.” Jack Maori is
seldom so lucid as that. Ask him when he saw,
say, Waipiro Billy last, and he will answer,
“ Oh —I think it this day week, a fortni’, tree
week, nex’ week one month ; night ’fore last—
oh, Billy, he ni’ live in te whare all te time at
once—oh yaas. boss ! ”
* * * ¥
It is the commercial traveller who finds
the many changes of climate and water trying.
The experience of Mr. Chas. G. Chapman, who
represents a large Brisbane concern, is not the
exception. He had been troubled for years with
chronic diarrhoea, and was especially bad when in
North Queensland. On one of his trips a fellow
traveller recommended him to try Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy, which he
did, and what he has to say is most interesting :
“ I procured a bottle the first opportunity, and ex-
perienced great relief after taking a few doses,
and was cured before the bottle was finished. I
have not been troubled since, and wish to recom-
mend this wonderful medicine to anyone suffering
from the same complaint.”
Carry a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy in your hand-luggage
when travelling. It cannot be procured on board
the train or steamship. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
Rabbits are already with-
in a hundred miles of Perth
(W.A.), although nearly a
quarter of a million has been
spent by one foolish Govern-
ment after another in wild
attempts to dam them back.
No. 1 fence, erected across
desert country out beyond Kal-
goorlie, simply caused bunny
to shake his lop ears and lie
low. He found the sand nice
and friable, and shifted it from
under the fence. Prospectors
away-back smiled at
the incursion, and it is
vaguely hinted that
they gave the rabbits a
helping hand, scenting
a welcome change from
everlasting tiiihed
dog and damp-
en At any
. fate, rabbits
' were soon
as numerous
on one side
of the fence as
the other. Then
the authorities
started an inner
fence, 200 miles
nearer the coast.
The result was just
the same ; so now the
Westr alian Govern-
ment is sitting down hope-
lessly watching the invasion.
Kangaroos are becoming
more plentiful, too, since
close districts were proclaimed
for them. They are of great
size and of prodigious appe-
tite : one mob recently, in a
single night, cleared a 40-
acre wheat crop as it was
ripening. Yet the distracted
farmer was told by the Agri-
cultural Department that he
could only shoot a kangaroo
occasionally for food !
* * *
“F.H.R.” : The brine
was in his whiskers as he
told me this fish yarn. “We were coming
oudt from Norway, andt had been oudt dree
veek ven a sailor caught the benito fish. Idt vas
some four food t long, mid some greadt breadth,
and ve look to the greadt feed. The salt junk vas
ooze tru us ven ve sveadt. The cook shine up a
silver coin andt boil it mid him. Somedimes do
benito he poison ; den de coin come oudt black as
Major de Taylor. Hardt luck it vas, for de
King’s headt vas of the black. Presently a big
Finn said he’d have some iv it kill him, and
plenty more soon join him from de fo’castle, for
de salt horse—aigh ! Next day all who eat heem
get seek. It vas give you bigger head than you
vinde ‘Tattersall’ sveep.” Perhaps some “Abo.’’
fishermen know this “benito” fish; or is my
friend’s fish a whale?
* * *
“ David H. Richards ” ; “John Moran ”
B. 7/2/’O7) is howling up the wrong vegetable
when he says that no Australian snake slimes its
prey. I can from personal observation testify
to the practice in four Australian brands at least,
and recent inquiry on the subject has adduced in-
numerable instances of it in others. Up near
Bingara (N.S.W.) once, a mate and I watched a
tiger snake, after catching a small bird, slime it
and then bolt it. Another time on Donald
Munro’s Widgelray selection (Walgett, N.S.W.),
I saw a bird that had been slimed by a brown
snake when I disturbed it. Saw some time since
at Tooloora Bore (near Walgett, N.S.W.) a,young
bunny slimed by a carpet snake that was disturbed
in his labors by a man with a gun. Also, at
Carinda (N.S.W.), saw a jew lizard that had been
slimed by a snake whose make neither I nor my
mate could determine. I showed “John Moran’s ”
par. to a miner and an opal-buyer at Lightning
Ridge, and they swore till they got so thirsty that
they shouted, and when they were moistened
they recited a bushel of instances of snakes sliming
their prey. Afterwards I found out nearly every-
one has seen prey slimed by snakes.
A DAN
MARCH
NEARER ’OME.
A man has left Creswick (Vic.) in order to die in Aber-
deen when the comet strikes the earth. —Age.
A Rivevitia (N.S.W.) stock inspector re-
cently mentioned one way in which the deadly
anthrax germ can be propagated. A cow died
from the disease, and its economical owner buried
it in a cultivation paddock. A luxuriant crop of
oats grew over the spot, and some of the growth
was given to a horse as green stuff. Ihe horse
promptly contracted anthrax, and the farmer had
another funeral on hand. He burned the horse,
but it would have been a lot cheaper to have
burned the c<nv. Sometimes one feels inclined to
burn that ki. d of farmer.
•*» * * *
Australians are known the world over for
their love of sport and their determination to
excel in all out-of-door games. Angier’s Emulsion
is known the world over for its power to cure
coughs, heal the lungs and build up strength, l
*is the most palatable of all emulsions and a great
aid to digestion. In three sizes, of all chemists.
MY HOESE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My old brown horse has but one ear,
One eye with which to see,
And only some short hairs appear
Where his tail used to be.
He has a classic Roman head,
Four legs of sorts —and thus
He’s still a useful quadruped,
By name Caractacus.
Some folks might say he’s not equine,
The way his napper droops,
And though his snort be gen-u-ine,
He’s rigged on barrel hoops.
He’s got the halt, he’s got the jolts,
He’s got the housemaid’s knee ;
His coat is shaggy, though he moults
With continuity.
His wobblesomeness is to blame
If he is hard to follow,
For never horse was half so tame,
Nor horse’s back so hollow.
His front hoofs cover lots of ground,
And one hind leg’s peculiar ;
But still his pedigree is sound
(His mother’s name was Julia).
Across his loins my wallet flaps,
Before me is my swag,
And ’gainst his chest, secured with straps,
There ain’t no water-bag.
I sit me in the vacancy,
My chin among the flour,
And we pass through the scenery
At quite a mile an hour.
Anon I say, to cheer him up :
“ My horse, thou art an ass,
To sulk like some distemper’d pup,
Because there is no grass.
“ One of these days I’ll find a job,
And you will get a spell ;
I'm sure you’ll fetch quite twenty hob
When you are fat and well.
“ There are some rivers in this part
Could wet the two of us,
And grass enough to fill a cart—
Gee up, Caractacus ! ”
I haul upon the steering gear
To elevate his head ;
He agitates his only' ear,
And staggers back instead.
I whack him with an infant log,
I bob me high and low,
As one who rides a jiggery-jog,
To make the crawler go.
I click my tongue, and hiss and shoo,
Gesticulate and swear ;
I pound him with my leathers, too,
And pull his caudal hair.
He never alters in his stride
(He takes quite ten a minute) ;
He merely snorts and swerves aside
To show that he’s agin it.
I settle down unto the trip,
And whistle “ Yankee Doodle ”:
And then he treads upon his lip,
And chucks the whole caboodle.
If anybody wants to buy
A low-priced household neddy,
I’ve got that article, and I
Can guarantee he’s steady.
Though parts of him are lost, and he
May look somewhat peculiar,
He’s got at least some pedigree
(His mother’s name was Julia).
He has a classic Roman head,
Four legs of sorts —and thus
He’s gen-u-ine, and, till he’s dead,
His name’s Caractacus.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORESSON.


'ScAWWS
TheI®neH* nd
will be on sale throughout Aus-
tralia on May 1.
The great task of organising the production of
a monthly which will be worthy of Australia now
approaches completion, and the proprietary is able
to announce that The-Lone Hand will be in the
hands of 50,000 Australian readers on May 1.
The Editor can now take Bulletin readers —
from whom he expects a generous support to The
Lone Hand— somewhat into his confidence with
regard to the “ bill of fare.”
In the first number will begin “The Memoirs
of J. F. Archibald, Founder of The Bulletin.”
For the first time J. F. Archibald breaks the seal
of press anonymity, and takes Australians into
his confidence. These memoirs make a human
document of absorbing interest. A Photo-
graphic Study of J. F. Archibald, by W.
Maclpod—printed on fine plate paper, suitable for
framing—will be presented with the magazine.
Articles by “ Hop” on fiddle-making; by Frank
Myers on W. B. Dailey; by representative Parisian
journalists on the literary life of Europe ; by
Australian writers of note on literary, dramatic,
and art subjects will form the solid background
to a bright, varied mass of reading. There will
be many short stories from well-known pens—
Henry Lawson contributing the shortest, and one
of the best ; original verse by Victor Daley,
Edward Dyson, Arthur Adams, Roderic Quinn,
and others ; and scores of glittering sentences of
wit and paradox.
Artists represented will be “Hop,” Norman
Lindsay, Lambert, Minns, Spence, Lionel
Lindsay, Weston, Vincent, Rodway, Sass, and
others.
The Lone Hand, besides its mission to amuse,
will have a serious purpose in guarding the public
against frauds and cheats. Watch for the ex-
posures in the first and succeeding numbers.
The surest way of securing The Lone Hand is
to send MOW a subscription of. 12s. for a year,
either direct to this office or to your news-agent.
Those who trust to casual buying may be dis-
appointed.
THE LONE HAND,
214 George-street.
The OLD FIRM
To a business man the statement
that an old-established Firm turns
out a better and cheaper product is
a truism.
Choice Diamonds and 1
Pearl Ring, £l2 12s.
The stamp of old customers’ continued approval has made it an
established firm.
WHY IS IT ?
Experience has taught the short cuts to success.
The old firm has been down most roads—been there before ; then,
of course, capital counts.
Cash buying shows on cost tickets.
Output influences, too, as big buyers buy best.
Reliability—after three-quarters of a century you feel a firm can be
relied upon.
Brooch and Pendant, i Special
Amethysts, 5 Choice Diamonds,
6 Selected Pearls, £8 Bs.
"•"•cSSr**- FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,' 1 "' ow '?£,r”" yHo “ e 23 Hunter Street.
They were man and wife. He was 4(5 ;
she, perhaps, a couple of years younger. They
cirried swags of liberal poundage, and they
c imped on the roadside, amongst the trees, near
Cody’s holding. After dinner the woman rigged
the tent while the man went up to the road-
making job, a quarter of a mile away, in quest of
work. The tent was the craziest thing Cody had
ever seen, and there were more patches than
original canvas, but the woman rigged it in a work-
man-like style, and then threw up a breakwind of
large branches with the expertness of a black gin
and the energy of three. Next she cut two seven-
foot logs, and attached to them a sail-cloth
contrivance on two battens, which so excited
Cody’s curiosity that he stopped ploughing to
investigate. The woman explained that it was a
collapsible double bed, and described how it Was
rolled up for a seat when not needed as a couch.
Halban-hour later Cody heard the woman’s voice
raised in anger, and, looking across, discovered
her shaking a stick at a slouching man with a rag-
bag swag on his back. Said the woman to the
agriculturist a few minutes later: “I hate them
tramps. They never have a decent house them-
selves, and just put in their time tryin’ to impose
on those as has.”
* •* * *
“Ropata”: What follows may be con-
sidered a sample of the Hinglish language as
spoken by some whites at the Bay of Plenty
(M.L.). jack, from the Oripi heights, was down
at the hostelry for rest and recuperation. Oneeven-
ing, fortified by sundry long beers, he had much
to communicate. In the midst of his monologue
he used the words “Yous was;” immediately
paused to consider, then said, “You was.” He
explained the change this way: “You noticed
the mistake I made ? A lot of people round here
don’t know how to speak properly. I told Paddy
in the bar last night that he should never say
‘ Yous was ’ when he spoke to one person. ‘ Yous
was ’is for two ; ‘You was’ for one. Amn t I
right? Bless me, but they don’t know much
here. Paddy said to me ‘ Yous,’ meaning ‘ You ’
—that was one. ‘Yous’ by itself, of course, as I
told him, meant y-e-w-s—female rams. Was I
right?” I assured him he was right. Thus the
light is spread abroad.
THE EVIL THAT MEN DO
LIVES AFTER THEM.
MRS. JONES (whose goose has been run over by
the hearse): “Bad luck t’ you, Bill Dawson;
livin' you done me naw good, dead yon must
kill me goose.”
“ J.M.” describes the making of a
champion:—
The bookmaker and his clerk stood watching the old
fellow suffering a recovery. Presently the bookie said—
“ Suppose, Dad, when you were a young fellow, you were
a pretty good man ? ” His beery eye travelled slowly up
and down the bookie. “ No, young fel’r, I never was no
blanky good for nothing.” The bookie promptly gave
him half-a-crown. “ You’re the first old man I’ve met ”
he said, “ that wasn’t a champion in his young days.”
The old man with the limekiln in his mouth, staggered
into the bar and said “ Rum ” three times. In ten minutes
he lurched out, with a ruddy glow on his hard old dial,
and swaggering up to the clerk said, “ Givvus a match.”
“ Get out, you’re drunk,” said the clerk. “ What’s that,
you weed?” he demanded. “I don’t allow no blanky
waster to sling off at me. Forty-five year ago I was the
best blanky man on Gulgong, and” —here a greasy
beaver was dashed in the dust —“ I’ll take a round out of
any on you now.”
TO THE POINT.
SAM THE SOAK : “ Wot, Peter—why, wot a surprise. You fairly took me breath away, you
come in so sudden.”
P ETER (he always was a nasty man): “ You oughter be glad to lose that breath, Sam.
'There ain’t another like it in the public ouse."
“Rail” : When you work for the Bogan
River (N.S.W.) squatter you’ve got to take the
lean with the fat. Out Dandaloo way, a rabbiter
was entrusted with a Winchester rifle by the big
man. He didn't come back ;so it was reckoned
he was bushed among the gohannas and ants.
The squatter, with an eye to his repeating rifle,
organised a search party, and, after two days, they
got back, full of failure and despondency. Later
on, the local trooper brought word that Bill had
been seen down at Orange, sans the rifle. Then
the squatter wrote a letter cursing Socialism, and
when the rabbiters want to draw their cheques
they found two days’ pay stopped for being
absent from work.
* * m *
Queensland’s black labor devil was really
created by the grasping mercantile soul of one
man. It was Bobbv Towns, whose name still
haunts wharves and
stores in Sydney, who
first harnessed the glossy
Polynesian to the
plough apd the harrow.
He had been using Poly-
nesians on his copra-
gathering boats in the
South Seas, and when
he started to grow cot-
ton on the Logan River
he quietly landed a lot
of his darkies in an un-
frequented part of the
bay, and conveyed
their, to his farm with-
out the knowledge of
the Government or any-
one else. One dAy
Brisbane was startled
by seeing black bullock-
drivers switching Bobby
Towns’ cotton teams
through the public
streets. It almost led
to a riot at the time.
Queensland had got rid
of assigned convicts,
and Chinese had been
found useless for heavy
farming or station work, but now the State was
confronted with the coolie, who took almost
nominal wages and dossed in a dog kennel. Out
of this sprang the Government provisions for-
recruiting, and all the other sham regulations
for the “humane” management of the traffic
that went on till the Commonwealth smashed the
system. # ,
“ David H. Richards ” : The Bulletin
(14/2/’O7) records seriously that it took five people
4hr. lmin. to bail, leg-rope, and milk one cow ;
and on another occasion it took six persons
to yard one bovine. These statistics are pale. It
took a cocky up this way all day Sunday, and a
piece of the night, to only yard one she-ox,
and when he’d finished one horse was dead, and
13 dogs were exhausted. “Jimmie Pannikin is
liable to a fine of £5 for shooting gohannas, and I
don’t see how “Falder” (B. 14/2/07) makes out
that it is worth good cash to see a dingo at a
tiger-cat, when you can observe the religious
organs every day of the week; while as for J.G. s
evidences of tenacity of life m animals, what
about George Reid clinging to Parliament so
long?
A CAMPING IDYLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beneath the trees ’bis wondrous sweet
Canoodling girls with shoeless feet;
And in the sultry summer days
To lie at ease and idly gaze
Across the ba\- from our retreat.
To hear the sheep’s complaining bleat,
And mock the grilling summer heat,
As Christmas plums we slowly eat
Beneath the trees.
Friends come and go on busy feet,
Departing soon with cough discreet;
In coolest shade ’tis good, you know,
To lounge here for a day or so,
When Ruby’s near and time is fleet,
And idly talk of joy and woe,
And flirt and kiss a time or so,
And hear the summer breezes blow
Among the trees.
And when we’re back perchance we’ll fret
For bygone times with vain regret,
For scattered friends and sunburnt knees
And wind-blown hair and idle ease,
And loathe the city etiquette.
The camping days must pass, and yet
The camping days we won’t forget,
Nor friends that you and I first met
Beneath the trees.
M.L.
ATTIN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Keypiece : Questions rather intricate. But
this is perhaps the information you require : (1) Under
present gunnery conditions it would be impossible to
laud every shell at a distance of 12 miles inside a space
10ft. x loft. ; no patent sight would make that possible ;
variations in the gun, in the charge, in the atmospheric
and »'ind conditions, all affect accuracy of shooting. In
snrapiiel shell shooting the idea is to'burst the shell over
the target, not to hit it. (2) No propulsive force has yet
been invented which can for lofig resist the attractive
force of gravitation. (3) A shell.in flight travels at vary-
ing speeds. The greatest velocity is at the muzzle of the
gun ; the velocity gradually decreases until the moment
wnen the attractive force overcomes the propulsive, and
the shell begins to drop at an accelerating rate. (3)
Yes, it is a true arc — i.e., part of a curved line,
but, not necessarily a true arc of a circle
Uastiemaine : Don’t remember. But if you enclose a
stamp with your copy you’ll get it back promptly if
rejected. If accepted, a cheque is promptly sent along.
Oiuuur : Thanks, but Kamsay MacDonald doesn’t
call tor ail that laborious refutation L.E. : So many
have gone down to the seashore with the girl and seen
Venus rise over the waves, and all that sort of soft-boiled
sentiment; and almost as many have round it didn t last.
(When it did last they rarely wrote put-ms about it.) Put
your Muse on a newer road V.G.N. : idea of combining
land settlement with a cash sweep ingenious, but not
practicable.... London Bill: After a profound study of
your scrawl came to the fact that when Governor
Raw-sou went to your town, some of the citizens
wore evening dress and some didn’t. It’s profoundly
interesting news ; nut you should have type-written it—
Georilie No. 5: Old as Potiphar S.B. Narandera:
Nothing of general interest in the extracts you forward,
and they are desperately hard to read Blue Duck:
But where are “ ttiose youthful, smiling Chows that one
meets at every turn in Sydney ” i Haven’t seen them....
T.G. : Well intended, but very weak and faulty in execu-
tion Skeet-Moree : Depends on your age and experi-
ence. if it is a “ first try,” there are possibilities in you.
.S.D. : Very conventional, but not hopeless, for a
beginner Nati: Too trifling for print... .D.S.M. : Has
neither make nor shape... .S.J.S. Has an idea in it, but
P tie else. The artists in question cannot well be com-
pared. Their lines are totally different; and, while
Gibson is probably declining, Lindsay has a big future
before him.... J.G. (Melb.): Couldn’t be much worse !. .
W.B. : The last verse almost carried it.... .Nym : Kelly
Gam 1 ' ” rather dull and pointless. The others fell flat....
Barbara S. : Obviously from life, but scarcely crisp or
bright enough... .Euterpe :The trail of the tyro is over
them both.... S. : “The Pip” gave us ditto... .Nipper :
Dull as a dirge.. . .C.R.N.: Too clumsily put together....
G.A. : Silly and pointless doggerel. ... .M.M.B. : More
sound than sense in it....Chela : You have poetic feel-
ings, but your themes are conventional, and. your work-
manship is defective in places George: A reasonably
good attempt, but you evidently lack experience.. . Jas.
L. B. : Couldn’t decipher your pen-name. Story hasn t
interest enough foruts length.... Premo :Of no use to us.
General: None-of them up to our standard Guy
W ’ Too roughly put together Pionero : llather crude
and inartistic. Vic. stamps are useless here, un.ess loose.
H.P.O.: Same to you about Vic. stamps. “ Veracity
is weak and undistinguished Ekim :No particular
promise Subscriber (Maoriland): The lady was the
wife of Joseph Tapley, the operatic tenor. She was never
even suspected of being engaged to the gentleman you
mention Chelsea : “ Political Conscience ” trolls along
a very Weil-beaten track.. ..C.A.H. (Adelaide): We’ve
got that fool of a Ist of April joke three times
this week, and it has come along about this time
regularly for years. Surely you haven’t the
cheek to pass it off as your own invention.....
Ancient: Mariner hasn’t quality enough..... .Trank
W. T.: “ Confession ”is weak and unoriginal... .H. Jack-
son :To your question—yes ; but your present contribu-
tion has no Australian interest....J.A.S. : You don’t
give the titles of the items you inquire about. The stuff
now to hahd has no merit.... Comet: “ Flood-Tide ” has
a good idea in a clumsy setting. Nothing in t’other....
Winnie : The versification is too wobbly Alaska : Yes,
it shows improvement; but there’s room for a lot more.
.. . .Tinscratclier : To deal with only one of your silly
follies, The Bulletin didn’t back the man you speak of ;
it didn’t write one paragraph in support of him ; and the
only thing which appeared in its columns on his
behalf was a letter, or rather a fragment of a letter,
from an admirer. Moreover, this paper always sup-
ported his opponent. Therefore, you are a liar....
T.G. :j Your Judkins verses are appropriately dull and
stodgv W. Brown: Youhaven’t the skill needed
to work that idea off we 11... .Kelpie : The bush liar is a
weary old subject that only specially bright treatment
would carry .... S. B.T. : Hasn’t a shadow of human inte-
rest . .R. M‘D.: “Be perfectly candid.” Well, then—it’s
inane rubbish.... Double B. : You have humor, but you
lack skill aiid rhvthm-ear... .Teddy E. : Humorous, and
not ill-written, but has too much preliminary description.
H S C.: Short and sharp, hut you can’t rhyme
“Gawd” With “ soared ”... .M.S.W. : Moderate merit
only. “Chums” would suit a women’s paper we 11....
Ivor G. : Lacks spontaneity and inspiration....A.A.:
Rather graceful, b.ut hardly worth print... .Huia : Orna-
mental, hut vague and ineffective J.P.: Rather strained
and artificial....HaFG.: Versification too rocky.. ..Will
M M : Too dismal in tone. Theme needs dash and spirit.
....E. A. McPherson (Queensland): Never even heard
of the poems you mention H.H. : Far-fetched and
feeble Astrades: The fourth stanza spoils it Jack
E. : Workmanship too clumsy.. George Scott: Rather
pretty, but commonplace and unimpressive Jacques :
Correct and svinmetrical in form, but hopelessly flat and
insipid... 5.8.0. : Your syntax is too shaky. Will in-
quire about other item Judex: We haven’t space
to keep track of all the petty parochialisms of the papers.
. W.L. : A poor trifle Munjung: A variant of
the old yarn, “No more blanket, no more hallelujah.”
W.F. : Yes, he is still on deck.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Roy : The “ Rats ” idea isn’t art, nor is it humor. It’s
only offensive W.F.L.: Hardly a strong enough idea...
Werner : Picture is less than nothing, and joke doesn’t
amount to much... MB. : Four suggestions, all below
par—not to say zero H. F.‘: Not nearly good enough...
F. : Don’t see the p0int....W.T.0. : Both quite void of
art, humor, and all the other essentials Robert Shaw :
Never saw' any people like those in your picture, and the
cro w is half "the size of the parson Epsilon: Not
worth while, thanks Unsuitable: E.B.M.


Premier Bent wept when leaving Victoria.
There is a sort of Impression abroad that Vic-
toria’s turn to weep will come later.
V
THRASHED WITH A WHITE-WASH £
BRUSH.
Minister Swinburne has appointed
nice, kind, affable Board to Inquire Into >,
the « Waranga Basin ” charges against 5
his department. He states that he has > t
given the members of the committee a '
free hand. ;
Swinburne (to the Board): “ Lay It on;
show me no mercy—even If I don t
deserve lt. f * \
“ Our naval mission has been fur-
nished with credentials, and will spend
a. short time in Japan studying the
most recent developments In naval
construction and torpedo working in
that country.”
Here we have a prophetic picture of
the kind, little Brown Man throwing
all sorts of valuable information in the
way of the Commission,
NO ESCAPE.
" ,f one ‘bing is said In one street I
can say another thing In another street
It necessary.”
The *anie o| d nightmare follows Prime
Minister Deakin to England.
UNSELFISH.
of t:
1 w “'
Here we have Tommy correction the
most likely thing t 7need
ADStey Btetes that the Labor
Party has accepted the aid of •• forces
quite outside the Labor party, but
i h#S been ,ust, " e<,
represents ‘be qpality of
■ld the Labor cause really gets from Its
£ood, kind, “friendly forces-”
. « There is no widespread demand Jor
a change ... what a valuable check
the Upper Chamber Is upon the House
ol Commons! 1 Thank Qod we have
a House of Lords.’. . ..In all countries
an hereditary landed aristocracy has
been one of the principal sources of
strength to the people. —Qrandmamma
"Argus" on the House of Lords.
It’s no good ; It’s In Qrannle’s blood.
BY HOBSON’S BAY.


ANOTHER CRY FROM THE TOMB.
Voice from the Cavern: “No. I don’t want the Federal Government to get me any immigrants. I don’t want it to help any N.S.W. people that
are stranded in Africa. I won’t sell it the Sydney Observatory; and, all the same, if the Federal Observatory isn’t in Sydney I’ll say it’s
another Victorian conspiracy. What’s that ? No, I won’t be civil. What do I want ? 1 want to be let alone to enjoy my grievances.
What d’ye say? No, I won’t come out!"
( Owing to the blackness of the interior of the cave the artist wasn't able to draw the voice.)


5
siDenffinim
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John D. Rockefeller, the U.S. Oil
Monarch, is said to intend devoting £10,000,000
to the work of christianising China. All his 60
millions have failed to christianise Rockefeller.
Died suddenly, in London, lately, Thomas
Bewick, who used to be senior partner of the
mine-engineering firm of Bewick, Moreing and
Co. He went out of the hustling business in
1901, leaving the Australian, Algernon Moreing,
at the head.
Queensland ex-Premier Philp has had luck
lately in his mining specs. That accounts for his
policy speech. He thought he was writing a
wild-cat prospectus, and promising everybody
100 per cent, dividends.
Drowned, on March 10, while bathing in
the Richmond River, at Casino (N.S. W.), William
Duncan, building contractor, of Paddington (Syd-
ney), who, at the late Federal elections, contested
Wentworth against Willie-Motor Kelly in the
Labor interest.
Few men of long standing in the Public
Service have left N.S.W. with so little comment,
favorable or unfavorable, as Barling, late chair-
man of the Public Service Board, one time
Under-Secretary for Public Works, and the holder
of many high offices in the State. He was a color-
less, ordinary man, who cast no shadow worth
mentioning when he was there, and created no
visible hole when he ceased to be there.
Another heir to lost millions and a title
has turned up in Melbourne in Thomas James
Henley, late licensee of a country pub on the
road to Fern Tree Gully. Thomas says he is the
grandson of Sir Thomas, a Gloucestershire bart.,
with a mansion and property worth five millions,
no less. The only unusual point about the tale is
that the five millions don’t appear to be in
“Chancery” ; they are apparently just lying
around loose, waiting for someone to annex them.
These English aristocrats are a frightfully casual
lot,
Sydney Evening News discussed naval
defence, the other day, in relation to the build-
ing of torpedo boats and destroyers,* and decided
that “ it is probable that, together with the mate-
rials, both machinery and experts would have to
be imported, in which case the vessels might, to
much greater advantage, be made in England.”
Almost on the day that the News poured this edi-
torial hogwash over its countrymen, it was
announced that “Mr. V. Bennett, a young Aus-
tralian mining engineer, son of the late Christo-
pher Bennett, sailed by the Ventura, having re-
ceived an important mining appointment in
Mexico.” Even the News Bennetts can produce
Australian engineers for export to do great things
in Mexico, but it holds these engineers not good
enough to build a cockleshell in Australia.
DEAKIN, THE DECORATOR.
Mr. Deakin declared that the defence of Australia was
an Australian responsibility, which could not be effec-
tually discharged without benefiting the Empire as well
as the Commonwealth. On the subject of the Imperial
Council, the Prime Minister said: “ The more plastic the
organisation is the freer its powers of adaptation must
be. The oversea dominions have made, and are making,
great strides in the development of the immaterial re-
sources and the creation of sentiments of local as well as
of general patriotism. When the populations become
adequate to their territories they will be in every way
fitted, and, I believe, most willing, to undertake their
full share of the responsibility in the task of governing
the vast dominions which are growing and prospering to-
day in every quarter of the globe under the British flag.”
Australia: “ That's very pretty, Alfred, but
what the dickens does it all mean ? ”
Captain William Foskett, who sailed last
week for England, is an old N.S. W. civil servant.
He entered the Stamp Duties Office as a stamper
in 1865, when William Hemming, the man who
introduced the house sparrow to Australia, was
Commissioner (Hemming had been in business in
Sydney as a law stationer, and when the Stamp
Act was passed was appointed as an “expert”
Commissioner). When the Stamp Act was re-
pealed and the office disbanded, Foskett remained,
the Robinson Crusoe of the place, with, a salary
but no work. Then another Stamp Act was
passed, and he set to work again, and stamped
things for all he was worth for the best part of a
generation. For 30 years he was secretary of the
Rifle Association.
E. D. Riddell, the early N.S.W,
Colonial Treasurer whose grandson has
revived the old man’s memory in
Australia, was the direct cause
of Governor Richard Bourke
suddenly quitting N.S.W.
Bourke had made a
favorite of Roger
Therry, and
heaped offices
upon him.
The chairman-
ship of Quarter
Sessions, at
£4OO a year,
fell vacant,
and, although
themagistracy
had the right
to elect a
chairman,
Bourke nom-
inated Therry
for the post.
Riddell, Colonial II
Treasurer, offer-
ed himself in op-
position. Bourke,
on the ground that
Riddell had one
billet already,
erased his name from
the list of Legislative
Councillors. Riddell
appealed to the Secre-
tary of State, pointing
out that Therry had
several billets. The
Secretary of State ordered
Riddell’s name to be rein-
stated as a member of
the Council. Thereupon
Governor Bourke gathered
up his hair-brush and his
other collar and resigned.
All over two hungry billet-
hunters and a four-hundred-
pound job.
“A.M.” : You can’t beat
the Australian kid for uncon-
scious irreverence. The other day
I saw a small youth, about seven or less,
stop his Honor Justice Simpson] of the
Frozen Altitude, in his journey dow^Mkc-
quarie-street, and in a friendly tone inquire:
“Got any cigarette cards, mister ?” Expectantly
I listened to hear him get seven centuries for
contempt, but his Honor, too overcome forj?Svords,
merely shook his head and walked on.
Joseph Hector Garrick (not Carruthers),
who died in Auckland, the other day, aged 60,
was brother to the late Agent-General for Queens-
land. As a young barrister of 26, he went to Fiji
in ’73, and became Associate Supreme Court
Judge with Charles St. Julian, binder the whitey-
brown Government of Cakobku Rex. After the
British annexation of the islands, Garrick was
Attorney-General for a while, and subsequently
had a considerable Bar practice. In later years,
he was made Crown Prosecutor at Suva. Alto-
gether, he put in over 30 years of service in Fiji.
Shortly before London “universal pro-
vider” Whiteley was shot dead by a man who
claims to be his unrecognised son, he was one of
a number of contributors to Cassell’s Magazine
on “ Clues to Success in Business.” Some of the
upright Whiteley’s moral maxims have a prophetic
ring :
The real secret of commercial success is, I think, to be
found in two words : “Be honest.” However successful
deceit and trickery appear to be at first, it will be found
that in the long run they will cost you very dearly.
Observe the utmost discretion in all your business trans-
actions, and never take a risk that is likely to cause you
inconvenience.
The shining light took just one risk too many, and
the risk shot at him.
John Forrest, temporary political boss ot
the Commonwealth, is one of the few men who
have kept a full purse while holding high
office in Australia. John See held on to
his money, and Braddon had a pension to
rest on, but most other prominent politi-
cians were stalked by the ghost of those
two eternal ends that won’t meet. Some
were overtaken and killed by the uncanny
follower. Forrest not only has a pile of
his own, but there is a pension of £5OO a
year on account of his participation in
Westralian affairs before the days of Re-
sponsible Government, which comes due
when he ceases to collect a salary for poli-
tical services. What a gallery of poverty-
stricken citizens Australian Premiers look
when compared with the pig-dealing, calico-
importing, beer-and-whisky gangs of thrifty
commercial men for whom they make laws !
The Pitt-street Congregational tabernacle,
where'" “Mr. James” was married 50 years
ago, has given the importing habit best. After
Tremayne Dunstan and pastor Hennessy, it
wouldn’t trust itself to go further from home than
North Sydney. Curiously, at the moment when
it offered the job to N. J. Cocks, of that place, he
was considering an offer to go to North Adelaide.
After the usual “ prayerful consideration ” —so he
told the North Adelaide people—he decided on
the stand in the main street. The result seems to
be the same whether you give prayerful considera-
tion, or just the plain, grocery sort.
Walter Bennett, the new N.S. W.
“ Honorable,” has been a quarter of a cen-
tury in country journalism. He gave Aus-
tralia the straight tip in the Moruya Times,
the Dungog Chronicle, and other great organs
of public opinion long before he first squashed
the cushions of Parliament. Bennett was a
popular man with members from the day he
entered the House. He is a Maorilanderby birth,
and his family goes back to the first stealing of
the brown cannibal’s country.
Died, at Cloncurry (North Queensland),
Alexander Sykes Macgillivray, one of the com-
paratively early men of squatting on the West
Queensland downs country. He came to his
father's station, Eddington, half-way between.
Richmond and Cloncurry, in 1870, and went
storekeeping in Cloncurry in 1882. He was ruined
by his “whiteness.” All the wasters of the
country owed him money, and a fire in ’9l blew
him out. He started squatting again at Leila
Vale, had more ill-luck, and went to live in Bris-
bane. Coastal air didn’t agree with him, and he
had to return to the highlands. Finally, having
fought drought and ill-luck, and untrustable cus-
tomers, and fire and drought again, he started on
scratch in Cloncurry as an agent and auctioneer,
knowing that valvular heart trouble was ready to
kill him if he let himself go for a moment. After
15 years, it struck him the other day. He was
54 when he passed out—a quiet, plucky battler
against bad seasons and misplaced confidence in a
few others, a good Australian, and a real white
man. Peace be with him !
A FINE POINT.
"But I thought you said she’d got a husband
"So I did; but I didn't say whose husband she
had got.”
Judge F. E. Rogers (N.S.W.), who has
again had temporary possession of a Supreme
Court seat, has had varied judicial experience.
He has done acting business on every Bench. He
was even on the Bench of the Land Appeal Court,
when it was proposed to make the billet of Presi-
dent a judicial appointment. He had £2OOO a
year then, and left, it is understood, because he
was refused the pension and status of a Supreme
Court Judge. When he first accepted an Acting
District Court Judgeship, it was on the under-
standing that he would be offered an early
Supreme Court vacancy. In the end, however,
he settled down as D.C. Judge.
Premier Bent is going for a holiday and
rest, on his doctor’s advice —and this is his pro-
gramme, SO far: —
Keep an eye on the Imperial Conference, and chip in if
he gets a chance.
Talk to the London and Westminster Bank re inscrip-
tion of stock.
Argue about reduced passages for immigrants.
Inquire about electrifying the suburban railways.
Investigate Agent-General Taverner’s comings and
goings.
Give illustrated lectures around the island.
Attend the Education Conference.
Gather information re Commonwealth loans to cover
State debts.
Allegedly get married (though he has denied this).
Also, any little matter that needs attention or any
statement that requires contradiction will be
attended to in spare moments.
Mrs. Rebecca Martha Meares, of Stan-
more (N.S.W.), who died in January last, left an
estate, valued at £52,218, to her sons, Frederick
Devenish Meares and Ashley John Devenish
Meares. The “Devenish ” Meares were a large
family. William Devenish Meares was police
magistrate at Mudgee, and retired, at the age of
60, on pension in 1889. Then there was Alexander
Devenish Meares, sheriff’s officer at Grafton ;
F. Devenish Potter Meares, C.P.S. at Newtown;
John Devenish Meares, a superintendent of
police; and another "Devenish” was Council
Clerk at Leichhardt. Also there are sons who
are likewise “Devenish.” And half the time the
hurried postman pronounces it “Devilish,” just
as the slavey handed in Mr. Swiveller’s letter
with a wet hand, and said abruptly that it was
for Mr. Snivelling.
Retired from the Victorian Railways, E.
J. Goode, chief storekeeper, aged 61. Reaching
Melbourne in ’52, youngster Goode saw the rush
and riot of the gold days, and at 16 entered the
service of the St. Hilda and Brighton Railway
Co., as clerk and embryo accountant, was passed on
to the Hobson’s Bay Railway Co., and then taken
into the State service. Goode possesses a quaint
time-table of that first St. Hilda line —seven trains
a day during the week, and five on Sundays, and
the suburbanites had to keep good hours, for all
traffic ceased at 8 p.m. Later, a theatre train
was granted one nigh* a Week, at Is. 6d. per pas-
senger, in addition to the ordinary fare. Thus
did private enterprise “ develop the resources ”in
’62. A quaint feature of this Brighton line was
the viaduct on trestles, to span what was then the
Albert Park swamp, from near St. Hilda -Jo
Windsor. The soft ground let the trestles down ;
the viaduct grew as lop-sided as the company’s
policy, and the trains had to stop at St. Hilda.
The co. never thought of repairing its viaduct; it
just abandoned the rest of its line. That old line
ends at St. Hilda to this day, but before the year
is out Bent’s" electric trams will probably run
right through to Melbourne, and supersede the
steam service altogether.
“Dodgyknees" writes;—
My lantern ! Ho ! there have only been two honest
men in Melbourne—George Higinbotham and Joseph
Symes—when you come to real out-and-out Quixotic
honesty. To be honest as this world goes is to be one
man among ten thousand—such a one as Duffy the First.
He went to John Stuart Mill, in London, and said : “I
am a Freetrader. Victoria is committed to Protection,
Ought Ito sacrifice my career? ” Mill answered (accord-
ing to Duffy), “ No.” Symes seemed to ask : “ What is for
my pecuniary interest?" and he would go direct in the
teeth of that. You can say of Joe Symes as was
said of John Knoxlt “ Here lies one who never
feared the face of man.” What a fine, upstand-
ing, stalwart, straightforward man he was! He
looked you straight in the eyes, with none of the
furtive, sly, cunning, Job Trotter instinct that is the
bane of the clerical. He was individualist throughout,
and reckoned all the world had to do was to abolish the
priesthood. Essentially, he was a modern Englishman.
The Englander never becomes an Australian. It is notin
the blood. Symes even opposed the Boers fiercely. The
strongpart of hislearning was astronomy. This led him to
his blank views. An intense Methodist told me of Symes’
death, and added, “ There was never a man more highly
esteemed in our denomination.” The literary outlook of
Symes was strangely cramped. I asked him, “ How do
you account for the magnificence of the Bible? ” “ Oh,”
said he, “ you are only deluded i y the splendor of the
English translations. There is no beauty in the originals.”
Thus Samuel Briggs ;
Even swelled head has its uses. There recently re.
tired from an Australian bank an old and pompous mes-
senger, who carried with him the goodwill of every clerk
in the institution. Theaneientretaineraped the haughty
air and heavenly deportment of the general manager.
He didn’t dare to wear a frock-coat, but he wore a black
silk dust-coat reaching almost to his knees, which came
mighty near it. Clad in this garment and carrying a
document in his hand, he walked about the bank at the
buiiest times of the day glaring majestically through his
glasses at awe-stricken strangers, and nodding with grave
patronage to those he knew ; and if someone mistook
him for a high official, his happiness was complete. But
what endeared him to the clerks was this : When a cleik
had offended some sour and important client of the insti-
tution, and the said client hied him away to report the
offender to the general manager, word was hurriedly
passed around, and as the wrathful depositor approachtd
the manager’s room, a tall, portly form, with much paper
in its hand, would emerge, looking as if it owned the
globe. Nine times out of ten the client complained bit-
terly to this figure, and the messenger’s assurance that the
offending clerk would be immediately boiled over a dead
fire sent many a man away happy.
“ Goolwa ” writes re Frederick Ogle, who
was a mighty spieler before the Lord, and who
recently, at the age of 61, was “ sent up ” for five
years in Melbourne :
I knew him once. It was some two years ago, and I
was boarding in a fashionable seaside suburb. One of
our boarders was a middle-aged widow, who was pos-
sessed of property. I heard, in profound secrecy, that
the lady was to be married shortly to an earl. The
landlady told me with great pride that his earlship
would call to tea to-morrow evening. I meekly inquired if
it were necessary to dress for dinner, because, if so, I’d
take my meal in the kitchen, as I’d lent my dress suit.
Great was the preparation (we had never had such a feed
before), and when our guest was announced you could
have heard a fly swimming in the soup. It was Ogle. He
entered dramatically, and it only required an orchestral
burst (worked up from pianissimo) to make the thing
complete. And he looked an earl. Dutton, who sat
next Frederick, called him “Sir,” which seemed to suit
down to the ground. The blue-blooded gentleman talked
a good deal of his Irish property, of a prospective trip
“ home,” and of placing his youngest son at Eton, ft
seemed he was a widower. We all retired quietly after tea,
and left him with his lady love. Ogle often called, and the
novelty of dining with earls wore off. Arrangements were
made for the wedding, the trousseau and matrimonial
gear got in order, bridesmaids selected, and even the
spirit-lamp, for use on the voyage home, was not over-
looked. Then delays started. Each night Ogle arrived
agitated. Cables were pouring in. Great legal compli-
cations had attacked the estates. Postponement fol-
lowed postponement. Still he went strong with the
widow, until Black and myself reckoned him and his
donah a damn nuisance. We couldn’t get in the dining-
room of an evening (where they were performing like a
pair of kittens), and, as it was winter, we sadly needed
the comfort of a fire. The landlady couldn’t think of
thwarting the Earl. Two of us left. I heard that Ogle
did the same shortly afterwards. It was only recently I
found out who he was. No doubt a clever spieler, but
I’m inclined to think that widow was cleverer. As far as
I could find out, he didn’t get from her even enough to
buy another pair of those beautiful pants he wore.
MILITARY ITEM.
After their camp, at Easter, the Light Horse in N.S.W.
will hold a three days’ ma[?], weather permitting. -Now
Item
JUNIOR LIEUTENANT : " Bai Jove , Im glad its
off, George, my corns are beginning to pain
like the deuce.”
There is a tremendous amount of “act-
ing” about Australian politics and public service
just now. There is an acting Prime Minister,
acting Minister of External Affairs, acting Minis-
ter of Customs, acting P.M.G. ; and in Victoria
an acting Governor, acting Premier, acting
Treasurer, acting Minister of Railways, acting
Under-Treasurer, acting Chief Railways Com-
missioner. Papua has an acting Governor; and
in N.S. Wales the Public Service Board is mostly
acting, and the heads of the Treasury and the
Lands Department are acting, and the Sydney
Criminal sittings have been taken by an acting
Supreme Court Judge, and the Full Court has
been partly acting Judge. The “acting” doesn t
always mean the same thing, but a lot of times it
means that Australia is paying two lots of salaries.
THE BATTLE OF BRUNSWICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Poor Jud
(Poor judge)
Chewed cud —
Threw sludge;
Hard luck—
None stuck.
Poor Jud !
Name’s mud.
VIC.
O’FIPP.


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution!
30,000 Customers Served Daily at the New
s 5
as
• i
EH
3 a
■*-3 E
rtss
mmm
m ii
Wm
s®
i. :::
ass
Wk
a
mm
m
mm
inuini
it
® BH
m
WIE9
3?
SI
-Slpii*-
■*
■
i
rans
Wrlr.
hi
..r :.
Iff
i
g®
'ilp
irfi
m
X
X
ill
rf? ;; » : j
ERSAL PROVIDERS. SYDNEY N. S.W
ON THE LAND.
It may be ORCHARD, it may be FARM ; it may be SELECTION ; it may
be IMPROVEMENT LEASE; or it may be some OTHER WAY. But
WHATEVER and WHEREVER it is, you will surely benefit by
At Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
BUYING
EVERYTHING
PLOUGHS, HARROWS, PLANTERS,
CULTIVATORS, CORNSHELLERS,
etc.
THE MORGAN
SPADING HARROW.
ç
Forged Steel Beam, Chilled or Steel Moldboard, Jointer or Coulter, Scotch
Clevis. Handles raise and lower. Wheel adjusts to either side of beam..
The Morgan Spading Harrow. The best Land Cultivator and Seeding Machine
in the market. __ _ _
A.—3ft. 1 horse, fitted with 16in. Spades, £5 12s 6d.
A.—4ft. 1 horse, fitted with 16in. Spades, £6 ss.
A.—sft. 2 light horses, fitted with 16in. Spades, 7» oef.
A.—6ft. 2 standard horses, fitted with 16in Spades, £6l Os.
o.—6ft. 2 heavy horses, fitted with 18in. Spades, £7 1 os.
O.—7ft. 2or 3 horses, fitted with 18in. Spades, £8 ss.
C.—Bft. 3 heavy horses, fitted with 18in. Spades, £8 70S. cleaners
All these Harrows are fitted with swingle-trees, neck yokes where required, cleaners
and transport wheels, and, on the larger sizes, an offset to work three horses.
Sets of Discs for Morgan Spaaing Harrows to fit to sft. and Gft.A, so m
to immediately convert them into Disc Harrows oft., 52 s , •» )
tion the purchaser has Two Harrows in One.
Pair of Seeder Boxes, to attach to 6ft. Harrow, £8 2s 6cf.
Reverse irons, 8s 6d per set. Boxes, 2s 6d. Sandbands, ss.
The Star Billings Corn Planter and Fertiliser, 105 s.
The Moline Corn Planter, 755.
The Moline Corn Planter and Fertiliser, 955.
Colonial All Iron Zig-Zag Harrows, 1 wing, 32s 6d.
Ditto., ditto., ditto 2 wings with bar, 655.
Cast Iron and Wrought Steel Shares : kept in stock for Ritchie s, Paul s,
Clyde, and Hornsby Ploughs.
The Wiard Steel
Beam Plough.
ć
xc
These Ploughs are in the genuine Scotch style, and of the most approved form and con-
struction. They have the long wedge-like entrance common to all genuine Scotch ploughs, but
with this are combined rare turning qualities, which give the best results with lightest draft
and greatest ease of holding.
By an ingenious but simple device attached to One-Horse Ploughs, Nos. 74 and i 5, they
can be used with the horse walking in the furrow, a great convenience for garden and vine-
yard work.
Wiard’s Wood Beam Pony Plough, 20s, no wheel or coulter ; ditto ditto, with wheel, No. 62,
22s 6d, no coulter.
Wiard's Steel Beam Horse Plough, No. 74 or 75, with beam bent to allow horse to work in the
furrow, 47s 6d.
Wiard’s Steel Beam one-horse Plough, No. 73, with straight beam, 50s.
Wiard’s Steel Beam two-horse Plough, No. 72, 665.
Wiard’s Steel Beam three-horse Plough, No. 90, 72s 6d.
Wiard’s Wood Beam one-horse Hillside or Swivel Plough, No. 21, 425.
Wiard’s Steel Beam two-horse Hillside or Swivel Plough, No. 120, 758.
Colonial, all iron, Pony Plough, “Little Beauty,” 50s.
Colonial, all iron, One-Horse Plough, 70s.
All the above are provided with one extra share, included in price. They are also provided with
wheel and coulter.
Cast Iron Shares —For No. 62, 9d; Nos. 73, 74, and 75, Is 2d each.
For No. 72, Is 7d each ; No. 90, 1s 7d each.
Wrought Steel Shares —For Nos. 74 and 77, 5s 6d each; for Nos. 72 and 90, 7s each.
Mathews’ New Universal High Arch Expansion Wheel Hoe Cultivator Rake and
Plough, tor handwork. The arch is made of wrought steel, 34s 6d.
Circular Coulters, with revolving stem, 12in. 14s, 14in 16s.
The Emperor, 24-tooth Horse Hay Rake, £5.
A.B.C. Corn Shelter, 345.
A.B.C. Corn Shelter, with fan, 38s.
The Kelly Duplex Grinding Mill, £ll 10s. This mill will grind stems and cobs into either a coarse
or fine meal at will.
The Ectair I fermorel Knapsack Spray, 40s.
The Plombe (that is leaded) I fermorel Spray, to work with sulphuric and other acids, 435.
The Petrole Vcrmorel Knapsack Spray Pump, used for emulsionising kerosene, 755.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS &
Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY
N.S.W


V^ v 0 *>.
* \
CHARLES
HEIPSIECK’S
CHAMPAGNE.
VINTAGE 1900.
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC .
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES- IS2O, 1848, 18GB, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
TRADEMARK
*§ dress fftßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARD
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 26, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Lady Northcote’s at home on Thursday was
pervaded by the suburban mayoress, the execu-
tive committee of the Exhibition of Women’s
Work, and the weaker vessels of the press. It
was prompt business, and then tea. Her Federal
Ex. and JVliss llawson made a tour of the ball-
room, where all the useful persons were assembled
and standing against the wall. She shook hands
with the human dado, and then it moved for-
ward and sat at a long, long table, off which it
carefully kept its elbows. Miss Rawson, as vice-
president, read an interesting account of the
character of the projected Great Work. When
the closing words, “represent our State and win
laurels to its credit,” were reached, LadyNorthcote
arose, and for forty minutes the atmosphere had a
flavor of the “ Almanach de Gotha.” The names of
Serene Highnesses, Royal Highnesses of England,
and Tremendous Highnesses of Austria and
Greece were signed to the letters her Excellency
read, and if only the Akhoond of Swat and their
High Mightinesses the States-General of Holland
had been represented all would have been com-
plete. (Why were these High Mightinesses
allowed to die out ?) There was rather more than
a peck of crowned or coronetted notepaper. Then
the reading lapsed to letters of mere peeresses
and ambassadresses. Probably at the tail-end of
things was a note from Mary Smith, but there
wasn’t time to get down to Miss Smith’s letter.
Lady Chelmsford, Lady Edeline (pronounce it
’’edlin, two syllables, or you’ll have to go in by
t e tradesmen’s entrance) Strickland, Miss du
< me, Mrs. Harley, Mrs. Mayoress Hughes, and
1 *B. Allan Taylor were in the seats of the favored
few. Mrs. Ethel Turner Curlewis, who was pre-
sent, has the task of making a collection of the
works of Australasian women writers of prose
and verse for the Exhibition.
Lady Northcote, who is an exemplar of smiling
diplomacy, gave a cunning little curl to the tail of
her brief speech when she intimated that although
the Exhibition was one of women’s work the
assistance of men was necessary to carry it to a
successful conclusion. There was an apologetic
facet to her smile—a sort of after-all-the-man-
thing-has-liis-uses suggestion. This was, no
doubt, an indirect reply to the newspaper protest of
certain ladies that men should not run a Women’s
Work Show. The opinion of most women is that
if there was a woman secretary the other women
would bully her. If the whole executive were
women, there would be too much room for what
“Epacris,” in the D.T., calls “that detested
specimen of her sex, the * society pusher,’ or worse
still, * the organising woman.’ ”
The Feast of Lanterns was held at the Royal
Yacht Squadron’s Club House-by-the-sea last
Friday. A thousand lights of rose and orange, a
half-grown moon, a baby breeze, and a few picture
hats and evening gowns were divided amongst the
300 or 400 persons present. Feminine Sydney
huddles on its theatre coat and says, “ How dread-
fully cold ! ” if it chances to be abroad after 8 p.m.,
and if the temperature is below 65. Seventy
years ago, when the late Mr. Milson built him a
house (now the Club House), and planted him a
tree and a garden, and later than that, there were
blacks on the North Shore. That is one of the
crumbsof small talk that the Royal yachtsmen drop
into the ear of the visitor to their moonlight f&te.
The steeply sloping lawns merge into the sea and
the trees on the marge stand for ever with their
feet in the salt water. At the back of the Club
House a wealth of towering tree and interlaced
leaf looks like a tent of silk- A great place to
talk of Me and You. And the members have a
standing joke—now a bit shaky from long stand-
ing. . The stranger is told she can have the anchor
(or win a liberal wager if she can lift it) that seems
to be lying on the lower trunk of a mammoth
Moreton Bay fig. Said anchor was thrown on to
the tree when the latter was a young thing, but as
the tree grew it took in the anchor, and one prong
is now buried in its heart. Some day a visitor will
borrow the Strong Woman from a circus, and bring
her along disguised as his youngest daughter, and
she will tear out that anchor and spoil the jest.
The usual crowd of members and their friends
were present. In the absences of King Edward,
the president, and of Commodore Fairfax, the
vice-president, Mr. Reeks said the civil word in
the scented darkness of the jetty. The Fairest
Circumstance present was a visitor girl from
England—an eighteen-year-old youngster, in a
white silk frock, and big, pink velvet hat. Such a
perfect study in blue (eyes) and gold (hair) and
scarlet (lips) and faint-rose (face), and as mem-
bers of the Squadron caught sight of her under
the blaze of the electrics, they paid homage with
a note of exclamation. Her maternal progenitor
would have taken the eye if the daughter had
not been there. No mistake, but the dear old
Bull country is kind to its women’s complexions.
Mrs. Hemingway—the mother of the startlingly
Fair One—looked picturesque enough in a black
satin Romney hat and embroidered white silk
shawl, and other uncommon etceteras.
One of our richest squatters is in Sydney,
waiting for the carnival that follows this Ashen
Time. But he got tired of waiting, and the other
day said he was going to start his Easter
manoeuvres at once. So he engaged 11 hansoms
that were on the stand opposite his hotel, got
into one himself—he couldn’t occupy all-, and
solemnly drove about the city. Every row and
then he put his sheep’s head out to see „hat the
other ten vehicles were following. He paid them
all well. But isn’t he a humorist ? Now, an old
Bulletin contributor I wot of had more method
in his madness. He was a terrible Radical when
sober, but when the wine that was red got into
his veins it turned his blood blue, offensively blue.
He wouldn’t travel in the same cab with his own
coat and stick; so they, followed him about in
another hansom.
From an account of a marriage at a N.S.W.
country town : “Mr. Blank, as groomsman, sup-
ported the bridegroom, who beamed exultingly.”
Don’t you conjure up a picture of a man leaning
upon his friend at an angle of sixty-five degrees
and smiling fatuously ?
Miss Fanny Bauer, the Sydney song-bird, has
been warbling at Dublin Castle, and Miss Nora
Long has been engaged for Chappel’s concerts.
So Australia isn’t quite dead yet.
A French paper has discovered that King
Edward has, of all living monarchs, the largest
choice of headgear.
Among them is the round grey hat, known in Paris as
a “ melon,” and in London as a “ bowler.” This is a
style of which the King is particularly fond. He wears
it encircled with a thin black riband, and always travels
in it.
Then there is the Tyrolean, which may be of
brown velvet or greenish felt, and has a grouse or
partridge feather stuck in the band. Two kinds
of Scotch cap with a silver medal on one side are
used by the king, and his silk hats are white in
summer and black in winter. He has soft hats of
many shapes, and 30 varieties of cap. And yet
he isn’t a, hydra.
His Excellency Northcote’s progress through
the widely-smiling regions of Monaro and Mait-
land is tapering to a finish, and will end this week
at his quarters (with the sentry at the gate) over-
looking Farm Cove. The Governor of Tasmania,
Mr. Share, and a brace of Ministers formed the
vice-regal comet’s useful, if not glittering, tail.
He really travelled fast and far, and in every
township he was told, in speeches, of the resources
of the district; he was anthemed by hundreds
of school children, and always, for fear his spirits
would droop, he was shown over the local hospital.
The crowded day closed ever with a banquet, and
the weary representative of the King whohas more
hats than any living monarch laid his head, stuffed
with maize, sheep and wool statistics, on his rail-
way carriage pillow, and railed towards more
anthem and hospital and banquet and boundless
local resources.
“The Marble Dinner” is the latest freak
of the smart hostess in dear old England.
The guest's hair and face must be made to
look as much like marble as possible. Pow-
dered hair and “ pearl cream ” give the
requisite ghostly, classic effect. A Greek
or Roman head on a body dressed in swallow-
tails and black tubular things like crape drain-
pipes, or robed in an empire frock, is suggestive of
the dead and the quick mixed, the same person
being partly quick, and the rest dead. It only
requires that each person shall bring along half a
tombstone to make the half-and-half arrangement
complete. Now that society has got to the point
of thus frankly painting itself for dinner, the
aboriginal Briton meal, at which all the guests
will be stained blue, can’t be far off. Various
Venuses, who are showing opulent proportions in
divers music halls, have probably suggested the
idea of the Whitewashed Guest.
From London, Feb. 15 :
Tuesday’s ceremony of the opening of Parliament was-
a gorgeous affair. Those lucky enough to get admis-
sion to the Royal Gallery saw the show best. The Prince
and Princess of Wales entered very quietly. One caught
a glimpse of the latter—tall, very slim—gliding along in
wonderful robe of silvery tissue that reflected every
color of the rainbow. When the procession entered the
Gallery, every eye was turned on the Queen. She is
wonderfully youthful-looking, still beautiful, eyes of very
pale blue, with a tired expression ; her hair is between
light brown and auburn, complexion pale. The Royal
crimson mantle was worn over the glittering black
gown, a wealth of diamonds covered the corsage, a very
deep cafi au lait veil of priceless lace was worn draped
under the crown. A previous flutterer through the Gal-
lery was Lady Beauchamp, who was escorted by her hus-
band—stouter than of yore, but most important. Her
diamonds and emeralds were magnificent; her veil was
of silvered tulle, matching her Empire robe of silver
tissue.
We have been farewelling Eva Myloft, who sails
America-wards to-morrow, for musical engagements.
Later, Canada is her destination ; this time, for a matri-
monial engagement. The Austral Club farewelled one of
its favorite singers by a tea and presentation autograph
book, containing an address and the signatures of her
club friends. Lady Cockburn and Miss Baxter were the-
principal movers in this farewell.
Our sometime visitor, Miss Peggy Pryde, has
been prosecuting someone for stealing a silver-
foxskin rug from her motor-car. That kind of
rug and that sort of vehicle bespeak prosperity.
A Charters Towers pair, alliteratively and
respectively named Mills and Millican, were mar-
ried, with many rose-point frills, in the drawing-
room of the Australia Hotel, on Thursday. There
was a huge bunch of presents from Queensland,
and that means valuable ones. When the North
starts out to give presents, it does so lavishly.
Miss Pole-Chandos, a near connection of the
Earl of Harrington (whoever he may be), has been
in Sydney for a few days, and during the festive
week will be a guest of the Northcotes. Pole-
Chandos has a great sound. Maybe the P.Cs.
were Crusaders or Inspectors of the Royal Har-
ness-room. And maybe they pronounce them-
selves Pool-Shandy.
Florence Young and “the largest emerald in
Australia ” blazed in the manager’s box at “Robin
Hood” on Friday. The star was all in emeraldl
green, either in honor of the saint who threw
pythons out of Ireland, or to do honor to Sher-
wood Forest and Knight’s verdant attire.
The prettiest little coffee-bean of a girl blew
over from Melbourne and into the Australia to-
lunch on Saturday. She was Charlene, the new
Xylophon and Society Sketch artist for the
Tivoli. Has a 16-inch waist, but its quite in pro-
portion to the rest of her slender symmetrical
proportions. A coffee-brown Charlotte Corday
hat, same shade of a tailor-made coat and skirt,
brown hair and brown eyes. And she’ll probably
have Sydney on nice, brown toast.
Talking about widows. A Sydney personage
who recently married one has painted his house
Mack. This is a fact. And wayfarers on his
road look up at the building, mistake it for a
morgue, and sprint on their way.
A correspondent from a country centre : “ Out-
back school kiddies have their troubles. Recently,,
the needlework of a sewing class was entered for 1
competition by the teacher. To the joy of the'
school, the work of little Polly Jones took first-
prize. Garment was a grown-up’s night-
gown. The Show followed soon, and Mrs. Teacher
suggested that Polly should send her achieve-
ment to compete. Polly was delighted. But
next day a miserable and tearful little Polly
came along. ‘ What is the matter ? ’ asked 1
the teacher. ‘ls anyone at home ill, or been
bitten by a snake, or anything?’ ‘No, mum,’
answered the girl between her sobs, ‘ it’s worse’
nor that. Mother was that proud of the night-
gownd that she showed it to everybody, with its*
blue ticket and ribbons, and everyone said how
nice it was—too good to wear. And grand-
mother heard them, and said “Exackerly. It’s
just fine enough to be buried in,” and that she
would have the blue ribbon taken orf, and black
put on instead, and it’d do lovely fer a shroud.
She never even arsked fer it—she jest took it, and
mother couldn’t say nothink, because grand-
mother’s dad’s mother, and I can’t get it back
from her ’cause she’s got it folded up in silv’ry tea-
paper and put away fer the layin’-out—it and ten
pounds fer her berryin’.’ ”
Employers of female domestic ltybor in Y elling-
ton (M.L-) are being circularised by the Domestic
Workers’ Industrial Union, and Mary Ann as-
sumes a haughty Ermyntrude air as she ukases ;
Eight classes of workers shall be recognised— i.e.,
housekeepers, lady helps, generals, housemaids, nurse-
maids, kitebenmaids, laundrymaids and cooks.
The week’s work shall consist of 68 hours, to be divided
as follows: . . ..
Work to commence on every morning, except on holi-
days mentioned in clause 3, at 6.30 a.m., and cease on
Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays at 7.30 p.m.,
with three intervals of half-an hour each for meals, and
one hour’s interval in the afternoon of each day.
On Thursdays work shall cease at 2 p.m., with two
intervals of half-an-hour each for meals.
On Sundays work shall cease at 2 p.m., with two inter-
vals of half-an-hour each for meals, but domestics shall,
if required, prepare tea between the hours of 5.30 p.m.
and 6.30 p.m. on alternate Sundays.
On Wednesdays work shall cease at 10 p.m., with three
intervals of half-an-hour each for meals, and one hour
interval in the afternoon.
On Sundays two hours shall be allowed to attend church
in the morning.
Holidays.—Christmas Day, Boxing Day, New Year’s
Day, King’s Birthday, Prince of Wales’ Birthday 7, Anni-
versary Day, Easter Monday, Labor Day, and all statutory
holidays shall be deemed to be holidays, and work done
on those days shall be paid for at the rate of one shilling
(Is.) per hour.
Domestics shall be in every evening at 10 p.m., except
on Thursday evenings, and on that night 12 p.m.
Accompanying the “Claims of the Domestic
Workers’ Union ” is an agreement for the Missus
to sign. “By doing so she will obviate the un-
pleasantness of having to appear personally, or by
agent, before the Conciliation Board or Arbitra-
tion Court.” There’s a really “ fresh ” time ahead
of Mary Merely Maori Ann and her old bag o’
chips. The sixty-eight hours a week claim seems
reasonable enough, but it’s surely impossible to
dictate, in an arbitrary fashion, how those hours
are to be divided in every household. Any fixed
rule would be unworkable without annoyance and
inconvenience to each. Servants with kind, con-
siderate employers will probably not join the
union. But if it does get all it wants, M.L.
Missuses will be forced into the simple life, even
to dwelling in tents, like Jacob.
“ This ghastly thin-faced time ” of Lent, as
some poet has it (only he didn’t mean any time
Lenten), turned quite rosy and fat on Saturday
afternoon when the Waldron-King and Keegan-
King weddings were celebrated. What novelty
there was in the dressing was on the part of the
bridesmaids. They wore half-wreaths of mauve
jessamine instead of the customary hats. The
wreaths were flat on the head, finished with
rosettes of pastel blue and mauve ribbon,
from which flowed long spindrifty veils. That
was for one of the brides’ following. The other
was attended by pink bridesmaids. Mrs. Waldron,
who is the queenlier of the King sisters, was a
picturesque departer-for-the-honeymoon in an
amethyst cripe-de-chine gown and a “Louise”
hat of shaded amethyst massed with purple
grapes and knobs of cerise velvet. There was a
host of guests, and among them the dressing of
Mrs. J. C. Williamson and Miss Ola Jane
Humphrey took the comet. First wore a
sheath-like and long-tailed gown of ivory
lace (Irish point) over a peach silk, and had
a wine-colored head-gear. Brilliant Ola Jane,
who is responsible as far as introductions go for
the double wedding, was in a crazily intricate
frock of sky-blue silk and white lace, and on one
ear and one-half of her nutty coiffure she posed a
blue velvet sailor hat with a blue ostrich
in it. Pink coral and big pear pearls (a lot of
them) encircled her neck. She was presented
with them the night before, but declined to state
the name of the giver. So there’s a lot of guess-
ing going on. Sydney has not much else to do this
week but guess things.
A letter from Christchurch (M.L.): —
Our Exhibition is fast drawing to a close. On the 14th
the one-and-a-half-inillionth person passed through the
turnstile. Again it was a girl. She, like the millionth
■girl, gets a watch for her trouble in being there at the
right time. The Ex. is now adorned with a variety of
side-shows. Last week it was a baby display, with over
350 more or less hot and squalling infants,' and about
25,000 spectators. This u 7 eek the management has adver-
tised a “Beauty Show ” —best lady’s face, neck, shoulders
and arms, ankle and so forth. Ladies can wear masks if
wished, and doubtless many will wish. Of course there
is the usual newspaper bark by the W.C.T.U. and other
skinny-necked females about the propriety of the Beauty
Exhibition. The W.C.T.U. has a firm conviction that no
woman should be seen except the woman who isn’t worth
seeing, and it has doubts as to whether she should be
visible.
Mrs. Lachlan Beaton and some of her house-
hold have gone to Bowral for a month or so.
Small boy Beaton has a cough in the key of B
minor, and the change from sea to hill air is
compulsory in his case.
Sydney is losing for a while the man who is a
director of more companies perhaps than anyone
else hereabouts. F. T. Humphery, with his wife
and daughter, is leaving on a trip to China and
Japan by Wednesday’s liner. His place on the
Australia Hotel directorate will be taken by Mr.
Smith, of Norton and Smith.
My Brisbane correspondent writes;—
Senator Chataway, his better half (I speak advisedly)
and family passed through this week en route for the
South. Mrs. Chataway belonged to every organisation
in Mackay, and received a few pretty jewels at the hands
of her fellow organisers ere she drifted down the muddy
Pioneer.
The Mayoress of Brisbane held her first at home last
Thursday. As she lives somewhere in the wilds of
Mayne Junction, and no cabs were provided to convey the
multitude to and from “Hillside,” the said multitude
mostly stayed away. Those who did struggle out were
well fed, and their thirst was carefully attended to.
The second day of the Patrick’s meet at Ascot, on
Monday, was chiefly notable for the greenness of the
millinery, the lawn, and the punters, who mostly
returned to town with footmarks on their hats (they
had jumped on » them). In the frocking line,
Mrs. Cecil Palmer, Mrs. H. Cohen, the smart
little proprietor of a south-side private hospital, a
draper’s wife from Rockhampton, and a pretty-girl who
assists a Queen-street dentist to haul the public tooth,
were the exceptions. A lot of regular goers are yet at
the seaside, and the rest Were dressed any old way.*
Hilda, the eldest chick.of theCadell family (Deepwater,
N.S.W.), was married, on Wednesday last, to Claude A.
Hindmarsh, manager of the Bank of North Queensland
at Tenterfield (N.S.W.). The knot was tied at St. John’s
Church, Deepwater, by the Rev. G. D. Frewin. The
bridal gown was a dainty confection of Liberty satin and
Limerick lace, and the red-headed little bride looked
very chic under her lace veil.
r,f i f° S M -° £ TovvilHville > also assumed the responsibility
! H f. marned ex-nurse Florrie Scott,
a little brunette who, discarding the regulation veil and
bouquet, was wedded in a pretty frock of white crepe-de-
chme and a white-plumed hat. 1
Yours Affectionately, ARESEHI.
Maoriland’s discarded legislator, Wood
Green, who put up for Collingwood at the recent
Victorian elections, went to the trouble of getting
his license-to-marry cancelled—parsons being in-
capable of sitting in the Bent-country Parliament;
and then was badly defeated by Wilkins. Now
he hasn’t even the scarce and casual marriage-fee
to depend on. It’s a thankless world !
One more N.S.W. concern, the Illawarra
Steamship Co., is beginning to have its doubts
about the beauties of the Foreign-trade gospel of
cheapness. To save a few pounds, it accepted a
foreign tender as against an Australian offer for
building the Moruya. The boat was handed over
in Great Britain, and the captain set out supplied
with a general chart of the world—very service-
able for navigation round the Isle of Dogs, but
published too far away, apparently, to keep track
of changes of lights on the Australian coast. So
the Moruya piled itself up on a Victorian beach,
and now it will cost, one way and another, over
£3OOO before it is patched up and as good as new,
and the co.’s favorite captain, who had the job of
bringing it out, is in hospital, worse damaged
than even the boat. And all because the co.
wouldn’t pay the extra few pounds to have the
ship built in the country that supplied the money.
The fact that rats are swarming just at
present at Circular Quay, Sydney, and that several
plague-stricken rats have been found in that
locality, woke the papers up to say several nasty
things about the Sydney Harbor Trust. And
when two plague-infected animals were found in
the Trust’s own office, the Trust deemed the
situation grave enough for an official explanation.
The explanation explained everything but the
presence of those two rats.
A man was recently brought before the
Sydney Arbitration Court for a breach of the
tailors’ award, and was fined ss. for accepting
work for a less wage than that fixed by the Court.
J. P. Wright, who is the employers’ representa-
tive on the Arbitration Court, arose in indignation
at what he called the scandalous behavior of the
Cutters’ Union in instituting the prosecution,
and dramatically forked out 55., and paid the
fine on the spot. Wright did not ask how the
Cutters’ Union could manage to keep up its end
against the sweating employer if its members
were allowed to cut the wages-rate with impunity;
and, in the case of the man under notice, it was
proved that he is now being paid the union rate of
wages, so that his lapse was not due to i ncompetence
on his part. The Bulletin has often heard, and
it dares Mr. J. P. Wright, as a large employer,
to say he has not also heard, of a union of em-
ployers, who have mutually agreed upon the sell-
ing price of an article. And, should any member
of the union be detected under-selling the rest, he
wouldn’t get off with a fine of 55., nor would an
arbitrator be found to pay his fine with a melo-
dramatic speech.
BEAUTY CHATS, by Helena Rubinstein. Tiif,
Structure op Your Skin. —You know, of course, that
your skin is pitted with myriads of little pores. But do
you know that the function of these pores is both to
breathe in pure air and to be the passage way for the
escape of waste products of the body ? If the pores are
clogged the skin is stifled. To ensure their activity they
must be cleansed and all impurities expelled. If not, a
“ bad complexion ” is certain, with a crop of wrinkles
and crowsfeet as its attendant. Now, Valaze first cleanses
the skin of all impurities, and then it sinks hungrily into
the pores and is absorbed by the skin cells, and gives
them nourishment. You’ll sometimes feel a tingling
sensation of the skin when you first use Valaze—this is
when your skin has been very neglected and the cells are
starved. And how quickly Valaze does beautify the com-
plexion—how it braces up the tired skin, making it as
clear and radiant as a child’s—soft and caressing as vel-
vet, smooth as satin. Your chemist sells Valaze in 3s. 6d.
and 6s. jars. Get a jar and see how it will improve your
skin. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure cures the
most obstinate cases ; approved by medical authorities.
2s. 6d., posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, beautifully
cleansing and purifying, made from almonds and rare
herbs, 2s. cake, postage 2d. Rusmo llair-killer, for the
home removal of superfluous hair ; won’t harm the most
delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe, 55., postage
3d. If your chemist tries to press another Skin Food on
to you, write direct to me for Valaze, adding (id. postage
extra. The Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney 7, or 274 Oollins-street, Melbourne.*
Dymock’s Circulating Library : —Dozens of
new books arrive per every English and American mail.
Many are worthy of a place on the shelves of any well-
selected library, the majority are written and designed
to while away a few hours of leisure. Every book by any
author of note is available to subscribers of the above
library. All copies are clean and fresh, and any book, no
matter how expensive or how keen the demand, may be
had for the asking. The country subscription, 8 volumes
at a time, ranges from £1 11s. 6d. for 6 months, and
£2 12s. 6d. for 12 months; the city and suburban rates
from £1 Is. and £2 2s. per annum, shorter periods or
larger parcels at proportionate rates. The most popular
books at the moment are : R. W. Chamber’s “ Fighting
Chance,” which reveals life in New York as seen in the
Thaw trial; Spearman’s “Whispering Smith,” and Parish’s
“Bob Hampton Placer.” Do not leave town without
joining Dymock’s Circulating Library, 428 George Street,
Sydney.*
It is better to avoid a cold than to contract one that
will perhaps stay with you through the coming winter—
if it does not do worse. Remember that colds are
dangerous—you can never tell what they’ll lead to. If
you feel one coming on, a few doses of Black Currant
Balsam will break it up. It will cure a deep-seated cold
quicker than any other remedy. For Bronchitis and
Influenza there is no surer remedy. Obtainable every-
where. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Prepared only at
Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*


MX E
Are You Particular
ABOUT
BUTTER ?
Maybe you are particular about butter.
You like it “just so”—mild and just
right—you can’t explain what it
is, but you know it just as soon as
you’ve tasted it.
Then you would appreciate Q.M.E.
It has a “ different ” flavor.
It is the highest grade butter made in
Australia —made to beat all other
butters in quality and flavor.
And it Does !
IN lib. TINS and 561 b. BOXES.
Ask Your Grocer for Q.M.E. Butter.
J
Every Vehicle
To b© Up-to-date
Should bo Fitted with
DUNLOP-
KELLY
RubberTyres
They Pay lor themselves
in Twelve Months.
No Vibration. No Repairs,
and double the pleasure of
Driving. TYRES fitted
from £5 and upwards. tfESES*
TP
<e>
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
WE STOCK and Manufacture tor order
CONVEYOR and VANNER BELTS,,
In Any Length or Size, same as
now used with success by many
of the Leading Australian Mines,
AIR DRILL HOSE, . „ SUCTION
and DELIVERY HOSE, . .VALVES,
PACKINGS and Every Description,
of Rubber Goods required far
Mining. Quality of Material:
ana Workmanship—THE. BEST.
Tenders and Samples Submitted:
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and N.Z~
03
£3
Supporters
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict of Three Continents.
çx
cx
cx
cx
cx
<
&
COI^IETJ
r
WORLDJ
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 25, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Melbourne people of all sorts are rather glad to
have the Talbots out of the way in order to have
the Maddens on the vice-regal job again. John
Madden is probably as satisfactory a vice-royalty
as the royal ghost need be, and his family, fixings
and surroundings generally fill the gubernatorial
bill according to the popular estimation of the
manner in which the document should be filled.
John’s ruddy, shining, wide-smiling delight in the
position.is a source of vast satisfaction to the
mass, since it implies that he is grateful
for the honors and glories conferred and the privi-
lege of shaking things up in a yellow-wheeled
equipage, with a rattling warrior cantering ahead
to prepare the way and excite interest. Imported
Governors, on the other hand, do not smile far
and wide, and look rubicund and glad ; they look
rather bored as a rule, and go to functions like
victims to the sacrifice. This makes the onlookers
tired. The happiness with which the Maddens,
dad and family, attend a theatre vice-regally, or
open a suburban hall or a sardine tin as represen-
tatives of the King, is a refreshing contrast. Cer-
tainly Victorians would rather have John Madden
a vice-regal fixture than any importation for years
past, but they share Australia’s lamentable habit
of preferring the thing they don’t want if it’s
“sent out.”
The “Old Folks” had their annual Tea on
Wednesday. There is no doubt about the joy of
that annual Tea, when over 1000 ancients collect
in the Exhibition Building, and fill themselves
with cheap refreshment. Big Parson Edgar was
originator and moving spirit. He gradually per-
suaded many of the charitably-inclined Smart
Ones to personally pour out the cup of steaming
drink that furnishes the festive guests with dys-
pepsia, though some of them still stand on their
unchristian dignity and send an odd, spare house-
maid to represent them, and shoot the contents of
the pot into the cup. In these cases, it is said,
the festival has not the same pleasant aspect to
the Toothless Ones as when Lady Sorneone-or-
other personally hands them their hot brew with
jtwo lumps of sugar and a smile. All over
60 are invited, the alleged ages soaring as
high as 100 odd. Incidental to the Tea,
a census is taken, and the eldest consumers
are made to feel proud that they’re still able to
sink a cup with the strongest of them. Some
Samaritans send eider-down quilts and such
luxuries, which go as prizes to the very venerable
and tend to foster the art of longevity. An early
concert —with sweet ancient' ballads and a
cinematograph—usually closes the wild revel, and
then the revellers go wheezing on their way, in the
blessed hope of another corroboree next year.
Heigho ! From the Sunday School tea-fight of
jam-bespattered childhood to the gathering, of
Old Folks is along, long journey, and theredoesn’t
seem to be much money at the end of it.
Packed outgoing boats have been the order of
the day lately, but the Mooltan took the
loaf for crowded farewells. Overhead the
occasion didn’t carry an auspicious appear-
ance, and, as a matter of fact, the trip
to Adelaide realised the worst expectations.
Reports to hand state that the voice of a thousand
Little Marys was heard wailing above the tempest.
The Farewellers were much more cheerful than
the Farewelled —who showed as a mass of some-
what white worried faces in anticipation of the
trouble to come. With such a background the
Talbottle dame was conspicuously cheerful. She
chatted, and laughed, and shook hands enthusias-
tically.
Florists had the day of their lives, and were
nearly swamped with orders. Why, 0 why,
do people bear bulky baskets of blossoms to
boats, and make the recipients cross by reason
of a deadweight of vegetables? I saw one
lot dumped down unceremoniously aft, with
a word that could only be written out and handed
up to the magistrate, and an armful of posies fol-
lowed with much more force than sentiment.
And that was before the boat moved ! Later on
they were probably dashed overboard with much
dash.
The Mooltan took so many people away that
there wasn’t a Governor, or Premier, or anything
of size, left to open the Dahlia Show, so it just
had to blossom out on its own merits. As far as
dahlias were concerned the merits were not con-
spicuous, but the weather was responsible for
that. Begonias (which grow under glass) took
this weather-marred display into their warm
embrace and made it a success. Color in these
blooms runs up and down almost impossible scales.
Another corner that was not dahlia was Aus-
tralian shrubs—glorious, blazing, shouting color —
native shrubs from all the States, but grown at
Melbourne Botanical Gardens. An orange-
flowered pine, a flaming robin redbreast, a
Westralian gum with blossoms of hunter’s pink,
a white and gold, lemon-scented shrub —these
were only a few items of the dazzle. Don’t folk
want more of these in their grounds? If they
think they don’t, let them make a special pilgrim-
age to the Botanical Gardens and be converted.
Smart people really ought to take advantage of
those beautifully-kept Gardens for other purposes
than meeting a friend by appointment in a shady
spot.
For some months before he left, Governor Tal-
bottle whizzed round the uttermost parts, of the
State seeing things, and shaking hands with the
oldest inhabitant. He went down mines and up
mountains. He motored and horsebacked and
Taited (which means that he went on slow,
perilous journeys over Victoria’s railway lines).
In six months he did as much travelling as most
Governors do in six years. His Ex. was deeply
impressed with the greatness of Victoria, while
Victoria was everywhere favorably impressed
with the length of his Ex. The departed Gover-
nor promises to say kind things about Australia
when he gets to England.
Surgeon Fitzgerald is off for a trip to Europe.
Miss Burrows, so long the popular and capable
matron of the old doctor’s private hospital, wings
her flight to America. A long course of petted,
pursy invalids is twice as wearing as the same
period of attendance upon less well-to-do sufferers.
Sick nurses all say they would rather nurse a case
of consumption or cancer any day than the fine
lady, whose imaginary complaint . goes . with
swelled head, fractured temper, and intermittent
civility. One of our most decorative society
leaders engaged a nurse to tend her dying infant.
The nurse was well-born, well-educated, pretty,
and devoted by night and day to her tiny charge.
Nevertheless, baby’s mamma reproved her child’s
best friend for not standing up whenever Madame
swept into the nursery.
By the way, private hospital never sheltered a
less exacting patient than the then Countess of
Hopetoun what time her nose was broken in the
hunting-field. Whenever Hopey visited his dis-
abled mate, he would draw up a chair and say to
the matron, “Now Miss Z, sit here and make us
laugh.” And the flattered lady, as she cracked her
best jokes in response, thought of other patients
“Mrs. This” and “Miss That”—local Some-
bodies given to rewarding her conversational
attempts at cheering them up with such apprecia-
tive remarks as “ Hoe funny, but would you maind
being quaiet for a taime ? ”
“Tryphena,” from the rolling wave
My sex isn’t a fast color at sea, and it can’t find a com-
plexion to stick on. As soon as the liner gets agitated,
all poetic feeling for a turquoise sky and a dimpling sea
passes right out of mind. In its place a jaundiced
melancholy takes root, and the countenance assumes
either a drab or a Stilton-green or a pale lilac hue against
which no part is taken. The owner blinks miserably
from a lounge where all but the jaundiced com-
plexion is buried in a rug. All day long and through
the sapphire hours of the evening, the sea-sick
one is prostrated on deck, and the sex looks like a con-
signment of gloomy incurables taking the prescribed
airing on a hospital verandah. It does nothing, knows
nothing, thinks nothing. Nothing matters. Apathy
holds the sea victim in a vice. Its complexion went first
—and everything else it held dear has followed.
For the good-sailor sex (when it does occur) there is a
joy in deck life that floods the veins with the keenest
current of vitality. Eyes dance across the throbbing
blue sea and catch some of its splendid color. The
spirits keep the tongue at an incessant, blithe wag, and
the wit cut and ready. The sense of physical well-being
—the savage instinct of life and laughter—drive the
possessor into vigorous ship capers, mischief, larks that
start at breakfast and last till bunk-oh ! For the rare
flutterer who can polka when the liner inclines to an
angle of seventeen degrees, and can giggle when sea and
shin settle to an active game of pitch-and-toss, board-ship
delights are greater than any land joys. And not the
least of them is the pitying contemplation of her prostrate
sisters. Woman’s noble capacity for pity gets good exer-
cise on ship-board if she is a good sailor.
Elsie Guenett, the pretty little daughter of one-
time critic Guenett, was on the Suevio, going
Londonward to be married. Now that she is
used to the fact that she wasn’t born to be drowned,
the bride-elect is probably weeping salt tears at
the loss of her trousseau—a wonderful collection of
frills stored in the hold where “the tide flows
through,” as the papers calmly report. It must
be terrible to have the sad sea waves washing away
your trousseau and the crabs crawling over your
lingerie.
The University in general junketed on Thurs-
day over a Queen’s College wedding, the bride-
groom being Harry Sugden, brother of the
musical Master of Queen’s. Lawyer Harry was
so impressed with the success of his brothers
matrimonial state that he signed the deed of
partnership with Mrs. Sugden’s sister, and thus
prevented a nice girl going out of the family, so
to speak.
There was a swagger house party last week at
“ Corooroke.” A polo match was played at Colac,
and the Everard Brownes entertained the Sydney
Polo visitors for a week’s shooting. Two of the
men —Mr. Garvan and Mr. Stephens—motored
all the way from Sydney to the scene. Miss
Chandos-Pole and Miss Maggie Turner helped
along the girl part.
Things were done to a turn—not to say Browne.
A florist’s girl from Melbourne was forcibly held
the whole week to look after the floral decorations
of breakfasts, lunches and dinners. She had
“ carty blanchy ” (as “Hopkinson” Hugh Ward
says) in sending to town for flowers (and this in
the country !).
Mrs. Durant, of the big green motor car, gave
a theatre party and supper _to farewell Miss
Florence Young last Monday night. There was
not much time between the last bow on the stage
and the dreary departing midnight train, but
considerable warmth of feeling was concentrated
into the short interval, and Florence supped with
enthusiasm. Whatever the occasion, she is un-
failingly “ all there.” The whole party indulged
in things floral at the theatre. One huge design
held a champagne bottle in its expansive clasp.
Oily Moore—the small sister of Carrie Moore—
is in Melbourne, after an exhaustive tour of the
States. She and sister Eva have been with Pol-
lard’s Lilliputian company (made up altogether of
children), playing “The Belle of New York,”
“The Mikado'” “The Geisha,” and such things.
Oily is a dark, slim, graceful child, very like
Carrie, with her small, dark, expressive face and
great,.luminous, brown ejes, and lank, black
hair. She is a born mimic, and brims over with
impressions gathered in her wanderings. Just
now she has demurely settled down with an aunt
in St. Kilda, and goes regularly to school. The
manager of the company undertook to see to the
children’s bookation, “ but you may be sure we
didn’t do much,” says cute little Oily. “It was
like our day-time sleep; we were supposed to—
that’s all.” Sister Eva, with the advantage of
some extra years, has put her hair up more or less,
and departed with a grown-up Pollard troupe.
Amy Sherwin, back again in Melbourne, was
warmly welcomed by some of her old admirers.
A once-glorious voice carries on its echoes for long
after the fullest note is sounded. But, alas ! the
admirers didn’t roll up in battalions to the two
concerts last week, and if they wish to indulge
their “AuldLang Syne” sentiment they must
get to the Town Hall on Easter Monday night,
when Madame will sing again after a Holy Week’s
rest.
Nellie Stewart is in Melbourne, looking well
in spite of her illness, and full of enthusiastic
predictions of success for the Musgrove Opera
Co. The arm depending from the shoulder
where the trouble was is not exactly an invalid,
but it has to be carefully reckoned with. And the
reckoning must necessarily be rapid. Nellie de-
clares that she has only six weeks to “make
good ” before she returns to her importunate
American managers.
There was an aroma of motor-car incidental to
the marriage, last Thursday, of Miss Steele —of
the beauty family that includes handsome Mrs.
Wallace and Mrs. Vivian Parker. A while after
the heroine of the frilly ceremony had promised
the parson to be for better or for worse to her
Mr. Watt, the motor tooted. It was an impress-
ive and gorgeously-dressed ceremony, and the
family reputation for good looks was well-sus-
tained. As they choo-cliooed off, and the confetti
started raining, the bridegroom showed his fore-
thought by producing a pocket brush and whisk-
ing his coat and his lady’s dress. His backward
glance was triumphant, but the guests smiled
widely as they watched a big row of old boots
dangling jocosely from the back of the car. Truly
a delicate method of “ giving the show away.”
Reverend Evelyn, of the Snodgrass clan, leaves
for England by the Omrah shortly. The family
sometimes speaks of the “attached” Snodgrass
name, contending that Douglas is the real brand,
and that the other was frivolously added some
mere hundred years ago. At that rate, it must
have been a comparatively recent addition—less
than half a century old—when “Janet Lady’s”
highly genteel, but not very moneyed, papa
brought it with him to Australia, and was
vaguely suspected of being the original Mr.
Snodgrass, from “Pickwick Papers.” Howbeit,
the cheerful reverend intends to revert to the
“Douglas,” and drop the Snodgrass before his
return. How or where he does not say—perhaps
overboard. It is the sort of name which should
sink rapidly to the bottom of the ocean —Snod-
grass !
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Adelaide’s pet little exhibition of women’s work is to be
put through its paces in August, as a preliminary to fall-
ing on the neck of its big Melbourne brother ; and all the
grand dames of the State are fully determined it shall be
the best little pet ex. that was ever beheld. It will be open
over a week, including two Saturdays, and every after-
noon the Oval will be given over to sportive competitions
of every shape, size and variety, wherein horses, auto-
mobiles and other untamed beasts will cavort. The pro-
gramme of competitions in the local affair is to be identi-
cal with that at Melbourne, but far better arranged, of
course. Also, there will be separate prizes.
A horde of Adelaide folk joined the yearly Big Game
hunt in Britain and the neighboring uncivilised countries
per the Mooltan last week, and the übiquitous tearful
farewell and “token of esteem” loomed largely on the
Lenten horizon. As, for some mysterious reason, the
token invariably takes the form of a travelling bag, one
would imagine the trade in that platitudinous article must
be immense. A few of the esteemed people who got (or
deserved) the bag were Mr. and Mrs. Fred Young, the
T. O’Halloran Giles and all their chicks, Mr. and Mrs.
Leonard Waterhouse, and the Taylors (of Wood, Son and
Co.). The Blue Anchor Wakool captured yet more of the
landed gentry, and carted them off to see Edward and
Alexandra and their Island—among them Surveyor-
General Strawbridge and his wife, son and daughters,
Mr. Pelly, and theC. A. Moody family.
Rumor is rending the hearts of many a sentimental
maid in this Holy City by engaging its sweetest-expres-
sioned and longest-haired piano-smiter to some fair
vandal in London. The musical one is at present making
holiday in England, and the rumor was started by an
Adelaide maiden in the same neighborhood, who knew a
girl whose uncle by a previous marriage saw the musician
conversing with another girl in the Strand.
It is becoming fashionable to deposit any stray son
you may happen to have about in the beautiful British
navy that rules the wave. There is something so beauti-
fully aristocratic and brass-buttoned about the navy.
And what fond mamma wouldn’t part with her boy for the
joy of having him come back Lieutenant Smyth of the
H.S.M; Hippopotamus. Naval Commandant Creswell,
afore-time a denizen of this State, packed off his young
son Colin by the Mooltan the other day. He goes to
Osborne College to become a naval cadet and learn to
tread the bounding quarter-deck.
The little Doubleday maiden, her fiddle, and her
mamma are settled in Vienna, and the maestros are said
to be strewing the atmosphere with Ach Himmels and
other picturesque expressions of wonder at her playing.
It has been decided that the kiddy shall make the fiddle
her first study, but the piano is not to be given up alto-
gether. The violin teacher par excellence in Vienna, one
rejoicing in the comparatively sane name of Rossi, has
accepted Leila as a pupil, and says she will be a great
artist. Also, a fierce authority on the piano, after hear-
ing her hit the teeth and put her foot on the tail of the
large instrument, wrote to the wonderkin’s mother to
express the picturesque conviction that “ she is famous.”
Yours affectionately, JOHANNA.
Evidently a generation is arising that
knows not Charles Dickens. At Adelaide re-
cently a boy was charged with loitering, and the
solicitor told the Bench that the case reminded
him of that of Poor Jo, in “Bleak House,” who
was kept on the incessant move by Inspector
Bucket. One pressman administered a severe
rebuke : First, he wrote, the Adelaide inspector’s
name was Burchett, not Bucket; and the boy’s
name was not Joe, and if the boy was in Bleak
House the inspector could not harry him. The
law only prevented loitering in the street. Un-
fortunately, the sub-editor had read Dickens, and
the howling jest never appeared.
Arrived from America the other day, after an absence
of three years, during which they visited Manila, China,
Jw the United States, and Canada, Pollard’s Lilli-
putian Opera Company, composed entirely of Australian
juveniles. After reorganising in Melbourne, the Lilli-
putians will make a tour of the Commonwealth.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
ms
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr<d. Nagei}, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
u
M
if
V
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St. I
(opp. Hunter St.) I
SYDNEY. |
POLITICAL
POINTS
Brisbane Courier has at last definitely
thrown in its lot with Philp and Co., much to the
relief of Premier Kidston, who has hitherto been
considerably handicapped by that paper’s
attempts at patronage. No progressive leader
can afford to carry a paper with the Courier’s
black-labor traditions through an election cam-
paign
There seems to be a rush for the State
seat of Gough (N.S.W.), now occupied by
“ Reformer ” Thomas. The candidate who looks
best is W. E. Vincent, who received the nomina-
tion of the Australian party to contest New Eng-
land, and who stood down to allow Laborite
Foster to oust Lonsdale, that played-out idolator
at the shrine of Anti-Sosh.
The good words of Victorian Premier
Bent, when leaving Melbourne for England :
I find wherever I go that people speak of Canada, and
I intend to use the word “Australia.” In Canada they
have 10 States. We have not so many here, hut unfor-
tunately we use the terms Westralia, South Australia,
Victoria, Queensland, New South Wales, and Tasmania.
I think the time has arrived now when each and every
one of us should speak of Australia.
The cabled news that the new Transvaal
Ministerial salaries have been fixed at fairly'
generous figures has shocked Sydney Herald
The allowance attaching to the office of Prime Minister
in this Commonwealth is £2lOO, while other Ministers
receive £1650 ; yet it is not improbable that Australia fills
quite as large a space in the Imperial scheme of things
as the Transvaal.
But because the Australian Commonwealth has
been mean to its servants, why should the new
S. African State follow the bad example?
Apropos the importation of Italians to
work in the Queensland canefields, on the ground
that Australians can’t stand the climate. Aus-
tralian navvies worked on the Nyngan-Bourke
railway long after the Italians employed thereon
had downed tools, beaten by the heat. The
C.S.R. Co.’s lot may be made of tougher maca-
roni, but there seems a strong eventual pro-
bability of a violent and totally uncalled-for
swamping of the ice-cream and banana-barrow
professions.
A sample of the methods by which Wes-
tralia has drifted into financial chaos has turned
up in connection with the State farm, used as an
agricultural college. Nobody seems to know
what it costs; the Minister can’t find out.
All he can ascertain is that the place is chock-full
of appliances that are no good, that the stock are
mostly weeds, and that the students are getting
hardly any training that they wouldn’t be better
without. Of course reform is promised. But
Westralian Government methods want reforming
with an axe and a broom, and at the most the
present Government is armed with a clothes-
brush to wipe off the specks.
THE ARMY OF LIBERTY.
The N.S.W. State Government is a ruth-
less vandal. It first destroyed Wentworth Falls
—one of the finest falls in the world —by robbing
it of most of its water to fill a railway dam ; and
now it intends to make a drainage ditch of the
remainder of the stream, in order to get in a few
pounds of land sales revenue. Joseph Carruthers
can see nothing in the Blue Mountains but a
handy retreat to meet his pals. His troubles
about waterfalls.
J. P. T. Caulfield, the Boy Politician
(who may be called the Boy Polly-Caulfield for
short), supplied one of the happy episodes of the
recent Vic. election :
In the course of a speech at the Queen’s Hall, Caulfield,
last night, Mr. J. P. T. Caulfield, said that when he de-
cided to contest the seat he went away for a month’s re-
cuperation in the 'Blue Mountains, because he knew that
the fight against the capitalistic and monopolistic forces
which had represented the electorate so long would be
trying for his nervous system. He then heard of the de-
cision of Mr. Bent to have the elections early. Being
friendly with the Premier, he despatched a telegram to him
stating, “ Kindly delay the elections until my nervous
system is recuperated.” Mr. Bent did not see his way to
make the change.”
Bent, being a great hulking character who has no
more use for nerves than a bear has for a fan and
a bottle of scent, was naturally unsympathetic.
A further
huge scoop out
of the Victorian
Treasury is pro-
posed for the
benefit of thefar-
mers in the
Wimmera an d
Southern Mai lee
districts. These
areas at present
are controlled
by five water
“ trusts ” the
Wimmera Uni-
ted, Western
Wimmera, Bir-
chip, Wy ch e-
proof, and Sea
Lake. There are
between 6000
and 7000 square
miles of country
concerned. How
the farmers
have kept their
promises to the
State is shown
by the present
indebtedness of ■
these
bodies. The far-
mer is Sosh
when the State
is conferring the
benefits, but still
more Sosh when
he is asked to
pay the interest.
The debits in
the State ledger
are at present :
Wimmera Uni-
ted Trust,
£107,300; West-
ern Wimmera,
£77,483 ; Bi r-
chi p, £5076;
Wycheproof, £8924; Sea Lake, £47,040. Ad-
vances to shires bring up the total to £274,763.
There is about £4O owing on every square mile.
Now Government proposes to spend £179,209
more, which will make the whole debt £453,972,
or about £65 per square mile. And this is a dis-
trict which most strenuously votes Anti-Sosh all
the time.
“ Caber ” writes :
The unevenness of Queensland politics, with the rapid
fluctuations of opinions, conjure up reminiscences of
Warwick in the sixties. It used then to change its
opinions and its member every election. The fight was
mostly between Democrat Morgan and Squatter Clark,
and they came and went by turns. Other electorates ran
things on much the same principle of now-you-see-it-and-
now-you-don't. The great exception was Drayton and
Toowoomba, and that brings up another reminiscence.
When “Johnny” Watts, of Eton Vale, resigned the Dray-
ton and Toowoomba seat in 1862, it was regarded as a
certainty for J. C. White, of Jondaryan (he went down in
the wreck of that Maoriland boat, the name of which I
can’t spell), but William Henry Groom came forward.
White’s crowd sported rosettes of blue and White, and to
keep the Groom men from indulging in decorative dis-
plays, J.C. bought all the ribbon in the county of Aubigny.
But William Henry rose to the occasion. He got an acre
of Turkey twill, and had rosettes built therefrom. The
red won by 21. votes, and after that it was carried to
victory for 37 years. When the electorate got two mem-
bers, the dark blue was added, and in ’99 the conjoined
colors won their last fight. Groom went over the Great
Range in 1901, when Federal member for Darling Downs;
and “ Johnny ” Fogarty followed his colleague two years
ago, while still representing the old constituency.
The lesson of the Butter Commission is
already lost on the fool farmer of Vic-
toria. The other day George Stewart,
chairman of Colac Dairying Co., told
his suppliers that in listening to the
wiles of the army of travellers can-
vassing for the Melbourne butter
manufacturers and agents, they
were steadily ruining them-
selves. Their co-operative fac-
tory returned them every
penny earned, and though the
agents might offer a trifle
more to-day, they would
more than get it back to-
morrow, when they had
killed the co-operative
companies; moreover,
the wages of all those
travellers would ulti-
mately come out of the
farmers’ pockets. But
the farmer can’t or
won’t see it. He wants
the egg to-day, so he kills the goose.
A recurring feature of the Vic. State
elections is the contest between journalist Thomas
Hunt, of Kilmore, and the regrettable Malcolm
Kenneth McKenzie, farmer and land-acquirer,
for the electorate that has gone under the names
of Kilmore and Dalhousie, Anglesey and Upper
Goulburn. Hunt topped the poll away back in
’B6, and again in ’B9. In ’92 McKenzie ousted
him. Next election he beat him again, but by
only 169 votes in a 2600 poll. In ’97 Hunt lay
low and said nothing, and again in ’OO, when
McK. beat Fenton, and in ’O2 when he was un-
opposed. Then came the exposure of McKenzie’s
land dealings, and he was forced to resign. But
in ’O4 he bobbed up once more— Hunt having won
the bye-election—and got within 32 votes of his
old opponent—B62 to 894. The other day he tried
his luck and the public memory once more. The
public memory was rather too good for him, so he
polled only 1184 to Hunt’s 1201.
Of metropolitan electors 58‘8 per cent,
voted in the recent Victorian election, as against
61'75 per cent, in the country. The worst
examples were the market-gardening and
fruit-growing district of Dandenong and the
haughty constituency represented by Speaker
Madden, in both of which but 39 per cent,
troubled to mark their papers. The best percent-
age was put up by Dalhousie, where the perennial
Duffy and farmer Argyle battled to a finish that
left the former but 26 votes behind in a poll of
2604 out of 3336 electors—7B per cent. The
Rodney farmers took such an interest in the con-
test that three out of every four turned up to help
decide the merits of Hugh M'Kenzie and Sammy
Lancaster. As might be expected, five Tory
electorates —St. Kilda, Toorak, Melbourne, East
Melbourne, and Boroondara—show up worst in
the percentage of city folk who did their duty,
and. five Labor constituencies stand best.
THE OFFERTORY.
SOMNOLENT DEALER : “ Discount for cash, please.”
Victoria’s new Assembly is fairly repre-
sentative, though some callings have an extra
large finger in the pie. There are nine farmers,
six auctioneers, five lawyers and as many store-
keepers, four agents of sorts, four graziers, three
“ gentlemen,” two journalists, a couple of boot-
makers. and one each stone-cutter, tailor’s ditto,
laborer, artist, butcher, photographer, hay and
corn dealer, turner, engineer, rate collector, ware-
houseman, traveller, engine-driver, cordial manu-
facturer, printer, cutter, legal manager, vigneron,
surveyor, blacksmith, watchmaker, valuer (Bent
himself), accountant, managing director and
publican. Also, one member states his occu-
pation as “landowner,” which, like that of
“ bishop,” seems a nice, clean, easy profession.
Fathers casting about for professions for their sons
are hereby recommended to apprentice them to the
trade of landowner. Jack Murray used once to
be the only “gentleman” in Victoria’s Assembly,
but he has now got Bent’s discarded Minister,
Langdon, and Hubert Patrick Keogh, Allan
McLean’s successor for North Gippsland, as mates.
“Crimson Wing” on the Queensland
political situation :
I notice that The Bulletin has published notes from
some pessimistic democrat as to the outcome of the next
general elections. On the highways and byways of this
State I have met and talked with men and things, and
the men are Kidstonite every time, and many of the
women too, and the opinion of the things doesn’t
matter. Queensland is not the fool country some of your
scribes think it is. Good government during good seasons
has given Queenslanders time to look at affairs, and, if my
chance of living were as small as Philp’s chance of getting
a majority, I’d order my wooden frock-coat to-morrow.
In spite of the utterances of office-hungry Mat Reid and
chief puppet-worker Hinchcliffe, the working men are
thinking for themselves, and the more they think the
more determined they are to lend a helping hand
to Wullie Kidston. I’m a worker myself, and I
know. Mat Reid tried to widen the “little rift ” the
other day at the O.P. Convention, and spoke about “ the
parting of the ways.” About the best “ parting of ways ”
for Queensland democrats is to put Reid and Hinchcliffe
on board a special train (not prepaid) and detain the mail
for oblivion till the special arrives to connect.
It is generally understood that all the old-
world lines of steamers running
to Australia do so at a great
annual loss, burning coal out of
sheer good nature ; and that
the opposition to the pro-
posed new mail line is
entirely a matter of
dispassionate kindness.
Particularly is the case
of the Messageries Mari-
times a hard one, the ter-
rible financial disasters
it puts up with in the
cause of humanity being
painful to think of. Now
we learn that a powerful
combination named the
Lloyd Francais has undertaken to run still
another regularly losing line from Marseilles to
Australian ports. This philanthropy grows
monotonous.
The irony of it. While Premier Moore,
of Westralia, is negotiating for the importation
into that State of 30 Italians, on the very com-
fortable basis of paying their fares, giving them
land, and lending them something to start with,
comes the public statement in a baby-farming in-
quest that 33 young Australians (out of 37 born)
died —primarily of starvation. If Westralia
possessed State foundling hospitals where no
questions were asked when the white baby
arrived, it might have saved, in this one case,
which is probably only one case among many,
three more immigrants than all the heap Of pro-
spective Dagos about whom Premier Moore
makes so much fuss and feathers. And these
would be people of our own race, with Aus-
tralian sympathies, and they wouldn’t ask
for the present of a farm apiece. Of course it
may be that many of them were illegitimate, and
Snuffle rises in its top hat, and flourishing its
midnight gamp, to say that any State effort to
save them would be “encouraging immorality.”
Well, even if Snuffle waved two gamps instead of
one, how is it going to guarantee that quite a
proportion of its assisted immigrants are not
illegitimate also ? And what would it matter if
it did ?
This from “ Squidge ”
Nothing about the Victorian Labor party is more dig
appointing than its headquarters—the Melbourne Trades
Hall, It is a mouldy cavern of neglect and dirt. The
building itself is a fine one that anyone ought to be
proud of; but apparently it has never occurred to anyone
since the day of its opening to brush off the accumulated
dust, to dean the columns and pilasters (if that is what
they are called) of the walls, to polish up or paint the
woodwork, or to do anything that careful men, and men
proud of their building, would be ashamed to leave
undone. Great hideous spikes driven into the facade
once supported ugly advertisement hoardings with
glaring statements about dead and gone Eighi Hours
fetes, and from them there now hang dusty and long, cot.
web covered ribbons of kinked wire. The hoarding!
were torn down or blew down, and it was nobody's
business to remove the spikes and wires. Such an
exterior prepares a visitor for the inside. Muddy
boots and a long-continued lack of brooms anil
scrubbing-brushes have combined to make the search
for any particular room in the big place a lonj
horror. The reading-room is haunted by old paperi,
dog’s-eared, torn, and brown with venerableness. There
is no sign of intelligent attempt to make the place
respectable. A decent horse would object to be stabled
in parts of it. Somebody is needed who will s' and up in
their council and tell the members that men who are
content to sit on dirty, greasy seats in a half-cleaned room,
approached by rank-smelling corridors and musty, be-
grimed staircases, are not the sort who will ever do much
good in politics or in anything else. Until they can
properly govern and conduct their own place (and ol
such government order and cleanliness are the visible
signs), they cannot expect to make a success of governing
the country.
One noble feature of the recent Victorian
elections is that the insectarian crowd, the
Bible-in-Schools push, the faddiscs and goody-
goodies generally sustain a heavy set-hack.
Judkins, about the best-advertised man in the
State, except perhaps Bent, after choosing the
softest —because yellowest—district open, is sent
about his business—22Bo votes to 1526. The rest
of the Protestant Electors’ nominees—Carter,
Wood Green, O’Neill, Barrett, Wishart, Robert-
son, Ramsay—all failed. One or two very mild
Insectarians crawled back—J. W. Mason and
Gurr of Geelong— but generally the State spoke
out as straightly as the circumstances allowed.
An old military man writes
A recent Bulletin par. talks of the way people are
allowed to sketch and photograph the “ forts,” or alleged
forts, about Botany Bay. What else do the authorities
want ? On the side of a road leading from Bondi towards
South Head is a wooden cottage close to a wide gate.
There is also a conspicuous notice board with “ Bondi
Fort” on it. Why the curiosity of the passing stranger
should be excited in that way is nob clear. There is
nothing that seems at all like a fort-. The wooden cottage
is quite harmless-looking. There is a very ordinary wire-
fence, and inside it a hill of rock and sand and scrub. In
other parts of the world forts generally show a retiring
disposition. They never hang out notice-boards with
their names, and all that the casual stranger can see
when he comes near them is a series of gentle grassy
slopes, with their tops rising one above the other.
At the top of the first slope he finds himself stopped by
a sudden drop of the ground and a stout palisade.
Beyond these are a ditch, 30ft. or 40ft. deep, with strong
retaining walls on each side, and a much higher and
steeper grassy slope beyond. Before he has had time to
note details, he will most likely have been asked by a
gruff person to give an account of himself. The cost of
fortifying some seaports is enormous. Antwerp (Bel-
gium) is defended by an enceinte and two citadels, and
also by no less than 23 enclosed, detached forts, each
with its own garrison, its own magazine, and stores
enough for a six months’ siege. These forts are far enough
from the city to prevent the possibility of bombardment
till at least three or four of them are taken, and they can
only be attacked one at a time. When Sydney and Mel-
bourne are similarly girdled with strong, independent
forts they will be fairly safe, and not before.
While supine local ineflicients —mostly of
the importing class —who judge the country by
themselves, wail about the impossibility of build-
ing an Australian navy locally, the English ex-
perts, Clarke and Esplen, not only think the
proposal feasible, but reckon our present facilities
ample. Clarke says (Esplen agreeing) that he
“would willingly undertake to build a first-class
torpedo boat at Mort’s Dock, with the plant and
conveniences already there.” Perhaps now the
local worm will begin to look up.
Melbourne Argus estimates that Bent’s
surpluses, for four years, have totalled £2,200,000,
and gasps with horror because nearly £1,000,000
of revenue has been spent on public works.
Consequently it yells for a reduction of taxa-
tion. The Argus objection is to the principle
of paying for your public works with your
own money. In the Argus view, all the
work of development
should be done by
Cohen per medium
of the public lOU.
AT THE CANNON'S MOUTH.
The Liberals, in the approaching contest, would have
to face the same forces as the Reid party had to contend
with at the Federal election. Substantially the parties
supporting the liquor and gambling interests ranged up
behind the Labor party.— Job Cook.
Westralia has now started monkeying with
the Sinking Fund, which it some time ago decided
should be made a feature of every loan. In con-
nection with its last visit to the pawnshop, a
resolved that the Sinking Fund provision should
be suspended for four years. But it didn’t resolve
that the foreign mining and timber cos. should
suspend exploiting the country for four years.
It just pushed the repayment of the debt four
years further towards eternity, so as to give the
absentees more time to get the cream off, and
throw more of the burden upon the local people
who will be left with the skimmed milk.


THE
CALLAGHAN
SHOE for LADIES.
■ ■
S
This is an actual Photo-
graph of the SHOE ITSELF.
HOW DO YOU LIKE IT,
LADIES ?
ç
Or Post Paid any-
where in the
Commonwealth,
11/6
Stout Glace Kid, circular vamps, stylish patent leather toe caps,
SOLID SOLES, a grand wearing shoe - - -
10/9
We have scores and scores of ether Shoes on sale for walking 1 ,
house, or party wear.
IPgT* WRITE FOR A POST FREE COPY OF OUR NEW STYLE-BOOK.
PLEASE READ THE FOLLOWING :■
“ Messrs. Callaghan & Son, —Dear Sirs, —I am
pleased to tell you that those shoes were the
most comfortable, and, indeed, absolutely the best
that I have ever worn, so that if you can send me
another pair like them I shall be more than
satisfied. —J.C.L.V., Bingarra, Dec. 27th, 1906.”
“ Megsrs. Callaghan & Son,
Dear Sirs,—Shoes to hand, and I am well
satisfied with them. They are a perfect fit and
extremely comfortable. Please keep my measure
at hand. —G. 8., Sumbean Mine, via Bowen,
Dec, 29th, 1906.”
n.
't
<£ h
it
ER
MAh
PA WATtK)
52* plat 3P*im»v
< v rf
0/ U.rm-» * t*"»
(LANDS
A.. . DILIC t
a -
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
44 1 give you 4 KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
•1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATGOMBA,
BALLARAT."
■P. & B. PAINT.
"If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
IRON ROOFS are intensely hot in Summer, and disagreeable to the
eye at all times. There is, however, a simple way in which they may be
MADE COOL AND ENJOYABLE, and that is by applying P. & B. RED
ROOF PAINT, which lowers the temperature, and produces a restful,
artistic effect for the eye.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
'CUttZ
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & GO. HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & GO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Makes you look manly
Before
After
1
Your Moustache Troubles
are over when you begin to use CAPILLARINE.
No matter how many so-called “sure moustache
growers” you have tried, just try CAPILLARINE and it
will give you a heavy, luxurious moustache in quick time.
CAPILLARINE IS 10/6 anywhere.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
“HARNESS THE WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OP ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We arb the Largest
Importers in Australia
op
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
i*
PRICE 27/6
AT LAST !!
Standard Typewriter at a
mm
■ I
m '
THE
-
BRITON
Reasonable Price
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High-Grade Machine.
Our “Dlreot Drive” Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
(KEY)
Is an exclusive patent and saves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any the postman carries.
IT VPIEE PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week without an instructor.
Write To-day
for particulars of our Free Trial
offer. All our literature Is Free.
Southern Sales Coy.,
6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GREY ST., WELLINGTON. N. 2.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Oup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Bib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Imposters:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrt. I. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
*- a
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Owing to the fact that he was shelved in a
hospital for some weeks, many people had forgotten that
crack English swimmer Dave Billington is still in
Australia. He is now at large again, and in
Sydney. His manager reports that he has made
an excellent recovery, and hopes to shatter a few records
before leaving Australia. The fact that the Australian
crack swimmers cannot meet the man who is regarded as
practically champion of the world in his own line has
aroused a certain languid local interest in a proposal
recently put forward by a British newspaper, 'that in
championship races professionals and amateurs should be
allowed to race together, as long as the pro. re-
ceives no remuneration or share of the takings. While
admitting that it would be very interesting to be able to
decide definitely who is champion of the world in every
branch of sport, The Bulletin is of opinion that the inno-
vation would be a had one generally. It would mean
that, in the great majority of cases, the championships
would be held by men who made a trade of their sport;
and we don’t want to encourage anyone to do that. The
object of sport is to improve the physical development of
the people, and it is unfair to call upon amateurs, who
devote only their spare time to athletics, to compete with
those who live by them. It is far better for a man to
distinctly understand that, when he decides to make his
living by athletics he is of a class apart, and cannot
compete for honors and prizes given to encourage the
people in the mass to take healthy exercise.
ft- * * *
Reported from Maoriland that Dick Cavill has
been showing flashes of his old form, and also that
Richard has given up ginger-beer, signed the pledge to
take no more pea-nuts, and settled down to hard train-
ing. Wild horses and steam tugs have not been able, so
far, to drag from him what he is after. Presumably it
is a match with Billington.
•* *• * •
Although they may not meet him in the water,
the swimmers of Sydney rolled up and gave David Bil-
lington a real bright welcome at the Sports Club when
he arrived in the Harbor city. Referring to his disquali-
fication, Billington made some caustic remarks. He
declares that the action of the Swimming Association
was taken owing to a mix-up in the telegraphed reports
of the Paris swim. He said the officials would not allow
him to give evidence on his own behalf, and refused to
read letters from the officers and president of the
French Association denying the accusation. Bil-
lington concluded his remarks with what was
probably solemn truth : “Being merely the son of
the manager of the municipal baths at Bacup, and
not of an aristocratic family, I suppose, went against
me.” There is but little doubt had his name been the
Honorable David Blueblood Billington, he would have
Still been an unsullied amateur. Billington, by the way,
although only 22 years of age, has 400 prizes to his credit,
including the King’s Gold Cup for Amateurs, which he
won against all cpmers and all nationalities in 1902.
When Reg. Healy started at Drummoyne Bath
on Saturday to win the 1320yds. championship of N.S.W.
he had no idea that he would come out of the water
covered with the undying fame of having broken a world’s
record. Including himself, only four started, and one of
these, Jacobs, left the water after travelling 630yds. The
course was 39 laps and 20yds., and at the end of the 10th
lap Healy overtook Hardwick, who had led him till then,
and passed him. Young Dickman came gliding up and
tackled Hardwick for second place, while Healy streaked
away to win by 28yds. from Dickman, who was full 17yds.
in front of the exhaused Hardwick. Healy had covered
the distance in 18min. 7 2-5 sec. , which was notable time,
having not only broken Dave Billington’s world’s record,
but absolutely smashed it, by chipping off 32 3-5 sec.
David Billington established his record of ISmin. 40sec. at
Leicester on August 4,1903.
• » * »
T. Henderson is one of the crack swimmers
who goes out to Coogee to disport in the breakers, and,
true to his custom, he went out on Sunday last and
struck the hardest day’s work of his life. A fearsome
current was running, and the people who knew nothing
about it went in gaily. No less than 19 of them had to
be hauled out by main force. To return to Henderson.
Two girls were carried out, and Roy Allan gallantly went
to their assistance, only to find himself blinded by the sheen
of the pearly gates. Then T. Henderson jumped into the
life-belt and swam out, but was in the last stage of
exhaustion by the time he got the original three on to
the line, and, although he bad the assistance of the belt,
he was nearly washed out to sea himself. However, he
got back, and took a few seconds on the floor to get his
wind. Just as he was getting a grip of it, two more
flats, men this time, raised a yell for help, and
Henderson and Allan, although not recovered from the
previous excitement, plunged in again and did more
rescue work. Then these two heroes, after a hurried
consultation, decided to leave before they got into
difficulties themselves. All day long boys and girls were
being hauled out, and, immediately they were rescued,
fools who had been looking on plunged gaily in to see
if they could not create a sensation by requiring the life-
line. This sort of thing ought to lead to the prohibition
of bathing on such a beach. When 19 people get into
difficulties in one Sunday, it is time to quarantine the
place.
* » • •
The Melbourne football clubs are publishing
their balance-sheets, as per usual, and as it was in the
past, so it is again in the present. In Collingwood club’s
statement of expenditure, travelling expenses absorb
£133 16s. Over and above those ordinary travelling
exes., the Tasmanian tour ran away with £463 165., and a
special train to Geelong cost £l5 Bs. Total of £613 on
travelling. The total expenditure of the club was
£1368 11s. 4d. Other interesting items are : refreshment
account, £67 Is. 5d.; medicines, bandages and baths,
£3B 35.; uniforms, hoots, etc., £52 65.; and general
expenses, wreaths, washing, boot-studs, flags, etc.,
£3l 9s. 3d. In fact, the only thing that is not set out in
careful detail is the amount paid to professional toe-
ballers for services rendered; but, as the commercial
traveller told the boss, it’s there, all the same, although
you can’t see it.
* * * »
The only difference between Collingwood’s
balance-sheet and that of South Melbourne is that in the
latter’s document the trail of the cloven hoof is more
noticeable. South Melbourne lumps the most incon-
gruous items together in a bewildering sort of way, which
suggests that balance-sheets were invented to hide the
real sources of expenditure. For instance, fire and acci-
dent insurance are lumped together with assistance to
injured players (£91105.). Then the medical fees, which
might reasonably have been included with the assistance
to injured players, are thrown in with the expenses of the
audit, and stand at £45 14s. Travelling expenses are put
in on their own, and amouht to £163 Bs. 9d., and im-
mediately afterwards there are items such as cab hire
to matches, baths, etc., £2O Is. 6d., and a special train to
Geelong totalled £l9. And yet all these are, more or
less, travelling expenses. The supply of uniforms and
boots cost £B7 6s. 2d., and material and training exes,
ran to £56 14s. 4d. Refreshments came to £B3, and
players’ teas swallowed £47 10s. Theatres ate up another
£44 17s. 9d. The most curious were hot sea and Turkish
baths, £25 Bs. 6d., and wedding presents £l5 2s. Band-
ages and embrocation cost £37 Bs. 2d. Apparently there
are some pampered pups in the South crowd. The ques-
tion is, should this sort of thing, which is obviously a
roundabout way of paying crack players for their ser-
vices, be allowed in an amateur organisation ? It would
he interesting to know how many of the gentlemen who
were given money for hot sea baths, for instance, ever
took them.
* * * *
The levelling hand of Sport again — only this
time the hand was a toe. Of the S’Africans who last
season swept the British football fields, 20 fought in the
war—nine on the Jew-Chow side, 11 on the side of their
oountry. In healing wounds the scrum is mightier than
the sword.
* * * *
The competition for the Governor’s Cup, the
trophy for which the Sydney Australian-rules footballers
spoil their clothes and harden their legs, will start on
May 4, when the Y.M.O.A. team will set the ball rolling
against Paddington.
* * * *
Prince Alfred Yacht Club held its final race
for the season on Saturday afternoon under ideal con-
ditions. The handicaps being given at the start of the
race robbed the fixture of the picturesqueness that makes
the sudden unloosing of the whole squadron a sight to be
remembered. Subsequent to the starting of the handicap,
Rawhiti and Awanui were sent off on their second test.
The light wind and the fact that on her approximate
rating Awanui started with a handicap of smin. 32sec.
made the race a hopeless-looking one from the start.
• * • *
True to his custom, owner Brockhoff was behind
time at the starting line, and the rest of the club’s fleet
had been dispatched on the handicap before he came
along. It was the faintest of E.S.E. breezes, and utterly
devoid of weight, so both yachts got away with their top-
sails etched against the turquoise sky. The time allow-
ance was to be adjusted at the finish. Rawhiti had no
hope against the lighter boat, which gained Imin. 46sec.
on the work to Bradley’s. In fact at first it looked as
though Rawhiti was in for a ferocious doing. The
ballooners blew out, and both boats stood for
Manly, where Rawhiti caught a slant of wind and
began to move. But Awanui rounded ahead, although
the lead had dropped to 56sec. Across the heads
Awanui broke away again, and at Shark Island had gained
78ec. ; another Bsecs. were gained on the run to Fort
Denison, where both vessels sailed into a dead calm. On
the run to the winning line Sydney got the first chance
to see what Awanui looks like with them all on. A huge
jib-topsail, balloon foresail and spinnaker hid it from the
vulgar gaze, and it moved through the almost motion-
less atmosphere like a a shadow, reminding one of
an etching on a large emu’s egg. Rawhiti was beaten
by Bmin. 18sec., or 2min. 46sec. more than its rating
allowance. Unless these wins are upset by the measure-
ment, Awanui will he N.S.W. respresentative in the next
contest for the Sayonara Oup.
* ■» * *
In the P.A.Y.O.’s last handicap in Sydney
Harbor Herreshoff and Cooya made a long duel right
away to Manly, where the boat with the Teutonic sound-
ing name was in the van. Kukuburra had closed on
both of them. Before reaching Shark Island Herreshoff
fell away to leeward, and Cooya went to the front, and
Kukuburra drew a little closer. Caught between Rawhiti
and Awanui, Kukuburra fell away, but on the second
round made up the lost water, and catching Cooya on
the run home, beat it by 49sec. This is the Alfred Club’s
last appearance this season.
* * » *
In Sydney regatta and club racing, Brockhoff’s
Rawhiti stands easily first, having scored four wins, one
second, and one third, and prize money to the value of
£47 17s. Scotia and Kukuburra have both scored three
wins each and one second, and Kukuburra has scored
two thirds, a fact which gives her £37 16s. to Scotia’s
£35 7s. Next to Rawhiti, Culwulla was the money
earner, taking £42 6s. for one first, five seconds, and five
thirds—a wonderfully good record.
* « * *
Horses are not the only racing machines that
show sudden and startling reversals of form. In the
open boat racing on Saturday, in the Sydney Sailing
Club’s Handicap, Keriki reversed in a fearsome manner.
Leading by eight seconds at the last turn round Shark
Island, Famous was allowed to overhaul and beat Taylor’s
charge by 17sec. Which looks like darned bad naviga-
tion, to say the least.
’* * * •
On Easter Monday morning Charles Relph’s
Invincible will make n effort to enter Sydney Heads nd
reach the military wharf at Cobbler’s Beach without
being detected by the searchlights. The Invincible is
painted a bright green, and is almost invisible on a gray
day when travelling at high speed. At the fag end of a
faded gray night it will perhaps be quite invisible.
» * * *
Manager Sherwood, of the Sydney branch of
the big Dunlop Rubber Co., announces that his company
will supply a third Dunlop Shield for the cyclists’ Inter-
Club competition. The first shield hangs in the rooms of
the Balmain Club, and the second is the property of the
Enfield body. The Union proposes to make some slight
alteration in the conditions of the competition for the
third shield.
* * * *
Newcastle (N.S.W.) is the only branch of the
League of Wheelmen which keeps on catering for racing
cyclists near Sydney, and rakes in the shekels in conse-
quence. A two-nights’ meeting last week was a success
financially ; and brought out some fine racing-. The chief
item was a challenge match between English cyclist
Gascoigne (who recently plugged under the assumed
name of “ Mills”) and O. H. Brook ; but Brook put his
opponent down rather easily, and also won the five-mile
scratch race, and the ten-mile State championship.
Gascoigne, however, is a better handicap cyclist, and
won two open handicaps from scratch.
* ■* * »
The Dunlop Rubber Co. is now making pre-
liminary arrangements for the running of the Warrnam-
bool to Melbourne road race inter-State tests. The big
event itself will probably transpire some time in Sep-
tember, but in the meantime each State has to hold its
own test race to decide who is competent to represent it
in the biggest road race in Australasia—if not the world.
There’s a sure fortune awaiting that substi-
tute for rubber, recently paragraphed in The Bulle-
tin, if it proves effective. During the last 15 years
the demand for rubber has more than doubled, and
is still increasing by leaps and bounds. In South
America whole rubber plantations have been ruth-
lessly destroyed in the endeavor to keep pace with
an increasing market, and as the African (Congo)
material is of practically no use for tyres the outlook for
the cyclist and the motorist is disquieting. Big groves
of rubber trees have been planted in Ceylon and the
Straits Settlements, but it will be some years before they
are in full blast, so to speak. Under these circumstances
it is very probable that wheel and car men will be shortly
faced with the alternative of paying more for their tyres
or having less rubber in them.
* * * *
Approval has been given for the construction
of a broad avenue from the new Mitchell Library, across
the Domain, leading up to the National Art Gallery.
This will mean a knock-out blow to the old cricket pitch
on the Domain, where the inter-State matches used to be
played by persons in top-hats. The same green, later on,
was the scene of the important inter-club matches, when
the Carlton, Albert, and Belvidere clubs struggled for
supremacy. The decision illustrates the usual tendency
in Australia to steal a bit of park at every opportunity
for a public building, or a road, or a Governor’s residence.
Manly (Syd.) has now got its breaker-riding
boat launched, and henceforth surf-bathing will be a
much safer pastime than it was in the days arear.
Attorney-General Wade performed the ceremony of
cutting the ribbon, and ,the boat, which was manned
mostly by the famous Sly life-saving family, shot away
to where the dazzling green turned to rearing white
horses, and rode them easily. It will be now almost
impossible 'to commit suicide at the ocean beach, let alone
get drowned against one’s will. Out at Bondi, practi-
cally nothing has been done. Some of the more
regular habitues have formed a life-saving club, which
works hard instructing swimmers how to go about saving
a person in difficulties ; but the Council has not lifted a
finger. Although Manly Council was quite prepared to
pay for the construction of its boat out of the municipal
funds, it was, fortunately, unnecessary. The people
shelled out so liberally that the boat and the life-saving
plant have all been paid for by public subscription.
Manly is now the most popular and safest place—the only
safe place, in fact—in which to indulge in the luxury
of surf bathing.
* * * *
Cabled that Lord Linlithgow, alias Hopetoun,
has again fallen off his neddy in the hunting field, and
fractured some part of himself. The foolishness of
Linlithgow, alias Hopetoun, is saddening. Like most of
the British Governors with whom Australia has been
burdened, Hopey was absolutely dangerous on horseback
unless tied on. The bright, loveable exception to the
rule was young Duff, whose father died while running
N.S.W. On one occasion when riding in an amateur
event Duff hugged the brute underneath him as though
it were a long-lost brother, or his best girl, or something
of that sort. There wasn’t an inch of that horse’s surface
he didn’t touch, and the animal’s coat shone like satin
from the polishing Duff’s riding pants gave it. And as
for the range of the spurs—well, there are things that
are not nice to write about.
* * # *
Tasmania, of which so little has been heard
lately that its presence on the map was beginning to be
a matter of doubt, had its annual sculling championship
tussle lately. W. Robinson, of Esk, was the winner, and
in the fierce struggle for the championship of Sleepy
Hollow he easily outcrawled Jack, of Tamar. It was a
bloodless victory. Sport, like most other things, save
sleep, is very anaemic in the Flyspeck.
Something like a sensation was made in tennis
circles in Sydney last week when N.S. Waler Horace
Rice beat the hitherto invincible Maorilander, Parker, in
the Singles Championship of N.S.W. tournament. Rice’s
three sets were won by 6—4, 6—3, 6—l; and Parker got
a look in twice with 6—3 and 7—5. Tennis players nearly
smothered Rice when the game was over, and one enthu-
siastic lady player hugged him boldly and unashamedly.
Rice will hold the Cup for the next twelve mouths.
* * * *
“ Vulcan ” : Accounts of a weird motor happen-
ing come from France. A Montpellier doctor purchased
a car at Lyons, and engaged a chauffeur to drive It home,
the owner and two friends accompanying. At a steep
incline, the car began to fly down without brakes. The
doctor shouted for them to be applied, but no notice was
taken, and, bending forward to enforce his commands, he
was somewhat surprised to find the wheel in the hands of
a dead man ! The car crashed into a house a t the bottom
of the hill, killing the doctor’s two friends, and fracturing
the medical gentleman’s leg.
* * * *
John Wren, law-breaker, hauled down his
colors last week and undertook to abandon bo;h the
Collingwood Tote and the City Tattersall’s Club. An
application had been made to have the premises
placed in “ quarantine ” according to the provisions of
Bent’s new Anti-Gambling Act; and then the tote-man
seems to have realised that the game was up. So one of
his friends waited on the superintendent of police and
requested that the extreme step should not be taken,
as it would not injure Mr. Wren, but the owners of the
properties, who were quite innocent. The superintendent
made no promise, but hied him out to Studley House,
where Wren lies a-hed from the results of the knock he
got in the row at Swinburne’s meeting. There
Wren personally undertook to close up and retire from
both premises and have no more to do with the running
of illegal gambling enterprises. He is going to settle
down and be a respectable racecourse proprietor.
This sympathy for the owners of the property is very
touching. If they allowed their premises to be used for
the purpose of defeating the law, they are richly entitled
to all the injury the law can do them.
* • •
One of the curiosities of the A. J.O. legislation
is that, although no horse-owner is allowed to either race
horses or lay odds at a pony meeting, a man who operates
as a bookmaker at pony meetings can race horses at
meetings under the A. J.C. suzerainty. Why the A.J.C.
has thus greased the pony bookmaker has never been
explained.
* * * *
o The Wade Anti-Gambling Act created a strange
P, sifcion with regard to the hitherto “ unregistered
•Yuba.” In the old days, when the A.J.C. was a law unto
■self, the pony branch of the sport was utterly accursed,
a nd no one who touched the unclean thing could enter
%e kingdom of the A.J.C. But the Wade Act altered all
c hat. The A.J.C. is no longer the panjandrum of the
business, and the pony-racing section is as legal as the
A.J.C. itself. Moreover, as the business is now all fixed
by law, the reasons which made the A.J.C. attitude
reasonable and justifiable in the past no longer operate.
Therefore, the A.J.C. should take time by the eyebrow
and do gracefully the thing that it will be compelled to
do in any case before very long. It is a wise A.J.C. that
knows when to get out. Instead of facing the matter in
a straightforward manner and dealing with the whole
question, the A.J.C. has so far just shuffled round it, and
intimated in a surreptitious sort of manner that individual
cases will he dealt with on their merits. Now that the
Kensington, Rosebery Park and Ascot clubs have
amalgamated, and have the time they originally spent
fighting one another idle on their hands, they will
probably devote some of their leisure to forcing the hand
of the erstwhile governing club.
• • • •
The country people who are pouring to Sydney
are deeply interested in the high-jumping at Wirth’s
Circus. Just now the crack jumper is Lady Morton,
who last Saturday night, spite of a strained shoulder,
cleared 6ft. Bin. This mare, which was bred by H. D.
Morton, of Coolangatta (N.S.W.), beat all Australasian
records at Christchurch when she cleared, with several
inches to spare, a 7ft. OJin. jump in the presence of the
press and a judging committee. The only performances
to beat this are those of two Amurkan horses, Heather-
bloom and Pearl. Pearl cleared 7ft. 6}in. at Des Moines,
lowa, on September 20, 1902. This was regarded as a
world’s record, but in 1903, at Philadelphia Horse Show,
Heatherbloom cleared 7ft. 9in., and, two years later,
eclipsed her own, and all other records, by
clearing 7ft. lOin. at Norfolk, Virginia. It is now
explained that at Amurkan horse-shows the neddies
jump from turf-covered spring-hoards, and for that
reason their records are not taken seriously in other
parts of this ball of mud. If this is correct, then Lady
Morton holds the championship of the world for high
jumping under natural conditions. Lady Morton is not
the only jumper the show possesses, however ; another
horse, Maori, is a fairly-good flyer, and the little 13'2
hands pony, Playmate, is a wonder. At Sydney Show in
April, 1905, he broke all records of his class by clearing
6ft. 4in., and at Moree, last year, he jumped 6ft. Bin.—a
great perfoimance. It would be worth while fixing up a
turf spring-board, and trying Lady Morton and Playmate
from it. More than likely the Yankee faked records
would be badly beaten. The Yankee is not a sport; he is
a mechanical fake all the time.
* * * »
Racing in S. A. is looking up. The Jockey Club
has received 47 entries for the Adelaide Cup, and the
same number for the Goodwood Handicap, the total
being the best since 1903. The Onkapavinga Club, which
races on Easter Monday only, has sold by auction its
faTyean VC Sh ‘ lling “ ?ate * for £575-a big advance on
_ * * m m
arrpS^nf c^ c X efc a s had a real sensation in the
murder ph^ eStWlC X khe Derbyshire fast bowler, on a
Groundless ie??' Th ®’ Wldow of the deceased said that
sppmctlT Us ' v , a mania with her husband. He
slichtlvl (whom she only knew
found dlnd*^ 1 a knife > and m the morning he was himself
homo sniGin '• as s J lown fhat the cricketer staggered
his Jn ad r n ln J" le d that he at once proceeded to make
homieide >• coro " e . r ’ s jury called it “justifiable
, . , , ®) e qualities that make a man a successful
and tumble ma^6 an awk ward customer in a rough-
* * * *
Owing to the fact that the previous Saturday
was wet, the latest round of Sydney Grade cricket had to
pe played in one afternoon, and the result was that of
the six games played no less than four were drawn. The
victorious teams were Waverley, which beat Balmain bv
nve wickets and five runs on the first innings, and Cen-
tral Cumberland, which downed Glebe by four runs on
the first innings. The position at the top of the
competition list is.unaltered. Glebe has receded from
eight points to six, and Balmain has progressed the
wrong way, and is now five less than nothing. Central
Cumberland’s win leaves it still fifth on the list with four
points, and Waverley is now one whole point instead of
being one less than nothing. Paddington, as before, is
at the top with 11 points, and Gordon second with 10.
Burwood and Glebe follow with seven and six points re-
spectively. Among individual players Alphabetical
White, of North Sydney, did far and away the
best with the bat. He carried his weapon against
Paddington for 125. Next on the roll of honor was Victor
Trumper, who had made 98 for Paddington when he was
stumped by Coltnian off Clarke. A. J. Nicholls, of Red-
fern, made 91 against University before Harvey boa led
him. The most successful bowler of the day was Bowden,
of Glebe, who took five wickets for 33 runs. Payne, of
Central Cumberland, took five of Glebe’s for 41 ; Connelly,
of the same club, backed up Payne with three for 30.
But the most consistent bowler of the afternoon was Pitt,
of Gordon, who was responsible for the taking of seven of
Sydney’s wickets for 49. Gregg and Docker, of Burwood,
took three for 28 and four for 48 respectively against
Middle Harbor, and Cottier, of Glebe, knocked down
three of Central Cumberland’s stumps for 29.
* * * .
The latest development in the McLean-Johnson
upheaval is that McLean (now out of bed) will not
allow Johnson to fight Bill Smith, as the colored bruiser
intimated he would do. Johnson came to Australia
pledged to fight under McLean’s management, and
McLean has an agreement with Mr. Brennan, so he
says ; and he “ reckons ” that, under these circumstances,
Johnson’s name, as far as any fighting without his
consent is concerned, is just plain slush. Johnson’s view
of the position is not available at time of writing. Any-
how. he seems to be a whale for fighting of one sort and
another.
* * * *
“Suss”: I have seen many fights, and many
referees, but I have never seen a referee yet who did not
take notes at the end of each round, and I have never
seen one yet who didn’t do it badly. He never has a pro-
per notebook or a decent pencil. The paper most times
looks as though he had rushed to the nearest hoarding
and torn a hit off the corner of a poster. It is a ragged,
crumpled, dirty fragment about 25 inches by 1 5-lCth.
This his referee-ship carries hidden about him somewhere,
and at the end of the round he occupies 20 seconds
looking for it. Having found it, he takes 20 more
seconds to look for a chewed, deformed hunk of pencil.
Having found that, he furtively lurches into a corner of
the ring- where nobody can see, and scratches into the
palm of his left hand with the stub of pencil. This is
repeated at the end of every round. When the 20th is
reached, the 25 x 1 5-16 square inches of papers ought to
be covered on both sides with notes, and I’ve wondered
again and again how the referee was going to read them,
and how long he was going to take. But the curious
thing is that he never looks at them. He walks over and
declares someone the winner without consulting the
notes at all.
Apropos of that guff about the frozen
eminence on which judicial persons sit, the com-
plaint about one N.S.W. Judge is the warm
proximity he favors when sitting down in a tram.
He always makes a point of sitting as close as he
can to any pleasing girl, whether he knows her or
not.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report:—ln the
absence of auction sales there is little to chronicle in
wool. As usual at this period of the year, wool is coming
forward in very limited quantities, the hulk of the
supplies consisting of local scoureds and a few Queens-
land parcels, which are readily placed at values fully
equivalent to those ruling at the last auctions. The
next sales in this centre will be held during the week
commencing April 16th.*
The most interesting man in Australia
last week was Yarischetti, an Italian miner, who
was leading a cave-dwelling existence down
a mine at Bonnie Vale (W.A.). The mine
became flooded, and everybody escaped save
Yarischetti. He fled to the top of a stope,
and the compressed air kept the water back
and left him a fragment of condensed atmosphere
and a patch of unutterable blackness to live in,
By banging on the thin wall behind him, he
managed to draw the attention of explorers in
adjoining workings, and the management set
to work hard to pump out the mine. Also,
two immensely plucky professional divers
went down, and after a long, dangerous journey
under water reached the Italian with food, lights,
tobacco, and information. Likewise, fresh air
was pumped in to him. It is expected the
blackened hermit will be out about the time this
issue appears—unless the wall behind him starts
to leak and his precious little stock of compressed
air escapes. In that case, it is all up with Varis-
clietti. ■ '
HEADACHES.
One of the chief causes of headaches is the cir-
culation of poisons in the blood. Poisons are
constantly being formed in the body in the diges-
tion and absorption of food, but they produce no
ill effects, unless formed in excess. In indigestion,
the formation of these poisons takes place at an
enormous rate ; they pass through the system in
the circulating blood, and produce high blood
pressure and a sense of general ill-health, iirita-
bility of,temper, and headache, which only the
sufferer can realise the extent of. To overcome
headaches it is absolutely necessary to get at the
cause. Drugs which act on the heart and reduce
the pulsations only have a temporary effect. If
you suffer from indigestion, biliousness, constipa-
tion, any disorder of the liver and kidneys, or
from any weakness peculiar to your sex, there is
no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
Mrs. Johnson, of 397 Pyrmont-street, Pyrmont,
Sydney, states I wish to add my testimony
to the valuable properties of your pills. I have
always found them a most efficacious remedy for
headache and dizziness, and a most valuable
medicine for married women. lam convinced if
your pills were more universally adopted as a
family medicine there would be far less suffering.
I always recommend them, and use no other medi-
cine in my family.”*


KUGELMANN’S
&
<3
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
, Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets, If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St„ MELBOURNE & 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
THE BUeKJUMPER
.V TOY and A SCREAMINGLY
GAME & FUNNY
BETTER THAN
Only
V
One
POSTED
CIRCUS
Try to Seat the Rider on
the Horse and see the
Comical Positions
of the Man and
the Gee-Gee.
You Never Saw such
Antics In Your Life
GET ONE AND HAVE
, Shilling A GOODLAUGH
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Co.
299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
THE GOLDEN KING.
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
i do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
Bankers
Victoria and Royal Banks.
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “ The
King of Sport” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address t 44 Ktng of Sport/* Collins St*» Melbourne*
Subscribers
V
>v‘.r
m
1
PIANOLA o
PlAtiO 1
w
11/ml
The Piano of the Future
The New Pianola Piano is an upright piano of the highest
grade, with a Metrostyie Pianola inside its case „ It is in every
particular a perfect piano, and, in addition, contains within its
case a complete Metrostyie Pianola, the only Piano-playing
device endorsed by the greatest living musicians.
It can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the
usual way.
It can be played by means of a Pianola action within its case.
There is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the
method from hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide
back a panel in the front of the case, and insert a perforated roll of music.
There is no outward indication which catches the eye to distinguish the
Pianola Piano from the heretofore type of Pianoforte.
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog M.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO., 357 george st., Sydney.
185 Collins St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen St., Brisbane ; 38 King William St., Adelaide..
ROYAL
S
SHOW
Tues., March 26, to Wed., April 3, 1907.
900 Competing Horses. 850 Pedigree Cattle.
200 Stud Sheep. 1300 Birds.
Products of the Soil. Machinery in Motion.
Manufactures of the World.
Exciting Hunting Contests. Wonderful Trotting Exhibitions.
Greatest Parades of Horses and Cattle in the World.
EXCUB SION TRAINS FROM EVERYWHERE.
ADMISSION
SHOWGROUND GATES 15 MINUTES FROM THE CITY
BY SPECIAL TRAMS.
H. M. SOMER. Secretary.
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
EXPERT OPINION
w ON MIRACULUM
The Dunlop Rubber Co
of Australasia Ltd
Pebruary 19 th., 1907.
The Secretary,
Miraculum Co., M e 1 o o u r n «.
Dear Sir,
1 have thoroughly and severely tested the
sample of Miraculum supplied, and find It Is
perfect as a puncture stop, closing large holes
(made with a Knife and file handle) immediately
with the less of almost no air.
1 am convinced that Mlraoulun Is quits *ara«
less to rubber, rather helping to preserve it.
I also found that the sample stood unchanged,
st s host of 200° F., which temperature is not
likely to be reached' in a travelling Motor Tube.
Miraculum is easily washed -off with water*
and It does not lift patches which have been
properly applied.
fours faithfully*
Chemist to Dunlop
MIR API II lI M 's recognised by Cyclists and
"* * IlflO UliU HI Motorists as a Sure Puncture
Stop. All dealers, or at the charging depots:
MELBOURNE-266 Latrobe St.,
SYDNEY—ISB Castlereagh Street.
Bicycles, 4-/- (posted, with injector tin, Vic. and
N.S.W. 5/3, other States 5/8). Motor Cars from 30/-
7/
There is no part of your cyc-
ling experience which you
enjoy more thoroughly than
That Glorious
Coast,
and there is no period when
your safety is more depend-
ent on the efficiency of
your brake control, and the
reliability of the machine
you ride. The reliability
of the bicycle built from
Eadie Fittings
is beyond question, and the
efficiency of the brake con-
trol of the
EHDIE
COASTER
is such as to ensure your
safety under all conditions.
This is the coaster with
the simple brake—simple
in construction simply
applied, and its free-wheel
is absolutely frictionless.
[Ask your Dealer.]
Dept. A., EADIE M’F’C CO., Ld.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
Collins St., Melbourne.
Works: Reddltch, England.


WEDDING
QUALITY COUNTS FIRST in the selection of
Wedding Gifts. Perfect in taste, and of the newest
designs, combined with that enduring quality that
assures lifelong service. Our prices are the lowest con-
sistent with the quality.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed
A. , SAUNDERS.
4-CUP EGG FRAME and SPOONS,
pure Silver-plated, Gilt-lined Cups
and Spoons, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut
Glass, Bottles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, pure Silver-
plated. A 1 quality, Tinted or clear
Glass Tube, 15s 6d. Other Styles,
4s 3d, 5s 3d, 7s 9d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
PRESENTS.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.—Patrons will
find this book illustrated with helpful suggestions in
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and
Optical Goods. Write for a copy. We send it post free
on request. All goods sent carriage free to any address
in Australasia. Mail Orders receive prompt attention.
A. SATJNDEKS.
CALL BELL, pure Silver-
plated, solid Silver
Handle, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure Silver-plated, richly
and Engraved, hand finished,
size 9Jin x 9Jin, £2.
Other Styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s,
Embossed
50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE or BREAD SERVER, pure Silver-plated, Pearl
handle, 7in long, 12s 6d. Other styles,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated,
A 1 quality, richly embossed, Sheffield Steel Knife, 255,
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
SUGAR and CREAM SERVICE and 4 O’CLOCK TEA
SPOONS and TONGS, Solid Silver, handsomely
embossed, Gilt Lined, in Silk-lined Case, £4 15s
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s,, £4,105, £5, '£6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 quality, hand embossed, 3s Cd.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 0s Gd, 7s Cd, 8s Od, 10s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Bead design, highly burnished, llin, £2.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O’CLOCK CAKE PORKS, solid silver
handles, richly embossed,
in silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream.
Pure silver-plated on white metal, hand-engraved, gilt-lined, with covers £5
MADE EXPRESSLY FOR US BY JAS. DIXON AND SONS, SHEFFIELD*
Other Styles, £4 4s, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
£5.
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lunclrpon CRUET, pure sil-
crystsd glass bottles, 255.
cut crystal glass bottles, 255.
Other styles, 20s, 255, SOs, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure ' Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Amber
or Ruby tinted Glass, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR, Cut Glass, pure Silver
Mounts and Solid Silver Spoons, in
Case, 12s 6d, Other Styles,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, pure
Silver-plated, Nickel Silver, Satin
Glass Linin';, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 16s, 20s
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, pure Silver-plated, richly
engraved Butterfly desigh, highly bur
mshed 17s 6d. Other Styles,' 21s,
22s 6d, 255, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
MUSTARD POT and
SPOON, pure Silver
Mounted, fine Hobnail
CREAM JUG,, pure sil-
ver-plated, A 1 quality, gilt
lined, hand-engraved, 255.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s> 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and
TONGS, pure silver-
plated, gilt-lined,
10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver RATTLE and. WHISTLE, Xylonite Teething
Ring, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, pure
plated, pierced leaf base,
Other styles, 7s 6d, 9s 6d,
silver-
-6s 6d.
12s 6d.
Cut Glass, 7s 6d.
mi
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, hand-
embossed, crystal glass, I2s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 quality, fine hob-
nail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
: PRESENTATION INKSTANDS A SPECIALITY.
A. SAUNDERS. .
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
Servers, pure silver-plated on nickel silver, A 1 quality,
satin glass lining, £3.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A, SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, finest embossed shaded
china, pure silver-plated mounts and servers, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDE
( 809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
) opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S. W.


5-1- & v'.%
Blii*
‘W,< ••■< v- .t&f"*
A . «
*
.
•v\
• -W-W
- v >« v‘<!
: ■‘f -Wv
* | •'■ .' ■
mJ£
«1 • Ip
s &*>>'/** /:>\v ■-
,
V, «| '• V.,'" 1 -
«s
.
L
i§ss
.
< i<■ m , v *V'^u- \ v-'’ ’-• • •
’< •'v&W; V
r ;,r ■• .':
V
#, Ig ,‘i
;»,- * >v/
-.■•■,4-. ;
'
.i ;:
6 Sfjv
-
-'
llit^
■ ; •, ' -..
I 1
:> !- r.i*W
I '"** $4 fe'
. - J
@SK|t V-; ; .•:
ns
MB
5P
4v, '■
yfrn
dSm
ysmsemmuk
xmi
:r:
f*!mA
w§.
i .y-fc™it#’.‘
....
few;#
Sl«
< || W&», V! '
Hi
■m \
mmm
- y*t #»*& >’ , 7< ? 30™$S i
;.#■; ■ Jl
.. ..
'*v :■■>#■;■■::. '■
47
Mi
.*
(jmgms
: A '• ■
wm*. J,
•••
S&qjy-I
: .
i ikAf*
mm
s.”
'a OT
■
‘,/v ’.;
f - !
I
iV. ;s
•'C, Jr
1l
lii*
;
Wtt
'
■
X
: .
*H»4
~ 3l
.^r.
4*
mm
mm
ss@;
■-V.
>VA
\
_&r ■ ■■ ■ '■■■' :■> V',
%
'
mm
Kr ?!
■
: "ji
v vV,;
mm
w
. -1
••. . -
k
■
as
A
r/’
>\
N/
V
sfr-
>f x;' C:
ii
'- . '
■
............i
-i
mm 3:
• ,*.
i’vvftn
' ' V
S’ , t 1 * ■*
'
A Complete Turnout —yet how incomplete it
would be without a


COLUMBIA ‘ IFWFI ’
GRAPH-o-phone U!■ If
The MOST
POPULAR
TALKING
MACHINE
OF TO-DAY.
PRICE
£5
This is the
Instrument
THAT HAS
ATTRACTED
SO MUCH
ATTENTION.
Latest COLUMBIA PRODUCTION
Equipped with . . .
LATEST SPRING-CONTACT LYRIC REPRODUCER
ENCLOSED, TANDEfI SPRING MOTOR (Suspended).
Pure and absolutely firm tone. Surprising Volume. Runs 4 Records.
Can be wound while playing.
THE BEST £5 VALUE Obtainable
i CALL and SEE, HEAR, AND THOROUGHLY TEST IT.
Complete Set of Printed Matter, together with Lists of Records to
| use on THIS GRAPH-O-PHONE, mailed free on application.
Dept. B, COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO., Gen’l.
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
T- Torturing Twinge of
Rheumatism!
Did you ever feel the torturing twinge
of rheumatism ?
Then you don’t need to be urged to
purchase something that will actually
relieve and positively cure it.
the: O.tQJ.
ćx
Medical Battery
was devised for those suffering from
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, NERVOUS TROUBLES, &c.
Price
35/
Kee
We will send it anywhere post free
for 35/-, and refund money in any
case of dissatisfaction.
It is used by medical men all over the world, and is a sure cure—a
hundred times more effective than the finest and most expensive electric
belt ever made. It can be made weak enough for an infant or strong
enough for an adult. The case contains the battery and a number of
appliances to apply to the parts affected.
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd. <A:
•Sr.".' j* 393 CEORGE ST., E o?lSStel, SYDNEY.
PLUM RAZOR, 10/6 Post Free
Anywhere. •
Your Sore Face
will be sore no longer if you use a PLUM
RAZOR. We don’t care what sort of a razor
you are using—nor how much you paid for it
you will get better results with a PLUM.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George St., Sydney.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
!
wm.
Write for Price List
and Catalogues
to the Sole Agents,
LIPP PIANOS.
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability.
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free.
ALLAN & CO. PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
THE BLOCK, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
W. H. PALING & CO. LIMITED,
33» GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and at BRISBANE AND NEWCASTLE.


Public Notice.
AN APOLOGY.
20th March, 1907.
Dear Madam, —
I hereby desire to express my regret that I
should have inadvertently reflected upon you in
any way whatever with reference to your having
travelled in the same steamer with the Sultan of
Jahore.
I disclaim all intention of reflecting on your
reputation in any way, and I unreservedly apolo-
gise for any statements I have made reflecting on
your reputation, and I desire that this retraction
and apology be published.
Yours truly,
JAS. C. BARTLETT,
Spring Street, Port Melbourne.
Mrs. S. A. Serebrenikow,
Formerly Miss Queenie Strachan.
Witness —
J. Woolf, Solicitor,
Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In rise since 16G6.
sm mm
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, We.ik Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, klO, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
THE DEAF HEAR
DEAF persons need not despair. Out of the mass
of failures has come a genuine success. Head
noises are cured and deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really were
deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery, based
upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity,
that will' assist all persons suffering from Deafness,
fully described.
CDCC By sending name and address to THE
■ L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-
street, Sydney, you will receive a description of
this method, which will enable you to restore your
hearing at a very slight expense ; and you will be
delighted to learn how easily you can obtain relief.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Amusements.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
(The Coney Island of Australia).
WHERE FUN AND SENSATION NEVER CEASE.
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
MISS LENORE WHITE, “ The California Venus,” in
LIVING ART POSES.
EVERY NlGHT—California Venus, Jack Prendergast’s
Buekjunipers, Open-air Specialty Circus, King’s
Theatre of Varieties.
FUN-PRODUCING DEVI'CES UNENDING.
QREAT SUCCESS! BREAKING RECORDS!
POST MASON,
The Popular American Baritone and Company of Concert
Vaudeville Entertainers.
TOURING QUEENSLAND.
Bundaberg, March 28 and 29 ; Rockampton, March 30
to April 6 ; Mount Morgan, April 8 to 11.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
• Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
LAST NIGHTS of CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER.
KING and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
THE BICKNELLS. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe. Ventriloquial Humorist.
Mr. WILL LOCHRANE. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
LITTLE LILLY GRIMSHAW. Mr. HAROLD REEVES.
MISS FANNY POWERS. THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator.
SIGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing Dogs
and Monkey.
CASSIE WALMER, Song, and Dance Artist.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■* Lessee and Manager ~ Mr. J. C. Williamson.
A MEMORABLE AND BRILLIANT EVENT,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in the Great Romantic Symbolic
Mystery Plav, entitled,
PARSIFAL.
Miss BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Mr. TIIDS. KINGSTON as PARSIFAL.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EASTER SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 30,
Re-appearance of BLAND HOLT and his Popular
Dramatic Favorites in the Romantic Military Drama,
REVENGE.
Prices—3s., 25,, Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
CIVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
* WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to 11 p.m. &gr- ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
Amusements.
Theatre
Direction .
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
A
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of ROBIN HOOD.
Magnificent Reception nightly accorded to Mr.
JULIUS KNIGHT and J. 0. WILLIAMSON’S New
English Dramatic Company, in the Picturesque
Romantic Melodrama—
ROBIN HOOD.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDJEV'.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully select. <,
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Palii g .
R| T ERTon THE AT RE, SYDNEY
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr.-W. ANDERSON. '
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON has great pleasure m
announcing - that on
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT,
he will inaugurate a Dramatic Season at the CRITERION
THEATRE, when he will produce for the first tin e in
Sydney, the Romantic Domestic Drama,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
which will be interpreted by his Famous Dramatic
Organisation, headed by Australia’s Talented Emotional
Actress, MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
p ALA C E THEAT R E, SYDN E /.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming,
in the Great London Success,
MRS. GORRINGE’S NECKLACE.
A Oornedy in Four Acts, by Herbert Henry Davis.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at White Rose.
JESS I U MAC EACH LAN,
QUEEN OF SCOTTISH SONG,
ASSISTED BY
DOUGLAS YOUNG, Tenor.
JOHN M‘LINDEN, ’Cellist.
MURRAY GRAHAM, Pianist.
ROBERT BUCHANAN, Accompanist.
FIRST CONCERT, MARCH 30,
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is. ss. and 3s. Reserved.-
FREDERIC SHIPMAN, Manager.
WIRTH BROTHERS’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
GREAT TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
SECOND WEEK OF WIRTHS’ SEASON.
Australia’s Oldest, Grandest and Best Amusement
Institution. SEVEN HUGE SHOWS for ONE TICKET.
MATlNEES—Wednesdays, Saturdays, and Holidays.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Children Half-price except to
Gallery. Plans at Paling’s and Circus.
■J*HE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
OPENING—GOOD FRIDAY MATINEE AND NIGHT.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty,” and
THE BRESOIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Easter .Saturday and
Monday, and Every Wednesday and Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
Rosy CheeKs
Made by a good food.
A lady living in Acton, Wales, writes :
“ It is with both pleasure and gratitude I write to tell you of the
splendid results we have derived from Grape-Nuts. For years, almost
since childhood, have I sulfered from nerve troubles, neuralgia, etc.
Some months ago my husband persuaded me to give Grape-Nuts food a
trial. The first package I had I felt the benefit of, and since, needless
to say, I have never been without it, using it in many of the delightful
little receipts given with each package. These wonderful little receipts
prevent the monotony felt so often with other foods.
I sleep better, feeling refreshed in the morning, have gained
both flesh and rosy cheeks, lost my neuralgia, and generally speaking,
feel in the best of health. I feed my little girl with it also ; she, like
myself, suffered from anaemia, and was a constant worry and trouble to
me, but now I am delighted to say she is the picture of health.
I strongly recommend all mothers to use Grape-Nuts, and they can-
not fail m getting the happiest results, for it is certainly the most
palatable food I have ever tried for children, and they thrive wonder-
fully on it.” Name given by Postum Co., Battle Creek, Mich.
Grape-Nuts food is a certain rebuilder, for it contains the elements
necessary to renew the nerve and brain tissues. The starch in the
grains, from which it is made, is changed, in the manufacture, to a
form of sugar, and this renders it easy of digestion to invalids and
children, as well as those in the prime of health.
“There’s a Reason” for
Grape-Nuts
CROZINE
BLACKING
—the cleanly liquid blacking now so much the
fashion to use. It is the hitherto unattained
Fast. Black for Boots, a “Crozine
shine is a deep, brilliant and lasting black. It
is not affected by dampness, and does not smut
nor rub off on the clothing. The blacking and
the shine remain on the boots. Free from acids;
excellent for softening and preserving leather.
Sold where good boots are sold the world over.
Get the Genuine— Hauthaway’s.
Made only by
C. L. HAUTHaWAY & SONS, ClSj
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
John S. Deed & Sons, Ltd.
London, England.
Crozine did it.
J
[fine Mac
CROZIN
DID
IT
m
BOX CALF
r l IMliMffcSNl
iTHEI
BEAF
By using the Wilson Com.
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
k tressing head noises writ*
I for full particulars. Thon-
f sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress —Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins st., Melb.
is the great English
face cream you ought
to try.
If you would be freckle free
keep your complexion
through the hot Australian summer,
you must use Oatine. It will take the
grime that so; p and water cannot reach from
the pores, will keep jour skin fair and soft
and prevent it drying and cracking.
Oatine is pure, made from iresh clean
healing oats and free from mineral salts or
animal fats. No matter how hot the weather
it will not go bad. It does not grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Every Australian woman who values a
clear complexion should get Oatine now. It
is the only thing that will enable her to keep
her complexion permanently in the dry
Australian climate.
In dainty white jars 1/3 or large size (four
times the amount) 2/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a iar to-dav.
Medicator, atza
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also "consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
NIAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
A Fortune is Certain
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/« and postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by It. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Khodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money Return 3d If HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (.of London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA.
Private Address—Woodville, Mt. Albert.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
DRUNKENNESS.
WORTH KNOtt INQ WORLD-WM .
EUGRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in a cup of tea or coffee, or in
food, its presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so quietly,
and with such certainty, that the patient undergoes no
inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. If you mention this paper, we will send book of
particulars and samples of Eucrasy, free sealed.
Address : THE- EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
There was a tremendous exodus of public
men from Victoria last week. Talbot and his
lady. Bent and his daughter, and an Under-
Treasurer and a Secretary went on the Tuesday,
amid speeches, and band-playing, and waving of
the public hanky. Next day Tait and his cigar
vanished - in a cloud of smoke to pick up the boat
at Adelaide. Tait did not go unsung. All
along the route the railway men knew that he was
going, and as the inspection car went past they
lined up and cheered themselves hoarse. No
man’s departure from Victoria has ever been more
lustily cheered. No men ever seemed as glad to
see the last of any other man as the railway men
seemed when they saw the tail end of Tait fly
round the corner.
While the departed Governor Talbottle
was touring Victoria he had some experiences.
One of the best of them was up in the Deep Lead
district. He arrived late at night, but the mayor
and councillors and the upper 48 of the towns-
people were waiting, and the festive Corned beef
was laid in the town hall. The mayor stood him-
self on end and spoke briefly :
Your Excellency and Gentlemen, —We have 16 toasts
to get through, so I won’t trouble you with a speech
about the first. It is ’‘The King,’’ and I will contente
myself with remarking that he is a good king—one of th -
best—and if we were to dispense with his services to
morrow morning, he’d have another job before tea-time,
because the French would engage him to be their fresi-
sident. They know him, and are just waiting to snap
him up the first chance. So I ask you to be upstanding,
and drink the King, God bless him.
They drank it all right, and Reggie Talbot was
noticed to wipe tears from his eyes, he was so
much affected. Talbottle has an iron mouth that
never laughs unless he wants it to, but his eyes
are only meat.
!Lord William Nevill, charged with prac-
tising legerdemain in connection with jewellery,
has been committed to take his trial in the
beastly common, vulgar way ; he is said to be
directly descended from Warwick, the King-
Maker. Perhaps his youngsters, if he has any,
will be forced to admit that they are descended
from William the Stone-Breaker.
W. T. Carter, ex-Victorian M.L.A., who
died a few weeks ago in England, possessed a
faculty for thriving on his mistakes. About 25
years ago he was the Rev. W. T. Carter, Methodist
parson, who preached to the hairy and profane
sawyers and splitters of Wirrabarra Forest (S. A.).
There he made the mistake of interweaving with
his religious exhortations much of the local pro-
fanity of expression. He was summoned to
Adelaide to make a personal explanation,
hut he explained in such splendid sawing
and wood-chopping language that the board-
room smelled of sulphur for over a week
thereafter. Methodism then knew him no more
as a parson. Later he struck a Williamstown
(Vie.) audience of stevedores, lumpers, crimps,
sailors, fishermen, &c., with his sirocco of lan-
guage, and was enthusiastically elected their
M.L.A.
“Snell”: The Rev. G. A. Judkins, of
Bendigo (Vie.), little brother of W. H. Judkins,
of Melbourne, is a parson with an anxious eye
and a nervous manner, who is continually making
bids for notoriety. But he hasn’t the luck of
Brother Rill, and his rockets won’t soar. His
latest effort is a fervent denunciation of public
marriages for show purposes, as calculated to
degrade the bond and to make a sort of serio-
comic turn of the sacred ceremony. This out-
burst is inspired by an exhibition marriage, to
take place in connection with the Bendigo Easter
Fair. However, marriage is a purely secular
affair here, and nobody need put religious
frills on unless so disposed ; consequently the
impression is that Pastor Judkins would be
better employed lifting up his howl against the
expensive, be-spangled swagger wedding, stage-
managed in a decorated cathedral, that draws a
fighting, tearing crowd into the alleged sacred
edifice, and is worked off like a sensation act in
a bad melodrama. The latter excitement is sup-
posed to be a holy function, while the wedding, as a
side show at a fair, is a mere let-us-be-joyful pagan
kick-up, but the reverend sky-terrier overlooks
the flash, expensive irreverence, and barks his
small head off at the little brown incident. The
Easter Fair wedding may be a vulgar show, hut
I’ve seen weddings at the Cathedral in Melbourne
that were a whole circus, clown, bounders, mena-
gerie, and all.


Lbpies’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience, •;
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAI & CO,
Ladies’ Tailors*
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
VIGOR
No Woman A
should be .
Weak and .
Sick . . .
§i
VITALITY
No Man
need be
run-down
and
Debilitated*
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S Electric Belt
Is not only itself guaranteed, but it is guaranteed to cure in every case undertaken by us. With each case deemed by
us as curable, and accepted as such, we give a written guarantee to refund the money paid us if the Belt fails to cure as agreed
when we accept the case. No other medical institution ever made such an offer to its patients—we can do so. Because we know
our appliance and know our Specialists’ ability and their desire to promise only what they know they can fulfil.
No other remedy is like Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt. It fills the nerves and tissues with new life and energy, and
adds new strength to the system with each day’s use. Remember we take all the risk once we accept the case as curable. Our
remedy is a certain one and a natural cure _ for Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago, WeaK Bacß,
Nervousness, Constipation, Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Insomnia, Varicocele, Rupture,
and all Liver, Kidney, Bladder and Stomach Troubles.
It is the only rational and natural cure for Sciatica (it elongates the sciatic nerve) and all Chronic Blood and Nerve
Complaints. Worn while you sleep it pumps new life and vigor into your body for hours at a time, and cures —to stay cured.
Cures Prove the Value of our Assertions.
READ THIS LETTER.
A FIRST-CLASS REMEDY.
SHEPHERDS TOWN, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —I always take great pleasure in recom'
mending Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, as it has
proved itself to be all you claimed it. It has done
me a lot of good, and I have not been laid up since I
first began its use. It certainly ranks ahead of every-
thing else as a first-class remedy for general nerve
and organic complaints when your instructions are
carried out. lam sure that any sufferer cannot go
wrong by obtaining one of your Belts.
Yours faithfully,
J. DOOLEY.
Send Us This Coupon for Our FREE HEALTH BOOK.
FREE BOOK.
On receipt of
this Coupon
we will send you one
of our Grand Illustrated Books, which contains full
information about our Belt, and much valuable and
interesting information for suffering men and women.
. ..... CALL. if possible, and consult our
Specialist. His Professional Advice is absolutely
FREE, and he will tell j’ou candidly whether
our Belt will cure you or not. Hours—9 to 5.30.
The Dr. McLaughlin 00. ° AR *
Dear Sira,—Please send me your Free Book.
• \Z\. M O
Name .
Address i
, ioi Jt-v;
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
MAIN ENTRANCE IN CASTLEREAGH ST.
100 W. Market St.,
Sydney.
I CHARLES CRAWFORD
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
ITow to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Datk Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handvbook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All Tiie Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads,, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, II s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ft
1
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Alagic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. . Speeches and Toassts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMRRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS I'REE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
i a . re devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning' mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. . It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mao-
fa bdex’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. On Odr New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying? more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, m®- Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
4
Write for my
Dig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE QF. ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 8s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s .Romances,
2s. Ingbrso|,l’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s. 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Sons
Book, over 300 latest songs, is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Safpho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Cockle’s
ibilious
•' I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. lnva.lua.blo to every Mother of a family*
J'ije Xaqcet describes it as —
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
2 'Jje British jVtedical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
COLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
» nd the AGED.
Benqer’s fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.
“Relay”: T’other day a sun-baked
citizen, straight from Jewburg (Africa), entered
my railway carriage on his way from the boat.
He had arrived that morning, together with 58 car-
penters and bricklayers, all bound for Australia.
He expressed, in no measured terms, a general
despair of S’Africa under the present system.
Property depreciated about 60 per cent, during
last year, and citizens are flocking to the coast.
Outgoing steamers get what labor they need
free if they will take the workers away ; anybody
will work free to get away. Many families
can’t even get away. My stranger remarked on
the prosperous look of Melbourne, and was
pleasantly amazed at the beautiful lack of dark
skins. He said, “ I’m blanky well sure no one
knows what a good blanky wicket they’re on
here till they get a taste of some other blanky
place,” and alluded flatteringly to Australia’s
horse-sense, as evidenced in the White Australia
and contract-labor policies. Australians of the S.
Fish variety would do well to come personally
into contact with a few of this kind of person.
Dear Bulletin. —l am not a church-going
man—one has so little time to spare when mooch-
ing about. But once was compelled, while in a
Victorian Benevolent Asylum’s hospital-ward, to
listen, five times per week, to various clerics:
Sunday, Baptists; Monday night. Salvation
Army; Wednesday, Oongregationalists; Thurs-
day, C.E. Missionaries, &c. All these good
people begged God, in their prayers, to give us
POOR PEOPLE STRENGTH TO BEAR OUR TROUBLES
AND STAND OUR PAINS, AND PREPARE US FOR
Eternity. Not once during the whole seven
weeks I was there did one pray to God to ease our
pain, relieve our sufferings, or cure us, and then
alleviate our poverty with the solid cash that is
of no use to Him, but of so much use to us. Oh,
religion, what sins are committed in thy name !
Mooch About.


Brushed Scales from Face Like Pow-
der— Under Physicians’ Care Six
Months But Grew Worse—Some
Said Face Would Be Marked for
Life—Now Without a Blemish.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
WORK WONDERS
“As I was a sufferer with eczema
I write to tell you what a great friend
I found in Cuticura Remedies. In
w»),
six months I had
tried three doctors,
but did not get any
better. It was on
my body and on my
feet so thick that
I could hardly put
a pin on-me with-
out touching ec-
zema. My face was
covered, my eyebrows came out, and
then it got in my eye. I then went to
another doctor. He asked me what
I was taking for it, and I told him
Cuticura. He said that was a very
good thing, but that he thought that
my face would be marked for life. But
Cuticura did its work and my face is
now just as clear as it ever was.
“My brother-in-law told me about
the wonderful Cuticura Remedies.
I took his advice and got the Ointment,
Soap, and Resolvent. I washed with
the Cuticura Soap and then applied
the Ointment, and took the Cuticura
Resolvent as directed. In a short
time my face began to get better, and
when I had taken one bottle of
Resolvent I could brush the scales
off my face like a powder. When I
had tafeen four bottles my face was as
clear as ever. I feel so thankful
I want everybody far and wide to
know what Cuticura can do. It is a
sure cure for eczema. Mrs. Emma
White, Camden, N. J., April 25, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drftg-A Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns,& Co., Merchants, Sydney, N.S.W.
Complete External and Internal treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to
Age, consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and
Resolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be
had of all druggists. A single set often cures. Potter
X)rug& Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U.S. A.
Mailed Free, 44 How to Cure Eczema.”
Address R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
&
When buying
Lime Juice
Buy the Best.
The best Lime Juice Cordial is
Montserrat
made from cultivated limes.
“MONTSERRAT” is always
fresh and pleasant to the
taste, and mixed with water,
soda water, or other aerated
waters it makes a cooling,
refreshing, and healthful drink.
1 Montserrat” is sold by all Chemists, Grocers, etc
IS THE
UnderwooD
Cold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1905
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITING. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE DITCX }
TYPEWRITER 1511,31 *
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT for its STERLING QUALITIES.
FILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS: Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
105,000
The WaybacK Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, 1s
BEWARE OF
CONSTIPATION
It
Poisons
your
Blood
Constipation is one of the most dangerous of
common ailments. It poisons your blood with
impurities drawn from the stagnant matter in
your bowels ; you become dull and sleepy, you
have frequent headaches, piles, and often
offensive breath. Anaemia follows, or obstinate
skin diseases, and sometimes the kidneys break
down, leading on to rheumatism and uric acid
troubles. Mother Seigel’s Syrup regulates your
bowels, renders constipation impossible, and
cleanses your system of impurities.
“ For many years I was a great sufferer from
indigestion and constipation and became so
bad that I had to give up work. I had medi-
cine from various doctors and tried all sorts
of things, without relief, But Mother Seigel’s
Syrup completely cured me." —Frofn Mr.
George Lee, 2, Balmoral St., South Mel-
bourne, Victoria. July 7th , 1906.
Fosters
c
riTPFQ
CONSTIPATION
SYRUP
CURES
INDIGESTION.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU OF ITS WORTH.
This Very Fine
Gent’s Lace
Balmoral for lU]v}
In box calf, glace kid and patent leather—all at
the one price. You’ll find no bootln Australia
I give better satisfaction at the price. Welted
soles —in this and all the newest shapes.
Higher grades at higher prices.
Post 7l ge Charges— When remitting add these charges to cover
■»' postage — Victoria, 1/-; other States, 1/6.
SEND FOB THIS FREE BOOK. —We have a booklet called “ Shoelight”
that illustrates and describes all our footwear for man, woman
and child. We post it free anywhere—write for it.
LEEMINC’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne,
And at VIC.
1 (& 3 Errol St., Nth. Melbourne,
303 Chapel St., Prahran.
1
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says: m
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average Dose,
A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
NntP the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
L of the Label.
a
•A'
i '
<
#IJ
ion* •
! s \| ;
GOLD MEDAL. PARIS. igOO. *
L GRAND PRIX. ST LOU IS. IOOt
m, ' .. ‘
OF ALL CHEMISTS
|L &,PERFUMERS
~~ rrr'
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Storekeepers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney*
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
The Electric Light Department op the
Sydney City Council:—
Sinking Deficit,
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Loss. biition. off. Fund.
£4794
1904 .. £1921 £1767 6715
IQnr . J 661 ,2044' £1404 S7SO
lauo -j L oan Flotation Expenses, £787 9567
Profit.
iooe J 8648 3349 1400 2319
lauo .. -j jj ej . p ro u(; on Loan Flotation, £357 1962
As a matter of fact, the loss on the undertaking in
1 1)04 was £3688 ; hut, as the City Fund had to make
good the required contribution to the Sinking Fund,
and as the 1904 balance-sheet showed no liability
to the City Fund on that account, it isn’t easy
to represent matters in any other way than the
foregoing. Actually, then, the amounts shown as written
off during the last two years are amounts advanced in
the early period. So far three statements have been
issued by the department, and the form of each has been
different. This makes it difficult to follow the
transactions. The latest accounts are certainly in
the, best form. But even they are capable of improve
ment. In 1905, for instance, certain goodwill items—
loan flotation expenses, preliminary expenses, &c.—
totalled £5OlO. This year the items are not the Same ;
but, apparently, while a.profit of £lOOO has been made on
loan flotations, a further £643 has gone' in expenses.
These things, however, are not clear, but are a matter
only of computation. Of the profit, £8485 has come from
tne undertaking itself, and £163 from interest on thfe
sinking fund, which now amounts to £7160. The whole
position may be put as follows :
Deficit, profit and loss account .. £9552
Goodwill, paper assets .. .. ;. 4340
Total deficit £13,892
LeSs Sinking fund .. .. £<l69
Depreciation account .. .. 4770
11,930
Net Deficit*.' 5 £1,962
• l 4
The actual results of the business are perhaps
best shown this way :
Woiking Net
Revefuje. Expenses. Revenue. Interest. Loss.
1904 .. £4,061 £6,313 £2,436 £3688’
1905 .. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906 .. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
Compare the last column here with the loss or profit
shown in the first table. In the first year the difference
is accounted for by the contribution from the city
treasury, now being repaid ; in the following years the
difference is represented by the interest earned by the
sinking fund investments.
Of the reserves shown above, along with
the sinking fund, £4770 is depreciation account. As
nothing else is provided out of revenue to cover
depreciation, this is not a genuine reserve, but a mere
set-off against actual wear and tear. This £477o—the
first amount ever provided—is at the rate of about 2 p.c.
on the average amount invested during the year. The
question is whether that is enough. The Melbourne
undertaking, which used to proyide 2 p.c., finds it
necessary from time to tiriie to make special
provision ; last year it brought the total written
off for the 12 months to p.c. ThCre seems
to be an idea that when an undertaking has
a sinking fund it needn’t worry much about anything
else. But a sinking fund will simply pay Cohen off ; it
won’t replace the works when they are worn out. The
capital in the fixed assets of the undertaking is now
£280,464, and in stores, &c., about £20,000; the out-
standing loans are £310,000. Taking the average capital
for the year at £265,000, the profit, after paying interest,
was at the rate of £3 ss. 3d. percent., available to provide
for sinking fund and depreciation. It is none too much ;
but the improvement is most marked, and, anyway, for a
great concern which has not yet completed its third
year, the result can only be regarded as satisfactory. The
value of future reports would be added to if the charge
for light and power were mentioned, along with any
variations since the business started.
The sooner two or three items are wiped out
of the Sydney Electric Light accounts the more
respectable they will look. Some £lOOO or more has been
paid as damages in connection with installations; and
“Damages” appears as an asset, to be wiped off in 1C
years ; and “preliminary expenses” are to be wiped off
in 25 years. These and others are such hilarious “ assets ”
that the City Council can’t wipe them out too soon.
The joke will be much too venerable 23 years from now.
• * * »
The Adelaide Co-qperative Society
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Feb., 1902.. About 8 p.c. ==£2332 £384 £I6OC
Aug., 1902.. £2511 „ 8 „ „ 2351 308 1452
Feb., 1903.. 2427 ~ 7f „,, £lBl 329 1369
Aug., 1903.. 2286 ~ 7-j „ „ 2179 242 1234
Feb., 1904.. 2433 „ 7f „ „ 2152 254 1261
Aug., 1904.. 2529 „ 7J „ „ 2104 364 1322
Feb., 1905.. 2680 ~ 7f ~ „ 2208 299 1495
Aug., 1905.. 2399 „ 8 „ „ 2311 ’251 1332
Feb., 1906.. 3128 „ 8 ~ „ 2349 523 15S8
Aug., 1906.. 3150 „.8 f „ „ 2405 423 1910
Feb., 1906 \ 2 975 g 2400 2 '2 2203
approx. J ” ’
This society has not yet presented its accounts in an
intelligible form. You never know how one half-year
really turned out till the next half-year’s accounts are
issued, for “ fees to committee and auditors " are not
charged to profit and loss, but hung up«for six months
and then shown in the appropriations. The society has
a capital account and a loan account. It is stated that
the interest on members’ capital is at the rate,of 4 per
cent, per annum ; also, it is understood that, so far, loans
have carried 4 per cent. Yet the figures in the appro
priation account can’t be made to correspond With any
published figures as to either capital or loans, and what
the “ dividend ” means in the appropriation account it is
impossible to tell. It may even be some sort of bonus oi
discount on members’ cash purchases. The sqdiety has
got into an absurd style of boolf-keeping and tpe use of
expressions that are confusing. No doubt it is all per-
fectly clear to the men, mostly genuine philanthropists,
who run the society, and have been connected with it for
more years than some of them care to remember. But to
the outsider the thing involves guesswork. The society
is r'w entirely free from debt except to its own mem-
ber., who can “ pull out” at any time ; and it is at last
making a pretty good showing in regard to a reserve
fund, of which it was so inexplicably shy for years. In
fact, the only thing about it at which the word of reproach
can be thrown is the antediluvian form of the published
accounts.
* * • 0
Murchison Associated, Day Dawn (W.A.), after
working 12 years, and suffering 11 reconstructions of a
more or less virulent character, is still hopefully viewed
by the Board as a twin of the Great Fingall. Already
over £120,000 of Bull’s money has been spent on the
mine, or in the office, but nothing except an occasional
small crushing has resulted. The lowest level is at 800 ft.,
but no gold shoot has been got below 300 ft., although
nearly 45Cft. have been driven north at the bottom level.
Shareholders are assured that the reef which is being
worked is the Great Fingall reef, but are not told that
the Fingall reef splits coming north, and is practically
worthless beyond the split, which is 600 ft. north of the
Fingall shaft, and 1£ mile south of the Murchison
Associated.
• * * •
The directors of Queensland Exploration, Ltd.,
of Cloncurry, are F. O. D. Haggard (brother of Rider
Hago-ard—there are tremendous numbers of people in
England who have brothers), Lord Ernest Hamilton, and
A B Dealtry, with a Queensland advisory board, and
the everlasting Burns, Philp and Co. are the managers
The co is entitled, says the prospectus, to half the pro
ceeds of the freehol surface rights. Who gets the other
half? Also, a royalty payable to the British Colonial
Railways Co. is mentioned and notspecified. The English
Companies Acts are very stringent as to disclosures of
agreements ; how comes it that agreements as to “ sur-
face rights” and “ royalties ’’are merely hinted at?


THE
Is Calling
///
r
‘if:
m
w>
......
% ’
Vv
n
i
& i ?
•w
SdMi
/A /
• * ", V/
* „ J </.
•’ " > #
A <*f J
"
: W
*M'<A
EK Ausikaua
b GIBBS, BRIGHT &C?
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
cnmmL street, a® queen street azpnrsimr. eagle street
E>. <O. A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-ber f th cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, <&c.,
forwarded to any address on application.
,Ulll((
m
r
111
m
An IMPROMPTU
DANCE
is a splendid way of spending- tb.
long Winter evenings, and the . .
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
solves the entertainment problem.
' , The music is quite loud enough for dancing', the time is perfect, and this
wonderful reproducer never gets tired. It will play on and on for hours, just as
long as you care to dance. Between the dances you can have classical music
or rag-time, songs or marches, orchestral pieces, or funny stories. It has
something for al}—young and old.
Don’t confuse the music of the genuine Edison Phonograph with the dis-
tressing noises of inferior imitations.
As „ k us f° r the name of your nearest dealer where you can hear the genuine
Edison, free of charge.
. , We have just published a new book, entitled: “Making Records at Home
with an Edison Phonograph,” that you would like to have. We will send a copy,
post free, if you fall in and mail us this Coupon.
The National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent St., Sydney.
Please send a copy of the hook, ''''Making Records at
Home with an Edison Phonograph,” post free, to—
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 34Q KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
LIVER TORPOR aid BILIOUS HEADACHES
Removed At Once.
BRITISH VICE-CONSUL
WRITES :
“ British Vice-Consulate, Tarragona.
“ March 12th, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using Kutnow’s
Powder, and find same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised to do.—l re-
main, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES, British Vice-Consul.”
RICHARD WARNER, ESQ.,
WRITES :
“Grenada Lodge, Stockwell Park Road, S.W,,
“July 12th, 1906.
“Gentlemen, —I have much pleasure in testi-
fying to the efficacy of your Kutnow’s Powder,
which I have taken for some considerable time,
and derived a great deal of benefit from it. I
have been a great sufferer from biliousness and
gastritis, and am only too pleased to give you
this acknowledgement.
“RICHARD WARNER.”
NURSE A. WHUR
WRITES :
“ 2 Ethelbert Road, Birchington Bay,
“August 14th.
“Gentlemen, —Thank you for the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder; for years I have suffered
from severe headaches, and have tried almost
every medicine, without doing me the least
good ; your Powder, I am thankful to say, has
been most efficacious. Several members of the
household have tried it with the same results.
“A. WHUR (Nurse).”
REV. A. LEES
WRITES :
“ Whorlton Vicarage, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
“July 2nd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs,—l have tried Kutnow’s Powder
and found it highly satisfactory, so much so
that I shall recommend it to my friends.—l re-
main, yours truly, “ (Rev.) A. LEES.”
AND! DATES FOR HEALTH must first of all recognise the paramount
influence of the liver ; it is the organ which holds the key of life and
death. It regulates the whole mechanism of the human frame ; it is
KUTfIOW’S i
’ROVfO Eff'HvEECEM CARLSBAD
POWDER.
Hirseheni/prung o' Deer Leap
I nrrKTrol'h*™ 1 } 000 * 4 MWuLc
t—t REGISTERED TPAnF mao m
(fcNTERED AT STATIONER'S HALL>\
only when the liver acts properly that all the other
organs—the kidneys, bladder, stomach, and intes-
tines—work efficiently, and there is general good
health. The liver, furthermore, exercises a still
higher function than that of mere mechanism. It
produces great moral effects in the influence it
exercises on the temperament; an active liver
creates brilliancy, energy, shrewdness, keen intel-
lect, and many other excellent qualities. Reverse
the picture and see the irritable, nervous, fidgety,
and morbidly despondent individual. In despair,
the victim of liver torpor will sometimes endeavor
to thfasli it into temporary activity by drastic
medicines. This is useless. The proper remedy
for a disordered liver is a course of Kutnow’s
Powder, which is always safe, sure, and efficient.
How to Avoid Fraudulent Imitations.
The Gemline and Original Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the world. See that the-fac-simile signature, “S.
Kutnow and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade-mark, “ Hirschensprung, or
Deer Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations,
and know
i . i y,. ■■
How to Get Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
A GENERAL IN H.M. ARMY
WRITES :
“104 Seymour Place, London, W M
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure in stating
that I have derived very much benefit from
Kutnow’s Powder, and, after taking four
bottles, am completely cured of abscess on liver,
contracted after a residence in an Eastern cli-
mate of twenty years. I now take a dose once
or twice weekly, and would not be without a
bottle.—l am, dear sirs, yours truly,
“ C. ANDERSON (General Retired).”
REV. J. M. DRYERRE, U. 8.,
WRITES :
“ Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset,
“ November 9th, 1906.
“ Gentlemen, —It may be of some interest to
you to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder
from time to time with most excellent results,
and I consider it only fair to acquaint you of
the benefit I have experienced from so useful a
remedy, which fully carries out what it is
advertised to do.
“(Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., F.R.G.S.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your
publishing my testimony concerning the excel-
lent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only
wish I had tried it years ago. In my case it has
proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient,
cleansing the liver and kidneys, relieving the
brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort,
and regulating generally the wiiole organic
system. I have much confidence in recommend-
ing its use to my friends.—Yours truly,
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 FARRINCDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
[l-7J


tMestConsoler
is a
\^XUL^\
j Briar Pipe, j
« Obtainable !
j from all Tobacconists}
xc
Compulsory Winding-up of tho Insolvent
Stock In the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib,left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. • £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedgefastcross-bolt,left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel- Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
lOO.vds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price I. .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price £2 16 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d.,per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable,to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
r PLASMON 12
COCOA K
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment
than ordinary Cocoa.
PLASMON OATS
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of Husfe and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment
with easy coohing.
PLASMON ;
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
AsK lor them.
I
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORE i.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
t. W.w. GREENER’S
.Greener treble-wedce-fast
HITiEY,.. V I he Strongest Gun in the
CttXINS World and the best Shooting
" ..rVr For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
ARE son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne;or
KKOW. TO IAST. ~
lli
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS ..
In Whipcords and
Saddle Twists.
25/- ; 32/6
RIDING BREECHES . ..
Whipcords and
Saddle Twists,
32/6 to 50/-
Garbardines surd Twillettes
32/6 to 45/-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated,
Design No. HO,
50/- to 75/-
FLY or SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED or BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES,
cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
Smartest Knickers Worn.
Specially Designed for PERFECT
FREEDOM in WALKING, FISHING,
SHOOTING, GOLFING, MOTORING,
xc
xcx
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.—A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED
300-310 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
TAILORS anti
BREECHES MAKERS,
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Oastlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*! TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and alLaccessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
■o
cx
3?
| (<i v .
V\ X 4
ir .fr *V
' | >
M Repeater w
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand first
in popularity, records and shooting
qualities. Always use them
for Field or Tra|) Shoot mg.
Ask Your Dealer For Them.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
WeakJMen aIFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure tlie Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Cost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DespaiF
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43s 6*d
BLOOD CURE PILLS. pious Blood and Skin Diseases^
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special 43 0
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women SpSf poweXTDSub!e I Bourse 6 lbs C 6 0 d PBeS, 23/6 *
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes. 6s Course 23/B
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE •
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE t
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z
■ HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
76
7/6
/
V/no A*/,.A
'T'HIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper i'f you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—rhas a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLING, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
which your
hair grows
in. The
abundance
of your
tut sat*
hair depends upon the fertility
of its soil. Nourish your scalp.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
feeds the scalp tissues which
supply the hair-growing power
to your hair. Tri-coph-erous is
a scalp food. It removes the
cause of baldness by building up
the wasted scalp. Be sure you
get Barry’s.
Reuter’s Soap cures pimples
I CURE FITS.
What I think of my remedy for Fits
doesn't so much matter; what you think
of it is much more important-therefore
I will give you a bottle of it to try before
buying any. It speaks for itself! I guar-
antee it to be the best and safest remedy
for Fits yet found. I have given away
over 70,000 bottles of it during the past
20 years, and have testimonials of cures
from all over the World If you, or your
people, care for restful nights and health-
ful days you will do well to
TRY IT.
A simple and safe remedy-approved by
the Medical profession.
Prepared only by H. Q. ROOT,
45, Museum St., Bloomsbury, London,
England. ,
Send If- to pay parcel post to the Colonies.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4/6
»nd 11/-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OF ALL CHEMISTS STORES, ETC.
WHOLESALE AGENTS'.
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-:
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities, Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me,
ADDRESS !
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON’, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Ranking, Public Companies, &c.
™Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th J une, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 55,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Oallan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O. j
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of neui Z ea,an ' l -
- BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VICTORIA — Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES,
comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and
card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail Trick, The Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character), the Joker’s
Love Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic
Caricatures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
XH, L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
New York Novelty Co., 710 George St„ Sydney.
ON THE HOP !—3no of “ Hop’s ” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
Shipping.
]xr. XD. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•'Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving; MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. ... 7th MAY.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Royal Rank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
cx
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIO, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 9tb APRIL,
AERIO, STJEVIO, PERSIC and
RUNIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban
London
New York, &c.
£l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY : '
MORAVIAN
*MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
A. Simpson .. I Noon, April 26
N. Allan .. .. I Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, June 21
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
Prom £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
London
Cape or Durban
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
/ HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G.)>
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
$ >'k
m
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated ’Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passenerers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World, SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOTJLDER LINE STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Froxen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,950
OVJNGDEAN GRANGE 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
BANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
ELSTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,770
Steamer. Tons*
BEACON GRANGE .. .. 6,770
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE .. 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
THORPE GRANGE .. .. 6,380
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS .. .. .. 7,420
First Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the ©FFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SIDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenoa
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME I
34 Days to Auckland 8J Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to ’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 28,1p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA, Twin-screw, sails APRIL 8,1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
&
w
$
Free
Accident
Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.A7V.
|Dontdepieteo.t«!.Co.,lit(l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Trice is. post free from this office.*
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
ACROSS THE PACIFIC
TO VANCOUVER.
Thence by Rail to any part of CANADA or
UNITED STATES.
THE BEST ROUTE TO EUROPE.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th.
FOLLOWING SAILINGS—
May 13, June 10, July 8.
tfgT Send for Illustrated Pamphlets.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
OCEAIN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimvvade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.f1.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Gollins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
IIESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. 11. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Prate, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LA.NG Assistant Manager.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE, ,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for;
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
April 3.
S.S. Yongala, Wednesday,
April 17.
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. 'I
BRISBANE,
MACKAY, |
TOWNSVILLE, J
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, March 30.
S.S. Warrego, April 6.
Best and Cheapest Iloute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ABE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing,theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH, Acting Principal Agent
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBIMS,
Jueen’B Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, 4-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
xc
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIM POLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week. .
Henry Skinner,
CJlarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Voigtlander's Cameras
are the most suitable for Tropical Climates. They
resist heat and damp.
çx
Folding
Metal
Cameras
are perfect.
Fitted with
Focal Plane
Shutters.
Folding Stays
make their Sol-
idity extraordi-
nary.
They embody
Efficiency with
Lightness.
VOICTLANDER LENSES.— “ Oollinear," “ Helliar,”
“Dynar.” Made by the oldest Optical House m the
World. These Lenses are the result of a Century s
Concentrated Skill.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick,
Sole Australian Agents—
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd., 386 George St., Sydney,
and 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet: “ Talking with Taylor
(on Lenses, Cameras, &c., Post Free.)


BrUisb=flustralasian
i*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the.world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
DIRECTOR - •
- - J. E. 80AHTLE3URY.
THE BALLET GIRL
cx
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions ol a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0. , SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So dby all Chemists.
Free! Free!
To fhi Sick and
Ailing Everywhere
THE CURE FOR YOUR DISEASE
Delivered Frea— Free for the
Asking—Free to You.
Q? 0 the sick—the suffering—to every man and
r
woman victim of
organic disease-
local trouble or
broken general
health—Dr. Kidd’s
offer of free treat-
ment is given in the
absolute faith and
sincere belief that
they can and will
stop disease, cure
it and lift you up
again to health and
vigor. There is no
reason why you
should not get well
if you will only
bring yourself to
take the free test
treatment of these
wonderful rem-
edies, no matter
what your doubts
may be.
I Want the Doubters
I want to give them the proof—the evidence
and the glory of new life in their own bodies—
and I want to pay the cost of this proof-all of
it—to the very last cent—myself.
I have put my life into this work —I hold the
record of thousands of cures—not “ some better ”
—but thousands of desperate sufferers, hearty
and strong and big and well; and their letters
are in my hands to prove every word I say,
Rheumatism, kidney troubles, heart disease,
partial paralysis, bladder troubles, stomach and
bowel troubles, piles, catarrh, bronchitis, weak
lungs, asthma, chronic coughs, nervousness, all
female troubles, lumbago, skin diseases, scrofula,
impure blood, general debility, oiganic vital ail-
ments, etc., are cured to remain and continue
cured.
No matter how you are, no matter what your
disease, I will have the remedies sent to you and
given into your own hands free, paid for by me
and delivered at my own cost.
These Remedies Will Cure „
They have cured thousands of cases—nearly
every disease—and they do cure and there is no
reason why they should not cure you —make you
well—and bring you back to health and the joy
of living!
Will you let me do this for you—will you let
me prove it—brother and sister sufferers? Are
you willing to trust a master physician who not
only makes this offer but publishes it and then
sends the test and proof of his remedies without
a penny of cost to anyone except himself ?
Send your name, your Post Office address and
a description of your condition, and I will do my
utmost to satisfy every doubt you have or can
have that these remedies will save your life and
make it all that nature meant to make it.
Let me make you well. Give me your name
and tell me how you feel, and the proof treat-
ment is yours at my cost. No bills of any kind-
no papers—nothing but my absolute good-will
and good faith.
DR. JAMES W. KIDD,
Box 506, FORT WAINi!, IND.
NOTE.—Dr. Kidd’s methods and his offer
are exactly as represented in every respect.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS _ MONET TO LEND Cityfor Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock ®r treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CUhRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repay ing
up to 20 per cent., of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any tine.
Directors — The Hon.
Short, Esq. ; James ]
Manager i
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
cx
, Will stop the most
1 vicious do" (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The “Joker” Trick Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
amaze-
ment o f
cx
your friends, upon re-opening the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Box. Post free
anywhere for 1/-. Write for Price List B.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
Box 3, P.O. HAY MARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Joker Cigar Case.
xc
A great joke on Cadgers. On removing the lid,
four cigars, which appear to be quite genuine, are
shown. Invite jour friend to have a which
offer he readily accepts, and immediately he
attempts to help himself a slight pressure of the
button causes the cigars to spring out and the
figure-head to appear in their place, giving your
friend a great surprise. Creates lots of amuse-
ment. Strongly and neatly made. Price, packed
securely and posted free to any part of the world,
on receipt of if/2.
The Squirt
Camera.
One of the most
amusing jokes to be found
in bur varied stock. Only
clean water required for
working, and it can be used
as often as the operator
chooses, free of cost. Ask
one of your friends would
he like his photo, taken,
xc
and, when he accepts, request him to put on his best smile and
look straight at the camera. Then withdraw the slide at back
of camera, and when your victim is quite still press the ball
inside the camera, and your friend gets the greatest shock
he ever had in his life. Strongly made of wood, with strong
self-filling rubber ball for holding the water. Price Scf,
post free anywhere. Wholesale and Retail.
S. c. F. HAHNEMANN!
DISCOVERER OF
HOMOEOPATHY.
HOMOEOPATHY. TH ™™ r 0P
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are glad to be
able to state that the treatment ofWeaK-
ness and Kindred Ailments, Nervous-
ness, Stomach and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism and Allied Complaints,
Prostatic Affections, Etc,, are com-
pletely and permanently cured by
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London
Hospital, stated : —“ Homoeopathy is only in its infancy, and if the
public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment
they would not fly to nauseous medicines taken in large quantities,
but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.”
We would like you to know more about our method, so in
order that you can make a study of our system, we will send to
your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure
“ WORDS OF WISDOM” to any person who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
JJIO.II O rheumatic
They Never Fall. T^!||q
They Always Cure. JT 1110
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9perbox.
Proprietors, PROUT 4 Co., 229. Strand.
London, England
çx
fASKYOUR STATIONER-FOR A SAMPLE OF
RrIWILLIAM MITCHELL’SRII
21 WILLIAM
io MITCHELL’S
CD HI CLASS SHOULDER
N? 9. First Class Shoulder Pen
the Original Quality ByThe ORIGINAL MAKER,
'free TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BEETS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST. f MELBOURNE, VIO.
Please mention this paper.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
»
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particular ly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenbnrys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
cx
cx
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
nutting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion. Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down” cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu.
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
,<❖
v ,4?
<#/■ V
&
&


VICTORIA
ston S'?
MIA / J L
~ i
Collins & Swan
WEST. AUSTRALIA
Hay St Perth
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward St? Brisbane V\3l}
NEW ZEALAND
H6&143 QueenSL Auckland.
18-3 LambtonQuay.Wellington.
236 S 233 High S>\
Princes S DowlingSt? Dunedin^
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
a! If it's from '|E
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store nee rest]
you.
®®®®©9®®(s©©®o
TtTygg
E6e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.** Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
No. 01923—Very Fine Pearl and Turquoise set 15cb. Gold Gable Bangle, £ll 10s.
No. G2666—9ct. Gold Pearl and Ruby
Photo. Pendant, £i ss.
02621.
Oct. Gold
Fancy Chain
Bangle,
in case,
£3 3s.
size.
Gold and Fine Pearl Crescent Star and Drop Necklace, £9 10s.
CB
No. E 9668. — 9ct. Gold Gable Bantfle, in case, £2 10s.
No. G3s47—Pearl and Amethyst Set Oct. Gold Bangle, k,i 108
No. C2l94.—New Zealand Green
stone, Pearl, and 9cb. Gold
“Scimitar” Brooch, 255.
No. GBs46.—Pearl and Turquoise Set 9ct. Gold Bangle
' •• £2 15s.
Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
Heart, 10s 6d.
No. F9355.—18ct.
Gold & 3 Diamond
No. H 1203.
Pearl or Ruby Set
9ct. Gold Heart.
10s 6d. Others
6s 6d, 12s 6d.
18ct. Gold and 5
Diamond Engage-
ment Ring, £lO 10s
9ct. Gold Heart
Pendant, 8s 6d.
Rheumatic Ring.
2s 6d.
18ct. Gold Wedding'
Ring, 30s.
Other weights, 21s,
255, 40s, 50s, 60s.
No. F 9278.
Diamond and Ruby
or Sapphire 18ct.
Gold Engagement
Ring, 50s.
No. F 6137 —“ Louis ” Pattern, Massive Solid Silver
Tea and Coffee Service, in case, £54.
No. i*o4vs—Solid Silver-Mounted Blotter, 16s 6d.
Other sizes, 14s 6d, 17s 6d.
Solid Silver Match Box, 7s 6d.
SPECIAL,
No. 66989.
Silver-Plated
Table Bell, 9s 6d
No. G 4598. —9ct. Gold Bell
Lace Pin, 8s 6d.
Engraved Silver Cigarette Case, Solid
Gold Shields and Bands, £3 3s.
No. F3—lsct. Gold Long Muff Chain, £9 10s.
A Very Handsome Style.
No. 262—9efc. Gold
Medal, 215;15ct.,3756d
Finest Quality Pearl Set
Locket, £8 10s.
Silver-Plated Screw Top
Flasks, 9/6, 11/6, 18/6,
15/6, 17/6, 22/6.
18ct. Gold Band Bing,
Diamond Centre,
£4 10s.
Solid Silver Chain
Purses, 18s 6d, 255, 35s
Parisian Pearl Necklet, 9ct. Gold Snap, 8s 6d ; Best Quality, 14s 6d.
Oct. Gold Nellie Stewart Bangle, £3 10s ; 15ct. £5 15s.
Bayonet Top, Best Make
Silver-Plated Flask,
32s 6d, 355, 40s, 60s.
No. G5612.-Silver-Mounted
Hand Bag, 16s 6d.
THE ••STEEL” WATCH.
Absolutely perfect for timekeeping, }-plate, full
jewelled, best quality Lever Movement, Keyless
Winding. Highly recommended for Country wear.
Satisfaction goes with each.
Open Face, Steel Case, £1 ss; Hunting, £1 10s.
Solid Silver and Black Velvet
Chatelaine Bax', £2 10s.
Other Styles, £2 7s 6d, £4 4s
No. G4349.—Silver-plated Cherub Pin Tray, 3s.
No. H1137.—-Solid Silver Rose
Bowl, £2 10s.
' ' kjv#
8 /!§ iSfW'
±+ }
irsj.v
V s '< :
€?
&
i?v
-V-^
? V.
/fVlvi'r
No. G6o2B.—Solid Silver-mounted Full-size Blotting Book, £2.
No. G4723 —9ct. Gold
Medal, 17s 6d.
No. F7s— Silver-Plated Butter Dish, 9/6
No. G262l—Solid Silver Serviette
Clip, 2s.
No. G6B92—Silver-Mounted Shaving
Paper Holder, 10s 6d.
Others, 63 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s.
No. GB7os—Lady’s Solid Silver Cherub
Purse. A Marvel of Value. Order one
to-day. Only 20s. Size 3in. x 2in.


A Child's Delicate SKin.
Its Care should be the First Consideration
of riothers to Ensure a More
Healthy Constitution.
FROM the very beginning of its life a child should be made accustomed to the use
of the purest ingredients in its daily bath to ensure proper nourishment of the
skin, and the building up of a more active and vigorous constitution.
Lack of early attention in this particular very often leads to serious
skin and internal disorders, owing to its weakened condition due to
improper and injurious compounds, principally common soaps, robbing
the immatured skin of the child of the nourishment it needs.
Every mother knows that the daily bath is as necessary for the
babe as is its food, and is largely responsible for its good health. The
very tender skin is so apt to get raw, chafed, and inflamed, and the use
of inferior soaps irritate the parts, causing restlessness, pain, and very
often skin troubles in a malignant form.
Obtain peace of mind for yourself, and comfort and skin health
for your child for all time by obtaining Zam-Buk Medicinal
Toilet tSoap. Use it exclusively in the bath each day, and you
will find it contains the best medicines possible to soothe and comfort
the child and ensure its future good skin health.
Zam-Buk Soap is of special value for all requirements or the bath and toilet where a
softness and refinement of the skin and complexion is necessary. It will remove the
coarse,dry feeling caused by dust, wind, sun, and acids contained in gritty powders and com-
mon toilet soaps, and will, with constant use, continue to exert its powerful influence in the
prevention of disease and the maintenance of good skin health. Zam-Buk Soap is reeom-
mended and used largely in the sick room, owing to its great purifying and sanitary influence.
cx
WHEN YOU USE ZAM-BUK SOAP
You have the satisfaction of knowing that your skin is
getting the very best treatment possible, and from the
outset a marked improvement will be seen. It is the
most economical soap to use, lasting twice as long as
ordinary toilet soaps. There is skin-health and beauty
in every tablet.
Zam-Buk Soap can be obtained from all Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout Australasia, or direct from
THE ZAM-BUK MFCr. CO., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney,
W.S.W.
n
S'
P.
For Eczema, Pimples, Blackheads, Itch, Cold Sores
Chapped Hands, Freckles, Scalp Diseases, Facial
Blemishes, and all Childish Skin Ailments, ZAM-
BUK SOAP Will Give Wonderful Results.
ZAM-BUK SOAP
Softens, Soothes,
Strengthens and
Sanitates
THE SKIN.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Stony”: There are more prams, than people
on the sidewalks of Prahran (Vic.) these summer Satur-
day afternoons. Out there, where a great part of the
country’s backbone is found—the part which sweats for
tbs country’s good—the “ Fambly ” has to be taken out
shopping because it can’t be left at home. Prams, there
are, and feeding bottles, and very fat, purple women with
loud voices, and children with pink sugar-sticks. Also
dogs. The bargains are astonishing. When I start my
suburban villa I am going to do my shopping in Chapel-
street, Pra’n. You can get some very cheap lines in eggs
and macintoshes ; and the men’s trousers at 4s. lid. the
pair are particularly refreshing. But there is something
suspicious about the dining-room suite at £2 10s. I
don’t see how they can do it, particularly when one con-
siders the system of payments at Is. a week. lam sure
it cannot be quite good at the price.
* * * *
“Quan”: When Australia sets out to make
alcoholic fuel it won’t have to rely on that exotic, spiny
curse, prickly pear, for its raw material; the indigenous
grass-tree will supply it. Experiments in Westralia
show that the fibres of the core of the grass-tree yield
from half-a-gallon to a gallon-and-a-quarter of proof
spirit per bushel. Early Swan River convicts knew of
the grass-tree’s capabilities, and used to make a liquor
from it. Had Botany Bay convicts known the same trick,
some of Sydney’s leading families would now be doing
honest toil, instead of riding in carriages, enjoying the
fortunes made for them bv their rum-selling grandfathers.
• • * •
“ A.E.M.” : The cool drink and fruit luncheon
man grew confidential, the other day. “It’s been a
wretched season,” he said. “ What suits me is a good,
steady heat—say, 106' in the shade. When it’s like that
in my shop I can take from £l2 to £l5 a day in cool
drinks, ice-creams, and fruit luncheons and salads. When
the ’mometer drops to 95°, my takings drop, too, to any-
thing from 30s. to £3 a day. Take it all round, lemon-
squash is most popular of all the soft drinks. Squash,
with soda or lemonade, is 4d. ; with water, 3d. With
lemons cheap, I’m right. With lemons at 2d. wholesale,
where’s my profit coming in ? When lemons are about
20. each to me, you get less’n a quarter lemon in your
squash. The flavoring’s lime-juice. Fruit salads are
popular and profitable. You can get rid of your split
peaches and your speckled apples, and your black-skinned
bananas can bury themselves.beneath the cream.”
Writing of Weyerhauser, America’s lumber
king, lately alleged to have been kidnapped, Norcross,
Washington correspondent of London papers, talks of
America’s timber resources. “ Nothing in this country is
growing by leaps and bounds like timber properties. The
pinch is coming. The prodigal waste of years is creating
a paucity of desirable timber tracts. A piece of land in
W. Virginia, covered with spruce and hemlock, and pur-
chased five years ago for 12,000 dols., was recently sold for
500,000 dols." And he gives other instances. Think —
£2400 turned into £lOO,OOO in five years 1 And without
an hour’s labor or a shilling expenditure. And the fool
Governments of Australia are following the same course.
Timber is cut down and rushed away by the square mile,
without the slightest attempt at re-afforestation being
made. Australia is living on its forest capital just as it
has done on its land asset.
• * * *
On March Ist there came into force a law to the
effect that all brandy entering the Commonwealth must
be distilled juice of the grape. Concoctions of spirit
distilled from any old thing, and hitherto masquerading
.as pure brandy, must now drop the word brandy off the
label before they can be passed by the Customs. So
during the last days of February the villainous importer
rushed vast quantities of sham brandy through the
Customs, the amount of duty on this one article collected
in Sydney alone on February 27 being £3lOO. Conse-
quently, until the present stocks are used up, Australia
will still drink spirit made out of pine shavings, and old
boiled-down boots and hats, and all manner of wild sub-
stances, and the importer will not be ashamed.
* • * *
“S.T.”: A large firm, importing periodicals,
which recently closed its doors in Australia, told its
newsagents that competition and Trusts, and other
things, had pushed it over, and incidentally remarked
that, during its life, it had built up Australia’s periodical
and “ comic ” trade to £30,000 per annum. Let us, there-
fore, consider some: We pay a big sum like that for
what? Is it for something that will teach us to believe
in Australia, and work for it, and, if necessary, fight for
it? Not much ! The £30,000 goes yearly to bring us a
brown’s worth of inanity in the shape of “ penny comics”
or a penn’orth of ’Omb Slops, which affords us a full
account of how Lord Toneyville or Milady Middle Broke
“ took the waters.” Personally, I’m not sorry that that
firm shuts up shop.
« • * •
N.S. Wales Deputy-Comptroller of Prisons
M'Cauley, who was largely instrumental in introducing
the finger-print system into Australia, suggests the use
of the method to prevent cheque forgeries. The idea is
that each bank customer should leave his thumb-print
with the teller, and when he draws a cheque he should
put his thumb print on the back of it as evidence of good
faith. There are two difficulties in the way. First, a
teller couldn’t recognise a thumb-print as he does a
signature, and there would be a slow and laborious
process of comparison. Second, a man in a large way of
business, who signed a number of cheques daily, would
have a verv murky and disgraceful-looking thumb.
What’s the "matter with a toe-print? The toe isn’t
conspicuous.
* * * *
“W.H.W.”: “Hermes’” sympathy with the
burglar who ought to succeed, but is pipped by an acci-
dent (B. 14/2/’O7), calls to mind an incident of the fifties
in Ballarat. / Wedged in on the main thoroughfare near
the Montezuma and Charlie Napier Theatres was a gold
buyer, financier, &c., with a good record. Owning a large
fire-proof safe, many diggers stored their gold with him.
Late one night fires broke out simultaneously on either
side of the premises (incendiarism, without a doubt).
Very suddenly an improvised lorry was placed in
front of. “Mo.’s'” premises. The door was burst
open, and willing hands quickly piled the safe on
the lorry, which then went off down Plank Road.
Interested inquirers, on arrival at the raging fire,
were informed that “ Mo.’s ” safe was rescued
and all right. Gradually volunteers retired from push-
ing the lorry, until the “ promoters ” were left in full
charge. Then, turning into the scrub, Eureka way, the
weight of the safe broke the back of the lorry in crossing
a water channel. That was as bad as dropping down a
600 ft. shaft, and so the safe had to be left, and was found
intact early next morning. Years after, meeting one of
the gang in Sydney, I asked him why he kept so close to
the drink. He said he dated his downfall from the time
that wretched gutter got in the way’ on the Plank Road
at Ballarat. ;
That lately-mentioned fraud, the German
razor, with “ Price 10s. 6d.” printed in gold on the case,
has turned up in a Melbourne Police Court. It was
sworn that the fraud can be purchased for 18s. a dozen,
and is dear at the price. The “ Price 10s. 6d.” is ob-
viously put on to help the swindling trader. The Com-
merce Act is, presumably, keeping its best eye on this
remarkable German razor.
“ Mallarapoonie ” tells of the undertakery
business in the back-blocks :—“ Like some recent Bul-
letin contributors, I’ve done a little bit of a lot of things
in my time; sometimes the middle of things ; sometimes
the two ends; but mostly the tail end. The worst failure
of my life was as an undertaker. I only undertook one
funeral—that of a Chow in western N.S.W. The planting
was accomplished successfully enough ; it was the K.i.r.
process that was a fiasco, and any undertaker who can t
guarantee the corpse eternal R.I.P. for at least seven clear
days is a flat, monotonous failure, and a distinct Diignt
on an honorable profession. . .
“|Ah Pong, a scrub-cutter, was suddenly called hence,
and for some religious reason his mates flatly refused to
bury him, or even approach the corpse. They reported
the occurrence to the manager, with gesticulations,
hinting that the defunct was no gentleman, and not a
friend of theirs.
“ As the nearest police were four days journey away,
the boss, as J.P., ordered a burial, and told off Bill, the
carpenter, and self to conduct it with all due respect o
the deceased. We suspected some infectious disease to
be the root of his mates’ objections to bury him, thougn
they assured us not. Anyhow, we took no chances, and
Bill, with a long-handled shovel, and self, with a gum
sapling, handled the remains as gently as might he into
the flimsy coffin that Bill had constructed out of kerosene
cases. He didn’t seem to fit too well, though Bill re-
marked that it fitted him all over and touched him in
only three or four places. However, we packed up the
crevices with items of his property that the other Chows
vehemently insisted upon having buried with him, and
made him look comfortable enough. Then we _ loaded
him into a spring cart and started off to look for soit
ground. Finally we selected a site near a wire fence on
a box flat, but, after sinking 20 inches, we bottomed on
blue clay with a hard, dull thud. The day was awfully
hot. Bill got out of the hole and hooked the sweat off
his brow. He guessed that would do. I guessed so
too : so we settled it at that, and, though the coffin-lid
was only 7in. below the surface, we banked it up well
with loose earth and ashes from a place where a stump
had burnt out. ‘What about a bit o’ fencin ? 1 sug-
gested. ‘ Blow the fencin’,’ quoth Bill, and we went on
our way rejoicing. .... *
“Next day a pedigree bull conducted his harem to
that locality what time an old ‘hatter’ from the herd
happened along outside the fence. Now, anyone knows
that if you produce two bulls, with one barbed-
wire fence between, and a patch of soft earth
on either side, things are liable to happen. What
happened was that Royal Duke XIV. got down on
his marrow bones and inserted a horn into that
new mound with grievous results. Among other things,
besides much dust and bovine cusses, that were hurled
at the intruder across the fence, were one small bag of
rice, one coffin lid, one packet of tea, two bundles of Joss-
sticks, ditto of crackers, one jar of preserved ginger, one
string of Chinese coins, some silk handkerchiefs, assorted
wearing* apparel, a blanket, a battered Mongolian hat
everything, in fact, except the corpse itself, which was
only saved by having its pigtail jammed in a crack of the
coffin floor.”
* * * *
“ The Gunyah ” : Despite Bulletin’s continual
teaching, could not, until a week ago, erase from my
brain-box the idea that Federation was a curse to Aus-
tralia, and N.S. Wales in particular. Being young, and
a daily reader of the N.S.W. Press, thought it was only
established to provide “fat men with fat billets.” But
have just lately had that delusion removed from my
noddle, and the blessing part brought really home. Some
six years ago, I invented, afLer years of constant study and
experiment, an acetylene gas generator. It cost me
close on £l5O to patent in six different States
(got about £5OO out of same). At present time, I
have another idea, but, thanks to Federation, will be
able to patent the same in all the States for £l3,
payable on the instalment system. Enough to make
one give up reading Sydney dailies. By the way,
to show the up-to-dateness of the press: In its “ Will You
Tell Me ” column, the World's Scissors, week after week,
answers “ Constant Reader,” “Pro Bono Publico,” &c.,
re patents, trade marks and copyrights, with the same old
stereotyped par : “ You seem to have a good idea ; write
to Patents Office, Chancery-square, Sydney.” Now, the
N.S.W. Patents Office left C.S. for Phillip-street in ’99.
So that “Will You Tell Me” column is a trifle behind
time—just eight years behind.
THE VISITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He oame unheralded, alone.
The blinking scars that swam in space
To light the portals of the Throne
Beheld his form and saw his face.
Not I, who, deep in dreams of love,
Did kiss my girl on lips and eyes,
And for her brow gay garlands wove,
The while we roamed in Paradise ;
Not I, indeed 1 Had I but dreamed
Of baser deeds, and seen him there,
While on my face the pale light gleamed,
And cast strange shadows on my hair,
In bitterness and passioned might
From my lone couch I would have sprung
And questioned him, and given fight,
While on the air my voice had rung.
Alas for me ! When I arose
To speak with whirling eloquence,
To feel the pockets of my clothes,
My watch and all my affluence
Had vanished quite. And after him—
When burglar, watch, and coin had flown-
With much ado and visage grim,
The Sergeant went on feet of stone.
TAS.
THE CHOST.
EBENEZER PERKINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Ebenezer Perkins came along to Tilberoo,
He was taking life proposals for the well-known 1.0. U.
His air of modest dignity,
Combined with mild benignity,
Convinced us that he was a man to whom respect was
due.
From our little township carnivals he strictly held aloof,
For he looked on ; worldly pleasures with a visage of re-
proof.
In words of simple piety,
He showed that inebriety
Would place us, bound and helpless, underneath the
cloven hoof.
We gathered Mr. Perkins to our warm and trusting hearts,
For he seemed a chosen vessel, and appeared a man of
parts.
He gave no weakly latitude,
But took the sternest attitude,
And pierced our sinful failings with religion’s keenest
darts. ,
We must have been exempted in a manner that is rare,
From physical infirmities to which our flesh is heir ;
And though we were not alien
To habits Bacchanalian,
We passed as sound and sober men by Ebenezer’s care.
Then our hearts beat high and happy in that town of
Tilberoo,
When we handed in our premiums to join the 1.0. U.
We quivered with anxiety
To join that great society,
And pinned our faith on Perkins as a man we thought we
knew.
When Ehenezer Perkins wended homeward on his way,
We shed the tear of sentiment, and begged him hard to
stay;
We pointed out that vanity,
The curse of poor humanity,
Would wreck our new-found morals, for we were but
human clay.
His arm was slow uplifted, and it pointed in the air,
As if to tell our citizens to look for comfort there ;
And words, too deep for uttering,
We saw his lips were muttering—
’Twas Ebenezer Perkins wafting up a final prayer.
Since Ebenezer Perkins left the town of Tilberoo
Our trust and moral rectitude have disappeared from
view.
The 1.0. U. Society
And Ebenezer’s piety
Were figments of his fancy which have vanished like the
dew.
Now we carry lethal weapons ever ready to our hand
For the conscientious stranger, with a manner smooth
and bland,
Who reproaches our impiety
And frowns on insobriety.
We will argue with that stranger in a way he’ll under-
stand.
B.A.
DEXTER.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
Stte LEADING
HOUSE FOR
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
OUR
6/0
4/0
2/0
Special
' ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“KEY BRAND.
99
M34—Mustad’s Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Ringed, XX Strong—
Nos. 1-2- 3 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
sd. 6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. lOd. lid. 1/1 1/3 1/6 per box of 50.
M4o—Mustad s Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted—
Nos. 10 to 1 1£ 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0
3d. 4d. 4d. sd. sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd.
M44—Mustad’s Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted. XX Stromr—
Nos. 10 to 1 Ij 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0
sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/. 1/2
10/0
1/- per box of 50
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free
10/0
1/3 per box of 50
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
BrSoar»»L? k Si“r S'ess K'.tolSSfUtSS' Slf'fjT , heaH "<* f™" is Sufl.rer s from any form of Bronchi, fa, Cough, DifficnUy of
efface a CompfatTcure It fa m““ comforl.no ?„K “?h rel,el ; and *° ,h T who are sub j' cl 10 Colds °" «>• Chest it is invaluable, as i,
chronic, nor 'consumption to developSSSZ "ever been knol.l ,o S S-S'l“ V °L Ce ’ “ n “ ,her al, °7 s a C ° a * h ar A »">™ >°
should be without it, as. taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Curl is atum. ” properly treated wlth lhls "■Oleine. No house
! The Sreal Success ° f HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each callin e his medicine “Bronchitis Cure" with the obieot of
HEARNE-! moJoSETES T V***'" 2 “ “ i™ o " "Hich Has none of t h : ;enehoim th^t
and to rennet e? S ‘ . C ° naet ' uent| y !t Has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE-S and to see that you e et It
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26 ; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors and be the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geeloner, Victoria. Forwarded to an „ «. . ’ Y ®
NOTICE.— -a « aoea NOT f"/ ‘ “‘'‘"lnua,!" 111, tor
*r»e youngest child and the most aged person.
jC^SjDE
li#V SE
ANITA*
[Disinfecting}
Fluid,
COLORLESS,
FRA ’ RANT,
NCN-roiSCNOUB.
1 A
Pint Bottles.
Oxidant e Germicide
Indispensable In all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “ SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Llmehouae,
London.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
xc
SIS! CORRECT
For ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE
Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for
our picture postcards, we have devised this
simple method of advertising with the object
of making our name more widely known and
to introduce our new Catalogue, we offer
you a grand opportunity to display your in-
genuity, and receive the generous reward of a
Silver Watch (Ladies or Gents) or any articles
picked from our catalogue to the value of fi
for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an im-
pression on your mind that you will
be compelled to talk about us to your
cx
xcxc
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO,
“,' q 'ares, with the fipre 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place
s tSn- - h ° f the elght empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a
£f !£i. SqUareS may C ° ntain thC ' Samt
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending vour solution to this nuzzle men"
taon whether you would like Lady’s or Gent’s ritee, This is an honest offer made by firm
The distance you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us as all have an enuil on
portunity for winning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash Q ° P ‘
W.th your solution of his puzzle send postal note for 3/- for which we will send you six dozen
of the most artistic penny picture postcards you have ever seen. Everybody wants nicture nostcards and if
IZ ,T hole ° f the 72 CarC ‘ S for y° UrOWn USe ’ >’ OU hav ' e PlentZiftfSoracquaintances
who will be delighted to pavyou a penny for each one you wish to dispose of, thus you get double the value
for the money you send with an excellent chance of winning a Solid Silver Watch 7 S 1
Send your answer at once, together with postal note tor 35., and a stanmed addressed envelone sn that
youHetters veTyp'lainly'to In WrUing ' State whether Mr., Mrs, or Miss, and address
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, 5 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NO CERTAINTY without
"RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF lager beer
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Pure and Wholesome*
15he BULLETIN POST CARDS
- PACKET OF TWELVE, la. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
THE BEST AND
Purest Medicine
EVER MADE.
Don’t be without a bottle. You
will not regret it. Try it to-day.
What makes you tremble so?
Your Nerves are all unstrung, and
NEED a gentle, soothing TONIC
to assist nature to repair the damage
which your excesses havq caused-
Sulphur Bitters
IS NOT A
CHEAP
RUM OR
WHISKY
DRINK
to be taken by the glass like other
preparations which stimulate only to
DESTROY. If you have FAILED
to receive any benefit from other
medicines or doctors, do not despair.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
In all cases of stubborn, deep seated
diseases, Sulphur Bitters is the best
medicine to use. Don’t wait until
to-morrow, try a bottle to-day.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
çx
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse*
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and a
what it will accomplish. Send for
ib and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, Pitt St., Sydney
9
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. The. Bulletin Office, Sydney


HALF*AM
ris no man No one respects a
' weak-willed, nerve-shattered
man.
No one can be a whole man
who lacks the nerve-magnetism
—which is so easily detect
the bright eye, the quick st
and manly bearing of he
whose stomach is in per-
fect working order.
Dr. Sheldom’s
Digestive Tabules
are a genuine nerve '
tonic, because they bring
about in the only natu-
ral way a restoration of
nerve power, a building
up of lost tissue and ap
petite by the digestion
and assimilation of whole
some food.
Price, 2/6. Guaranteed.
m
I
ALWAYS FIRST,
niCHELIN TYRES were the first
riotor Tyres made. They finished
first in all the big motoring contests
of the last few seasons, and to-day still
easily hold first position for speed and
reliability. The Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th cars in
the great Vanderbilt Cup race were all on
Hichelins ; and the Ist, 2nd, sth, 6th and Bth
cars in the Grand Prix owe their success to
the same make of tyres.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
City Depot,
226 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
Letters about
Liver Complaint
From Mr. J. Edwards, Davey-street, East Geelong, Vic., 31st August 1905.
“ For about twelve months I had been ailing from aggravated liver complaint, producing indi-
gestion, biliousness, a heavy feeling in the chest and frequent pains in the shoulder blades. I tried
the usual purgative remedies, which had the effect of only temporarily improving my condition. I
could get no permanent relief until I took Warner’s Safe Cure. lam pleased to say that the good
effect of that medicine became apparent almost immediately I commenced to take it, and in a short
time I was thoroughly cured. I have recommended Warner’s Safe Cure to many of my friends, whc
all speak well of it.”
From Mrs. K. Chapman, 150 Paddington-street, Sydney, N.S.W., Bth February, 1906.
“ For a considerable time I was a sufferer from liver complaint accompanied by severe pains in the
back, depression of spirits and loss of appetite. I tried anything I thought would do me good, but
obtained no relief whatever. I happened to read one of your books giving accounts of wonderful
cures Warner’s Safe Cure has effected, and therefore decided to try its effect on myself. The result
was marvellous, as in a short space of time I was completely restored to good health, and, I am glad
to say, I have not been troubled with pains of any description since.”
From Mr. Gladstone Mayne, 22 Parade, Norwood, S.A., 14tli December, 1905.
“For several years past I suffered much pain from symptoms of liver complaint, such as bilious-
ness, indications denoting congestion, heavy pain in the right side, and a dull persistent pain under
the right shoulder blade. I was also affected with dizziness, headaches and loss of sleep. I resorted
for relief to a number of medicines, but did not obtain any good result until I began to take Warner’s
Safe Cure. 1 took only a few bottles of that medicine when all painful symptoms subsided. During
the last twelve months I have not felt anything of the old complaint. Being fully convinced that 1
am permanently cured, I am truly grateful.”
From Miss Annie Leleman, Zabina-street, off Thomas-street, North Broken Hill, N.S.W., 28th
November, 1905.
“ I have much pleasure in testifying as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure, haying taken that
medicine when suffering from functional derangement of the liver. I was troubled with severe pains
in the back, sides and head, with constant dizziness. Indigestion troubled me a good deal and caused
me many sleepless nights, whilst exercise of a.nv kind brought on fatigue. Warner’s Safe Cure was
brought under my notice. I procured two bottles of the medicine, and after taking the second bottle
I found a great improvement had taken place in my health. All aches and pains had gradually
ceased to trouble me. I could eat without distress, and get refreshing sleep.”
From Mr. A. McEwan, 6 Princes Place, Darlinghurst, N.S.W., 15th September, 1905.
“ I suffered for months from liver complaint, which caused dizziness in my head and a languid
tired feeling. I also had severe pains in my side and back. I tried many medicines to obtain relief,
but without effect. I was advised to try Warner’s Safe Cure by a friend of mine, and it is a good
thing that I took his advice, as, after taking about four bottles of Warner’s Safe Cure, I was
thoroughly cured.”
From Mr. William Tanner, Hawks’ Lane, West Geelong, Vic., 31st August, 1905.
“It affords me great pleasure to write to you as to the efficacy of Warner’s Safe Cure in my case.
For years I had been suffering from loss of appetite and indigestion, accompanied by violent pains in
my stomach and disagreeable symptoms r.fter every meal. I also noticed a loss of nervous power.
When in this condition I began to take Warner’s Safe Cure. The relief I obtained was speedy, and
after I had taken a few bottles the symptoms I have described ceased to exist, and now I feel like a
B ew man.”
A treatise explaining the action of
Warner’s Safe Cure
■will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne. [lo]
Ballad of the Elusive Keyhole.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is not a pious ballad for the people
who are pallid—
It is not a mournful mumble for the rising
cherubim ;
’Tis a story glad and frisky, made for folk who
browse on whisky—
For the band of keyhole-seekers when the dawn
is breaking dim!
Have you ever chased the keyhole?—ah, that
slick, elusive wee hole —
How it dodges in the darkness; how it skips to
left and right;
How you grind your teeth and grumble, as you
fossick and you fumble—
As you chase the ribald keyhole in the dear,
dead hours of night!
For the keyhole is a caitiff, and the body legisla-
tive
Should prepare a stringent measure to amend
its wicked ways ;
They should pass a Bill instanter, warning key-
holes not to canter,
Nor to gallop, nor to gambol, nor to impudently
gaze!
For I’ve heard the keyhole giggle when, with
quick, avoiding wriggle,
It has left me flabbergasted at the carnal hour
of three !
And upon the mat I’m sitting, whilst the scampish
keyhole, flitting,
Tells its shameful comrade keyholes of the joke
it’s played on me !
Aye, when midnight tolls, the keyhole doth be-
come a cheerful free hole.
And it meets its naughty brethren at the corner
of the street;
There they gossip, talking scandal, while I fumble
at the handle,
And with stick, and fist, and knocker, impo-
tently bang and beat!
I demand the swift suppression of this impish
keyhole-session—
Aye, I make my earnest protest from the vant-
age of the mat;
Here am I, locked out and lonely, with the steps
for refuge only,
And regarded with suspicion by the dim
domestic cat!
There! the key is lost completely—as I fumbled
indiscreetly,
Some infernal vampire snatched it from my
oscillating hand ;
I shall sleep upon the mat now, I shall cease my
rat-tat-tat now—
I shall slumber on the doorstep, and be wrapped
in visions bland !
* * * *
Ah, the dawn is creeping over ; now the sun, like
any lover,
Weaves its couch in halls of darkness, whe.e it
bedded with a star,
Now the bad and wicked keyhole is no more a
vagrant free hole —
Now I’m serious and sober, for the world-door
stands ajar!
I have found my missing key now, and the key-
hole winks at me now,
And pretends it’s been a fixture since the sun
went down last night;
But I know that it is lying by the hours I spent
in trying
To locate the impish fissure as I fumbled left
and right.
Have you ever chased the keyhole ?—ah, that slick,
elusive wee hole—
How it dodges in the darkness, how it skips to
right and left;
How you grind your teeth and grumble, as you
fossick and you fumble—
As the keyhole sprites enmesh you in their
most malicious weft!
But a time is coming, brothers, when this woe
shall join the others—
When no more shall missing keyholes make bon
vivants curse and frown ;
For our proud enlightened nation shall invest in
legislation
That shall make our lazy landlords chain all
frisky keyholes down !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Wildernesses of Commerce.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FATHER was not “ getting on,” save in
years. But he still dreamed dreams, and,
though forced to temporarily abandon his
plan of artificially filling the dry creek, and
thereon sailing pleasure boats at so much per
passenger, in favor of more expeditious schemes
for keeping the creditors at bay, he still nursed
the Great Idea. This, evolved by magic from
the purchase of a few strawberry plants, was to
turn his sterile acres into Recreation Grounds (by
name Gethsemane”). Already his prophetic
eye viewed the moneyed of Quondong thronging
his quaint mia-mia refreshment stalls, the girls,
now fine young women, spryly serving home-
grown strawberries with cream straight from the
“ coo,” and he himself reaping in the shekels.
Mother took a gloomy view of the Idea-she
bad seen the birth and death of so many like it.
.. ifL-f 8 ’ i 6 berr .i es plucked up to date and
stealthily absorbed while still in green iimnaturitv
seemed of a strangely malignant nature, as the
after convulsions of little Lige clearly proved. So
she put her foot down.
Mother was understood, in the family circle, to
have a business head, a reputation acquired bv
her having once detected a railway clerk in the
act of palming off upon her a bad sixpence. Her
talents were thrown away at the paddock. The
world of commerce called her as its own. Fearing
that Gran pa s last cheque would go underground
in the shape of almond trees (a grove of which
'! as t -, embe i t “Gethsemane”) she clutched
it tightly, and leaving Father in charge of the
thp W; ° Cks i ll , 1 a bu y er should come
over the horizon, and brother Pete in pawn at
the store, working off the bill as rouseabout, she
yarded up the rest of us and took train for Mel-
bourne. She had decided to go into business,
heedless of Dad’s call to wait till the strawberries
were grown. In the city sale of these berries he
already saw gigantic profits.
Mose, already a man about town, had been
charged in advance to find a suitable warehouse.
He was given a free hand, Mother only stipulating
that it be “ cheap, high and dry, near town, and
no stinks.” So Mose timorously interviewed the
agents. They brushed aside the stipulations with
a royal air, and, as a great favor, put him in
possession of a stand in which the last tenant had
realised “a little fortune.” It wore an air of
brooding melancholy, and was not blameless in
the matter of smells, and Mose was not favorably
impressed, but the agent was so pleased with
Mose’s luck in securing it that to damp his joy
would have been too cruel.
Competition was rife in the street of brooding
melancholy, but, as Mose explained later to
Mother (with a very fair imitation of the agent’s
large manner), that was no detriment. Rather it
was the life of trade—he had the agent’s word for
the fact.
Arrival at Spencer-street was a perilous busi-
ness. We had been solemnly sworn to cling to-
gether at all costs—to let go even for a moment
would mean kidnapping. Little Lige clung to
Mother tenaciously, and we to him. Strung to-
gether we threaded the maze of traffic, became
entangled in barriers, and were run over by
porters’ trucks. Mose met us, and quickly got us
out of the public gaze and into a cab. Thus we,
for the first time in our history, rode in something
less homely than a spring cart.
Mother bore up heroically against the melan-
choly shop and the street of desolation, but broke
down utterly at sight of the yard—a dismal,
squalid corner, no bigger than the hen-house at
home.
The shop interior, too, was a barrack. We
worked like slaves scrubbing it out, and swashing
its gauntness decently in newspapers laboriously
and fancifully; hacked out with blunt scissors,
quite unaware that paper was purchasable,
brightly tinted and cut by machinery, for almost
nothing per mile. At last Mother declared the
premises wholesome, and she and Joe went to
market for the stock.
Considering the outlay, the show was not great,
and even when every apple, wonderfully polished,
was made to fill the space of three, there were
dreary wastes of window unoccupied. Father
sent us the dairy produce. The butter was very
creditable—hot weather and lack of method being
considered.
Like the Swiss Family Robinson, each did a
share. Mary Ann, aged 14, was deputed to count
the eggs. Grovelling on the floor in the midst of
hen fruit, dazedly staring at grotesque hierogly-
phics on a list, she was not an inspiriting spec-
tacle. She was no arithmetician. Her totals and
Father’s never coincided. At the slightest inter-
ruption, behold Mary Ann abandoning hundreds
and starting again at egg No. 1. Meanwhile Joe,
creaking in blucher boots and sulky with tooth-
ache, was being coached in the art of serving
butter without leaving finger-marks on it, and
pat after pat was sacrificed in the process. The
amount he dropped on the floor was terrible.
Our home-printed cards, inscribed with ‘‘Oh,
look!” and “Only 6£d,” shakily done in red
letters amid a hail of black dots, we considered
marvels of artistic effect. Mose alone was dis-
satisfied. They weren’t ’‘the thing,” he said
gloomily, and “put the whole show away.”
Mother got badly, battered in the first day of busi-
ness in a tussle with shutters that were refractory
from long disuse, and had to take to her bed.
Still we were open long ere the public had
shuffled from its night attire.
Contrary to expectation, we had time for break-
fast. The public was clearly not an early riser.
Later on, school children lined the windows and
rubbed sticky fingers on the glass. They impu-
dently inquired prices, and deluged us with
unasked advice. The more venturesome even
gave Lige a run for his life, and robbed him of his
ginger-stick.
The day wore on, and Mary Ann, poised ready
for action behind the counter, looked pathetically
at the passing herd that always passed. And she
poised similarly the next day and the next, and
not a coin crossed the counter.
Mother began to fret, and Joe got the hump.
We re-polished the apples and kept the butter
with us by strategy, and when at last a buyer did
come, Mary Ann (who had been early taught that
honesty was the best policy) “ could not recom-
mend it; only fit for pastry,” she said, conscien-
tiously. And she smiled a wan smile as the
customer, sniffing fastidiously-, sailed away.
A loud knocking after closing time announced
another customer. He was an imperative person,
but we were very cute—we were not going to be
fined for trading after hours, and we disregarded
his thunderous appeal. We were presently dis-
turbed by loud sobbing in the lane and the appear-
ance of a grimy woe-begon6 figure over the fence.
It was brother Pete, escaped from pawn and
fleeing to the bosom of his family. About this
time Mother took “ the shivers” and had to go off
duty.
As locum tenens muddle-headed Mary Ann ran
the whole gamut of imposition. No confidence
trick was too stale to take her in. She became quite
an adept at exchanging good money for bad. or
absent-mindedly neglecting to deduct the price of
the purchase, and her honesty was worse than ever.
Then the Quondong fowls went on strike. We
bought, but could not sell, other eggs which used
to explode with loud reports, Charging the air
with odors suggestive of gunpowder and bone-
dust. And through force of circumstances, the
produce department gradually died. In fact, it
had never lived.
There was nothing: narrow about Mother. She
decided to add other branches of commerce-
drapery, fancy goods, and what not. And in
these varied lines we soon became fair game for
every tinpot canvasser whose brow was brass and
whose hands were the claws of Beelzebub. Mother
took the lying assurance of one concerning the
public’s screaming necessity for gaudy little
aprons and rubbishy blouses. It was the fag-
end of summer, but she. bought heavily. This
same Ananias it was who persuaded her to take
the roll of serge, reputed to be “ Fox’s.” He got
it under the rose—hence its cheapness. Could
he rely on Mother’s integrity to keep the matter
secret ? No, nothing dishonest about it, he
assured her; all fair and square—merely a good
business deal. The serge cannot be said to have
been an entire swindle, as, warped and spotted,
portions of it, in the shape of half-mast trousers,
cover Father’s legs to this day.
We persevered, but somehow the new “lines”
didn’t take. Certainly one of the gaudy aprons
was bought by a half-witted girl with a stolen
shilling, over which transaction, by some twist of
law. Mother narrowly escaped 14 days.
Then a sneak thief stole the till, and Mother
gave up. Home-sick, forgetting the recurring
worries of the paddock, the heart-breaking chase
after Billy the steer, the everlasting job of fowls’
food, the daily trudge for the cows, and the mad-
dening optimism of Father, Quondong loomed in
the distance like a Paradise. To the sound of
the explosion of the last eggs and the smell of
ancient vegetables she gloomily reviewed the
situation, and turned her back on Commerce.
The fiat went forth amid general rejoicing.
Even little Lige speculated fondly on the fate of
certain yabbies he had left in a jam-tin. Mary
Ann hastened to prepare our last meal in the
city, and went peering in the shop-window for
any remaining edibles, and such was the joy of
Pete that he seized her by the ankles from be-
hind, and turned her into a human wheel-barrow,
her legs being the handles and her arms the
wheels, and guided her skilfully through the re-
maining provisions and hanging papers. Crash-
ing over the cruets and hair-pads, Mary Ann
rioted confusedly in the window, and caused the
general public to take a real interest in the em-
porium for the first time.
In the midst of packing up a shaven stranger
entered. His boots were white with dust, and he
bore a glaring carpet bag. He advanced to
Mother, who seemed turned to stone, and grin-
ning broadly to hide other emotions, he kissed
her. It was Father without his whiskers, in buff-
colored clothes and a boxer. He beamed on all
affectionately till the situation was explained.
Then his jaw dropped.
“Going back!” he roared testily. “Going
back just as I see my way to turn this business
into a gold mine ! Going back ! Why, I sold the
tarnation place a week ago, an’ here’s the pro-
missory note.”
WEEROONA.


PROOF POSITIVE
“ The Testimony of Your
Neighbour is Conclusive
)
\
o
FROM
SYDNEY.
Permanent Cures of Urinary Disorders,
Bladder Weakness, Gravel, and Other
Kidney and Bladder Diseases.
Proof again from Sydney—proof which you
can put to the test .
Mr. Alfred Hairsine, of “Farnley Cot-
tage,” Cowles-road, Mosman, retired engine-
driver, says:—“l wish you to publish the
following statement about Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, for the benefit of people suffer-
ing from kidney and bladder trouble. For
many years my wife was a sufferer with the
kidneys and bladder. The symptoms were,
striking, aching pains in the back.
Ten years ago, when in England, she
consulted a doctor in Leeds; he failed to
do herany good, and remarked to her, ‘ There
is something about your case that I cannot
understand.’ (I mention this fact because
kidney trouble is often misunderstood.) On
our return to Sydney, she went to one of the
leading doctors; he said she was suffering
from catarrh of the bladder (commonly called
inflammation of the bladder.) On exam-
ining the urine, he said it contained uric
acid, and the difficulty would be to get this
out of the system. He prescribed for her,
but his medicine did her no good ; in fact,
it made her worse. She had several other
prescriptions made up, and used various
remedies, but she was getting worse all the
time. She was scarcely able to get about,
and would be confined to her bed for days
at a time. On one occasion she fell down
on the verandah, when the pain struck her
suddenly. A book about Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills had been left at our cottage.
I carefully road the testimony of people
who had been cured by Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills of kidney and bladder trouble,
and advised her to use this remedy. She
commenced to use them in January, 1904.
She was very bad at the time, but Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills soon began to make
an improvement in her health, by driving
out the sediment and other impurities
through the secretions in a natural way
(the doctor’s medicine had stopped this
sediment). Before long she was able to
walk about, ‘ the backache ’ was cured,
and the secretions regulated ; thus she was
not disturbed at night. Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills have done her a wonderful
power of good; in fact, made har a new
woman.
“Seeing how Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills had benefitted my wife, and not feel-
ing quite right myself, having painful
symptoms of urinary trouble, and difficulty
in passing the urine, I commenced to take
them. They proved just as good in my case,
by regulating the secretions, and expelling
the sediment and othec impurities. I have
kept the sediment passed with the urine
while my wife and I were using the pills,
and it has become solidified, and weighs over
20 ounces. Everyone knows that if this
were left in the body it would form a stone
in the bladder, which would necessitate an
operation, and probably mean death. There
is no doubt that if we had not taken the pills
when we did there would have been serious
trouble later on. We both feel better now
than we have felt for ten years. My wife
and I between us have used 100 boxes of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills; then, of
course, her case was severe, and of long
standing. After reading this statement, if
any sufferer would like to see me personally,
I shall be pleased to give them full particu-
lars if they call at ‘ Farnley.’ I have proved
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills contain
the healing properties they are represented
to have, and know that if taken according
to directions, they will cure kidney and
bladder troubles.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Fills are for sale by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s 9d per box (six boxes 15s 3d), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Fitt-street, Sydney.
vxc
xvç
vvcx
SERIOUS CHANCES
ARE TAKEN OF NEGLECTING A
SIMPLE CASE OF PILES.
Any person takes serious chances in neg-
lecting an attack of piles. This ailment has
a tendency to become chronic, and there is
also a further tendency to ulceration and
forming of fistula, which we know are most
difficult to cure.
The safest remedy for any form of piles,
whether itching or protruding, is Doan’s
Ointment. In using it, there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the many oures
made by it have made it famous in every
corner of the world. It enjoys a greater
demand and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other pile remedy ever placed upon
the market.
Mrs. James Mahony, 11 Healy-street,
Paddington, this city, states: “Mr. Mahony
has been a dreadful sufferer with piles. The
ailment started fourteen years ago, through
sitting on a hot anvil. First it was itching
piles, but gradually it developed into pro-
trading and bleeding piles also. I think
that he had this ailment in its worst form.
He suffered terribly at times. He was
ready to use any remedy he could hear of as
good for this complaint, but though he used
a great many, got no relief until he used
Doan’s Ointment. We had seen this oint-
ment advertised, but he did not try it until
a friend (who had been cured by it) told him
it was ‘the only cure.’ I am very pleased
to inform you that the first application gave
relief, and a further treatment gave him a
complete cure. lam sorry that he is not at
home to give you fuller particulars, but I
need scarcely tell you that he is very enthusi-
astic about this preparation.”
It cannot be repeated too often that
Doan’s Ointment will cure Itching Piles.
It will cure them absolutely. But do not
take the manufacturer’s word for this—ask
Mr. Mahony. He knows, for it cured him,
and he lives here in Sydney. Is not that
the best possible kind of proof? Could
there be better ?
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2s. fid. per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Remember the Name—DOAN’S.
•j
Youth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE been told that I must grow old,
and become as the old men be,
With never a tooth in my gums forsooth,
nor a hair on the head of me !
With a palsied hand as the old man’s brand, and
a watery, red-rimmed eye,
On doddering crutch T shall mumble much of the
good old times gone by.
With shanks shrunk thin and a parchment skin,
and hollowed hand to my ear,
I shall greet the New with a weak “ Pooh, pooh !’
and an impotent, senile sneer.
My thoughts each one (with a staggering run)
shall circle this dreary theme —
The conquests made by the Old Brigade in the
days of the old regime.
With a pulse grown slack and a rounded back,
and blood in my veins grown cold,
I Shall gather the wage that waits on age— !
Ah, never shall I grow old !
For I’m young ! I’m young ! and my hopes are
strung in tune with the infinite.
So a fig for Age with its smirched page—MY
pages are clean and white !
They are clean and white for my hand to write
whatever my heart decree !
I shall be what I will! Let the stars stand still,
but I’ll fashion my destiny !
And fortune shall hold no gift of gold, no prize
of place or power,
But what she shall yield when I take the field in
the pride of my morning hour !
Yes, I have been told that I must grow old—
most surely the seer is wrong !
Grey age is as far as the star points are from me
and my world of song !
M.L.
SING. S. OLARK.
A Tale of the Sea.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CLUMP POINT had been selected by
the Boss as the site of the next camp, but
the trouble was how to get there. The
roads were in a shocking state, and our three
packhorses were quite inadequate to the contract.
“ There’s nothing for it,’'said the Boss to the
Assistant-Surveyor, “ but for you to take the camp
gear round in the Enterprise. Tom can go with
you. You’ll be there early to-morrow morning,
and as it will be night before I arrive with the
men you’ll have the whole day to fix camp. We’ll
make a start now. S’long.”
Then the packhorses and the men, in the lightest
of light marching order, swung off through the
box trees and disappeared.
* * * *
The s.s. Enterprise was an unwieldy, untidy,
locally-built flat-bottomed craft of about 20 tons
burthen, and 2J indicated horse-power. In some
respects it was an interesting creation—a sort of
relic from the days of the .old merchant adven-
turers who made Old England’s name smell so
highly. The owner was captain, chief engineer,
supercargo and purser. The other fellow was
first mate, quarter-master, deck-hand, assistant
engineer, fireman and cook combined. These two
composed the entire list of officers and crew.
Early in the afternoon the Assistant-Surveyor
and Tom got the camp gear on board the Enter-
prise, after some argument with the purser, who
was very drunk, and an entire absence of any
assistance from the crew, who was far from
sober. The craft was due to sail, or at least to
crawl, but the long afternoon wore away and the
passengers saw no signs of departure. By 5 p.m.
the captain and chief engineer was helpless, and
the crew was stating emphatically that the ship
would not leave till 8 o’clock next morning.
Having made this announcement the crew retired
to the innards of the ship, and the Assistant-Sur-
veyor and Tom took turns at cursing.
The next morning found the captain suffering a
recovery. To steady his nerves he had to
resort to sundry hairs of the dog, and he kept
resorting till the alarming baldness of the dog
must have been noticeable. When sufficiently
braced up to attend to business, he discovered
that the tide was quite unsuitable, and went
ashore to indulge in walking exercise to expedite
his recovery.
When the crew appeared the tide was favorable,
but the captain was missing, and it was not till 6
p.m. that he was discovered and brought on board
in a partially-sober state. The process of weigh-
ing anchor was interrupted by a slight unplea-
santness with the crew, and the captain chased
that large and influential body of men round the
deck with a spanner. While discipline was being
restored the Assistant-Surveyor and Tom hid
behind some deck cargo and awaited develop-
ments. No bloodshed occurred ; the winded
captain gave up the pursuit, and announced his
intention of going ashore to get some whisky to
pull him together after the exertion. This
brought the Assistant-Surveyor from his lair to
remonstrate in vigorous language against any
further delay. The crew chipped in. The cap-
tain offered to fight the A.-S. and crew combined,
and their marked disinclination to meet him
moved him to cheerfully offer to do it with one
hand tied behind his back. Their continued
refusal disgusted him. He found it hard to ex-
press his feelings, and concluded by remarking
that a man should be very careful about the
selection of his ancestors.
Having completed his observations, the captain
struggled on shore. After a while, he returned
with a supply of whisky, and shouted the order
to let go, and fell downstairs, and struck some
wood under the boiler. From his place on the
wood under the boiler he called to the quarter-
master to take charge of the wheel. The A.-S.
lifted up his voice in rejoicing at having at iast
got a start.
The Heads were cleared shortly after dark, and
once the Enterprise was over the bar the captain
Went to sleep hugging the bottle of whisky. He
resolutely refused to be awakened. So the A.-S.
took the wheel while the crew went down and
looked after the engine. Tom mooned round and
expressed doubts about ever seeing the missus
and the kids again.
Even the buoyant A.-S. felt depressed. As the
ttight wore on a cold, dispiriting breeze came
moaning over the sea, and the steamer began to
roll slightly. The A.-S. kept her on what he
believed to be the course, judging by the coast-
line, and wondered if there were any jutting
reefs. The waves moaned louder, and the A.-S.
saw with an uneasy feeling that white manes
began to appear on the top of the water rather
frequently. In the midst of this he suddenly
became aware that the ship was not answering
its helm too well. It also occurred to him that
the thud of the engine was slow and irregular.
.Letting the wheel revolve to a straight rudder
he hurried below. The dull glow from the open
furnace door was the only light in the place—and
it was very dim. The crew lay in a heap in front
of the fire-box, fast asleep. The captain was
there also, and in the same state. The A.-S. felt
vexed, and smote the crew with his foot. The
crew half woke up, but was mutinous, and reso-
lutely declined to put another adjective stick into
the carmine fire. “ Let the lurid something
captain fire the ruddy adjective engine—his
immoral troubles! ”
The A.-S. thought hard for a moment, and then
hurried on deck to offer the billet of chief engi-
neer to Tom. After an anxious search, Tom was
discovered groaning up near the nozzle of the
boat, hopelessly sea-sick. He was too ill to be
interested in anything; all he wanted was to be
left alone to die in peace. He wouldn’t fire any-
thing, and would be delighted if the ship would
sink. Then he grew reckless, and proposed to
scuttle her to escape his misery.
The A.-S. tried to keep a tight grip on himself,
but he felt that if he stayed there he would lose
it. That sea-sickness seemed decidedly catching,
and, holding his waistcoat, the A.-S. fled to the
other end of the deck. As he did, the steamer
got into the trough, and, rolling horribly, took
great green seas aboard, which caused Tom to
howl dismally.
Mad with rage and fear, the A.-S. rushed down
into the stokehold again. Was he to be drowned
like a rat on account of these drunken brutes?
Not much ! Next moment found him kicking
the sleeping captain with all his heart and both
feet. The mariner scrambled to his feet and
used languagethat scorched the sides of the ship.
But the A.-S. was thoroughly roused, and he fell
on the captain with a lump of wood, and jammed
it into the middle of his waistcoat as a terrific
lurch threw him on top of the ancient and dis-
respected commander.
“Will you fire up and navigate the dashed
steamer, damn you ?” he yelled, smiting the cap-
tain across the midriff as the back roll of the ship
helped him to his feet. “Will you?” he roared
louder than ever, bringing the wood down on the
captain’s guard and arresting an uppercut in mid-
air. “Yes, you fool!” shrieked the captain, as
the timber nearly broke the right arm with which
he tried to hook the A.-S. “ Will you ? ” bellowed
the A.-S. suddenly falling on him as the ship
rolled once more, and kicking him savagely with
both feet as they went down together.
The captain dived for some wood to put under
the boiler. The infuriated A.-S. thought he
meant to use it for purposes of offence, and he
brought the timber down once more, this time over
the captain’s neck. The officer howled for mercy,
and the A.-S. desisting, once more scrambled on
deck and took the wheel.
Presently the engine again started, and the
ship’s head came up to the seas. The A.-S. was
beginning to feel safer, when sounds of a savage
altercation between the captain and crew smote
his ears. The crew was requesting the captain to
go to Sheol and not disturb his slumbers, but his
remarks were cut short by a series of heavy thuds,
followed by silence. The A.-S. concluded that the
crew was dead, and remarked that it was a good
thing.
For two hours all was peace, and the A.-S.
steered on, dozing at his post. He was suddenly
awakened by another stoppage of the engine, and
once more he went below. This time he smote
the crew hard with a lump of wood, and, after a
good deal of profanity, he induced it to take the
wheel. The captain declined to budge, so the
A.-S. fired up, and then lay down on the deck for
a brief nap.
* * * *
The A.-S. awoke with a start. It was morning;
clear, fresh, and divinely calm. He staggered to
his feet and stared round. The engines were still
throbbing. The crew was at the wheel, fast
asleep. Then the A.-S. looked across the water,
and found the gallant Enterprise proudly bear-
ing down on a solid rock.
His hair flew upright.
“Hi, there ! Let go yer afterspring—back
water, reverse or what the devil you call it. Oh,
you blanketv fool of a blank. Let go an anchor
or something. Tom, cap’n, steersman! For
Gawd’s sake turn the damn ship ! ”
The crew who was leaning, fast asleep, against
the wheel, heard the frantic yells and instinctively
ported his helm, thus saving the situation. But
it was the closest of close shaves. The crew
glared at the rock, and when he got control of
his voice let fly a magnificent burst of language.
The A.-9. drew a deep breath and raved. Even
the limp and dispirited Tom came from the
nozzle of the ship, where he had fallen asleep when
the calm happened along, and joined in the roar
of vituperation. The mingled cursing and disre-
spectful mention of his name and office roused
the captain, who promptly came on deck to vindi-
cate himself.
But the sight of that frowning rock face struck
him dumb, and, thoroughly seared and awakened,
he went below and stoked up with great vigor,
The crew hoisted a bucket of water over the side,
and, washing his face and hands, set to work to
prepare breakfast, while the A.-S. took charge of
the wheel once more.
* * * ■*
Somewhere about 10 a.m. the Enterprise crept
to the moorings at Clump Point. The captain
and crew had finished the bottle of whisky be-
tween them, and had cjuite recovered their spirits
by the time their destination was in view. The
Boss came on board, and with a cold, sarcastic
voice asked if all hands were alive.
The captain resented his manner, and cheer-
fully offered to fight him or any other chain-
lugger for a fiver. The Boss glared, and told him
he had a good mind to commence an action
against him for delay, loss of time, and depriva-
tion of employees’ services.
The skipper waxed eloquent, and, prancing
round, offered to slay the whole survey camp
with both hands tied. The camp ignored him,
and, starting to unload the gear, threw tents and
swags round him, while the camp oven rolled
over his feet.
Noticing that the crew was rather enjoying his
discomfiture, the skipper struggled across to him,
and invited him on shore for three rounds, just to
decide, first, what he was grinning at, and, second,
who really was the blanky boss.
The argument raged all over the foreshore while
the gear was being taken ashore, and the last
that the camp saw of the Enterprise and its
complement was the captain thumping the ground
with both hands, while the crew lay underneath
holding his officer’s legs with his own two arms,
and thereby keeping out of harm’s way.
FLABBY PAUL.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
w
s^l
“I used to have terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
ings left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S s arsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course Of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver—
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
There are many imitation “ Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Ayer’s Pills, sugar-coated, for constipation. In glas3 bottles.
FREE
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our Os. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which- we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
s
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL,
,RD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists la
Australia and New Zealand.
DR. J. COLUS BRUWHE'S
f HLOROPyN E
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears o-n the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLUS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
vm&sM. to any address our GOLD WIRE
anuuCHES on receipt of monev ,order or
D Co| f-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
wi Pen^l ,t ’ Heart < or Cross, 5/-. In 15o*. G.F.
l! !! !,!'?’ 6/6 ’ w ft *l Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
nH J ii ?* SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
06 RX CORO's
t SSC-HC E of u yf £•
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNES3 & DE JILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rioord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 38s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address / HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FR
■
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOP-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURB
THEMSEL'VES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious eonsequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDUET.
TO BE FIRST
is to occupy an enviable position. Many aspire for first place,
but few attain it. To acquire the lead, aspiration and push
alone are not suffic is required. This isexactly why
s‘apd f:remost among medicines—they possess real merit, and have proved
tbemsel es worthy of a permanent pcsition in the family medicine chest.
Trial pur hasers become regular users, because they find nothing to equal
BEECHAM\3 PILLS for dispelling
BILIOUS & NERVOUS DISORDERS, INDIGESTION,
SICK HEADACHE, LANGUOR,
and other such troubles which arise from a Disordered Stomach.
They regulate and tone up the entire system. The genuine worth of
BEECHAM'3 PILLS has obtained for them the unique position of having
the Largest Sale of any Patent Medicine in the World.
THE SALE EXCEEDS SIX MILLION BOXES ANNUALLY.
Sold every where In Boxes, price ///.} (56 olVs) and 219 (168 pills).
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your . • .
Rabbit skins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
HILL, CLARK ®. CO.,
SYDNEY.
JS YOUR WATCH
A TIMEKEEPER
Or Merelj
For Your
an Anchor
iii*?
vcx
vxc
vc
vcxcxv
It is surprising- how many men carry watches that are
quite nil reliable, and tliat, for all the” real use they are,
could well be replaced by a: piece of lead.
Here is a watch that you can carry with pride, one that
will stand any test you are likely to put it to.
It is an English Lever, made specially to our order.
Has three-quarter plate movement, is jewe led through*
out, in Silver Case, especially strong and close fitting.
This is a watch that is built for service, one that even
hard riding will not effect. Keyless pattern and war-
ranted for 25 years.
We'will send it post free to any
a rid less for 60/-, und if on receipt
of l tie parcel you feel in any way
dissatisfied with your purchase,
please return the watch and we will
cheerfully refund the amount paid.
If you would 1 ke some other style
of watch ask us to send you our
latest catalogue, which contains full
details tf w atc hes at prices to suit
all pot kets.
ANGUS and COOTE,
“The Store Where Qu'oßty Counts,”
GEORGE ST., Cor. Royal Arcade, SYDNEY,
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
xcv
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the «ams
diseases in 4.3
hours v/ithc;ii
incon-
venience. f >
Each Capsule bears the name ®»-
(MIDYJ
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH.
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free o» charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
''A
men
WOMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be oonsulted Personally or by Letter.
Honrs: 10 te 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
Ma.r be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical-work contains
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Fcur-Cclo; ed
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different tofbhose so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopatdiu of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing', chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. JSo similar book has ever been published. ”
CDCC A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate
1 * » giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND- OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five l.eetnres on “Special” Ailments posted
anywnere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). t3T Note Address : -
DR. MARTIN, M.D., "E>"Uey h O u SG , ’ EHzabeth-st. ,
Please mention this paper when writing. _ __ HYDE PARK, 3YDNEY, ’


OILSKINS
For Yachting, Fishing, Gamping, &c.
“ Oilciad ” Brand (Single through) .. 10/6
“Titan” Brand (Double through) .. 12/6
“ Dugong” Brand (Double through),
extra light 17/S
Sou’-Westers 1/9
(Black or Yellow).
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES ON REQUEST.
Perdriau Rubber G0., 1«.
270 George Street, Sydney.
HYPNOTISM-
AIS can learn to exert a nmgic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. .This work instructs you
how to _ master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free*
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to SIMPSON BROS., clare sy c dneyT reet
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
AIR DRILLS
CC
LITTLE Wl
33
xcv
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill fc
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 18lb.<. Operated by compressed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEE'
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
xvc
•BOURNE
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MEL!
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNE
Sold
by \
all flret-
claw stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 A 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116'
Buffalo Handle • 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
çxc
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNn/ES
are the
BEST.
PARKE & LACY CO, Ltd.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m
TEB
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
AGENTS FOR
NORTON EMERY WHEEL COMPANY,
MASS.
vxmmaKntmmmr
xv
WRITE FOR PRICES
PARTICULARS,
L. SCRUTTON &
, Ltd
I
07 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of &. Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL'S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings,
TUCK'S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c,
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
or Car
u
Made by the
silvertouin Rubber |Jo.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 CEORCE ST., SYDNEY
SPERRY SLUE TABLE
is. a buddie with a circular
wanning motion—a combi-
nation of uche two very
’best principles.
It is the only Slime Concentrator on
which’ sever .. 1 products can be made
of different minerals in one operation.
'
•V.
$Jp
Mi
THE SPERRY
is the only Slime
Machine which is built
on correct principles,
both mechanically
and
Comparative Tests
against Canvas
Tables show the
great superiority ? f
tb- SPERRY.
xcv
SOLE
LICENSEES,
263
George St., Sydney
AND MELBOURNE.
