

w
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1435.]
[Thursday, August 15, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
R. G. OO-,
107 Kent Styreet, Sydney,
< —FOR— , ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
;••• ...
p{N°2SB
m «
jjadley’s Orient jjotel.
RUSTON HELICAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
Are a great advance on any Centrifugal Pump hitherto on the market. Teste prove the
Efficiency to be higher than any other f a modulus of 83 per cant, having been obtained.
Sole
Agents :
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
\
"Take it bach,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ©
BACON.
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
•TlaficnaL I
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000,
■yii,. -—■—
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security •
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted, let
RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney
Wool
per cent .
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BARKERS
1
I
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FO\
, Arom^Sfrei\gtK£-Purit)C;
EASTWAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
to
€€
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIAN CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating ana Ice-Making Machinery.
HELICON SPA WATER
This Water retains its Tradition
as a Perfect Table Water.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.


THE RED PAGE
THE BOOK OF CHESTERTON AND JOB.
WHAT G. K. Chesterton, in an illu-
minating introduction, terms “the
most interesting of modern books ”
is titled The Book of Job (S. Well-
wood, London), published anonymously.
And, reading this remarkable piece of
unrimed verse, full of an almost Oriental
splendor of imagery—a quality we look for
in vain in the works of Alfred Austin —we
give our unqualified affirmation of Chester-
ton’s eulogy. The Book of Job ought to be
on every bookshelf ; it deserves as many
editions as The Rubaiyat.
In his introduction, however, Chesterton
has hardly done his subject justice, nor, for
that matter, does he pretend to. There is
something specially barefaced, or remarkably
modest —in short, something Chestertonian
•—in the assertion of the writer chosen
by the anonymous author to edit his poem
that he does not “profess to be competent
to decide ” the surely important question as
to which parts of this epic belong to the
author’s original scheme and which are
interpolations of considerably Jater date.
That is a question that Chesterton should
have personally investigated. A postcard to
the author would have settled it for ever.
And in his introduction Chesterton has
signally failed to give any information about
the author. Much as we dislike portraits of
authors, we suggest that if, as seems likely,
the poem gets into a second edition, the
photograph of the author might be made its
frontispiece. Such a remarkable poet cannot
hope to preserve his—or her —anonymity.
Nor has Chesterton any information to
dispense about the hero of the book
—though we are tempted to advance
the theory that this person, Job, is
merely another pourtrayal of the Superman
lately exploited by Bernard Shaw. How-
ever, while Chesterton does not mention the
author, he manages, in his preface, to name
the following individuals : —ltector, Cardinal
Newman, Moses, George Meredith, Ibsen,
Hampden, William Archer, Shakespeare,
Roland, Charles L, Mr. Balfour, Hamlet,
Homer, Aladdin, and Mr. Mullock. Ches-
terton’s omission of Mr. Chamberlain and
Judkins seems unaccountable. He tells
us, however, that Job was “an exasperated
optimist ” ; and from the story there seems
some reason for his exasperation, of which
the least was boils and the greatest the un-
wonted loquacity of his friends. Relinquish-
ing Chesterton, let us turn to the poem.
This “ most interesting of modern books ” is
at least more interesting than its preface.
J*
Job —we must apologise for speaking of
the hero thus familiarly by his Christian
name, but the author thus refers to him
throughout —this man Job was a runholder
in a small way in a place called Uz. His
stock consisted of 7000 sheep, 500 yoke of
oxen, 500 she-asses, and JOOO camels. It
will thus be seen that Job wont in for mixed
grazing. In addition to this heterogeneous
stock he had seven sons and three daugh-
ters ; but little is recorded of these contribu-
tions to the birth-rate problem except that
they spent all their time giving each other din-
ners, instead of lookingaftertherunandseeing
that the she-asses did not eat the camels—
which explains most of the troubles that fell
on the old man. The villain of the piece is
a sundowner named Satan. Asked where he
had come from, Satan answered, “ From
going to and fro in the earth, and
from walking up and down in it.”
The reasons for his hatred of the squatter are
not stated, but we may hazard the guess that
it had something to do with carelessly
dropped matches.
The sundowner was evidently a power
in the land of Uz, for suddenly quite
a number of annoying things happened
to Job. Some cockatoos of the name
of Sabean stole all his bullocks and his
donkeys, a bush-fire destroyed all his sheep,
and some Afghans, who came originally from
Chaldea, made a clean sweep of all his
camels. Then, rather tardily, a cy< lone
struck Job’s eldest son’s residence, at the
moment when he was giving a birthday cele-
bration to all the family, and wiped them
all out. And finally Job got boils. Instead
of calling a doctor, or giving up his meat-
diet, Job took the lid of a billycan to scrape
off the boils, and sat clown in the ashes of his
camp-fire. Naturally, Mrs. Job was annoyed
at his untidiness, and asked her husband to
use bad language and die. But the old man
told her that she was a foolish woman, and
for the rest of the poem she. sulked.
. J*
Then, as if the boils were not enough,
three neighboring squatters called on him,
and evidently came to stay. Even Job’s
remaining silent for seven days, during
which he presumably regularly scraped him-
self, did not discourage these unwelcome
callers. Then Job, seeing that they were
quite comfortable, remarked “To H— with
my birthday ! ” or words to that effect.
“Is there any taste in the white of an
egg ?” he asks. And one of his guests
named Bildad argues with him. By the way,
that name seems familiarly Australian. We
wonder if the author ever read Steele Rudd.
Job loses his temper with Bildad, and
politely informs him and his mates that
they are “ forgers of lies ” and “ physicians
of no value.” Subsequently he remarks
that there is too much blanky argument ;
but as he proceeds to argue a lot more it has
no effect. A rather rude man named Eliphaz
tells Job that he should not “fill his belly
with the east wind.” This annoys the old
man, and he retorts, “ Miserable comforters
are ye all ! ” Bildad • begins another long
speech with the remark, “How long will it
be ere ye make an end of words ? ” But Job
can be quite as rude. “ How long will ye
vex my soul, and break me into pieces with
words ? ”
Then he complains that he has trouble
with his servants. “ I called my servant,
and he gave me no answer.” And Job
regrets the lack of a stenographer.
Oh that my words were now written !
Oh that they were printed in a book !
The three cockatoos return again and again
to their absurd argument that the wicked
man does not flourish, and the point is
naively put that a fat man and a forecloser
of mortgages will in the end suffer from
indigestion.
Because he hath violently taken away an home
which he builded not,
Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly ?
But Job has a large belief in himself. He
terms himself “eyes to the blind” and
“ father to the poor,” and incidentally refers
to a presumably glorious time when he washed
his steps with butter—a somewhat extrava-
gant proceeding. And now he calls himself
a “ brother to dragons ” and “ a companion
to owls.” But Job, having at length argued
his three guests into silence, another loquaci-
ous friend, Elihu, the son of Barachal, the
Buzite—whatever a Buzite was is not ex-
plained gets angry with the old man
“because he justified himself rather than
God.” Elihu cogently remarks that “great
men are not always wise.”
At last, the Lord, evidently tiring of the
fruitless discussion, intrudes, or, as Chester-
ton puts it, “somewhat abruptly enters.”
But, instead of answering the thousand
questions put to Him, He proceeds to ask a
few more, such as, “ Gavest thou the goodly
wings unto the peacocks ? ” The Lord then
supplies some interesting facts in natural
history about the ostrich, the unicorn, the
horse, the behemoth, and the leviathan. He
pertinently poses Job with the question
whether he can catch whales with a fish-hook.
Ultimately Job agrees that he had been self-
righteous, and the Lord rewards him and ex-
presses his contempt for the three futilely
loquacious cockatoos. To Job the Lord
gives “twice as much as he had before,”
though whether boils are included in this
category is not expressly mentioned. And
thereupon all the neighbors called upon Job
and “ every man gave him a piece of money,
and every one an earring of gold.” This
collection of earrings would naturally prove
embarrassing to an ordinary man, but as Job
lived 140 (sic) years after this, perhaps by
wearing a different pair every day he got
some use out of the lot. And, finally,
he got a new family—a replica of his pre-
vious family, seven sons and three daughters.
It is mentioned by the author that the new
daughters’ names were Jemima, Kezia, and
Keren-happuch. Somehow it seems to us
that none of the old man’s afflictions were so
heavy as that of a girl burdened with the
name of Keren-happuch. It is to be hoped
that Job left her most of his earrings,
though, as she would have to wait 140 years
for them, she would net have much use for
them. It is a quaint tale, full of shrewd
common-sense, much bad language and bad
temper, and too much argument, but digni-
fied by splendid outbursts of poetic imagery.
The author, we may confidently predict, has
a future before him.
*.
The jubilee record number of The Sydneicm, the
magazine of the Sydney Grammar School, edited
by members of the school, is an interesting num-
ber, with contributions by “ Banjo,” reminiscences
by V. Chisholm, Judge Dowling, '‘Rolf Boldre-
wood,” and Dr. Quaif, illustrated by photographs
of interest to all old boys of a school that worthily
occupies a place of honor in their recollections
and in the estimation of Sydney.
The Bibelot, the little monthly magazine of
reprints, issued by that “genial pirate,” T. B.
Mosher, under the black flag of the American copy-
wrong laws, always has something interesting for
the lover of literature. The six issues of this year
(price sc. each) include Shelley’s essay “A De-
fence of Poetry,” “ The Seven Golden Odes of
Keats,” selections of lyrics from Landor and
Hood, and “ A Little Book for John O’Mahony’s
Friends,” by Katherine Tynan, one of the new
Celtic poets.
HYMN TO ENERGY.
God is; and because life omnipotent
Gives birth to life, or of itself must die,
The suicide of its own energy,
God. of his unconsuming element,
Remakes the world, and patiently renews
Sap in the grass and ardor in the wind,
Morning and evening dews,
And tireless light and the untiring mind.
God makes things evil and things good ; he makes
Evil as good, with an unchoosing care,
Nor sets a brighter jewel in the air
Than on the broidered liveries of his snakes.
Man, make thy world thine own creation ; strive,
Color thy sky, and the earth under thee,
Because thou art alive ;
Be glad, for thou hast nothing but to be.
Let every man be artist of his days,
And carve into his life his own caprice;
And, as the supreme Artist does not cease
Laboring always in his starry ways,
Work without pause, gladly, and ask no man
If this be right or wrong ; man has to do
One thing, the thing he can :
Work without fear, and to thyself be true.
Thou art as God is ; and as God outflows,
Weaving his essence into forms of life,
And, out of some perfection’s lovely strife.
Marries the rose’s odor with the rose,
So must thou of thy heavenly human state,
And of thy formless strife and suffering,
Thyself thyself create
Into the image of a perfect thing.
Arthur Simons (in “ The Fool of the World.")
THE BUSHVELDT BUCCANEERS
f tragedy of the Bushveldt Buccaneers is
I retold in Scapegoats of the Empire, by
1 Lieut. G. R. Witton (D. W. Paterson,
Melb.), who was, with Morant and Hand-
cock, sentenced to death, and, after three years’
imprisonment in English gaols, set at liberty.
Witton’s story is, as was inevitable, told without
reserve. He is justifiably bitter about the arrange-
ments for the court of inquiry and the court-
martial, which, in his opinion, did not give the
accused a fair chance for their defence. A full
account of the court-martial proceedings, with the
speeches made and the evidence, is given by Lieut.
Witton;
“ After sentence had been passed upon Morant,
the Provost-Marshal asked him if he wished to
see a clergyman. ‘No !’ he replied, in his usual
fierce and curt style; ‘ I’m a Pagan ! ’ Hand-
cock, hearing of this, inquired, ‘What is a Pagan?’
Upon being enlightened, he said, ‘l’m a Pagan,
too ! ’ Thus these two went out of this life
believing there was no God. Little wonder,
either! ”
Witton quotes Kitchener’s telegram to the
Governor-General of Australia, in which Kitchener
stated that there were, “ in his opinion, no extenu-
ating circumstances”; and furnishes a true
copy of the findings of the court, which
directly contradict that assertion. In the
Visser case the court recommended Morant,
whom it had condemned to death, to mercy on
the grounds of “extreme provocation by the
mutilation of the body of Capt. Hunt, who was
his intimate personal friend, his good service
during the war, and the difficult position in
which he was suddenly placed, with no previous
military experience and no one of experience to
consult.” In the “Eight Boers Case,’’ where
Morant, Handcock and Witton were sentenced to
death, Morarit was also recommended to mercy in
similar terms, and his brother officers on the
ground of “ their complete ignorance of military
law and custom, and their good services throughout
the war,” while the court considered that “both
were influenced by Lieut. Morant’s orders, and
thought they were doing their duty in obeying
them.” The court, it will be recalled, acquitted
Morant and Handcock of the charge of shoot-
ing the German missionary. Witton brings
out the utter secrecy observed by the mili-
tary authorities as to their finding till after
it had been confirmed in England, and the haste
with which that sentence was thereupon carried
ou t. ‘ ‘ While at Cape Town I wrote several letters,
giving a brief account"of the facts; I also sent
another cable, which I paid for at ordinary rates,
but all were suppressed. No knowledge of my
fate reached my relatives, nor did any news
regarding the affair reach Australia until Major
Lenehan arrived in Melbourne, a month after I
had been sentenced.”
Evidently the military authorities did not want
any bother till it was too late.
Scapegoats of the Empire, despite Witton’s de-
fence, makes it clear that these irregulars, con
ducting warfare according to the methods they be-
lieved were desired by head-quarters, were
technically guilty; though taking into considera-
tion the conditions of the war, their punishment
was excessively severe. The one bright spot in
a painful story is the fine manliness with which
the condemned men met their fate.
The Native Companion { Lothian, Melb.) appears
this month in new and dignified plumage. From
its scholarly beginnings, it has grown, with the
change of editors, into a magazine of fiction,
illustrated—on delightful Australian-made paper
—by good line drawings chiefly by Alex bass.
Contributors include R. Bedford, Bernard
C Dowd, Louis Esson, Frank Morton, and
“Kodak”; while E. J. Brady, the editor, fur-
nishes the first instalment of a caravan trip
through Australia that promises to be both in-
teresting and amusing. The Native Companion is
worth its increased price, sixpence.
The Clash of Empires, by Rowland Thirlmere
(Heinertiann) is a somewhat wild and whirling
exhortation to England to recognise the dangerous
position lier naval economy and her futile Free-
trade have placed her in ; but probably to a
country sunk in such a state of apathetic opulence
it is necessary to use wild and whirling words.
Thirlmere points out the danger threatening
England from Germany—that country’s avowed
intention of deposing England from her premier
place among the Powers, whether by commerce
or war the Kaiser does not greatly care. The
author pleads for the immediate necessity of a
policy of Protection and Imperial Preference,
pointing out that the English system of Free
Imports “is presenting her competitors with
* Dreadnoughts ’ free of charge.” His quotations
from German journals, and from the speeches of
German statesmen explicitly show the implacably
agressive purpose of that “big boy’s” Weltlud.
Germany means to depose England, and will wait
not a moment longer when she conceives she has
the power to break the British vvorld-imperiura.
Meantime Germany, while frankly telling us of
her intentions, does not pause in hei preparations
for that decisive encounter. Some of the author s
statements are startling enough. He asserts, for
instance, that the number of German reservists
domiciled in England exceeds by 50.000 the
strength of Mr. Haldane’s proposed expedition-
ary force. And he somewhat wildly states that
“ not very long ago thousands of Englishmen were
saying quite openly that if Japan chose to annex
Australia we could not prevent her. ... Not a
word did I hear about shedding British blood m
the defence of our great Colony.” One chapter is
headed, “ British Affluence, Indolence and Self-
Sufficiency.” Somehow we think this screech
will do England good : England is so hard of
hearing.
Wanderings East of Suez, by F. C. Penfield, an
American tourist (Geo. Bell, London, per G.
Robertson, Sydney), is a leisurely written and
quite readable travel-book, dignified by excellent
photographs.
In Putrian Weale’s The Truce in the East, he
notes the quaint fact that the Russian race-course
at Port Arthur is already the site of a Chinese
village; and the patient Chinese market-
gardener has seized upon this eligible site for his
cabbages. He also gives details of the extra-
ordinary museum of the war that Japan is fur-
nishing in Port Arthur, with exhibits ranging
from captured artillery to ladies’ corsets and
baby’s cradles found in the Russian army depots.
The Russian soldier evidently believed in being
prepared for all contingencies.
THIS TREND THAT DIDN’T
The enthralling interest taken in our Sausage
Serial —or in the ten shillings—resulted in a batch
of second chapters that would keep this story
running—and running pretty fast—till February,
1912. The further adventures of Alice are remark-
able for their diversity, and her methods of escape
from the room femininely ingenious. In one story
she shot down the speaking-tube, in another she got
away on a wireless telegram, in a third she simply
appeals to Christian Science, and insists that
there is no knocking at the door. She also
escapes, in airships, and in the disguise of
a red-whiskered constable. Several authors
insist upon that policeman coming to life;
there seems to be a wide-spread literary
prejudice against killing red-whiskered constables.
One author apologised for not putting in enough
murders, but E.A.L. introduces the dead bodies
of two tram-conductors and a Methodist minister,
while “ Carruthers (her dog) at this moment
arrived dragging the head of a bank clerk.”
This author makes the fatal mistake of killing
Charles; and though we have no prejudice
against the early slaughter of heroes, we love
Charles too much to let him die just yet. H.H.
begins happily, “Hastily concealing the five
bodies in an exquisite Shvres vase, Alice opened
the door.” Unfortunately, H. H. introduces us
to nine other characters, including a laughing
jackass, cruelly dragged in for local color.
“ Micawber’snice little chapter exceeded the
200-word limit. The author of Chapter 2 is
Hunt Coleman, Hercules-street, Chatswood.
Chapter 3, to appear next week, is by
J. M. Leape, 9 St. Peters-street, Darlinghurst.
Chapter 4, now asked for (to reach us by Tuesday),
will be a retrospect, giving some particulars of
Alice and Charles, and possibly of the circum-
stances that led up to the crimes. Not yet, how-
ever. must the solution of the mystery be given.
Chapter II.— The Mysterious Milkman.
(By F. J. Coleman.)
The knocking was kept up so long that Alice
began to think somebody wanted to enter.
What should She do?
Her heart smote her. Not hard enough to
hurt; but, with all those evidences round her of
things having happened, she feared the gossips
might talk.
Suddenly the door fell from its hinges. A
beautiful young man entered. He had disguised
himself by having his hair cut. But Love is not
blind. Alice recognised the majestic outlines of
his feet.
“Charles!” she gurgled. “Saved!” and
threw herself into his arms.
He threw her back again.
“Avaunt!” he cried. “Approach m« *ot,
gir-r-rul,”
Alice fell back on her womanly dignity, and
bounced up again, unharmed. She laughed, and
tossed her head. He made no attempt to catch it.
“ What would your mother say ?” he hissed.
Before she could answer, four tons of explosives,
which had been packed in the flooring by some-
body who had saved it up to shift the Federal
capital with, went off pop. . ' 1 ,
“There’s somebody knocking again,” cried
Alice, “ It may be the milkman.”
It was the milkman.
Charles went out to take two pints, and must
have taken more, for he did not return.
(Next author, please 1)
A VALUABLE AND COMPREHENSIVE WORK.
MODERN MINING PRACTICE.
A Practical Work of Reference invaluable to Directors of Minin? Companies, Minin? Specialists, Minin?
Engineers, Mine Managers, Mine Surveyors, Mining Students, Mine Officials, Mine Electricians and Mine
Mechanics; also Civil, 'Mechanical, and' Electrical Engineers who wish to adapt to the requirements of
their professions and to profit by a knowledge of Minin? Engineering. Edited by GEORGE MITCHESON
HAILES, M.E.. M.1.M.E., Minin? Engineer, Certificated Colliery Manager, Honors in Coal and Metal
Mining—Science and Art Department. With Many Hundred Diayranm and Illustrations.
To be issued in five volumes, size 10 x 7 inches, strongly bound in cloth, at 625. 6d. the set. Vols. lands
are now ready for delivery ; ot ler volumes will be sent to subscribers at intervals of three months.
GEORGE ROBERTSON '& CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
a*T HUDSON’S eumenthol. jujubes
Unlike Oousjh Medicines, do not cause efastric discomfort or digestive deranaremen.
Tim Practitioner” ~ys Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.
Sofd by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6tl.


The Bulletin
TH UK SPAY, AUGUST 15, 1907.
The DOVER,. —Enamelled Iron Eight-day
Clock ; Half-hour Strike ; Cathedral Gong ;
Height, 10,j;in.; Width, 9£iu. ; Dial, s£in. 19/-
The CORlNTH. —Enamelled fron Eight-day Clock ; Half-hour Strife
Cathedral Gong; Height, 12£in. ; Width, IGin. ; Dial, 4in. 40/-.
■ws&fegagangsgftai
The BAEiCO. —Eight-day Marble Clock ;
Half-hour Strike ; Height, 12&in.; Width,
9in. ; Dial, sin. £7/6.
N
d
The BE AVEB.— Black Walnut Eight-day Clock;
Half-hour Strike; Cathedral Gong; Height,
22|in. ; Dial, Gin. 11/6.
The Celebrated
ANSONIA CLOCKS
12
»
The AK.DITI.— Eight-Day Marble Clock ; Half-hour
Strike; Cathedral Gong; Height, 9Ain. ; Width,
ll^in.; Dial, sin. 32/6.
When ordering Bangles please state
Pattern Number and. whether 9d. or
15d. Gold is required.
%1
ms
S
W
§r
i,
The MORTARiCH.—BIack Walnut Eight-day Clock ;
Half-hour Strike : Cathedral Gong ; Height, 241,in. ;
Dial, 6in. 25/-.
<5l
<s 0M r® ®1
. //'- 0@
(D 0
S Q>
No. 825. No. 82C. No. 827. No. 828. No. 829. No. 830. No. 831.
GOLD CURB BRACELETS.
No. 825.—15 et., 120/-
No. 826.—15 ct., 100/- ;
No. 827.—15 ct., 82/6;
No. 828.—15 ct., 77/6
9ct., 63/-
9ct., 52/6
9ct., 45/-
9ct., 40/-
No. 829.—15 ct., 72/6 ; 9ct., 33/6
No. 830.—15 ct., 57/6; 9cr., 25/-
No. 831.—15 ct., 42/6 ; 9ct., 16/6
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 832. Gold Bamboo Bracelets.
9ct., Children’s Size, 15/-
9ct., Full Size, 21/-, 23/6, 30/-, 36/-, 47/6.
15ct., Full Size, 36/6, 49/6, 63/-, 75/-, 84/-
No. 833.— 501 d Bracelets.
Oct., Flat or -Half-round, engraved, 155.. 18s. 6d
225. 6d., 245., 265., 285., 305., 325. ’
ANTHONY HORDERN &sons
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


BY SELLING
YOUR
RABBIT
AND
OTHER
through WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CD.j Ltd.
The Successful Salesmen,
SKINS
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
s YDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKhSThIDES, TALLOW and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efhc.ent EXPERTS who pay spe j
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. es renc ; e f V
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEA I lor
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application. nurrPTiva ”
Sole Agents in N.3.W. lor the McNally Steel P-tent -ORIP DROPPEit.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
. . . , ii —nutt Tin von want to know how to utilize th„ most
Reader, do you desire to become * Hypnotist? £er otheM°? W Do*you value the
powerful and mysterious lorce ot nature? Ho y . , p value the power to conquer
means of securing friendship, love persoml fnflnence? »“/ b V )less gucc( £, to win wealth,
pain and banish sickness, to reform a mis uule• . ® Why not? No other accom-
position and happiness t If you do, you
plishinent is so easi'y acquired. It c " u 1 Greatest Hvnotist of the century has just
home. It costs uo.hing to find out all «*»»*}£ |o» t#STRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
issued in book, form ala ce and exhaus * w hile the edition lasts, absolutely
aIl h ihe hook u ;tf u s r V i lustrate, , containing and artistic
engravings, and shows at? never was done before the principles, Stella
and uses oft hi* myster ous Seieiu e. all in a ] opular and p e^ n, S it shows you
you hist what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with t. It shows you
how you may stray t e minds of others, perionn astounding feat.,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
...... ..-a+i.siw Tt VipTiPtits everybody who reads it. It
mcmiuuc. gUM illl bccu. ■ , . " T .
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it It
Dla-es you ill touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely 1 REE. Apply at once to-
PROF. R. H. BARRADEN,
09 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
i
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
POST CARDS ON CREDIT
THE BEST PENNY POST CHROS IN fIDSTRHLia.
Send No Money. This is Your Oppprtunity
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, etc., varying in Price and Quality, given
as a PRESENT when you Return the Mor\ey for % Cards.
■p-FfNnsrv POST CARDS are our GREAT SPECIALITY, and we will send you any Quantity,
. P 5i!???L P *r** 1 Dozen at Is Per doz. on Credit, to prove the SUPERIORITY of our Cards.
interest |° l j°y°g tamp should be sent for each doz. cards ordered—the actual cost of Postage.
POST CARDS SUPPLY CO., V Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W,
CORSETS.
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance hold sway,
C.B. Tailor=Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styßes.
Light as air, yet'guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
Obtainable in all styles from all
Progressive stores in Australasia’
if an y difficulty in procuring the co rreot
style, write for book of types to
E. Newport, Sons & Co,, Flinders Lane,
A. E. Wittey, York Street, Sydney.
Melbourne.
J. Bunting, Hobson Street, Auckland.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney .
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY competitxokt.
WINES rhe Bat °" ,y ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
is. ROOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over :>0
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court oe London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wife, The
Husband, and Tiif. Lover, Is ; posted Is od. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d Decameron
of Boccaccio, 2/0. Heptameron. 2/6. Bride ok the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnisihng and Polish-
Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is Love Under the Tiles, Is; post Is ;d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is How to Vamp on Piano, is. How to Vamp, Is.
How to M ake Love, Is Dream Book, Is. Morgan s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortdnb
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century-
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling, Is. 3d. Lover's
Letter* Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, l>y Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
{STAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
>*r/
m
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
They Always Get The Game.
For Sale Everywhere.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLO WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
, o those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at al
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money 7 'bv giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free Send"us vour name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formula! printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward vou, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This i s the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
IJlll
.
£.lOO
a Weeh
Given
Away
Free
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.
Capsule marked END'S ‘FRUIT SALT/ Without It you here «
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fnparad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT 1 WORKS. LONDON, BNO..
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
ARTER*
<&mm§
BILLS
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
F f°o ß r ?h E e AD com H R.’ex,on.
Everyman and woman shouldk an d Sallow Skin,
iniure the complexion, induce EK>S jjxTLE LIVER
Remove the cause by using C Constipa tion Begin at
PILLS, and above all thing . ■ j ivER PILLS, Lner
once with CARTERS LITTLE resist the wonderful
Complaints never have and Mver
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public iri cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter** Little Liver PiU» Must Bear Signature of


Losing your hair? Do you bring
out a combful each morning? Has
it lost its natural brightness? Is it
beginning to look faded and dead?
Do you like this condition of things?
Certainly not. Then stop this falling
of the hair at once. Stop it'before
your hair is thin, short, and lifeless.
Buy a bottle of
Mger’s
flair Vigor
and make your hair beautiful, glossy,
Silky, abundant.
If your hair is gray, and you don’t
care to look at thirty as if you were
sixty, then you should use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. It always restores color
to gray hair, all the deep, rich, beauti-
ful color it had when you were young.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Be sure you get AYER’S Hair Vigor.
PreoaredbyDr. J.C.Ayer&Co.,Lowell, Mass .U.S.A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
INFLUENZA
SCOTT'S EMULSION
The Evidence
from Amphitheatre, Victoria,
July27th, 1906. “Ihadavery
distressing attack of influenza
and decided to give Scott’s
Emulsion atrial. After taking
one bottle I noticed a great
improvement, so I got
another bottle, and when I
had finished that I was com-
pletely cured. I found Scott’s
Emulsion very soothing and
easy to take.”
(Mrs.) Josephine Dromey.
Ttte Reason Why
This Lady was Cured
Scott’s Emulsion helps grown
men and women just as sure-
ly, just as rapidly and signally
as it helps children, because
Scott’s is nourishment in its
most forceful, digestible,
wholesome form. You see
the point: Scott’s is gentle
enough for the most delicate,
yet it is vigorous enough for
the strongest—the dose is
different, that is all. The
reason is, of course, that
“ The Ashman
with the Ash "
on every pack-
age assures the
true SCOTT’S.
Scott’s is made
of the purest,
finest, most
virile Lofoten
oil, by the
renowned Scott
processof manu-
facture.
Remember
“ Best is
Cheapest.”
SCOTTS
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and Dealers
in Medicines.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Arcadian Lyric.
Clytie, rich in sylph-like charms,
Shielding thee from all alarms,
I would hold thee in my arms !
Would that be distressing?
Then, all wreathed in joys sublime,
Up to Paradise I’d climb !
I would treat thee just like Time.—
Time is very pressing !
I’d renounce Elizabeth,
Could I—as the poet saith—
Feel thy warm, ambrosial breath
Circling round my collar !
I would banish stately Pearl
Could my arms around thee curl—
She’s a mercenary girl,
And might take a dollar 1
Gentle Rose, I would forswear;
For her charms no more I’d care,
Could I feel thy fragrant hair
Rapturously tickling !
I would bid the sprightly Joyce
Elsewhere make her lifelong choice,
Might I hear thy dove-like voice
Thro’ the silence trickling !
I would say to Gwendolen :
“ Get thee gone ! Seek other men ! ”
If thou should’st permit me then
Frequent osculation.
As for timid little Janr,
I would pack her off to Spain
By the first convenient train
From the city station.
Haughty Rachel might r J el
For a brief and stormy spell.
I would bid her go to —well,
Wheresoe’er it pleased her !
I’d insult poor Marguerite,
Who has large, ungainly feet.
Often, walking down the stre. t,
On those feet I’ve teased her !
All these ladies I’d suppress—
Send them on their bus-i-ness—
if sweet Clytie’s soft caress
I might know and cherish !
All my worship would be paid
Unto thee—though, I’m afraid,
If I met a fairer maid
All of it would perish !
VIC.
ARCHIBALD LEE.
A Song Without Sense.
Once, as I sat beside the lamp,
A shadow fell athwart the door,
And something clinging to a gamp
Bowed low —it was an editor !
In terror and in wrath I turned,
And, thinking but to kick the air,
That shrinking form I madly spurned—
There was a crash upon the stair !
Two howls, and then the horrid sound
Of boarders rushing to and fro,
Ere the procession, nightly gowned,
Adown the stair did grimly go.
Like monks that pass to midnight mass,
With tapers held aloft they walked.
I heard them light the hissing gas,
I heard the awful way they talked.
Then back again that companie
Of boarders came, with solemn tramp,
And, in their midst, most tenderly
They bore a crushed and faded gamp.
Now in that dark and haunted hall
The spectre searches thro’ the night
For its poor gamp, and boarders call
Each unto each by candle-light.
And first they gallop up the stair,
And then they gallop down and shout.
The old landladj' does not care
To chase the dreadful spectre out.
All night upon the ragged mat
They sit and whine in misery—
The spectre and the Thomas Cat
They bear each other companie.
VIC.
KODAK.
The Poplar Path (Fitzroy Gardens,
Melbourne).
There’s a glory that floods everywhere,
There’s a tune in the sweep of the wind’s wide
wing.
In the bird’s low call is the note that’s rare ;
There’s a wealth in the spring’s sweet blossoming.
But the glowing sun,
Or the wind’s slow swing,
Or the softest call
Of a summer bird,
Or the sweetest melody ever heard,
Made by faint blossoms blossoming
Fade. For Longing has come with the winged
bees,
And I yearn once more for my Poplar Trees.
Stern tree-sentries one pace apart,
Guarding “ The Poplar Path ” end to end ;
High on their tops they have toss’d my heart,
These great sky-dreamers that never unbend.
Not the Love for calm pastures.
Nor for meadow stream’s flowing,
Nor for transient bird-pipings,
But the Love which brings heart-aches;
That Love which the heart breaks,
’Tis mine beyond knowing ;
For out of the Past on the dying breeze
Came the sound of thy feet thro’ the Poplar Trees.
VIC.
ALON GRAY.
IRISH
MOSS
tf
WILL CURE THAT . . »
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza «**
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par'
of the Label.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send ub your name and address and von will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest evi r published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Photo
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; i describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
grad Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class Work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
U/ITIJ TUC CDCC ART RflfW y°n win receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
111 111 I IIC mtt Hill DUUlxcver made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are abie to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten year-,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we iat sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manulacturers' prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every tr al and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL
By
Royal Warran
Purveyors to
His Majesty tub
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
moTr’s
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIH> AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney .
1
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
fittbridgcs
V £ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established, 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for (
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard i
against infectious diseases. 1
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, ,
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng. 1
The name
i Plasmon^
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK»albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF,
Plasmon ,
CONTAINS THE }
ENTIRE \
NOURISHMENT OF .
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK. \
Most food 9 are deficient In
proteid, which Is required to
support life.
PLASMON '
should he added to all'
foods because it supplies
this element. .
Foods mixed with
PLASMON ,
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others. '
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS >
AND STORES.


a
R
4'
£
N
Stands For
Wunderlich
METAL
LINGS
Your Home ami Your Business Premises should be ceiled with
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings.
They are handsome, hygienic, and fire-resisting. May be had in
hundreds of designs to suit all tastes and buildings.
Send for Catalogue “ D.”
The Wunderlich Patent Ceiling & Roofing Co., Ltd.,
Sydney Showrooms: 56 PITT STREET. N.S.W. Postal Address:
Victorian Branch : 123 Queen Street, Melbourne. BOX 474, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Agents in every State and New Zealand.
THE TIE THAT BINDS.
Cadbury's cocoa con be obtained in every corner of the British Empire
it is unr^uglleil.
*7;l
t .•
Wj.,
•'CV v t
~ BRITISH }
''VT-jCUKtNA JBjff
A';/ - V; •• NIGERIA
THE GIFT ™"
~rl»
TOWER COLONIES .XV
The New Fragrant
Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Seleoted
Virginia Leaf.
Ml
Tobacco
Manuracfured in
Richmond Virginia.
by Larus & Brother C?
Packed by RXowms * Co. A^enfs,Sydney.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from a:I
Tobacconists.
Facsimile of 2oz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
Scotch whisky
j
Wj
%
%
A
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIEP
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereafrh Streets.
,K| TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest,
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. . Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROU.ID FLOOR.
*
■es
m
NEW Club Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
NEW CLUB
ROSEBERY RACING CLUB’S GRAND STAND.
Ruberoid
FOR . .
GRAND
STANDS*
"pHIS photograph shows one of the new Grand Stands of the ROSEBERY RACING CLUB.
The seating accommodation of the building has been covered with RUBEROID, in order to
render the offices underneath absolutely waterproof. Other .racing clubs throughout the State are adopting
RUBEROID for the same purpose. RUBEROID may be obtained from all Builders’ Ironmongers.
Wholesale Agents: E. RICH <SL CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 28.—N0. 1435.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1907.
Pbioe 6n.
THE BAD MAN AND THE GOOD BOOTS.
G. H. REID ( political tramp): “BEG PARDON, MUM, BUT HAVE YOU SUCH A THING AS A PAIR O’ SHOES TO SPARE?”
LADY OF THE HOUSE : “WELL, YES, I HAVE ; BUT THEY’RE TOO GOOD FOR YOU.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ A ustralia for the A astral in ns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiie Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiie Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
llow to Address Letters,
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for '‘copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Iliads anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ichich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Sjiecial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size Ojin. xlhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 15, 1907.
THE TARIFF OF TWO PURPOSES.
The Australian tariff of 1907 is probably unique
among State papers, in that it attempts to gain
in one act two big purposes, the encouragement
of new Australian industries and the succor of old
British ones. It is at once national, in that it
aims at advancing Australia, and colored with the
new Imperialism, in that it gives without price and
without bargain a great trade advantage to
Britain. How far each object is served, and
deserves to be served, is a problem too vast to be
discussed within the limits of a newspaper article.
Some general canvass of the chief principles and
tendencies of the new tariff is all that is possible.
* V » *
On its direct service to Australia the tariff
must, of course, stand or fall. Failing in that,
it must fail altogether. Whatever the reasons
in favor of a grant-in-aid to the Empire—
of a bounty to British industry; whatever the
claims as to the flow of indirect benefits to Aus-
tralia from giving preference in trade matters to
Britain, no Australian tariff can claim Australian
support if it neglects any reasonable opportunity
of advancing Australian interests. That is a
“first principle ” which must be accepted. How,
then, does the 1907 tariff promise to affect Aus-
tralian industry ?
*■ * * *
All the industry of a nation can be grouped
under three divisions, foods, fabrics, tools. It is
the business of a civilised people—and especially
of a people living isolated on an island continent
whose coast may be beleaguered at any time —to
be able to provide from its own resources foods
to support, fabrics to clothe, tools to equip.
Until a nation can provide within its own
borders all that is absolutely essential for sup-
porting and protecting life, its position is pre-
carious. Any wise Government will insist on
that. It is the Protection which nationalism
demands, and in the demand need ask no help
from economic arguments. In the matter of pro-
tecting its food industries, Australia has been, as
a rule, fairly resolute. The late tariff, defective
as it was in many particulars, gave adequate Pro-
tection to food-growing and to several food-pre-
paration industries. But even in this respect it
was not perfect, as was shown by the extensive
importations which it allowed of cheese, biscuits,
bear, spirits, bacon, milk, confectionery, jam,
tinned meats, fruits and fish, and raisins,
currants, and other dried fruits. All these
could, and should, be provided from Aus-
tralian soil or Australian waters by Australian
labor, for the national reason that we do
not want to have to fall back on mutton and
damper in case of war; for the economic reason
that it is better to give work to our own folk than
to foreigners, and that the more work we can
give, the more folk we will have to defend this
country when it needs defence; and for the
health reason that effective supervision is pos-
sible by legislative action over all food articles
prepared in Australia, but not a hundred Acts
of the Commonwealth Parliament can keep
the dog out of the foreign sausage. In the matter
of food protection, the new tariff is a great im-
provement on the old. The duties on foreign fish,
meat, biscuits, confectionery, milk, fruits, and
other food stuffs are advanced 25 per cent., off per
cent., and in some cases 100 per cent. In many
cases the new duties will be practically prohibi-
tive ; and that is exactly what they should be. A
fresh impetus will thus be given to the Australian
manufacture of biscuits, confectionery, preserved
milk, jam, tinned fish, tinned meat, etc. That
will lead to the employment of much labor.
It will give a better chance of preventing adul-
terated and poisonous foods getting into con-
sumption. And internal competition, which in
such lines is always keen, will keep prices down
within reasonable limits. In the near future
the Australian stomach will not be any foreigner’s
rubbish bin.
* • * •
Fabrics, the new tariff deals with satisfactorily.
Where the duty on imported apparel was 25 per
cent, it has risen to 45 per cent. ; and in apparel
is included the whole gamut of clothes from
trousers to chest protectors and “ artificial
bosoms.” The duty on blankets is doubled.
Woollen piece goods, which paid 15 per cent, be-
fore, now pay 35 per cent, if foreign, or 30 per cent,
if British. 'Flannelette and its associates in
criminality jump from the 15 per cent, to
the 25 per cent, class. Cotton goods, which so
far Australia does not produce, are left at the old
5 per cent, revenue duty when of British origin,
10 per cent, if foreign made. Under the new
tariff the importation of made-up goods will pro-
bably almost cease. It will not pay to introduce
the foreign slop suit and pay a 45 per cent. duty.
A big impetus will be given to the local manufac-
ture of blankets and tweeds. Importations of
fabrics generally will dwindle till they are almost
restricted to cotton goods and to the silks and
velvets of luxury. For the rest, Australia will
clothe itself, and get much better value for its
money than before; as in the matter of foods,
local manufacture will involve local supervision
against shoddy tricks.
* * * *
Under the heading of tools group all the great
industries of a civilised people—the building of
ships and railway engines, the production of pig-
iron and the making of razors, the fashioning of
the plough and of the table. Herein the new
tariff begins to lack in courage. It is resolute in
spots, but often faints by the way. The duty on
furniture is doubled (except in the case of British
furniture, which has a marked preference). Cement,
earthenware, some sorts of glass, stone and
marble, basketware, jewellery, and a score of
other things of that sort get largely increased
Protection. They are among the minor trades
which any semi-developed community is fitted to
carry on. The Bulletin does not profess any
contempt for the tariff because it gives attention
to these. A little extra employment in making
pots, or chairs, or brooches is of value. It means
another taxpayer, another defender, another cus-
tomer for the farmer, in many cases another
family. But after all it is the great industries
which Australia must aim at if it would aspire
to real greatness —the production of iron, the
rolling of rails, the building of ships, the
fashioning of those thousand and one engines of
power and skill which are the most palpable
manifestations of the supremacy of man in nature.
What says the tariff of them ?
Scrap iron, steel, pig-iron, etc. .. 12J per cent.
Iron pipes 10 „
Corrugated and galvanised iron .. 25 „
Machinery various .. From 22J to 27£ „
Marine engines 25 „
Land engines 32£ „
Rails 22J ~
From those main heads it can be seen that a
moderate —strictly moderate, when calculation is
made of the “ dumping ” tactics used to smother
opposition by the great foreign Steel Trusts—
degree of Protection is proposed. But there are
two provisos:—
The duties are to come into operation on dates to be
fixed by proclamation, and goods are exempt from duty
in the meantime. Proclamation to issue so soon as it is
certified to Parliament by the Minister that the manufac-
ture to which the proclamation refers has been sufficiently
established in the Commonwealth.
And there is to come in free
Any dutiable machinery, or machine tool, or any part
thereof specified in any proclamation issued by the Gover-
nor-General in pursuance of a joint address passed
on the motion of Ministers by both Houses of the Parlia-
ment, stating that sueh machinery, machine tool, or part
cannot be reasonably manufactured within the Common-
wealth, and that it should be admitted free.
So for the present it is still Freetrade and hope-
lessness for the iron industry, but the Govern-
ment promises to submit at once a proposal for an
adequate bonus to set the basic manufacture of
these trades on its feet, and thus pave the way
for a proclamation of all these duties.
* * * *
Admittedly the position in regard to the
iron and steel industries is a difficult one. In this
matter Australia has to suffer for the sins of the
past. Foreign competition has been allowed to
smother almost every attempt to set up machine
shops and steel furnaces. Now, when it is pro-
posed to make a start, it is argued that adequate
duties on steel and machinery will act as a heavy
burden on all the industries dependent on
machines, since it will take some years for local
producers to meet local demands. So the pro-
posal is to establish the machinery and steel
industries in the first instance with bonuses,
and then protect them from foreign competition
by a duty. The method has its merits, so long as
action follows closely on the heels of resolve, pro-
vided the bonus is large enough, and the duty
heavy enough, and assuming that the duty
begins before the bonus leaves off. A ma-
chinery industry capable of meeting every
need, from making pig rion to turning out a
turbine engine, Australia must have, and that
promptly. If by bonus, well and good. If not
by bonus, then by duty, even if it means a pinch
on other industries for a while.
* * * *
In its second purpose of encouraging British
manufacture, the Australian tariff goes far enough
to bring the whole question of preferential trade
to the front. How far is preferential trade as a
policy justified ? In so far as preference to Britain
means to damage or retard any reasonably possible
Australian industry, preferential trade is not justi-
fied at all. It is the business of Australia to be
just before it pretends to be generous ; and it can
render no truer service to a sane Imperialism
than by bringing to the highest pitch its own
industrial and defence development. But with-
out directly damaging any Australian industry it
is possible to give an enormous trade advantage
to Britain. Some things we must import; some
things we will import for a time at least, though
there is no real necessity to do so, because a
certain stupid class will prefer things from abroad
to things of local manufacture. By a system
of preference we can direct our lrnportmg
trade into British channels. Is that worth while.
If Britain means to reciprocate—certainly.
But, just now, there is no hope of that, in the
blind fury of its Cobdenism the present British
Government is actually seeking out means to
damage the fraternal trade of its dominions. It
refuses to make a concession on Indian tea
though the concession would be the lowering of a
duty. It is moving to abolish the Sugar Conven-
tion which gave the West Indies some shield
against bounty-fed European beet-sugar. Prob-
ably just out of a feeling of cussedness, it
answers the clamor of the Opposition in
favor of preferential trade by going out
of its way to destroy the accidental advant-
ages that various British possessions now enjoy.
If that attitude is to be the fixed one of Britain,
no Australian preference will last very long.
We may grant it now; but it will be withdrawn very
shortly. There are, however, many reasons urging
to a belief that Great Britain is recovering from
its Cobdenism, and in the near future will be
anxious to reciprocate our preference with conces-
sions in favor of Australian trade. In that belief,
and from a motive of good-will, the present prefer-
ence proposals can be supported as an experiment.
* •* * *
The value of the concessions made to Britain
bv the Australian tariff of 1907 are by no means
so slight as the stupidity or prejudice of the local
Foreign-trade press would have us believe. The
idea has been, in all important industries which
Australia is not considered, as yet, fit to under-
take, to give Freetrade to Britain, whilst keeping
Protection of from 5 to 10 per cent, against the
foreigner. Take two examples, fencing wire
and printing paper. There is no tariff against
British products, but there is 10 per cent, against
the foreigner ; and if the British manufacturer is
of any enterprise at all, he should be able, with
an advantage of 2s. in the £, to monopolise the
Australian market. In those industries such as
fabrics and confectionery, where the Australian
product is highly protected, the British product
is allowed a 5 per cent, preference over the foreign
article, so whatever is imported should come from
England. In some machinery sections the British
manufacturer is allowed Freetrade while the
foreigner pays 5 per cent. Altogether the subsidy
to British trade represents, it is calculated, over
£1,250,000 a year. Such a grant, made without
bargaining and without return, should at least
silence those who accuse Australia of a want of
gratitude in its refusal to further subsidise the
British navy.
* * * *
Taken as a whole, the tariff is fairly satisfactory.
It has, of course, some faults. It needs to be
reinforced with an absolute assurance that it is
not intended to any longer postpone the en-
couragement of the iron and allied industries.
With that pledge, and with the assistance which
the agricultural bounties will give, Australia can
accept this as a fair solution of the problem of
opening up factories to the worker; and can
prepare to go on with the next task—that of open-
ing up the land.
“GOOD FAITH” AND THE AUSTRALIA.
CAPITAL.
The latest contribution to the vast heap of Federal
Capital literature is the pronouncement of the
Australasian Traveller (August number) on
behalf of Yass as the political centre of Australia.
There have been quite a number of confidence
tricks done or attempted upon the easy-going
public of Australia over this matter, but the
Traveller has no new trick to offer. It puts a
certain amount of literary polish on an old one of
decidedly inferior quality, and that is all. Its
keynote is a magnificently cheeky yarn about
“ good faith ” —of all things in the world ;
GOOD FAITH.
This consideration we have no hesitation in putting
first. The understanding between the Premiers of the
various States—under which they agreed to support the
Federal Constitution—was undoubtedly that the Federal
capital should be within reasonable distance of Sydney.
A resolution to this effect was carried unanimously at
their Conference. This was not expressed in so many
words in the Federal Constitution Bill subsequently
agreed to by the whole of the States, but as follows
“ The seat of Government shall be in N. S. Wales, and be
distant not less than 100 miles from Sydney.” We have
it on excellent authority that the Premier of Victoria (Mr.
George Turner) wished to make the limit 200 miles, but
Mr. G. H. Reid, Premier of N. S. Wales, would not agree.
Surely a common-sense view of the intention of the clause,
then, must be that the Federal capital must not be more
than 200 miles from Sydney. This theory is not new,
we know, but it seems sound. As against this, the
claim is made that the intention of the clause was to
allow the most suitable site to be selected in any part of
New South Wales, at whatever distance from Sydney it
might be. The selection of Dalgety is thus justified,
although it is on the extreme border of the State of New
South Wales— i.e., as far as possible from Sydney in a
southerly direction. We have no hesitation in stating
our belief that such a selection is a breach of the real
intention of the clause. Whether we approve of the bar-
gain demanded by New South Wales or not, we say the
first duty of the rest of Australia is to carry it out, not
only in the letter, but in the spirit. And this the selec-
tion of Dalgety will never do.
* * * #
Now, in the first place, it is best to leave any
needless frills about “good faith” out of the
matter. The fixing of the Federal capital clause
in the Constitution was a shameless piece of
political trickery, and ever since it was perpe-
trated George Reid has stood out as the worst
political trickster in Australia; and large, warm-
hearted appeals to a defrauded people to take a
large, generous view of the fraud are quite out of
place. The people of Australia, on the invitation
of Premier Reid, of N.S.W., took steps to create
a Commonwealth, and elected delegates to draft
a Constitution. They had the assurance of the
various State Parliaments that’the Constitution
would get a fair show when it went to the electors
for consideration. N.S.W.’s part of the bargain
was that, if the Convention Bill received a majority
of the votes cast at a referendum, and the affirma-
tive vote numbered not less than 50,000, the
measure would be carried. Then quite a lot of
things happened. First, the N.S.W. State Par-
liament broke its pledge like any other liar and
swindler, by raising the minimum to 80,000.
It did this in the avowed hope of defeating the
Bill, and the N.S.W. Premier didn't intimate
that his Government would stand or fall on
the question of keeping faith with the other
States. Instead of that, Premier Reid distinctly
abetted the unsavory act. Then the same political
sharper stumped the country with an assurance in
his mouth that the Braddon clause (now described
by his party as the only thing that will save the
States from great trouble) was utterly disastrous,
and largely through his infuriated campaign on
this question the 80,000 minimum was not reached
in N.S.W., and the original Bill was lost —that is
to say, it was carried according to the original
agreement with the other States, but not accord-
ing to the fraud perpetrated by the N.S.W. State
Parliament.
* * * *
Next the State Premiers —who had no vestige
of authority from the people to tinker with
the measure which the people’s elected repre-
sentatives had drawn up and which the people
had accepted—proceeded to make alterations in
the measure ; and in the course of these alter-
ations the people discovered that they had again
been tricked by the political bounder Reid.
N.S.W. had been urged to vote against the Bill,
and had to a great extent done so, because of the
allegedly ruinous Braddon clause, yet when
George Reid got the Premiers together he
didn’t demand that the Braddon clause should
be wholly abolished ; what he really wanted, it
proved, was the Federal capital. It is hard to say
whether the second lie and confidence trick was
worse than the first or not; they were both utterly
discreditable. The Conference of Premiers,
tinkering with the Constitution in its own unautho-
rised way, proposed to rob the Australian people of
the right to an absolutely free hand in the choice of
their capital, and to confine their selection within
certain narrow limits defined in a new clause
(No. 125) of the Constitution. The people put up
with the robbery for the sake of Australian union;
they accepted the bargain put before them, and
are bound by that bargain. But the third con-
fidence trick which was attempted on them some
years later, and which is still in full blast, is alto-
gether too impudent. This is the assumption
that the people are bound to submit to be further
limited in their selection and further robbed of
their right of free choice, on account of a docu-
ment said to have been found by Carrutiiers
years after the bargain was closed—a docu-
ment referring to something that isn’t in
the Constitution, something that the people
didn’t accept, and that wasn’t even men-
tioned to them or submitted to them for
acceptance. This document is said to express the
inward “ intentions ” of six State Premiers, but
the hidden intentions of six men have nothing to
do with the case; it is the openly expressed
intentions of the 377,988 people who, by their
votes, accepted clause 125 that count, and
their intentions are expressed in the clause
itself. If the State. Premiers considered
that the clause which allows the capital to be
fixed anywhere in N.S.W. provided it is 100
miles or more from Sydney, should mean that the
capital must not be more than 200 miles from
Sydney, that is their own affair; the people have
only to deal with the bargain submitted to them,
and accepted in good faith by them. The Aus-
tralian Parliament selected a capital site on
Monaro upon the assurance of a specially ap-
pointed N.S.W. official that it was the best loca-
lity, and it can’t suppose that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment deliberately sent its official out to inspect
and recommend illegal sites. The present confi-
dence trick is in itself a solid reason for adhering
to the chosen spot at Dalgety. If the Australian
Parliament backs down it will thereby lend color
to the tale that its selection is a breach of “good
faith.” It is much better for Australia to reso-
lutely pitch its political tent on Monaro, and
then the “good faith” push can carry its case to
the High Court—if it has a case.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
It Would be Cheaper.
Among the members of the trading and huckster-
ing class interviewed by the Sydney papers on
the matter of the Federal budget was Mitchell,
secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, who
threw a memorable remark off his chest. Mit-
chell objected to the establishment of an Austra-
lian arms factory because “ it would be cheaper ”
to import weapons, and the whole soul of
the dealer and the hawker was embodied
in those four words. The middleman is es-
sentially the man who believes in the survival
of the cheapest, and if the matter is put on a
purely cash basis he is often right. It might cer-
tainly be cheaper. But, in this case, the drawback
to the cheap way of doing things that the cheap
man recommends in his cheap little fashion, is that
the time when we are most likely to want arms is
when Britain has lost command of the sea, and
an enemy has got it, and arms can’t be imported.
Then the question will arise (to quote the Scrip-
ture with variations): “What shall it profit a
nation if it save twopence and lose itself ? ” Still,
as Mitchell, of the Chamber of Commerce, truly
remarks, “it would be cheaper.” So, for that
matter, would many other things. A Chinaman
would be cheaper as a secretary of a Chamber of
Commerce than Mitchell is. A nigger army
could be hired to defend England at one-third the
price of the white Tommy Atkins. It costs less
to be dead than to be alive, for it saves board
and lodging. It is probably cheaper to go to hell
than to heaven ; a man can do his fellow-creatures
out of a million pounds and go to perdition, but
it takes a lot of honesty and fair dealing to get to
heaven, and very few fortunes of a million pounds
are made by absolute honesty. The Bulletin re-
spectfully propounds the theory that theclass whose
watch ward is “it would be cheaper ” is a disease;
that it has the soul of the money-changers who
were driven out of the Temple ; that trade has so
eaten into its nature that it would rather sell its
country than not sell anything ; and that it would
dispose of the purity of the Anglo-Saxon race in
order to do a good commercial transaction in low-
priced labor. These theories are advanced in a
purely philosophical spirit, and with no desire to
be offensive. This paper isn’t really angry with
the crowd* whose one idea is that something
would be’cheaper. That crowd is a product of ages
of jobbing, dealing, trading, hawking, huckstering,
bargaining, and clamoring in the market-place;
of centuries of buying and selling, and being a
bull to-day and a bear to-morrow; of generations
spent in floating companies, syndicates, and
wild cats, poring over ledgers, day-books, and
invoices, dodging, adulterating, and snatch-
ing profits wherever they could be found. And
whether the commodity is a nation’s safety or a
pound of cheese, such a class naturally thinks of
cheapness first of all.
♦
A Healthy Squeal from Queensland.
One of the best signs of the times is that the
“investor” begins to squeal because he cant
invest. At the annual meeting of the Queensland
Trustees Co., Brentnall, M.L.C., deplored that
the co. had to sendmoney away because there is
no home demand for it. Also, he said, “ we have
realised on investments for clients now in Great
Britain a total of £15,499 because they say they
can do better with the money' there than here ;
and Brentnall, M.L.C., said that it was very
shocking that things should be like this “m a
young country of amazing capabilities. lhe
“amazing capabilities” are here all right; the
trouble is that there are also so many amazing m-
capables. For, as Brentnall, M.L.G.,. discover,


it isn’t much use having magnificent agricultural
lands if the lands are not used for agriculture, but
are kept locked up by big landowners who are
content to use them for sheep walks. Also, it
doesn’t profit Brentnall, M.L.0., and the rest of
Australia to have magnificent coal and iron if the
ports are free or thereabouts to the products of
lands where they have cheaper labor, or where the
business has been firmly established, so that it is
the foreign coal and the foreign iron that are
used, and not the Australian. A country that
hasn’t got any amazing capabilities at all can
open its ports, just as a person without any amaz-
ing capabilities can stand with iiis mouth open.
“ There is not much recovery in value of town
properties,” says the chairman of the Trustees Co.,
“ nor much disposition to invest in them.” Then,
having remarked that “ this probably arises from
the small increase in opportunity for work in our
cities ” (which is perfectly true), the ancient poli-
tician new off in the fashion that might be
expected of a man who suddenly remembered
that he belonged to the House of Fat—flew off to
mouth the dreary old platitude that “if we had
less free southern competition and more immigra-
tion, we should have more manufacturing enter-
prise, and a resultant rise in property values.”
Granted that some Queensland factories have
temporarily suffered through the inter-State Free-
trade that came with Federation, Brentnall,
M.L.C., and the rest of Queensland might,
anyhow, remember that, if Federation made
the trade of Queensland free to the other
States, it also made the trade of the other
States free to Queensland. While, therefore,
Queensland sent to the other States of the Com-
monwealth goods valued at £8,374,988 in 1906, it
sent only £3,307,298 to places beyond the Com-
monwealth. On the other hand, of its imports
only £2,431,361 came from other States of the
Commonwealth; in other words, it exported to
the other States £5,943,627 more than it imported
from them. (Queensland Government Statis-
tician’s “ A.B.C. of Queensland Statistics, 1906.”)
It imported from Great Britain alone more than
it imported from all the States put together;
from Great Britain it imported three times as
much as from Victoria, in spite of the latter’s
alleged Australian manufacturing supremacy ;
and from the United States it imported as much
and nearly half as much again as it did from all the
Australian States put together, excepting the two
mentioned. Queensland’s big trouble, then, isn’t
“free southern competition.” It at lea.st gets
something in return for that “free competition ; ”
in fact all the trade prdfit it makes comes from the
south. But it gets nothing iii return for the almost
free foreign competition to which it is exposed;
neither Germany nor the United States abated as
much as 'OOS of 1 percent, of their duties because the
Foreign-traders from Queensland conspired with
the Foreign-traders from the other States to pare
down Kingston’s tariff in many places to vanish-
ing point. If the other States were getting the
advantage, instead of the foreigner, the other
States would be getting the immigration that
Brentnall truly says would follow industrial ex-
pansion. The foreigner, however, doesn’t immi-
grate to Australia, because if he did he wouldn’t
get the Australian work to do that he gets by
remaining a foreigner. And because he can get
the Australian work to do by keeping away from
Australia, Brentnall’s company can’t sell the
foreigner any land, and it can’t lend him any
money to finance his business with. Wherefore
Brentnall wails. But he can wail for 70 years
and it won’t make any difference so long as
Brentnall and his friends continue their present
land and fiscal policies.
♦
The Need for Heal Protection.
The publication in Victoria of Factory-Inspector
Ord’s annual report caused a Foreign-trade whoop
in that State. The report supplied the following
figures relating to registered factories in Victoria
for 1905 and 1906 :
1905. 1906. Increase.
Number of factories .. 4,623 4,766 143
Number of employees .. 63,270 67,545 4275
These figures were made by the importers the
occasion for a yell to the effect that the “ enor-
mous” prosperity of Victorian factories proved
any change in the tariff to be superfluous. The
yellers took no notice of other facts. They
neglected the fact that out of 150 trades tabulated
by Ord no fewer than Jfi had shown an
actual decrease in the number of hands employed
when 1906 was compared with 1905. They forgot
that Victoria’s employment, such as it is, is
largely due, since the lamentable cutting down of
the tariff, to the displacing of men by boys, so
that Trades Hall Dobson was able to tell the
Chief Secretary that in one furniture shop there
were 27 boys and four journeymen ; in another, 31
boys and 27 journeymen ; while bootmaker
Long quoted figures showing an aggregate
among boot-clickers in various shops of 81
men to 89 boys. The importers likewise
omitted the complaints of men in the iron and
shipbuilding trades, that they had been out of
work for months during the year, and had not
averaged 30s. a week. Those who foamed against
extra Protection rested their case solely on the
figures. And against those figures there suddenly
arrived the “ importation ” statistics prepared by
Statistician Knibbs. They were :
Imports in 1906 .. .. ... £44,729,506
Increase .. .. .. £6,382,775
All these figures require to be considered together,
in order to see whether 1906, that year of thump-
ing prosperity, worked for the advantage of the
Australian manufacturer, or for the largely-
German foreigner. The examination of the
figures gives these results :
Increase in Victorian factories ' . .. 3'l per cent.
Increase in Victorian factory employees 6'7 per cent.
Increase in Imports to Australia .. 161 per cent.
Increase of Australian Imports from
Britain 12'4 per cent.
Increase of Australian Imports from
Germany 29'6 per cent.
In a year of splendid prosperity, were our indus-
tries guarded by a proper system of Protection,
they would make progress which would go a long
way towards placing them beyond all danger of
strangulation by the importer. The result is alto-
gether different. With the whole of the Austra-
lian market open to them, Victorians have
increased their factory employment by only 6'7
per cent.; while the foreigner (especially the
German) has grabbed an increase more than two-
and-a-half times as big. Now 1907 is another year
of prosperity, and, if 1908 is the same, there will
be an immense market for Australian manufac-
tures, provided a proper tariff is passed. Is
all the benefit of this prosperity in the primary
industries to go to foreigners ?
A Business that Gets no Help.
Fob something like 10 years Australia has been
struggling to establish a zinc or spelter industry.
The raw materials—coal and zinc ore—are here in
as great quantities probably as anywhere else in
the world ; so, if ever there was a “ natural
industry,” this is one. There is so much of the
coal that, up to the end of last year, N. S. Wales
alone had exported 77,353,092 tons of it; there is
so much of the zinc ore that, in the last two years,
the same State has exported over 200,000 tons of
concentrates —ore, that is, which has been passed
through a cheap process to get out a little of the
dirt. Australia has had the job of carrying out
this cheap process; then the product has been
mostly shipped in vessels subsidised by foroig*
Governments to feed foreign zinc-smelting works,
and provide employment for foreign zinc-smelters.
Most of these foreign works have been established
so long that they can now treat zinc in their sleep ;
they have vast scientific and businessorganisations,
mostly they have their own home markets pro-
tected and secured to themselves, and they have
staffs of skilled workmen. The Australian zinc-
producer, on the other hand, simply has to feel
his way. He hasn’t the resources, he hasn’t the
organisation, he hasn’t the trained staff. His
work is, so far, nearly all experimental, carried on
m a field where even small experiments empty
long purses. One or two companies have tried,
and have lost so much money that the big Aus-
tralian producers of zinc concentrates have given
up the struggle, and now sell their concentrates,
dirt and all, to the foreigner. Those that have
persisted, and have produced metal, have found
the foreigner at their throats immediately. For
it is the foreigner’s business to kill the Aus-
tralian shelter industry. He is doubly in-
terested in the murder; because in the
first place he wants the Australian raw product
to feed his own furnaces with, and in the
second place he wants the job of making the
world’s spelter. And his Government helps him
to accomplish both ends, first by its shipping
subsidies on crude ores, and then by its tariff.
The Australian market for zinc certainly isn’t
big; but if a market of even that size were guar-
anteed, the zinc-producer would have some encour-
agement to pursue his experiments, perfect his pro-
cesses (for it has to be remembered that every
ore calls for its own special treatment), and thus
get strong enough to make some show in the
world’s market. But under the new tariff
he doesn’t get even that much help. Zinc,
bar, scrap, and sheet, is free; even when the
Minister has been satisfied that “the manufacture
has been sufficiently established,” the general
duty on spelter is to be only 10 per cent.; and
there will be a lot of people interested in seeing
that it doesn’t get “sufficiently established” at
all. Germany, knowing what a fine labor-provider
the zinc business is, grants subsidies and bonuses;
and it wouldn’t do that merely for the good of its
health —the figures show why it does it. Metallic
zinc was worth last year about £2B per ton ; yet
the average declared value of the 40 or 45 per
cent, ore exported from Broken Hill was only
£2 10s. per ton. That means that, apart from the
very valuable silver and lead contents, the ore
held £l2 worth of zinc ; and alb Australia got for
the lot was £2 10s. The silver and the lead and
the £9 10s. were the foreigners’ share. No wonder
the foreigner shoots out his hand to grab this rich
Australian dirt; no wonder he shuts his hand and
uses his fist when the Australian struggles to get
the metal out of his own dirt. The amazing
thing is that no matter which he does, Australia
takes both attentions lying down —and still, in
this particular, lies down even when it is framing
a new tariff intended to put industrial Australia
on its feet.
The Stricken Importer.
When the new tariff was announced the Foreign-
trade papers sent out the boy reporter in haste
to collect opinions—mostly the opinions of im-
porters—and wild and woolly and remarkable
were the ideas that the boy-reporter brought
back. The Sydney Evening News youth got one
opinion to the effect that, because of the duty of
7s. 6d. on imported chairs, everybody would have
to stand up for the future ; sitting down would be
too expensive. Apparently that authority was
convinced (1) that Australia doesn’t make any
chairs; (2) that Australia hasn’t sense enough
ever to learn to make chairs; and (3) that Aus-
tralians must therefore pay the duty on the
imported chair for all time, or else sit on the floor.
Next the boy-reporter found a frenzied idiot who
said the tariff was absurd because the States
already “ have overflowing Treasuries, and do
not know what to do with the money.” When
it is considered that the States have about
£240,000,000 of debt to pay off with the
overflow of the Treasuries, and that not one of
them has started to systematically reduce its debt
or has even so much as definitely stopped adding
to its debt, it is hard to consider the Sydney
mercantile person who uttered that tremendous
rot as a rational being. Then there were two or
three persons who saw in the tariff some kind of a
Victorian conspiracy—doubtless because of the
aid it gives to the purely N.S.W. industry of
piano-malting; and a depressed person who
said it would be quite impossible to make certain
simple cotton goods in N.S.W. for “ very many
-years ”; and two exultant opponents of Aus-
tralian industry who said that now N.S.W. would
see what it got by joining the Federation. They
at least were fairly correct. N.S.W. now does
see what it has got —it has got a “ stiddv job ”
and it throws its hat up half a mile and says
“ Hooray ! ” Another most “ amoosin’ cuss” was
found by a morning rag sitting speechless amid
his stock of imported pianos. He had a wild and
glassy eye, and had to be spoken to twice before
he began to take notice. Then he said things :
The attitude is one of absolute amazement.
Pianos, taxed already 20 per cent., are now to be taxed
40 per cent. It simply means that all but the wealthy
classes will have to put up with inferior instruments. The
average family is able to go a certain price for a piano.
At that price we can now give them an instrument of a
certain quality—a good instrument, an instrument that
music can be got out of. Under this tariff we can only
give them, for the same price, an instrument 20 per cent,
lower quality, because with pianos you can’t go on rais-
ing the price—the people simply can’t pay.
So it will come to this—that the people must be con-
tent with an inferior article or go without. In the one
case trade suffers ; in the other case the whole musical
taste and training of the people will suffer.
It is simply staggering.
Like the chair man, the piano man carefully
ignored the fact that pianos—mighty good pianos
which don’t pay any duty, which won’t have their
cost increased even if the tariff is 100 per cent.,
and which employ Australian workmen and Aus-
tralian capital, and pay wages, rent and taxes in
Australia —are manufactured right at his door
in Sydney. The miserably unpatriotic importer
always professes never to have heard of Aus-
tralian industry. They are a weird lot, these
importers.
■ ♦
Australia as Japan’s Wood-and-Water-Joey.
The Foreign-trader who reckons that distance and
freight are enough Protection for Australia ought
to turn up the list of new Japanese shipping
subsidies. For 1906 Japan’s imports and exports
put together amounted to only £89,000,000 as
against Australia’s £114,000,000; yet the Monkey
co. working the North China trade is to get
£53,000 a year, the Yang-tse service £BO,OOO a
year for five years, the Vladivostock and Korean
services over £50,000 a year each, and the sub-
sidies for the Philippine, Australian and other
trade are to be in proportion. The object—
undisguised for once—is to get Monkey manu-
factures into foreign countries and grab raw pro-
ducts in return. To stop the importation of flour
and get wheat instead, the duty on flour has lately
been pushed up to £2 ss. per ton, and simul-
taneously six new flour-mills are projected—all
to be fostered by the Government. Also just
at present the Japs have great hopes of
a leather business. The four big tanneries of the
country have amalgamated within the last few
months, with a capital of £500,000, and they are
now clawing in raw hides from Korea and
Formosa, and are preparing to exploit the Aus-
tralian market. They look upon Australia as
about good enough to mind cows, and kill them,
and skin them; the Nippon people want the
skilled jobs of making and working up the leather
for themselves. In 1905 Japan imported leather
valued at £836,817; but in 1906 the total fell to
£ll9,Bl6—the Monkey tanner, helped by the
practically prohibitive duty, had got a very effect-
ive move on meantime. The same thing is
happening with regard to wool. Japan hitherto
bought scoured wool in Australia. But on the
subsidised Jap lines greasy wool is to be carried
for about one-third of the freight for scoured; it
is reckoned that that will stop Australia from
even having the job of washing the dirt out of its
own wool. It is a beautiful prospect that the
Imperial Monkey fixes up for himself, this of
turning Australia into one of his wood-and-wate
joeys.
“This Colonial Stuff.”
Fob a long while past Peter Rodger, contractor
for the new Melbourne railway station, has been
using Commonwealth cement, made in N. S.
Wales; and he has used it with satisfaction ; so
has James Malone, who wood-blocks Melbourne
streets for the City Council; so has the Melbourne
Board of Works—2o,ooo barrels of it. There are
350,000 casks of it in the Cataract dam (N.S.W.),
and other thousands of casks in other works all
over the country, and so far it has proved very
good cement. It is cheap, also; for it costs
10s. 4d. a cask in Melbourne, while English or
German cement costs 13s. a cask. But last week
the Victorian Railway Commissioners informed
contractor Rodger that the N. S. Wales cement
was not quite up to the mark in “constancy of
volume,” though it fulfilled all other tests,
and that in future he must use English
cement only. The Victorian Railway Commis-
sioners thereby insinuate that Mr. Malone, the
Melb. Board of Works, the Sydney Water Supply
engineers, the builders of sundry Monier bridges
around the country, and a whole lot of other
people who have used Commonwealth cement,
and will make heavy losses if they have paid for
an unreliable article, don’t know what they are
doing, and that they—the said Commissioners—
are the pea, the only real, genuine know-alls.
Mr. Rodger and another well-known Melbourne
business man thereupon significantly say that
they “don’t want to say all they could in this
matter, as it is not judicious,” doubtless in view
of pending and probable contracts. Evidently
there are quite a lot of persons in authority in
Victoria who, in spite of Parliamentary instruc-
tions to encourage Australian industry, per-
sistently ignore and flout those instructions
whenever they get a chance—as witness the
episodes of the German pianos, the Vienna-
made chairs, the Chow-made furniture in
the new public offices, etc. What is the
explanation? What is this thing that men could
say only it wouldn’t be “judicious” ? It can only
be guessed; but the step that follows should be
obvious enough. Even an anti-Australian public
officer, who had got into a very favorable state of
mind indeed with regard to some foreign goods,
would not often venture to prescribe them if the
importers had to drag them over a high tariff
wall. In fact, the chances are that the importer
wouldn’t then find it worth his while to present
such telling arguments to the public officer as he
apparently can use when a low tariff doesn’t make
much difference between the , local price of the
two kinds of goods.
4.
A Hypocritical Purity Clause.
At the instance of a Snuffle Society, Presbyterian
James Balfour has proposed in the Victorian
Legislative Council to add a clause to the Police
Offences Act imposing penalties on the landlords
of what the daily press calls “certain places.”
The clause provides, according to a newspaper
summary,
that any person who let any house to a tenant knowing
that it was to be used as a disorderly house, or any' per-
son who was wilfully a party to the use of such a house
as a disorderly house, should be guilty of an offence
against the Act, for which he should be liable to a flue
not exceeding £2O.
The first part is obviously ineffective. How could
it ever be proved that a landlord, Presbyterian or
otherwise, knew the purpose for which the modest
lady was going to use the property ? The second
part of the clause, with its “ wilfully a party,”
was explained by Balfour to mean that if the
landlord had power to terminate the tenancy,
he must do so ; if he was bound by the lease, of
course he could not be liable. So the procedure is
plain. The more dubious the tenant, the longer
and more effective the lease can be made; and
the owner will probably stick another pound on
to the rent because of the new law. If he puts £1
a week on to the rent, a fine which may be ss. and
can’t be more than £2O will do him no harm. The
clause is a fine example of how a legislator can
satisfy the Snuffle Society without disturbing
the incomes of the pious folk who draw rent from
the ladies with the large feathers in their hats.
For instance, the landlord who has unwittingly
(they all do it unwittingly) let his house to
Phryne on a very long lease at a very high rent
might be given an opportunity to clear his con-
science and tear himself away from the very high
rent by simply enacting that when a house is used
for “ immoral purposes ” the lease shall be abso-
lutely null and void. That would prevent any
rich and pious landlord being compelled, much
against his will, to take the heavy wages of
iniquity regularly every week for three or five
years after the dreadful facts have come to his
knowledge ; but nothing of the kind is proposed.
And why not add that the demanding of a rent
which is unusually high, compared to the rents
paid by moral tenants for similar houses in the
same district, shall be held as evidence that the
respectable landlord had his own views about
the lady with the large hat and the feather when
he did business with her? That isn’t proposed
either.
The High Commissionership—and Certain
Rubbish.
One of the few wholly admirable things in
American politics is the wise choice made of the
representatives of the nation abroad. The
American ambassadors sent to important courts,
beginning with Benjamin Franklin, have been,
almost without exception, men of the highest
character. In Australia there is a sedulous effort
to create a tradition that the High Commissioner-
ship—our one important ambassadorial post—
should be a sort of rubbish bin —the refuge of some
mentally-afflicted has-been, or the means of getting
rid of some awkward personality. For a long
time it was strongly argued that John Forrest
was the man for the High Commissionership,
because his special disqualifications made, him an
unsafe man in any post of responsibility in Aus-
tralia. (Malcolm McEacharn was also strongly
supported for some time until he took refuge in a
Jap Consulate, a billet for which he was exactly
fitted.) Now that Forrest is out of the way, the
Anti-Australians and certain foolish Austra-
lians —who think that whilst we should be
careful as to the quality of our exported
mutton and butter, the quality of our ex-
ported High Commissioner doesn’t matter —
support the idea of giving the appointment to
G. Reid, that most industrious slanderer of the
Commonwealth. To send G. Reid to London
would be disastrous. He has no shining personal
or political reputation. His whole political life
has been devoted to preaching that Australia is a
wretched helot land only fit to carry on a few
primary industries. His every idea is foreign to
an honest, upright championship of the Common-
wealth. No real Australian could ever again give
a vote to a Government which enthroned before
the world as the representative Australian the
man who invented the Anti-Sosh lie, unless,
indeed, the choice lay between that Government
and the Anti-Sosh lie itself. Let us have a High
Commissioner of parts, if possible ; of dignified
reputation, certainly. Better the dullest J aok in
the house than Yes-No.
»
A YARN that is worth considering
Fetish is an amazing thing, and the S.M. Herald has
the disease in an aggravated form. It still lives in the
days when the British fleet really did boss all the oceans
of the world, and cannot realise that that day has passed.
It regards the entertaining of such a thought as disloyal,
regardless of the fact that all that Britain desires to boss
just at present are the North Sea and the North Atlantic
Ocean. So it denounces in the loudest screech that ever
issued from the office in Hunter-street the proposal to
discontinue the naval tribute. It admits that the idea
of an Australian navy is a good one, and that it
is necessary that Australia should build, arm and equip
its own battleships; but what is Australia to do in the
meantime if the subsidy is cut off ? Who will protect us
till the Australian navy is built ? That is the question.
Apparently the Herald imagines that the floating heap
of scrap iron called the Australian Squadron is really a
protection. If it does, it is likely to be horribly dis-
illusioned if we strike trouble before the Australian navy
is built. The reason why Australia proposes to abolish
the Naval Tribute is that the ships we get in
return are about as much real protection as the
painted forts and wooden quaker guns with which
the Chinese made Pekin look formidable. That is
the chief argument in favor of the abolition of the tribute:
It creates a sense of security that is utterly unjustifiable,
and by its soporific influence prevents the country setting
to work in deadly earnest to provide its own defence.
Were there no Australian Squadron the question would
become a burning one, and such an agitation would be
created by the sight of our defenceless harbors and cities,
that the work of defence would become the greatest
question of the day. If the squadron were withdrawn
next week we should not be any more defenceless than
we are to-day, but while we can look on the Powerful
surrounded by its trim but obsolete satellites, we can
imagine we are safe. It is the story of Gaul and Rome
over again. While they gazed on the eagles the Gauls
imagined themselves safe under the aigis of Rome,
When the Guns Begin to Bark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Japan is building' a twenty-thousand-ton battleship.—
Cablegram.
Loud the drums of Time are booming—hear their
thund’rous admonition —
Hear, Australians, hear the Message throbbing
loud across the sea ;
Are your fleets upon the waters ? Are your armies
in position ?
Hark ! I hear the forges roaring—roaring hymns
of Destiny !
Far away the cranes are swaying—loud the
Nasmyths clang and bellow—
Hear the arsenals a-clamor round the ship-frames
huge and stark;
They are toiling while ye quarrel!—must the
White bow down to Yellow ?
Ye shall learn Regret’s sad lesson, When the Guns
Begin to Bark !
Ye shall curse the years ye wasted—ye shall
howl in depths of terror,
When the guns blast forth destruction in the days
of bitter woe ;
When Australia’s blazing cities flame like monu-
ments of error,
Ye shall learn at last the lesson other lands learned
long ago !
When the War-God lifts his banner ye shall find
that life is earnest —
Down the ages ye shall carry Retribution’s death-
less mark;
From the lips of preaching cannon ye shall hear
that gospel sternest —
And the paltry creeds shall crackle When the Guns
Begin to Bark !
All the lies and all the liars shall be blotted out
for ever —
Shall thy shibboleths avail thee, O thou blind
Democracy ?
Thou shalt learn that men must labor —make in-
cessant, grim endeavor,
When the steel-clad ships of battle vomit hell on
thine and thee !
Every shot shall teach thee wisdom ; every shell
shall be a sermon —-
Homes a-blaze create in darkness Reason’s vital,
vanished spark;
Forth shall creep, in fear and trembling, all the
bloated Tory vermin—
What an exodus of insects —When the Guns Begin
to Bark !
Loud the drums of Time are booming—hear their
thund’rous admonition —
Hear, Australians, hear the Message throbbing
loud across the sea ;
Are your fleets upon the waters l Are your armies
in position ?
Hark! I hear the forges roaring—roaring hymns
of Destiny !
Far away the cranes are swaying and the Nasmyths
clang and bellow —
Hear the earnest Japs a : clamor round the ship-
frames huge and stark ;
They are toiling uhile ye quarrel—lest the white
man serve the yellow ,
I Get your ships and sailors ready ere the Guns
Begin to Bark!
vib.
GRANT HERVEY.


although Honoritts had withdrawn the bulk of the
legions to protect the heart of the empire. They peti-
tioned the Emperor to allow certain sporting events to
be resuscitated, but never asked to be allowed to form a
militia. And the Goth and the Frank ate them up.
Britain has called the battleships home for the defence of
the heart of the empire, and left us a skeleton squadron,
even as Hoxorius left Gaul skeleton legions, and unless
we prepare for the day of trouble the Jap and the Ohow
will eat us up. But while St. George’s Cross floats over
the Austral waters that work will not be commenced, so
the 3ooner the modern Rome takes its floating skeleton
legions to join the battleships that are massed to meet
the Teuton in the North Sea and the English Channel, the
quicker will the Australian Navy grow.
The Partially-Paid M.P.
Incidental to the tariff which is to make a
genuine effort to protect Australian industry, the
Australian Government might with advantage
consider the case of the sweated industry of poli-
tics. It is not an evil arising from foreign com-
petition, but it is none the less a serious danger to
Australia. The real explanation of its existence —
though probably members would be reluctant to
confess it —is a worm-like affectation of humble-
ness. The M.P. takes up the attitude of
the poor mild clerk who isn’t prepared to
stand up like a man and ask for a fair wage,
but is respectfully ready to take anything that is
offered to him. Every member —excepting one
or two whom wealth or stupidity prevents from
reasoning on the subject—knows that the present
Parliamentary allowance is inadequate, that it
doesn’t represent even a living wage after inevi-
table deductions are made. But, instead of, like
honest laborers, demanding an honest hire, they
affect timidity; they want to wait until “the
boss” insists. It’s not a dignified attitude. The
Bulletin, for one, refuses to believe that Aus-
tralia wishes to “ sweat ” its politicians; that it
is desirous of paying about £2OO a year (which is
the amount left over, on an average, from the
present Parliamentary salary, after deducting
strictly necessary expenses and allowing for any
small perquisites). If The Bulletin tried to pay
its staff at that rate it would expect to rapidly
become a very poor paper. If Australia tries to
pay its Parliament on such mean lines it will in
time get a very poor Parliament. Australia
wants politicians who are worth £lOOO a year,
and it can’t hope to get them, except in very rare
instances and by very rare accident, unless it pays
their value.
Preacher Bevan, of Melbourne, is at all times a
powerful pro-Chow, and after a holiday trip to
China he tells Melbourne “there is nothing to
fear from the ‘ yellow peril,’ as the general trend
of the Chinese race is towards the development of
China.” One does not need to go to China to
learn that much, and it isn’t much of an
observation, anyhow. In the maddest days
of the French Revolution, the general trend
of the French was towards the development
of France; and even while Chancellorville and
Gettysburg were being fought to a finish the
general trend of the Americans was towards the
development of the U.S. But even the small
minority that forsook the general trend and
howled on the gory battlefield was large enough
to shake the earth a good deal. Bevan, the Chow-
lover, maundering in his empty church, is an un-
convincing spectacle. A man’s first business is to
know his own job; when he is a dead failure at that
his opinion about someone else’s job becomes an
unconsidered trifle. Bevan is supposed to know
more about preaching than anything else, and his
empty tabernacle suggests thathecan’tpreachwith
success. Therefore when he starts as a prophet, and
a political authority, and an expert on the move-
ments and tendencies of 400,000,000 strange people,
the public simply tells him to go and find a job
nearer his own size.
—♦
“ Two Seas ” describes a curious situation :
The political outlook in the Goulburn (N.S.VV.) elec-
torate is enough to make Jokekruthers lift himself out
of his boots by his ears.
First, Tommy Rose got a flying start, and held enthusi-
astic meetings all through the country centres what time
the wire-pullers were wrangling about the selection of a
candidate to run in the Gibbering and Deform League
interest.
A little crowd fought hard to give Conroy another start,
but Alfred, mindful of the licking Hall gave him, asked
for a strong requisition, and no requisition of any sort was
forthcoming.
Many meetings were held by the Deformers, and the
more they met and argued the more they differed, until
the local league got itself tied up into such a knot that
even the faithful Penny Post jeered at it.
Finally, Mr. Augustus James, barrister, of Sydney, was
brought forward, and Tom Rose was asked to submit his
name for the final choice by vote of the delegates from
the various branches of the Deform League. But Thomas,
who had got nearly six months’ start, refused to hearken
to the invitation of “Willy, dilly, come and be killed.”
In effect, he volunteered to submit his name if his selec-
tion was guaranteed. This offer didn’t seem to satisfy
the supporters of Augustus Jim.
So three of Tom’s supporters, in public meeting assem-
bled, formed a league on their own and christened it the
“United Branches of the Liberal and Reform Associa-
tion.” Then things began to frizzle.
To complicate matters, one James Gegg announced that
he intends to fight to a finish as an “ independent,” backed
by the liquor interest and “ pure sportsmen.” James is
going very strong, and has formed himself into the “ Goul-
burn and District People’s League,” which, with the
P.L.L., makes four leagues.
Holloway, the Labor candidate, meanwhile stands on
velvet, and poor Jokekruthers issues impassioned
appeals through the local press to Augustus, James and
Tommy to settle their differences and rally round him.
+
“A.Z.”: The landowner gets at the Victorian
Closer Settlement Board rather badly. An instance
is the Keayang estate, eight miles south of Terang.
This estate, or rather 1050 acres of it, was pur-
chased from the Staughton family, at about £lO
per acre. The Board cut it up into 12 farms,
advertised it far and wide, and then held a sitting
at Terang to sort out the multitude of applicants.
But only four applicants eventuated. The Board
gave them each a block, in a violent hurry, lest
they should get away without one. That was on
June 6. I write this at the end of July,
and so far the other eight blocks are tenant-
less. Being of an inquiring turn of mind,
and knowing that there are hundreds of
people in the district eager for land, I drove a
prospective settler down to the estate. The shy-
ness of the settler was at once explained. To
begin with, the Board paid just about double the
value of the land. (It is charging, on the aver-
age, £lO 16s. per acre for it.) Then there are no
roads to it. Also it is very wet and cold. The
writer, in a light buggy, had to negotiate a
swamp, and the worst road and the worst hills he
has been on for some years. Until something is
done to the roads, the settlegs will have to bring
their milk out on packhorses, or per flying-
machine. Found out that the Board bought the
place at the end of summer, when the country
was nice and dry, and the grass (it is very late
country) was lovely and green. The land is so
poor that, so far as I could judge, no family could
make a living off a single block. About the only
satisfied persons are the Staughtons, and they
ought to feel more ashamed than satisfied.
No exception can be taken to Customs Minister
Chapman’s recent decision, under the Commerce
Act regulations, that Australian brandies must
not be described as “Cognac.” Given a fair run,
Australian brandies are quite good enough to win
on their own merits, and don’t require to be
helped along with an unwarranted title stolen
from France. Also, it is a good thing that Aus-
tralian brandies should be known as such, and
should make their reputation as Australian, and
not as something which they are not. Unfor-
tunately, another of Minister Chapman’s decrees
—that foreign imported brandies may bear the
name “Cognac,” irrespective of the place of
origin—doesn’t seem to give the Australian
article the fair show to which it is entitled.
The description “ Cognac ” was originally applied
solely to the product of the Cognac dis-
trict of France, which has come to be con-
sidered something away up in the spirit
line, but of late years “ a custom has grown
up in the . trade ’ of calling any brandy “Cog-
nac.” This is just like “the trade.” Itisques-
tionable if there is one case in which “a custom
grew up in the trade ” without the object of the
custom being to swindle and deceive somebody.
The result of this lie and fraud is that Australian
brandy, instead of having to compete against a
small quantity of real Cognac (which it might do)
and a vast lot of German, Yankee, and other
brandy (which it could easily do), has to compete
against an unlimited supply of liquor bearing a
name which is in itself a splendid advt. If it
were seriously proposed, for instance, that Aus-
tralian 15-carat jewellery must be 15-carat, but
that imported 9-carat jewellery might be marked
15-carat, so that the imported 15-carat ring could
always undersell the Australian one, Mr. Chap-
man might see the point. The foreign sham
“ Cognac ” ought to be as firmly suppressed as the
Australian sham “Cognac.”
A quaint analogy drawn by the Sydney
Telegraph
The influence exercised by a small body of determined
men concentrated on one purpose, has been illustrated by
the proceedings in the Federal Parliament over the West
Australian Survey Bill. From the beginning both members
and Senators have solidly backed the proposal. Every
Government, the Barton, the Deakin, the Watson, the
Reid, and the Deakin again, has given its adherence to
the survey, has either submitted it or used all its power
to get it passed. The same influence, the same consoli-
dated and directed effort from N.S.W. to secure a settle-
ment of the capital, would have had the site chosen, and
the city laid out years ago.
Westralia, by the way, hasn’t got its railway, or
even its survey yet, any more than N.S.W. has
got the capital; still there are signs that it will
get the survey before N.S.W. gets the capital.
And the reason is that there is no party in Wes-
tralia that calls the survey a “wrong” and an
“outrage,” and no fool-Premier who threatens
dreadful things unless he is allowed to lay out the
entire route himself. Even the member from the
far north of Westralia whoops for this railway in
the far south, over 1000 miles away, but when
the member from the middle of N.S.W. is offered
a capital in the south, 250 miles away, he generally
mumbles “Federal outrage.”
* .
C.N.” writes
In your recent sbowing-up of the fallacy, of “ trade
the wonderful Freetrade fetish accomplished by adding
imports and exports together and then standing before
the result with bated breath—you omitted any reference
to what is possibly the most complete knock-out of this
ridiculous theory on record. The instance I refer to is
that of Australia itself. Prior to Federation, when Aus-
tralia consisted fiscally of six different States, they were
continually interchanging their goods, and all these
interchanges were carefully added together to make a
fine upstanding mass of figures which the Freetrade
economist used to stay awake at nights gloating over.
Then Federation came along, and, sad to say, £55,000,000
of beautiful Australian “trade” vanished into thin air.
The interchange of goods went on on a vastly bigger
scale than ever—the same kind of goods, sold in the same
places by the same people; but because it was no longer
the external trade of six hostile States, but the internal
trade of one Commonwealth, it ceased to be “ trade ” for
statistical purposes. It had passed into the outer gloom of
the solar system, and according to all Freetrade argument
Australia w r as gone bung. It is a solemn fact that
you could easily make the “trade” of Australia
£1,000,000,000 a year simply by cutting up the
country into a sufficiently large number of can-
tankerous States with no central authority. If Sydney,
Paddington and Bondi were three separate States, you
could make two exports and two imports out of lib. of
butter carried from Paddy’s Market to Bondi Beach in
an omnibus, and on the trip there and back you could
export the three-horse team four times and import it
four times, making a total trade of 24 horses. On the
other hand, if Europe decided to federate and be
one great peaceful State, it is awful to relate that some
two thousand million pounds’ worth of annual trade
would vanish right there —and the public would be better
off instead of worse. In this direction lies one of the
secrets of British commerce. Britain reckons all goods
sent from the British Isles—the nucleus of the Empire—
to the places which form the rest of the Empire as foreign
trade. Russia and the United States reckon that sort of
thing as internal commerce the kind which isn’t
counted ; they only describe their exports to countries
not under their flag as trade. And that makes a differ-
ence—a heap of difference.
The new Sydney lifeboat, recently built at
Cockatoo Dock, was launched on Friday last
week. It was decided, after much bitter argu-
ment, to get the boat built locally, and the result
has justified the decision. Despite the fact that
the cost of materials is high, that wages are high,
and also that some special parts—pumps, valves,
etc. —had to be specially designed and made, the
actual cost was only £606, as against £625 quoted
for an imported boat. If the Government dock
could get “repeat” orders for some of the work,
the cost of the job would be still less. The
materials used are Australian throughout, with
the exception of a small quantity of Maoriland
pine in the fittings. The boat, when capsized,
rights itself in five seconds, and empties itself of
water in 35 seconds. Governor Rawson, who
knows something of the subject, is delighted with
the new vessel. Its sphere of usefulness is pro-
bably limited, as its existence is more in the nature
of a moral obligation in a big port like Sydney
than an actual necessity. But, as an example of
Australian industry, it is all there.
According to the Sydney dailies— the S.M.
Herald and Daily Telegraph-- the results of recent
public experiments held in that city with the Tyree
automatic sprayer, the invention of a Sydney business
gentleman whose name it bears, amply demonstrate
that the machine is destined to prove a boon to the
farmer and pastoralist for destroying prickly pear, lan-
tana, and other noxious weeds, and likewise to city cor-
porations in the matter of dust-laying and tar-sprinkling.
As evidencing its utility as a noxious weed destroyer, a
demonstratir a was given at the Paddington tip on
Tuesday of last week before a number of Queensland
gentlemen and others owning country over-run with the
prickly pear and lantana weed pests. A clump of pear
(treated with a special chemical liquid, applied by
the Tyree sprayer, the force-power of which is generated at
a small cost by carbide of calcium) was first shown to the
onlookers. It had been sprayed some eight days pre-
viously, and, notwithstanding the fact that rain had
fallen almost continuously since the experiment, the
plant was quite dead, and in a few days would be ready
for burning off. A patch of lantana alongside, which had
also been sprayed, was likewise dead, and ready for
burning off,*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS. FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Belle of New York.”
Royal “The Great Awakening.”
Criterion “ Mr. Hopkinson.”
Palace “ Miss Lancashire, Limited.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Human Hearts.”
Her Majesty’s “ Jack Shannon.”
Royal “ The Bondman.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
“He wouldn’t hurt a fly ; at least, not an
unmarried fly.” That from the Duchess Palotta’s
description of Lord Gawthorpe is about the key-
note of the London Smart Set as shown in “Mr.
Hopkinson” at Sydney Criterion. As remarked
before, it’s a thoroughly amusing play, and Hugh
Ward as “Hoppy” is a most convincing and
laughable bounder. Also there is a great and
thrilling lesson hidden beneath the bounding
and the laughter. Australians should see the
piece for its political aspect —its sordid picture
of the state a country’s “ leading people ” can
get into from over-much idleness and wealth—
and decide never to have a “Smart Set” of their
own, and to sternly discourage the growth of plu-
tocracy and landlordism. London society, as
shown in “ Mr. Hopkinson,” tastes of last night’s
cigar butt, and smells of the roses that were cut
last week, and has a general atmosphere of Hell
furnished and upholstered by a modern firm. It’s
a dreadful picture of the things that can happen
where wealth accumulates and men decay. Britain
keeps 12,000,000 of its people on the verge of
starvation, in order that it may make the moral
disease set forth in the tale of Hopkinson. It is
mighty bad for the 12,000,000, and it doesn’t seem
to bring any real joy or prefit to the friends of
Hopkinson.
*# * *
“The Great Awakening” at the Royal
is the only supply to meet the perennial demand
for melodrama in Sydney, and its vivid sensa-
tionalism is scoring well in consequence. Miss
Hildyard’s season is to be a short one; so there
are but limited opportunities of seeing the most
extraordinary melodramatic actress of the day.
Only a really extraordinary actress could have
compounded such a whirling jest as the
“Awakening.”
** * *
At the Sydney Palace, “ Miss Lancashire,
Limited,” is doing good biz. Audiences seem
specially delighted with Miss Baines’ Laughing
Song, and, after a verse or two, join in the laughs
until they drown the voice of the singer. State
Ex. Rawson will shed the light of his uniform on
the performance of the 31st.
** * *
After three days more of “La Mascotte,’
“The Belle of New York” will be revived at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), and W. S. Percy will
have a chance to show what sort of a Polite
Lunatic he makes. Percy will be joined by Alf
Stephens, another of the old Pollard Lilliputians,
who makes his first appearance with the William-
son comic opera co. in Sydney. Leslie has his
old part of Blinky Bill, in which he gets a chance
to show the agility of those wonderful legs of his
• —a chance that doesn’t come the way of his
legs nearly so often as these legs deserve.
*# * *
Sydney can show amazing pumpkin-
headedness at times ! There is in the Harbor
City a French singer of extraordinary charm,
with a perfectly-trained voice, brilliance and
rare technique, yet the Town Hall is not
crowded to the mat when Mrs. Blanche Arral
sings therein. Possibly the rare bird ought
to cycle through the city with a peacock
on her shoulder as an advt. A skylark would not
attract sufficient attention. Mrs. Arral’s Satur-
day night concert, when she sang excerpts from
various operas, and warbled divers ballads, and
changed into one brilliant and appropriate costume
after another, was worth ten times the money
demanded, but only the cheaper section of the
hall was full. And the reason of this state
of things is a bottomless mystery. Sydney
rushed “The Kelly Gang,” and one hair of
Blanche Arral’s head is worth many Kelly Gangs.
** # *
An air of weird expectancy is trying to
keep itself warm at Sydney Tivoli these nights
while it waits the coming of the first lot of the
new people whom Captain H. Rickards and party
have chosen during their present voyage of ex-
ploration through the European ’alls. The new
lot will appear on Saturday. Meantime Graham
and Dent are “Packing Up,” and Nolan, the
Svengalis, and the rest are doing other things
with considerable success.
* * #
Somewhat abbreviated since the first night,
“Lady Madcap” provides a satisfactory tuft to
the tail of the present season at Melbourne
Princess’s. The music, by Paul Rubens, is of the
cheaply tuneful order, to which a rhythmical
movement for the legs is usually appended. The
prose tone of the production is vivacious. More-
over, the performance in a number of humorous
character parts leaves little to complain about
except a prevailing sense of thinness. Among
the principals Myles Clifton—a consistent imitator
of G. P. Huntley—seems less overweighted
than the active and intelligent Miss Daisie
Wallace, who appears to have taken Ada Reeve
for her model. Harold Parker gives only a
weak suggestion of the hustling, gaudy spieler
he is supposed to be, and Victor Gouriet acts as
an accomplice without suggesting that he is any
other person than he was in the previous musical
comedy. The most interesting member of the co.
this time is Miss Maud Thorne, because she
strikes a note of interrogation. Evidently she is
a copyist of the same lady whose languid London
drawl and lifeless pair of arms were imitated by
Miss Olive Morrell. In the first case the origin
of the drawl and the meaning of those arms were
a matter of no interest. But Miss Maud Thorne
justifies supposition that the lady in London is a
charming personality, in spite of her sausage-like
limbs. Therefore, one would like to know who
she is, and whether her peculiarities have been
exaggerated in the reproductions. The musical
comedy co., however, is about to pass out of Mel-
bourne notice for some time.
** # #
On Saturday the flaming flag of Edwin
Geach will be hoisted at the Princess’s. The
“ Human Hearts” Co., with Edwin Leicester as
its ace card, has arrived for the purpose of pre-
senting “ the sweetest play on earth ” for twelve
nights and two matinees. The Geachian advt.
states that the author of “Human Hearts” wrote
his story with a brush, and laid a marvellous
assortment of pigments upon the paper. The
color scheme includes “saffrons, pinks, and
yellows upon a dull drab sky,” also “ carmines up
against vivid blues.” This sounds promising
enough. If the vivid blue bits are large and
numerous all will be well with the show.
#* * *
Bland Holt’s mighty fine production of
“ The Bondman ” promises to accomplish the six
weeks’ run which Melbourne expected of it.
Scenic artist Brunton has done his very best for a
play which was better worth the trouble than
many a previous Drury Lane drama wherein a
polished villain and a long-tailed villainess pro-
vided all the trouble, and Virtue wasted much
time in triumphing over them. The nearest
approach to a conventional villain in “ The Bond-
man”isan elderly vice-regal person who has a
thousand political precedents for his unpleasant-
ness, and who claims a grandfatherly interest in
the hero just as the curtain is coming down. The
villainess of ordinary melodramatic life is a con-
spicuous absentee, likewise the low comedy
young man and his best gal, and the other
fellow who nurses a hopeless passion for
the damsel. In fact, Hall Caine’s drama
is nowise “melo,” within the common mean-
ing of that prefix to the word. If the dia-
logue were as strong as the plot, the “ situations ”
would be strikingly effective. But the author is
a comparatively poor hand at shaping a speech to
fit an important occasion. For instance, Jason’s
prayer at the end of the second act has no bite in
it. It doesn’t get hold of the audience what time
the- audience sits waiting to be thrilled. The
prayer needs editing, like other monologues in the
play. And it is placed in front of Jason’s busi-
ness of tearing up the marriage license, etc.,
whereas it should come as an after-effect—a burst
of vengeful feeling reserved for the climax
of the scene. George Rignold is now on
more familiar terms with his lines than he
was a week ago, and, although he can’t put back
the universe and give himself his vanished youth,
he acts Jason like a great old artist to whom a
noble character part comes as easy as falling over
a precipice. Miss Ross, for that matter, has
sacrificed a lot of youthfulness in the pursuit of
stage experience, but some of her work in “ The
Bondman ” —decidedly the best work she has ever
done—makes ample amends for the irritating
artificiality of her young-girl mannerisms and
make-up. The moment she ceases to pose she
reveals herself as a forceful actress. At once and
for all Miss Ross should abandon her sweet-and-
twenty smile, and allow Nature to have a little
more of its own way with her.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), the pros-
perous reign of Mack is drawing to a close. “The
Ragged Earl ” will be chased off the premises by
“Jack Shannon” on Saturday, and when Jack
has blarneyed the leading colleen for six nights
and one matinee, a series of brief revivals will
introduce Mack under various other names, by
any one of which he would sing as sweet.
*# * *
Meanwhile an “ Irish Racing Sketch ” of
a profoundly foolish character has been attached
to the Opera House programme by Edward
Cranston and Co. Cranston, who recklessly
admits to the authorship, deserves about as much
scorn for his acting as for his own original
Sketch. He has a brogue that might make
Techow’s cats weep for the insult to Ireland, but
his. company (two in number) includes a capable
lurid villain performer, who wrestles long and
earnestly with Cranston, and threatens at one
stage of the contest to have the best of it. If
the precious sketch were altered to admit of
Cranston being finally carried off the scene on a
stretcher whilst the villain sang a duet with, the
girl, the Rickards bill would be strengthened
rather than otherwise.
** * *
On Saturday night Illusionist Czerny in-
troduced a large mixed programme to a large
mixed audience at Melbourne Bijou. The mix-
ture, which partly comprised an uneasy set of bio-
graph pictures and a vocal young lady, wasn’t
nearly as entertaining as the magician. Indeed, the
miss who chortled alternately in a nasal contralto
and a shrill bathroom soprano, and announced the
Bull flag with a patriotic tremor in her voice, was
something of an imposition. Czerny himself pro-
vided a pleasant show, which wasn’t assisted by
any adventitious aids in the way of personal eccen-
tricities or striking humor. The best of his
magical fakes were his versions of Thurston’s
feat of suspending a girl in mid air, and a new
edition of the disappearing boy, who in this
instance descends from the flies in a parachute.
Where he uses other men’s novelties, Czerny has
elaborated them ingeniously, and his own
novelties are mostly graceful and artistic. He
isn’t remarkable for paw dexterity, but, where it
was essential to his tricks, he managed, to get
through very well. Anyhow, if he had a less com-
mercial manner, and called himself the Emir of
English Magic-workers, or something else untrue,
he’d be greatly over-praised, rather than under-
estimated.
#* * *
The Besses o’ th’ Bam delivered their
twenty-fourth and “ positively final ” blow at Mel-
bourne on Saturday last, but the popular demand
for brass music is not yet satisfied. On its return
from Adelaide, the Band will give two extra final
concerts in the Exhibition Building, where the
price of admission will be two shillings, and every
ticket will give its-purchaser the free run of the
establishment.
** * *
Melbourne Town Hall engagements for
this week are a concert to-night (Thursday) by
the Amateur Orchestral Society, with Miss TJna
Bourne as piano soloist; and Coward’s Picture
Concert on Saturday. The concert is to be pro-
vided by Percy Coward’s quartet, and sundry
individual performers. The Pictures will be
whizzed off a biograph cylinder.
** & *
“0.K.”: Without denying that Mrs.
Blanche Arral has a voice of good quality and
staying power, and an excellent method of sing-
ing, I rise to protest against the “bluff” which
presents her to this confiding country as a famous
grand opera artiste. She gives very little indica-
tion of having played prima donna parts in any
of the classic operas (except “Mignon,” perhaps)
from which she sings excerpts. Her profuse
smiles and mannerisms suggest that she graduated
on the French opera bouffe stage before taking to
the concert platform, and indeed she is stated by
her programmes to have been the original leading
lady in “The Beggar Student.” As for the
“ mystery ”of her identity, it is understood that
her name was formerly Claire Laudinier (her
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. "We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street.
Sydney.*


husband calls her Claire), and that she appeared
under the name of Neilson in America. Her
success has been astonishing to the people who
Sknow most about the show business.; but it is
explained by the fact that she gives a bright
musical entertainment in a novel form,_ and has
■contrived to get credit for a fine achievement
where her performances are only fairly good.
For instance, her much-praised singing of the
Polacea, from “Mignon,” is not nearly so sweet,
•or even so fluent, as was Miss Lorraine’s treat-
ment of the same number when Musgrove staged
the opera in Melbourne. Miss Lorraine was
a handsome young woman, who had made her
mark at Covent Garden.
** * *
Miss Beatrice Holloway has been playing
“Jo,” and other parts of less importance, at
Adelaide Royal. Meanwhile, dress-circle patrons
have been pretending the theatre does not exist,
■and have been crowding the Town Hall to hear
Albani. The star has surrounded herself with a
splendid company of supporters, and generously
gives them every chance. The Besses o’ the Barn
are due next; in fact, their trombones can even
now be heard on the State’s doorstep, so to speak.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The late Christie Murray was understood to have been
for years a constant contributor to “Our Handbook ’’ in
London Referee —two columns of topical philosophical
matter, which stand out like rocks in a sea of sporting
and dramatic news. If it W'as Murray’s work that
strengthened the Ref., he must be credited with some-
thing of a genius for flippant expression of transcendental
ideas and doctrines. Not a great novelist or a brilliant
litterateur, Christie Murray w’as a whole-souled artist in
whatever he did. Australia knew him as a lecturer
when he first arrived, and an actor afterwards.
The material of his lectures was thin—woven
for the most part from commonplace journalistic
experiences—but he displayed it with true dra-
matic effect. He had the soul that distinguishes
a born actor from the cleverest of mere mummers, and
rarely peVmits him to enter the tawdry theatrical pro-
fession. Middle-aged Murray, however, caught stage-
fever whilst he was lecturing in Australia, and he wasted
a year or two in theatrical venturing, with Harry St.
Maur as his sometime partner. A novice on the stage,
he had such a natural talent for acting that he was soon
able to play an important p4rt in “Jim the Penman”
more forcibly at some points than even Titheradge. The
Australian stage-fever left Christie Murray in a very weak
state, financially speaking. A while after his return to
England the cable announced that he had filed his
schedule.
Someone writes to say that, “ Edwin Geach’s ‘ Human
Hearts’ Co. had a splendid run of three nights at
Hobart.” Nothing much sadder was ever said of the
cobble-stoned city. Hobart has about 103 years of his-
tory to its credit. It has a fertile country behind it, and
one of the finest of the world’s harbors in front of it. It
has a healthy climate, and splendid scenery and a bound-
less water supply. It should beat Adelaide and Brisbane
out of sight. And the long wretchedness of Tory mis-
governnient has made it a three-night theatrical stand,
something like Gosford.
There has always been a lot of stinking fish in the
neighborhood of Poverty Point; but the English-German-
American theatrical Combine will probably get rid of
some of it. The Combine will make it harder for Aus-
tralia to get the foreign “ star ’’—until, anyhow,
the star begins to get mouldy in the middle
and frayed at the edges—so Australia will
have to provide more of its own stars.
“But,” saysJ. C. Williamson’s represen-
tative, “of course there is the difficulty
that we have in educating the public up
to an appreciation of the local article.”
J.C.W.’s representative needn’t worry
much on that point. As soon as J.C.W.
and the other managers want Australian
artists boomed, the daily papers will boom
them all right; and the public will follow.
If the Australian public hasn’t “appre-
ciated the local article ” hitherto, it has
been because it has been encouraged by the
management’s big letters on the bills to regard
the imported article as something naturally bette
Melbourne Sporting and Dramatic News, a journal apt
to be aggressively inaccurate in both of its news depart-
ments, gives a flat and bald contradiction to a Bulletin
(“ Poverty Point ”) statement that “Dorothy” was first
produced in Australia at Melbourne Princess’s with
Leonora Braham in the name part. The S. A. D. News
alleges that “Dorothy ” came to Australian light at Adel-
aide, with Nellie Stewart as principal girl, but it gives no
date, nor does it explain why a new opera was staged for
the first time in Adelaide. The Bulletin will stand in a
dignified attitude by the assertion that Miss Braham was
imported from London to play Dorothy, and that she
appeared at Melbourn e Princess’sin September, 1887, Nellie
Stewart having left for London in February of that year.
The said Nellie Stewart did return to Melbourne in 1888,
making her first appearance in “ Dorothy,” with the com
poser, Alfred Cellier, as musical conductor. It is now up
against the S. A. D. News to make out a convincing case
for the defence. Meanwhile the painfully-inaccurate
journal can write itself down an ass for having stated, in
last week’s number, that Bland Holt produced “The
Bondman ” in Sydney more than a year ago, with Walter
Baker as Jason. “The Bondman” was never staged in
Australasia previous to the present production at Mel-
bourne Royal. It was Hall Caine’s “ The Prodigal Son ”
which Bland Holt staged last year in Melbourne and
Sydney. Another paragraph in the same issue of the
S. A. D. News, states that “ Miss Daisy Coppin will re-
main in England for some time yet. She has signed for
a provincial tour, and also for a 35 weeks season in
America.” As a matter of fact, Daisy Coppin is now
taking a part in “The Bondman,” at Melbourne Royal.
Other inaccuracies are too numerous to mention.
La Milo’s ride through Coventry, d la Godiva, in the
presence of 150,000 (or was it million ?) visitors reminds
one of the private rehearsal of the amateur comic opera
in “ The White Heather.” Bland Holt, as stage manager,
explains to the sassiety ladies that the heroine will ride a
bicycle whilst they sing in chorus “ The Lady Godiva
a-oes riding to-day, with her jiggetty-jiggetty-jiggetty-
jig; with nothing upon her, by way of array, but her
wiggetty-wiggetty-wiggetty wig. ”
“G.S.K-” (Broken Hill): “Mother Goose” has just
finished a five nights’ season here. It was a remarkable
season, and there were incidents in it. The co. landed at
Port Adelaide from the Kyarra at midnight on Thurs-
day, Ist August. After a two hours’ wait for the loading
of scenery, etc., it left by special train for Broken Hill,
where it arrived at 4 p.m., after faring very badly for pro-
visions on the way. It was raining a deluge at the Hill,
and the majority of the people had to hunt round for
accommodation. Some of the principals and chorus, the
latter very weepy, were wandering about the town at 6
o’clock, although they had to show at 7.45 the same night.
A few went straight to the theatre, where they passed
the night, and next day had to be content with lodgings
at various humble and inferior pubs. Altogether they had
a hard time—a time of gloom, discomfort, mud, wet feet
and trouble.
Miss Daisy Coppin, daughter of George, who went to
London hoping to dance her way into the hearts of the
cockneys, returns disappointed. “ Mere talent without
good looks does not go far in London,” she tells an Argus
interviewer. “ A girl must be young and pretty, and
have influence behind her, if she wants to succeed.”
This is a really modest excuse, for Daisy is surely good-
looking enough to satisfy any one.
Pansy Godiva Milo Montague, ever alive to the beauty
of advertising, has broken out in a fresh spot. Moved
by the London County Council’s ban on airy and scantily-
clothed music-hall “ turns,” she has invited that august
body to a private view of herself, that its members may ■
see for themselves that there is really nothing at all to
object to.
Beatrice Miranda made her first appearance in London
(Bechstein Hall), t’other week, at the annual concert of
Madame Minna Fischer’s pupils. Of course, the Melbourne
girl was spotted by the few newspaper critics present as
being something out of the ordinary among advanced
amateurs, although there were many fine voices in the
crowd. The Tribune said: “Particular attention is
due to Miss Beatrice Hamilton’s dramatic and powerful
rendering.. . Miss Hamilton must be judged from
an entirely professional standard, as she is ‘ hors
coneours’ with amateurs.” Up to that time the
future prima-donna had decided to call herself “ Hamil-
ton,” and leave the family name to the sole care of sister
Lalla as regards its professional reputation. But after
the concert Miss Beatrice was wisely advised to stand on
her merits as a Miranda, and throw the alias aside.
Minnie Livingstone, a clever little member of Bland
Holt’s co., died in Melbourne last week. She never did
anything big—her figure restricted her to low comedy
character sketches—but if Miss Livingstone was down on
the bill to play “ Liza, a fac’try ’and,” it meant that Liza
would be a little bit of orlright. She made her last
appearance at Melbourne Royal in “ The Cotton King,”
as a quaint old woman who was foremost in the fray of
kiss-in-the-ring, and whose legs Were made hideous in the
interests of art. Off the stage, the little girl was not more
than 25. The cause of death was mostly a hearty meal
of cold beef and pickles, aggravated by gastritis. Beef
with pickles, after a long afternoon or evening at the
theatre, is indirectly responsible for much decease in the
theatrical purfesh. Sadie Macdonald, of the original
“ Trip to Chinatown” co., has a handsome tombstone in
Waverley Cemetery owing to the tragic results of pickles
and beef.
“Philo”: Hi, there, you impecunious bards, fill up
your inkbottles and spread out your paper! I tell
this on the authority of Tom Dawson, one of the few
Australian comedians who can keep himself going at the
’alls: —“ I’ll gladly pay ten pounds for a comic song with
a good catch-phrase in it. I’ve been trying to get one
for a long time, and can’t. And it’s the same with all
the other Australians in my line. In England, comic
singers are canvassed by song writers ; here we have to
do the canvassing. There’s a good thing in it for a man
who can write words for good catch-phrase songs.”
"HOORAY!!!
At ‘Le Grand
Guignol” theatre,
Paris, the French
papers record an-
other of the
ghastly plays
that are looked
for in that estab-
lishment. A
French submarine
goes awry and
fills, and the
officers and crew
are seen fighting,
in mad, futile
panic, with
knives and re-
volvers, for the
small and only
exit. And the
next scene shows
a Cabinet Minis-
ter delivering a
IICI UCUVCIIUg w
solemn panegyric over the gallant dead, ana pointing
out reverentially to the crowd that “ French sailors ever
know how to meet death, with unflinching calmness and
dignity.” The amazing thing is that the press seems
to take this awful gibe at the national navy quite as a
matter of course.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Booming, bustling, beautifu.
Broken Hill has invented a new kind of canvasser, who
goes round, from house to house, and plays his latest
song on appro. Note his interesting advertisement from
a late Barrier Miner
NOTICE.
HAVING introduced my New Song, “ A Drift on
The Ocean,” with great success in New South
Wales, Victoria, and Queensland, I, Herbert Lennon,
the Composer, now intend calling personally at the
business places and private houses, and playing my
Song for approval. Price, Is. 6d copy. Address,
Herbert Lennon, Post-office, Broken Hill.
“ Billy T.” : Bland Holt has >lO reverence, no respect
for the great ones of the earth. He has even laid pre-
sumptuous hands upott the work of that transcendent
genius Hall Caine. I have a copy of “ The Bondman ” play
in book form, and I’ve seen the Bland version at Melbourne
Royal. The two are very' different. In the original
Caine, Grandfather, the part assumed by the actor-
manager, is a mere sketch, and the ancient mariner
appears only incidentally, and is confined to the first two
acts. He has been enlarged and developed, endowed with
a kind of philosophy in the present production, and
turned loose to comment on all things beneath the sun,
and assert himself right through the play. Two facetious
convicts have been written into the scene in the sulphur
mines, and an entirely new scene provided in place of a
tableau to finish the play. Blandolt’s “ Bondman ” ends
with a frustrated execution and a reconciliation ; Caine’s
ends with a hackneyed picture of the lonesome Red Jason
perched on a rock, even as Napoleon might have perched
on St. Helena, or any other mineral outcrop that wasn’t
worth putting through the battery.
“Snell”: After sitting out “Lady Madcap” at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, I am amazed at the blazing intellectual
qualifications necessary in a successful purveyor of this
class of entertainment. The chief comedy matter in
“Lady Madcap” was written for Huntley, that quaint
and delightful creator of swagger Johnnie types, and for
the dwarf comedian, who was the hotel commissionaire
in the first Australian performance of “ The Girl from
Kay’s.” The part in “Lady Madcap’’built for the two-
foot humorist is occupied bv a man of ordinary inches,
but the management has not cut the part to suit these
altered circumstances. So much talk and more business,
which might have been funny enough with the
original abbreviated pro. capering as a corporal ot
troopers, become senseless masquerade and pointless
gibberish in the Melbourne entertainment. For five
minutes one comic object derides another comic object
with gags based entirely on the idea of the latter being a
mere atom of a soldier, whereas, in point of fact, he is
considerably taller than the facetious person who hurls
derision at him. All through the opera similar foolish-
ness sticks out a foot, and sets me wondering.
In a penny London weekly, published by Cassell and
Co., there is an apparently inspired article on Mrs. Melba.
The lady, it appears, “ could play the piano at the age of
six, and then, to encourage her musical talents, her
father bought her a concertina, and before long she was
proficient upon the instrument.” The notion of encour-
aging anyone’s musical talent by beguiling her
from the piano to the concertina is striking. The
most remarkable statement, however,is that not longago
she visited her native country “and gave a series of
charity concerts.” This will serve fo show the lamentable
ignorance in which Australians are plunged ; no one ever
suspected that her sole object in coming here under Mus-
grove’s management was to help the suffering poor. “On
the day of her arrival the local paper of her native town
appeared in gold on blue paper.” That is a mere detail—
it is always done. Still, the casual mention of “ the local
paper ” of Melbourne rather recalls the heroic lie of the
untravelled bushy'from Pooncarie, or some such place:
“ Been in Sydney ! Of course I have. Let’s see, who keeps
the pub there now ? ”
“Hamer”: I saw a name mentioned in connection
with some great righteousness recently, which reminded
me. Years ago I was travelling with a world-famous
galaxy of London dramatic stars, and I had a letter of
introduction to the young local cleric. He told me he
viewed theatrical matters with suspicion, but he accepted
my invitation, to have a look behind the scenes, and was
impressed with the devotion of various husbands and
wives. (I didn’t go into details.) He was even sympa-
thetic when the leading lady informed him that the strain
of playing a heavy part made whisky an absolute
necessity, and on the second night he brought a flask, in
case the strain should prove too much. Also, he told us
that he was leaving on vacation, and, as w r e were
travelling in the same direction, we would be a
companionable party. We were, especially after
the parson had made friends with the male members.
They called him “ Occasionally” because he explained to
them over the tenth drink, that it was good for a man to
get away from himself—“Oc-cas-ion-al-ly.” After that
Occasionally became very frequent. The ladies objected
indignantly to the familiar tone he used to them, and some
of the men, who had a lien on some of the ladies, talked
vaguely of personal violence. Later on a publican tried
to collect from me a drink bill that the good man had run
up. After that, I advised him to quit; but when he offered
to fight me I gave it up as a bad job. He was above my
size. In about a week the cash that was to last him for a
couple of months had melted, and he had ideas of earn-
ing his crust for the next seven weeks as an actor, under
the name of Jobinson, or something of the kind. I told
him that a man who couldn’t carry his beer better
was no use to the profession, and that he had a nobler
career which it would be a pity to sacrifice. Then he had
another burst, entirely at my expense, and after having
told the leading lady—to whom his whisky flask had
become an institution—that they would meet again in
Heaven, he left us. I believe it was his first and last
falling away from grace, and that he got into his parish
again by the back door after dark, without any one dis-
covering the ungodly way he had spent his holiday. He
demoralised the stage a great deal more than it did him,
for the leading lady never lost the violent whisky-craving
which his flask had engendered, and we were out a good
deal of money. And now he is a great and shining light.
I wonder what he says about Ada Ward’s anti-stage
crusade.
The craze for peculiarities in pianists is beginning to be
snorted at in England, of all places. A London weekly
enthuses over a young local pianist named Ford Bowen :
“If Mr. Bowen grew his hair long, wore a d6collet6collar
and called himself Boweniski, he would be the rage of
London and a world-wide celebrity. Meanwhile he seems
cohtented to be a great artist.”
Robert Courtneidge, who got a firm managerial footing
in London with “ The Dairymaids,” and is now drawing
the town to “ Tom Jones,” appears to have turned him-
self into a company—or else he has formed a Manager’s
Protection Co., for dealing with pirates. Lately, a Judge
granted a perpetual injunction to restrain somebody
from using certain songs or musical compositions, the
rights of which are vested in Courtneidge Limited.
Other London managers are said to be following Robert’s
lead.
From the Age Annual for 1877 August 27. Appli-
cation made to Mr. Justice Fellows, in Chambers, for a
capias to compel Miss Ada Ward,
the actress, to give security to
meet any damages and costs in
an action brought by Mr. Ogberne
for breach of promise of marriage.
His Honor directed the capias to
issue, Miss Ward to give security
to the amount; of £3OO before she should leave the
colony. This, however, she had done on the 25th.”
Miss Ada Ward wound up her campaign in Melbourne
with the statement that “it is clear the religion of God
is not wanted in Australia.” Which is a rash and sweep-
ing statement. If Ada tried Australia with the religion
of°God she might find quite an unexpected demand for
the article.
In “ Julius Caesar,” when the body of the murdered
potentate is brought along on a bier, it is customary for
a “ double ”to represent the corpse. But when Beer-
bohm Tree produced the piece at His Majesty’s, London,
he insisted that Charles Fulton, who played the part,
should go on personally and be his own remains. Fulton
protested, pointed out the draughty nature of the stage,
and wanted to know what the audience would say if he
sneezed. “ Say ! ” said Tree. “ Why, they would simply
call vou Julius Sneezer.” Fulton, in the vastness of his
dignity, overlooked the fact that his double was just as
lively to sneeze as he was.
Ellen Terry’s autobiography bears out the rule (of many
exceptions) that genius is the incidental product of
large families. Ellen was third of a family of 12. Nine
of them survived infancy, and seven of them survive to
this day. Six took to mumming, though but three—
Ellen, Marion, and Fred—still face the hooflights.
Parents were both active members of “ the good old
actor breeding,” perambulating stock cos., and that they
could bear, rear, and provision (not to mention con-
tinually perambulate) this dozen children under such
conditions says much for the grit and vigor of Ellen’s
progenitors.
The wise man always prepares for accidents in
all things, and when there is a wife and family to think
of, it is not only foolish but almost criminal to neglect
insurance against accident. The South British Insurance
Co., of Maoriland, issuer policies providing for the
payment of lump sums for accidental death, loss
of limbs and eyes, also weekly compensation for tem-
porary or total disablement by accident and the common
diseases. Premiums from £2 2s. per annum, upwards,
according to occupation. Why not be prepared ? Head
Office for N. S. Wales, 12 Bridge Street.
Contortionists do not all tell the same tale about the
harmlessness of their business. One confessed to a French
man of letters : “I have all the appearance of a strong
man : my chest is wider than your own, but beneath it I
conceal the lungs of a child. They are stunted by the
daily pressure of my thoracic cage. Consumption
threatens me, and will carry me off very early unless 1
break my neck in the circus some evening, which I should
certainly prefer.”
Dear Bulletin. —l’m satisfied. Those Y.M.C.A.’s know
something after all, and the poor Pagan who stands on
the footpath and scoffs at them isn’t aware that he’s
alive. Reading with surprise in a recent Bulletin that
the Sydney Y.M.C.A. was the home of artistic stoush in
this city, I was impelled to wander in the other night.
The stoush was off that night, but I remained all the
same. I’m glad I did. I heard a gentleman lecture on
Greek art, and during his discourse he exhibited, on the
screen, limelight views of such a fine collection of shapely
damsels with no clothes on that it made me think
the surf bathing season was here again. I’m convinced
that we outsiders have been living in darkness for years,
and I’m going to join that Y.M.C.A. as soon as I can
raise the initiation fee. —Yours etc., Nusr
“ Drifter ”: There is a sundry show which, so far, The
Bulletin has failed to mention. It supplies melodrama
of the deepest dye, and it is staged in a Surry Hills back-
yard, opening off the backest kind of lane, every Wednes-
day and Saturday night (weather permitting), at 8 p.m;
sharp. The company consists of a mixed dozen of
juvenile blokes and tarts. The stage is simply the front
end of the yard ; and the scenery consists of strips of
hessian and some bushes. The limelight is an illumina-
tion of three candles. Price of admission is a bottle ; one
good, sound beer bottle commands a front seat (on the
ground), whilst bottles of less commercial value admit,
only to the gallery (which is also the ground) at the rear
of the elect of the beer-bottle seats. The ticket-taking
staff at the gate is incorruptible, so the bottleless hang
disconsolately about in the lane. The artists’ dressing-
room is the wash-house, and the ten-act drama is cribbed
from a Deadwood Dick classic. At time of writing the
show is going well, and no change of programme is ex-
pected for quite a while.
It is usual for professional artists’ names to appear in
large type on charity entertainment programmes, and
when the type isn’t large enough, the wrath of the pro.
is of a size that makes up for the deficiency. Recently,
Sale (Vic.) organised an amateur concert in aid of the
local hospital, and a newly-arrived pro. and his wife pro-
mised to sing. But at the last moment the stage man-
ager received a letter to the effect that, as their names
were not in larger type than those of other artists, they
had shaken the dust of the proceedings off their feet.
Then the pro. wrote to the press and forgave the people
of Sale for not giving him his due, and set it down to
ignorance. And the people of Sale now realise that they
should have met the pair at the station with a brass band
and a torchlight procession, and that they are unfit for
good society, and devoid of the amenities of civilisation.
The lady theatre-goers who frequent the stalls have a
habit of hanging their hats to the backs of the seats in
front of them, by fixing hat-pins to the upholstery ; and
thereby is suspended a tragedy. It was at a recent per-
formance of “The Winter Hen” that the hiss of con-
versation which accompanied the overture was rent in
twain by an agonised shriek and a hoarse “My God, I’m
stabbed.” Hearts stopped beating, and blood turned to
last year’s summer drinks, as anxious eyes jumped to
their feet and craned their necks in fearsome expectation.
But no corpse was carried out, and no miscreant was
arrested. A pretty girl apologised with tears. She had
tried to hang up her hat and talk to her companion at
the same time, and had abstractedly stuafc the pin into
the man instead of the upholstery, and attempted to
dangle her hat on him instead of on it.
Attention is directed to the advertisement
on page 35 from Robert Harper and Co., starch-
nianufacturers. Being an advertisement, it of
course represents their view, not necessarily ours.
“ J.” : Cabled from the North that the
Jap “Viscount” Hayashi has said: “Korea’s
fate should be a lesson to China to put her house
in order before some strong nation does it for her.”
This passage is pregnant with that braggadocio
and intolerance peculiar to the brown-skinned
brotherhood. But yesterday, Cherry-Blossom,
rushing home from a foreign visit with the broom
of civilisation in her luggage, bashed down a few
of the cobwebs and swept some of the dust of
centuries from her front parlor. Now, she leaf s
into the street, wildly proclaiming that Madame
Chow Chow', next door, must renovate her o'd
shebang before some loud, brawny woman does it
for her.
The Foreign-traders, not with any idea of
helping the Australian workman, but with intent
to injure Australian industry, are taking advan-
tage of the disclosures as to sweating in the
Australian starch-making industry to “boom”
English starch firms—one in particular which
pays the hideous rate of 19s. per week to male
adults. The Australian 365. a week is too low',
but it is generous compared with 19s. The
alleged Australian who advises his countrymen to
kill off their faulty compatriot—instead of making
it possible and necessary for him to abjure his
faults —in order to support a positively criminal
foreigner, deserves to be tarred and feathered.
In Waverley (N.S.W.) a dastardly game
is being played by the Onslow crowd to wrest the
suffrages of the Very Best People from T. Jessep,
banana-man. Many of the Very Best People
have never seen Jessep, but have given him their
votes on the understanding that he is something
good, and gentle, and holy in the religious line ;
rather of the rural dean breed. Such people
are now being led in shoals to the Jessep meet-
ings. There they find, raving upon a platform, a
small man wdio suggests a demented auctioneer,
and whose voice is akin to that of the crow upon
a far-Western fence. Wherefore they depart
shudderingly, and begin to canvass for Onslow.
“Dr.” Hackett’s West Australian, pub-
lished at Perth (W.A.), is a marvel in its way.
On 22nd July, it gravely assured its readers : (1)
That tt\e example of the Transvaal (which is
wholly an inland State) proves that the danger of
the successful invasion of Australia (with 7000
miles of coast-line to defend) by sea is really
imaginary ; (2) that “ none of the Australian cities
lie on the seaboard," therefore they really can’t be
attacked (if Sydney, which could be bombarded
into a wreck from the ocean front at Bondi, isn’t
on the seaboard heaven only knows the meaning
of the word); and (3) that Australia couldn’t raise
£2,900,000 a year for defence in any case.
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. V\ .
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l id.
Scrubb’s Ammonia.—ln these days when
modern invention seems to supply and anticipate even
reasonable want of man or woman, one is tempted to
wonder how our poor forbears, who lived in the “ glorioi s
good old times,” managed to exist at all. They, for
instance, were fain to content themselves with the
crudest of soap and water ablutions, unsoftened by an\
of the luxurious attributes with which we are w-ont to
indulge ourselves to-day, such as Scrubb s Cloud\
Ammonia, whose refreshing and invigorating qualities
render it an indispensable addition to the toilet table.
Nor is this the only respect in which it is invaluable, tor
its cleansing properties make its influence on the com-
plexion highly beneficial. To the economical, this
capital preparation will recommend itself as an important
factor in the renovation of old gowns whose front breadtl s
have become grease-marked or discolored. Rusty black,
too, is immensely benefited by a smart rub with Scrubb >
Ammonia, and subsequent hanging up to dry, ,att< i
which simple process it will be found to have recovered a
considerable amount of its original freshness. Altogethc
Scrubb’s Cloudy Fluid Ammonia must, be reckoned a
household boon,
ACTSLAND II.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dainty debutante all in white,
Frills and chiffon and shoelets light
Swift o’er the pine floor glancing ;
God in your eyes sowed violets bright,
Flashing like stars at the dance to-night,
Setting all hearts romancing.
Red lips drink from Youth’s rose-brimm’d bowl,
Light feet trip till the midnight toll —
Waltz till your little white shoes unsole
From dancing, dancing, dancing !
Oh, but this midnight watch is slow ;
Oh, for one whirl and the waltz’s glow,
Moonlight and sweet romancing....
Bald-topped partners of long ago
Play Bridge ; we’re grandmothers now, you know —
Hark 1 at that waltz entrancing ....
If but those old boys o’er the cards that pore,
Would file stiff-knee’d through the ballroom door
And shuffle with us round the polished floor—
Fain would we all be dancing 1
TAS.
M. LEGRAND.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
I owest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.


Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Just now artistic London is taking off its hat
to Guyla Tornai, the Hungarian, and Hammershoi,
the Dane. Tornai, the Hungarian br.ush-wielder,
is the superb artist of the “ bleeding feet.” His
huge blood drops are painted so exquisitely that
one might wear them like an ordinary-
birthday gift. Tornai, according to his
violent disciples, throttles you into admiring
his pieces. One of his pictures illustrates
a group of Indian fakirs waltzing leisurely
on spikes; the blood is laid on with a
trowel, and the effect is artistically hor-
rible. There are other pictures of Japanese
temples, where the wraiths of murdered
Shoguns stream through more blood-hazes
and over twilight seas. A certain Austra-
lian artist is offering 10 guineas to the
person who will sleep alone with one of
the Hungarian’s blood-studies. Hammer-
shoi, the Dane, is the apostle of light and
shade. He believes that atmosphere is
more effective in painting than action or
the pantomimic gestures of posing tra-
gedians. His chief work represents a
large room with a table standing in the
centre. There are no figures of any kind
in the room, but the Dane’s disciples call
your attention to the tender dusk of
evening that steals ecstatically around
the legs of the table. According to
painters who can merely whiten the in-
terior of piggeries, this takes a lot of doing.
At this month’s Melb. Divorce sittings
a most patient woman asked Justice a’Beckett
for a decree nisi, and got it. She was married
away back in 1897 to an apparently desirable
young station-manager, earning £lOO, and later
£l5O, a year. They agreed to keep the marriage
secret till he got a home for her, and they parted
at the church door with that understanding. The
compact was kept till last April, when the lady,
weary of waiting for the blessed home, filed her
petition. Being asked to account for the unusual
course of events, the nominal wife said she really
couldn’t account for it—all she knew was that she
had just gone on waiting. They had, she added,
corresponded affectionately for six years, and she
had met hor nominal husband twice, for a couple
of minutes at a time, when he was most friendly,
and promised to fix things up soon. But
apparently he had got into the habit of leaving
things unfixed, so nothing ever happened. He
had never given her a shilling during the whole
10 years, or helped her to earn her living, or done
anything at all for her. In fact, a typewriting
machine would have been more useful, and a
gramophone much more satisfactory. And, in
the end, even a gramophone wouldn’t have cost
so much to get rid of. You can always give it
away to your enemy’s neighbor.
Ever since the Commonwealth took over
the Post Office it has been trying to grapple with
a legacy left it by the State in Victoria—a legacy
in the shape of a widowed charwoman of good
morals and determined habit. It is understood
that the widow’s late husband was “ killed on the
railways” (that is the nice way it is put), and
that, instead of giving her a chance to rear her
orphans by opening gates or minding cattle-pits,
she was desired to help “char” the G.P.O. at
255. a week, the idea, of course, being that, as the
Commonwealth was going to take over the post-
offices, she would thus be billeted on the Com-
monwealth instead of on the State. Last year,
apparently, the department wearied of her,
and a Board of Inquiry, having investigated the
matter, besought her to find some other sphere
for her abilities. This, however, she steadfastly
declined to ; and though the Postal bosses for-
bade her to “ Jiar ” any more they couldn’t sack
her without the Minister’s authority, and as
P.M.G. Chapman didn’t like to turn the lone
widow and the orphans on to a cold world, she
has regularly drawn her 255. weekly ever since.
The Age is much exercised over this irregularity
—“seven months’ wages without work ” —and de-
mands that Chapman’s successor, Mauger, shall
“do something,” though it doesn’t specify what.
It doesn’t even suggest that the Victorian Rail-
way Department should present one of its own
widows with one of its own doorsteps to scrub.
Yet, if the widow must have a doorstep, there’s
no doubt as to what doorstep it should be.
• * * *
An embittered lawyer wrote this last
Friday:—
Six N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges are sitting in the
Crick case, while the seventh is taking a holiday. The
whole of the courts and all the legal business are “held
up” ; litigants eat their hearts out in bitter contemplation
of the law’s delay; barristers with work coming on view
with dismay day succeeding day, with nary a guinea
earned and with ever-increasing openings for settle-
ments ; solicitors simply sit in their offices and chew
their quill pens. Judges’ associates go out of town, and
tipstaffs take vacation. No lawyer man, it appears, is to
make a living except George Reid and Billy Walker, on
the one side, and Ralston and Broomfield on the other,
with their attendant instructing solicitors. Crick has
come to be a man of such fatal importance that four of
our courts are locked up while the question is considered
as to whether he must keep up or take down his practi-
tioner’s brass plate.
• * * •
“ F.” : It is certainly a weighty indictment
against the Royal Art Society, and against the
system which subsidises it to advance the art
interests of the community, that when a painter
of the standing of Streeton wants to exhibit in
Sydney he cannot get —even though he offers
liberal cash remuneration—the use of the rooms for
which the State pays the rent; and that a body
of painters such as the Society of Artists, repre-
senting almost the whole art talent of the city,
isn’t allowed to hold its show in the rooms
allegedly devoted to art. Unless the Government
intends to set the whole art house in order, and
treat the teaching of the painting profession as a
branch of education under the direct control of
the State, it had better abolish the subsidy alto-
gether. It is illogical in theory, and in practice
breeds not much other art than that of parasitism.
A CONSEQUENCE OF NEGLECTING
THE MODES.
BOY: “ Look, father, there goes one of them
artist coves.”
PA: “Hush, child, you don’t know what you
may come to yourself one of these days.”
Apparently they reckon up at Quirincli
(N.S. W.) that, after these last two or three good
seasons, women ought to be pretty cheap. YVhen
the police arrested the fugitive George Toffts, for
shooting his sweetheart and battering her head
in, he said : “ Oh, well, they can’t give me more
than six months for it, anyhow.”
Ethnologists record that when certain
semi-civilised tribes want to make an oath very
binding they eat some dirt. The fully civilised
nations' also eat dirt when they take an oath, but
instead of using fresh dirt from a paddock, they
consume an aged sample off the court Bible.
UNMITIGATED DISASTER .
PROSPEROUS PRO.: “ What sort of a trip did you have , Barnstorm? "
BARNSTORM: “ Rotten , dear boy, rotten! Had our luggage detained at the first hotel, the
soubrette had twins, the villain developed varicose veins and had to be left behind;
then our first comedy got delirium tremens and cut all the scenery to pieces under the
delusion that it was a snake. Then our juvenile lead left and tackled hard graft.
The leading lady and I started to walk back, and I left her in hysterics in the bush.
Rotten, dear boy, rotten!” (Retires up counter, lunching.)
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant remem-
bers some aldermen
The Municipal Council of Sydney, now a house divided
against itself, was established in 1842. Governor Gipps
nominated a Mayor and aldermen for six wards, and they
acted until the citizens elected the first council. The
Governor’s nominees were Hutchinson Hothersall Browne
(immigration agent), William Augustus Miles (commis-
sioner of police), Charles Windeyer (police magistrate),
John Ryan Brenan (coroner), Francis Lewis Shaw Mere-
wether, and Joseph Long Innes (police magistrate, known
as “ Peg-Leg ”). Charles Windeyer was chosen Mayor.
He was a pressman, and the first officially authorised
reporter in the House of Lords ; also he was grandfather
of the late Justice Windeyer.
This preliminary council was appointed Aug. 12, 1842.
The Act declared the town to be a city, divided into six
wards, each ward returning four councillors, and the
councillors themselves elected the mayor and six aider-
men. The election of councillors took place on Nov. 1,
when the preliminary council ceased to exist. The first
councillors were George Allen (solicitor), John Hosking
(of the firm of Hughes and Hosking, merchants and land
speculators), John Jenkihs Peacock (a merchant of Miller’s
Point), Thomas Smidmore (a land-owner, but at one'time
in the crockery trade, and also landlord of the Grown
and Thistle, George-street), John Little (there were two
of the name ; one a grocer in George-street, and the other
boniface of the White Hart Inn, King and Clarence
streets), David Jones (draper, of George-street), John
Jones (there were twelve of the name), James Chapman
(carcase butcbei - , George-street), Ambrose Foss (chemist,
Pitt-street, successor to the notorious John Tawell),
Daniel Egan (wine and spirit merchant), Thomas
Broughton (tailor, etc., George-street), John Rose
Holden (ex-army officer), John Neale (carcase butcher,
Sussex-street, the friend and part heir of Bill
Nash), William Pawley (tanner, of Oastlereagh-
street), James Robert VVilshire (leather, soap, and
candle manufacturer, George-street), Henry Hollinshead
(flour miller, Kent-street), George Hill (carcase butcher,
Surry Hills; his sister married Dan Cooper, baronet),
Edward Flood (builder), David Taylor (builder, Sussex-
street), Robert Owen (solicitor), Francis Mitchell (ship-
chandler, Lower George-street), Henry MacDermott (wine
and spirit merchant, George-street), Edward Hunt (cabi-
net-maker, Jamieson-street; in his house, Chief Justice
Forbes presided at a meeting to establish an Anti-Rum
Society), James Holt (of Cooper and Holt).
In 1854 the Act of Incorporation was repealed, and
three Commissioners appointed : Gilbert Elliott (sheriff
at one time), F. O. Darvall, and John Rae (ex-Town
Clerk). In 1857 the city was re-incorporated, with George
Thornton as Mayor. The wards were increased to eight
with two representatives, called aldermen, to each.
* * * *
A sordid tragedy was lately disclosed at
Sydney Quarter Sessions. A young woman
described as “respectably connected,” in delicate
health and of weak intellect, married a laborer.
In the common course of events she and her two
children had to be supported by her father. Two
years ago the father died, and the laborer turned
his wife and children adrift on the world to save
expenses. The two children were found in a
starving condition and taken over by the State.
After a while the wife went back to her husband
and asked him to make a home for her, and as he
refused, she just went and drifted into marriage
with another man, who took her to the New
Hebrides. All her life seemed a drift, and one
place was much the same as another. Out there
the weak-minded creature drifted again— into
fatal confidence this time—and told the new
husband of her previous venture. He forced her
to write out a confession of her crime, and then
sent it to the police in Sydney. There was a
third baby by this time. The woman, having
contracted malarial fever, returned to Sydney,
and on the voyage Baby 111 died. The sick
mother took refuge in l’rince Alfred Hospital,
and as soon as she came out she was arrested for
bigamy. The J udge took a mild view of the
“crime” and gave her the First Offenders Act.
And no doubt the laborer drinks his beer as
comfortably as usual, while a kindly State sees to
his children for him. There is no First Hogs Act
to meet his case. As for the little woman—when
last heard from she was just drifting.
The Yankees who are running amok just
now, and assaulting all and sundry in connection
with the New York women and children .mutila-
tion cases, take a line apparently from the Babu
Indian’s purposeless antics a couple of years ago.
In Calcutta some Bengali boys were said to have
been kidnapped. Forthwith the black brother
worked himself into a state of frenzy. A drunk
came gyrating along a main street. Someone
raised the cry that he was a kidnapper, and that
reveller came to —if he ever did come to—in the
swift and muddy Hoogly. A carriage driver
stopped to watch the proceedings. A rival
remarked that he looked as though he might be
a kidnapper. In about four minutes the mob had,
by means of petroleum, transformed the suspected
one’s vehicle into a burning ghat, and had him
grilling vigorously thereon. In another part of
the town some Punjabi footballers were being
driven to the railway station. They never got
there. Some one simply said, “There go the
kidnappers, ” and all was over. The distinction
seems to be but faint, after all, between the
U.S.A. citizen in a panic, the Bengali gone
frantic, and the Britisher on the maffick.
•* * * *
“ Melb ” writes diffuseljM—
There are some curious points about the American
ship Shenandoah, now in port here. It is the largest
wooden ship in the world. Our pilots were astounded to
hear that it was bound from Baltimore to San Francisco,
with coal for the U.S. fleet. The captain found he had
such a ramshackle crew, that to tackle the Horn would
have meant sudden death.. So he took the Cape of Good
Hope for it. The ship Sprang a chasm rather than a leak,
and the crew was at the pumps day and night for many
weeks before making Port Phillip Heads. Seven nations
are represented in that crew, and seven languages cursed
at the pumps. New sails were blown away through the
incompetence of this confused multitude of cabmen and
sundries gone to sea. The name of the Shenandoah
recalls the other one, the Alabama’s nefarious mate and
marine pal. That Shenandoah put into Melbourne to
refit. The Melbourne Club gave a dinner to the officers,
who lodged at John Cleeland’s Albion Hotel. This gave
Cleeland the idea of naming his grey filly Shenandoah.
She failed in the Melbourne Cup, but he afterwards won
with Wollomai, named after his property over by where
the mutton-birds live.
•* * * *
A novel point came up before a Sydney
magistrate lately. A young man was brought
before the Quarter Sessions for breaking into a
dwelling. He was convicted and sentenced to
imprisonment. Then he was released under the
First Offenders Act, the police giving him a good
character, and a bondsman for £lOO being found.
No sooner had the bonds been entered into than
the police re-arrested the young man on a charge
of assaulting a policeman, the said assault having
taken place before the date of the house-breaking.
This time the sentence was £5 or three months.
Then the police solemnly demanded the forfeiture
of the £lOO bond, apparently on the ground that
the prisoner, to whom they had given a good
character, was really a bad character, and on the
plea that the man who has given security that
another person will behave himself well for the
next 12 months is liable to pay up if that person
had misconducted himself during the previous 12
months. They didn’t get the money, but their
nerve excited a lot of admiration.
ALL TOO TRUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King Edward in his reply said : “I am confident the
youth of the nation is full of promise, and I am gratified
to hear that our great colonies recognise the excellence
of British schools, and are anxious, where possible, to
send their children home.”— Cable neivs in Sydney Tele-
graph, 29/7 f07.
It must be true —
If Ned’s remarks anent the youth
Of England’s race were an untruth,
It wouldn’t do.
The boys of Bewdley-upon-Sludge
Are full of promise. Hodge, the drudge.
Is educated up to say
“ Ess, squoire, zur, it be voine to-day.”
Reports have shown
That Yorkshire brats of nine and ten
“ Knaw moast es much es oalder men ”;
Whilst London town
Says “ heach an’ hall ’er young recruits ”
Show progress marked in Latin roots.
I know it’s true —
When I was u orking in the bush
Amongst the rouseaboutingpush
And shearing crew,
Our lads, or so I wrongly thought,
By Austral masters had been taught,
But since I came to town I’ve met
With membahs of the culchaw’d set
And changed my mind.
Their “ haw” and “denunit” prove that they
Are finished in the English way;
Their parents pined
For Eton’s classic precincts cool,
So sent their youngsters “ home” to school.
It’s rightly true—
Australian citizens should be
Conservative to a degree,
And stick like glue
To old traditions, precepts bald
In some remote stone age installed.
We want our kids to mimic “ dooks"
And sundry other Freetrade spooks
Across the foam.
To cleanse them from Democracy
And fill them up with snobbery
We’ll send them “ home ” ;
And if they wish to treat us fair
They’ll manage to stay over there.
N.S.W.
VELDT.
DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full I*'lt EE particulars. Address—
" EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D, 26), Sydney. N.S.W.
As a rule, ifc is best to let the unconscious
humor of the obituary column pass on its way
unnoticed, but the following, which appeared in
the S.M. Herald last week, is in a category by
itself and defies rules: —
PLUGGE.—In memory of our darling daughter and
sister, Pop, Who departed this life August 9, 1906.
We think of her at early niorn,
We think of her at noon,
We did not think our darling Pop
Was going to die so soon.
The name of Plugge calls for serious consideration.
* * * *
A stands for Asthma, the patient may fret;
H for the Breath he hardly can get;
<' for the Cold and the terrible Croup ;
1> for the Dollars the doctor will scoop ;
E for the Ease that one longs for in vain ;
E for the “ Floo,” it is at one again ;
G for the Giant—Great Peppermint Cure-
El for the Health that follows it sure.*
Have you a friend abroad to whom you
wish to give an idea of the real Australian humor?
A handsome present would be Hop’s book.
Certainly it costs 215., but it’s worth double the
money. Send for it to this office.*
PITMANS
S'C?
!OUCV
to
Send for “Home Study,” Post Free.
STOTT (a HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street- SYDNEY.
COMMERCIAL
fH W*
IliiiiiiiiiiiU
RITInG
'mu-
AU PUBLIC UAMSS


When Anglican Archdeacon Hindley got
up in St. Paul’s Cathedral (Melb.), t’other Sun-
day, to ask the question that worries so many
latter-day parsons: “ Why don’t men go to
church,” he probably didn’t expect so swift an
answer. But the little ’Erald resolved to oblige
him, so next day it set out to interview public
servants, professional men, business men, work-
ing men ; and all with one consent gave much the
same reason—“ Why should we go? What’s
there to go for ? ” The Church, they told the
Archdeacon, can stimulate no new thought nor
create any new interest. The Gospel of Christ is
there, but the Church doesn’t preach it—on the
contrary, it habitually stands as the advocate and
ally of the evil order of things. As a business
proposition, most of them added, it is also a
fraud ; it expects, payment, from a tray-bit to a
tenner, and it gives absolutely nothing in return.
Whether the Archdeacon felt any better after
getting what he asked for hasn’t transpired.
-K * * *
Brisbane’s hopes that it would get a change
from the muddy Enoggera tap and the mosquito-
infested tank by importing Yankee expert
Hazen, at a cost of about £4OOO, have been
emptied out. The householder looked to
Stradbroke Island with confidence, but Hazen
shakes his head, and gives no more consola-
tion for the money lavished on him than the
statement that the city may have more of the
local river water at a further outlay of £500,000.
And Brisbane knew all that and more years ago.
A HORSE
ON HIM.
“Everybody says you'll make me a good wife."
“ Yes I And won't it be a surprise to them when
they find I make you a good husband! ”
The pioneers of the Western District of
Victoria are an enduring race of Methuselahs.
At Terang there was a marriage a week or so ago.
The bridegroom was aged 84, but he didn’t look
it. The bride, aged 75, was given away by a
male parent of 98. The bride’s twin sister was
bridesmaid. The best man was aged 89 ; and the
life of man being three score and ten, he already
owed Time a bill which was 19 years overdue, and
Time’s office boy. Death, doesn’t seem to have a
ghost of a chance of collecting l it for a long while
yet.
“Barb”:
Not long ago
someone wrote to
The Bulletin
about the spite
and unfriendli-
ness shown each
other by bush-
ites. No one who
has lived out-
back in a small
community will
deny what he
said, but then
how can that
sort of thing be
avoided ? We
have no grand
opera company
to discuss. Most
of us don’t know
there’s been a
football match,
and the rest of
us never heard
of Carruthers,
and glory knows
we must talk
about some-
thing, so we talk
abouteach other.
The men are
•very bit as
libellous as the
women, but the
women have an
unfortunate
habit of tearing
round and telling
the defamed Cat
what the de-
faming Cat said
about her. Hence
the quarrels. It’s
all a matter of
Cats. The
Calumniating
Cat starts it, and
she is numerous.
Th e Carrying
Cat runs along
with it, and she
is innumerable.
The Caricatured
Cat hears it,
and afterwards the Calculating Cat makes
it worse by sympathising with her—ditto
the Capricious Cat. But let one of us fall
seriously ill or suffer heavy losses. Then keep an
eye on the enemies. If a subscription is raised
they head they list. In case of sickness it is the
worst Cat who comes along with the tenderest
chicken in her ciaw and the most nourishing
broth slung over her tail. Even a useless beggar
who won’t work can be sure of sub-
stantial help if in real trouble.
Subscription lists of £7O and £lOO
are common things. The bush
mind may be narrow, but the bush
heart’s in the right place when it’s
wanted.
* * #
With all its faults, and alleged
faults, Sydney has one advantage
over other modern cities : it has so
far avoided the sky-scraper, and it is
to be hoped that the Council, in
drafting the new building law, will
take notice of the word of warning
uttered by the president of the Archi-
tects’ Institute about this sky-rending
monstrosity. It doesn’t require a
trained engineer to recognise that the
big steel-framed building must be-
come a source of great danger as
years pass, and it is a matter of
certainty that, in another half-cen-
tury, the sere and yellow mega-
theriums of New York will commence
crumbling into debris. Possibly they
will crumble to the accompaniment of
as many deaths as the earthquake
brought on San Francisco. When
the concrete encompassing a steel
frame hardens, it naturally con-
tracts, leaving a space which may fill
with water, but which will certainly
fill with air. If water fills the space,
the work of destruction will be
hastened ; but if only air enters, it is
still simply a matter of time before
the dampness causes rust to develop,
and in time the rust must eat through
some essential point. The strength
of a sky-scraper is the strength of its
weakest rivet, and when one goes
others will follow, until the weight of
the superimposed bulk proves too
much for its supports. This is the
ultimate and dramatic trouble that
the sky-scraper will bring about; but
the chances are that long before it comes
down with a mighty smash, it will kill very
many people by the diseases that arise through
the shutting out of sunlight and air. The
/municipalities of London and Paris and of every
up-to-date European city limit the rapacity of
landlords by limiting the height of buildings, and
were it not for the “pull” that Yankee millionaires
have, a similar law would probably have been in
operation in the U.S. long ago. .ZEsthetically
the sky-scraper is a nightmare; practically it is a
curse and a disease ; finally it promises to be a big
tragedy.
■* * * *
A Melbourne item of a week or two ago:—
At the Insolvency Court to-day, Frank Moody, a civil
servant, applied for a certificate of discharge and dis-
pensation.
Judge Eagleson commented vigorously on the request,
and refused to grant the order unless the insolvent under-
took to pay £3l6s. 6d. monthly, until he paid the amount
of his debts, £91 —equal to 20s. in the £l.
This has caused a scare amongst the bad payers of the
service.
It seems a real pity that Judge Rhadamanthus
Eagleson wasn’t on the Vic. Insolvency Bench
some 12 years ago. These were the days when
Drone failed for £1,720,175 and had the cheek to
say his assets were worth £500,900 —the assets
that finally resolved themselves into |d. in the £.
Then there was Loaf who went up for £548,000
and paid Id. in the £ ; and Leaner who paid Id.
in the £on £395,000; and Cool who paid Id. on
£265,000 ; and any number more. If these men
had been ordered to pay up in full before they
got their discharge, some of them would be
working yet.
THE JACKEROO.
“ And haven't you an animal called a jackeroo
in Australia? I should so love to have the
skin of one.”
The familiar lady with a hankering to
“make a charge” against someone, bobbed up
again recently. The scene was laid in a Sydney
coffee palace run by a Turk. The accuser found
the awful proceedings so diverting that she
became at times almost speechless with merri-
ment. Her alleged ravisher, whom, to the
amazement of the presiding Judge, she
affectionately spoke of, and to, as “ Jim,” had
his sense of humor interfered with by the possi-
bility of getting hanged, and remained serious.
He escaped on this occasion, chiefly because he
happened to have a badly-crushed right hand —
medical evidence going to show that he could not,
in the circumstances, have struggled with an
infant, much less his buxom accuser. But the
next “ Jim ” that happens along will probably
have a sound hand, in which case there may be
an execution in his family, unless something is
done to suppress that kind of girl. And there is
absolutely no news to the effect that anything—
such as three years’ hard labor for perjury—hap-
pened to the girl.
* * * *
“ N.L. ” : Who invented the gruesome
idea of “memorial drinking fountains,” as now
scattered around most big Australian cities? And
who drinks at them, except dogs now and then ?
Still, I suppose they serve a good purpose as fly-
drowners.
“BRITISH."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the quarterly meeting of the council of the Vic-
torian Scottish Union in Melbourne it was stated that Mr.
G. H. Reid, having been remonstrated with by the secre-
tary for using in his speeches the words “ England ”
and “ English” instead of “ Britain ” and “ British,” had
replied, “ I must plead guilty in some cases, although
in many other cases I used the terms ' Britain ’ and
* British.’”
The adjective “ British ” both right and precise is !
(Its origin may be inscrutable !)
For Davises, Joneses and Pritchards and Prices
The term is remarkably suitable !
It also may serve for the English and Scottish,
The Browns and the Greens and MacAlisters ;
Since Jamie’s inducture
It fits the whole structure,
The cornices, friezes and balusters !
For Thompson and Wilson and Johnson and Jackson
And Robson and Hobson and Harrison,
Or anyone else of an origin Saxon
’Twill suit beyond any comparison !
But what of McCarthy, O’Donnell and party?
Bejabers they’d never get cool again !
A good name to lavish
On Smith or McTavish
But devil a bit for O’Hooligan !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
THE ESTHETIC CORNSACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A cornsack of 2001 b. would assume an inconvenient and
ill-looking shape.— L. L. Lewis, an elderly gentleman
with fierce whiskers, who writes letters to Melbourne
Argus.
Ants, who stagger beneath your load,
Plodding half-dead on a weary road,
Hear the speeches of Tory mode—
(They act as a strong emetic !)
“ What! a sack of two hundred pound?
It never will answer, I’ll be bound ;
It is bulgy, dumpy, podgy, and round,
And horribly anaesthetic 1
“ Carry your burden from day to day,
Till your spine is curved and your joints give way ;
The heavy sacks are the sacks that pay
The capitalist splenetic.
Though over your loins the burden sags,
And slower and slower your worn frame drags,
Men’s lives are cheaper to us than bags—
And that is a pose .esthetic 1 ”
To beasts of burden the law is kind ;
To the half-dead horse it is not resigned;
It is only brutal, and dull, and blind
To a man too energetic.
’Tis he alone who must sweat and strain,
And crawl from sleep to be downed again,
Until at the end of his life-long pain
Conies death as an anaesthetic 1
VIC.
L.
RHEUMATISM
Ob Neuralgia, Gout, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Lumbago,
Anaemia, Insomnia, Etc.,
ABSOLUTELY CURED BY . , .
RHEUMAGNETIC Treatment
(Patented.)
Recent development of Medical Science. Adopted by
Medical Men. If not yet available at your Chemists
write direct for particulars to
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville Street, Hobart.
Did you ever see a petroleum well ? The
workers at these wells never have consumption or
any form of lung trouble. If they catch cold they
take liberal doses of crude petroleum, and it never
fails to cure them. Angier’s Emulsion is specially
purified crude petroleum combined with the
hypophosphites. There is nothing equal to it for
coughs and lung affections, and it is pleasant to
take. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Perihelion : A mere fight between a policeman
and a drunk ceased to rank as literature a good 400 years
ago R. Badger: You say “Under separate cover I
send a short story ” —no name mentioned. Also under
separate cover we received a typed story, without name
or address. And we asked the four wild winds whether
it was your short story or not, and all the answer they
made was “ Wh005h.”....J.0. (Urimbi): The Bulletin
hasn’t any friendship for a co. that will “ seek to acquire
a concession to construct the railway from Oodnadatta
to Pine Creek.” If a syndicate can get the capital, Aus-
tralia can—and get it cheaper. Also The Bulletin has
less friendship for a co. that “ would endeavor to acquire
all country adjacent to Lake Eyre south of the 26th
parallel.” This paper finds it too tough a job
to shift the big landlord out of the south,
and it won’t help to plant him in the north
Aquae : But the shell deposits you speak of aren’t even
remotely “similar” to those the other men wrote about.
All the similarity there is could be put in a fly’s ear
Waukeroo: Even if the hero’s name wasn’t Philip
Snopper he wouldn’t be interesting. And his name is
P. Snopper Nick : One good one among the three. No
name nor address Signet: There is an air of strength
and vigor about your verses, but they seem to be apropos
of nothing... .First Offence: Fair to middling verse.
Doesn’t seem to be any special reason for it.. . .Gee Bung:
Quaint idea. Would pass if verse were a little better
Rimu : You say the Maoriland West Coast never had a
boom till the Ballance Government came in. Well, if the
days of the Welcome, United Alpine, Wealth of
Nations, and other mines, and the alluvial days before
them, weren’t a boom, they were a fair imitation. There
was a time when Reef ton tried to maintain about 33
sharebrokers, and nearly every one of them could main-
tain a public-house all on his own. And if the boom
didn’t spread south, then where is all the money this
writer left in Wild Cat about Ross? Send it back at
once W.D. : Picture of the mouth of a tunnel with
the title “Ye Generation of Vipers” declined Fos-
siclter : Don’t think the case calls for remarks. We only
laughed W. Humph: Don’t profess to acknowledge
pars in this column, unless there is something very
unusual about them. It deals almost exclusively with
rejected tales and verse, and when stamps are en-
closed for return, it doesn’t even deal with them....
Pot Jostler, jun.: Please send name and address to
Accountant. You sent it once, but our puzzle depart-
ment gave it up Cher: Many demerits —notably, bad
metre G.N. : The bell-bird has been done to death as
a verse-subject. Try tbe dinner-bell for a change
J.B. : Realistic, but rather weakly narrated H.J.T. :
Crude and commonplace Peteritski: The “lost
children” theme has been so hard-worked that it now
needs almost genius to deal with it effectively... .G.G. :
That painful “ situation ” has been too often used already.
....C.L.H. : Rather well done, but we don’t care for
parodies Teddy: Not worth the 2d., short postage,
paid on it. Same old assumption that a Vic. Id.-stamp
will carry a letter anywhere Chas. E.: Facile rhymes,
but no Australian interest Limp : Not enough in it
Tea-Tree: They do not fail by much, but they are somewhat
too mechanical of form and monotonous of sentiment
Australian : A. Carnegie, Skibo Castle, Sutherland, Scot-
land, will find him. But if it is another begging expedi-
tion, then for Heaven’s sake don’t write E.E.: A neat
little poemlet, but the fact that winter won’t last for ever
is almost as well known as the fact that a dog usually has
four legs Jessie H. : You have to learn to spell yet —
L.J.V. : The versification is pretty good, but the language
is strained and unnatural.. ..Mary M. : Too fragmentary,
though there’s food for thought in it... .F.N. : “ Without
form and void.” J. Dorgan : The possibilities of it have
not been made the most of.. ..Mish: A foolish second-hand
slander ; and, as for doggerel(which, by the way, you can-
not spell), your own would be hard to beat.. .Dermot: In-
genious, but rather silly 0.T.C.: Its only good features
are not original.... Maisie: Too jerky and incoherent...
H.O. : (1) Maoriland population—lBB6, 578,482 ; 1891,
626,658 ; 1896, 703,360 ; 1901, 772,719 ; 1906, 888,578. (2)
No ; but he was briefed for it in one jury-case... .Juno:
199 Clarence-street, Sydney Rosella: Hardly worlb
print... .Comet: A miracle of incoherence 1 Leonardo:
Too roughly thrown together Starlight: Its interest
is too purely local Banool: Defective workmanship.
Priscilla: No, it’s not hopeless; but it might have
been much more powerfully treated Zif : Has no very
striking faults, but nevertheless fails to impress
T.A.I). : Mere purposeless twaddle O.K. : Too long
and too loose-jointed. Also, that pen-name belongs to
another man whose writings aren’t loose-jointed
Marah : A praiseworthy attempt, but you lack the neces-
sary experience H.S.R. : King Leopold is rather far
away, and does not want for European critics Eueph :
Tired of Squires poetry. Yours was the 52nd dirge on
Bill S J.E.T.: Barmaid article too long. None but a
religious journal would print 1000 words about the habits
of barmaids.... Boulia : What is the name of that Queens-
land town where they charge you £2 10s. to put three
bolts in your brake block, also 6d. for a box of vestas and
2s. 6d. for a two months’ old Bulletin?. .. .F.H.R. : In
stating that your friend Williams shot a pig with a rifle,
you employ enough words to describe the death by slow
poison of a rhinoceros A.D. : Pretty well done, but
hardly calls at the top of its voice for print T.V.T. :
Some of it goes well, but there are too many weak spots.
....C.S.G. : Flat and feeble.... Leo C. : Required more
dash and vigor of treatment... .A.D.Q. : Humor strained
and artificial S.W. : Both quite conventional and undis-
tinguished.. H.F.T. : Interesting material, rather ineffect-
ively dealt with... Dick H. : Spoilt by several weak lines...
G.R.B. ; There are points in it, but the form is awkward.
Why use a mouthpiece at all ?.-... Hfeloise : Lacks dramatic
force, and gives no illusion of actuality Quiz: Your
English is very defective....Sambo : Has hardly point
enough....Massa: Too indefinite and topsy-turvey.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
G.D.L. : The lady is a jim-jam, and the joke has been
published 50 times already, and, in any case, we don’t
want a Ist of April joke in August.. . .R.G.C.: You’ve at
least invented a new style of art and a new variety of the
human form.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
Not Too ILarly for Panamas.
NO —its not a bit too early for
Panamas. The Summer is
coming in early, and you’ll want
some sort of a shade hat —so the
Panama should suit you well.
These are pocket Panamas, and
fold up very small. They are not
Continental goods, but genuine
South American natives.
Very even in color and plait, with
brims from 3Jin. to 3fin.
You can pay a much higher price
for a Panama, but this one at
18/6 is an absolutely high-class
hat —real Panama.
Price 18/0 each; postage 6d. extra.
State Size when Ordering.
PEAPES & CO, LTD ♦* Men's Outfitters*
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


modern Of C,vihftp6* ’ *S
£> , Co*v,n,i/hi|'y lift . elf.
*v. w«-k f*y t« l-y^
lone a»b * h 7^f 1 [ok
hoTifiaujtie** /' ( Ji/dKihsl
TifC W OrK
do i n<s •
Hi iced fa ~(
y©i*r Combi hr <
lf W*-* MaulJ only \
Keef> on
urhli stfyyJJ'Qbng'.
Well b*“* , Miene
be
In Miff)
» r
l ym 1
Tv/O-fcK--
—
ihe »rriri t l s, \ if T i
l,rtr y Mie*,, —
s"> be i* ~
f> 0 yours ;
Rei4 slfooK (
V/ltfj
(J)vly J
V^+cV
j|p
Ysk
tfoW |pj
J ' v vrf,S
l*
$' NV
• s « a +^ e
co>* r i^
'S' y V
>\y -v -\°r < < I
V^>^v 1
V 'V'
'H/e
-Thfvvev
k 4(<l /A
gows'tt'nre
elector*, T7Vfe declared tnjA'for'of i^oUcilo*n .
NVe to ’
|sor>c(ry FreetV^der^J
Ih7 S«»"C itj> only
it”out"of its
hi'iyry if ) do its
been
'fat' Son* <2 t"i*v)« }
CaßSKCtfui.
✓APY&R7IS EMt *T
jMevfHbn "ifyi } | >^j>< i£J
SOME CELEBRITIES AND SOME PEOPLE OF NO IMPORTANCE.


ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
SKETCH AT MITCHELL (QUEENSLAND).
The mail buggy suddenly encountered a quantity of elephants connected with Wirth’s Circus.
The buggy-horse, not having met elephants before, promptly broke up and fled. One of
the pachyderms was borrowed to fill the gap, and the mail cart entered Mitchell in triumph.
One of the obscure identities of Sydney is
Horace, the horse that waits at the end of
Pyrmont Bridge to tow the ’bus up the Market-
street hill. He is a humorist, and delights in
scaring seven years’ growth out of his fellow prads
and their drivers. It is Horace’s pleasing habit to
pretend that he is blind or drunk, and, as soon as
he is hooked on to the pole of the ’bus, he starts
to meander across the roadway as if he were
making straight for the door of the sixpenny
eating house opposite. The drivers of vehicles
descending the hill yell put in consternation, they
haul their left reins hard, and the eyes of their
own horses nearly start out of their heads as they
brace themselves for the bump. But the bump
never comes. Just as it is imminent Horace the
Horse swerves aside with a smile on his count-
enance, and, finding the middle of the road, awaits
his next victim. If Horace can’t give a surprise
to three horses and five human beings in each
ascent, it makes him miserable for a day, and he
won’t eat his oats at night.
“Barb”: Here, in Kosciusko’s shadow,
the hungry birds grow very tame in the winter.
Magpies trip you up as you till the frozen soil,
and robins and blue wrens come regularly to be
fed. To-day, from inside a closed window, I
watched with admiration a king-parrot preening
himself on the garden fence. Magpies, grub-
hunting in the newly-turned earth, looked up
and shrieked deafeningly. A hawk, with light-
ning-like dart, struck at the parrot, bearing him
to the ground. The parroi shifted along as best
he could until he reached the compost heap a foot
distant, and burying his head and neck under
the refuse, lay on his back and scratched the
hawk for all he was worth. Parrots—especially
king-parrots—are ornamental, and a gunshot
promptly settled things for the hawk. Latter
must h;£ve been a very hungry hawk indeed to
venture so near the humpy. Never saw one
tackle a parrot before.
■* * * *
A letter from a back region of Westralia,
professing to describe how the State Government
(which has a good deal to say about “Federal”
mismanagement) attends to some of its own
affairs: —
Visiting Black Range recently I struck a mournful-
looking, tattered edifice, which turned out to be the
local morgue. It was a structure about 10ft. square and
covered with hessian. Inside its unadorned walls was
accommodation, consisting of up-ended boxes, for two
corpses. “We don’t let more’n two in at a time,” said a
dismal rouseabout attached to the morgue staff. I put
a query as to the utility of a new strip of canvas tacked
about the white-ant-ravaged dado of the dead-house.
“ That,” observed the rouseabout, gloomily : “ that’s to
keep the dawgs away. Dingoes is always sneakin’ round
here. Shot two er the cows last night. We’ad a bloke
here once,” continued the rouseabout, becoming - com-
municative ; “ had delirium trimmings and snuffed. The
night arter we got ’im in I kem back from tea and
couldn’t see ’im nowhere. Fancyin’ I heard a noise, I
goes out witfl a lantern, an’ finds ’im about a hundred
yards in the mulga with three of them cussed dingoes... .
We buried him, that’s all, and nobody knew anything.”
The doctor, an affable old soul, lately from Sydney-side,
when post-morteming subjects in this confined den has,
to use his own words, “a h — lof a time.” Additions and
improvements to the weird building are “ under the con-
sideration of the Department,” in response to a great
public clamor for reform.
* * * *
“ J.G-.” writes :
“ Revolo ” says (B. 27/6/’O7) that I was wrong in stating
that no crop can be harvested off stinkwort-infested
land. Well, perhaps I should have said that only dashed
poor crops can be harvested. At the same time I would
like “ Revolo ” to tell me where I could see a good crop
of grain (say wheat), or even an indifferent crop, that
has been grown on wort-infested land. If “ Revolo ” was
in certain North Victorian districts at harvest time he
would see much wort growing to the square yard. And
when the weed gets into a cultivation paddock it plays
Aged Henry with the crop yields, reducing them like a
devastating plague—which it is. Stinkwort commences
to grow about the end of October, or early in November,
just when the g - rain crops require all the nourishment
they can get from the soil. And 1 it stands to reason that
if an immense army of stinkwort comes into a crop pad-
dock, and fights the crop, one or other must go under.
Invariably it is the prolific stinkwort that comes out of
the scrap unhurt. “Revolo” also says that stock will
eat stinkwort, and live on it, too. But, if milking cows
were to eat stinkwort, what sort of taste would their milk
have, and if the cream of the milk was to be made into butter
and exported, the trade in Australian butter would be
killed stone dead, for the smell of stinkwort is something
awful, whilst the taste of it would never leave you this
side of the cold and silent tonib. I think that anyone
who gets up to defend stinkwort as a forage plant should
be dealt with to the utmost extent of the law. People
who are too lazy to eradicate pgsts have.always a pair of
excuses : (1) That the thing - is so easily eradicated that it
doesn’t matter —in fact, it is so easy that they leave it
alone ; (2) that it isn’t a pest at all, so it doesn’t signify.
And between the thing that doesn’t matter and. the fact
that doesn’t signify, to say nothing of the affair that is
of no importance, a lot of people are letting it slide.
Some wondrous J’s.P. climb on to the
Bench at times—most times, in fact. 'Recently in
a small Queensland town six Solomons sat to hear
a charge against the local publican of selling
liquor to our demoralised black brother. The
policeman tendered his evidence, and then the
solitary lawyer uncoiled himself like a serpent,
and asked that the case should be dismissed for
insufficiency of evidence. The six J’s.P. retired
to consider the point, and the lawyer filled in time
by marshalling the various testifiers who were
prepared to swear that the black brother had
hop beer only. Ten minutes passed, then
the Solomons filed in and announced that
they had decided to fine Mr. Public-House £2O.
At this point the lawyer filled the place with
shouts and clamor, and pointed to his witnesses,
and said the case hadn’t been heard. But the
Bench sat firm, and Mr. Public-House came up
behind his lawyer and urged him to be calm,
because he couldn’t afford to offend six steady
drinkers. Then the lawyer gave a short yelp, and
upset his chair, and went out saying “pish,”
“pshaw,” “ phugh,” “humph,” “ s-s-s-s-st,”
“ pooh,” and things like that.
* « * »
No one ivlio takes Angier’s Emulsion will
ever complain of the taste. It looks and tastes
like cream, and is certainly the most palatable of
all emulsions. There is nothing equal to it for
coughs, bronchitis, and all lung affections. In
three sizes, of all chemists.*
TRUE POLITENESS.
MISS BUSH PUBLICAN: “ You'll escuse me. Mister, but we was wonderin' why you put yer bants
outside yer room larst night.”
VISITOR: “ Oh! I've been travelling in Japan lately. It's the custom there.”
“Lindy Lou”: Be “J. Scraggs ” and
carpet snake substitutes for cats. About Nerang
and Pimpama, near Brisbane, each family owns a
reptile of more or less length, whose duty it is to
pursue the wily rat by night and munch him as
the rosy light of dawn gleams faintly in the east.
As a rule, the carpet snake is caught and domesti-
cated at the early age of 3ft. Gin. As “J.
Scraggs ” remarks, the disappearance of rats and
mice ensues very promptly upon his arrival. To
sort of wed him to qhe Home, an occasional saucer
of milk is placed around, and the emptiness of the
receptacle next morning shows his appreciation of
the kindness. He gets quite used to people, and
loves to watch the family through a hole which
he has made in the wall-paper. Generally, he is
disposed of if he grows anything over Bft. long.
One reason is that, if he happens to miss a
step when pursuing a flying rat over the
rafters, he is apt to break one’s rest as he lands
with a “whop” on the bed. Another reason is
that as he matures he develops an odor reminis-
cent of several things, none of them desirable.
So he gets the bullet, and another young one is
procured. In those places it is almost safer for a
visitor to put poison near the cattle pup’s kennel
than to slaughter the carpet snake of the family’s
bosom.
* * ■* *
“Rata”: “Hamer’s” experience (B.
4/7/’O7) of the Wairarapa Maoris applies generally
to those north of Auckland, with this difference,
that whereas the Wairarapa Maori hasn’t much
on him, the Maori in the north, particularly if he
lives away from the townships, has a good deal on
him, and the women even more—but it is not
clothing. He has a wretched system of com-
munism, and a hard-working brown man has in-
variably to provide kai (food) for his loafing rela-
tions and a crowd of hangers-on. The Maori
is crafty, and it is one of his greatest
pleasures to exercise this—in his opinion—
admirable faculty. Writer has never seen
a Maori read, although many of them can read
and write both Maori and English. They can,
however, talk a lot, and are good thinkers—though
slow. It is difficult to flurry or bounce a Maori.
Only heard of one instance. The person involved
was the owner of a horse that was constantly
breaking through a neighbor’s fence and other-
wise damaging his property. Every time this
sad event happened the Maori went to fetch
Bucephalus back, and by his plausibility, apolo-
gies and promises that the event should not
occur again, he smoothed things over. Finally,
however, the steed got into some valuable crops,
and played havoc with them. The Maori, nowise
daunted, arrived as usual with a smile on his
face and his mouth bulged out with plausible ex-
planations. The neighbor cursed both him and
his horse, and told him to shoot it and put an end
to the trouble. The Maori blandly replied that
he hadn’t a gun, otherwise he would be pleased
to oblige. The neighbor got his gun promptly,
and thrusting it into the Maori’s hand ordered
him to shoot. The horse was close at hand, and
the flustered native fired and shot the animal
stone dead. Then he had time to think, and to
talk and to get all his friends and relations to
talk’ with him, and the result; of their united
efforts was that he decided to bring an action
against his neighbor for inciting to kill. A
wondrous bush lawyer is our brown brother.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Can any consistent
borrower of Tile Bulletin tell me why the out-
back parrots (galah, ring-neck, corella. Major
Mitchell, etc.) take so kindly to cooked and
uncooked meat when in a state of captivity ? My
colored collection, brought all the way from
Further Out, fairly love a, bit of steak. Strange
to say, too much meat makes them peculiarly pug-
nacious. At several Back-o’-Sunset homesteads
(notably at the Fowler’s Gap hotel) all the parrots
were fed on scraps of cooked meat during the
drought. Grain was too dear. The birds throve
on their meat diet. Do they ever eat flesh when
enjoying their natural freedom?
THE RETORT COURTEOUS.
MRS. KNAGGS: "What yer wearin' that black
band round yer hat for ?”
MR. KNAGGS: “ That's for your first 'usband.
I’m sorry 'e died.”
An ingenious person has put forward a
new scheme for rabbit destruction. His idea is
to light a fire under a boiler on wheels, wheel the
outfit up to a rabbit burrow, and then force steam
into bunny’s home. This is reminiscent of the
long-ago-advertised flea-destruction powder, into
which the flea was held head downwards until it
suffocated. i
PADDY FLYNN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How I miss you, Paddy Flynn,
With your broad contagious grin,
With your cheery voice and honest, vyce-like hand !
I can picture you to-day
As you were, when far away,
We made merry round the camp-fire on the Bland,
Paddy Flynn!
When we drove big mobs of cattle overland.
I can see you, Paddy Flynn,
As you rushed the stragglers in,
Riding recklessly, untamable and wild.
I can feel your soft couch now,
As it soothed my aching brow,
When you charmed away my fever as you smiled,
Paddy Flynn 1
As the crooning of a mother soothes her child.
We were happy, Paddy Flynn,
Through the toil and dust and din.
We were merry 'neath the sun’s relentless glare.
We were free and young and gay,
And we chased dull dreams away ;
We had not a hope or thought we didn’t share,
Paddy Flynn 1
And we had no time for sorrow, grief, or care.
We were comrades, Paddy Flynn,
Till we met that nymph of sin,
With the full, red, painted lips and jet-black eyes.
Who so charmed us with her wiles,
With her witchery and smiles,
That she made the evil passions in us rise
Paddy Flynn !
And she roused the jealous hate that seldom dies.
How she mocked us, Paddy Flynn,
Saying, “ Those who love should win,”
’Till she fanned our smouldering passion to a flame !
’Till we grappled—you and I
Each resolved to win or die —
And we fought like savage beasts that nought could
tame,
Paddy Flynn 1
’Till the rough crowd intervened for very shame.
Ah I she fooled us, Paddy Flynn.
While we fought, she stayed within ;
She was packing up her trousseau for her flight.
We were just a pair of fools,
For she made us both her tools,
And, while all the crowd turned out to see the fight,
Paddy Flynn !
She was packing. And she fled, with Jim, that night.
Sol miss you, Paddy Flynn,
With 3'our kind, good-temper’d grin,
For I want you, when I feel depressed and sad
And I feel inclined to swear,
When I think what fools we were
When we let that black-eyed vixen drive us mad,
Paddy Flynn,
And I lost the truest mate man ever had.
x.s.w.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
He was the cotter’s only child,
They called him Little Jim,
And Death with scythe and hour-glass had
Called round to wait on him ;
The mother wept, the father sobbed,
For death looked very sure,
But Little Jim’s still in the swim
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Limited, Agents.
David vStorer (Q, sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY ....
Iri Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(St BLUE.
Kept by . ..
ALL MERCHANTS
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OR
SHEEP BRANDING OIL
THE PERFECT
tHFFP.MARKER.


“ Jaybell ” writes (The Bulletin doesn’t
believe him in the slightest, but his language, is
interesting) :■ —
“E.”(B. 27/6/’O7) hits the nail squarely on the dome,
but makes no fresh discovery in the realm of cockydom
when he finds, “more envy, malice, uncharitableness,
backbiting, and petty meanness in scattered scrub com-
munities than is discoverable in the city.” In the matter
of spleen, malice and envy towards his countryside
neighbors, the untutored Hottentot, his filed teeth' not-
withstanding, is many degrees behind the average
pumpkin potentate, and when it conies to biting-
satire on the lives and habits of his own class in the
district he beats the Bosjesman badly. This is un-
doubtedly the outcome of covetousness, fostered in the
cocky breast.sinee the time when the first of the species
dropped out of the Ark and went in quest of a bit of
arable territory above flood mark. His animosity is a
measurable quantity according to the amount of.his
neighbors’ milk receipts at the factory, the average of
their crops, the pattern of their buggies, the millinery of
their womenfolk, the number of their cattle, the porki-
ness of their swine, their contributions on the Sabbath
plate—when there happens to be a plate—and. dozens of
other ways and means well known to the bush for sizing
tip the cash credit of the individual from daily and
general outward signs and circumstances. Avarice isn’i
UNFORTUNATE RETICENCE.
HOOKIE: “ That’ll teach him t’ arnser when er
bloke arsks him er civil question."
PIPPER: “But, lor’ blime, ’e’s deaf 'n' dumb!"
HOOKIE (remorselessly) .-“ Well, why didn’ be
say so? ”
a failing- with the present-day cocky ; it is his creed, his
hope, his joy, his entertainment and pastime ; and while
he sees his neighbors going one better than himself at
the creamery or at the produce market, it is a haunting
spook that pours more and more vinegar on his soured
nature, and incites him to invent skeletons for his neigh-
bors’ cupboards, and expletives to match his animositv.
Also, it provokes him to whistle up “ Bluey ” and
“Spot” and the bob-tailed pup, and sool them on to
his neighbor’s peaceful herds right in the middle of their
multitudinous cuds—which is very wicked, and some-
what calculated to lessen the receipts from the factory
where the cow-juice goes to.
“ Andante ” : Be Maoriland’s unsuccessful
attempt to found an Italian agricultural settle-
ment (“Hamer,” B. 4/7/’O7). On the North
Coast (N.S.W.), between the Clarence and Rich-
mond Rivers, there has existed for nearly 20
years a colony of Italians, who certainly do not
appear to be in any danger of drifting into the
ice-cream industry. “ New Italy ” looked hope-
less enough when the colonists started there, but
they cheerfully tackled the poor country, and now
there are dozens of prosperous farms, laid down
with grapes and bees, and the settlement gener-
ally is on the high road to comfort and independ-
ence. The settlers themselves are law-abiding ;
and, in spite of the fact that to a man the elders
speak Italian, they are good citizens. The
younger generation is numerous enough to sup-
port a fifth-class school, which for years has been
one of the model schools of the Richmond River
district.
* * ■* *
“ Flinderiuo ” : The recent discussion
about the petrified blackfellow that isn’t in the
Naracoorte caves, reminds me of a somewhat
similar case in Westralia. When the series of
caves in the Blackwood River district was found,
several years ago, a skeleton was discovered in an
inner recess of one of them. The police official at
Busselton, assisted by the local butcher and other
scientists-, held a post-mortem on the bones, and
were about to decide that they were those
of an aborigine. But expert evidence was unex-
pectedly forthcoming, and it was decided that the
deceased was a white man. The supposition is
that, years and years and years ago, one of Van
Diemen’s or some other Dutchman’s sailors found
his way ashore, and, being attacked by aborigines,
crawled into the cave for refuge. Then, not being
able to find the door again, he was starved to
death. The framework was still in the cave three
years ago, and is probably there yet; unless some
enthusiastic collector of relics has taken it home
to paste in his scrap album.
* * * +-
“ Impela ” : Be “G.H.P.” (B. 20/6/’O7)
and the “ tools” used by our black brother in the
manufacture of glass and stone spear-heads. Where
it can be obtained, a short length of No. 8 fencing-,
wire, ground to a sort of point, seems to be the
favorite tool for this- purpose, but, failing that,
Binghi employs a piece of wood, pointed and
hardened in the fire. The process is laborious and
slow. Taking a piece of glass Or stone somewhere
near the required shape, and holding the
tool in the same way as one would a
farrier’s knife, the blackfellow “presses” a tiny
chip from the edge of the material. No blows
are struck, but lie keeps pressing chips off till
the spearhead is completed, using a finer tool
to work in the serrations round the edge. Have
several specimens of spearheads obtained in Kim-
berley, and made chiefly of basalt and quartzite.
They are bound to the spears with sinews, and
cemented in place with spinifex gum.
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : Gorm was passing on his big
club-footed plough horse, that hit the road like a
pile driver as it jogged along. He was coming
from the township, and M'Allister shouted to
him as he passed. “Will veil be cornin’tu have
a look at thes, Meester Gorm ?” he said. Gorin
rode over to the fence, and M'Allister displayed
a big black snake
that had been beaten
all out of shape.
‘ Wad yell believe
it, lie nearly had me,
mon,” said M'Allis-
ter with a touch of
pride ; “as near as
dammit?” “How
did it happen?”
asked Gorm, in his
slow, dreary speech.
“ Weel,”.saitl Mack,
“ I was set'in’ here
in th’ sun,, as ye
might say, ’n’ bein’
warm ’n’ tired I fell
asleep. I was waken-
ed betimes by a
stranger man what
was shoutin’ at the
top o’ his voice ’n’
heatin’ the life oot o’
this monstrous rep-
tile. Eh, yeh may be
sure it gi’ed me th’
great fricht, for the
man a poor bit
swaggie told me
that he was passin’
when he saw th’
snake jist aboot ta
creep up th’ leg o’
me trousers. I never
had sa narrer an
escape fo>’ ma life in
all ma days, Mees-
ter Gorm.” Gorm
grinned. “Youdon’t
say,” lie drawled.
“ I think the bloke
must have been pull-
in’ your leg. Why,
I killed that snake
back by the sorrel
paddock when I was
goin’ up town this
mornin’. I could swear to him out o’ a thousand.
I saw he was gone when I passed jist now, but
reckoned th’ gohanners ’ad got him. That swaggio
thought he’d bustle you fera few bob when he. saw
you asleep, ’n’ so brought the snake along.”
M‘Allister’s eyes rounded, and he gasped with
indignation. “Losh, man!” he exclaimed,
“ and I nearly'gi’ed him sixpence ! ” So you see
it was a narrow escape, after all.
* * * *
“T.0.M.”:T0 the strenuousMalleeselector
the “ high life,” as described by the impecunious
“ Quida,” is a thing unknown. Recently got for an
acquaintance a billet with one of this tribe. The
boss was to travel sheep—a week’s journey—to
the northern Mallee, and Monty was to accompany
him. Preparations rather startled me—and lam
no epicure myself, I may mention—the stock-in-
trade consisting of a spring-cart and horse, three
dogs, a little bread, meat and tea, and two
blankets. Boss explained that at night each took
a blanket, and one lay at the head, the other at
the rear of the flock, Met the boss on his return,
and asked how Monty had suited him. “He
didn’t suit at all. He’s left.’’ “Left?” “Yes,
lie got too blarsted particular. He complained of
the slewing accommodation, so I had to sack
him ! ”
HAVING YOUR CAKE AND EATING YOUR CAKE.
MRS. GUNBLEAG ( after a shilling’s worth of melodrama): “We might just as well ’are 'ad a
couple of bottles of beer. It would ’are done us a lot more good."
“ Ilevqlo ” : Re stink wort. Let me tell
“ Polstan ” that sheep) will eat the weed. I have
seen them do it, not once but scores of times.
Stjnkwort never makes much headway in pad-
docks on which sheep are habitually grazed—a
fact which I reckon strong circumstantial evi-
dence. Once again, the wort is no detriment to
wheat-growing, though it causes much trouble and
profanity during.cropping operations. Another
fact about stinkwort is that it only grows in a wet
summer. It would be a blessing instead of a
drawback if it grew during the droughts, but it
doesn’t. If “ Polstan ” takes the trouble to in-
vestigate, he will find out that fat as well as half-
starved sheep will take it on. [This item has
been selected out of 14 stinkwort communications
received nll'at once. There seems to be a sudden
rush of stinkwort. At present there are on hand
of letters saying that sheep will eat the thing
and about lgoz. saying that cattle won’t. —Ed. B.]
* * * *
“Alba ” sends an Aboriginality from Eng-
land of all places
Struck a small dog-tragedy here last week. Was in a
field with a young farmer accompanied by two fox
terriers and ferrets. Arriving at a big rabbit-hole, we pro-
ceeded to flush burrow with ferret. Ferret wouldn’t go
in, but both dogs volunteered. “ Hole rayther big,”
said young Giles suspiciously as the first terrier slipped
in. We waited for half-an-hour, but no dog. Terrier
No. 2 whined and fretted until we slipped it. Waited an
hour. No dog. Young Giles inspected hole with rage
in his eyes, and then called to a couple of farm hands with
spades and picks. Half-an-hour’s digging revealed the
'body of tyke No. 2 mutilated and ripped to pieces. Exca-
vation proceeded until dog No. 1 was unearthed literally
bitten in half. “ Any tigers about here ?” I asked meekly.
Without answering, young Giles crossed to a neigboring
farm-house while the two laborers stood guard, one at each
end of the burrow. Giles interrupted the perspective
again, accompanied by a man with a huge bulldog. Hereat
excavations began again, accompanied by smoking opera-
tions from the other end. Bulldog stood between Giles’s
legs, watching man with spade tearing into the burrow.
By-and-bye smoke drifted from the hole. Then came a
Nose that looked at each of us in a wild, hurried wa3 r .
The Nose’s eye fell upon the bulldog. Nose withdrew,
making a disappointed kind of noise. Bmoke now poured
from hole, driving one the Nose into full view, in appear-
ance it resembled a giant plague-rat, crafty and full of
fight as a tin of gunpowder. It lasted about 13 seconds
before England secured a garotte hold arid chewed the
noble badger into silence. It may be admitted as an
afterthought that dead badger is not to be confounded
with our Stinking Fish party. There is a petrifying dis-
tinction. Australia can produce nothing capable of
breathing in the same hemisphere with the British badger.
* * * •
“ Silica ” : Nobody ever hears of it, but
I think there is a special Department or Board, or
something, in Queensland whose business it is to
think up names for railway stations, new and old.
This obscure Department gets a list of new
sidings from the engineer-in-charge, setting forth
that “monnikers” are urgently required at 47
miles 63 chains, 55 miles 19J chains, and 98 miles
3 roods. A full-dress conclave is immediately
summoned, and the conspirators plot together in
the cellar. The name of a squatter in the vicinity
(dead or alive) is as the Balm of Gilead to the
searchers ; failing him (or it), the cognomen of a
boss cocky, or a teamster‘whose mob once got
stuck thereabouts, has to do.. Accordingly, in a
few months the nearest local paper reports the
dispatch of three crates of fowls from Gore, and
the arrival of a stud bull at Thumpkins. Some-
times, as a result of a course in Cutcliffe Hyne, or
the skimming of an aboriginal record, the Depart-
ment perpetrates Cobba-da-mana, Omarna-ma, or
Coolmunda, which are all newly-named stations
on the extension to Inglewood, South Queensland.
When there are no new places to name, the
obscure Department keeps its hand in by think-
ing up new names for old places. A plot was
hatched in that way to give adult baptism to
Inglewood, and alter the name to Pariagna; hut
a deputation of enraged agriculturists persuaded
Thallon to let them die with the old name on
their tombstones. Years ago very brisk attempts
were made to re-christen townships on the older
lines ; but the persistence of the cocky who con-
tinued to take a ticket for Emu Vale when the
Department said he wanted to go to Neereeadah
damped the ardor considerably.
* * * *
“Cross Nibs”: Drought doesn’t wither
the Chinee’s guile. My Chinee, Ah Pong, was
the station cook ; and the hands often vainly im-
plored him for some butter (the station made its
own). Eventually Ginger Mick interviewed Ah
Pong, and, handing over a few dollars, asked him
if he knew where the dairy was. That bland
alien muttered, “Me sabee, all li,” then packed
the silver about his person. Cow-fat graced the
board in the hut for a week. One morning, how-
ever, the boss fell in upon Ah Pong, and desired
information relating to the cream shrinkage.
Pong led him to the back of the kitchen, and
pointed out a huge Shanghai rooster on the wood
heap. From there they passed into the dairy,
and the boss was shown certain impressions m
the butter. Said Pong, “Door leavem ope
sarmtime, loositer gettem in ; allee same eaten
but tar. Catchem footmark.” The boss examine
the butter like a finger-print expert, and " '
minutes later delivered the goods to the fowl pc
gun. He never noticed a bunch of twigs fashion
like a fowl’s foot; they were passed into
kitchen fire.
The seat of N.S.W. Attorney-General
Wade may drop from under him this State e
tion. liis opponent, Hutton, is a good Hem
and a sturdy anti-borrower ; also he is a oil
and contractor in a large way, very popular
his employees, and so solid financially
the most reckless Anti-Sosh liar hesit ! \ te upforo
makes an awkward swallowing sound
denouncing him as a reckless leveller and
fiscator of the household furniture.
AT PEBBLY FALLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a sacred spot I know,
And there I love to be.
Where wand’ring- waters ebb and flow
And murmur mournfully.
I loiter there to ’scape the din
Of fevered street and mart
(Where men of trade and I are kin—
And \ et so far apart!).
Along its banks the willows hang,
While loud in breathless glee
The distant workshops grimly el ng
Their songs of industry.
Amongst its reeds the wild-fowl play,
(But on the Great South Hoad
The plodding bullocks wend their way
Beneath the teamster’s goad).
The ohrystals glitter in its sands
Like diamonds in the sun,
And down its path in rainbow bands
The polished pebbles run.
It is a place to linger near,
A spot for starlight vows
(And in the paddock I can hear
A small hoy chasing cows !).
The mirthful wagtails chirp and sing
Beside its grassy banks ;
A song of joy to me they bring—
And now a song of thanks.
It is a place where men might turn
To rest their wearied hearts
(Yet down the roadway I discern
The dust from grocers’ carts !).
Some day, a worn-out fugitive,
I’ll seek that sacred stream,
And on its banks I’ll truly live
The life of which I dream.
It is the dearest spot I know,
And oh ! I long to he
Where I might hear it ebb and flow
For all eternity.
X.B.W.
GILROONEY.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy assists
Nature. Being purely vegetable, free from all
narcotics, it fulfils the requirements of a perfect
cough remedy. It is soothing and healing. Ic
not only checks the cough or cold, but assists
Nature in throwing from the system the cause of
same, and helps bring about a condition that
renders a second attack less dangerous. It tones
up the nnfcous membrane, enabling it to withstand
exposure. Its power to control congestion and
inflammation puts it in a different list from all
other cough medicines. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy loosens the cough, relieves the lung, and
makes expectoration easy.*
Man wants but little here below
When wintry winds commence to blow,
With sleet and rain and hail and snow,
Man wants but little here you know.
But that same little that he wants
Must make him always feel secure,
Tne wise man knows, so off he goes
To purchase Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
WE BUY DIAMONDS
We want to buy DIAMONDS, OPALS,
SAPPHIRES, RUBIES, or other of
the PRECIOUS STONES*
From Deceased Estates,
From those Wanting to Realise.
We only buy UNSET GEMS.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest .Jewellery House
in Sydney,
We Fay CASH for All Purchases, LARGE OR SMALL LOTS WE DESIRE.
If the Gems are in Settings we will take them out,
and return the S ttings, or buy them as Old Go
23 Hunter Street.


THE MAN WITH THE MUCK-RAKE.
.... A man who could look no way but downwards, with a muck-rake in his hand. There stood one over his head with a celestial crown in his hand, and proffered
it for his muck-rake, but the man did neither look up nor regard, but raked to himself the straws and small sticks and dust of the floor.— Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress.
Quoted apropos of the fact that Mr. G. M. Merivale, of Sydney Chamber of Commerce, lately suggested that Australia should give away over
500,000 square miles of its country to the British Government to be peopled by niggers, and assured bis hearers that this monstrous treason to
Australia would pan out quite well in the way Of “trade. ,"


PERSONAL
ITEMS
Darnley Naylor, professor of classics in
Adelaide University, and lately of Melbourne,
got off a pun at the annual ’Varsity dinner, in the
presence of Premier Price. It is a great thing, he
said, when Governments support education.
“ The finances of Melbourne University were in a
crooked condition, but Bent came along and put
them straight; and Bent is a pearl beyond Price.”
One of the celebrities of Adelaide has
come down off his pedestal suddenly, George
Booker, who had been Superintendent of Fire
Brigades for 20 years, having resigned at the
“request” of the Metropolitan Board. Booker,
who had a naval career behind him, was one of
the heaviest weights and most popular characters
in the city, and his sudden eclipse is generally
regretted.
Dr. Robert Rygate, whose diploma is
dated 1850, and who resided at Wellington
(N.S.W.) for over a generation, died recently in
Marriokville, aged 80 years. He came out in
charge of immigrants in 1853, and settled at
Hartley; eleven years afterwards he moved fur-
ther out, to Wellington. He was returning
officer, coroner, and Pooh-Bah generally at the
Macquarie town.
Alfred Deakin seems to be regaining his
health. His handwriting shows its old fluent
firmness, and his face again hath a cheerful look.
Most politicians—even on his side of the House —
will be genuinely glad. It’s rather a custom in
politics to hawk round the bear’s skin long before
Bruin is dead ; but Deakin is such a pleasant bear
—all hug and no claws—that hardly anyone wishes
for his political death.
The usual mysterious personal from the
Barrier Miner (Broken Hill)
I^OTICE.— TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.—My
1 ’ Father was not the John O’Neill whose mother
kept the hotel in Armstrong-street, Ballarat, but the
other John.
THOMAS JOSEPH O’NEILL.
July 23, 1907.
Which John?
Sarah Maclnnes (Scotch) —or is it Sarah
MeGuinness (Irish)? —who confessed to 119 con-
victions for drunkenness, lately got a prize of two
months for smashing a two-gallon jar of rum at
the Quarrvman’s Arms, Pyrmont (N.S.W.). The
Cold Tea party, in its next statistics, will doubt-
less put forward this single offender as 120 drunks.
Canon Boyce recently said that last year there
were 20,000 con victions for drunkenness in N. S.
Wales (or was it Sydney only ?). Just one week
before he published that, one individual was pre-
sented at the Central Police Court for his 160th
jag. The Canon, unintentionally no doubt, leads
people to believe that he is talking of 20,000 sepa-
rate or individual drunks. Will some member
move for a return of the number of separate
drunks in N.S.W. or any other State? It should
be interesting. In S. A., for instance, most of the
State’s bad repute for beer rests on the sorrowful
fact that Sarah Francisco, however good her in-
tentions, can’t keep her face out of a pint pot for
more than half a day at a time, and once her
countenance gets into a pint pot it remains there.
BETTER JUMP NOW, SWINBURNE!
The Lord preserve us from coming under the Common-
wealth !—Vie. State Minister Swinburne.
“ Oby ” : Baronet Meredyth, the one-time
Hobart cabby, whose death was recently reported,
travelled steerage to Ireland with his wife to
enter into the estate which he has now quitted on
short notice. While he drove a cab in Hobart his
son drove a car in the same place. That son now
succeeds. The Irish estate is worth only £4OO a
year on paper and less in cash. The deceased
cabman left Ireland, when a boy, after trying to
blow up his schoolmaster by placing gunpowder
in his boots. His son Charles is now 51 years of
age. The Irish estate is named “Madeleen,” and
is in County Kildare.
The Rev. William
George Lawes, D.D.,
F.R.G.S., who died at
Waverley (Sydney), the
other day, spent 47 of
the 63 years of his life
“ missioning ” to the
heathen in his sunny,
southern isle. In 1860
Dr. Lawes was appointed
by the London Mission-
ary Society first resident
missionary in the island
of Niue, where he imme-
diately established a new
local industry, and be-
gan turning the raw
savage into the finished
native parson. Also he
commenced to translate
the New Testament into
the vernacular, and pub-
lished a version of the
Psalms in 1869. In ’7l
he and his wife moved
to Papua, where, in 1884,
he helped to plant a
boundary peg of the Em-
pire a little farther out
by translating to the
natives the address
wherein Commodore
Erskine declared a bit of
the country British terri-
tory. In 1891 he pub-
lished, as the result of 15
years’ solid work, a
translation of the New
Testament in the Motu
language, and, later on,
a Motu grammar, dic-
tionary, hymn-book, etc.
In 1894 he was appointed
first Principal of the
Vatorata Training Col-
lege, and held the posi-
tion until he retired from
service in 1906. And as
the result of it all, black
brother is an almost in-
visible shade cleaner, and
has got a hazy fragment
of theology resting on
his mind ready to slide
off as soon as he gets
away from mission influ-
ences. Black brother is spiritu-
ally elevated only with a dead lift. Heisn’televated
very high even with the deadest of lifts. And if the
lifter lets go for even a minute to sand his hands
and get a better grip of his convert, down goes
black brother.
The new S.A. Senator, J. V. O'Loghlin,
is a military man. with the rank of major in the
10th Infantry. His principal feature as a sojer
is an utter disregard for dress ; his combination
uniform is usually badly worn, his buttons always
rusty, and his chin rarely shaven. He commands
a company of wild Irishmen, most of whom
reflect their leader’s characteristics what time
they disregard his orders.
The other day, at a big Sydney sales-
room, an assurance policy for £9BO on the life of a
frisky statesman with bold .blue eyes and a
beautiful brogue, came under the hammer.
Though the loquacious gent with the tall-hatted
imagination dwelt lovingly on the “natural-
order-of-things,” etc., not a bid was forthcoming.
The credulous Australian does not mind putting
a pound or two into Tatt.’s, but nobody was game
to bet that Dan O’Connor isn’t perennial.
The artful, smooth-faced Pollock of the
N.S.W. Justice Department has scored
another triumph. He first came to the
front when the late Jack Want was
Attorney-General, and everybody pro-
phesied that when Want left office all
that would be left of Pollock would
be a crushed hat and a broken umbrella
on the pavement in front of the office
to show where he and his properties
struck it. Then Wise became A.-G.,
and, 10, the gentle Pollock made himself
very useful to Wise, and Wise made
him Solicitor-General, at which there
were more bitter howls. “But,” said
the wiseacres, “wait, wait! When
Wise goes you’ll see Pollock’s skull re-'
bound off the pavement.” Wise went,,
and very shortly afterwards Wade be-
came A.-G. (all the names of Attorneys-
General seem to begin with “W”),
and Wade was the man who had howled
most bitterly against Pollock (he
generally howled by deputy, but it was
his howl nathless). Now Wade makes
Pollock an acting District Court Judge.
There must be some strange artfulness
about Pollock.
The Bulletin is asked to mention
that the Hampton Slatyer whom it sym-
pathised with the other day over a libel
suit isn’t C. H. Slatyer, the Sydney
architect; or else the O. H. Slatyer
whom it sympathised with isn’t Hampton
—J r ' ■ - t vw
Slatyer. Anyhow neither of them is the other.
Curious how the aborigine’s first and last
thought is always his stomach. At Quiriadi
(N.S.W.), the quarter-caste assassin Tofft, while
still hot from slaughtering his sweetheart, met
some friends and informed them that “after he
had had a feed ” he meant to do for the girl’s
father and then kill himself. It was suggestive
of Nero burning an early Christian after lunch.
Tofft was captured simply because of victuals.
The police didn’t chase him in any serious spirit.
They sat down near his food supply, and presently
a fat, well-fed assassin, slinking back for more cold
beef, walked into the long arm of the law.
One Abraham Dixon died recently at
Leatherhead (England) with the fear of Socialistic
legislation in his soul and visions of ruin floating
before his eyes. Abraham of Leatherhead left
£102,813, and his will directed that no invest-
ments were to be made in Maoriland owing to the
“ trend of legislation ” in that country. So that
State will have to struggle along without paying
any interest to the trustees of leather-headed
Abraham, but as the profits of its principal bank
last year were three times as much as the whole
of Abraham’s pile, it probably won’t notice the
difference.
A PUZZLE.
FAT: “ Blessed if I can see where all these
locked-up lands are !”
“It took six Judges to try Crick,” yelled
a Surry Hills elector. “ A single Judge or two
could squelch any other man in the country. If
Crick cared to fight his best, they’d have to
borrow Judges from Melbourne and Brisbane to
help them. Vote for Crick ! ” Crick has claimed
the attention of the second biggest Bench in
N.S.W. legal history. In 1893 seven Judges sat
on some side issue of the question about an accused
giving evidence on his own behalf, and the Seven
Sleepers of Ephesus and their 200-years-old dog
didn’t look wiser than that famous Bench.
A Judge and a high legal official in a
certain State have long been providing the public
with a leisurely and expensive comedy.
Years ago they started about level in the
whisky competition, but the official began to
find snakes in his office before he had gone
once round the course, and in terror he
swore off. His Honor kept going, while the
official marvelled austerely at such lack of
judgment and self-control. His legal judg-
ment, curiously enough, wasn’t impaired.
But at the six-furlong post the Judge con-
fessed himself beaten ; he began to see rep-
tiles in Court, and in his alarm he also gave
up the contest with whisky. And almost
the first thing he saw when the bleari-
ness had got out of his eye was that his old
pal in riot, the long-sober legal official, had
started drinking again, and started hard.
Now people are wondering which of the
pair will meet his Whiskyloo first. Even
now the betting is 5 to 4 that the official
will straighten up in time to attend the
relapsed Judge’s funeral.
Some friends of the late Frank Myers
have expressed a wish that a memorial should
be raised by the writers of Australia over his
grave on Mount Kosciusko. Subscriptions
(which must not exceed £1 Is.) will be thank-
fully received and acknowledged by the
editor of The Lone Hand at this office.
About a notable lady:—
One of the oldest identities of N.S.W. passed away on
August 8, at her residence, Rialto Terrace, Darlinghurst.
This was Mrs. Catherine Crummer, relict of Major James
Henry Crummer, of the 28th Regiment, who came with
the corps to Sydney in 1835. In earlier life Major
Crummer had served with his regiment at many engage-
ments, ending with Waterloo, where he was in the famous
square formed by the 28th Regiment. The deceased lady
was a Greek by birth, and was called Catarina Plesos
when she met the Major. She was then one of 100,000
Greek refugees under British protection on the island of
Calamos. In 1825, when only 16 years of age, she mar-
ried the Major at the house of the High Commissioner at
Corfu. In 1840 Major Crummer retired from the army,
and became police magistrate at Port Macquarie, where
he died in 1867. There was a family of 11, of which
number two remain—one daughter, and a son in the
Lands. The son is now in his 66th year.' Mrs. Crummer
passed out at the age of 98. She had been in N. S. Wales
72 years. It is recorded of her that she repeatedly met
the poet Byron at her uncle’s house, during his last visit
to Greece in 1824—the visit that ended with his death in
the besieged town of Missolonghi.
Miss Rose Scott, of Sydney, has been
writing to the S. M. Herald about “the proudest
moment of my life ” :
But I do remember a proud moment in my public life,
and it was when I spoke against the first Federal Con-
vention Bill at the Protestant Hall When I finished
my address the masses of people in the body of the hall
and the galleries rose to their feet, waving handker-
chiefs and hats enthusiastically, and I felt, “They feel as
I feel; I, too, have helped to save my country. They see
even as I see—the fetters glittering beneath the flowers of
sentiment and false prophecy.” And when the Bill was
beaten at the Referendum, and I received a letter from
the Colonists’ Anti-Convention Bill League, dated June
7, 1898, my proud moment was confirmed—for it con-
veyed to me the president’s and committee’s “ high ap-
preciation of the services rendered by you to the
cause.” ... Alas ! proud momenta are often the saddest
to look back upon. The fetters were accepted, after all,
and what was the freest country in the world is now
hampered in all directions—and has no power over most
of the people who rule her. But, like Jerusalem, “ They
would not.”
So it seems that even the Anti-Australian party
of misrule and dissension had its proud moments,
just as Jeff Davis had his when he thought he
had wrecked the United States. And, like Jeff
Davis, they saw their glory fade, and the cause of
misrule went up a tree.
Sydney Telegraph allows a corresn ,
dent to complain bitterly of the decision inffi’
shearers’ case (which, he alleges, tends u .
out the N S W. pastoralist) as coming from"“J
Victorian Judge.” Well, Justice O’Connor tl,
Judge in question, was born in NSW
sw rAV tir-Z' V"-™'
N.S.W. to the Senate, Md' l.TtffK, 7
become a Judge of the Australian Court s,L!'
such a record of blameless New South Waksi ’
should save him from the howl of the Tiu: »
and its dingo following. -UUgbaph
“ L.” from the Victorian press gallery :
Easily the dreariest person in the Victorian
is M’Outcheon, the printer-man who “ has ideas ’• «!!!!![
finance, and thinks himself fitted for the bill./
Treasurer. M’Cutcheon formerly sat solidly b-L"
Bent, and was confident that at the first shuffle of ,
folios he would become at least an honorary Mi.. !
But Bent took in his friend Boyd, from the oonie tli
M Cutcheon sits in a corner, as far away from the Mi,
try as possible and from this position bleats. i„ u
Scotch voice, Toryisms which send the Assembly toll ..!
He is about the last representative of the hide-bom i
Conservatism which Irvine made triumphant in Viet
for a year or two. The rest of the Tories who whom,., 1
behind Irvine have either disappeared, or have become J,
ashamed of themselves that they trv to foitret the hri!.
nightmare. While Irvine is trying ids hardest to i» n U
a position for himself in Federal politics, the State Tarliu
mcnt which he used to flog into reaction never mention,
him, unless when some Labor member happens to f,.,.| ii
an abusive mood. The most decent attitude his old a*,
ciates can adopt is that of a shamed silence. All excent
the weary, dreary M’Cutcheon. He still names | rv l ,r
sometimes, failing to see that everybody else has a hone
dog look of misery at the name.
The fact that a man with the remains of a
murdered woman about him in a trunk has been
arrested at Marseilles (France) has indirectly
advertised the fact that a British baronet dwells
in a four-roomed house at Gladstone (S.A.)and
toils for a living on the Croweater railway system.
The man who had the deceased in a trunk called
himself “Vere Goold.” Inquiry revealed that,
whether this person was Vere Goold or not, there
really is an individual of that name, and that lie
is the younger brother of Baronet Goold, of the
S.A. railway system. Then the reporters ran hot
foot to the baronet’s humble domicile to get his
unbiassed opinion of bis brother, regarded as a
man who was likely to be carrying a dead body
about with him in a box. The position was,
doubtless, an awkward one, but the Archimedean
lever seems to have put its questions with tactand
consideration, and nothing is mentioned about
“Ferocious Assault on a Reporter.”
“Bel. Binks” sends a word of explana-
tion :
Chiefly with a view to being paid for this par., but
incidentally to shed true light on a recent refraction, let
me say that that Bulletin par. about tinned-meat
ptomaines is misleading when it leaves the inference that
Chief Justice Stout, of Maoriland, found his recent
illness in a meat tin. Robert Stout hasn’t tasted meat
for five years ; beef, beer and bad language are bis three
aversions Nevertheless, he looks long upon the Gorgon-
zola, and he neglected to medically inspect a recent
sample, consequently he and the cheese lay for some
time at death’s door, and but for the fact that the cheese
died first, the Chief wouldn’t have lived. At the end of
July, after two months’ severe illness, Stout had just
recuperated, and it seemed like old times to once more
see him on the bench, expounding law to lawyers, land
values to land agents, and native customs to dark-
skinned litigants. Nowadays Stout’s diet is wholly
turnips, toast and tea ; but it is said that he has let to
bis neighbor, the rabbi, a contract to kill cheese for him
what time the Hebrew makes kosher meat for his con-
gregation.
AN ANCIENT NEW-FANGLED
EXPERIMENT.
INVENTOR OF FIRE : "See, I've made a wans
I did it with two sticks!”
FAT CONSERVATIVE: “ Yes, yes! Rut do [?]
think the time was ripe for it ? Doesn't
partake of the nature of hasty and [?]
sidered legislation? ”
A Melbourne firm of solicitors wn
say that Judge Quinlan, of Victoria, a
in a recent “ Melbourne Chatter flourish-
died two decades ago, is still alive and
ing in England, or was when the last rn
The Bulletin congratulates him. it
itself and wishes everybody else was. _
The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Carda, Porto, Portugal
A SERIAL STORY-
an<!
100 GUINEAS OFFERED.
The Lone Hand wants a Serial Sto‘j j ta ble
offers £lO5 for the serial rights onhj o a
novel (preferably about 70,000 words).
quently The Lone Hand decides to P u ’
story in book form, 50 per cent, of t e j 1 ®
will go to the author; failing book pu > IC
The Lone Hand, copyright will rever
author. . •
No serial will be considered unless i j, r igbt
ful in tone, strongly interesting in “ y^l; 0 n > u
in treatment, and suitable for pu > 1 \V
monthly parts of 5000 to 7000 woi s vn0 p-' J 5
gloom wanted. Authors should submi
of their plot with the MS.
214 George-sto °b • .


I
ifT
n
n
1'
r;
-v; % 1H*„ ; ;
V- -v* 'j' '■ ’’ t“ . '■' * '
MB
MKs
k.
;
• • •
■■
• t
■ -
'
m
mm
When a gentleman arsks me for th’ best tobaccer, I know’e
means 'VICE-REGAL Smoking Mixture’!”


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Bank of Maokilano :
Net To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1897 .. £21,461 5 p.c. = £12,500 £8,961 £33,657
1898 .. 25,538 6 „ „ 15,000 10,538 44,195
1899 .. 38,466 7 „ „ 17,500 20,966 65,161
1900 .. 42,348 8 „ „ 20,000 22,348 87,5u9
1901 .. 55,785 10 „ „ 25,000 30,785 118,2.4
1902 .. 64,933 10 „ „ 25,000 39,933 158,227
1903 .. 54,533 10 ~ „ 25,000 29,533 187,760
1904 .. 60,643 J 2 „ „ 30,000 30,643 218,403
1905 .. 49,907 12 „ „ 30,000 19,907 238,310
1906 .. 50,857 12 „ „ 30,000 20,857 259,167
Premiums on new share issue .. 60,000 309,167
1907 .. 64,901 12 „ „ 38,750 26,161 335,318
That is a magnificent result; and, considering only the
present, it is better than it looks, because £15,000 has
been provided out of profits to write down premises
(which is another way of saying that the new premises at
Wellington have been paid for out of the year’s profits),
and bonuses have been paid to the staff. The capital
was for many years £250,000 ; it has now been increased
to £375,000, by the issue of 50,000 new shares, paid to
£2 los., at a premium of £l. On these new shares, then,
the actual return is £8 11s. sd. per cent., so long as a 12
per cent, dividend is paid. Like the old shares, the new
ones carry a liability of £5 each; and there is provision
for the issue of another 80,000 shares. In view of the
growth of debt to the public, the increase of capital was
very prudent. Ten years ago the bank owed the public
£2,636,042 ; it now owes £4,461,794 ; and, granted that
the reserves have increased rapidly, still the public was
entitled to more protection (for the shareholders’capital
is the depositors’guarantee fund). Even now the bank
has the use of £6 ss. of the public’s money for every £1
of its own : the other way of saying the same thing is
that the shareholder has to protect £6 6s. of the public’s
money with every £1 of his own.
And this shows some further features:—
1906. 1907.
Notes in circulation £268,872 £283,628 Inc., £14,756
Bills in circulation, etc. 489,908 496,767 Inc., 6,859
Deposits .. .. 3,440,456 3,681,399 Inc., 240,943
Liquid assets .. 1,148,623 1,216,764 Inc., 68,131
Advances .. .. 3,532,973 3,914,499 Inc., 381,526
Premises, etc. .. 72,099 70,609 Dec., 1,490
Thus of the £4,461,794 of the public’s money’, £1,216,754,
or only 27 per cent., is represented by liquid assets—a
smaller proportion than any big bank in Australia
deems it safe to maintain. This means that a larger
proportion is out in advances, where most of the risk
lies. Of course, in those circumstances, the profits are
large; even after deducting the £15,000 spent on build-
ings, the return is at the rate of £l4 os. lod. per cent, on
capital and reserves as at the beginning of the year. But
with that high return, thus accomplished, there is a large
risk—and a risk that seems larger than usual when it is
remembered that the principal business is carried on in a
country where values must necessarily be inflated, owing
to the excessive borrowings of the Government. Those
borrowings must end some time ; and when they do, and
the influx of money or money’s worth stops, and instead
of anything coming in only the interest will be going
out, things will get down to bedrock, and it wdl be seen
that what looked like prosperity was to a considerable
extent boom and froth. The bank may, certainly, be
taking care to secure large margins; in that case it may
not lose much capital. But even at the best the profits
will sag.
* * * «
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria :
Losses on
Property, etc.,
Loss on less Profit on Total
Business. Debentures. Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1902 .. £1217 £3,426 £4,643 £4,814
Profit.
June, 1903 .. 60 700 640 6,454
Dec., 1903 .. - 277 6,190 5,913 11,367
June, 1904 .. 960 3,890 2,930 14,297
Dec., 19U4 .. 275 10,278 10,003 24,300
June, 1905 .. 1271 7,313 6,042 30,342
Dec., 1905 .. 1423 2,061 638 30,980
June, 1906 .. 1644 5,713 4,069 35,049
Dec., 1906 .. 1610 3,717 2,107 37,156
Assets written down, £130,456; special ex-
penses written off, £782 ; less forfeited
capital, £4857 163,537
June, 1907 .. 184 2,694 2,510 166,047
From which it will be gathered that there has been a
cleaning up—or part of a cleaning up ; the thing won’t be
completed till the deficit has been wiped out by the re-
duction of capital; and already steps have been taken to
do that. As to the foregoing, it is perhaps necessary to
explain that the £782 special expenses written off (it
seemed hardly fair to charge them direct against the
half-year) was mostly money spent on renewing the
agreement with debenture-holders. There is another
£2340 which is a doubtful asset; it is the balance of a
paper asset representing discount on calls paid in ad-
vance. The amount is being wiped off by instalments.
It has been a horrible nightmare. In 1896 there
was a debenture debt of £900,000 and £20,250 due for
interest. The capital was supposed to be then £250,000 ;
but as there was a trading loss at the rate of
about £20,000 a year, the real capital was obviously
not worth mentioning. Still the debenture-holders
offered the shareholders a chance to benefit by the
expected recovery, provided they got in £200,000’ more
capital. Then began the struggle to get it in. Asshares
were forfeited, the calls on those that were still alive had
to be made heavier. Six months ago 152,434 of the origi-
nal 260,000 shares were alive ; that number has now been
reduced to 147,526. And of the £346,685 called up on the
live shares, only £300,535 has been actually paid. The
shares, nominally. £3 175., are £2 paid (those, at least,
that are not in arrears); and £1 3s. per share will have to
be written off the shares to wipe out the deficit. That,
by a coincidence, was what was written off in 1900, when
a previous valuation was made, and the shares were
reduced from £5 to £3 17s.
The present position compares in this way
with what the balance sheets formerly said was the
position:—
June, June, Dec., June,
1902. 1906. 1906. 1907.
Capital .. £249,197 £275,431 £275,540 £300,535
Debentures.. 612,067 496,408 479,604 461,035
Other debts 1,859 1,232 3,435 1,519
Advances .. 408,297 383,575 369,506 325,696
Properties .. 411,644 284,106 278,162 140,818
Cash, etc. .. 43,010 70,341 74,054 128,188
The gross income last half-year was £12,225 ; in the
previous six months it was £12,811. Making an allowance
for the capital that has recently been got in, the assets,
as written down, show a shade over 4 per cent, gross all
round. That doesn’t look a very thorough cleaning-up ;
but then it has to be remembered that many of the assets
are vacant lands which bring in nothing. The manage-
ment expenses are very moderate indeed ; but even so,
as the assets earn only a shade over 4 per cent., and as
the debentures carry 3£ per cent., there can be mighty
little left for shareholders. (At least, they have carried
3J per cent, hitherto ; the report doesn’t mention whether
the rate has been altered by the new agreement, but
presumably it hasn’t.) The revaluation, of course, won’t
affect the business profits one way or the other; and
until extra expenses arrived this half-year, these profits
have been lately about £l5OO a half-year. That isn’t large
enough to hold out any reasonable hope of dividends for
many a day ; but it will be something to stand between
the shareholders and more of those calls that must have
been heart-breaking.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. (N.S.W.):
Bonus Added Capital
to to and
Net Policy- Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, holders. Dividends. serves, serves.
1898 .. £11,714 £4384 16| p.c. =£4384 £2946 £72,109
June,
1899 .. 4,321 2149 16$ „ „ 2149 23 72,132
1900.. 11,932 4578 17$ „ „ 4578 2776 74,908
1901 .. 12,430 4818 16 „ „ 4818 2794 77,702
1902 .. 13,229 5543 18$ „ 5543 2143 79,845
1903 .. 12,505 5869 19J ~ „ 5869 1067 80,912
1904 .. 16,498 6067 16 „ „ 6067 4364 85,276
1905 .. 14,518 6247 16$ „ „ 6247 2024 87,300
1906 .. 15,048 6536 14$ „ „ 6536 1976 89,276
1907 .. 18,753 6707 14j „ „ 6707 5339 94,615
That is one way r of looking at the matter. But there is
another. The bulk of the paid-up capital of £45,000 con-
sists of capitalised profit, and in the foregoing this has
been treated as capital, along with the small amount
actually paid up by shareholders. In the past 10 years
£26,250 of profits have been capitalised in this way. The
co. pays particular attention to a business which is
highly profitable, but necessarily limited ; it specialises
in suburban risks and in high-class city and country
“lines.” The result of this close selection is alow loss
rate, but a high expense rate :
Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1897 .. £33,112 £8,729 £14,093 26'4 p.c. 42’6 p.c.
1900 .. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24‘4 „ 497 „
1905 .. 60,534 12,051 26,961 23’8 „ 53’3 „
1906 .. 63,667 15,337 26,416 28’6 „ 49’2 „
1907 .. 66,755 13,786 27,376 24’3 „ 48’2 „
The return to the shareholders is no doubt remarkably
good ; obviously, however, it wouldn’t be practicable for
many cos. to work on the same lines. Also, so far as
this co. is concerned, though it never has a really bad
year, it is almost impossible for it to have a gorgeously
good one—the limitation of business and the high ex-
pense rate prevent that. The mean of the co.’s invest-
ments for the year was £104,386; on that the interest
and rents (£3163) showed almost an exact 3 per cent. A
good slice—exact size unknown—of the assets consists of
city premises ; and the extremely low return suggests
that either there is a very poor revenue from that, or the
co. does not charge itself much for rent. If the latter
is the case, then the real expenses are heavier than is
shown. Like most other insurance cos. doing business in
Australia, this one is now getting authority to run
accident insurance as a side-line. A few years ago there
was a lot of money in it; but much of the gilt is off the
gingerbread now. Still gingerbread isn’t to be despised
even if it isn’t painted the color of Flossie’s hair.
* • * *
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
Co. (Melbourne); —
Funds
(apart
Ex- from
June, Income. Claims, penses. Dividends, etc. Capital).
1897. .£17,244 £7,443 £2024 12$ p.c. =£5,000 £321,833
1898.. 15,899 12,132 22L9 12$ „ „ 5,000 318,381
1899.. 15,298 11,244 1615 15 „ „ 6,000 314,820
1900.. 14,062 8,735 1594 25 „ ~ 10,000 308,553
1901.. 14,050 11,506 1484 25 „ ~ 10,000 299,613
1902.. 13,068 8,179 1419 25 „ ~ 10,000 292,083
1903.. 12,434 10,146 1535 25 „ ~10,000 1
Written off securities, £20,000 j
1904.. 11,976 9,776 1426 25 ~ ~10,000/
Written off securities, £lO,OOO f 243,610
1905.. 11,587 14,294 1330 25 „ ~10,000 229,573
1906.. 12,270 13,193 1540 25 „ ~10,000 217,110
1907.. 11,468 9,525 1281 25 „ ~ 10,000 207,772
This co. is taking no new business ; it collects renewal
premiums on what remain of tiie policies that it issued
years ago, and nowadays it pays out about four or
five times as much by way of claims as it receives
in premiums. Its paid-up capital is £40,000; in the
past eight years it has paid just twice that much in
dividends. Twelve months ago it announced, in a burst
of unusual candor, that “ the total liability on all
policies” was £128,160 ; but whether that was the total
present value of liabilities, or the total face value with
bonuses added, wasn’t clear. In any case this proprieiary
life-office is on a marvellously good wicket, for at that
time it had £217,110 of funds, apart from its own capital.
Of course, its expense rate, reckoned on the basis of
income, is low —£11 3s. sd. per cent. It doesn’t cost much
to run an insurance office when new’ business doesn’t have
to be pursued. This co.’s low expense rate gives point to
a frequent Bulletin remark that to really tell whether an
insurance office’s expense rate is low or high the propor-
tion of new business has to be taken into account. Also
the same low rate gives point to another frequent remark
that it won’t be long before it will be up to the Australian
Government to establish a Federal Life Assurance Depart-
ment. If it opened it, and didn’t spend vast sums
hustling for new business, but just kept it open and noti-
fied Australia to that effect, its expense rate would be
probably about 7 p.r cent, (this dwindled co. can still
work at It per cent., though it has to look after bloated
investments); and the difference between 7 per cent, and
the mutual and proprietary office’s 14 to 20 per cent,
would so affect the bonuses that the Federal office would
soon command a business, if Australia is half as thrifty as
it is alleged to be.
* * * *
The Victoria Insurance Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1897 ..£lB,OlO 36 per cent. =£17,974 £36 £80,174
Loss.
1898 .. 23,336 Nil - I
Assets written down / 0D < Sc>B
Profits.
1899 .. 14,597 9 per cent. = 4,494 10,103 46,941
1900 .. 19,046 22$ „ „ 11,234 7,812 54,753
1901 .. 17,374 27 „ „ 13,481 3,893 58,646
1902 .. 23,923 27 „ „ 13,481 10,442 69,088
1903 .. 28,195 36 „ „ 17,975 10,220 79,308
1904 .. 28,068 36 „ „ 17,975 10,093 89,401
1905 .. 27,571 36 „ „ 17,975 9,596 98,997
1906 .. 28,330 36 „ „ 17,975 10,355 109,352
1907 .. 22,762 36 „ „ 17,975 4,787 114,139
And here you find the explanation of the shrinkage in
profits for the past year :
Net Ex- Expense Loss
Premiums, penses. Losses. Rate. Rate.
1900 .. £82,217 £19,224 £46,406 23’4 p.c. 56’4 p c
1905.. 82,276 22,544 36,710 27’4 „ 44’6
1906.. 83,535 23,589 36,782 28’2 „ 44 0
1907 .. 87,611 22,730 47,391 25’9 „ 54T „
The expenses have been brought down, but the loss rate
is unusually severe ; whether that is cause and effect, or
whether the expense rate has been reduced on account of
a change in the class of business taken, doesn’t transpire.
The lay-by, which was never much to boast of—for many
years past, at any rate—is now very poor. The co. has a
great affection for dividends, and the dividend is kept
where it was in spite of the tumble in profits. Partly as
a result, no doubt, of the big dividends paid, the
progress of the co., so far as increase of premiums
goes, has been very poor; in the past seven
years, which have seen a great increase in Aus-
tralia’s insurable property, this co. has not put on
£5500 of premiums. Business naturally flow’s towards
the co. which offers rapidly increasing protection to the
insurer, rather than towards the co. which fattens the
shareholder; the same money can’t do both things, as
the insurer sees. About half the co.’s investments are
represented by fixed deposits; another £42,551 is real
estate. On the lot, the return is about 3$ per cent.
which suggests that the return from the real estate is
low. That may mean over-valuation, or it may mean
that the co. doesn’t charge itself with a high rent for that
portion of the premises which it occupies itself.
The Victoria General Insurance and Guar-
antee Co. (Melbourne)
T ~ _ . Added to Be-
June) Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897.. £3689 20 per cent. = £4OOO £17.505
Loss.
1898 .. 5011 10 „ ~ 2000 10 494
Profits.
1899 .. 4511 15 „ „ 3000 £l5ll 12,005
1900 .. 3233 20 „ „ 4000 1] 238
1901 .. 4741 20 ~ „ 4000 741 1F979
1902 .. 4301 20 ~ „ 4000 301 12 280
1903 .. 3957 20 „ „ 4000 12 237
1904 .. 3736 20 ~ ~ 4000 11,973
19 5.. 3334 15 „ ~ 3000 334 12’,307
1906 .. 3534 15 ~ ~ 3000 534 12,841
1907 .. 3845 15 ~ ~ 3000 845 13,686
This is the infant among the three “Victorias”—three
insurance cos. practically in the one office, and under the
one control, and with the one policy, in which biff
dividends are a leading plank. Actually, as is shown
above, the reserves are less now than they were 10 vears
ago. Apparently this co. deals in the odds and ends of
insurance, and it may be that for that purpose big re-
serves are not as essential as they are to a co. that deals
in fire risks exclusively. Still, the co. takes lire risks
with the rest, so some better progress in the matter of
reserves is called for. Progress (or otherwise) in other
respects is shown hereunder :
Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Kate. Kate.
1900.. £11,324 £2864 £6387 25'4 p.c. 56’4 p.c.
1905 .. 9,443 2973 4429 31 5 „ 40’9 „
1906.. 9,124 3103 3829 34'0 „ 41‘9 „
1907.. 9,007 2825 3556 31'3 „ 39'4 „
If the co. paid only half as much in dividends, and was
thus able to put aside three times as much for the better
protection of its clients, there probably wouldn’t be this
distressing fading-away of business. Possibly it is that
the co. is handicapped by its environment. The big con-
cern in the same office, and under the same control, and
largely owned by the same people, is an old proprietary
life-insurance office, which gave up the hustle for new
business many years ago, and is now sitting down
among its accumulated thousands waiting for the
last policy-holder to die; and meantime it has
its mind constantly centred on the tomb and worms and
things like that, though it tries to relieve the gloom by
paying an annual 25 per cent, dividend. In ordinary cir-
cumstances a 25 per cent. div. would cheer up an office ;
but with this office 25 per cent. divs. have become a
habit, and, as it doesn’t have to do anything at all to earn
them, it hardly wakes up out of its gloom to take them.
It will be a good thing for the two other Victorian Insur-
ance cos. when the Life patriarch pays up on the last
policy, and pockets all the balance of the funds, and passes
out itself. Then the other two may be rid of a bad
example, and may limit their dividend, and start to
hustle like live Australians.
■* * * *
C. E. Frazer, M.H.R., says his Fire Insurance
Bill isn’t as bad as The Buclktin described it (8 8/’O7).
“ Goods, wares and merchandise owned or held for the
purpose of trade or commerce are specifically excluded
from its operation. The Bill then necessarily applies to
structures and goods not held as above, the value of
which it is not difficult to ascertain, and which do not
seriously depreciate in a given time.” The removal of
goods and stock from the scope of the Bill undoubtedly
removes also one objection. Frazer, M.H.R., evidently
sees that he can’t apply his alleged principle ail
round. There remain, then, premises and furniture
as the two other mostly-insured things. Fur-
niture hardly differs from stock—one can be
shifted as easily as the other. Premises, therefore, alone
remain. And as to them the considerable objection is
that if the insurance co. is bound to pay up the full
amount of the policy in the event of total loss, it will
have to make frequent valuations to protect itself against
over-valuation. The fires attended to by the Sydney
Metropolitan Board run to an average of one a year for
every 2000 premises ; which means that for the sake of
the place that is burned, 1999 other valuations will
have to be made, and the cost of the 1999 valuations
will have to he added to the cost of the insurance.
Frazer says premises don’t rapidly depreciate. Proba-
bly not; but their value may, for that depends on
heaps of things besides the state of the bricks and mortar.
* * * «
Queensland Trustees, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1897.. £1077 3£ per cent. =£927 £l5O £553
1898 .. 1195 4 „ ~ 1060 135 688
1899 .. 2248 7 „ ~1856 392 1080
1900 .. 3359 8 „ „ 2121 1238 2318
1901 .. 2367 8 „ „ 2121 246 2564
1902 .. 3928 8 „ „ 2121 1807 4371
1903 .. 2546 8 „ „ 2121 425 4796
1904 .. 1576 6 „ ~ 1590 4782
1905 .. 2122 6 „ ~ 1590 532 5314
1906 .. 2171 6 „ ~ 1590 581 5895
1907 ~ 3060 8 „ ~ 2121 939 6834
The expenses include a 10 per cent, bonus to staff
(£326). The profits are erratic. This, however, is
mainly due to the fact that Queensland is very largely
a creature of the seasons; and property transactions
are larger and much more numerous when the seasons
are favorable. In only one previous year (1902) were the
co.’s profits larger—that is, before adding the officers’
bonus for the past year to the expenses—and in that year
large station properties were realised. Each trustee co.
has its own way of dealing with the commission (.usually
2£ per cent.) on the capital value of the estate ; this co.’s
custom seems to be to take credit for it as the properties
.are realised ; and there is a good deal to be said for that
plan. The trouble is this : The annual commission
(usually 2£ per cent, on the revenue) does not always pay
expenses of management; so that if the more profitable
and saleable assets are speedily realised, and the whole
commissions treated as profit, and disbursed,the trustee co.
is liable to be left with the unprofitable sediment, which
it may have to handle for years, possibly at an actual loss.
Or it may avoid a loss by cutting down the expense of
administration—which generally means not administer-
ing it as it should be administered. The proper treat-
ment of this corpus commission is, in fact, a problem.
Anyhow, this co.’s policy explains the variations in the
earnings ; so it will have to be remembered that in poor
seasons the profits will fall off very seriously. Some
other details: —
1897. 1902. 1906. 1907.
Revenue .. .. £3838 £9247 7,245 £8,989
Expenses .‘. .. 2761 5077 5,074 5,603
Profit on funds, p.c. 4/3/11 15/16/8 7/13,11 12/0/8
Trust estates .. 1,408,236 1,563,191
Expenses per cent.
of trusts .. 7/2£ 7/2
It is only during the last two years that the capital value
of the estates in hand has been divulged ; and the pro-
gress in the 12 months has been very satisfactory. The
expenses are pretty high. The earnings are, however,
high too. Deducting £l2BO as interest earned on invest-
ments, the balance of the revenue was at the rate of 9s.
lOd. per cent, on the capital value of the estates in hand.
But, as an average, the trustee co.’s charge is rather less
than that —it averages about 6s. 6d. percent., as far as one
can strike an average where conditions vary so much. In
this case, of course, the return has been swelled by the
larger-than-usual realisations for the year, which brought
in 2i per cent, on their total.
* » * ■*
Broken Hill Water Supply, Ltd.—mostly
Melbourne-owned ; from the time 13,500 new shares were
issued and £3379 premiums were added to reserves :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £14,116 15 p.c. = £15,000 £26,457
Dec., 1901 10,250 10 „ „ 10,000 £250 26,707
June, 1902 11,386 10 „ „ 10,000 1,386 28,093
Dec., 1902 13,200 10 „ „ 10,000 3,200 31,293
June, 1903 12,893 10 „ „ 10,000 2,893 34,186
Dec., 1903 1,421 5 „ „ 5,000 30,607
June, 1904 9,456 6 „ „ 5,000 4,456 35,063
Dec., 1904 12,080 10 „ „ 10,000 2,080 37,143
June, 1905 15,622 10 „ „ 10,000 6,622 42,765
Dec., 1905 16,197 10 „ „ 10,000 6,197 48,962
June, 1906 21,579 10 „ „ 10,000 11,579 60,541
£50,000 (one-fourth) of capital returned.
Dec., 1906 21,796 10 „ „ 10,000 11,796 72,337
Written off for depreciation, £37,698 .. 34,639
June, 1907 35,119 10 „ „ 7,500 27,619 62,258
Except that a paper asset has been included—“ Water
rights, Parliamentary bills, etc., £25,194” —the accounts
have always been admirably presented; nevertheless,
because of recent transactions, from the outside they look
a little involved. The co.’s rights expire in 1918, when the
whole concern passes over to the Government without
compensation. Therefore for some years past a “con-
tingency ” account has been accumulated ; and, out of
this, ss. per share was returned in October last. Now,
complementary to that, the undertaking has been written
down In the foregoing; table the paper asset*™*- .
have always been disregarded ; the eor.ow^ffilfr'' 44
and £37,698 besides-total, £62,892 Of r*n» BlhaioUl
doesn't affect the cash position ; it Is the wiT Um *
way of reducing the value of the assets to noth? „ f
fall to nothing—to nothing, that is, from the . . ft,lhe J r
of view. Also a formal sinking fund has Wn ’
and is now £40,000 in credit. In 11 years ''' ‘‘f’ 1 .
at a shade under 4 per cent., that will reach 4(n
there is another £90,000 to be provided, and £«£,' w
will do that. To pay 10 per cent, on lit , s,ar
capital and provide the necessary sinking fund
must make £21,650a year apart from int*?*., ■* 'i u-
past half-year it made £04,652 apart from ini,',',
position and outlook are good, then esmcrillJ’ ™*
present, apart from the sinking fund, the co l„
of about £20,000 of assets which Iv it '>
have to hand over-and that ought Jfie am ,?e, any ® 1
to provide for necessary renewals during the next if
years. Of course, the co. can't expect to go o d oi i *
what it has done during the half-year. It niav hi '
competition ; it certainly won’t always have smh
prosperous Broken Hill to cater for. But there is aV
margin between the required £21,660 a year and n,!
actual £34,652 of last half-year. Moreover,*if the co
another 12 months like the past six months, and cai'i am
aside an extra £40,000, then for the other 10 veuri
would only have to provide £4150 a year in order to ...
square. The sinking fund investments, by the wav n,
all m public stocks or bank deposits.
Walkers, Ltd., engine-builders, etc. (Man.
borough, Q.), from the time when £OO2O forfeited cami.i
was written off assets : F
Dividends and Written it,..
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. off.
1897.. £922 Ml _
(£4O forfeited capitul written off assets.)
1898.. 4702 5 per cent. =£2044 £2500 fin?*
1899.. 2003 5 „ ~ 3344
1900 .. 4126 5 „ „ 3344 - 6614
1901.. 6113 5 „ „ 3303 _ B’2u 8 ’ 2 u
1902 .. 1629 Nil 2000 7M
1903.. 1485 Nil y’. 17s
1904 .. 1623 Nil - lo’flui
1905.. 1428 Nil 4600 7 729
1906 .. 2182 Nil 6600 8 411
1907 .. 2593 Nil 2500 ;i’,504
Under the (Queensland State tariff the duty on mr.-.t,
engines and machinery was 26 per cent. That was
barely sufficient for the purpose, as the very moderate
dividends shown prior to 1902 proves, liut in that
year the effect of the Federal tariff began to show
itself. The Protection was cut down to 124 percent.,
witli page after page of exemptions. Since that date the
people who put their capital into the business have not
had a penny by way of return. A small profit has, it is
true, been shown, but not sufficient to cover wear and
tear on machinery and depreciation in value of patterns,
etc. No doubt larger amounts should have been written
off previously ; in other words, even the 6 per cent,
dividends paid under the 25 per cent, tariff were only
paid at the expense of the machinery, which is another
way of saying that the dividends were partly paid out of
capital. The directors have been wise to face the situa-
tion, instead of paying small dividends by hiding their
losses temporarily. The result of the policy has been
that they have been able to get rid of a heavy liability ;
so that, if their plant won’t now earn much money,
they at least won’t have to pay interest on the
debentures, etc., with which some of the plant was
bought. This shows what lias been done :
1902. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Capital .. .. £64,227 £64,302 £64,302 £04,802
Debentures .. 21,150 15,863 10,575 Nil
Other debts .. 8,308 5,248 1,766 0,688
Freehold, plant,
etc 68,083 66,062 68,682 53,419
Stock, etc. .. 22,074 14,392 12,211 13,7,>2
Cash, etc. .. 14,071 11,110 12,302 10,343
The figures are as at the end of the year in each case,
before the year’s appropriations for wear and tear arc
effected. Tlius we get this for five years :
Freeholds, plant, etc., written down .. £14,004
Reduction of stock 8,292
Reduction of cash 3,728
New capital got in 76
Total £26,759
Which has been absorbed in this way :
Paying off debentures, etc £22,870
Reduction of reserves 3,5b9
Total £26,759
Put in another way, the co.’s debts have been reduced by
£22,870 in five years ;of which £92IL has been current
profit, and £8292 the proceeds of a reduction of stock.
What the employees have suffered from the decline in
the industry' due to the lowering tf the tariff is not
shown, as a working account is not published ; the office
ami general expenses have, however, come down from
£5610 in 1902 to £2925 in 1907, and the workshop expen-
diture has probably fallen still more. And it is mighty
little satisfaction to the Australian workmen who have
not been able to get the work that they used to have in
Walker’s foundry, to know that Australia has been so
prosperous during the last three years that it has paid
the foreigner for metals and machinery these increasing
amounts 1904, £7,186,18L ; 1905, £7,480,484; 190 b,
£9,143,861. Yet Queensland still sends down men like
Page to represent its workers, and Page doesn’t want
even a 124 P er cent. duty. True, Page got his living oy
drawing beer and not by moulding iron, and the Ureat
Australian Thirst doesn’t need any tariff stimulation.
« » •* »
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co.;
Written To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. off. serves. Deficit.
1897.. £10,016 10 p.c. = £7,500 £1250 £1266 £lO,
1598.. 11,531 10 „ „ 7,500 1250 2781 h™
1899.. 11,614 10 „ „ 8,438 1250 1926 5,441
1900.. 16,498 10 „ „ 11,250 1000 4248
1901.. 10,058 10 „ „ 11,250
1902.. 13,140 10 „ ~ 11,250 1890
’ Reserve*.
1903.. 13,499 10 „ „ 11,250 2249 l.Jjj*
1904.. 13,889 10 „ „ 11,250 2639
19u5.. 13,260 10 „ „ 11,250 2010 6,W
1906.. 14,187 10 „ „ 11,250 - 2937
lgoT.’. 6,718 10 „ „ 5,625 1° 93 10,4^
This co., at any rate, is frank, and shareholders an
investors therefore know where they are in con
with it. It keeps everything in its balance-sheet at - ,
and says so ; and the reserves are mainly a provisi
cover wear and tear and to provide for j , s Y-f or e
though presumably renewals have been called for . „ e
this, seeing that the co. is now 18 years old, 00
has yet been made upon the renewal fund ;so P* .
ably renewals have so far been paid for out of c
revenue. That makes both the stated profits an
reserves look better than they' would do otherwi >
obviously if all renewals had to be paid for ’om . m
stated profits, then the stated profits wouldn t - n
true profits—some of them would be capital usea H
the process of earning the rest. Here, however, -
as if renewals are being paid for and charged up aS
rent expenses. The co. has a paper item among
sets—£ls,ooo for “ Parliamentary rights ana
sions.” These haven’t any value in thems<elves, js
disregarded in the table above. The co. s prog
not marked. For instance : IIVI-
- 1002.
Plant, mains, etc .. .. £90,124 2*461
Gross revenue.. .. .. 12,688
So that, though all the undivided profit of the the
years, and a little more, has gone into the c ’
earnings are slightly less. Certainly, contra y hagn . t
general experience, the increased capital ouii i ngeS
been accompanied by an increase in working r
and general charges ; there has been a reducu >
♦ * *
Watson’s Bay and South Shore Febbt
(Sydney):— Re.
Apparent Written To • gefveSi
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. ser __ £l4O
1902 .. ' £llOO 1249
1903 ..£1564 6 p.c. =£464 2 015
1904 .. 1208 6„ „ 433 LL 2736
1905 .. 1154 6„ „ 433 '£ 4170
1906 .. 1867 6„ „ 433 3202
1907 ..863 6„ „ 483 £1398 . for , a»
Probably the real results are nothing like ’ nte Jj in
pointed out 12 months ago, the accounts are p &re ver y'
such a way, or such a variety of ways, Heoreciation
liable to say what they don’t mean. i F t hig co.’s
reserves cause most of the trouble, in _L _ D ] an ationi
reserve sprang up suddenly, and without ai y e w here
from £lB9O to £2790. There wasn t a woraw - anlon g
the money came from ; but as the extra *■ . co uldn t
the reserves, it had to be regarded as pr
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Sootch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’e English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Hioholson & Bons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.


have been anything else, unless it was that the property
was simply written up £9OO. Now, though it is alleged
that “depreciation, etc.,” has been provided for through
profit and loss direct, £'1398 drops out of the depreciation
reserve. If depreciation is provided for out of current
profit, where has the £1398 of accumulated profits (or
reserve) gone ? Previously gross receipts were set out,
with some details of expenditure on the other side. Not
even that is done this year ; what is alleged to be the
net profit is shown. This fact, however, remains : that
either the property was not written down sufficiently in
former years, or, if it was, then the depreciation this
year swallowed up more than the whole profits. The
balance-sheets show these items
1903. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Debts to public .. £3,239 £4,147 £7,930 £6,047
Steamer property.. 11,916 14,226 19,394 17,097
Steamer property is practically the only asset; the total
of other items is under £4lO. The comparison shows
this : though the steamer property is £2297 less than it
was in 1906, debt has only been reduced by £1283. Ap-
parently the explanation of this is that property was sold
for a good deal less than its book value (the Bald Rock
was disposed of, the directors say), or property was
written down out of profits and the money used to make
repairs or alterations. Anyway, the form of the accounts
is unsatisfactory. Of the debts to the public shown
above £6OOO is secured by debentures,
* • * *
Last week closed with forward selling of copper
at under £BO, tin at £172, and lead at £l9 17s. 6d. ; and
at last an idea begins to insinuate itself that, after all,
perhaps the recent prices were boom prices. It might be
just as well to reflect whethe* even now the pricis are
normal. Take the averages for 10 years prior to the
present boom :
Copper. Tin. Lead. Spelter.
1894 .. £4O 7 4 £6B 14 2 £9 11 6 £l5 9 2
1895 .. 42 19 7 6 3 7 1 10 1 2 5 14 12 2
1896 .. 46 18 1 59 9 11 11 6 11 16 11 10
1897 .. 49 2 7 61 8 0 12 8 4 17 9 10
1898 .. 51 16 7 71 4 1 13 1 10 20 8 9
1899 .. 73 13 9 132 8 7 1 5 1 6 24 17 2
1900.. 73 12 6 133 11 6 17 3 7 20 5 6
1901 .. 66 18 8 11s 12 6 12 14 1 17 0 7
1902 .. 52 11 5 120 1 4 6 11 5 3 18 1 0 11
1903.. 58 3 2 127 6 5 11 14 & 20 19 5
If 10 years previous to 1894 were taken, the results would
even less support the view that tl)e present are normal
prices. No doubt some conditions may have changed
during the past few years ; possibly the increased pro-
duction of gold has favored a general rise in prices. If
so, then cost of production has also been affected, so the
rise in the metal markets isn’t all extra profit to owners.
* * * *
Dividends amounting to £1,071,084 were paid
by the gold-mining cos. in the West for the expired seven
months of the current year, making a total to date of
£16,808,249. To this sum six cos. (five of which belong
to Kalgoorlie) have contributed £10,940,541, made up as
follows .'—Boulder, £2,513,050 ; Horseshoe, £2,355,000 :
Oroya-Brown Hill, £1,954,991 ; Ivanhoe, £1,818,750;
Fingall, £1,512,500 ; and Perseverance, £1,286,250. Out-
side Kalgoorlie only three cos. are at present paving re-
gular dividends, and one of them—Black Range—is being
worked in such a hand-to-mouth fashion, and is located
in the heart of such an unreliable district, that it might
fail at any time.
♦ * * *
Westralia’s gold yield for the completed seven
months of this year was 966,8090 z., or a shade under
88,000 oz. less than for the corresponding period of last
year, and 164,5640 z. short of that for the first seven
months of 1905. The total output since 1886 to the end
of last month was 17,633,042 fine oz., valued at
£74,899,496.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) report for 1906 shows
tne position to be better than expected. The realisable
the ore ‘' eserves may be put down at over
*2,000,0u0 ; and, estimating' costs at 255. per ton, a profit
in sight of 15s. per share, or about 3s. more than last
year remains. This, coupled with the f ct that the ore
now being treated is well under the average value of the
reserves, and that the eo. has £202,000 in cash and
securities, places the stock high in the list of mining
investments. 6
* * * *
~n . ®pa t Boulder (W.A.) is looking better at
2050 ft.; next to the 1900 ft. this level promises to be the
test opened up below 1200 ft. Except fora small blank,
ffoA?,?.? 1 has averaged 16dwu for r.he first 400 ft. driven
at 2050 ft. ; and, as 12ft. of rich ore has just been struck
in a crosscut 600 ft. south of the main shaft, the prospect
T* *L un of P a y ore being expos dat that depth
looms bright. The extension of the Ivanhoe east lode cut
a tew weeks ago in Hamilton's workings in the north end
Property is now averaging from 10 to 12dwt. per
ton, which is about its average grade.
* » * •
It is announced that, of the 25,000 shares re-
to the public in the Birrigrin (W.A.)
thic, • , shar es were applied for and allotted. As
nmJ! , s , l ? ort , of the number which the published
nn Us alle » ed > ln , b ‘£ type, had already been taken
of - 6 i must be a mistake somewhere. Vendor (who,
<*d previously, holds a controlling interest) has
on fcakf ; £ ?°°° instead of £6OOO in cash, but insists
enmo oi IJg ,? balance as fresh applications for shares
for If ’ how ever, no further shares are applied
in fun has consented to accept the balance of payment
tlio U fl„" paid shares. Want of funds will stare the co. in
e very soon ; and it is likely to perish that way.
i.„? ro >’f'B r ° wn Hill Co. could realise £300,000 on
mirier assets at any time, and still have (at present
Bkot p PnCe) £l , o0 > 000 worth of shares in the Oroya-
the nro an F 6 *. hoot. The general managers state that
taimv) ,°u fc P ut °f £30,000 per month can be main-
lonirpr °m at i L east two years, and possibly for much
Dine ■ definite estimate of what is left of the rich
ratp P<t; ore .'- S lven ’ f° r the very good reason that accu-
Dossihm^ ‘mation in the case of such an ore deposit is im-
ti,is hn y As an example of the extraordinary facility of
mention* m ' Vl l d beyond all estimates, the management
the Rrnf„ u-£ Ve , -'’ears ago the remnant of the shoot in
fV , lease was estimated at 50,000 tons,
as mat block had since produced over 160,000 tons.
'vosin r cff n / p^es that the Oroya-Brown Hill Co. is
equal dTvio; 6 e < nt,a L Moulder Co.’s six-acre lease on an
71 per ppn S f'°- n ° f Promts between the two concerns after
gets a !,?■ ,s paid t 0 the Associated. Why the latter co.
alreadv i' S n °t stated, but it is probably for prospecting
the old d °!?, ea,ld . for draining. A systematic sampling of
able ore i n lkl,1 f» s , ln the Central Boulder disclosed pav-
the lode = ? veral Places, and at No. 4 level the value of
»''er a wirttf?,.V,'i hf L Ot ' oya ' BroWn Hill report as 455.
ldth of 120 ft. This seems too good to be accurate.
Strand Rp b m d f^ om London that the Hannan’s
into a workin der Deep Level oos ' (VV ' A '> have entered
actual agreement, which may materialise into an
"lines will » al “ation later on. In the meantime the
capital (about Can'onnv a ?„u ne ’ and the available lumped
' ut £40,000) will be used for their joint benefit.
These two properties may yield small permanent profits
when worked together, but even that is doubtful.
* » * »
Boulder No. 1 scrip is being inquired for on
account of good reports from the co.'s newly acquired
leases at Magnet. It will take at least six months, how-
ever, to prove the lode in these areas to a depth of 200 ft.,
and until that is done the shares are a pure gamble. The
co. is believed to be rather short of funds at present;
but, as the acquisition of the Magnet property has greatly
enhanced its prospects, there should be no "difficulty in
calling up the 3s. liability, equal to ±33,750, which still
exists on its shares.
* * * *
.The promoters of the Mulga Queen flotation
(W.A.) are sanguine people. There are 40,000 10s. shares
in the co. ; 12,000, fully paid, are collared by the vendors
and promoters. The remaining 28,000 are offered to the
public at Is. on application and Is. 6d. on allotment,
followed by that old gag—“ the balance in calls, if
required." If all the shares are applied for, the co. will
get ±3500 ; but as ±2500 has to be paid to the vendors as
balance of purchase consideration, and as brokerage,
flotation expenses, and cost of registration are bound to
absorb a further ±350, there will be only a beggarly ±O5O
or thereabouts in the pocket of the co. by the time it
starts. The property has been very successfully worked
ln P the payable ore in sight has been
stoped out, and if the co. is formed it will have to scratch
for itself. Moreover, the reef has gone wrong in the
bottom ; and, although something good is alleged to have
been struck in depth by a drill, bore-hole results in the
West are so unreliable that very little importance can be
attached to that alleged find.
* * * #
A scheme is being hatched for boosting Prin-
cess Royal shares, and something like the following may
be flashed across the wires from the West to the papers
at any time : —“ The reef is getting richer in depth ... A
line body of high-grade ore is showing in the face. . . The
mine never looked better . . . Management is elated over
recent discoveries.” In view of the preparations, the
public will know how to sniff if that wire materialises.
* * * *
The latest from Barrambie Ranges :—“ The
mine is developing slowly ... There is only sufficient
water to run the mill from 12 to 14 hours per day ... The
ore requires a lot of water . . . The north face assays
-j*jOz. for a width of 20 inches. The stopes are pro*
ducintf payable ore ... A main vertical working shaft
will be sunk as soon as the management is satisfied that
it is justified in going* to that expense.” As for once no
mention is made of gold-stealing*, it can only be surmised
that the author of the report was interrupted before he
had tune to finish it.
* * * *
An appeal to shareholders to take up £20,000
worth of debentures stock having failed, the directors of
the Golden Link (W.A.) are now trying to engineer a
further reconstruction. It is proposed to form a new co.
with a capital of ±125,000, in 500,000 shares of ss. each,
shares carry a liability of 25., payable Is. on application
and balance in calls. Holders of stock in the present co.
have a right to take up share for share if they want to.
A good many who have had enough of Links already
won’t want to.
j. * * * *
Merton’s Reward Co. (W.A.) has treated 650
tont| of picked ore for an average return of about lOdwt.
per jion. Rather than root the best ore out of the mine,
Judd has retired from the management, and a new man
has been appointed. Good crushings can be maintained
tor some months if “ cream-skimming ” is persisted in,
but though that policy may give some people a chance to
unload, it will only hasten the end, which can’t be remote
in any case.
• * * »
8., M. & Co. have thrown up their option on
the Desdemona lease (W.A.). The reef did not sample as
well as expected, and, as usual, the shoot proved to be
much shorter and smaller than the newspapers alleged.
Moreover, the adjoining block was wanted to make the
show worth having ; and, as the lot could not be pur-
chased at what the option holders considered to be a
reasonable figure, they withdrew.
*l* « *
A local parson appealed, with befitting humility,
A b ? fcte, \ developments in the Bellevue Proprietary
(W.A.), and the, very next day 245. ore was struck at a
depth of 184 ft. in the winze below the No. 4 level. Since
then the shoot has been followed down to 200 ft., where
values average 425. per ton. Hitherto the Bellevue has
been an awful disappointment, but now things may
alter. Any way, it is up to 8., M. & Go. to put something
in the plate. 6
* * * *
Fremantle Smelter, Rtd., was voluntarily
wound up at an extraordinary meeting of shareholders
held in London on the 2nd ultimo.
* * * *
WI- i tes ' n brimstone from Ravensthorpe
(W.A.) to say that a recent statement that that place is
slumping and business people are putting up their
shutters is a lie; also the statement that there are
many out-of-works there is the same sort of lie, only it
has two -—’s in front of it. “True,” “M.R.” adds,
Ravensthorpe is quiet. The local ores contain much
silica, demanding much coke, cartage of which by team
is too costly. In a few months, with a railway, the place
.will hum.” Which is a tamer conclusion than the open-
ing might lead one to expect.
* * * *
Twelve weeks’ work at the Junction North
Broken Hill:— ’
„ . . Outlay
Ore Recoveries. Charged
Output, , * ~ to
tons. Lead. Silver. Profit. Capital.
May .. 3926 63'9p.c. 46'6 p.c. ±2865 ±1756
June .. 3868 62‘5 „ 43'4 „ 1481 1003
July .. 4408 64-2 „ 45’2 „ 3009 2770
Well, the improvement that was talked of is a long time
coining. Certainly, the profit looks better ; but, then
observe what the outlay was on capital account, and that
was in mining alone. It doesn’t matter much how you
charge these things—the blessed bill has to be paid all
Che same. The truth is that-, though the Junction North
has much ore, that ore is of a most refractory character
and the problem of its satisfactory treatment hasn’t been
solved yet.
* * * *
Re Mfc. David mine and “Follower” (B. 8/8/’Q7)
the co.’s secretary forwards the last report and balance-
sheet, and asks whether various of “ Follower’s ” re-
marks were justified. The published accounts are cer-
tainly ample and' lucid ; they show that the “ rent, etc.”
paid for 12 months was ±145. The weakest point seems
to be that, while mine wages absorbed ±1699, adminis-
tration cost ±578, plus manager’s salary ±307. As to the
trainway, the management insists that without it the
battery would have been hung up in the recent heavy
weather; and the yarn that calls were made for a
cyanide plant before the money was wanted is discredited
—as it probably deserves to be. The directors are under-
stood to be the biggest shareholders; and under those
circumstances any undue rushing of calls looks less than
likely.
* » * .
The old Red Flag and Appeal claims, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), have been floated into a co. in Sydney, and a
start made to develop the deep country. A syndicate
has also taken up the Joker, which cost late owner E. E
Tyler much money, and gave no return.
* • • *
Horribly bad luck has pursued Lloyd’s copper
mine (N.S.W.), in which J. Bull and Australia are now
both heavily interested. Eight months ago things looked
very well; general manager Oorbould was making a fine
profit, and the debenture debt was cleared off. Then a
slide came in and cut off the ore. But hope wasn’t lost;
over 1000 ft. northward the outcrop was showing, and it
seemed'certain that when the lode was picked up on that
side of the slide there would be ■ another good run
of ore up to, and probably past, this outcrop. The
lode was picked up all right, and Australia bought
heavily. But slide after slide has come in since,
and, while that has reduced the ore supply, it
has ‘also increased costs seriously. To make things worse,
the firewood supply in that rough, wet country ran out
during the winter, and the management can see nothing
for it but to build.a tramway out to the timber—all the
handy supplies have been used up. Fortunately, the co.
has about ±20,000 available, and, instead of paying a
dividend, the money is going into this new work, and
there will have to be a deal of cheeseparing to make it
go far enough.
* * * *
Melbourne Stock Exchange is in a bad way;
and Sydney is no better. London is as dead-fts a door
nail so far as Australia goes, for it has to ca ttf- hoc only
its load of Victorian deep-lead dreadfuls, but also the
copper shockers and the Barrier wastrels. When the
price to which shares were rushed in each of these
divisions is remembered, it is pretty certain that
London doesn’t feel at all “good” about Australia.
The Barrierites are the best of the group, but the feeling
*s growing that what has happened to copper may take
place with lead. Nevertheless, a nice tale is being told
to local investors of what pleasant things are to happen
when London turns!
* * * *
New Dempsey, Gaffney’3 Creek (Vic.), caused
a big stir in Melbourne last week. A little lot of experts
made for the mine on visiting day. Apparently a knot of
speculators thought reports were to be g’ood, so they
sent rates up with a rocket whizz. On top came a
buying order from the right quarter, but a bit later a
countermand was rushed in. The early bulls tried to crowd
into the bear camp, but had no chance to quit ahead of
the expert crowd ; so the early bulls got badly jammed.
Meanwhile the backers of the mine take the food the gods
send them, believing that the show will beat the market,
as it did a couple of years back. They have to remember,
though, that a lot of losses have to be made up, and that,
outside themselves, there isn’t much bull strength about.
• • * •*
.The execution of Pauli, the late chairman, at the
half-yearly meeting of the South German Reef, Maldon, has
not brought luck to the co. Fact is, the reef in the
winze at 1900 ft. has shrunk to 6in. This, like all Maldon
stone, “ prospects well.” It needs to, though the battery
does not bear out the report. South German, all through
the last nutter, has been voted a “ roarer,” and the
JNelson reef a make-believe. The latest development
confirms those opinions.
* * * *
The highly successful Tewksbury dredges,
Gippsland (Vic.), are now being taken over by a consoli-
dated co., and the public is being admitted to the busi-
ness. The prospectus was advertised in The Bulletin of
August 1.
* » * *
The Vaughan Bucket Dredging Co., Castle-
maine, holds the Victorian record for profitably working
poor stuff, by paying £lOOO in divs. in 12 months out of
ground yielding only a grain to the culic yard.
* * * »
In the matter of gold-dredging, the report of
the Vic. Mines Department may remove some of the
farmers’ fear of spoiled watercourses and mud-damaged
flats. During 1896 there were 125 plants, consisting of 36
bucket dredges, 82 hydraulic pump sluices, 6 jet eleva-
tors, and one rotary hydraulic. They turned over
17,309,000 cubic yards of material, covering 628 acres,
and employed 2667 men in obtaining 85,2700 z. gold. Add
the work of gravitational hydraulic sluicing, and the
figures become 17,786,000 cubic yards, 646 acres, 2813
men, 89,3860 z. Of the ground treated, 586 acres con-
sisted of river and creek beds, and 60 acres of pastoral
land ; so, on that showing, the “ fertile lands of Victoria"
haven t suffered much. Plants cost £438,000 (including
£35,500 for gravitational sluicing), and the amount spent
in wages, frill and maintenance was £300,641. Dividends
were £45,629. The covenants imposed upon dredgers
including not only the stacking of tailings, but in some
cases the replacing and resowing with grass of produc-
tive surface soil, protects the farmer all right, provided
they are enforced as they should be. The Sludge Board,
by the way, gets back on the complaining rural munici-
palities, which squeal whenever an ounce of silt goes from
a dredge into a stream. These councils own roads, says
the Board, which wash away in gravel, their gutters scour
into creeks, and they regard the rivers as the natural re-
ceptacles for their sewage. Which is a neater thing than
you would expect from a Sludge Board.
* * * *
The prospectus is out in Melbourne for the
Clear Creek G. M. Co., to work a show “situate due
north from Walhaila, and believed to be a continuation
of the famous Cohen’s line of reef”—but it isn’t men-
tioned how far north of Walhaila this supposed continua-
tion is. The promoters, in .-pite of that little omission
show remarkable foresight in some things. Though the
whole capital available oil application and allotment will
be £6OO, less flotation expenses, “the directors have
secured on behalf of the co. a complete winding-plant” *
and they know of a 12-head battery that can be got cheap.'
Also, they have appointed theauditor—a very good auditor'-
yet shareholders usually do like to have a hand in appoint-
ing the man who is to overhaul things on their behalf.
All this forethought recalls the nigger who promptly
planted mustard and cress when a rumor floated in that
a new missionary was coming.
* * * *
There are petitions out in the North Queens-
land tin district, around Koorboora, asking for a State
battery. The claim-holders have two grievances; they
say—(l) £1 per ton for crushing is too much ; (2) they
don’t get a fair price for their concentrates. If the State
ran a battery, it wouldn’t, however, be justified in buy-
ing concentrates and dealing in tin—at the most, ‘it
could only advance against concentrates or metal pend-
ing realisation. Apparently the complaint is that the
private batteries prefer to take stone from people who
will sell their concentrates ; and, judging by the prices
paid, that looks very likely. For instance, on July 1 a
parcel of 61 tons llewt. ore gave 2 tons lewt. concen-
trates, averaging 62 per cent, metal. Tin was worth
£196 at the time ; so 62 per cent, concentrates contained
£l2l worth of metal. Yet the returns show that only
£BB per ton was paid for the concentrates. No doubt
the tin buyer has to take risks; but at that time the
local buyer could sell forward-three months delivery at
£lB3, or £ll3 10s. for 62 per cent, concentrates ; and the
difference between £BB and £ll3 10s. is a pretty large
margin to cover smelting charges, freight, and the losses
which don’t amount to much.
* * » #
Captain Warren, of Smith’s Creek (N.Q.), who
has been doing all that an energetic and experiened
manager can to surmount big difficulties, is to be relieved
by Brander, of the Chillagoe. The Smith’s Creek ore h„o
to pass through a rock-breaker, Cornish rolls, and Hunt-
ingdon mills ; some of the concentrates are roasted in a
Merton furnace ; then the copper associated with the
tin ore is leached out, and the residues treated by iigs
and Krupp vanners. Some of the ore at the deepest
level (300 ft.) assays lj per cent, for copper ; such heavy
mineral is not a bad sign for permanency. Both the
200 ft. and 300 ft. levels have been extended 221 ft. A slide
or crosscourse has cut off the tin oxide in both levels.
The somewhat elaborate process the ore is subjected to
in order to produce market ble tin concentrates, and the
timbering required in the mine, have kept Smith’s Creek
struggling with difficulties instead of paying dividends
But still there is a strong crowd that sticks to the mine
and pays 9s. for ordinary shares.
* * * *
Dalziell’s (North Queensland tin), which an-
nounces its third 6d. dividend, has started crushing ore
and there are the usual high expectations. The working’
costs are very moderate; for the people who own the
battery take a lively interest in the welfare of Dalziell’s.
As to the show itself, a winze is being sunk below the
level of the tunnel; but prospects are rather poor. The
show is nothing like what was claimed at first; but,' then
there are some 30 acres of ground surrounded by tin
shows, one of which is the Aunty Janet, about which
inquiries were made in a recent Bulletin. In the Aunty
Janet, tin oxide is associated with tourmaline, and the
latter is rather too plentiful. Wolfram is beinsr mined
just across the gully.
* * * «
The old Union, on the Hodgkinson (N.Q.), is
to be developed by a local co. Although carriage diffi-
culties did most to make the Union a financial failure
during its fitful career of nearly 30 years, the old mine’s
record of 21,2500 z. of £3 19s. gold from 21,250 tons of
stone is sufficient to show that what may be a failure in
remote North Queensland would be a bonanza in say
Victoria. J ’
* * * *
From Cloncurry (Q.) : The diamond drill has
arrived for the Freeholds Co., and goes to the Argylla at
once ; after probing this much-advertised lode, it will
move on to the Chinaman, Just-in-Time and other pro-
perties at Duck Creek. Copper has been coming in more
freely of late. Wilcocks Co. is despatching all it has at
grass to raise the much-needed wind. The co.’s smelter
is getting on, but a lot of rust will accumulate before it is
put in blast unless the co. hustles with mine develop-
ment. Water continues to dry up, and numerous and
loud are the complaints about the Divisional Board’s
neglect of well-sinking. There is a sum of £l9OO or
£2OOO to the Board’s credit; but instead of opening up
the roads and assisting the mines it leaves the money re-
posing in the bank.
* * * *
About 10,000 shares represent the whole of the
Australian holding in the Mt. Lyell Blocks, one time
W. R. Wilson and F. G. Duff’s. The rest of the 300 000
shares have been stowed away in England and France,
with people who have mighty little chance of getting
their money back. Ore reserves have lately been drawn
upon, so that only 24,350 tons show up, as against 37,450
tons at the start of last half-year. Seeing that in the six
months 33,247 tons were treated, there is only about five
months’ work in sight. What makes matters worse is
that the grade of the ore is down to 1 per cent, copper,
and that is payable only with such high rates as the
metal stood at last half-year. The average value of the
clay was 1 - 2 copper, but of that the average recovery was
only 68 - 647 p.c. Everywhere the mine is bearing down on
the timbers ; therefore even so cautious a lot as the direc-
tors admit that “owing to the great expense of keeping
the workings in safe order, the expenses are likely to in-
crease, and some portions of the mine may not pay.” It
looks as if a new mine will have to be opened up, on the
gamble that the clays may live down or that a body of
sulphide ore may be hit. lienee it is that the Board is
looking for a new claim. The directors have already
tried Muir’s Mt. Darwin copper show, and given it best.
Now they are prospecting Hyde’s Queensberry mine, near
Strahan ; and as there is £17,141 to the credit of profit
and loss, they have a bit to play with and pay Board fees
out of. Profit last half-year was £3247 from 274 tons of
copper. With the metal now down £3O per ton, the
bottom is clearly out of the profit.
* * * ■*
Reader (and many others): Can’t give mining
tips. If we could say what stocks are going up or
down, we should also be able to tell what burglaries
are going to be committed next J.O.D. : That with-
holding of vendors’ shares is an old trick, very popular in
London, and has resulted in a general demand for cash
instead of shares. Without express agreement, you can
do nothing. Moreover, as the vendor mostly wants his
scrip to rush it on the market, he doesn’t generally get
much sympathy either C.H.J. : (1) Sick. (2) Neither
is an investment ; one has never paid a div. and the
other has been most erratic. (Z) Pretty good. (4)
Miserable.
* * * *
Last year the Oroya-Brown Hill directors—
seven in number—cut up £15,000 among them in commis-
sion and fees. But shareholders do not seem to mind.
Of course it is a London co.
For Security
Stability
Economy
perpetual Trustee
c °mpany (Limited),
st ands alone.
J r ustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Forneys under Power
Agents.
® 6 Spring' Street,
•Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager*
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easib’applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Two sets of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the Victorian
Deep Leads G.M. Company (Messrs Bewick, Moreing and
Co.). Each set will consist of two lifts 250 ft., the total
lift being 500 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in diameter, and
each set of two delivers into one rising main, the dis-
charge per day being 5,000,000 gallons. The valve boxes
are made in separate pieces, and the valves are of the
double flap type. The total weight is 150 tons. There is
no balance weight in the bob, but the one set of pumps
balances the other. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany have this work in hand. This Company has con-
structed and erected most of the big volume, deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
* * » *
In summarising the figures contained in the
annual report of The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited for the year ended 31st December, 1905,
the Joint Stock Companies Journal (London) in its issue
of sth September, 1906, wrote:—“He would be an in-
genious manipulator of facts who could tak. the records
which we have summarised here, and disprove the state-
ment that they show beyond question that the popularity
of The Colonial Mutual is great and growing.”
* * * *
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
addiess, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour Out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* » * _ *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
• * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasofine
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* * * #
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd.,74Castlereagh-st., 74;Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still thee was not £lO of
extras.”*
* * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write ue for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for Hit
latest information on the field.*


POLITCAL
POINTS
The secesh craze biteth like a serpent and
stingeth like Six Hatters.
A tariff can be told by the company it
keeps. If it keeps company with an importing
co. it’s all wrong ; if with a manufacturing co.
it’s all right. And, judging by the howl of the
importing co. this new tariff’s among the all-
rights.
UNINVITED.
At the Hague Conference, on Wednesday, Belgium’s
proposal regarding the dropping of explosives from
balloons during warfare was discussed.
“Beggiff your pardon, mum, but Hi 'ave strick
orders as ’ow you wasn’t to be hadmitted."
Sydney Telegraph devoted a recent lead-
ing article to assuring its readers that “ the salary
of Commonwealth legislators is fixed by the Con-
stitution, and cannot, without an amendment of
that instrument, be legally altered.” It is
amazing how much the Telegraph doesn’t know
about the Constitution.
The Queensland Government is again
amending its Elections Act, and proposes (so it
is said) to smite the postal ballot, hip and thigh.
The Q- postal ballot, in its present form, is
mainly the creation of the Legislative Council,
and bears the unholy brand of its parentage writ
large on its forehead.
From every news-bill in Sydney last Friday
the morning papers shrieked “ The New Tariff:
Cost of Living Greatly Increased.” And never a
Protectionist daily to shriek back mockingly—
“ The New Tariff: Means of Living Greatly In-
creased.” So Sydney went grumpily to its work
with the thought soaking in that it would have
to spend another sixpence; it missed the sugges-
tion that it had got the chance to earn another
ninepence.
There is again a whisper of increasing the
allowances of Federal members to £6OO a year —
still an inadequate sum, though better than the
present £4OO. But the Ministry, though it
believes in the reform, dare not propose ; and the
Labor party, though it believes in it, dare not
prompt; arid the Opposition, though it believes,
will inevitably howl when the suggestion is made.
So a timid hypocrisy stands in the way of a step
which nine-tenths of sensible people recognise as
absolutely necessary.
Treasurer Lyne proposes to take the
Budget and the Tariff together, so that one ab-
stract discussion will do tor the two. Joseph
Cook demands that there should be two dis-
cussions, so that his supporters may say everything
they can think of in the course of the Budget de-
bate, and then say it all over again'when the
Tariff comes up; but Lyne says that he only wants
to hear their eloquence once, and even half of that
would do him.
Recent hurried Customs clearances moved
Sydney Telegraph to state in an extremely
pained voice i
According to some views, Australia is supposed to be
g'oing in for a very considerable and wide range of highly
protective duties, but surely there is no reason to antici-
pate such a catastrophe,
“ Catastrophe” is a good word in this connection.
The new Postal Bill purposes giving the Tele*
graph, inter alia, 200 per cent. Protection (Jd.
postage per 12oz. as against the imported paper’s
id. per 40z.), but the Telegraph is blissfully
silent under this impending “ catastrophe ”, just
as it was formedy furious when the See Govern-
ment took it from under a similar “catastrophe”
in the shape of free newspaper carriage. The
spectacle of the Telegraph gluttonously wolfing
what it weepfully assart s t’other fellow is poison
and a calamity and a catastrophe grows a little
tiresome.
“ Wal D.” : S. Australian Laljor member
Dankel has been pursuing the darksome sausage
to its lair and loudly exposing its filthy habits,
much to the indignation of certain butchers who
claim that the hag of mystery is a cleanly creature.
Dankel was a butcher himself in his pre-Parlia-
mentary days, and has an intimate knowledge of
the goodness or otherwise of the “dead meat clad
in overcoats and hung in strings to trap the
unwary,” and his experience is valued in the dis-
cussion of the Public Abattoirs Bill now before
S.A. Parliament. Certain purveyors of small
goods have replied to Dankel in newspaper letters,
and the butcher member is quite enjoying himself.
Senator Jimmy M‘Coll spoke soft, oily
things lately to the Women’s National League at
Geelong (Vic.). Here is one of the bits of butter
he put on the League’s plate :
The condition of the masses has been ameliorated
largely by legislation. Factory laws, Wages Boards, and
arbitration all tended to that.
And the Women’s League, representative of the
class which fought the said “ameliorations”
tooth and claw, and prophesied ruin by reason of
them, smiled affably at itself, as if to say that it
did these things, and that with such a splendid
record it was quite absurd to call it backward,
narrow, and Tory.
There is trouble ahead for the S. Aus.
Labor party, if it doesn’t look out. Noting that
many Labor candidates nowadays are men who
don’t wear corns on their hands, some of the
“ workers” begin to clamor for what they call “a
true Labor party ”; in plain words, a manual-labor
party. McGillivray, one of the oldest M’s.L.A., is
publicly urging the exclusion of all but trade-union-
ists. If this foolish agitation succeeds, the S.
Aus. Progressive forces will be divided once
more, and the Tory crowd, which under present
conditions has not even a remote chance of getting
into power, will bob up again.
G. Reid has been lecturing, at
church entertainment, on “Things I
would like to forget.” But the things
that G. H. Reid would like to forget are
not a circumstance compared with the
things he would like other people to dis-
remember.
Australia proposes to make a small and
desperately cautious beginning with its arma-
ments —coastal defences for a whole continent,
£355,000 ; small-arms factory, capable of turning
out 20,000 rifles a year, £64,000 ; cordite factory,
£10,000; cannon foundry, nil ; steel mill to make
plates for ironclads, nil ; shipyards to build iron-
clads, cruisers, torpedo boats, etc., nil. Still, if
the enemy gives us 100 years’ breathing time, we
may be ready.
In 1909 the Federal agreement for the use
of the Eastern Extension Co.’s cable to Tasmania
expires, and by that time the Federal P.M.G.
intends to have two Government-owned cables
working, and paid for out of revenue. The Aus-
tralian Parliament keeps up its splendid record
of being the one non-borrowing Legislature in
Australasia, and as the earnings from its public
works are not eaten up by the locust of interest,
they already begin to assist the revenue a little.
Dr. Carty Salmon, of the House of Reps.,
is the latest Australian legislator to rediscover a
country which has a whole lot of public works and
no debt. In fact, he finds that it is rushing public
works on at a great rate, and he finds that it can
afford to rush because it hasn t got any debt. In
other words, having paid for all that it has, it
hasn’t now to pay any interest bill, and can there-
fore pile its whole revenue into more works. The
country that has done this is the Malay Federa-
tion —the poor little nigger has done what the
“sturdy, independent, self-reliant,” etc., Aus-
tralian State legislator hasn t had the pluck to
attempt. If Australia had adopted the Malay
policy, it would by this time have spent probably
more on works than it has done, and, having no
interest to pay, it would have £8,850,000 a year
more to spend on works now —as much, that is, as
the whole of the Commonwealth Customs revenue,
and much more than twice as much as all the
State taxation in all the States put together. The
awful debt burden can’t be got rid of by mourning
over it; but it can be got rid of by paying it off,
and that’s the only way it can be respectably got
rid of.
ON THE STUMP.
REFORM CANDIDATE : “ There is no doubt about this country’s great prosperity,"
A VOICE : “ Wotcher givin’ us I How the can the country be prosperous with
Squires biffed out in one round, the Blues walked over, and Towns donkey-licked for
the championship ? Get work!"
Col. Ryrie, the Deform candidate for
Queanbeyan (N.8.W.), struck a nasty snag at a
recent political meeting. The erstwhile secretary
of the local Deform movement rose with a fatal
smile on his lips to ask : “Did you not, when in
conversation with me, assert that you only posed
as a temperance advocate to catch the votes of
the ‘damned women ’? ” The noble colonel was
speechless for a moment; then he threw a whole
Saratoga trunk, like the hero of melodrama, and
declared it was not in him to speak so dis-
respectfully of the fair sex. All the same, it was
a nasty question.
The Great Western Railway syndicate
people are working hard and earnestly to get
their enormous steal through the Tasmanian
Assembly, and strange rumors blow around
as to the reasons some members have for
voting for the Bill. Members of the
Labor party are daily besieged, but will
vote solidly against the proposal. Jones
attended a meeting of one of the principal
Labor leagues in Hobart the other night,
and tried to show that the proposal to give
away a whole heap of the country to a
railway monopoly was a Socialistic idea,
and that the co. was actuated solely by a
desire to benefit the people of Tasmania.
As soon as he had finished, the league pro-
ceeded with a motion denouncing the
affair root and branch, horns, hide and
tail; but Jones had passed out into the
starry night before he got anything like all
that was coming to him. Tasmania has
one ghastly example of railway monopoly
in the shape of the Emu Bay Co., and is
satisfied to hump its bluey along corduroy
tracks, until it gets a Government that
will provide money to build railways of its
own and pay for them out of revenue.
Dear Bulletin. —The National Australian
spirit shown by the moneyed class generally of
N.S.W. is overwhelming. During dinner hour
at my place of employment I am in the habit of
reading the daily paper. Recently, when folding
it away in front of my employer, I remarked to
him: “I see the Prime Minister is ill.” The
reply staggered me. “Ishe ? I’m sorry. I like
Carruthers.” —L. W.
Australia is threatened with another im-
ported pest, some camels quarantined at Port
Headland (Westralia) having proved to be afflicted
with “surra.” This dread disease is rife in
Asiatic countries. Its home is India, but English
troops have carried it to China, and the Yankees
have introduced it in the Philippines. It is com-
municable to all stock, but is particularly fatal
to horses and camels. Many apparently good
authorities state that a horse or camel stricken
with the disease never recovers, though it may sur-
vive a few months. Further, it is a highly
infectious complaint, and easily transferred from
one animal to another, chiefly by flies. So that
altogether “surra” is a cheerless prospect for a
great cattle, horse and sheep country like Australia.
David Storey, M.L.A., lately discoursed
on Greater Sydney. He said it was a “pre-
posterous proposal,” and that “we” will not
have it. He said that he had seen too much
of the effect of its operations in America —where-
abouts in America he saw Greater Sydney he did
not mention, nor did he particularise what the
effects of it on America were. Then he wandered
round to statements (1) that there are too many
Parliaments in Australia, and (2) that there are
too many members in those Parliaments, to wit,
66G members. Well, The Bulletin thinks that
if 666 are too many members to govern upwards
of 4,000,000 Australians in seven Parliaments,
555 aldermen and 444 councils (correct us if
wrong) are too many to govern half-a-million
citizens of Greater Sydney, It has already said
that 333 times, and if it wasn’t that it is now two
to two a.m., and the paper wants to get to bed, it
would say it again.
What could be easier than to dissolve any
difficulties and misunderstandings of the new
tariff in a genial and wisdom-provoking flow of
D.C.L. Whisky ? The Wise always resort to that
beverage to dispel gloomy mental vapors by its
luminous inspirations. It lights them to that
optimistic courage which achieves success by
laughing difficulties out of countenance.
The Australian administration of Papua
is beginning to work in real earnest, Staniforth
Smith arrived, the other day, with 10 tons of
plants and three tons of seeds for the Government
nurseries. He didn’t wait to be sworu in to his
new office, because some of the plants were wilt-
ing ; contrary to all precedent, he rushed off to
the Laloki River in an unsworn condition, and in
a week’s time Papua had a nursery with over 100
kinds of valuable economic plants. Then S.
Smith came back with his spade over his shoulder
to be formally installed in his new office. Thus
Australia begins to show what it can do in its
shirt-sleeves. The new Governor, Justice
Murray, has made a bonfire of most of the frills
that used to hover about his job, and velocity has
become the order of the day.
RE FORRESrS RESIGNATION.
FIRST TOP-HAT : “ Show me the Socialist who
would sacrifice £1500 a year for principle 's
sake.”
SECOND AND THIRD TO-HATS (in chorus).
“ Hear, hear!”
The point of this joke may be seen with a power-
ful magnifying glass. It consists in the fact that a
Socialist never gets £15000 a year.
A blown-out Federal politician, who has
got the job of arousing some of the country |
districts of N. S. Wales to the horrors of the Labor
party and the glories of Carruthers, has been
asking the Cow-industry people to ponder e
dreadful things that would happen if the La o |
party got in, and the Arbitration Act were tmn
naturally applied to dairying. Usually the
former pictures a father calling his son to mi ®
5.15 a.m., and being told from under the hli P for “ e
that the cursed Act won't let anyone get up
6.30. What the apostle of Joseph doesnt
tion is that the cursed Act has been in frn '
in Maoriland for 13 years, and applied wn
it can be reasonably applied, and that tne
has been so little knocked out in consequenc g
the value of the butter and cheese expor
gone up from £366,483 in 1894 (when beau
brought the Curse along) to £1,613,728 in 19
THE SICK EAGLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
President Roosevelt denies that he has any intention
of transferring’ a fleet of battleships to the Pacific Station.
— Cable.
Japan threatens to boycott ail American goods unless
the San Francisco school difficulty is satisfactorily
arranged.— Cable.
Is the great old Eagle ill? Can’t it raise a war-whoop
shrill ?
1,0, it perches meek and still, like a clam ;
Doth it suffer grievous pangs? Damp and drear its
plumage hangs—
Ain’t you game to show your fangs.
* Uncle Sam ?
Was it you who made it plain unto much-astonished
Spain
That the Yanks could smash in twain any foe?
Has the present ’Murkan breed laid aside its fighting-
creed ?
Do the Yanks no longer heed
Br’er Monroe ?
Is that gospel laid aside which was once the country's
pride ?
Is the drooping Eagle fastened With a string ?
Does it camp upon a post like a parrot or a ghost.
And hide its ancient boast
’Neath its wing ?
All forgotten lie the bones of the sea-dog, Fighting Jones—
Of the Admiral whose tones rang afar ;
Yea, the Eagle only screams when athwart its troubled
dreams
Flash the poultry-scaring beams
Of his star 1
So the Monkey waves his tail while the Eagle crouches
pale,
For no Yankee fleet will sail round the Horn ;
Aye, the battleships will laze in the snug Atlantic bays,
For alas 1 the U.S.A.’s
All forlorn 1
Pride of race? Hold forth no more—’tis a dream whose
glamor’s o’er —
Lo ! The Monkey at the door batters loud !
Uncle Sam, he might have led—might have been the
Empire’s head—
But he’s lying like the dead
In his shroud!
Tea, the ’Murkan Eagle’s ill , so we hear no war-whoop
shrill,
For it slumbers meek and still, like a clam ;
Hath it suffered grievous pangs ? Damp and drear its
plumage hangs—
Have you lost your blessed fangs,
Uncle Sam. ?
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Pt£
(22-0 *~i~* O HEX-iL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Nagco, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.^
We make them on the premises. .
We make more than any other firm in Aust
We also import them from the famous Amen
firm, A. A. Marks. . , . _„ oa/ , n .
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at rea**
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
Surgical Instrument
DENYER BROTHERS /' Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter
Also at Mebbournb.
St.>


THE CALLAGHAN
“ECONOMY”
mmohmhh
BOOT
FOR MEN,
17/6
Post and Duty Free all
over tho
Commonwealth.
A Really
Strong Boot,
Serviceable for City or
Country Wear. In Black French Calf.
Price 16/0, or Post Paid 17/6.
There is genuine pleasure in putting on a CALLAGHAN BOOT
or .SHOE,, as such extraordinary- care is taken in the Cutting
and Fitting of the different parts that, when you get the Right
Aize, your foot troubles are over. Surely this fact is good
enough to induce you to wear "THE CALLAGHAN,”
OPINION OF A WEARER .
“Messrs. Callaghan & Sons,
“ Dear Sirs, —. ... I was afraid the boots would be too narrow when I first
opened the parcel, but was agreeably surprised to find they were an exact fit —
indeed, a home for my poor feet. I will not fail to recommend your goods.
C. 8., Thursday Island.”
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
IV© Exchange Goodsfor Refund Money.
Send for a Post Free Copy of our “Style Book.”
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS .
In Whipcords
and Saddle Twists,
25/-; 32/6
RIDING BREECHES .
Whipcords and
•Saddle Twists,
32/6 to 50/
Garbardines and Twillettes
32/6 to 457-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated.
Design No. HO.
50/- to 757-
fly OR SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED OR BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES
—cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
SMARTEST KNICKERS WORN.
BS
Specially Designed ...
For Perfect Freedom in WalKing, Fishing,
Shooting, Golfing, Motoring, etc.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.—A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
Buckley & Nunn
TAILORS and
BREECHES
MAKERS,
LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke *st., Melbourne
■Malthoid Dampcourse
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
AN EXPERT OPINION says, “Exhaustive tests clearly show
MALTHOTP DAMPCOURSE is different to the others, and is best for my
clients to use.” This, FROM A PROMINENT ANALYST, carries great
weight. Further, “the enormous difference in these materials is sur-
prising ; and great care should be taken in selecting.”
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
'(UttZ
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
w. s. friend & (;o.
G. )<:. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SOU BY & CO., N KWCABTLF,.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers & Ammunition.
THE CELEBRATED WINCHESTER, 6 Shot, 32 Cal., Oct. Barrel about
24 Inches, Weight 8} lb.
Price,
57/6
161
James Martin and Co.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly
"aj 4
After
Before
There’s a Difference
A great big difference too in Moustache
preparations. CAFIIiIiARINE is a
time-tried article —has been on the market
25 years, and is a guaranteed Moustache
grower.
Price 10/G
Posted Free to any Address in Australasia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Yeat s.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TlME—They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
tfNE to
m
COUPON
truf^
Thousands of Homes Have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY, and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms—
-387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY.
Therefore
* CO
'OO
C S"
•m OL
A
A n
5 £
» 2Sa
c O
0)
XJ ™


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
A Sydney, August 13, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Anew squad of naval bridegrooms for moneyed
f> ivf’fM 1 ! be here before Spring is dead. Flagship
S'! leaves next month for Colombo, where it
disembark all its officers—those who married
the moneyed girl here ; those who are engaged to
er (or instance, the Admiral’s private secre-
tary Mr. Miller, whose fiancee is a heavily-
gilded squatter girl named McKay, and warrior
l,vans, who is engaged to Miss Mac Neil) ;
those who didn t marry here because they had
already married elsewhere ; and those who are
either too young to marry, or who failed to secure
a girl whose father has a billet near the till. The
new consignment of imported goods—the tariff
aoesn t touch them—will minuet on board, the
warship will return, and the fun begin all over
again between the new season’s Marine Products
and the Commonwealth Fisherwoman. Meantime
the trail f l has been supplying almost the only
crumb of gaiety thrown to a small set of girls
during this very dull winter. The same set of
girls and young married women goes to every one
of these fortnightly dances (fortnightly is about
the average). I hey include Knox girls, Gould
girls Ryno girls Mort girls-there are seven
Mort girls, a friend tells me, and, report says all
pretty—and an Owen girl. Then Miss Rawson
has been going of late, and so also have two
visitors—Misses Vaughan and Wilson. The
Napiers, the Harrison Smiths and the Tremayne
Kodds are the married braces who are always “on
cieck for these water parties.
Little tents for sitting-out, and lighted only by
the stars, are a convenience to those of the Marine
Products and the Fisherwoman who hold
whispered converse on questions of the heart.
The Catinat (French) is also shoving a lump of
eoal in the furnace, and getting up steam to glide
off the faoe of these waters. Talking of the
Catinat, a beautiful young junior lieutenant or
middy—Le Dantec by name—has become a real
right-worshipful among the girls. His brown
eyejS, as big as saucers, provided you select the
right size in saucers, and his teeth, as good as
those of our vice-regal sec.’s, and his unabashed
efforts to speak Australian, have caused several
girls to take hurried lessons in French. When
the Catinat returns here next year they’ll talk to
the lad in his native Frog—so they say. Anyhow
he has been good for trade. A lot of teachers
have got a lot of pupils by reason of him.
For the rest. Monsieur le Dantec is a cousin of
that Felix le Dantec whose terribly learned and
technical book, “ Nature and Origin of Life ”
some people are trying to read.
Miss Rawson made a splendid christening shot
with a bottle of Australian champagne when she
fired it at the new Watson’s Bay lifeboat's bows
during the launching ceremony last Friday. She
took the bottle by the neck and flung it for the
centre of the bows—and it got there instead of on
to one of the gentlemen standing beside or behind
her. She named the new craft Alice Rawson,
and with gold scissors cut the ribbon that (ap-
parently) tied it to land. It was a beautiful boat
and did fish-and-waterfowl-like tricks in the Bay!
The function was an over manned one, stiff with
Captains and Harbor Trust and Departmental
gentlemen.
Miss Eastermorn Waller, daughter of one of
the Harbor Trust Commissioners, leaves presently
for foreign parts and fiddle-study. She already
draws a capable bow across responsive strings.
What a change has come over the way of a man
with his mother-in-law ! She used to be one of the
radical jokes of life. Now she is one of the charms
of her son-in-law’s life. But the public hasn’t
quite recognised the fact that the mother-in-law
is no longer a terror to the man who has married
her daughter. Her eye used to be to him ns all-see-
ing as that of Providence. She saw only his mis-
deeds, and her wrath was akin tothatof the Turkish
host which killed the grass three miles ahead of
it with the flame of battle in its eye. Now she
flatters the brute who has married her lamb, and
he ogles her, and compliments her outrageously,
telling her that he was in love with her first, but
as she wasn’t available he took her daughter just
so as to be related to her. He’ll sit beside her at
the play for choice, and see her home afterwards
talking all the time, and be quite gratified if one
of his friends mistakes her for his wife. There is
no frumpiness about the mother-in-law of 1907.
Which reminds me that when the last American
liner wallowed into the stream it had “ Penny-
dom” Fred Shipman’s mother-in-law aboard.
I he night was cold and as dark as a million black
cats, and as the vessel hadn’t come in,before five
it had to lie out in the stream, and nary a pas-
senger landed. Fred S., in a waterman’s boat,
pulled round and round the liner, his voice crying
in the wilderness of water. At last a voice
shouted down from the quarter-deck, “ Here
what are you making such a fuss about ? Do you
want anything?’’ “Why, certainly,” replied
* red. You ve got my mother-in-law aboard
I want my mother-in-law.” There was a silence
you could stick with a hat-pin. Then a voice of
another color was heard remarking “He wants
his mother-in-law! She must have a pot of
money.” The old joke dies hard. A stewardess
roused the lady, who had gone to rest, and indi-
cated her port hole to the man in the boat, and
the mother-in-law leaned out from the cold bar of
the port hole, and the son-in-law stood up in the
boat, and though the conversation that followed
was held on the top notes of the two voices, it
lasted an hour and a half.
When the unseen lady materialised at the Aus-
tralia next day, she proved to be very bright-
eyed, slight, white-haired, and fluffily up to the
half-minute in fashion.
“ Wot I wanter know,” says Hopkinson, the
rich bounder in the Willoughby-Ward play, “ is
who pays for the stamp?” .He refers to the
stamp on the marriage settlement of his bride-
elect, the lord s daughter. It sounds an exaggera-
tion of economy, even in such a bounder as Hoppy,
but one of the audience actually witnessed some
years ago something akin to it. The late Mr.
Alexander Cruickshank was selling a station
property of his to one of the Rundle family for
£BO,OOO, and the transaction would have fallen
through at the last minute on a dispute as to who
should pay for the two-shilling stamp, if a mutual
friend who was present had not paid the money out
of his own wallet. And the stamp had been
affixed before the trouble arose, so if the sale had
fallen through it would presumably have been
wasted, unless someone licked it off. And there
would probably have been a row over the question
of who should lick
The playing by little Miss Scaife of the rfile of
lady’s maid Eliza Dibb in “Mr. Hopkinson,’’ is
one of the features of the piece. It stands out in
pretty, cheeky relief, and the girl herself, in her
neat black costume and white collar and cuffs,
looks a ripping little’tiring-maid. Just the sort
to break up a Hoppy, ’appy 'ome,
Concerning George Willoughby : His friends
are congratulating him and Mrs. on the arrival
last week of a small girl.
The Bridge table, always so sure a stimulus to
conversation, stimulated with dreadful effect in
this city a week or two back. A quite well-
meaning little man, cheered bv the sight of an
excellent hand, remarked genially to his partner,
apropos the new tariff, or the kitchen-stove, or
the fire-irons, or some other subject of which he
was equally innocent, that “he felt really de-
lighted to hear ‘So and Sos’were on their feet
again.” He didn’t know the lady lie was ad-
dressing was a near relative of the “So and So”
himself. But he grasped the fact thoroughly later
on when he was handed a £5OOO writ for libel or
slander or financial debauchery, or some other
dreadful thing of the sort. Ho has bearded “So
and So” at his own counter, and placated him
by means of infinite argument and explanation
and self-abasement, and now leaves tariff matters
suddenly alone.
On the Murrumbidgee is a village surrounded
by the stations of the haughty Osborne clan.
Thither come hundreds of letters annually from
shearers applying for pens. Lying before me as
I write is a list, compiled by the local postmaster
in the intervals between killing flies and arguing
with friendsas to the responsibility of the Australian
Government for the defeat of Bill Squires and
Charlie Towns, wherein the name Osborne is
shown to be spelt by would-be toilers in 58 different
ways—ranging from Ozbone, Hawsburn, and
Jlearsebine to Hossbin, and Horsebun. Now,
there are about 588 sheep-owning Osbornes in this
State, all belonging to the same family, and all (or
nearly all) spelling their joint name in the same
way. When the said joint name is spelt in low-
comedy fashion—as Ozbone, or Horsebun, or
Wishbone—the joint feelings of the family are
hurt. Let shearers who read this column take
note.
Miss Rawson and the Primate Smith, with a
few Smithereens, have promised to attend the
concert that Miss Eva Champion is to give on
Friday, the 30th. A new setting of Tennyson’s
“O Diviner Air,” by Miss Saumarez Smith, will
be sung for the first time here. The girls of the
G. R. Guild are engineering the concert, and
Miss Grace Burrows is business-manageress.
Miss Ethel Kite, one of Sydney’s most popular
girls, has been seriously ill at Bathurst. The
trouble is typhoid—not the more general pneu-
monia with complications. A big circle will
rejoice to learn that the patient, if not con-
valescent, is now at any rate out of danger.
Another fashionable brace is to breast the altar,
which must be shiny by this time through affec-
tionate couples leaning on it. Mr. Willie Busby
is engaged to a Learinonth bud—a niece of Mrs.
Adrian Knox.
Miss Florence Baines has been struck by the
new tariff. A quantity of printed stuff (posters
and the like; theatrical material that used to be
3d. a pound) is now 6d., and will arrive in splen-
did time for the increased duties. The duties are
hard at work now, but if there is any inefficiency
or lack of experience about them they will get
over that before Miss Baines’ printing arrives.
The lady’s motor-car will also arrive next week.
It is a £5OO odd car and will carry a duty
of a third of its cost. Miss Lancashire
Limited will probably use some unlimited lan-
guage. As to the car, the duty charged on it will
probably be refunded when it leaves. And as re-
gards the printing it probably serves the lady
right. We can do as good printing here as any-
where else on earth, and if our posters weren t
good enough for Miss 8., why did she regard our
patronage as good enough ?
I have just been looking, with eyes rounded in
admiration, at some miniatures by Miss Richards,
of Woods’ Chambers. The face of a fairy-like,
golden-haired child. Miss Gwen Hamilton Mar-
shall, shines out from one ivory, and others—as,
for instance, that of Edmund Barton and consort
—are equally artistic and true to the originals.
Who is Miss Oscaa Marah, the “new Aus-
tralian operatic soprano,” who has appeared at
the Bechstein Hall with conspicuous success?
Her portrait shows a very thin girl with an un-
common type of face, and her back-tilted hat has
a lot of ostrich spoil on it.
Pure white convolvuli massed upon a purple
chip hat is said by an English paper to be
fashion’s latest scream in millinery. A few such
have brightened the already bright streets of
Sydney, so some Sydneysiders are in the latest
shriek of style. There is a rage for white and
purple in combination.
Conan Doyle, who invented Sherlock Holmes
and other persons, is to be married to a Miss
Jean Leckie —which sounds Scotch and capable.
Mr. Chester Fentress, the tenor of Shipman’s
Marie Narelle co., is to lift his sweet voice at
“ Pennydom,” one of Shipman’s enterprises in
Pitt-street and Newtown. A tenor voice of some
note is a valuable asset. Fentress wasoffered £2O
a week by Ramaciotti for comic opera work, and
said “No.” And in one year he has put £lOOO in
his wallet from the Narelle tour.
Time was when he who arrived in these
waters from foreign parts on a yacht was
forthwith a social star. Now. however, as a result
of recent happenings, persons importing them-
selves hither on any vessel more ornate than a
mere common lugger are viewed with covert sus-
picion, if not open dislike. First carne along a
Yankee navigator with a gorgeous craft, which he
said was his, but which somebody else accused
him of stealing, and which was ultimately im-
pounded for debt by a third party, under a sort of
marine judgment or garnishee order. Said person
extended the “glad hand” to all and sundry
immediately upon his arrival, and whoever
grasped the same went down financially with
a violent bump, in connection with some
shares or mines the nautical one knew
about. Since then yachting Yankees have been
“off.” Next arrived the bold, bad baronet,
with the long, complicated name that in itself
read like a citation in divorce; also someone else's
wife. As a result of his antics, the sea-faring
baronet, regarded as a social commodity, has
descended to the level of “spiff” goods. And
now we have the Lever Bros., a troup of society
knock-about artists apparently, who, within the
shortest possible space of time after seeing their
good ship Mavis berthed in the’arbor, were ashore
basiling barmaids and hurling around public-
house crockery. It is a curious fact that, barring
the hust marriage-tie yarn and one or two other
things, almost every disreputable circumstance
N.S. VV. has known in recent years has arrived in
a yacht.
The Todgere worm turns. The hash-house
ladies of Broken Hill have formed a union, and
henceforth the minimum price of board and lodg-
ing is to be one pound per week.
A brilliantined young sheep and cattle owne
now in Sydney says that the next time he brings
a parcel to town without knowing its contents and
destination he hopes his friends will put him in
Callan Park, or some similar receptacle. In his
State there is a second Tyson—on a smaller scale
as to wealth, but equally economical. Ho gave
the Brilliantined One a brown paper packet,
and asked him to deliver it at the address
pencilled on it, and later to bring it back
with him, which seemed a curious compli-
cation of events. The 8.0. always hansorned
alxmfc his business and pleasure here, and one
morning he told his cabby to drive to the brown
paper address. It was in the recesses of Surry
Hills, and the place was a little working tailor’s
shop. The tailor opened the parcel, and then
spoke in a pathetic voice : “ I’ve put fresh seats
on these pants three times, sir. They won’t
stand a fourth patching.”
The wife of one of the Premiers, lately returned
from London, commented on the “well-dressing”
of the King. She said that his fatness and short-
ness were scarcely noticeable, owing to the per-
fection and cunning cut and fit of his clothes.
Looking at one of the latest London papers 1 see
that his Maj. has made some change in the fashion
of his coat lapel, and the fact is discussed
reverentially. The coat is of the frock brand, and
has very wide lapels of silk, the points of which
are b.ought down almost to the place where the
Monarch condescends to wear his waist. He ad-
heres to the fashion of side creases to his trousers.
Also the crown of his honorable silk hat has, I
believe, an altitude of GJ inches.
The amazing Mr. George Pook, of Kyneton
(Vic.), has his portrait and his Pook-lmnting in
the illustrated two a-penny English press. He
brought inherited money—said to be £3OOO and
also said to he £30,000 —to divide amongst needy
relatives of the Spook or Pook variety. Quite
a swarm replied to advertisements, and over
afternoon tea he addressed to them a homily,
dwelling on their joint descent from King Alfred,
and begging them to live up to their great lineage.
Then he distributed silver, gold, and cheques
amongst them, hut it would seem that there was
less money than people supposed, and it had to
go around among far more rooks than might have
been expected.
A picture post-card drops in from Mrs. William-
son, at Marseilles. The writer didn’t go to Paris,
because that city was hot and getting empty.
•T.C. W. went, and spent two days with the Frank
Gardners. Mrs. J.O. VV. and the two girls moved
on to London ahead of him, and pitched a tem-
porary tent at the Savoy.
My Brisbane correspondent writes:—
Government House —or part of it—has returned from
the Toowoomba Show. The rest of it—that is, sister
and hubby, and the Du Cane—have gone to end the
week at Harrow, with the Ramsays, and see a little
station life. His Weariness bucked up sufficiently on
Friday night to attend the Military and Naval Ball,
where the Challenger men polkaed with the local
maidens, and there were sufficient partners and supper
to go round.
Yesterday and to-day the hayseeds, with bundles in-
numerable, are coming to town. The bocal Authorities
Conference is sitting, and the streets are dotted with
aldermen and divisional board persons, mostly, as
Ambrosine sad, “ the wrong shape." These able-bodied
sons of the soil are to be received by Mr. and Mrs. Ex. on
Monday amid the roses on the tennis lawn—that is, lebon
Dieu and the weather permitting.
Bowling has been the rage tins week, and the gather-
ings on the various bowling-greens have been about as
ample and dowdv as a gathering of floursacks.
“ Wanted, a Governor for Queensland, an elementary
knowledge of the Lancers essential," is what I would like
to insert when next the vice-regal crib is vacant. Why
can’t the deputy of Edwardus Rexlobuiardance ? Not even
the wild enthusiasm of the new aide and the assistance of
a diminutive officer of the A.L.U. could induce his
Weariness to cling to the beaten track in the Naval and
Military official Lancers on Friday. He took everyone’s
advice in the first figure and no one's in the second, and
after three hopelessly wrong attempts in the grand chain
gave it up and retired with his partner on to the stage,
and let the rest fight it out. Only Captain Bridson, of
the Challenger, and our own Naval Com. Richardson
seemed to have the feeblest notion where to go next.
From “ Rosna ” in Adelaide :
Our little pet Lyric Club is on the verge of a heavy loss
through the departure of its hon. sec., Maurice Ralph.
Mr. Ralph has toiled for several years like an able-bodied
male white citizen and a fraternal relative on behalf of
the club, and under his charge the membership went up
with such a leap that its head struck the ceiling, where the
mark remains even unto this day. In fact, the Lyric
grew so large that the subscription was raised and a
limit fixed to the number of members admitted. It was
fe t that if everybody belonged to the club it would have
to meet in the Park Lands. The Lyric will probably hare
a wild time trying to find a new secretary of anything
like the same quality.. To manage n institution con-
taining some 250 feminines, and to be popular with the
whole crowd to the end, is a feat deserving of fame in
song and story.
The Lyric achieved its record attendance on Wednesday
night (7th), when it entertained the Canadian lacrosse
brethren. A programme of melody was arranged by Miss
Lilian Davis, and all the people whose existence is a com-
pliment to the earth put on their best chiffons, and
went to do the visitors honor. There wasn’t standing
room anywhere, and all the window-sills and door-
ways were packed tight with hordes of nice girls,
and a good sprinkling of men. The drawing-room was
a bower of vegetation in the Canadian colors, and the
supper table was besprinkled with ribbons of the same,
which the visitors carried off as trophies, and distrib-
uted among the girly element.
The Handyside sisters are the latest inventors in the
way of novel entertainment. They are the possessors of
a jolly little flat on North Terrace, and here they
gathered in their friends to a coon contest, t'other even-
ing. The majority of the guests were unrecognisable in
their black expressions. It was decreed that the two
males adjudged equal in the matter of costume should
cakewalk for the prize.
Albani, with the aid of the local Choral Society, has
been busy warbling for the Adelaide public. One night
the partnership committed “ Elijah ” (no relation to the
Zion person with the Purple Wings who died using violent
language in Mexico or thereabouts), and two others
were devoted to ordinary barnyard programmes. (“ Barn-
yard ’’ is merely a figure of speech, and no reflection on
the music is intended. It was very good music, and it
drew good audiences that went home in a good temper
afterwards.) Their energetic Excellencies went to all
three concerts. They lend an ear to all concerts of any
note. Albani was showered with acclamation, and the
flora of the State was aimed at her.
There are mighty preparations going on this week for
the Adelaide Exhibition of Women’s Work. The thing is
to be opened on August 17, in the presence of most of the
horde of the State, and all the grandees of Adelaide and
the hidalgos of Walkerville and Hindmarsh. It threatens
to b• a very gorgeous spectacle. Last week the Excel-
lent Northcotes passed through Adelaide on their way
towards Westralia, and were carried off to Government
House to shake what the local committee lifts things
with. They are to view the show on the return journey.
The latest topic of conversation is the marriage of a
handsome widow to a man two years older than her son.
Neither of the delinquents can boast many shekels, there-
fore the affair is a surprise to society, which expected the
lad v to marry someone with a private yacht and other
sordid but agreeable encumbrances. Society doesn’t
appreciate the picturesque love-in-a-beehive aspect of a
romance.
R i.vmond Wilton, the brilliant Adelaide youth whose
at Cambridge have shaken up this peaceful com-
mun.t.v, has pursued another scholarship to its nest in
the higher branches, and captured it with Hying colors.
The present victory is worth £6O a year, and makes the
fourth within a month. Young Wiiton must now have
nearly enough diplomas, medals and trophies to pave
London.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Why shouldn’t beautiful women bo always
beautiful ? Sho has the desire—that is certain, and just
ascertain is it that she has the means. You’re not so
sure of that? Well, then, you haven’t used Valnze. Yes, yes,
Valaze only makes the Complexion beautiful—but what
more does Beauty require ? A soft, clear skin, smooth to
the touch, and fresh to look upon—and wherefore sigh,
O Ladies? Nature gave you this in youth and early girl-
hood—Valaze preserves it long into the years. Therefore,
Vive Valaze!—use Valaze, and your complexion will be
like unto the lily, fair, bright, and beautiful. Those
nasty, creeping wrinkles, those insinuating crowsfcet
that gather at the eye corners—they fly before Valaze.
Just get a jar yourself and try—you’ll know then how it
is so many elderly women of your acquaintance seem to
simply defy Time. Valaze—that’s all. Valaze is sold by
chemists everywhere at 3s. Od. and 6s. jar, or posted (Sa.
extra, from Mile. H. Itubinstein and Co., 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne, or 168 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
The State Rights people have made con-
siderable fuss over the prospective loss of their
insects owing to Federal quarantine. The Aus-
tralian Government proposed to take over the
whole caboodle —the guarding of the ports from
the influx of diseased persons, diseased cattle,
diseased fruits, fruit and vegetable pests, etc.,
and the quarantine of districts infected with
epidemics among humans and the lower animals,
or pervaded with dangerous fruit pests. The
State Frights people admit that if some devas-
tating caterpillar spreads across fbe border from
one State to another, the central authority must
deal with it, but, so lonp as the caterpillar keeps
in one State, they want it to be a State caterpillar
with a special State authority to run after it. It
would mean two authorities, of course, but then
the State wouldn’t lose its caterpillar.
The broken-hearted remarks of certain
Sydney business persons about how the new tariff
will allegedly “increase the price to the worker”
set one pondering. These individuals say the
tariff won’t make any difference to them ; they
will just pass the extra cost on to the consumer.
Therefore it is disinterested grief about the con-
sumer that is gnawing at them like the vulture
having a snack off Prometheus. Yet some of these
creatures have been publicly convicted of paying
the consumer from nothing up to 2s. 6d. a week—
the young she-consumer, who requires victuals to
enable her to grow into a healthy, bouncing and
perhaps noisy citizeness who will'be physically
qualified to help along tlie birthrate that these
business persons are also worried about. Almost
we can see the signboard in our mind’s eye:
“ Mawworm, importer.”
The Amending Factories Bill, which the
Bent Cabinet is about to introduce, will contain,
besides the abolition of the “ reputable employer ”
hypocrisy, provisions for extending the Wages
Board system to bricklayers and shop employees ;
also to carters and drivers, about the most
sweated people in the Cabbage Garden. To make
up for that, and as a peace-offering to Fat, the
measure proposes to give the Minister of Labor
power to issue permits to “small shops” to keep
open an hour or so after their larger competitors
close. The House of Fat professes an abiding
love for the lone widow who keeps a small shop
in a quiet street, and the Bent Cabinet shows a
lot of cunning in handing her over as a peace-
offering.
Thirty-five years ago John Forrest set
out from the West for the overland telegraph line
in S. A., and earned from Governor Weld the title
of “Last of the Great Australian Explorers.”
For that exploit the Imperial Government made
him a grant of 5000 acres of cultivable land ; he
was awarded the gold medal of the Royal Geo-
graphical Society, was created a Chevalier of the
Order of the Crown of Italy, and an Honorary
Feljow of the Italian Imperial Geographical
Society. Austria and Russia also honored him.
After that the world went well with him, and
things came his way till William Lvne got tired.
Then William looked down the side of his long
dreary-looking nose at John, and John went out.’
There is a sturdily upright young female
person cavorting round Wagga ip the
interests of the Carruthers Deform party. The
following is a sample of her oratory :
She had noticed that the leaders of most Labor league
branches were the men who drank the most, and their
only inducement to support nationalisation was that thev
had an idea they would get a better quality drink and
at the same time, a stronger one, which would only'make
them drunker. J
Carruthers’ Deform female seems to travel on one
simple idea, which is that where the Labor men
are concerned the ordinary rules of truth, decency
and good breeding are suspended, and that any-
thing in the way of fish-fag and Billinsgate tactics
is not only allowable, but commendable. \ n d
this will probably go on till some day a prominent
Deformer becomes too specific in her slanders, and
an action for criminal libel surprises her into a
knowledge that even a political opponent has
rights.
Hint to Travellers.—Dr. George H. R
Dabbs, M.D., writing in the London Echo, says* 11 r
Will never go abroad again without some • Cerebos • Salt
Ido not like continental salt. And besides, the *CereW
Salt, with its mixed phosphates, is the best table salt
ever placedonany market anywhere, and ought to be
used far and wide. It replaces the wasted phosphates of
cookery in the bran of wheat, the bones of aninials and
by boiling vegetables, and is, moreover, far’ less
deliquescent than any other form of salt known to me I
know this is an advance on the general scientific opinion
of much more eminent dieticians than I can lay cliiin tn
be, but it is my opinion, and so I state it.”* °
Hfc// As'
VINTAGE
1900.
VP
CHAMPftfiNE
Has the Royal Warrant of
H.M. King Edward VII.
*
FA CILE PRINCEPS
Buchanan’s
SEMPER IDEM
By Royal Warrants of Appoint-
ment to His Majesty The Kino-
andH.R.H. The Prince of Wales'
"Black & White” Whisky


MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 12, 1907.
My Dear Yarrik,—
Miss Eugenia Stone—“ Tryphena,” of The
Bulletin—is to be married in London on Thurs-
day—the day when this paper sees the light. J.
C._ Williamson will act as temporal'}" father to the
bride, and guide her faltering steps to the altar.
This hamlet is prolific of new feminine types,
mostly of a matronly shape. First the Wimmen’s
League produced a queer anomaly, who talked
slanderous personalities and bad politics in the
same orris-laden breath, and eschewed scarlet be-
cause it reeked of “ horrid Socialism ” and
made her look like a peripatetic bush-fire.
Now we have the Wimmen’s Exhibition lady.
Too often she’s a selfish dame, who tries to buy
Irish crochet from damaged gentlewomen for the
price she’d pay a wholesale house for a length of
shoddy torchon. But she talks without end—in
trams, trains, tearooms, theatres, and those homes
whose purity is guarded by Grace Watson’s
League—of “Our Exhibition.” She discourses
lengthily upon catmittees, applied art, what she’ll
wear on opening day, those deah women workers,
and—inevitably—of how “ Deah Lady Northcote,
my deah, said to .me, ‘Oh ! Mrs. Aspiring-
Suburbia, realiy you are so marvellously good and
energetic !’ ” The W.E. type isn’t as vicious as
the vehement patroness of the movement to pre-
vent the Breakage of the Home, nor is she so
frequent; but her hope that Sassiety will clasp
her to its sequined buzzom, and her disinterested
efforts on behalf of Australian women workers,
are mixed in such disproportions, that the more
honest promotoress thanks Heaven for the leaven-
ing of business-like males in the scheme.
Mrs. Maesmore Morris (as was) has presented
her latest lord with an antidote for his wander-
lust in the form of a girl baby. The small female
who disjoints son Colin’s schoolboy nose is to be
christened, this month, with much ceremony ; and
will have something semi-royal and super-smart
in the way of sponsors. A while ago, husband
McDonald Sutor, R.N.R., was on the point of
sailing down to the sea again in his old capacity
as a F. and O. officer. The baby may, or may
not, deter him from the trip. Babies are uncertain
influences, and their hours of sleep are irregular.
Mis. St. Leger Robertson enters the complex
state of grass-widowhood this week. Her man-o’-
war goes off for a period of service in the lurid
Punjaub, while she and the toddling family of one
remain behind. Mrs. Robertson will spend her
complimentary-mourning time ensconced in the
Rupert Clarke flat, until its proprietor and
daughter Phyllis arrive. Then she commences
the task of chaperoning that interesting demoiselle.
An Australienne’s latest letter from Thames’s
coral strand announced that no fewer than three
wattle-buds were to be presented at the latest
Drawing-room by their respective mammas —Miss
Emmerton, Phyllis Clarke, and Vera Dyce Mur-
phy. The Murphy colleen was to fill an ecstasy
of white tulle, with exotic fixings. Poetic Miss
Phyllis was to be a snowy, guileless foil to the
maternal glory ; and Emmerton, mother and
daughter, were to go through their paces in pearl-
palesatins from the atelier Doucet.
The Mitchell clan and the T. A. Patersons are
pleasantly perturbed at the near approach of
tempestuous Melba. There is only a month
to wait before she begins to illumine this
country with her gorgeous freaks and her stunning
personality. Her arrangements concerning her
Victorian domicile she made herself, in London.
It is rumored that unexpected sentiment brings
the diva and her daughter-in-law to Australia,
and that “ Ercildoun ” is to be somewhat distin-
guished. By the way, the Wilson estate cele-
brates the birthplace of the only poet that ever
occurred in the Learmonth family—a gentleman
known as “Tarnmas the Rhymer,” who wrote
topical jingle a decade or two before King Bruce
learnt points from a philosophic spider.
“Tryphena,” from London:—
The flashing of all the noted diamonds of May-
fair from three tiers of upholstered pens at Covent
Garden marked the last night of the Melba-Carnso
season on Tuesday. The Diva’s habit of caprice
and petulance kept the glittering crowd guessing till
curtain-rise, and the odds as to whether she would
appear or not were about as even as odds could well be.
But the billed cast of “ La Bohgme” came off, and Melba
sang the angel notes of Miini outside the door of the
artist’s den. The Melba—caprice, temper and all—is be-
loved for her incomparable top C, and Bark Lane could
whip her when she disappoints. It was a fatter
Melba this night, with an extension of cheek and
a threatening of double chin. In fact, the face,
whether from an injudicious make-up or increas-
ing plumpness, has completely altered in expression.
But there was no fat in the vocal chords; no
diminution of purity and sweetness in the melody
that poured from the throat of the dying Miini. That
great barbaricall.v-ornamented muster of noble wealth
and Hoggenheimer millions sat as one soul intently
hearkening to the soarings of the most royal voice in the
kingdom of music. When Caruso balanced his notes
against Melba’s the soul of that audience fluttered. In
the wintry street, the perishing Miini and her beloved in
a passion of pain and tenderness, drew together, and,
with arms enfolded, sobbed out the heart-rending
“ Boh&me ” aria. The gorgeous art of the dominant
Nellie triumphed to a consumptive conclusion.
Princesses sat in the Royal pen—just simple, sweet
young arum lily persons with clear skin and an air of i x-
cellent conscience and digestion. In the same tier lolled
large diamond-bespattered duchesses, while good-figured
Honorables and flirtatious Miladies leaned over the box
edges gleaming on the chaired crowd. An interesting
night, with Caruso in his glory and Melba good-tempered.
Melba soars back to Bushland this month. London
doesn’t understand why, and doesn’t ask. No one dares
ask Melba things. Her pal—Mrs. Mason—takes passage
with. her. Mrs. Mason is a sister of Miss Nannie Bennett,
the mummer who toured out a year or two ago with the
“ Sweet Nell” co., and discovered that she held kinship
with the Surgeon O’ Haras.
The absentee Dame of Rupertswood shed her grey
habiliments of woe for the final Court at Buckingham
Palace, and radiated in orchid tonings. The daughter’s
introductory bob to Mayfair was alleged as the impera-
tive demand of the hour. Phyllis could never have
long-skirted in ’Rooland with daddie had she not
been presented. Not that the sombre Phyllis cared a
jot. Her hobby is the grey-goose quill, and she’s at pre-
sent spending the grey hours of her Park Lane mornings
scrawling her fancies into novel form. Her second effort
at authorship should be—if the Phyllis air of plaintive
thoughtfulness counts for anything—an advancement on
the schoolgirl tone of the lirst. The romantic Miss
has had a whole gay year with Mania in the
whirligig, and some of the greatest dudes and many of
the bluest-veined dandies and dames of Mayfair have
passed under her thoughtful regard.
The Andrew Chirnsides are (lashing round something
considerable. I’ve seen the woolly marm toot-tooting
through Hyde Park in the latest Regent-street rig, and
at present Andrew himself has a rally of Big Smoke and
’Rooland sports with him in a Northern shooting-box.
The adopted infant travels with the pair, and is doted
upon just the same as ever. Lucky kid ! Why aren’t we
adopted by rich couples late in life? What is the fas-
cination of a swaddling-clothes pet?
The other morn when the July summer was more of a
farce than usual, and a cold, drab rain trickled from
a still drabber sky, J. C. Williamson struggled in
the Savoy Hotel against a stream of mummers,
old and new, who pressed their pasteboards, plus a tip, on
Buttons (a regiment of Buttons), and urged a heart-to-
heart talk. But J.C.W. ambushed himself behind his
secretary and a huge basket of communications, and hud
the stream turned fr m its course. Letters by the shoal
and callers by the hundred cry for engagements, and
J.C.W. blinks his eyes tiredly—for he fights the ’flu’ —at
the reams of press-cuttings that tell him the triumphs
achieved by each desirous star. Meanwhile his wife lias
selected a smart flat for the family at Hanover House,
Regent’s Park—within coo-ee of Lord’s. There J.C.W.
hopes to barricade himself against the hungry swarm of
foot light Micawbers till he sails for America.
The Colonel Outtrims have deposited their son at Paris
with Bouhy, under whose tuition they hope his notes
will round and mellow and multiply, perchance, for
comic opera purposes. This on the Williamson advice,
after the two seasons during which Cyril (such a perfect
name for a blue-eyed footlighter !) raised his baritone
chirp in Melbourne.
The Australian-Canadian lacrosse match on
Saturday was an event of size. Lacrosse is a
toney game, and the players are just It—hut it
beats football, hands down, when it comes to a
scrimmage. On Saturday play became quite
heated. There was an argument on the field
between opponents, and the Canadian dropped
all his nice polished courtesy and bashed the Aus-
tralian over the head with his net pole (perhaps
to force the point that he should wear a padded
cap). The Australian was no further use that
day. The goal umpire interfered, and the Cana-
dian went for him, hot-headed. Then there was
a fight that made the Enclosure yell and the
Grandstand faint—one wild whirl of Australian
green-and-gold and Canadian purple.
The lately Mrs. Ullathorne, whom a Papal decree
and the presiding Judge in the disentangling
department permitted to become Mrs. “Oruba”
Plunkett, is the proud possessor of a new bassi-
nette and a long-clothed Master P. to fill it. It
doesn’t seem so long ago that the dame was a
comely Miss Dunn. Neither the years nor two
matrimonial ventures have warped her charm.
But Mrs. Plunkett’s first matrimony was’ the
merest shadow of an alliance, anyhow.
One hears of our Hereditary Aristocrat' buzzing
round Babylonian places of public entertainment
what time he isn’t playing the unfamiliar r6le of
housefather in Park Lane. Rupert is by way of
organising an operatic menagerie (that offensive
word is inspired by Wagnerian memories!), which
will be available for criticism within the year.
Our Hereditary One’s laudable appreciation of
nimble understandings and sirenesque voices
should compass a wise selection.
The advent of Clara Butt, and Mr. Butt, and
all the little Butts, is likely to prove an expensive
pleasure for those music-lovers who really must
hear the lath’s towering voice from front seats.
The Tait triumvirate talks of a toll-rate graduating
from a guinea to a moderate ss. “ But Clara
isn’t an artist; she's only a voice,” declare the
economical. And really one isn’t charged as
much at an all-stars’ orgy of perfect music at the
Queen’s Hall. Clara is too respectable to have
an aureole of romance, and so many people are
principally attracted by a song-bird’s tempera-
ment, or the story of her six previous husbands,
that it’s just possible the gigantic prodigy
might freeze in the cold atmosphere of that great
financial elevation.
Re the successful debut in London of stately
Beatrice Miranda, the damsel of the definite eye-
brows, it appears that her sister Lalla is making
arrangements with agents, who propose to keep
the debutante at concert work for a while. Mrs.
Slapoffski comments upon the scanty knowledge
we have of Miss Lalla, and the little store we set
upon her as a representative gum-bough. Mrs.
Slap, affirms that there aren’t half-a-dozen
sopranos in Europe who occupy as high a
step on the operatic stair as Lalla, and none of
’em is more popular or pleasing.
Says Edgar Saltus : “In Biblical days those
ladies who neglected the proprieties were stoned.
They are still; but the stones come from Kim-
berley.”
The Dickens Fellowship had a field night on
Monday, when the stars of the “ Boz ” coterie
expounded their views on Bill Sikes and some
less familiar characters who figure in “Oliver
Twist.” The most remarkable feature of the
D. F. (apart from the likeness of some fellows and
fellowesses to their hero’s creations) is its motto,
“To spread the love of humanity”; which is a
rather ambitious task for a collection of dilet-
tantes who meet once a month. This special
evening brought forth a peculiarly apt paper, by
Miss E. Frazer, upon “ Mrs. Corney.” Miss
Fraser showed an appreciation of that fierce
female which is unusual. A little o’d gentleman
made reference to the “ immortal sausages ”
cooked by Fagin. And so the meeting wandered
on, for the most part without the merciful humor
of the Master projecting itself into the criticisms
of his writing. The Fellowship will have an out-
break early next month, when it will go to the
Masonic Hall clad in Dickensian costumes, and
permit the general public to pay a small price for
the privilege of gazing upon it and its clothes.
One of Melbourne’s curious personalities has
“bached” it in the sinuous curves of the outer-
suburban river ever since his- grey-haired and
dignified wife sought grass-widowhood in a neigh-
boring State. Now there are rumors of a lengthy
trip to Armenia, or some other Asiatic district.
Color is given to the story by the fact that the
“bacher” is selling his wonderful collection of
brass and copper. Wonderful pieces of copper —
Spanish vessels of great age—have been perched
against the drake-green background of the walls
of a swagger tea-shop, and have gone off (regard-
less of guineas) like the hot cakes that the mock
Dutch waitresses serve for sixpence.
The South Melbourne Cricket Club made a big
and expensive bid for a swagger ball last week,
but the people it wanted were shy of being
lured to an out-of-the-way hall, even with the
Chief Justice as a bait. Boor genial old Chief!
He dances about from one ball to another as
though he were sentenced to work out his salva-
tion by affecting to enjoy the situation. The
sports boys elaborated the question of supper
to something quite aesthetic. South Mel-
bourne Town Hall has a particularly wide
balcony,and this wasdivided by arehesani theatri-
cal scenic decorations into cosy corners, with
chairs and sheltering palms, and other surround-
ings conducive to the kissing of the sitter-out.
’Varsity boys will be hosts at an elaborate hop
in Prahran Town Hall on 22nd August. It should
be a sort of consolation night for our dancing
maids and matrons, after a menu of more staid
festivities. For the students are always ready to
caper—and on such occasions as this they caper
very gracefully. The youths hope to make their
ball an annual fixture.
The Ice Rink laid itself out for a frivolous time
on Wednesday night. A Bal Masque was the
order of the carnival hours. All the peoole who
think themselves best, and a modicum of those
poor souls who are content to be second-best,
turned up to slither thro’ a mazy whirl. A few
experts danced, but the majority merely skated.
There was nothing fantastic about the frivol;
actually the flirtations were quiet. Somehow, one
would wish that the Rinkers were not quite so
superlatively proper, even when they’re masked.
After unmasking time, lights blazed bravely as
they did in Belgium before Waterloo, and
supper tables were rushed. The Madden
datne came late with an aide, but the lean
Vallatige and his plump wife (she skims on
skates like a duck on the watery highway),
and Leslie of the snow-striped hair, saw the frivol
through from the opening. Brother Guy, huge
and beaming, rolled about in a wide scarlet
domino.
There was a quiet wedding last week. One of
the last of the Daylesford Wheeler maidens
married Arthur Hargreaves, a Maorilander of
heavy importance in a wealthy timber combine.
Since the recent death of Mr. Wheeler, the
Daylesford place and the Riverina station have
been in managers’ hands, and the two younger
daughters have been wandering abroad. Nellie
Wheeler—now Mrs. Hargreaves—was the curly-
haired and adored companion of old Mrs. Junor
Browne, the mother of our Mrs. Alfred Deakin.
The honeymooners go to the Islands before flying
home to Maori land.
The Women’s Hospital fund and the charitable
feelings of the musical members of the Softgoods
Club are responsible for a forthcoming production
of “The Mikado.” The chief offenders will be
that pleasant troubadour, W. E. Lewis, also
Frank Wicks and Edgar Marsden, which last
will play Nanki-Poo. Everyone concerned is
working like a coal-lumper or an ant at rehearsals
and ticket-sales.
A few well-known amateurs intend to brave
criticism in Haddon Chambers’s “Tyranny of
Tears,” for a lengthy season of one night, at Her
Majesty’s, on the 30th. This will be in aid of the
Queen Victoria Hospital for Women and Children.
Influential support is promised, and, unless the
public demands its money back at the doors, the
affair should be a financial success. Harry Hill,
of B. and B. experience, is directing affairs, so
the chances are that the audience will go away
contented with what it has got for its outlay.
A Frank Grey Smith lass is to alter the dress-
ing of her hair in a few days, and be launched on
the social sea. A long course of academic train-
ing has made her a sort of a baa-lamb, with a
bas-bleu.
Miss “Fluffy” (otherwise Grace) Rees took
unto herself a handsome husband the other day.
The willing captive is a Mr. Fox, a Maorilander,
who was domiciled in England until he came
back to his native islands recently, in charge of a
British cricket team, or something else in the
field-game line. Mrs. Fox remains'in the comic
opera company for a time, as the comely hus-
bandlet is returning to the Respectable Country
to collect something saleable—a fortune or some
such trifle—which awaits him there. The way
the nimble soubrette got gathered into the sober
state of matrimony was immensely casual. She
and the adorer strayed into a Sydney church one
morning, were married, and then sauntered on
to the theatre, where the bride had a 10.30 call
to rehearsal, and the groom was left outside to
consider his position and wire the news to his
wife’s mother.
This year there is quite a lot of ermine about,
The unreal is difficult to know from the real, if
the imitation be a good one and the wearer has
an expensive look. One of Melbourne's belles is
just now the envy of most women. She has the
smartest of smart short coats of ermine and the
very daintiest cap en suite. The effect when these
goods are worn, as they often are, with a lavender
frieze skirt is stunning.
Yours affectionately,
JOHNANA.
Wbat the tricky Monkey’s “open-door”
policy in Korea really amounts to can be summed
up from the fact that the latest returns show that
all but one British and one German firm have
now been squeezed out of the country. Japan
opened the door all right and smiled at the en-
trance; but it jiu-jitsued everybody who put the
smallest trust in its word or its smile and stepped
over the threshold.
CUPID FOILED.
Ugly Excessive FAT
Makes life a burden and a living misery. Let us treat you
for a few weeks, and we will reduce your weight to normal.
As much as five pounds a week safely and permanently re-
moved with no ill after effects, and gone never to return.
“FATCURE”
reduces rapidly and permanently, and
improves the general health in every
way. Send or call for full particulars.
SEND 3d., and let us send you a FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
THE WAT WORTH CO.,
SUITE J, Castlereagti St, Sydney.
Entrance also from Market St.
Enclose postage or coin for 3d,
and we will send Free Trial in
closed wrapper and full par-
ticulars. Call if possible.
& H
mm
•llili-:;;;. UiifllillllllllllHlllHtii
/n
iplttki
W* HHBsaa,
mg r fetani
!:::: ' \ - Mtllllilliifd! Hill P
pertmi.
Goods
Represent the Highest Quality
of material and workmanship in
Golf, Tennis, and Bat
Handle Grips,
Golf Bails,
Football and Punching’
Ball Bladders,
Rubber Soles, Waders,
etc.
Obtainable all Leading Sports Depots.
Accept only “ Dunlop Brand.’*
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
*
y
±'J
%
!/ ,
/
w
'A
f
THE
OLD
STYLE
TrucKlnj on Mines ts now being
superseded by the use of Conveyor
Belts, in respect of which we desire
to correspond with Mine Managers.
[LOP
CONVEYOR BUTS
are now used with great success by
the leading mines in. Australasia.
They' outwear the imported Belts,
and are cheaper. Made endless and
any width up to 4 feet.
SAMPLES AND TENDERS SUBMITTED.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, AiKlaide, Pcrtlr, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
ts>
RL
vv-
<
43
nSOMETOING- Gvite-nelw-
a?.?"
WORLDS]
' m
L -V . •; i ; iX


Of National Importance.
The owner of the biggest business in this hemi-
sphere is Samuel Hordern. He is Australian-
born, the son of Australian parents, and father of
Australian children. He lives here, his interests
are here, and he proposes to keep them here. At
a time when our anti-Australians averred that,
owing to Federation, the Commonwealth was
losing capital and credit, and had come to
be regarded in solid business circles as a
financial wild cat among the nations, Hor-
dern gave these people the lie by sinking
£300,000 in a new shop. At a time when
the same party of disloyalists were imploring the
outside world to believe that no sane human
being should, or would dream of opening
so much as a tinpot store or factory in
a country so discredited as their own,
Hordern set to and built, within one year,
the largest commercial establishment of a uniform
system of architecture the world has ever seen.
To the school which argued that no good could
come out of Australia, Hordern, though himself
weaned on the traditions of the importer, made
reply by putting into his now building every
atom of material procurable in Australia. Where-
fore, from ceilings, show-cases, and the like in
the Emporium, to the mighty 250-li.p. engine
which generates the electric light power for one
of the main factory buildings, we get samples
everywhere of every type of iocally-made article.
• • * •
A general delusion in regard to Hordern’s is that
the place is a shop merely. The normal passer-
by sees the great grey mass on Brickfield-hill,
and thinks that, with its contents, is all there is
to see. .As a fact, Hordern’s factories have so
grown since the Federation that they now cover
a far greater area than does the shop itself; and
more hands are employed now in the factories
than in the shop. At the present moment there
are 400 men and women working in the clothing
factory alone. They absorb £30,000 in wages,
and turn out 170,000 garments every year. It is
the claim of the manager here that the man does
not live whom he will not fit from his stock. G.
H. Reid once visited him. It was a tough pro-
position, but they fitted the bulky politician ulti-
mately ; the size in coats being OJ, while that in
trousers was undisclosed. A notable achievement
the affair has been considered ever since in the
trade.
* • • *
Half a mile away lies the furniture factory,
where another three or four hundred white
workers find employment at white men’s wages.
(And it is worth noting right here that in all the
long roll of Anthony Hordern and Sons’ employees
the name of no “ colored person " appears.) Here
our beautiful Australian woods—beech, maple,
rosewood, cedar and blackwood, and New
Zealand kauri pine go screaming through
the circular, crosscut, band and swedge saws,
which whirr on all sides. Every sort of
woodwork is handled, from cigar boxes, picture-
frames and Venetian blinds, to icechests, Govern-
ment telephone bureaus and the heaviest of
cabinets. And near-by is the shop where the
upholstering and stuffing of newly-finished chairs
and sofas is undertaken. This is a section of the
Hordern enterprise which aims to supply, and
does supply, every item of household furniture in
use in Australia.
* • • •
The firm has its own marble and slate works.
From Borenore and Caloolee in the west of this
State come the finest red marbles in the world.
Australian white marble is not yet of the Italian
quality as regards color. This latter, say theexperts,
is a question of depth of deposits, and it will be
years before our quarrymen reach the immemorial
stone that carries the incomparable pure glow of
the white Carrara marble. In the meantime an
industry is growing up around the stone we have.
Mighty blocks, weighing tons in the rough,
are dealt with at Hordern’s Sydney factory.
Shapeless as mountain boulders, they face the
’ great power-driven frame saw, to leave the
polisher’s hands ultimately as tiles, baths, mantel-
pieces, or fluted columns.
» * • •
In the iron and brass foundry, which has already
begun to operate, with good results, on the Lithgow
ore, there are 3000 different articles of hardware
manufactured. Coppersmiths, enamellers, trunk
makers, lacquerers, stovemakers. zinc workers,
ironfounders, wire- workers, brass finishers, pattern
makers, and a score more do good work here ;
and of these it is cheering to know that a
round 80 per cent, are Australians of the first or
second generation. The raw pig iron is cast here,
and one can see within an area of 25,000 feet every
stage of the industry, from the depositing of the
ore in its melting cupola, to the point where it
appears again in the form of a four-post bedstead
or register grate. Brass-founding proceeds side
by side with the iron industry ; as does a tin
works, wherein the national billy looms largely and
in much profusion on all sides; while further
along is a wire-working section, where some
50,000 miles of wire go each year to the fashioning
of wire mattresses, cages, traps, and the like.
* • • «
All of which is separate and apart from
the, establishment that is best known to the
Australian public. One does not get any
just idea of tne scale on which business is done in
the shop proper by walking about its corridors.
To grasp something of this, it is better to stand
at the telephone exchange, watch its switch-
V>oard, and note that there are more Government
telephones (not to consider telephonettes) in this
one building alone than there are in the whole
of a town such as Orange; far more than in
all Katoomba ; and as many as Bulli, Lithgow,
and Singleton (say) can muster together. Or,
again, one should go into the cashier s room,
which all day from the moment Hordern’s doors
open till they close, receives a steady flood of
ready money along the 16 miles of pneumatic
tubes which wind about the building. And this
rain of cash represents but a small part of the
day’s takings. The close list, written up each
morning, of amounts taken by cheque for bank-
deposit purposes, is literally yards long.
* • « •
Pasted and hung about Hordern’s in all direc-
tions just now is an arresting notice. It says
“15 Acres of Bargains.” That takes the eye, and
the imagination. Each one has some standard of
comparison by which to appreciate the magnitude
of a business" institution capable of covering 15
acreswithmerchandi.se. It is the most effective
way the firm can sheet home that it is the biggest
thing in its line extant ? Perhaps. But
there are other equally striking instances that
might be used in this connection. Thus on one
floor alone—in what is known as the “ Manchester
and Dress Department ’’—Hordern’s do more busi-
ness than any other firm in Australia does in
all its departments. This is a fact that is almost
sensational when one reflects on the many big con-
cerns Australia has in addition to Hordern’s.
Goods leave the firm, not only for Sydney and its
suburbs, the up-country districts and the other
States of the Commonwealth, but for M.L.,
Ceylon, the Hebrides, Fiji, every civilised or semi-
civilised South Sea Island, the East (meaning
Asia), South Africa —aye, and freetrade England
herself. Waltham watches can be got cheaper at
the Palace Emporium than in the West End
of London, and Hordern’s have even sent
such things as pianos to the old country.
The name of the firm is as familiar to English-
speaking people in general as White ley’s, and
far more so than Harrod’s. One order from
abroad that arrived safely the other day was en-
closed in an unaddressed envelope on which the
famous picture-advertisement of the Emporium
had been pasted. Another from Ceylon was
directed to Hordern’s “ Big Shop.” A few weeks
ago the firm announced by a small par in The
Bulletin that to every sender of a penny stamp
they would forward, anywhere within the Com-
monwealth, a map of Australia. Demands for
maps began forthwith to flow in by the thousand.
Amongst them was one letter addressed simply
to “the people that give away maps for Id.’’
Just that and no more. The letter came straight
to the right place—and that in the midst of an
unholy clamor regarding the criminal stupidity
of our Federal postal authorities.
The keynote of Hordern’s, as it is to-day, is
absolute meticulous honesty in all things—no
favors being given, and none asked, but a “ fair
deal” between man and man. The “Bon
MarcliA” or “ Louvre,” in Paris, may give tea,
coffee, and soft drinks free to all and sundry, as a
trade attraction. Samuel Hordern does not
attempt to give away to his customers so much
as a glass of water. London business places
may hire bands, and charm the ear of the just
buyer and the unjust loiterer alike. This Sydney
firm will have nothing of the kind. Their plain
contention is that the cost of all such luxuries
must fall on the consumer in the end, and they
prefer rather to let the consumer have his goods
at bed-rock prices and pay for extras later (if he
feels he wants them) out of what he has saved.
• * • *
It was under the existing arrangement that a
stop was put once and for all to the bad old prac-
tice of the drapery business, that had become
well nigh traditional, whereby for 36in. width of
calico or what not, that had been paid for, the
customer was supplied with 35in. or 34in., or a
fraction thereof, and so on—a system of petty
dishonesty that extended throughout all the
ramifications of the trade. In Hordern’s, as it is
to-day, the object first and last is to give each
buyer value for his moneyas a pure matter of
scientific business. By a scheme of check and
organisation, which in years of close attention has
been brought near to perfection, waste and loss
are minimised. Though many millions of sales
take place annually over the counters, an elaborate
slip system makes it impossible for any consider-
able proportion of the goods to become mislaid
even. The precision with which this huge
machine works is one of the notable things
in a notable concern. In every business of
this type an amount must be written off
each day for articles stolen. In Hordern’s
nowadays the cracksman or petty thief that
can get away with much of value is welcome to
his takings. All of which is to the obvious ulti-
mate benefit of the bona-fide customer.
• • •
Figures convey little to the average mind, but
those who like figures may care to know that in the
“New Palace Emporium” as it stands to-day there
are over 10,000,000 Australian-burnt bricks, that
an acre of glass is needed to light the building, on
which 50,000 bags of cement have been used, and
which contains a mile of locally grown and hewn
timber lengths for each day of the year.
Hordern’s, with its gigantic interests, its thou-
sands of employees, and the immense sums it
brings to State and Commonwealth by way of
freight charges, taxes and postal dues, is an insti-
tution of national importance. That this enter-
prise, which gives employment to more white
workers than any other in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, should be controlled by Australians who
find Australia good enough to live in, despite
their wealth, that it should be organised by Aus-
tralian brains, and made possible as a business
proposition owing to solid Australian prosperity,
must give joy and comfort to those who hold
with the possibilities of this continent and its
people.
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an Order of the High Court
of Justice. Chancery Division, made in
the matter of the Estate of THEOPHILUS
TRIPE MARKE deceased and in an action of
Kite v. Marke and others 1904 M. 3233 the fol-
lowing inquiry was directed namely :
“ What nephews and nieces of the said Testator
(other than his niece Mrs. Newcombe) were living
at his decease and what nephews or nieces of the
said Testator predeceased him leaving any and
what children and whether any and which of the
said nephews and nieces who survived the said
Testator and the children of nephews and nieces
who predeceased him are still living and as to
such of the same nephews and nieces and children
of nephews and nieces as are dead who are their
respective legal personal representatives.” Notice
is hereby given that any persons claiming to be
entitled under the said Inquiry and particularly
any persons claiming to be sons or daughters of
Robert Marke (a brother of the said Testator) or
the children of such of the said sons and daughters
as predeceased the said Testator or the legal per-
sonal representatives of such of the same sons
and daughters and children of sons and daughters
as survived the said Testator but have since died
are by their Solicitors on or before the 15th day
of October 1907 to come in and prove their claims
at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Warrington and
Mr. Justice Parker at the Royal Courts of Justice
Strand London England or in default thereof
they will be peremptorily excluded from the
benefit of the said Order. Tuesday the 22nd day
of October 1907 at 11 of the clock in the forenoon
at the said Chambers is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated this 27th day ot June 1907
RICHD. WHITE,
Mastkb.
SHARPE, PARKER, PRITCHARDS,
BARHAM AND LAWFORD,
12 New Court, Carey Street,
London, England.
Agents for
KITE, BROOMHEAD AND KITE,
Taunton, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
Note. —The above-named Testator Theophilus
Tripe Marke resided at Staplenay in the Parish
of Pitminster in the County of Somerset and
died on the 4th January 1904.
The said Robert Marke was born on the 10th
July 1 SI7 and was the son of Robert Marke and
Elizabeth Marke Marke his wife who for many
\ cars resided at Pitmilister aforesaid.
The said Robert. Marke went to Australia
about 60 years ago and has not been heard of since
The Iron Industry.—No. II.
The Old Cry: “Why Don’t You Go and
Start It?”
When somebody in Parliament the other day
produced a vegetable of some sort that had been
grown in the Northern Territory, and remarked
that it was of great value, and said that Australia
ought to encourage people to go and grow the
vegetable whore it grow so well, a member who
thought he was saying the last word interjected—
“Thon why don’t they go and grow it?’’ Quite
a lot of people, when they are told that some
particular industry ought to be making monoy
for Australians, ask that same weary old question
—“Why don’t you go and make the money?”
There are two principal reasons why they don’t—
(l) Other people are interested in stopping
them from making the money, becauso they want
to make it themselves; (2) industry is mostly a
complex matter, and while it is getting into its
stride, it isn’t strong enough without Protection
to resist the attacks of the people who want to
destroy it. The iron industry is a case in point.
•*• ; v
This establishment of the iron industry isn’t
simply a question of picking up some iron ore,
and getting some coke, and possibly a few hand-
fuls of limestone, and dropping the mixture into
a pot, and lighting a fire under it. Almost every
iron ore in the world contains some impurities,
and the impurities vary even in the same deposit.
Also almost every impurity affects the product ih
a different way, and a combination of impurities
may produce quite unexpected results. If there
is a little too much phosphorus, then the iron is
brittle when cold. If there is a little too much
sulphur, it becomes brittle when hot, and cannot
be rolled. If copper is present, it may affect
the iron in much the same way as sulphur ;
and again it may not. The old ironmasters
would have rejected iron ore with copper
in it; the new ironmasters put it to the test
first, for copper, it is found, may in some
circumstances be an advantage. It proves over
again that with iron you can’t tell till you find out.
If there is too much silica —quartz or the like—
then the iron ore will probably cost too much for
fluxes. There are endless variations. The man,
therefore, who starts the iron industry must be
prepared to simply feel his way. At the outset,
nis work will be almost wholly experimental. He
will probably produce a good deal of stuff that
will be of poor or uncertain quality. If he dis-
cards it, it will add greatly to his costs. If he
puts it on the market—and he may do that some-
times without knowing its defects—he will
probably lose customers and injure his reputation.
Besides having to feel his way in the matter
of materials, he will have to rely largely
upon men who do not know their work. Little
modifications and adjustments that experienced
men would make witnout reference to anybody,
and as the most natural thing in the world, will
be neglected—the raw hands will not know that
the modifications are needed. So, even under the
most favorable circumstances, the early costs are
bound to be oppressive, and the early failures
numerous.
* # • •
That it always is so, and must be so, take the
case of the Australian coke industry as an illus-
tration. Fifteen years ago it was reported that
there was no coke produced in Australia fit for
use in silver-lead smelting. An appeal was
made to the Broken Hill companies to use the
N. S. Wales article. They replied that the
colonial coke contained 6 per cent, more ash than
the imported coke, that it was friable, that the
losses through abrasion in transport amounted to
as much as 9 per cent., and that in
general it was a thing to lie viewed
only with scorn or despair according to
the point of view of the man who happened to
be doing the viewing. That was in 1891, when
the imports of German and other coke into
N. S. Wales ran into 76,542 tons, valued at
£373.163, so that the stuff must have cost the smelt-
ing companies over £400,000 by the time it reached
the works. In the following year the output of
N. S. Wales coke was altogether only 7899 tons.
Then the Dibbs tariff arrived, and put a 10 per
cent, duty on coke. It wasn’t much, but, on
account of the heavy freight on foreign coke, it
turned the scale. The coke-makers soon found a
small market. As they went they improved,
until last year the output of coke in N. S. Wales
was 186,060 tons, and the imports were only 6104
tons—and probably the 6104 tons arrived because
it was a case of coke or nothing. But the prices
are as well worth noting as the quantities. In
1901, when the poor, harassed little Aus-
tralian coke works turned out goods that
were too dirty and too friable to compete with
the foreigner, the declared value of the foreign
coke, delivered at N. S. Wales ports, averaged
£4 17s. 6d. per ton. When the duty was put on,
the price of N. S. Wales coke should have gone
up, according to the theories of the Foreign-
traders, who always weep for the poor consumer.
But instead of going up, the price has moved
down and down, until last year the average value
of the 186,06*) tons was lls. lid. So the Aus-
tralian smelter pays to-day lls. lid. for what cost
him £4 17s. 6d. per ton in the days before Customs
protection had put the industry on its feet and
allowed it to make such improvements that
Australian coke ranks with any in the world. If
they tell us that all that is said about the iron
industry is mere speculation, we can, anyhow,
reply that there is no speculation about the coke
industry. There are the figures, plain and unmis-
takable, in the official records.
• * m ♦
And what has happened further in connection
with the coke business would inevitably happen
in connection with the iron industry. In 1892
the total coke imports into N. S. Wales, added
to the total N. 8. Wales production, amounted to
69,751 tons. In 1906, as shown up above, the
total N. 8. Wales production was 186,060 tons,
and a stray 6104 tons arrived from foreign ports.
Thus, in 14 years the consumption of coke has
increased almost threefold —naturally enough, of
course, considering that it cost £4 17s. 6d. per
ton to land coke in N. S. Wales in 1892, whereas
a better Australian article can be bought now at
the works for lls. lid. per ton. Consider what
this means to the miner alone. It has reduced
his smelting cost by something like 60 per cent.
While the foreigner was sweating the Aus-
tralian producer, because the Australian hadn’t
sense enough to make himself independent of
the foreigner, the Broken Hill mines _were
passing by ore which averaged less than £7 per
ton, whereas the Broken Hill Proprietary ig
satisfied to treat ore now out of which it can eet
3os. per ton. The reduction in the price of coke
which has followed on the establishment of the
business in N. 8. Wales, has in this way helped
to make it possible to profitably treat hundreds
of thousands of tons of ore which could not have
been looked at under the old conditions. If it
cost as much now as it did 1G or 18 years ago to
handle Broken Hill ores, it is certain, in fact,
that there would be no such place as Broken Hill
except upon the map. So one Australian in-
dustry has made other great Australian industries
not only possible, but both possible and highly
profitable. Broken Hill alone maintains, at thi-
mines and the smelters and other works, at least
70,000 Australians, good customers for Australian
food and clothing, and in their turn employing
perhaps 70,000 more Australians.
• • • *
For there is no other sort of population of go
much value to the “primary producer” (the man
whom tho Foreign-trader professes to bo so much
concerned about) as the industrial population—
such a population as that' maintained by Broken
Hill and its smelting works; and an iron industry
would create in .Australia another such population
of almost identical character. What its value to
the “primary producer*’ is 8. Australia could
tell. In itself a poor State, with vast areas of
wilderness and very small areas of garden. 8. Aus-
tralia has nevertheless at its door a customer whose
ready money flows into its pockets in such a
steady stream that what otherwise would be one
of the poorest is in reality one of the richest of
the States. An agricultural population is inval-
. uable; Australia wants an enormous addition to
its numbers. But the average earnings in agri-
culture are low. The last estimates the undis-
puted Coghlan made on the subject for N. 8.
Wales ran like this :
Persons Annual Value Amount
Employed, of Production, pci head.
Agriculture.. .. 77,6111 £6,563,000 £7l 13 6
.Manufactures .. 66,269 11,452,000 172 16 2
There have been better years for agriculture than
that; yet the best have not shown results to com
pare with those, from the manufacturing indus-
tries. Nevertheless, agriculture is helped along
with great gifts and aids from the State. The
President of the N.S.W. Pastoralists’ Associa-
tion declared the other day that the farmer
could not live without them. That was
wrong; he could—if he were provided with
‘a big ready-money market at his door. Over
£10,000,000 was sent out of Australia last
year to pay for iron and metal manufactures.
That not only rbbbed Australia of the iron and
steel workers that it should have had; but it
robbed Australian farmers also of a great ready-
money market which they should have had.
wonder they call for all sorts of Government aids
and concessions.
• * •
One great advantage of these manufacturing
industries is that they help one another and pro-
mote one another. The relation of the coke-
making and the silver-smelting industries was
noticed just now. In the same connection
there is the fascinating story of the relation of
the coke industry to the great copper-raining and
smelting businesses at Cobar and Lithgow. Having
established their coke ovens, the Longworth
brothers were driven to get ore to smelt so that
ithey could use their coke ; and that led to the
tributing and subsequent purchase of the Great
Cobar, the resurrection of the town, and its
development into one of tho most flourishing
centres in the State. The farmer grows his
wheat; the pastoralist his wool. If there is no
local demand for it, they are not much concerned
about creating one—though it would bo greatly to
their advantage if they did. All they do is to pass
their wheat and the wool on to the shipper. But
these industrial manufacturers must strive all the
time to create a home demand for their goods.
The coke-maker must strive to have metal mines
opened and furnaces set up; the people who
establish ironworks must inevitably strive to
promote other industries to use up the iron.
To have men who are thus directly and personally
interested in founding an industry is the first step
taken towards getting that industry. And the step
is all the longer, and the goal all the nearer, when
those men. besides being interested, are in a posi-
tion to help the secondary industry in its early
stages with their organisation, their raw material,
and their capital.
• • * •
It is so obviously a good thing, then, to have
an iron and steel industry in Australia that it
looks a good deal like waste of time and ink to
argue it. What apparently isn’t realised so uni-
versally is why the industry doesn’t establish it-
self ; the part of the public that doesn’t realise that,
doesn’t realise those initial difficulties previously
mentioned. But some figures and experiences
that ought to be conclusive—that will be con-
clusive to the impartial person—can be produced
on that point too. The one great smelting indus-
try that Australia has so far established is silver-
lead smelting ; and in connection with the Broken
Hill mines it has been brought to a state sur-
passed nowhere in the world. Yet what a grave-
yard of blasted projects even those successful
Broken Hill mines are, with discarded smelt-
ing furnaces for gravestones! The Pinnacles,
the Day Dream, the Terrible Dick, the Broken
Hill South, the Junction, Block 14, the
British—all these and many more spent great
sums of money on smelting furnaces, and failed.
In 1887 the average total cost per ton of ore
smelted by the Broken Hill Proprietary was £6
12s. sd. in the first half, and £5 10s. 4d. in the
second half; and the losses of metal were
appalling. In five years the total costs had got
down to £3 6s. 7d. per ton. In the six months to
the end of the last term that the company’s reports
talk about (November, 11)06) 294,412 tons had
been handled at an average cost of £1 14s. per
ton ; and that included the expensive process of
refining as well as smelting—a process which the
company didn’t attempt in the earlier periods.
Fortunately those mines had amazingly rich
ore to start upon; if they hadn’t, with-
out a large State subvention they would
never have been able to start at all.
The position the Broken Hill Proprietary was in
during 1887 is the position the Australian iron
and steel industry is in to-day—but it hasn’t the
Broken Hill Proprietary’s rich silver to see it
through the experimental stages. The point that
has to be driven home, however, is that this
smelting co., which at the start could only treat
its ore at a cost of £6 12s. sd. per ton—to-dav,
having got on its feet, can treat infinitely more
refractory ore, and carry the process of treatment
much farther, at a cost of £ll4s. per ton. The
position with regard to iron and steel smelting is
exactly the same. What hope, then, has "an
industry groping its way in a young country,
experimenting upon new materials, working with
raw hands—what hope has it got if it is not pro-
tected for a while against the competition of
foreign smelting companies which have made just
the same progress in their branch of the industry
as the Broken Hill Proprietary has made in it-,
branch ?


A
a
Price £,C) 6s. Postage 9d.
This is a KODAK.
A No. 3 FOLDING POCKET KODAK,
WITH AUTOMATIC SHUTTER.
jz? A Genuine
“Eastman”
Kodak
Not one of
the . . .
Numerous
Imitations
Takes Pictures x3X inches.
Weighs only 22 ounces.
Films Changed & Developed in Daylight.
BAKER and ROUSE
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
FOR KODAK, LIMITED,
PROFY LTD.
375 and 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
** The Block," 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide
78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane
Vi i h
Mu iii M
'///
I!
I/Ml
1
ililt
ribiiof* 1 real SON f EDISON f EDISON rtoISOH h (eoTsON * EDISON |\ EDISON f EDISON EDISON EDISON E f EDISON fl
flimiTTil Haonoamofl tawnowat [imonouiorsfi |*xonouiDcofl MutnoviofoO 60ld ncunofo f) soto nouuifD [ soto novuxol 6oic novwnH Soto nouiDfoll 6010nouwiDll
mcownsi Ibeodbos U/ jut cords V l records W V records w records U 1 records W vrecoros \U t records yj records \U records W records j
Ask for the Latest Lists.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia Ltd.
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
When you select a Phonograph or Gold-Moulded Records make sure that you get the
genuine Edison. They always bear this trade mark —
TRADE
Cl £dVa
on~
EDISON
WtOHOI/UEDI
RECORDS
J' EDISON |\ [‘EDISON JR EDISON flat SON KIfEOISON f\ EDISON M EDISON ffl EDISON R\ EDISON JT EDISON ftoiSON t
60to noi/uaro II mlo nouiot oil gold nouLDfofl soiDnouißfol i |6oiflfi£Hiu>n)|l 6olomoi/umil Gotonouu)fo|| 6ocofiouiofoll «iiono<iu>a>|l wionouujtoll MiDmwutsll
j RECORDS \y RECORDS gj [RECORDS «J VRECORDS tfj IRECORDS g] RECORDS gj VRECORDS g] IRECORDS g] RECORDS \RECORDS gj RECORDS if
THIRTY-FOURTH REPORT
OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The Melbourne Tramway $ Omnibus (Jo. [td
Presented to the Shareholders at the Annual Meeting held at the Registered Office of the
Company, 673 Bourke-street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, 13th August, 1907, at 2 p.m.
'OUR Directors present herewith the duly audited Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account for the year ended
3uth June.
The Balance shown after paying £57,600 in Dividends for the year, making' the necessary reserves
and including £25,711 6s. lid. brought forward from last year is £40,391 10 2
From this the Directors propose to pay a Bonus of 3 %• 14,400 0 0
Leaving to carry forward £25,991 10: ; 2
The Traffic Receipts for the year are very satisfactor3\ showing an increase on the previous twelve months of
£39,513 2s. 4d. On the other hand, this increased traffic, representing the carrying of nearly seven millions more
passengers, together with the advance in the rates of the wages mentioned at the last annual meeting, has consider-
ably increased the expenses.
Under Clause 05 of the Articles of Association, two Directors, the lion. Wm. Cain, M.L.C., and Andrew Rowan,
Esq., J. P., retire from office, and offer themselves for re-election.
The retiring Auditors, Messrs. I. C. Foden and John Bishop, have given notice that thev seek re-election.
W. (j. SPRIUG, Secretary. F. B. CLAPP, Chairman.
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT, Year Ending 30th June, 1907.
Cr.
EXPENDITURE.
Feed £5,834 18 11
Fuel 14,190 18 9
Licenses, Rates, Insurances, Law Costs,
and Miscellaneous Charges .. .. 11,551 0 1
Repairs and Maintenance of Cars, Build-
ings, Ropes, and Lines .. .. .. 69,736 810
Stationery and Office Expenses .. .. 3,490 7 8
Salaries of Staff, and Directors’ and
Auditors’ Fees 19,377 14 9
Wages 140,486 16 0
Depreciation of Leaseholds 1,367 8 6
Rating on Tramway Lines 11,555 0 10
Income Tax j 4,156 0 3
Expenses of Tramway Trust 889 5 9
Interest on Debentures of Tramway Trust 74,250 0 0
Sinking Fund do. do. 45,000 0 0
Transferred to Reserves—
For Depreciation of Properties, Stock
and Plant 35,000 0 0
For Return of Capital 30,000 0 0
For Renewal of Tramways .. .. 7,313 19 6
Dividends Paid 57,600 0 0
Balance 40,391 10 2
£572,191 10 0
Balance forward from last year .. .. £25,711 611
INCOME.
Advertisements, Manure, Kent, and Trans-
fer Fees 2,333 13 7
Interest 25,598 4 10
Traffic Receipts _ .. .. .. 518,548 4 8
£572,191 10 0
BALANCE SHEET, 30th JUNE, ISQ7.
ASSETS.
Cash (in Hand) Current Balance £2,866 6 6
„ Office and Drivers 308 10 0
£3,174 16 6
Freehold Properties in Brunswick, Clifton
Hill, Carlton, Collingwood, Fitzroy, North
Melbourne, Kew, Melbourne, Moonee
Ponds, Prahran, Port Melbourne, Rich-
mond, St. Kilda, South Melbourne, and
South Yarra, at Book Values .. ..249,146 7 3
Leasehold Properties at Cost, less
amounts previously written off 13,667 0 1
Less written off this year 1,367 8 6
12,299 11 7
Municipal and other Debentures at Cost ..806,512 14 1
Loans on Fixed Deposit at Face Value .. 17,164 12 0
~ Mortgage at Face Value .. .. 57,646 7 2
Debts due to Company, other than as above
mentioned .. .. 16,273 12 7
Stock and Plant at Valuation—
Feed on Hand £2,045 3 2
Horses 1,715 0 0
Furniture. Safes, and Stationery
at Head Office and 31 Branches 2,823 5 6
Cars, Grips, Ropes, Tools, Bell
Punches and Material ..138,069 19 2
144,653 7 10
£1,306,871 9 0
LIABILITIES.
Capital, Nominal £2,000.000
Subscribed £960,000 0 0
Less Uncalled .. .. 480,000 0 0
£480,000 0 0
(Of which £400,000 was actually paid
up in money)
Reserve Accounts —
For Dividends (Invested in Debentures)..
To Safeguard Investments (Invested in
Debentures)..
For Depreciation of Properties and of
Stock and Plant (Invested in Deben-
tures)
For Return of Capital, with interest
accumulations (Invested in Deben-
tures)
For Renewal of Tramway and other pur-
poses (Invested in Debentures)..
Unclaimed Dividends
Bills Payable .. .. .. "* **
Owing on Open Accounts ..
Owing in Deposits ..
Owing to the Bank of Victoria
Balance Profit and Loss
12,000 0 0
20,000 0 0
115,000 0 0
143,748 17 9
266,374 10 1
100 16 6
194 12 9
56,127 4 9
30,000 0 0
142,933 17 0
40,391 10 2
£1,306,871 9 0
Auditors’ Certificate.
We hereby certify that we have examined the Books and Vouchers of Expenditure and that ro far ns ni .„
a position to form an opinion the above Balance Sheet and Accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Acts, and present a correct view of the Compan y’s affairs. We also certify That we
have not observed or become acquainted during the audit with anv breach of the Companies Acts committeH hv iTf
Company,or any Director, Manager, Employee, Auditor, or Shareholder thlreof, all our Teq dsitions a.
Auditors, including those in regard to the Private Balance Sheet, have been complied with. requisitions as
Melbourne, 2nd August, 1907.
I. O. FODEN, F.I.A.V. 1 .
JOHN BISHOP, F.1.A.V./Auditors.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
The day of the last football test was one of
excitement. Nominally, the match was between Aus-
tralia and Maoriland ; actually, it was between N.S.VV.
and the Island State, for excepting that A. B. Burge had
taken the place of C. E. Murnin, who was mourning his
dead sister, the All Blacks were to meet identically the
same team that had thrashed them on the afternoon of
July 17 by 14 points to nil. Hope soared high in the
Cornstalk breast, while, on the other hand, the All Blacks
did not feel too hopeful. This same team had beaten
them before at their own game when they played “ all
in,” and the scathing comments of the press on the
Maorilander’s Fiji-uncle tricks made a repetition of
those methods too dangerous. The absence of the
dashing Murnin was a loss indeed, but A. B. Burge,
the man who was to take his place, was one of the
best, and he had his spurs to win. Looking round the
crowd the effect of the unsportsmanlike tactics of the
Maorilanders was evident in the reduced attendance.
The empty spaces represented a drop of 20,000 in the
attendance compared with the first match. The chast-
ened Maorilanders played a very different game, and with
the exception of a little elbow work in the line out, and
the fact that one of the Maoriland forwards was obviously
looking for fight, the All Blacks, for the first time in the
campaign, played an absolutely fair game.
The characteristics of the game were the dash
of the Australian forwards, the passing charges of the
backs, and the regularity with which the ball came soar-
ing over the line every time the Maorilanders
got possession in the ruck and got a rush on.
The tackling of the Australians was irresist-
ible, and the line-kicking, in spite of the wind,
faultless. It nullified the Maorilanders’ splendid charges,
and sent them back again and again to fight desperately
on their goal line, where the Australian forwards raged,
and Mandible and McKivatt tried to burst through, and
the crafty Messenger played strange unearthly tricks
that baffled them sorely. Dix, the Australian full-back,
played magnificently, gathering in with splendid cer-
tainty and kicking with machine-like precision. In every
football game, as in every battle, the element of luck
looms large, and it saved the Maorilanders more than
once on Saturday;afternoon. The-first half found the
Australians playing with the wind behind them. It was
a strenuous struggle between the forwards, in w'hich the
Australians had the best of it, so that play was confined
mostly to the Maorilanders’ territory. Occasionally they
would break through and sweep down the ground, only
to be driven back by accurate line-kicking. With the
things that were done in the ruck a volume might be
filled.
Back to play again, Australia found the wind
in its face. “ Now then,” said the Maoriland followers,
“ you’ll see w r hat you will see. The Blacks ’ll shear
through them anyhow ! ” But the Australians opened
up. Messenger, playing centre three-quarter, marked.
Following up, Wood secured, passed to McKivatt, to
Smith, to Messenger, back to McKivatt, who lost, but
picked up at full speed and passed again to Wood, who
hurled himself Over the line. Messenger added the
points. It was an amazing charge, and paralysed
the Maorilanders, but Messenger’s kick was even more
wonderful, being taken from a most acute angle and
against the wind. The Maorilanders had a shot at goal
from a mark, but Wallace failed. Two long punts well
followed up saw Australia force tw'ice. The Australians
let loose another splendid passing charge, but the last
pass bounced off Smith’s chest, and although he followed
up, and touched down, the bounce w'as treated as a knock
on and a scrum ordered. This little incident was the
first of two great items of luck that struck the All Blacks.
Suddenly, at half way, Fryer, of Maoriland, centred,
and the younger Burge, running back to get possession,
collided "with full-back Dix. Both men went sprawling,
and Mitchinson secured and scored. It w'as sheer luck.
Seeing that Dix had almost got the ball, and knowing
there was nothing to stop him finding the line, the
Blacks had ceased to follow up, when the accident
occurred. Even then it was only Mitehinson’s speed
that enabled him to take advantage of the disaster,
for Dix recovered himself immediately. Wallace con-
verted, and equalised the score. Australia attacked
twice, and scores were only avoided by prompt forcing.
The last of the game was a great struggle on the Austra-
lian goal line, brought about by a lucky line kink. The
Blacks crowded every man into the ruck in a desperate
attempt to force a way over the line, and the trembling
crowd counted the seconds that dragged past so slowly.
It only wanted a minute-and-a-half to time, and that
mass of struggling footballers swayed about right on the
line. Suddenly the ball came soaring over the heads of
the pack, and out of touch —the Australians had cleared
their line—and as it curved downward the whistle blew,
leaving the game a drawn one with five points each.
The sudden apparition of “Professional” Rugby
in Sydney broke up the fountains of Great Platitude and
opened tiie windows of Canting Humbug All that the so-
called “ professional ” Rugbyites propose to do is estab-
lish football on the same basis as cricket. The com-
munity that rather sympathises with the cricketers in
their struggle against the proposal of the Board of
Control to reduce the fee from £25 to £l5 per match
is shocked at the proposed extension of a much milder
form of remuneration to the Rugby footballer. Could
hypocrisy and humbug go further? In fact, the start of
this professional movement was due to the pernicious
example of the Australian Xl’s, which went to
England as amateurs, but divided half the gate among
them, and came back with the best part of £lOOO per
man. If cricketers can do this sort of thing without
“ ruining the grand old game,” and all the rest of it, a la
Wade and Bishop Stretch, why should the Rugby cracks
be debarred? This paper doesn’t hold a brief for pro-
fessionalism, but there are some aspects of the case
that almost incline it to do so. Its objection to
the professional in sport is that it brings about a bad
system in which a few score cracks play the game, while
somewhere about 100,000 people sit on the fence and smoke
cigarettes, only pausing in the smoking industry to te l
some b awny expert, who has just failed to do the im-
possible, that he’s only fit for cat’s meat. That’s the
trouble with professional sport—and, sad to say, it’s
largely the trouble with amateur sport also. Huge
crowds—s2,ooo to see a single match—may be good for
the sport, but they’re bad for the community that ought to
be out on a hundred parks booting the leather itself. Then
there’s another aspect of the case. Just at present in
our football, we are getting exhibitions of a professional
standard si amateur prices, and it isn’t a fair deal. Take
the case of a man who plays district ’ball in Sydney. At
the very least he has to give up about two days a week to
training, and Saturday afternoon is occupied in the game
for which he has trained. If he is in business for
himself it means that he has to pay someone to look
after his affairs and run his business ; no business can be
left for two and a half da.\ s a week to look after itself. If
he is working for someone else, he has to get a fair amount
of his time off duty, and the result is that he never rises
very high. He remains at a bare living salary all his life,
like poor old George Giffen, Australia’s one-time mighty
cricketer, who plods along in the post office on £250 per
annum. Had he left cricket alone, and pegged away in
the office with half the energy he put into the swinging
of the bat, he might have been receiving twice the salary
in his old age. If the public is going; to insist on the
present standard of skill in sport, it must be prepared to
all >w the players to share some of the profits of the
business. If necessary, it can be stipulated that the
shire shall be put into an endowment policy, so that the
pi i.ver, when old and decrepit, shall have the benefit
of something like a steady income. Theoretically, the
chance of becoming a member of a crack team, in which
good monej could be earned, should be a powerful incen-
tive to a youth to train hard and try to improve himself.
But youth is not sordid, and the joy of watching the
crack player in the full bloom of his excellence is often
greater than the joy of kicking the ball himself.
• * * . *
Last Tuesday night, at Bateman’s Hotel,
Sydney, “Professional Rugby” sprang, like Minerva,
into sudden being, leaving about a hundred empty places
in the Union’s ranks. Eastern Suburbs club has suffered
the most, and the only clubs apparently unaffected are
Manly and University. Eastern Suburbs has little chance
of winning the Rugby Union premiership now. At the
meeting reference was made to the threats of certain
employers to dismiss men who joined the professional
movement, and the promoters promised to find any men
so treated fresh berths, and also to sup ly funds for
legal action against any employers guilty of such un-
wise conduct. But it is hardly likely that employers
will dismiss good men because they play professional
Rugby, so the League is not likely to be put to much ex-
pensein that direction. The new body is to becalled the
Rugby League of N.S.W., and if it only does about half the
things it has proposed and promised, it will bean excel-
lently-managed affair. After the League had been
founded three selectors were chosen to pick a team to
meet the other All Blacks w’ho were even then nearing
Sydney. The team chosen w T as not so strong as Tub
Bullktin had expected it would be, and indicates that
the Union has still a few good players left. Still, the back
combination is unusually powerful, including players like
Hedl'e.v, late of Glebe, and Messenger, Stuntz, Rosefeldt,
and D’Alpuget, of the Eastern Suburbs. In fact, Eastern
Suburbs appears to be about wrecked.
The League repudiates the term “profes-
sional.” It says it isn’t organised for profit, but merely
to give the players better treatment—more liberal com-
pensation for the loss of time and the neglect of
business which are inseparable from success in athletics.
In fact, the League claims that it is going to organise
Rugby on the same basis as cricket, nothing more
or less, excepting that an insurance scheme is to be
evolved by which players who are injured wall receive
compensation and medical expenses. Matches will be
played against a Maoriland team right away, and a visit
to England to play against the Northern Union is being
arranged.
It all sounds very fair and almost altruistic.
But someone has put money into this, and Tim Bullr-
tix as it approaches middle age grows cynical enough
to suspect that those gentry will expect a return on the
money. That the Rugby Union lags behind the times is
undoubtedly true ; it is bound hand and foot to the
gilded English body, and till it breaks away from that it
can make no progress. The conditions of the game are
totally different in the two countries, and Austra-
lian players cannot afford to play Under con-
ditions which suit the English clubs. But this move-
ment has not originated among the players ; it arose
among capitalists who have money to invest, and think
they can invest it bo advantage in football. If they keep
the promises they have made to the players it is a good
scheme, but there is a large, vague uncertainty about it
all that does not appear too hopeful. While these pro-
moters control its affairs the position will be decidedly
unsatisfactory. All the same, the promoters may
have sufficient sense to see that it will pay
them best to deal squarely with the men
they have induced to leave the Union clubs.
Otherwise there may arise the interesting spectacle of a
Rugby strike, and of a non-union ball being kicked by
free labor —which would be humorous. In the meantime,
the first match against Maoriland will take place at the Ag-
ricultural Ground, Sydney, on Saturday, at 3 p.m., while
at the other grounds the Union clubs will continue the
struggle for the championship ju-t as though nothing
had happened. Beyond disqualifying for life all men
who have joined it, the Union will ignore the League.
The question is, which is to prove the elephantand which
the small boy.
* # * *
The struggle among the Sydney Soccer clubs
for the Raivson Oup came to an official end on Saturday.
Pyrmont made its victory even more decisive by receiving
a forfeit from the Navy, and it captured the utensil with
a score of 25 points. Glebe and Balmain share second
position with 19 points each. These two clubs met on
Saturday last, and the Glebe forwards exhausted their
energy trying to break through the Balmain defence.
When they ceased to attack the Balmainers crowded into
the fray, and trampling the Glebeites under foot won by
the large margin of five goals to nil. Rozelle and
Ultimo follow with 16 points each, so they can toss
up to decide which is fourth and which is fifth.
These two also met on Saturday, when Ultimo won with
two goals to nil. Petersham, which started so well, and
gave promise of providing a huge surprise packet, only
managed, after all, to-win three of the 12 matches played ;
it lost seven and made a draw of two. The Navy won
nothing, the culmination of its success being one drawn
game; the other 11 were lost. The five points scored
represented two byes and the aforesaid drawn match.
The competition for the Gardiner Cup will begin forth-
with.
* * * *
The chief interest in Vic. League football
centred in the discussion between South and Saints, the
winner of which was to step into third place for the
second round of matches. It was the earlier game this
season between these clubs that caused most of the press
criticism of “vicious” football. The players have
acquired wisdom since then, but not too much wisdom,
vet though Saturday’s argument was none too courteous,
it was able to pass inspection. Each club put its strongest
eighteen in the field, and, though Saints played a better
game than they have done for many weeks, they were
outclassed and beaten by 64 points to 44. On account of
their recent improvement the men from Sleepy
Hollow had great hopes of dragging Collingwood
down from its eminence, but though the Sleepy
Hollowites showed much individual excellence, the
“system” was too much for them, and the score was
15 goals six behinds to eight goals nine behinds. In that
marvellous score of 15.6—considering the high cross wind
—the system told its tale. There was no taking chances ;
the ball was passed back and forth till the man in the
best position marked it—then it was sent through five
times out of seven. Carlton duly trod on Essendon, to
the tune of 78 points to 25 ; and Melbourne upended 'Roy
by 55 to 39. The big club still has some hopes of reaching
the semi-finals, provided it can win two out of the three
second-round games, and St. Kilda manages to lose as
many • but as an alternately promising, alternately dis-
appointing team, Melbourne has no equals.
* * * *
In matters Association, pride of place is due to
North Melbourne, the quaint band of ’bailers that, after
playing 14 games, has at last managed to win one. Cer-
tainly it only beat the down-trodden Ports, by 5.8 to 2.7,
but the joy of the suburb that the Crutehy Push used to
adorn was so great that it went within a pint of getting
completely drunk. For therest Williamstown, Essendon
(A) and Richmond beat Prahran, Preston and West, the
last named team having lately fallen away so much that,
though still in the first four, there is some slight chance
of Brunswick displacing it. Brunswick, on Saturday,
put up a strenuous fight against last season’s runners-up
—’Serai’—and won by 5.9 to 4.11. There were various
slight disturbances in parts, but nothing to call for the
services of the ambulance or the coroner, and nobody
had to be dispersed by furious charges of the Federal
cavalry.
•* * * *
A lot of fuss —quite unnecessary, as the event
proved—was made about jockey Burn and his mount for
the Caulfield G.N. Hurdle Race, t’other week. The Tas-
manian horse, Bribery (win- „r of the G.N. at Fleming-
ton), became a hot favorite some days before the Caul-
field race, partly on the strength of a report that Burn
was going to ride him. Burn had previously been en-
gaged to ride Devonier, but seemingly there was no ) ar-
ti ular objection to his breaking the engagement, in order
to ride the favorite. Devonier’s chance looked not so
good, and the crack jockey’s preference for the favorite
was thus explained. But, on the day before the race, the
stewards of the V.A.T.0., having held an inquiry into
the question of this change of mounts, ordered Burn to
break his second engagement and ride Devonier. It is now
generally understood that the stewards had been deceived
by a rumor that the heavy b eking of Bribery was due to
the horse having passed into the possession of a person
who was supposed to have made some of the other runners
“ safe ”in the interests of his new purchase. As a mat ter
of fact, Bribery did not change hands, nor was the rumor
correct in a >y particular, according to people who are
usually well informed about turf swindles. Bribery’s
chance had merely been over-rated by a sanguine stable,
to about the same degree that it was under-rated ere that
moderate performer brought off a surprise in the big
Hurdle race at Flemiugton. Anyhow, he cut a poor
figure at Caulfield, finishing seventh, whilst Devonier,
with Burn in the saddle, ran very respectably, and was
the fifth beast past the post.
* * * *
Bribery, steered by Burn, won the 4-miles
G. N. Steeplechase at Caulfield as easily as he was expected
to win the Hurdle Race on the previous Saturday. The
extra distance and the bigger jumps in the Steeplechase
were points in Bribery’s favor, and Burn seemingly is
equal to a 71b. allowance for the animal he Sloans.
Which isn’t to say that he could have done the trick with
the same mount in the Hurdle Race, if the V.A.T.C.
committee had not refused him the chance. At any dis-
tance up to miles, Dog of War might have beaten
Bribery again on Saturday, but the journey was too long
for the lightweight, and he dropped away into fourth
place at the finish. The winner lost the confidence of
his party on tin- morning of the race, owing to his slight
lameness, so the s.p. backers in town (where ''no
betting is done ”) got the pleasing price of 13 to 1. Two
of the flat races at Saturday’s meet produced splendid
finishes. Sweet Bird scored a lucky half-length victory
from Sergeant Brue in the Malakotf Stakes, and in the
St. Aubyn Welter the fourth horse was only three heads
behind the winner. Among the unbacked and beaten
ones, Dyed Garments gave indications of being in a fair
w r ay to do better things between how and November.
• * * *
Sydney pony punters got-a strong “office”
during several recent days. At the official opening of
the new Rosebery course a jockey’s name and the
numeral eight were hoisted to show the working of an
improved information board, and allowed to remain
there till Wednesday of last week, the day of the initial
meeting. Then, strangely enough, the first race went to
a nag (Sandy') whose number in the book was eight!
Those who followed the tip have been talking about it
ever since.
» * * »
The third international lacrosse test —the
fourth and last is due on Saturday, at Adelaide —showed
the Canadians in their true form, in more than one
respect. Since their defeat, by five goals to tlnee, on the
M. 0. Ground on Saturday' fortnight, they had persistently
explained that they weren’t used to these long, wide
grounds, and that the Australian ball was much lighter
than theirs; and unless the short ground was conceded
them there would be no third test match. The argument
raged right up to the morning of the match, when the
Australians conceded a playing limit of 135yds.—rather
more than splitting the difference —but insisted
on the lighter ball being used. During the course
of the discussion sundry Stinking Fish purve-
yors raged furiously in the press, demanding that
Kangaroo should abase himself immediately before the
Kanueks who had graciously' journeyed hither to teach
him the game. As a matter of sober fact the Kanueks
should have done the abasement, i any body. The
Canadian lacrosse field at one time extended for miles;
but when rules were drawn up it W’as fixed at 150yds.
from goal to goal. Some y'ears ago the tired Kanuck re-
duced this to 115yds. minimum, 125yds. maximum ; and
quite recently it was further reduced to ] 10yds. maximum.
When, to settle arguments, the field on which the
first test was played was measured, it was found to be,
not 150yds. or 160yds., as alleged, but 135yds. So that
even there the Australians were giving about as much
as they got. And all this while nobody said a word about
the baggy crosses the visitors were using. It is vastly
easier to catch and hold a ball in a landing-net or a small
hammock than in a tennis racket, yet the Kanueks were
getting pretty near that advantage from the Kangaroos.
Though the anti-Australian crowd barracked hard, the
public noted these things—and the gate told its tale. The
first Melbourne test brought £353 ; the second, at Ade-
laide, £396 ; but for Saturday’s game, while the stands
were crowded w'ith M.C.C. deadheads, less than 3000 paid
sixpence a head to sit and watch “ outside.”
Most of these 3000 were none too friendly to
Canada, to start with, and as the. game progressed they
became bitterly hostile ; for it speedily became obvious
why the Kanuck lacrossers wear pads—in their caps,
across shoulders and chest, and at the hips. Not
once nor twice, when beaten in a scuffle for the ball, the
Kanueks used their crosses on the uripadded Australians,
w'ho promptly retaliated. After one such outburst a
goal umpire stepped on the field to intervene, lie was
promptly'knocked down by a Kanuck. The referee or-
dered the offender off the field, but foolishly allow'td
him to return on apologising to the umpire. As for the
game, the Canadian’s stick work was superior, though
much of that may be owing to the baggy crosses, and their
combination was better. Also, and this explains much
of their demand for the extra-short field, when Delves
shot the ball on to Steet or Hutcheon, who passed it to
Humphris or Thorp, Bryning was in waiting, but
alw'ays Canadian Campbell or Kearns was watching
him just as a footballer watches his man, while ever
between Humphris and the goal were Hanley, Camphlin
and Arens. It was impossible to break through
unless half the side followed the ball, down and
passed and repassed nearer and nearer till a chance came
to shoot. Canada won by four goals to nil—chiefly by
reason of superior organisation, and the unduly receptive
capacities of their baggy crosses. But in considering the
chances of acclimatising the Canadian game here, the
writer wonders how these ill-regulated Kanueks would
fare if they bumped against a team like, say, the South
Melbourne footballers, armed with their crosses and
guarded with padded caps and clothing. It is long odds
there w’ould be several lacrossers in hospital afterw'ards,
but they wouldn’t be Australians.
* * * *
The remarks of Field, the Englishman who had
backed Towns, about Umpire Rush having blun-
dered in his decision, made the backers of Webb so angry
that they offered to put up £2OOO to be rowed for. If
Mr. Field was so almighty sure his man was the better
rower, let him cover that, so what d’ye think of
that now? So far no one has rushed in to back Towns
for the amount, and there is a great blank silence in
which a faint whisper of “ bluff! ” struggles faintly,
like a cockroach in the middle of the Great Victoria
Desert.
* * * •
Messenger, probably the finest Rugby player
in Australia, has a hankering for sculling honors, and is
hard at work developing his powers. When he announces
himself he will attempt a meteoric sweep of the board,
charging right through the tanks, with a view to finally
landing the world’s championship. And he wilt probably
make a good fight for it.
* * • «
By the time this is in print the N.S.W.
Cyclists’ Association will be with Butler and the rest of
the mighty dead. The unfortunate office kid has already'
received the sack, and it is said that the delighted
Mclntosh is going to give him a billet just to prove to
one who knows w'hat a better show the League is. It is
not suspected that Mclntosh will extend the same kind-
ness to the secretary, who is now wearing the anxious
look of a man about to make a fresh start in
life. In other w'ords, the Association is dead
and its rooms closed. For a fortnight before the final
smash the members were rejoining the League as fast as
that body, which seems to be in a fairly forgiving’ mood,
would re-admit them. However the Association died
hard, and showed a brave front to the last, but it was
obvious that the end was near when it started to negoti-
ate for an amalgamation. There is an intense desire to
know exactly how much the secretary collected of that
£5O which was lately voted to him. Rumor, always a
lying-tart, butonethatsometimes tells the truth,mentions
various amounts—amounts that are always expressed in
shillings.
* * • •
The scantily garbed young man who, with head
down, whirleth along lonely country roads on a bike in
the hope that he may be soon enough to annex the grand
piano which waiteth at the end of the journey as a prize
or bait, or the electro-plated ware, or the cheque that
meaneth a trip to Melbourne to ride from Warrnambool,
has been absolutely -passed out in Maoriland. Sundry
cops, J’s.P., and beaks have conspired to cause his down-
fall, and great has been the lamentation thereat. A com-
petitor in a road race in the North Island ran over the
local J. P.’s ducks, so the J.P. sooled the local cop on to
the swift young man’s track. The result was that all the
competitors in that race were fined for furious riding.
Then the police all over the land seized its constabulary
axe, and rushed in to annihilate the road cyclist. Com-
petitors were carefully rounded up at the finish and
hauled before the beak. As a consequence, the Maori-
land Dunlop Road Race (Timaru to Christchurch) which
has served for years as an eliminating contest, to decide
who shall be the Dominion’s rep. to ride in the YVarrnam-
bool event, has been abandoned.
* * * 4
Another world’s record has gone overboard, a
Frenchman named Berthet having riddeh, unpaced,
25 miles 1640yds. in an hour on the Buffalo Track, Paris.
This is 670yds. better than the previous best.
* » * *
Road racing is easily the most interesting form
of cycling. Compared to it the struggles on the banked
track are small potatoes. And Australia leads the world
in road racing. Two of these big contests are looming up
close among the crowd of coming tall events that throw
long shadows ahead of them. On this Saturday the
League’s Bathurst to Sydney struggle will eventuate, and
it is expected that fully 120 starters will face the music.
This is the affair promoted by the Wallace-Continental
Tyre Co., and every part of the Commonwealth,
even little Tasmania and far-away Westralia, will
have representatives. On September 7 the League
will also run off the Goulburn to Sydney race,
the classic event that always decides which champion
shall represent N.S. W. at the even more classic tussle
from Warrnambool to Melbourne, which the great Dunlop
Co. has promoted for years past. Although] entries have
closed for the Goulburn-Sydney run, it is impossible at
time of writing, owing to the lack of news as regards
entries from other States, to say exactly how large the
field will be. But there is little doubt it' will be just
about a record.
* * * *
Another Australian-made tyre is beginning to
force its way into public notice. It comes from the
works of Barnett, Glass and Co., Saltwater 1 River, Foots-
cray, Melbourne, and is made in two grades of weight,
known as the “Flite” and “Daddy.” Practical tests
prove that for resiliency and wearing Qualities they
will hold their own with the best. The only set of these
t3'res which revolved in the I.C.C.A. Cup 25-mile road
race, scored first place in a field of 58. At the Dunlop
Hill Climbing contest there were three of them in a field
of 120, and one car shod with them was beaten for first
place by less than three seconds. The factory is only
just settling down to work, but already 150 hands are
employed."
* * * *
Of course the nobleman of the Borghese family
won the Pekin-Paris motor race. Ghen a fair car,
moderate luck, and an average knowledge of motor-
handling, one labelled “ Prince ” could hardly do any-
thing else in a contest of the kind. The Borghese had
powerful friends at the Petersburg Court. By the
London D. T. correspondent’s showing, the produc-
tion of the Ministerial documents that had been
forwarded from the Russian capital reduced the
moujiks, even in the ultimate wilds of Siberia, to
a condition of sheer grovel. Was a river bridge
down (and it generally was), one flourish of a passport
and h If the township was at work building a fresh bridge.
Did the motor stick in a ditch or in the frequefit roadway
mud, the production of a signed letter from a notability
3000 miles away' agitated the mayor or other headman
privileged to see it to frenzy, and forthwith the lower
orders of the district were instructed to start personally
hauling the vehicle on its way. All of which was excel-
lent from the Italian motorist’spoint of view. No fair test,
however, either of car or driver, can be made over this
sort of country,.where- one competitor gets all the help
that bureaucracy can give him ; and the others none
whatever.
* » * *
When Maoriland pug Jim Griffin pu ehed his
right forearm into hospital on the iron front of Billy
McCall, he had the limb bandaged without proper exami-
nation. As be was training for a fight with Sidney
Russell, fixed for last Tuesday night, he went on
training—barring the boxing exercise. Then somebody
bad a look at the arm and said it was broken. Griffin
scoffed, but saw a doctor. And it was broken, so James
finds himself laid aside for at least two months, and the
path that led to glory and the championship is tem-
porarily closed.
MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Clip, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and ” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaida, Melbourne and Sydney,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
CRIPPLED WITH RHEUMATISM FOR
15 YEARS.
Discharged from the Hospital Walking on
Crutches. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
Again Successful.
“I was a perfect cripple with rheumatic gout
for 15 years,” writes Mr. William Rickard, Albany
Place, North Dunedin, N.Z., "‘and could not
walk without the aid of crutches. I was under
the best doctors here, but they did me no good.
I was also in the Lawrence Hospital for some
months, and was discharged incurable. About
twelve months ago I was recommended to give
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, which I
did, and before ] had finished the first bottle I
found they were doing me good. I continued to
take them regularly for three months, and I feel
quite a new man. lam quite certain that lam
now permanently cured, as I have had no attacks
for over nine months, and can now get about
without the aid of a stick. You are at liberty to
make whatever use of this letter you deem fit.”
Those who suffer from any form of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, or neuralgia, should use Com-
stock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment, in conjunction
with Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills. These two
remedies have been highly successful in all kinds of
rheumatism, because one cleanses the blood of all
poisonous substances that cause the disease, in.
creasing the activity of the blood-making glands,
while the powerful, penetrating influences of the
Liniment, acting through the pores of the skin on
the nerves, bones, and muscles, overcome the
pain by relieving the effect on the delicate nerves,
causing the circulation of the blood to be main-
tained through the affected parts. Rheumatism,
lumbago, and sciatica all yield to the penetrating
and conquering properties of Comstock's Nerve
and Bone Liniment, if used in conjunction with
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. This Liniment is
on sale at all leading chemists and stores, or will
be forwarded post paid on receipt of price (2s. 6d.
per bottle, or six bottles for 13s. 6d.), by the
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Svdncv.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE
LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mqyatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


KUGELMANN’S
Vi
Si
©
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid/'
H FREE
H SAMPLE
' sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of LA MASCoTTE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 17,
The Best and Brightest Musical Comedy,
THE BELLE OF NEW YORK
interpreted by the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY'.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
R O Y A L, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. Messrs. Meynell and Gunn.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
Enormous Success of
MISS MAUD HILDYARD,
in the Magnificent Production,
yHEATRE
THE GREAT AWAKENING
By Maud Hiliyard and Russell Vaun.
Prices 3s, 2s &Is ; Is extra for booking. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Direction of .. .. EDWIN GEACH.
Sole Managers: George Willoughby and Hugh Ward.
EVERY EVENING. Sensational Success of
WILLOUGHBY and WARD LONDON COMEDY CO.,
Including MISS GRACE PALOTTA, in
MR. HOPKINSON.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
THE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at S. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and (id.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
FLORENCE BAINES’ Laughing Season.
A SPLENDID—SPONTANEOUS SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MISS LANCASHIRE, LTD.
Popular Prices. Box Plan at Paling’s.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY' at 2.30.
T L V , ° L 1 THEATRE, SfiH i Y
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
r , p . WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
and DENT, Celebrated English Comedians.
t ®® mai- kable Success, of THE SVENGALIS.
McLEAN, The Living Anatomical Chart.
tup Enthusiastic Welcome of MISS AGNES HAZEL.
COLLIERS, Premier Song and Dance Duo.
MICHAEL NOLAN, Irish Vocalist and Comedian.
LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
HHNDMARSH JAMIESON, Talented Tenor Vocalist.
And all our GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY.
O P = RA .house, IvT ELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
LEONARD NELSON, Character Comedian.
> HAMILTON HILL, Australian Baritone.
WILSON, Australian Mimic.
WARD CRANSTON and Company in Irish Racing
Sketc i, entitled TERRY.
M,™ r, TT TECHOVV’S PERFORMING CATS.
EpOL RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
Plan ft “’■"ESTO, Juggler and Musical Equilibrist.
Allan’s.
H E ? MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THitd 7 66 and Mana^er " Mr. J. ;C. Williamson.
W D t AY ’,E UGUST 15 > FRIDAY, AUGUST 16,
uast lwo Performances of THE RAGGED EARL.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 17,
ANDREW MACK in
«AC K SHANNON
Plan *n OR SIX NIGHTS ONLY.
at Allan’s, Menzies’. and The Grand.
E Wn™ EATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ssee .. .. .. BLAND HOLT.
Pivr-r AN EMPHATIC SUCCESS.
BLANDmH lAST,G CROWDS NIGHTLY CHEER
“OLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
THE BONDMAN.
Snoot , GEORGE RIGNOLD as JASON.
Brioeg__!j aC yT r Tableaux by Mr.' John Brunton.
pUINCE A " an s ’ Menzies’& The'Grs
Grand.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, AUGUST 17.
S Shed London Actor ERNEST LEICESTER,
Pported by MISS VALENTINE SIDNEY,
uman "hearts.
a Allan’s, Menzies, and The Grand.
Amusements.
ItjEW BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 ’ Sub-Lessee .. .. W,\i. Anderson.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING. .
CZERNY,
PRINCE OF PRESTIWITATEURS and his CLEVER
COMPANY OF ILLUSIONISTS in a Unique, Refined,
HUMOROUS FANTASTIC ENTERTAINMENT.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d, Is. Plan at Allan’s.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
yHE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
HEAL ICE SKATING,
THREE TIMES DAILY.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s ; SKATES, 6d.
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY EVENINGS,
ADMISSION, Is ; SKATES, 6d.
Monthty Tickets at Reduced Rates.
Business Announcements.
!//
r
Works: nedditch, England
There is no part of your cyc-
ling experience -which you
enjoy more thoroughly than
That Glorious
Coast,
and there is no period when
your safety is more depend-
ent on the efficiency of
your brake control, and the
reliability of the machine
you ride. The reliability
of the bicycle built from
Eadie Fittings
is beyond question, and the
efficiency of the brake con-
trol of the
EADIE
60ASTER
is such as to ensure your
safety under all conditions.
This is the coaster with
the simple brake—simple
in construction simply
applied, and its free-wheel
is absolutely frictionless.
[Ask your Dealer.]
Dept. A., EADIE M’F’C CO., Ld.
4 Stock Exchang-e Buildings,
Collins St., Melbourne.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Hersehell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
" REFEREE ” says :—“ The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL Co f London),
** Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
’ .1
Name
Address
Date of Birth ■...
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.--New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The DOLLOND Glass
DOLLOND’S
PATENT
PRISMATIC
BINOCULARS
are the finest possible ex-
amples of the British Optical
Industry, and although they
embody many improvements
they are less costly than Con-
tinental makes.
They are damp and dust I
proof, and can be cleaned in- 1
side in the quickest and easiest
manner imaginable.
They possess g'reat depth
of'focus and a surprisingly
clear definition—are very riyid,
and are piade of the finest
possible materials.
M
t ■
Price, £7.
——
ixamoofl aaxvHis/mi
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Agents for DolloncTs, Opticians to the King ar.d His Majesty's Government,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
DO YOU WANT TO HEAR
the conversation of your
friends—music—singing ?
Are you “hard of hear-
ing ” and denied those
pleasures?
It you are not totally deaf—nor born deaf—your hopes may revive, because relief is at hand
THE ELECTRICONS GA VE ME
PERFECT HEARING.
July 17th, 1907.
29 Buckhurst Street, S. Melbourne.
L. R. VERNON CO. Dear Sirs, —I am thankful to say that the Electricons which I obtained from you
some time ago have restored my hearing-. I was as deaf as a post for years, :n 1 your Electricons cured me.
Will you please send .vour Book to a few of my friends whom I know are deaf, and I shall always be pleased to
recommend your Electricons to anyone who is hard of hearing.—Yours truly, M. JOYNER.
THEY WILL HELP YOU. The Electricons are entirely different from any other Appliances. They
do not hurt, will not collapse in the ear, and are so sensitive that they catch the faintest sounds.
EASILY APPLIED. WRITE TO-DAY FOR BOOKLET.
THE E. R. VERNON CO
CO-64
HUNTER
SYDNEY.
vmm mnnuir min
iFREEI FREEI FREE! FREE I
TDDTmjfiToiiirnjtD
B> a gifted Clairv oy a n t. Astounding results. Past, Present
Fut u r e accurately read and foretold. Thousands have had con-
vincing proofs. Love. Courtship, Marriage, health, wealth,
happiness, character reading, all Life’s Mysteries, every human pas-
sion and emotion truly read. Wonderful! Miraculous I No
fee. nothing to pay for the reading. We will send you a Free
Privilege Form to fill in. to submit to the Clairvoyant whom we
have engaged. This will cost you nothing but is expensive to us.
It is a method we have adopted to advertise our firm. Send vour
name and address to— J
HARTWELL & CO., Cromwell Buildings,
Cor. Bourke & Elizabeth Streets, Melbourne
Missing 1 Friends.
WILLIAM (Narromine or Young).
INFORMATION WANTED.
NORTON SMITH & CO.,
2 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
T’~HE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
# Continental
CYCLa Tyres
THREE DECISIVE VICTORIES
.... IN THE
DUNLOP HILL-CLIMBING CONTEST,
BRIGHTON ROAD RACE,
TASMANIAN TEST RACE.
R,
£.
Heidelberg
Hill Climb.
CONTINENTAL TYRES scored a big victory in the
recent Dunlop Hiil Climbing Contest, the winning
machine (shod with the famous Red Road>Racing Tyres)
covering the distance—loso yards in 2min. 26 3-Ssecs.
f '
Brighton Road Race
The first and second places in the Brighton Fifty Mile Road Race, just held, were
both secured by machines fitted with CONTINENTAL RED TYRES.
Tasmanian Test Race
The first two machines to reach home in this severe test race between Hobart
and Launceston were fitted with the famous CONTINENTAL RED ROAD
RACING TYRES. ■ -
Continental C. & Q. Rubber Co.,
46 & 48 fIARKET STREET, HELBOURNE.
CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s
15et. Gold,. 155..
SHOPPING BY MAIL
Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent' carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cent/s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s. 60s. 60s. Solid Gold,
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
v richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
A
y>
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4 jin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
16c; Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10a.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, 21s,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3;
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, ‘ £7 10s.
A
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Puree, Ss 6d, Ills 6d;
Silver Filled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowe&
Charm, 3s Gdi
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s. 17s 6d, 20s.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct.. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
sxm
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 25a.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
m
tgm
r
m
m
R?
C*r
NKj
an
3?
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady's Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Leaf Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15et. Gold. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x 3|in, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cot. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15et. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Luck”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9ct. Gold Mounted, 10s 6d
smaller 8s 6d. Other Styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDER&
Shaving Brush and
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £i 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Signet Ring,
20s; 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6£in
long, 3s 6d. Other Styles, 5s 6d, 15s 6d.
Solid
Silver,
£2.
Solid
Gold,
-£7 llOl-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
Ket. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bucide
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS
9 ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbone
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6d.
Book
Marker, Solid
long,
A. SAUNDERS. _ ~ ...
Silver-mounted. New Zealand Greenstone Handle,
4s 6d. Other Styles, 2s 6d, 4s 6d.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st.,
Raflv/ajf Station, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


1e
f/l3A¥'W ONVM n
am '■ l
The Greatest of ail Piano Players
The CLAVIOLA, with its magnificent Artists' Music
Rolls, brings the playing of famous Pianists INTO
YOUR OWN HOME*
THE ARTISTS’ MUSIC ROLLS are electrical records of the actual
playing of master musicians. These are not mechanically cut rolls in
which the artists have marked directions for you to follow—not at all.
These great pianists are engaged to play especially for the benefit of
Claviola buyers, and electricity faithfully records every note and every
touch of the pedal while they play.
THINK WHAT THIS MEANS FOR YOU. With the Claviola you may
play Friedheim’s interpretations of Liszt, or Careno’s renderings of Chopin,
or give Harold Bauer’s reading of Beethoven upon your own piano.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER REASONS why this marvellous instrument
is away ahead of all others, such as its
SIX OCTAVE COMPASS,
PERFECT TOUCH,
THE ACCENTUATION OF MELODIES, AND
POWER OF EXPRESSION,
which cause musicians to mistake its playing for that of an artist’s hand
upon the keys.
Po not Fail to Call and Hear It, or Send for our Interesting Booklets.
IMPROMPTU RECITALS DAILY.
ME LB OURNE
ALLAN P
ROR
276-ft COLLINS ST
SYDNEY
W.H.PALINC«C?IZ?-
GEORGE ST
STARTLING DISCOVERY of the CAUSE of
APPENDICITIS !
According to an authoritative report it is stated that Dr. Blanchard
has placed before the world his startling discovery as to the cause of
Appendicitis. It is asserted, moreover, that his opinion is endorsed by
Professor Metchnikoff, the celebrated scientist of the Pasteur Institute.
These eminent research workers, the report states, have discovered certain
parasites in the appendix of every case which they have examined. It is
further stated that there are three kinds of these parasites or intestinal
worms, the most dangerous of which is known as the trygocephal, and it is
this which causes the acute pain. Appendicitis is neither contagious nor
infectious, but it frequently becomes epidemic in character, more particu-
larly in hot weather. According to Professor Blanchard, the common vege-
tables of everyday use may contain parasites which set up Appendicitis.
Fortunately, however, there is a certain preventive of this dire scourge,
Appendicitis, which, if regularly adopted, will render us immune against its
attacks. This remedy is Kutnow’s Powder, which, when taken before
breakfast in a glass of water, quickly removes all parasites, foreign bodies,
and poisonous matter. It cleanses the entire system and gives renewed
activity to the digestive organs so that any waste matter instead of remain-
ing in the body and forming an irritant poison is regularly removed each day.
DR. H. E. WHITFORD writes:—
“ Chicago, Illinois, May 2.
“ Dear Sirs, —I find Kutnow’s Powder particularly valuable ; in children’s
cases, and also those cases of recurrent attacks of appendicitis, accomplishing the
two things necessary—balance of stomach and free evacuation of ailmentary canal.
I am, dear Sirs, yours faithfully, “ H. E. WHITFORD, M.D.”
DR. J. BOND SULLIVAN writes:—
“Knock, Ennis, Co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Having recently got from you a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, from which I
personally derived much benefit, will you now kindly send me a larger supply ? I
really feel unsatisfied without it myself, and I have recommended it to several lady
patients, who approve of it greatly. An aged clergyman to whom I recommended
Kutnow’s Powder tells me he finds it both effective and agreeable.
“J. BOND SULLIVAN, M.D., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), &c.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN writes:—
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, Southampton, Oct. 22.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publishing my testimony concerning
the excellent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it years ago.
In my case it has proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver
and kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort, and
regulating generally the whole organic system. “(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”.
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON
(late Town Clerk of London)
wrote:
“Guildhall, London, E.C.
“Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in stating
that for the last two years I have regularly used
Kutnow’s Powder, with the result that troublesome
and frequent attacks of lumbago, with other gouty
symptoms that had troubled me for years, seem to
have entirely disappeared.—l am, dear Sirs, yours
faithfully, “JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which
are sometimes sold for a few pence less. The
purchaser, through a misdirected spirit of
economy, little thinks that he is the means of a
direct incentive to fraud. The genuine and
original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly re-
commended by all leading physicians for the
stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on
getting Kutnow’s, which you can obtain at all
conscientious chemists throughout the world.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imita-
tions and know
HOW TO GET GET! JINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
REV. J. M. DRYERRE, LL.B.,
WRITES :
“Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset, Nov. 9, 1906.
“ Gentlemen, —It may be of some interest to you
to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder from
time to time with most excellent results, and I
consider it only fair to acquaint you of the benefit
I have experienced from so useful a remedy, which
fully carries out what it is advertised to do.
“ (Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., E.R.G.S.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & GO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.G.


Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
: Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual orice, £5. Sale price .. .. . .£2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts; Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue —nested free.
X
S)
IP ss
&
:5V
<5;
5V
SO
<V
SS
/
'T rN>
/ /
A CURE FOR
DRUNKENNESS!
FREE fcr writing.
WE ARE GIVING- AWAY FREE SAMPLES
OF THE WORLD-RENOWNED
EUCRASY. A BOON TO
WIVES, MOTHERS, AND SISTERS.
CURE FOR SONS, BROTHERS,
HUSBANDS.
EUCRASY DRINK CURE.
This Cure for Drunkenness has shed a radiance into
thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does its
\Vork so silently and surely that, while the devoted wife,
sister or daughter looks on, the drunkard is reclaimed
without his knowledge. A lady who, a few months ago,
Cured her husband with EUCRASY, he who had been a
hard drinker for years, now writes us that she has also
cured a near and dear relative, and makes a most earnest
appeal to all other women to save the drunkard.
FREE. If You Mention Tins Papfr.
WE ARE GIVING IX AWAY.
Send for Booklet and Sample. Enclose 6d. in stamps for
postage. This is a Genuine Offer.
CALL OR ADDRESS—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
©2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
HYPNOTISM
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic
influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
"The Scientific Wonder of the Age." M pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS,
29 O’CONNELL STREET,
SYDNEY.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Oserine fits cea?e. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when
every other remedy had failed. English Price 4/6
*nd IX'-. Thousands of Testimonials.
OF AM. CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
WHOI.ESALE AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT PROPrt LTD., SYDNEY.
Prepared bv 1. VV. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
26 Hitrh Street, Belfast Ireland.
if I
...
m*
Tells it
to tHe .
THE. BUSY MAN
DICTAPHONE
and doubles the working capacity of the stenographer—saving 50 per cent, of the Cost
besides. Every one. of your stenographers is now wasting, unnecessarily , about one-
half of her time in taking dictation and in waiting for it.
THE BUSINESS DICTAPHONE SYSTEM saves all this wasted time, and en-
ables each stenographer to keep busy all day, entirely with typewriting, or part type-
writing and part other office work.
It also makes typewriting very much easier and more pleasant for the operator.
Incidentally, THE BUSINESS DICTAPHONE SYSTEM saves half of the
Dictator's time and enables him to dictate at any speed and at any time—always ready
and always accurate .
THE BUSINESS DICTAPHONE SYSTEM is as easy to install and learn as it is to
maintain, and there are no objectionable or annoying features to either Dictator or
Operator.
The DICTAPHONE is in daily use in some of the largest business houses of the world.
Call at our showrooms and see it in operation, or write for Booklet “ C.D.” which gives
complete information.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Qen.’l,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST TALKING MACHINE MANUFACTURERS IN THE WORLD. Wholesale and Retail*
tag
This is the Razor
That shaves you well.
That never scrapes or drags.
That requires little stropping.
That gives you a perfect, clean and comfortable
shave 365 days in the year.
Price 10/6$ Post Free anywhere.
A FEW EXTRAS
The Film Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning SStai per.er, Od
Cake Universal Sl aving Soap, Cd
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Hand e, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
i£&
W
A
i
H
m
m
r,
m
ic
m
i
i
Y our F uture
Is
Known!
YOUR FORTUNE FREE,
Be Guided by the Stars.
TO introduce my unerring ASTROLOGICAL SYSTEM throughout Australia I will, for a limited time,
send ,vou FREE, an Astrological Horoscope of your life, if you will send your name and
address, date of birth, sex, if married or sniffle, and //- for postage, etc. I want to tell every reader
of The Bulletin what the future has in store for them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and
years to brighten their lives ; what sorrows, disappointments and reverses are hidden in the future, most of
which can be avoided if you only know how to go about it.
One Shilling, Stamps or Postal Note, and a Horoscope or Reading of ycur
Life, together with my interesting book “ Your Destiny Foretold,” will he sent to you in a plain envelope.
When you receive this reading you will discover how absolutely correct, as well as wonderfully helpful it is,
and you will be glad to write me when you wish to know what to do about the future, for success in love,
marriage, speculation or business. You will, lam sure, be pleased to go out of your way to advise your
friends''to consult me, and in that way repay me for the cost of the Free Horoscope I send you.
DON'T DELAY. . Consult Me To-Day.
Thousands Ark This Dat Blessing The Hour They First Wrotk Me.
Address, p ro £ Henri De Astro,
366 BourKe Street. Melbourne
To Water Jacket Foremen
and Machine Miners.
WANTED on or about 7th SEPTEM
BEK next.
Three Water Jacket Foremen .
Also a Number of
Machine Miners.
For further particulars, apply
NYMAGEE COPPER LIMITED,
NYMAGEE, NEW SOUTH WALES.
m
■MoNTSERP^I
Sauce
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
JJak. your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
I CURE FITS.
What I think of ray remedy for Pits
doesn't so much matter; what you think
of it is much more important-therefore
I wiU give you a bottle of it to try before
buying any. It speaks for itself! I guar-
antee it to be the best and safest remedy
for Fits yet found. I have given away
over 70,000 bottles of it during the past
20 years, and have testimonials of cures
from all over the World If you, or your
people, care for restful nights and health-
ful days you will do well to
TRY IT.
A simple and safe remedy—approved by
the Medical profession.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45. Museum St., Bloomsbury, London,
’ England.
Send 1/- to pay parcel post to the Colonies.
FREE
Your name, initials, eie., on
all articles purchased from our
large stock of Novelties suitable
for Presents, such as Em-
broidered Handkerchiefs, Em-
bossed Glassware, Silver ana
Electro-plated Goods. We are
late of N.Z. Ex. so give us a call.
KEEGAN BROS.,
8 Sydney Arcade, George and King Sts., Sydney.
“ Diana” Houssaye,
folio size Photo,
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
PHOTOS
With 700
illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 »
Money Order or Stamps oi *
country! Sample Collections
Photos, and Post Cards at oi '
101-1 20h, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE PARIS
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
RODS
Cdw. NORTON.
For Locating MINES*--’
lost treasure* 0.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 ktampi-
fid Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
SEE OUB CATALOGUE
*km.
Of Novelties, Curious Musical
ments. Cheap Sheet M “ic. V'"‘ ef •, H „ m e
Pocket I.amps and Scarf nns, &c
Type Outfits, Name Brooches, &c an d
It
m
RRIMAHITS INDIAN CIGftRETTES.
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nen^ojCou^**
SSKSr B b fSM^W r B e inwan cioJ-
ETTES. Soid by all Chemists.
The GRANDEST LIVER PILL iix the WORLD
“ Take a Cockle’s Pill ” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world, whenever a furred
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of cleansing the liver and bowels.
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these famous pills act readily, surely and safely.
Of all Chemists, at prices from 1/1$ to 22/-
COCKLES ANTIBILIOUS PILLS


VICTORIA (S
Collins &SwansfonS*MelbourneJr
WEST. AUSTRALIA /'/L
395&397 Hay St Perlt\
QUEENSLAND
Queen & Edward St? Brisbane'
NEW ZEALAND
H 6& 143 Queen ST. Auckland
12*3 LambtonQuay. Wellington
236 8-25% HighS I ;Christchurch/
Princes 8- DowlingS'? DunednrJ^
/
/
N
m.
K
%
Xm
m
r\
t
\
V)
v (
*»
1
7JM.
yHE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “It’s an Honest
Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you never find it mis-
lead you. If you want just such a Watch we can recommend for your
perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest Watches, prizes for which range
from 14/6 to £7O. We will be pleased to post a copy to any who will
make the request. We mention on this page dependable Watches, any
of which we will send free and safe by post, together with our written
guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
The Presentation Watch.
S. D. & Co.’s Gentlemen s Gold Keyless Half Chronometers
are the very best make, highest possible finish throughout. Finest
f-plate movement, Chronometer Balance, adjusted to keep correct
time in all climates. Brequet Spring to counteract shocks caused
by jumping, riding, &c. Jewelled in the finest rubies, perfect key-
less action, Damp and Dust Proof, 18-ct. Gold Heavy Cases, suitable
for merchants, bankers, and professional gentlemen generally. These
Watches are unsurpassed as timekeepers, or in elegance of design,
quality, and excellence of
manufacture. Warranted
for 10 years. Price
Price with Double Hunting
Cases, £27 10s.
a
The “Derby”
Double Chronograph.
Our “ Derby ” Double Chronograph gives an instantaneous record
in minutes, seconds, and fifths of seconds of any racing event. The
chronograph works act quite apart from and do not interfere with
the time-keeping of the watch in any way. It has perfect start,
stop, and fly-back action. The movement is f-plate and jewelled in
rubies, is fitted with
Brequet spring and
with fine compensating
balance, with 18ct. Solid
Gold Case and Crystal
frontpiece.
Price, with hunting
cases, £22. In silver,
£6 10s. Open face, £7
10s., hunting.
t
IwlwlwlvlwlJTwT
ff it's from
Stewart Dawsom's
s@| >ls good.
Write the
store nearest
you.
©©©©©©©©©©©©©
For the Average Man
we find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach,
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance. The
movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels. Brequet spring, and compensation balance. The
winding is keyless, and the cases are of the Hunting style,
made of Hall-Marked Solid
Silver. We guarantee and
sell this Watch for
We supply this Watch
in two Higher Grades, £4
10s. and £6 10s.
The “Premier”
Watch .
This is the highest quality of Silver Watch made. The
movement is the celebrated English Lever, and is finished
by hand. It has all the improvements which go towards
the making of a high-grade watch, and it will be as good
after 20 years’ wear as it was when new. The Hunting
case is a solid, hall-marked Silver one, thus ensuring
durability. Fully jewelled,
brequet hair-spring, com-
pensation balance, ad-
justed. The price is
4
ST
A Special Dust
Protected Watch .
and one that has met with general approval, is the “Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, hut lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, f-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance, and has full Hunting Solid Silver Cases. A
splendid country;
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it, to-
gether with our
warranty, for
y MAKERS PRICE 'S
The Lady’s
Gold Filled.
The ideal Watch for a Lady. Ladylike in size, and in
the exquisitely decorated genuine Gold-filled Case. Key
less, of course, and fitted with a real good quality Elgin
Lever movement. A watch of beauty, a watch of satisfac-
tion, and guaranteed to outwear two or three cheap all-
gold watches. Price only
Price with 25 years’ guarantee,
14ct. Gold-Filled Cases, £5.
A Three-Quarter
Plate English
Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full-plate Watch. The balance-wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance,
English Lever Watch,
with guarantee, for
9
The Famous
“ Nonpareil ”
Lady’s Gold Watch .
These Magnificent 18-ct. Gold KEYLESS “NON-
PAREIL ’ WATCHES are truly a specialty amongst
specialties, much recommended to ladies who desire a
unique, compact, and elegant inexpensive gold watch. The
entire Watch is most exquisitely finished, fine full jewelled
movement, 18-ct. Gold Strong Cases, perfect keyless action,
convenient and reliable.
Hunting Cases.
Price, with open
face, £6 10s.
I
gHHif
The Steel Lever.
We can recommend this watch for Country wear, the
Steel Cases being so strong and fit so closely that dust can-
not penetrate. The movement is al5 Jewelled one, Key-
less, | Plate, with exposed winding wheels. We find them
to be most excellent timekeepers, and they have a large
and ever increasing Sale in all our 8 different Establish-
ments throughout Australasia.
Price only
Price with Crystal
Open Face, 255.
For the Woman who
takes note of time
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order 'by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement ' 1
and winding work, etc.,
is on the same system as
the men’s size. "We will
post one free with guar-
antee on receipt of
s
The Old Reliable
Keywind English Lever.
This is the good old reliable English Hunting Silver
Keywind Capped and Jewelled Lever Watch. We have
sold this make of watch throughout the civilised world
during the past 31 years, and we can truthfully say they
have given general satisfaction. The movement is a gilt
and jewelled one, and is fitted with compensation balance
and a dust excluding cap. The case is a substantial one of
Hall marked silver. The
price,
Price, with three pairs
extra, jewels, £4 10s.
Open face, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
©a
An Ideal
Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Keyless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
With 14ct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £lO 10s.; with lOct.
Gold Hunting Cases, £8 10s.
>*
Special Gold
Waltham .
For a gentleman nothing can be more suitable than the
14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Waltham Lever Watch. It is
handsome in appearance and not at all bulky— is a depend-
able timekeeper. The works are f plate to allow the
balance wheel to be out of danger, below the level of the
top plate. It has 15 Jewels, Compensating Balance and
Brequet Spring.
Price
Price, with Best
Movement and
18ct. Cases, £2l;
lOct. Gold Cases,
£lO 10s.
1
Get a Gold
Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure; buy
it now when you would really find satisfaction and delight
m it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine f-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this excep-
tional one, with
full case and move-
ment guarantee,
for
Special Circular
on application.
(•>


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, lias been discovered, which is
now comxdetely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takiEg them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective,
o Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendicLy on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. Bkanch Office :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1690.
* QUIRES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your ohemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
For a half century its use*
and fame have been ex-''
tending. Now millions use it. For'
it shines brightest, and it shines long-
est. It is easily put on, and it cannot
rub off. The clothing is not soiled, while ’
the shoes are softened and preserved by its'
use.
Especially is it appreciated for ladies’ and ]
children’s shoes, which it keeps in perfect con- ]
I dition.
Made only by
L. Hauthaway & Sons, Inc.
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
001
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
B Al/SAMI or AN ISO^D
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable
remedy for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Throat
Troubles. Read the following proof of its efficacy: —
The Rev, Wm. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle“ For the past twelve years I hare been in
the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your balsam. I should not be exaggerating if i said
I had never known it to fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it in preference to anything else, and again and
again it has cured me.”
Mr. Lionel Brough, the eminent actor, writes: —“ I think it an invaluable medicine for members of my
profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and sister artistes.”
Mr. A. J. Woodhousb, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-tbe-Sea, Norfolk, writes: —“Last year Powell’s Balsam of
Aniseed cured forme a very obstinate cough of some mouths’ duration, which I feared would lapse into a
pulmonary affection.”
SOLO BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE,
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blacßfriars, LONDON, England.
SOLP WHOLESALE AGENTS for NBW SOUTH WALES and QUEENSLAND
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY,
and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
tPGpmPw
VaMSAMop^
'** * D L 1
[R®jp
0
y
mvJm
©mils
A
Save Your Hair
There is no reason in the world why you
should not have a luxuriant and abundant
head of hair. You have no more right to be
bald than to have corns. Both corns and
baldness are the direct results of carelessness.
Some people believe that their hair will keep
on growing forever by Divine Right, and yet
these same people will take scrupulous care
of their teeth, cleansing them night and morn-
ing, and going regularly to the dentists.
The Cause of Baldness
Your hair is just like any vegetable growth.
It grows out of and depends upon a soil to
nourish it. That soil is your scalp. When
your scalp becomes thin and wasted your
hair will die. Dandruff is simply particles of
the dead scalp which have become dry and
peeled off. You could go on for years pour-
ing preparations on your hair, and yet it
would still continue to fall out. The root of
the evil is in your scalp. Grass will not grow
in a dry, waste soil. Hair will not grow in a
dry, wasted scalp. Nourish your scalp, sup-
ply it with new and strong flesh tissues that
in turn will feed your starved hair roots.
This is the secret of abundant hair.
How to Prevent Baldness
Chronic Baldness, (when the head is com-
pletely bald and shining, and the scalp is tight
and unpliable) is incurable. When the scalp
is dead nothing can bring it to life again, but
when the scalp is starved, there is one scien-
tific way of nursing it back to life. That
way is Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. It goes di-
rectly to the cause of the trouble, and by
nourishing and rebuilding gives the hair roots
a vigorous, healthy scalp out of which to
grow thick, abundant hair.
Our Guarantee
We guarantee that Barry’s Tri-coph-erous
will grow hair in all cases except those of
chronic baldness (tight shining scalp). Noth-
ing can grow hair in chronic cases. We also
guarantee that Barry’s Tri-coph-erous will
absolutely cure dandruff and falling hair, and
instantly stop itching. These statements are
honest truths, backed up by the testimony of
hundreds of grateful men and women from
all parts of the world.
Warning
The success of Barry’s Tri-coph-erous has
made many Trade Thieves who would steal
its “Good Will” with the people. These
Trade Thieves are Imitators and Substitutors.
Beware of the Clever Salesman with his Just
as Good” story which common sense refutes.
Barry’s Tri-coph-erous is made in New Yoik,
U. S. A., and across the end of every wrap-
per is this trade mark.
Trademark
Notice the name Barclay & Co.
The abundant, creamy, antiseptic lather
of Reuter’s Soap imparts a soft fluffiness
to the hair. It dives to black hair that
delicate blue black, and to blond hair tbs*
dolden brightness so much desired.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES —IV>
Packet of Twelve, Is 5 Packet of


RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ XJRIOA”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindled ailments.
These rings are scientifically |
made irom specially prepared
metals with lour zinc and three copper
coils foi ming a complete battery.
The natural moisture of the finger
connects the coils, causing a gentle
current ol Electricity to circulate
throughout the whole body, which dis-
solves the uric acid crystals.
Prices, Post Free. —White Metal, 2/-;
Silver, 3/6; Gold filled, 3/-, 5/- and 7/6;
SEND FOR SIZE CARD POST FREE.
DUNKLING, The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET., MELBOURNE.
THe
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sig'Kt”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BIvICK £.lO <a £.12.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
L h ! Britisft=Hustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
j)avid Draham $ [o.
MERCHANT TAILORS, MERCERS,
anti SHIRTMAKERS,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Our New Spring Suitings
are arriving by FORTNIGHTLY
SHIPMENTS during the Season;
While Novelties in TROUSERINGS, VEST-
INGS, NECK WEAR, etc., reach us by
Parcels Post EVERY MAIL.
SOLE AGENTS IN N.S.W. for
AERTEX CELLULAR
Underwear and Shirts.
Illustrated Price
List & Samples
Post Free.
DAVID BRAHAM& CO.
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
me
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
Fof 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting,
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne;or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.'’
“Hermes”: I have seen some lovely
scenery in the course of a well-spent, itinerant
life, but National Park (Sydney) by moonlight is
easily first in its own line. Just below the boat-
shed the river is dammed, and the surplus water
trickles through floodgates. Last night I strolled
down through the crisp winter air and found the
peace that reigns at high tide. The only sounds
were those of fish leaping into the moonlight.
Whether there was a tragedy going on in those
placid depths, or whether the leapers were merely
taking fin exercise, I know not, but the effect was
very fine. The road wound away along the banks
of the river, between the almost perpendicular
hills, and the moonlight, pouring down on it in
floods, turned it into a mixture of mirror and
black and white silk. There was a far-off booming
noise. “ Distant thunder,” I said. “An emu»
for a fiver,” whispered my companion. And then,
with all the grace of Beau Brummel and the
whole line of Caesars rolled into one, there stalked
down the lonely road an emu. He was quite
friendly, and pulled up to see if we had any
biscuits. As he paused a swan, acting on a sudden
inspiration, suddenly tried to fly across the moon-
lit water, and turned the silk into a tangle of
Honiton lace. The noise disconcerted the emu,
and with a muttered “bom bom” he strode off
somewhat hastily. Further on a ’possum, roosting
on a rail, sprang up a tree, and from a branch
about 10ft. high regarded us with an interested
expression. He was a big ’possum, too. All the
animals out there are fairly tame, as they are pro-
tected, and dogs, unless led by a rope or chain,
are not admitted. Half a mile further on we
found a family of wallabies holding some revels
on a little patch of lawn-like sward. The younger
ones danced about, and the old ones strode round
with grace and dignity—marvellous how dignified
our native animals are. They, too, were suffi-
ciently tame not to make a bolt for it when they
saw us, but gambolled on as soon as we were
comfortably seated on the fence. The wallabies
are very venturesome. Almost every midnight
or early morning they came lolloping along
the verandah at Mclntosh’s accommodation
house. The children leave them scraps of cake
and biscuits. They are also fond of sugar. When
the tails are heard on the long verandah the
children steal out of bed and gaze ecstatically
through the windows at them, and one old
wallaby, more venturesome than the rest, always
comes close up and has a look at the round, dis-
hevelled little heads on the other side of the glass.
But the others, including a little baby black
kangaroo with the most beautiful eyes in the
world, make off to a safe distance. Then the old
father wallaby takes a last look at the afternoon
tea tables, and, picking up any unconsidered
sweets, makes off after the main mob. Paddling
up and down the river by night and day we have
kept a sharp look out for the platypus; but
if he is there he keeps well out of sight. It
is a lovely place, and the marvel is that so
few people should spend their spare time there.
In another six weeks it will be a mass of
bloom, with gorgeous flowers hanging from every
ledge, and all the little swamps filled with bright-
colored flowers of the heath variety, which will in
time give way to the Christmas bells—the things
that look like miniature lancers riding through
the grass.
“F. Mac.” discourses on a Melbourne
suburban Private Enterprise tramway :
I wanted to go to the Saltwater River the other day by
the quickest "route, and was informed that the new
electric car service would meet my requirements, so I
decided to try it.
Proceeding by train to Moonee Ponds, as instructed, I
was agreeably surprised to find a car v aiting in Puekle-
street for the train passengers, but before I could reach
it, it apologetically “ding-dinged,” and proceeded on
its way.
It stopped 50yds. up the street, so I broke into a trot,
and succeeded in getting within 15yds. of it before it
evaded me.
Seventy yards along further it stopped again, and I
careered joyfully after it. But the car left./
As soon as the conductor was satisfied that I would
not run again, he stopped the car. Then an idea struck
me. I argued that an open attack was fruitless, and that
strategy must be employed to get on the car. So,
stealthily hiding behind grocers’ signboards, letter-
pillars, and policemen, I crept on towards the car. The
conductor was ignorant of my manoeuvre, and, with a
wild and woolly shriek, I jumped on before he noticed me.
I glared exultingly around me, and sat for three
minutes. There was a jolt—and I found myself being
conveyed back at the rate of 2£ knots per hour —back to
the dust from whence I sprang. The car was on its
return journey.
It seems the track mileage of this service is about
300yds., and its main purpose is to convey the railway
passengers from the station to the main track. I was a
train passenger, and I can safely say I never covered the
ground so quickly before.
At the junction with the main track I found three sad-
looking cars. I asked one conductor if he was going to
the Saltwater River. After mature consideration, and in
view of the circumstances, he was very decidedly of the
opinion that his present intention was not in compliance
with my wishes, and he therefore regretted his inability
to proceed to the place in question. He did not say that.
He just said “ Nar ! ” As No. 2 conductor was busy talk-
ing to a girl, I left him, and asked No. 3 would he go
down, but he was unable to meet ;.iy wishes, as he was
going out into the Great Beyond—the same as the other
two cars. So I waited 10 minutes, and along came my
car.
After going about a mile or so down Mt. Alexander-
road, I was informed by the conductor that I would have
to take another car, so I got off and waited 12 minutes.
Along came a car and stopped at the corner. As the
motor-man did not seem to mind where he was going, I
put the question to him plainly. I asked him waB he
going to the Saltwater, and he said “No l ” As he still
stayed, I offered him 2s. if he would be the Saltwater
River car. He sadly shook his head, and darkly hinted
at inspectors. Then he jogged along the road for a little
trip.
In about nine minutes another car came along with a
nice old gentleman driving it. I explained the position
to him, and he said he was not going to the Saltwater
River. I reasoned with him, and after a while he
whispered, “ You stay here till I come back and I’ll take
you down there.” I thanked him profusely.
After waiting ten minutes, I began to think of things I
had read about these nice old gentlemen and their rich
uncles from Fiji, and I grew cold and doubting.
But I decided to wait for him. Sure enough, after a
little run down Mount Alexander-road, he came back
again.
Then I noticed that his car had “ Mt. Alexander road ”
on it, and as every one of the other cars, bar one, that I
had seen bore the same mysterious inscription, I began
to doubt again.
However, I stayed on board till he headed up Union
road, and started to take me back to the Moonee
Ponds Station, from which I had departed an hour and
three-quarters previously. That was too much for me,
so I precipitated myself on to the road, and took a cab,
and eventually reached my destination 2J hours after I
left Moonee Ponds Station.
It seems that this service runs round three sides of a
square, and starts up the fourth side, but changes its
mind, and goes back. It is a Private Enterprise line.
The multiplicity of offices held by N.S.W.
country clerks of petty sessions is responsible for
some rather curious records. Some few years
back a CJ.P.S. in a country district up New
England way registered in one day, for the same
man, a water right, a dam site, a residence area,
a baby, and a dog.
jm EST. 1847. V j
All cocks
PLASTERS.
A universal remedy for pains in the back (so frequent in the case of
women). They give instantaneous relief.
A
For pains in the region of tne
Kidney*, or for a Weak Back.
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcook’s Plaster,
Wherever there is
a pain a Plaster
should be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chests,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica,
&c., &c.
Insist upon having
Allcock’s
For Rheumatism nr Pains m
Shoulders. Llbowsorelsewhere,
or fur Sprains, Stiffness, etc.,
and fur Aching Feet. Plaster
should be cut size and shape re-
quired and applied to part affected
as shown above.
Brand reth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic
For Constipation, Biliousness,
Headache, Dizziness, Indigestion, etc
established 1762.
Twenty Times Cheaper than
Electricity.
Five Times Cheaper than
Town Gas.
CAPEL’S SUCTION GAS PLANT
Is the astounding result of Twentieth Century Engineering Science.
Power is gained by making the Gras whilst the engine is running, and
some idea may be gained of the saving established by the fact that a
Ten-Horse Power Engine can be run for
LESS THAN A PENNY PER HOUR.
Send for Illustrated Circular and further particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO. LTD m 9 So/e Agents,
7 & 9 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY. Works: Mort’s Bay, Balmain.
A. ®> F.
9
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels)
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
ltd


THE LABOR PARTY™ the LAND SCANDALS
THE TESTIMONY OF “HANSARD.”
In view of the continued efforts of the Labor
Party to free themselves from their Parliamen-
tary responsibility of acquiescing and participa-
ting as “ the loyal allies ” (vide speech of Mr.
Holman) of Mr. Crick in the policy of land
administration which culminated in the land
scandals, a perusal of the following records, taken
from Hansabd, and the reports of evidence given
before the Lands Commission, will be of interest
to readers.
The value of these will be appreciated by the
thoughtful elector, if it be borne in mind that the
case of the Caucus Party rests, firstly, on an asser-
tion that there were no facts put before them to
enable them as an intelligent and watchful section
of Parliament, to understand what was being
done; and, secondly, on the allegation that no
action was taken by the then Opposition that gave
them a fair opportunity of condemning the policy
of Mr. Crick.
It is not suggested that the Labor Party was
cognisant of the fact that the huge fees, the pay-
ment of which was disclosed by the Royal Com-
mission, were being paid to secure Improvement
Leases; but, having regard- to the frenzied de-
nunciations in which they are now engaged, of the
policy of locking up large areas of land for long
terms in few hands, it is indispensable to
the proper enlightenment of the public that
pointed attention be drawn (1) to the fact that
they were, beyond all doubt, aware, both gener-
ally and in detail, of the way land was being let
under Improvement Lease; and (2) that, notwith-
standing this knowledge, they—the all-powerful
third party, without whose countenance the policy
could not have been continued for a single day—
not only resolutely abstained from taking any
action themselves, but also refused to lend effective
aid in the attempts that were made to prevent
what they are now asserting so vigorously must be
cured.
On the 28th July, 1903, Mr. Nobbs, the Opposi-
tion Whip of that date (on behalf of Mr. Millard)
asked the Secretary for Lands, “What area of
land has been leased under Improvement Lease
during the period from Ist December, 1902, to
the present date ; also what area has been
offered ? ” Mr. Bennett, on behalf of the Minis-
ter, replied:—“7o6,2s6 acres leased; 1,072,832
acres offered.” Hansard, p. 1017.
Later in the day on which these questions were
asked, attention was drawn in a very vigorous
fashion to the proposal to grant the now famous
Burrawong leases, and a strong protest was made
against it. Upon the motion for the adjournment
of the House, Mr. Moore, the present Minister
for Mines, spoke on the question of the Burra-
wong leases. In the course of his remarks, Mr.
Moore said (Hansabd, p. 1068).
There is a large area of 23,000 acres of land in the
Condoublin electorate which is to be sold under improve-
ment lease to-morrow. The Farmers and Settlers’ Associ-
ation in the district, who are well acquainted with all the
conditions, have strongly protested against the land
being so locked up. We have just had a long debate on the
unemployed question, and a number of speakers have
stated—and I fully agree with them—that the best solu-
tion of that difficulty would be to settle the people on the
land. Whilst everyone admits that every possible induce-
ment should be given to people to settle, we find this
policy being persisted in of locking up areas under im-
provement lease which are suitable for settlement. This
land is quite close to a railway line. The people who
have the best knowledge of this land—the Farmers and
Settlers’ Association—say that this land is eminently
suited and urgently needed for settlement.
An Hon. Member : What is the area of the land ?
Mr. Moore : About 23,000 acres. If it is suitable for
settlement, not only is it an unwise thing that has been
done, but it is absolutely illegal to offer it under improve-
ment lease. . . . Hon. members can see from the plans
the position of the land. It comes close up to the railway
near Oondobolin. The description says:
“ The land consists partly of red friable soil'intermixed
with a little clay, suitable for wheat-growing and grazing ;
and partly low gravelly ridges and rich black and clay
soil, low lands well suited for grazing ; the greater part
of the timber is dead. Rainfall, about 18J inches per
annum. Rabbits exist. Situate from 9to 16 miles
easterly from the town and railway-station of Oondo-
bolin.”
That is not a bad rainfall for that district, and the land
is within the wheat area This is not a matter affect-
ing one district only ; it is a question of land policy, and
I want to emphasise this fact: that not only is it an un-
wise thing to let this land under improvement lease, not
only is it a wrong policy to adopt, but it is absolutely
illegal. The law is perfectly clear on the subject.
Four other members of the Opposition spoke in
support of Mr. Moore’s demand that the land
should be withdrawn from sale. Another gentle-
man also spoke. That gentleman was Mr. Alfred
Edden. deputy leader of the Labor party, who
said :
1 think every hon. member present, the members of
the Government included, will pay heed to the remarks
of the hon. member (Mr. Moore) who has just spoken.
He is not a man who makes statements without ground
for them. !In justice to the hon. member for Condoublin
(Mr. Clara), I should like to say that, at our last meeting-,
shortly after the unemployed deputation which waited
on us on Thursday last, that hon. gentleman stated that
there was a matter which, in his opinion, was of as much
importance to the welfare of the community as the un-
employed question. The hon. member for Condoublin
has been very ill to-day. He placed a notice of
motion for adjournment in the box, and if it
is possible for you, Mr. Speaker, to confirm wtiat I say,
you may do so. You, Mr. Speaker, know that the hon.
member for Condoublin placed a notice in the box that
he would move the adjournment of the House to discuss
the very matter referred to by the hon. member for Bin-
gara. The hon. member, however, has been so ill that
he has been unable to remain in the House. I think the
case made out by the hon. member for Bingara is one de-
serving the serious attention of the Government. To
lock land up in the way referred to by the hon. member
is a wrong and a shame. Whether the Secretary for Lands
is or is not present, I think the Prime Minister should take
it upon himself to have the sale postponed. I say that
in all earnestness, because as I have already mentioned,
the hon. member for Bingara as a rule is not, to me a
common phrase, guilty of wild-cat statements. I think
I am right in what I am going to state now—if I am not,
I hope hon. members will correct me ; but I understood
the hon. member for Bingara to say that if this course of
procedure is followed the laws of the country will be
violated.
\
Mr. Moore : Hear, hear !
Mr. Crick was not present when the discussion
took place, but a promise was given on behalf of
the Government that the sale, fixed for next day,
would be postponed. The following day (July 29,
Hansard, p. 1907), Mr. Moore said :
I desire to ask the Secretary for Lands if he has any
objection to inform the House what action he has taken
respecting the matter of the Burrawong improvement
leases referred to in the House last night ?
Mr. Crick replied
In my absence the Minister for Public Instructon prac-
tically gave a promise that the matter would be post-
poned, and for that reason alone, I have postponed it till
next Wednesday. Had I been here I should have de-
clined to postpone it.
On the 4th August, Mr. Clara, labor member
for Condoublin, said (Hansard, p. 1211): —
I desire to ask the Secretary for Lands, in the
face of representations made here, does he intend
to have the sale of the Burrawong improvement
leases carried out to-morrow.
Mr. Crick replied :
Yes, undoubtedly. I made up my mind a long time ago,
and it was only an accident the sale was postponed,
through some very good friends of mine springing a de-
bate on the question after I had gone home, without giv-
ing any notice to me. To-morrow, if I am alive, the
leases will be sold.'
Here was the opportunity offering to Mr. Edden
and his party to step in effectively and prevent
the locking up of land in the Burrawong Improve-
ment Leases. No action was taken, however, the
leases were sold, and the Labor Party didn’t
bother. The following day (August 5, Hansard,
p. 1272), Mr. Wood (member for Bega) said :
I desire to ask the Prime Minister, in the absence of the
Secretary for Lands, whether he will lay on the table of
the House the papers in connection with the granting
of improvement leases on the following leasehold and
resumed areas : Burrawong, Mercadool, Quambone,
Warren Downs, and Quabathoo, Bunarbra, Midkin and
Wangra wally.
Sir John See : That is rather a large order. If my hon.
friend will forward me a list of what he requires I will
see what can be done to-morrow. I cannot lay the
papers on the table of the House now, because the Lands
Office is shut. I suppose the hon. member has an object
in asking for these papers.
Mr. Wood : Yes, I want to see them.
Sir John See : And I want to know what the hon.
member’s object is.
Mr. Wood: My object is to gain information for the
House.
Next day, nothing having been done, Mr.
Wood (Hansard, p. 1311) addressed his question
to the Secretary for Lands personally, as follows: —
Mr. Wood : Yesterday I asked the Prime Minister, in
the absence of the Secretary for Lands, for the production
of some papers relating to the granting of Improvement
Leases on certain Leasehold and Resumed Areas, and the
Prime Minister informed me that if I would give him a
list of the area he would consider the question of laying
the papers on the table of the House. I should now like
to ask the Secretary for Lands if he will lay those papers
on the table this afternoon.
Mr. Crick: I'most certainly \y>ll not. I see from
Hansard that the hon. member’s question yesterday
related to six different sets of papers, the preparation of
which would involve a vast amount of labor. The hon.
member must take the ordinary course to get the pro-
duction of these papers, viz., by moving for them in the
usual way.
Mr. Wood : I shall move for them in an unusual way.
Mr. Crick : The hon. member may move how he likes.
On August 6, two days later, the Labor Party
were furnished by Mr. Wood with another first-
class opportunity of showing whether they really
took any serious interest in what was being done
in connection with Improvement Leases. On that
date, Mr. Wood moved (Hansard, p. 1311)
That there be laid on the table of the House all papers
and documents relating to the granting of Improvement
Leases during the last twelve months within the leasehold
or Resumed Area of the following holdings Burrawong,
Mercadool, Quambone, Wangrawally, Warren Downs,
Quabathoo, Bunarbra, and Midkin.
In the course of his speech he said :
The papers I have asked for relate to the granting of
improvement leases on certain areas. One of the areas
referred to is Burrawong, upon which improvement
leases have been granted recently to the extent of 40,000
acres under circumstances which at least have given
grave reasons for difference of opinion on the part of
members as well as on the part of the general public.
The Burra wong matter was discussed at some length here
the other night, and insinuations were made to the effect
that something wrong was being done in connection with
our land policy. There is some difference of opinion as
to whether it is wise for the Government to continue the
policy they appear to be following, and I think X am
justified in asking that the Secretary for Lands should
furnish the House and myself with the only information
which can possibly be obtained to determine whether
right or wrong is being done. I venture to say that the
people were astounded when they recognised that a
million of acres had been dealt with as Improvement
Lease in six months, some of the land being not
more than three or four miles from railways or country
towns when we were assured by the Minister that no
land was going to be made available during that period.
The House endorsed the statement of the Minister that
no land should be made available, but when we find that
a million acres have been dealt with, I think that we
have a right to ask for this information. The only way
we can get information is to have the papers placed on the
table of the House, so that every member can refer to
them and form his own conclusions. lam forced to take
the course I am now taking, as I have asked the Minister
on two occasions to lay these papers on the table.
Another reason why I desire the papers to be laid on the
table is this—every Improvement Lease contains certain
resumption reservations, but I notice in some cases the
resumption reservations have practically self contradic-
tory clauses in them.
Hansard, p. 1313, shows that Mr. Carruthers
and 29 of his followers—but no Labor Members —
voted for Mr. Wood’s motion, while the division
list shows the following Labor Members voting
for Mr. Crick :
Messrs. Burgess, Cann, Edden, D. R. Hall,
Hollis, Jones, Kelly, H. Macdonald, Neilsen,
J. Storey, Sullivan and D. MacDonell.
The names of these representatives of Labor
may be read in conjunction with the statement
made by Mr. Holman during the Blayney elec-
tion, as follows :
Although some members agreed with Mr. Wood, the
party, as a whole, being allies, loj ally stood by Mr. Crick
and voted against Mr. Wood.
On October 6, information was sought on the
subject of granting an extension of term to cur-
rent leases, a practice afterwards judicially
declared to be illegal. Mr. Rose asked Mr.
Crick (Hansard, p. 3040)
(1) Is it a fact that land already granted under the
tenure of Improvement Leases on Coppymurrumbil hold-
ing have recently been put up b3' tender as Improvement
Leases, to commence on the expiry of existing leases?
(2) Is it a fact that such existing Improvement Leases
will not expire for about 14 years?
Mr. Crick answered :
(1) Yes.
(2) In one case the existing lease will expire in 1918,
and in the other will expire in 1910.
The next day Mr. Rose inquired if the advice
of the Crown Solicitor had been taken “on the
legality of granting Improvement Leases on Im-
provement Leases ” ? The answer was “No.”
This information having been elicited, Mr. Wood
on October 20 (Hansard, p. 3430), asked the House
to disapprove the course that was being adopted
of extending the term of current Improvement
Leases. He moved :
That in the opinion of this House the action of the
Secretary for Lands in granting prospective Improve-
ment Leases of land now held under lease is illegal and
contrary to the spirit of the law.
In the course of his remarks in support of his
motion, he said :
My object is to take a test vote of the House on this
specific subject quite apart from any other subject
with which it might at a later stage be confused.
My only object is to get what I think should be a pro-
per verdict from the House as to the legality or ille-
gality in its opinion of the action of the Minister. No
hon. member, Minister included, could take offence at
such a course.... As pointed out by the hon. member
for Argyle the other night an extension of an Improve-
ment Lease has been granted in the case of a lease-
hold called Ginghet. That has been extended from
1921 to 1928, that is to say the lease does not expire
in 1921, but an extension has been granted seven years
ahead from 1921 to 1928. In the case of another lease-
hold, Trialgara, an Improvement Lease has been granted
from 1921 to 1928. In the case of Coppymurrumbil, the
area of which is 18,000 acres, an Improvement Lease has
been granted from 1918 to 1928. In the case of Polly
Brewon an Improvement Lease has been granted from
1923 to 1930. In other cases extensions have been
granted from 1918 to 1926. What I want to
emphasise is this, that prospective Improve-
ment Leases have been granted over the country
which must revert to the Crown at the expiration of the
leases. . . I hold that Parliament stands above Ministers.
Whilst Ministers are entitled to put the most liberal
views they may think fit on sections of the law, they are
not supposed to go deliberately outside the law and flout
Parliamentary authority. In this instance, the Minister
has deliberately flouted Parliamentary authority. My
reason for asking the House to give a direct vote is this :
I want the House to say whether they are prepared to
support Ministry-made or Parliamentary-made laws. If
there are provisions in the Act to justify this line of con-
duct, the Minister would have full opportunity of putting
them before the House ; if there are none, it would be the
clear duty of honorable members to vote in support of
the institution of Parliament to which they belong
against the Minister, and as the representatives of their
constituents to give voice to their right to make legis-
lation.
In the division on this motion (which under the
rules could not be spoken to except by the mover),
Mr. Carruthers and 27 members of his party—-but
no Labor members—voted with Mr. Wood, while
the following members of the Labor party re-
corded their votes with Mr. Crick
Messrs. Burgess, Griffith, Hollis, Jones, H.
Macdonald, D. MacDonell, McGowen,
Nicholson, Storey, Webster and Daley.
The motion was lost, and again the Labor party
were instrumental in preventing the remedial
action.
On October 20 (Hansard, p. 3424), Mr. Wood
referred to the Wingadee leases :
Mr. Wood : I desire to ask the Secretary for Lands if he
will be good enough to lay on the table of the House
papers relating to the Improvement Leases recently dealt
with on the Wingadee leasehold area, Nos. 1,2, 3, 9
Mr. Crick : Whatever they are, the hon. gentleman had
better give notice in regard to them !
Mr. Wood : I ask the Minister if he will be good
enough to lay these papers on the table of the House ?
Mr. Crick : I shall take no notice of the hon. member 1
The next day (October 21), as the following
extract from Hansard (p. 3465) will show, a fur-
ther effort was made to obtain information re the
Wingadee leases:—
Mr. Bosk asked the Secretary for Lands,—(l.) What
amount was the highest tender for lands gazetted as
available for improvement lease on Wingadee holding on
22nd August, 1903 ? (2.) Who was the highest tenderer?
(3.) Whose tender was accepted ?
Mr. Crick answered, —(1.) £306 Is. 3d. for block No.
1239 ; £313 10s. lOd. for block No. 1240. (2.) Sydney H.
Gurner. (3.) Michael F. Hayes. Mr. Hayes was the
person who asked for the land to be offered, and was
allowed to bring his bid up to the highest tender. I
may state that there is a regulation allowing that to be
done.
The Michael F. Hayes, referred to above, is
the Granville letter-carrier, who did not answer
to his name when called before the Royal Com-
mission, and who transferred the lease which was
granted to him to Mrs. W. N. Willis. The per-
sistent abstention of the Labor Party from lending
any assistance to the attempts that were being
made to ascertain exactly what was being done
might have been due to sheer want of knowledge.
But to show that the members of the Labor Party
were giving serious thought to the question of
Improvement Leases in the Coonamble district,
although abstaining from effective action, it is
only necessary to quote a few passages from
evidence given by Mr. G. A. Burgess, M.L.A.,
before the Royal Commission :
Mr. Hanbury Davies : On 18th April, 1902, you addressed
a letter to the Coonamble Independent upon the question
of Improvement Leases? Yes, I wrote a letter in 1902.
Were you a member at the time? Yes.
It would appear you took a good deal of interest in the
granting of Improvement Leases at that time ? Yes.
A number of leases were granted about that time?
Yes.
And that is the reason you wrote this letter ? Yes.
In your opinion they were improperly granted ? Well,
yes, they were.
Improperly, I take it from your letter, because the land
was suitable for settlement ? Suitable for closer settle-
ment.
It was such country as did not come within the 26th
section of the 1895 Act ? That was my opinion.
In the letter you wrote to the Press, you say that very
suspicious circumstances attended the granting of these
leases, and you speak of grave suspicions, mentioning the
fact that Mr. Hall, member for Gunnedah, introduced a
deputation were you present at that deputation? I
cannot say now.
You say:
Mr. D. B. Hall, M.L. A., of Gunnedah, who introduceda
deputation relating to the so-called Improvement
Leases on Tuesday, Ist April, very aptly remarked
that certain grave suspicions have been engen-
dered in the minds of the people. Mr. Crick
asked, “ Where were the suspicious cases?”
Great Scott ! where are they? Why here in the
place I have quoted, and lots of other places.
What were the grave suspicions to which you refer ?
Suspicions in the minds of many people. It was thought
that this land was being improperly dealt with.
Did suspicion arise in your mind ? I had no suspicion
of the things which had been shown to have taken place,
but I had a feeling that this land should not be given
away in Improvement Leases.
The Commissioner: Gn what grounds ? The land, in
my opinion, was suitable for closer settlement.
Mr. Hanbury Davies : You go on to say :
When a Minister distorts and misapplies an Act of
Parliament, is not this enough to make anybody
suspicious ?
Suspicious of what? I cannot say what was meant by
the word “suspicious.”
What did you mean when you wrote, “Is not this
enough to make anybody suspicious?” I suppose I meant
that a certain amount of suspicion would arise in one’s
mind.
The Commissioner : Suspicion of what ? Suspicion on
account of the misapplication of the Act.
What did you suspect? I do not know that I can
explain exactly what I did suspect. I had no idea that
anything illegal was being done. It was simply that in
my opinion the 26th section of the Act did not apply to
the land which was being leased.
Then it comes to this, that the letter was written to
point out that these leases were being improperly
granted, because the land did not come within the cate-
gory of land to be granted under Improvement Lease, as
determined by the Act ? I did not think that the section
in question was framed for that particular class of land.
Did you call attention to the matter from that point of
view in the House ? I cannot say that I did.
Why did you not, if you held such strong opinions on
the subject? Well, I cannot say why I did not.
It was important enough to write about at considerable
length? Yes.
Did you not think it was your duty as a member of Par-
liament to call the attention of Parliament to this viola-
tion of the law ? Attention was called to it.
By you? No, by others.
By whom? I believe Mr. Hall and Mr. Wood both
called attention to it.
And Mr. Carroll? I cannot say'.
Mr. Fitzpatrick? Perhaps he did.
Did you support those gentlemen when they called
attention to a state of things which you disapproved ? It
is so long ago that I cannot say.
Is it not important enough to remember? Ido not
believe I did support Mr. Wood.
In the light of the foregoing, can any member of the Labor Party truthfully say
(1) That they did not know what was being done to block that closer settlement in the
cause of which they are now so earnest.
(2) That they did not have abundant opportunity to assist in preventing the mischief
that has been done ? Why did they refuse to assist ?
Judge the Labor Members not by what they are now saying, but by what they did and what they did not
do when attempts were made to prevent the locking up of the land in Improvement Leases.


STARCH TRADE SLANDERS REFUTED
TO THE PUBLIC OF VICTORIA.
We have, up till the present, ignored the many untrue and unwarranted statements which have been made recently regarding
ourselves and other firms engaged in the Starch Trade, Our experience, as business men, is that usually very little advantage
results from newspaper controversy, and we therefore came to the conclusion that the reputation of this firm for fair and
straightforward dealing would enable us to treat with contempt these unwarranted and malicious attacks.
As, however, the assertions made regarding starch wages have now been made the cover for personal attacks upon Mr* Robert
Harper during his absence from the Commonwealth, we have decided to place the actual facts as briefly as possible before the public:
Slander No. 1
It has Been stated that the wages paid in
our starch factory prior to Mr. Justice
Hood’s Award were lower than the rates
generally ruling for similar work in other
trades.
The Refutation
This statement is untrue. The average
wages paid by us prior to the award were
higher than the average wages paid in all
other Victorian Trades working under simi-
lar conditions, that is, not under Wages
Boards. The figures are as follows :
Wages of Male Workers
Average of the weekly wages paid
to male workers (boys and men)
in our factory prior to Mr. Jus-
tice Hood’s Award ... ... £1 12 6
Average weekly wage paid to male
workers (boys and men) in all
Victorian Trades not under
Wages Boards £1 12 1J
Wages of Female
Workers
Average of the weekly wage paid
to female workers (girls and
women) in our factory prior to
Mr. Justice Hood’s Award ... £0 14 10
Average weekly wage paid to
female workers (girls and
women) in all Victorian Trades
not under W T ages Boards ... £0 13 6
These figures effectually disprove the asser-
tion that the wages paid in our factory, prior
to the recent inquiry, were lower than those
generally ruling for similar work in other
factories.
Certain evidence was tendered at the
recent inquiry by some of the employees in
the trade. We think it is hardly fair to
take isolated cases in connection with which
special circumstances may obtain, and to
make general deductions from these cases.
The figures we give, and which are absolutely
indisputable, amply prove that the general
average of our wages was not only fair to
our employees, but was even generous when
compared with the general average for other
trades.
Slander No. 2
It has also been asserted that the wages
fixed by Mr. Justice Hood are too low, and
that they are not as high as those in other
similar trades.
The Refutation
This statement is also untrue. The wages
fixed by Mr. Justice Hood are as high as, or
higher than, those fixed by no less than 60
determinations of Wages Boards, and are
higher than the average wages ruling in all
factories in Victoria. The figures are as
follows :
Wages of Male Workers
Average weekly wage paid to male
workers (boys and men) in our
factory since Mr. Justice
Hood’s award ... ... ... £1 15 7
Average of the weekly wages paid
to male workers (boys and
men) in all Victorian trades ... £1 15 21
Wages of Female
Workers
Average weekly wage paid
to female workers (girls and
women) in our factory
since Mr. Justice Hood’s
award ... ... £0 18 0|
Average of the weekly wages
paid to female workers (girls
and women) in all Victorian
trades ... ... £0 13 10^
The figures for Victorian factories given
in paragraphs 1 and 2 are based on the
returns in Appendices B and C in the last
published Report of Chief Inspector of
Factories (1905).
The above figures are absolutely indispu-
table, and prove conclusively the incorrect-
ness of the accusations made.
Slander No. 3
It has been stated that where there was
any difference between the wages paid in our
factory and those paid in other starch fac-
tories our wages were lower.
The Refutation
This statement is also untrue. The
average wages paid in our starch factory
prior to the Arbitration Award were as high
as, if not higher than, those paid in any
other starch factory in the State. This was
amply proved by the sworn evidence pre-
sented to the Court.
Slander No. 4.
The statement has been made that the
starch manufacturers produced balance-sheets
in Court to influence the Judge to fix a lower
wage.
The Refutation.
This is also untrue. The balance-sheets
and statements of costs were produced by
order of the Court, and against the wishes of
the manufacturers.
Slander No. 5.
The Slander. It has been asserted that
we take credit for the subscription given by
our employees to the Hospital Saturday Fund.
The Refutation. This is simply a malicious
untruth. It was decided some years ago to
adopt the system of subscribing one penny
per week (or less) to the Hospital Saturday
Fund. The amount so subscribed is sent
and acknowledged year after year in the
name of the employees in precisely the same
way that subscriptions are acknowledged
from the employees in other establishments.
It is untrue to say that we ever endeavoured
to take any that credit for the amount so
subscribed.
Slander No. 6.
The Slander. —It has been stated that be-
fore any men are engaged at our factory Mr.
Robert Harper questions them as to their
religion, etc.
The Refutation.—This is nothing more
nor less than a deliberate untruth. Mr.
Harper has not engaged any men for years
past, and in any case would be the last man
to interfere with any man's religious belief.
Amongst our employees are to be found men
and women of every denomination, and pos-
sibly some who belong to none.
Our Relations with
our Employees.
Our relations with our employees have
always been of the most friendly and cordial
nature. Mr. Harper has on various occa-
sions shown his interest in their welfare,
and they, we believe, have reciprocated the
feeling.
The following letter, received by Mr.
Harper shortly after the last general elec-
tion, from some of the employees in the
Starch factory speaks for itself :
Starch Employees Write
to Mr. Harper
“ 15/12/’O6.
“To the Hon. Robert Harper.
“On behalf of the employees of the No.
2 (Starch) Factory in your firm, we heartily
congratulate you on your success and the
splendid majority you obtained at the
General Election, and in doing so we feel
that we cannot but recognise the fact that
you have proved yourself all through your
political career a staunch, true, and honest
employer and representative.
“We remain, dear sir,
“ Your obedient servants.”
(Here follow the signatures of nine of our
starch employees, all being adult workers,
with the following years of service : —l5, 11,
9-g, 8,4, 3,3, 1, 1 years respectively.)
Mr Harper Replies to
Starch Employees
To this letter Mr. Harper sent the follow-
ing reply
“Dear Sir, —I have received very many
letters of congratulation on my return to
Parliament, but I frankly confess that none
has given me greater pleasure and more
satisfaction than the letter signed by you
and eight others on behalf of the employees
in No. 2 (Starch) Factory. It perhaps is
known to you that the Labor candidate who
opposed me made a great feature in his
speeches of denunciations of me as an em-
ployer, denouncing me as a sweater and all
sorts of things. Your very kind letter is
the best evidence of the falsity of his state-
ments. Will you kindly convey the con-
tents of this letter to those who signed
yours, as well as to others in the employ of
the firm.
“ Yours sincerely,
(Signed) “ ROBERT HARPER.”
The present attack, we believe, has origi-
nated outside of our establishment, and has,
we believe, been made for political purposes.
There can be no other explanation of the
virulent personal attacks which have recently
been made upon Mr. Robert Harper by
those ,who are opposed to him politically.
Contemplated Freetrade
Attack
The opportunity is being taken advantage
of by Freetrade members of Parliament,
some of whom, we are informed, have gone
so far as to visit our factory during the
luncheon hour with a view to extracting
from our men material for an attack upon
Mr. Harper and upon us as a firm. We
think that this method of obtaining infor-
mation will hardly commend itself to fair-
minded men and women.
Fair Wages and Friendly
Employees
We place these facts before the public,
and leave them to form their own opinion.
We claim that we have always paid fair
wages—that we have paid as high wages as
any starch manufacturer in the State—that
the average wages paid by us are higher than
the average wages paid in all the factories of
the State. That our wages are nearly twice
as high as those paid in English starch
factories ; and that we have always been on
most friendly and cordial terms with our
employees.
A Summary of the
Position
The position may be briefly summed up as
follows :
1. The average wages paid in our factory
prior to Mr. Justice Hood’s Award were
higher than the general average wages paid
in other Victorian factories, working unde r
similar conditions ; and were as high as, if
not higher than, those paid in any other
Victorian starch factory.
2. The average wages paid in our factory
since Mr. Justice Hood’s Award are higher
than the general average for all Victorian
trades, and are nearly 100 per cent, higher
than those paid in English starch factories.
3. Even higher wages than those now
being paid would be favored by us provided
they were paid by all Australian starch-
makers, and provided that adequate protec-
tion were afforded to local manufacturers
against the products of foreign low-paid
labor.
The facts given above are absolutely indisputable, and prove our position up to the hilt. We think that the public will agree with us that under
these circumstances there is no justification for the bitter and malignant personal attacks which are now being made, mainly by his political
opponents, upon Mr. Harper and upon us. It appears to us particularly unfair that such attacks should be made upon Mr. Harper at a time when he
is absent from the Commonwealth, and therefore unable to defend himself.
ROBERT HARPER & CO. PROPRIETARY LIMITED,
Manufacturers of SILVER STAR STARCH.


HIGH-CLASS
CLOTHING^
Visitors to tRe Show
will find it to tßeir
advantage to PAY US
A VISIT.
A 70/- Sac Suit
Made to your order
FOR 50/-
WE STOCK ...
Men’s and Boys* Clothing and
Mercery of the Best Kind
at tHe Lowest Price.
Boots and Shoes, Ladies’ and
Gent’s, of KeitH, Selz, Ford,
and Australian Make.
Woodrow’s, CHristy’s, Knox
and Australian Hats
and Caps.
LINOLEUMS, CARPETS,
FURNISHINGS.
Lincoln, Stuart Co.
244 to 254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
To
Measure
•• and ••
Ready
Made.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OUR FAVORITE” «OLD KSAMKI, (Washable) Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames. Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
"SAPOLIN ES AMELB.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
"SAPOLIN” BATH TUB ENAMEL. In White, Ilose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS”
OLD
SCOTCH
Whisky.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
44
Post Free 6d. from “
Bulletin " Office
The
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
“0.T.”
The Great
Australian
Drink.
£lOO
Reward.
“0.T.”
The Premier
Winter
Beverage.
PUBLIC NOTICE
The extraordinary success of “ 0.T.” in
every State of the Commonwealth has
brought, into the market more than the
ordinary number of imitations—the pro-
ducts of unscrupulous traders, who seek to
take advantage of the wide publicity given
to the popular beverage, and to hoodwink
the public in their endeavour to pass off an
inferior beverage as the genuine “ 0.T.”
These counterfeit preparations contain
none of those pure, health-giving in-
gredients that have made “ 0.T.” so popular,
and the trader who gives you one of those
so-called “just as good” substitutes does
so in order to swell his profits at your
expense. The proprietors of “ 0.T.” offer a
REWARD OF £lOO
for information leading to the conviction of
any persons wilfully misrepresenting or
selling an inferior beverage as “ 0.T.”
You know what you want—don’t let the
trader choose for you.
Residents in country districts are par-
ticularly warned against the many un-
scrupulous imitations of “ 0.T.” that are
on the market. The genuine “ 0.T.” bottle
has a Red Chillie label, and carries the
manufacturer’s name and address. No other
beverage has the same strength, the same
health-giving properties, the same delicate
flavor as “ 0.T.”
THE COUNTRY HOUSE DRINK,
One bottle of “ 0.T.” will make from
twenty to thirty good drinks, and mixed
with either water, soda, lemonade, spirits,
or wine, it gives a delicious, palatable
beverage for all occasions. Keep a bottle
in the house, and if guests drop in unex-
pectedly, you have a delicious drink ready
for them at a minute’s notice. If such un-
welcome guests as Indigestion, Influenza,
Chills, or Colds call, you have a very
effective remedy but insist firmly on
J. DIXON & CO.’S “ 0.T.”
r u ™f? J. DIXON (& CO
HIGH STREET, PRAHRAN, MELB.
Sydney Agents : OR ME, KEIGWIN & CO.
•9
so
O soap gets
close as shaving
soap. Therefore, in no
soap is purity so im-
portant. The creamy,
antiseptic lather of
Williams’ Shaving Soap
leaves the skin even
better for its use.
Williams
Shaving
Stick
Williams’ Shaving Stick is put up in a strong,
handsome metal box, covered with maroon leather-
ette. It is not only the most convenient form for
travelers, but is constantly growing in popularity
with those who shave themselves at home.
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all over the
world, or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps.
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets,
Is.; Williams’ American Shaving Tablets. 6d. (Trial size) of
Williams’ Shaving Stick, 2d.
The J. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Bussell St., London, W. C.; 4 Kue Chauveaux Lagarde,
Paris; 161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South Wales. Head
office and factories, Glastonbury, Conn., TJ. S. A.
K-'.S'X
'
TT
(H
Consult HERR MSSHIISSEH.sp.ci.iisi
'n-all Private, Nervous. Skin and Blood Diseases and all Specific Complaints of Men and Women. No
tercury. Cures Guaranteed. ALL DISEASES OF WOMEN CURED.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY
Pile Powders, c 'l'at-Redueing Powders, 6/-; Liver and Kidney Pills, lI-
KLFALINI
f
'SflTAll Cure the Nerves, Debility
, Strengthen the Spine, Bva.in & Nerves
They secure the Return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish Self-Confidence and Prevent
Melancholia, Despondency and Despair. Boxes, 6/- & 12/-Courses,23/6, Special Powerful Double Courses,43/6
VARICOCELE, PILES, RHEUMATISM, STRICTURE, GRAVEL CURED
No matter of how long: standing/, Cured
by ALFALINE BLOOD PILLS, 12/=, 24/= & 44/-
Head Office: 547 George Street, Sydney.
BLOOD DISEASES


'mm
m
<r»
e-
DADItS Slf»
And Tired Fretted
Mothers Rest After
warm bath with Cuticura Soap
J a single application of Cuticura
ntment, the great Skin Cure, will
ord instant relief, permit rest and
ep, and point to a speedy cure of
turing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
hes, itchings, and irritations of infants
J children when all else fails.
Guaranteed absolutely pure, and
y be used from hour of birth.
old throughout the world. Depots: London 27
i| q^dn^ U i e n d d!al a B P
ta - Chinai Hong Kong Drug Co.; Japan, Maruya,
. a Tokio; Russia, Ferrein, Moscow; South Africa,
mon. Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A., Potter
le & Chem. Corp.. Sole Props., Boston.
JLpo S t-free. Cuticura Booklet on Care ol Skin.
This Lady’s Beaded
Evening Shoe
This is one ol the finest Evening Shoes we’ve ever
had to offer you. The insole is padded so that per-
fect rest for the foot is ensured. The beading is very
chaste, whilst the shoe is perfectly finished in every
detail; very light in make, yet staunch.
Price, 18/6. Posted in Victoria, 9d. extra ; to
other States, 1/2 extra.
for
18/6
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price It can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glac6 Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in or lering.
Price, 14-16. Posted in Victoria, 1/- extra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swans ton Street, Melbourne,
303 Chape / Street, Prahan,
1 St 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
no,ooo
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed II! No. 3.
and ketvt laughing. Red Harry ta
The Inky Way.
Lewis L. Collins, of Launceston (Tas.), who has just
gone globe-trotting, is a curious evolution of the press-
man. For years, he was sub-editor of the Examiner. He
had a rather rough time of it, and swore a great oath that,
at the first chance, he’d chuck up the press and never
read a paper again— e.\c pt the ads. He had a mercan-
tile turn of mind, and he saw so many people trying to
collect the bad debts of his colleagues that he became
convinced that dunning was a great industry. So he
turned up his billet at the Examiner office and opened a
dehts recovery establishment, which has developed into a
lucrative Trades Protection Institute. Lewis finds thati
the bad dehts of others are more payable to him than the
sure wages of the Examiner. And now he has made his
exit to talk to Asquith about the National Debt, and tell
him of some dun-dodgers he has known.
* * * *
The Inky Way itself isn’t all spread with Turkey ear-
pets, but there seem to be even more ruts and thorns in
the track of the “ literary agents ’’—the folk whose
business it is to guide people on to the paths of'Litera-
ture. Anyway, that Sydney agency which lately
announced itself with a great rustle of circulars, now
sends out other circulars to say that “in our literary
business we meet an enormous number of people desiring
suitable accommodation ’’—ergo, of course, an apartment
agency has been established, and in odd moments
snatched from sortingout the Muses the agents will sort
out landladies. And if the Guides of Genius stay in the
business long enough they will also meet an enormous
number of people with a poem in each pocket and the
skeleton of a drama in their boots, who desire beer and
beef. This obviously points to the fact that every literary
agency should likewise run a brewery and a butchery.
It might also run a bootery.
* * * *
One of the joys which befall the daily pressman is the
danger of being stoushed by his friends. Perhaps the
most revolutionary of all Sydney scribes, a man who has
always voted Labor since he was “that high,” and who
is ready to lend a hand to erect a barricade at any
moment, was singled out by a Laborite at McGowen’s
Protestant Hall meeting as a Myrmidon of the “ Lying
Rags,” and threatened with personal violence throughout
the evening. And at one of Judkins’s Melbourne meet-
ings, a reporter who was a personal friend of Wren and a
bitter enemy of Jud. was singled out by the Wrenites, and
enveloped in the same volley of eggs that demolished
Judkins himself. Many people who attend a meeting
immediately assume that the presence of the pressman is
proof of his hostility, and treat him accordingly. And
his salary isn’t large enough to make up for that sort of
thing.
* * * »
Harrie Brennan, late Ballarat representative of the
Argus, is now “ subbing”on the Evening Herald. Bren-
nan wanted to go to Melbourne for the Freetrade journal,
but the proprietors objected, as two of his brothers were
already on the staff. “ People might think that the
Brennan family ran the Argus,” said Cunningham.
“ Perhaps so,” replied Harrie, “ and after all one ought to
have some regard for the reputation of one’s family.”
THE SILENCE OF DAVID SYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Age will begin to be a Victorian echo of Carru-
thers, if David Syme doesn’t watch out. A recent sub-
leader objected bitterly to Queensland and Westralia
sending agents to entice Victorian fanners away to the
Northern and Western States. . . . It doesn’t really matter
to Australia what State the Australian lives in, but if
David Syine has the provincial love of country, why
doesn’t he help Victoria to retain its farmers by advo-
cating a graduated land-tax ?— Bulletin, 16/5/’O7.
'Tis a darksome mystery which for long has puzzled me,
And I ask forthwith of thee, per this rhyme:
Are you gagged or dead or dumb ? Are you paralysed
or numb —
Won’t you pound Australia’s Drum,
David Syme ?
You have scarified Yes-No —You have laid the fetish low
Oobden fashioned long ago. Proper thwacks
Have you showered upon the crowd who to Britain’s joss
are bowed,
But you vend a silence loud
Re that Tax !
Bitterly you weep and wail when by steamer and by rail
Landless farmers take the trail. Yea, with wrath
Westralia you revile ; and with leaders by the mile
You expound the horrid guile
Of the North 1
But, alas! you never rage up and down the printed
page—
Nay, the curses of the Age never light
On the bloated squatter crew—on the local landlords,
who,
All unknown, it seems, to you,
Grip us tight!
Why this attitude absurd ? Not a solitary word
At the acre-swollen herd do you aim.
If the farmer has to pack—if he’s forced to turn his back
On this State, and take the track—
You’re to blame !
Can it be that you yourself are so freighted down with
pelf
That you’ve laid upon the shelf, out of sight,
All the Democratic tenets that once urged your slashing
pen ? It’s
Up to you to slog again—it’s
Time to fight !
It is time to train your guns on the squatter push, whose
runs,
Stretching far, Australia’s sons ought to till ;
Can’t you hear Australia call? Into farmsteads, fine and
small,
You can pound the stations all.
If you will!
You can sweep the soil-lords clear off the map—athwart
the sphere
You can haul the farmers here. David, think !
There’s a missile at your hand that would wake the sleepy
land,
That would smash the squatter band—
Printers’ Ink !
With your printing press a-roar you can batter down the
door
] Of the Dead House, whence Pat’s snore echoes now ;
j You can smite fat Thomas Bent with your printing im-
plement,
Till the vast estates are rent
By the plough !
| With a Graduated Tax for your shining battle-axe,
You can deal almighty whacks at the Gate
Where the fool Carruthers dwells—you can storm the
citadels
Where each shrill State Frighter yells,
In each State !
You can make this Country stir. To the blessed
sepulchre
All the pests who trouble Her, you can drive ;
Ere you falter to the grave, will you lift a standard
brave—
Aye, the Commonwealth to save,
Will you strive ? :
Ere Atropos’ kindly shears clip the cordage of the years,;
Will you hustle, grim and fierce, for this Land ?
Would you help Australia on? Free the lands, then,;
silent one—
Ere your earthly days are done,
Lift your hand !
'Tis a darksome mystery that your lips should silent be,
And I ask forthwith of thee, per this rhyme :
Are you gagged or dead or dumb ? Are you paralysed or
numb—
Won't you pound Australia’s Drum,
David Syme?
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
a
A
The KAISER’S CUP.
First Five Cars all with
“ MiCHEUN'’ TYRES.
In the Race for the Kaiser’s Cup, held at
Hamburg- on June 15, the First Five
Cars Home were fitted with MiCHEUN
TYRES. The successful competitors had to travel
300 miles over a course that was most trying because
of its extreme roughness and hilliness. The winner,
Nazzaro, averaged 54 miles an hour, which gives some
idea of the terrific speed conditions of the race, and the
fact that the First Five Cars in such a severe contest
were fitted with MICHELINS is another most con-
vincing proof of the reliable qualities of these World-
famous Tyres. Sole Australian Agents—
BAR.NET GLASS (Sb CO.,
144 Clarence Street, SYDNEY; 226 Flinders Lane.
MELBOURNE; 10 McHenry Street, ADELAIDE.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, and Brisbane.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., Vl.
Packet of Twelve ... Is.
Packet of Ten lOd.
A NEW DEPARTURE
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
(CONCENTRATED)
NON-ALCOHOLIC
2/6 BOTTLE 2/6 BOTTLE
Responding to the urgent requests of many sufferers, the proprietors have
decided to introduce a concentrated, non-alcoholic form of that valuable medicine,
Warner’s Safe Cure, under the title of “Warner’s Safe Cure (Con-
centrated) The price of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is 2s. 6d. per
bottle. The bottle is one-fourth the size of the ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure,
but it contains the same number of doses, the dose being also one-fourth, namely,
a teaspoonful instead of a tablespoonful. The medicinal value is the same in each
case, the medicinal contents of a ss. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure being con-
centrated into a 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated).
So well known are the beneficial effects of Warner’s Safe Cure in all cases of
kidney and liver disease, and complaints arising from the retention in the system
of uric and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
A nee mi a
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick headache
that the introduction of the 2s. 6d. bottle of Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated)
cannot be regarded otherwise than as a public boon.
Warner’s Safe Cure (Concentrated) is so.ld by all Chemists and Storekeepers or
will be sent, carriage paid, on receipt of price, by H. H. Warner and Co. Limited,
Branch. Melbourne.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-styeet.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ R Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413.289 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial f||utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 collins 'street, Melbourne.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenter-field.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)oui Zooland.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—i
FAIR INTEREST.
BAST TERMS.
WE
&
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
[Qont depietefl.il. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq", J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grlmwade,
JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
:l Pitt St., SYDNEY.
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia :
Write for Prospectus. li
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Gnoe, Esq.;
•lon j. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” .by Edward Dyson.
Best book of Australian humor, 4s. (id.
snipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 24th SEPT.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 22nd OCTOBER.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal j)ank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
♦MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
I A. Simpson
jN. Allan ..
| R. McKilliam
.. I Noon, Sept. 13
M Noon, Oct. 11
.. I Noon. Nov. 2
* Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
peor jL/uiua.. .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7/178.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
London
Cape or Durban
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000*ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to sail about 4th SEPT.
AFRIC, to sail about 2nd OCTOBER.
PERSIC, RUNIC and SUEVIC to follow^
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
¥ HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ISMSH
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B.C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States.
SAILINGS :
THE MOST ATTRACTIVE
ROUTE TO EUROPE.
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streeb, Sydney.
Public Notices.
The mining investment & agency company
(Capital £20,000), Albany Chambers, 230 Collins
Street, Melbourne, act as agents for Mining Investors
in every capacity.—Shares bought and sold on com-
mission. Calls paid and Dividends collected. Pro-
mising investments recommended. Confidential reports
supplied on Mines by staff of highly qualified and intelli-
gent experts. Sums from £5 upwards received for dis-
cretionary investment. Several sound investments now
offering at low rates.
W. BRUCE FOX, General Manager.
Voigtlander’s
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOICTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINCTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHiS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
-EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
£. CHAMPION'S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanston-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.
HENRY SKINNER,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Moat
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
HOTEL CECIL
GEORGE STREET, BRISBANE.
Tj'INEST and BEST-APPOINTED HOTEL IN QUEENS-
-H LAND ; large, airy bedrooms, magnificent situation,
near Botanical Gardens, Parliament and Government
Houses. The Queensland Squatters’ House. Lighted
throughout with electricity ; replete with every comfort.
Private Suites. Porter meets all boats and trains.
TARIFF—IOs. A DAY. Telephone 174.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gel, from The Bulletin Office.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australians
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Grant'Ua, Saturday,
August 17, at 1 p.ua.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, August 17.
S.S. Innamincka, Aug. 24.
Best and Cheapest Route to (lold/ields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. s. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows:
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON
(via Melbourne)
Calling at DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
The Fine Steamer,
“ RENT,”
9500 Tons A. G. McGIBBON, Commander
Will be despatched from Sydney
on 19th SEPTEMBER.
Has excellent accommodation for Saloon
and Third-class Passengers.
The Accommodation consists of all two-berth deck
cabins, on the upper deck situated amidships.
Electric Light throughout. Surgeon & Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
Durban ... £2O £lO £ll £l2
Capetown £22 10s. £lO 10s. £lllls. £l2 12s.
London ... £45 £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
CARGO RECEIVED AT THE F.H.S. WHARF,
DARLING ISLAND, Luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars and pamphlets, apply to
BIRT & CO., LTD., 7 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY,
Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
Fob
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 17.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, August 24.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
August 31.
ADELAIDE %
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, August 31.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
A ii" ust 17.
KONOOWARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, August 20.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
August 24.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Meeting.
The SYDNEY CO-OPERATIVE BREWING Co., LtdT,
Short Street, Leichhardt.
Sydney, 6th August, 1907.
\TOTICE is hereby given that the Seventh Half-yearly
Ceneral Meeting of Shareholders of the above
Company will be held at the Offices of the Brewery, Short
Street, Leichhardt, on THURSDAY, the 22nd day of
AUGUST, 1907, at 3.30 p.m.
BUSINESS :
1. To receive the Balance Sheet and Report of
Directors for the Half-year ending 30th June, 190 i.
2. To elect two directors in the place of Messrs. Richard
Gaut and William Joseph Adams, who retire in
accordance with the terms of the Articles of Associa-
tion, and are eligible for re-election.
And to transact such other business as may be brought
before the meeting in accordance with the Articles of
Association. PERCY F. HORLEY, Secretary.
Note.— Candidates who desire to nominate for the office
of Director must leave their nominations at the Registered
Office of the Company, at least 7 clear days before date of
General Meeting.


DR. J. DOLUS BROWNE’S
QHLORODyN E
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRH(EA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, <fec. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
SULPHUR
BITTERS
THE BEST AND
Purest Medicine
EVER MADE.
Don’t be without a bottle. You
will not regret it. Try it to-day. ,
What makes you tremble so?
Your Nerves are all unstrung, and
NEED a gentle, soothing TONIC
to assist nature to repair the damage
which your excesses have caused,.
Sulphur Bitters
IS NOT A
CHEAP
RUM OR
WHISKY
DRINK
to be taken by the glass like other
| preparations which stimulate only to
DESTROY. If you have FAILED
to receive any benefit from other
medicines or doctors, do not despair.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
In all cases of stubborn, deep seated
diseases, Sulphur Bitters is the best
medicine to use. Don’t wait until
to-morrow, try a bottle to-day.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
M-T* j j
Medicator, alza
3i laches loo g.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
_ Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
THE BALLET GIRL
i
Her Theatrical an(
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists 01 Books and Xouelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0., SYDNEY,
VIGOROUS
WITHOUT
X
J
K
Every man who is weak and failing- knows that there should be
“something” that will restore that “old-time vigor” to his body. He has in-
variably tried all kinds of medicine and found them a total failure. He
finds himself worse instead of better. If you have been paying money to
doctors and taking nasty medicines for years, and have derived no benefit
from it all, do you not think it is time to stop ? . . Twenty years
experience with Drugs and Electricity has confirmed us in the know-
ledge that Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will
replace and renew lost energy and vitality, and that our appliance is
the only practical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients tell us that medicines failed
to eupe them, and that Electricity as given by
DR. McUIIIHLIN'S ELECTRIC CELT
did cure them after they had tried everything else and had given tip Hope. It is
the grandest invention of the age for weak people. . . . No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever regret
giving it a fair trial, It has special attachments for men and women, and is within the reach of all. The price
is as low as £1 in many cases. We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of home treatment
in Australasia. Our Belt is the standard. . . . It is a quick and certain remedy for all cases of Debility,
Weattness of all kinds, Nervousness, Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vari-
cocele, Indigestion, Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and Bowel Troubles.
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong'
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
-very man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
: iKe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
THE McLAUGHUN CO
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
'■..epi: » coßct,....K Office Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McLaughlin go.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
3
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-' 1 welcome relief
in a very short time.
# V c#
C? <#
&
&
n OINTMENT
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION,
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and so encourage
business in your own district. If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
~ W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No, 5, First Floor, Greets Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.


“Genung”: “Goota day, bahss!” was
his greeting as I galloped back into my shop
from my midday sausage. “Goota day, bahss .
You very goota man, bahss ! Berry kind, poor
Indi man ! Me berry poor man. My cart dead,
my horse all broke up. You write letter me,
bahss? Two words. Me buy mout-organ, you,
bahss. Berry cheap mout-organ, very goota.
You write two words, me, bahss?” He held up
two thin, dirty, brown fingers whose nails showed
that he was in deep mourning for Nana bahib.
“You write Larfen Singh, Waak’beal, bahss.
Him fader no goota. Him tree year in gaol,
Agra. Him mudder no goota. She berry bad,
bahss. Him brudder no goota; him plurry tief.
Him sister no berry goota, bahss, in bazaar. I
fight him in Waak’beal. I fight him in Nheel. I
fight him in Muto. Him wife no goota, too,
bahss. Him shildren eat him cow, bahss. I
fight him Dimboola. I fight him anyway.” He
elawod the air viciously with his dirty talons.
“What you say, bahss? What him do me? Him
no goota, bahss. Him steal him treepence from
me. Him big tief, bahss, I fight him —no get
wild poor Indi man!” And when I refused to
write his libellous letter, he said, “Goota day,
bahss! ” And as he edged towards the door he
gave a parting word, “You berry hard, bahss.
Sell him no goota mout-organ. Berry bad mout-
organ. Goota day, bahss ! ”
“ A.D.” : London Daily Mail would
sooner fight a libel action than speak the truth
about Australia. It stated recently that hundreds
of British emigrants were being hocussed by our
Immigration Departments. When asked to supp y
facts concerning the hocussed Britisher, the S calt
Wail wrapped itself in several acres of the toga
of silence. But in the matter of disposing of the
rushful emigrant, Canada, in the view of th e W A
Tale, can do no Wrong. The Colonial Office h. s
iust been asked to inquire into the case of .-OU
Scotch farmers who were shunted into the wilds
of Manitoba, and left on their own to glare
towards the Alaskan frontier. One braw Scot
alleges that bears and Indians came out_ot_tne^
icebergs and made noises in his direction. Letters
from the deluded Canada enthusiasts are pouring
into the London papers, but very few ever see
print. Canada spends too much money on advt.
A group of Welsh emigrants state that theyhave
been granted 2000 acres of ice-field by the Cana-
dian Government. Most of them are certain
that land is underneath the floes and hummocks.
Another man selected 500 acres of frozen lake
under the impression that he’d annexed a bit of
flat wheat-growing country. The farmer who
grows ferns in Australia manages to keep his head
above the dust, and it is refreshing to hear that a
few of the Canadian “ Old Dads ” are developing
the magnificent resources of their great iceberg.
0
Cm
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
• • •
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITSHEALINGPOWER IS
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, COARSENESS PAIN OR SORENESS JN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON E C .
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and givi g ff b(jen
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption o eve op. .J? taken at
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken t
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
“it affords me great pleasure to testify to the marvellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F F. W. BINNS, Australian Journal Office, Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but mm®
succeeded until I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and tnree
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago. She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.
1 A. ORB, Clonbinane, Sunday Creek, Broadford, Victoria.
“ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis Cure acted splendidly. ’’—-Yours very sincerely,
b J F. C. GREEN, State School, Rosebud, via Dromana, Victoria.
“I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
j our Bronchitis Cure. UTTON, 7 Little Railway-street, Durban, Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and coughs.” __ .. w „.
A. E. ANDERSON, Telegraph Office, Fremantle, West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis Cure more than 12 months ago and he ® n
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my son, five years old, who has had a cold ever since he was born.
1 have only given him a few doses and he is better already.” w j . WISHART> Warwic k, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in mv family at different times for years past, I wish to testify to the relief
always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any complaint arising therefrom.”—Yours, etc.,
J J E. V. GODDARD, 19 Fitzgerald-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
“I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid ..results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts
b„o ina„ic. (Kev.) JAMES SMITH, Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld. Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
“I was a bronchial subject for nearly 40 years, but have found Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.
1 was a uroummti ou •> H. EDHOUSE, J.P., Stawell Brewery, Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is the best medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
Chest, and Sore Throat. (Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE, Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years and tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any
benefit I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la last Friday, and a bottle.of your No. b for obstinate
Asthma on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. .2 Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.
' ’ y V. CAMERON, “ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road, Hawthorn, Melbourne.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.” ",, , „ , _ ’ . .....
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES, Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte, South Australia.
“As mv purchases show, your remedies are increasing in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very much enlarged sale Ballarat .
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that lam cured. j -ygRIGHT, e / 0 Mr. D. McLean, Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis, during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now completely cured.”
usea two uouuiea y .tames WILLIAMS, Huntly Street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
««i suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
x suuereu " .. • <.. mVM TVierT doctors Patent medicines, and herbalists without
it a trial I used five bottles of your Bronchitis ana AStnma 'Jure, witn rne resun, unau - breathing
nd distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recommend
t to^all my friends ELIZA LANGTON, Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
“I am very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It e ||^ R at n!s.W.
<**>» --=H»Stfaas!
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending e |^°gf’ N.S.W.
» I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, of my Inverell> N>s>w>
“Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well. Melbourne
& ’ H. HOOD, Brooklands, Avoca Street, South Yarra, Memourne.
“ Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.” A ALLEN> ozone House> Lome, Victoria.
medicine.
> Kindly forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valuable
r ' in ° ” (Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
stock.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case 1 Sh ° U Trinkey, via Quirindi, N.S.W.
Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here. We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
WILLIAMSON & CO., Windorah, via Oharleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever taken. WILIjIAM g > Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify to the wonderful efficacy of your Bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect whatever.” LEWIS _ Kimbolton> via We iii n gton, N.Z.
“ I must congratulate you on the phenomenal sale of your Hamilton.
“ I ™ed your Bronchitis Cure myself, and SoufhAustraht”
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.” ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W.
“The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you Enoch’s Point,. viaDarlingford, Victoria.
“ I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each Sre^vfctorik
“ Your BronchitiB ° Ure 58 a WOnderfUl ““i SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny Street, Paddington, Sydney.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to inform you that your. Bronchitis Cure has done ns both a
wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.” r bassett> Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“We the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was
perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which undoubtedly prove its distinct healing power. S g
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59 other leading residents.
RFIA/ARE OF IMITATIONS / The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURU has induced a number of
£>£ rr/inc vr fini #" . v -i • t • „--n 1 -i.* n » rlp^oivinP l thfi simnle-
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,'
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects
has. Consequently it has become necessary to your attention to this fact, and to
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
with the object of deceiving the simple-
that HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
request you in your own interests to be
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
Ixo
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


Business, Robbery, etc.
“Agricola”: Once I languished behind a
■ hiiiter, but seeing .n time the error of my ways, I re-
formed, and have since earned my crust honestly. There-
fore, it does my heart good when I now enter a shop to
see the two-and-elevenpenny all-wool singlets stamped
“ cotton and wool.” The best linen hankies at 3s. 3d. a
dozen also modestly mention that they contain a dash of
cotton ; while the “ ivory ” combs at 4£d. blush to admit
that they are only xylonite after all. This is since the
tyranny of the Commerce Act compelled manufacturers
and shopkeepers to be comparatively honest. But an
Amending Act, compelling the dealer to state the per-
centage of admixture is badly required. It is a fact that
much of the stuff ticketed “ cotton and wool ” contains
not more than 5 per cent, of wool. Pepper branded
“ pepper with rice-flour ” ought to be sold as “ rice-flour,
with a trace of pepper,” for it is necessary to ladle it on
to your tucker with a teaspoon before you really know it
is there, and even then you rather see it than taste it.
r.iere is one fly in the ointment, however. Every store-
keeper to whom I have mentioned the subject claims
that he has advocated the Commerce Act for years past,
and that it is “ just the thing.” But I have not forgotten
the agonised cry which tore the welkin and other sun-
drieslike a great rending of cats and calico when the Act
was first discussed, and it makes me bitter to hear these
sharks claiming credit for it.
* * * *
Mining people are finding the English table of
weights too unwieldy and absurd for general use, so the
“ t°n.” which consists of the even 20001 b. is coming'
steadity into practice. In Westralia it is almost univer-
sal ; now the Harden (N.SAV.) announces the adoption
of the new plan. As practical proof that the decimal
system is found the most convenient, this goes a long
way. Unfortnnatel)', while some hang on to the hundred-
weight which consists of 1121 b., and the ton which con-
sists of 22401 b., the use of the two systems side by side
leads to confusion and false comparisons.
Now it is the United States that moves to com-
pel the foreign Are insurance office to put up a substantial
deposit before it starts out to rake in premiums Like
Australia, the U.S. let anybody nail up a signboard
stating that the place it was nailed to was an insur-
ance office, and didn’t inquire whether there were any
more assets than the signboard and the doormat; and
when the ’Frisco and one or two other large accidents
happened, there wasn’t enough signboard and doormat to
satisfy the claims. Australia will probably wait in a tired
way till it has a ’Frisco disaster before it drops its venera-
tion for the foreign office, and asks it to put up proofs
that it’s as respectable as its brass-plate pretends it is.
« * * *
‘‘Bari)” : The mail dealers’ collection agency,
to which Tiie Bulletin recently made rude reference, is
possibly related to a firm that once sent us—when the
bush fires were raging and Christmas in full bust—some
white powders in blue packets said to make delicious
lemonade. We thought it really nice of the firm till we
sampled the lemonade. Then our gratitude died a
sudden death, and the powders were cast away, and
completely forgotten till someone, cleaning up, found
and burnt them. Some 12 months later we received a
registered communication from the firm, saying that the
matter would be shortly placed in the hands of their local
solicitor, and demanding immediate payment of JOs. for
the unordered powders. We didn’t take to the ranges ;in
fact, our callousness was beautiful to see. There is no
solicitor within 37 miles of us. No communication of any
kind was received with the powders. (They were, if I
remember aright, marked “Samples.”) No stamps were
sent for return ; no bill even for the 10s. ever came to
hand. We’ve never heard a word from the firm since.
Perhaps it discovered that our mountain fastness is im-
pregnable. There is a point on the road up here where
a man could slay the whole legal profession by rolling
rocks down on it, unless it girded up its 6s. Bd. and fled
in good time.
* ■* * ' *
“ Janor” : “It plainly isn’t safe to assume that
anything is so cheap that the importer won’t find some-
thing cheaper to adulterate it with.” (“Plain English,”
4/7/’07.) That’s bedrock truth ; also there are others
than the importer playing the game. Even the humble
“Cocky’s joy,” sometime called treacle or golden syrup,
is manipulated. Recently saw a country storekeeper
scrapping the balance of a consignment of this confec-
tion. It had been so overloaded with some preservative
that it had eaten holes in the tins. Noticed that the
packer had forgotten to affix his name or address to the
tins. The anonymous tin is the father of suspicion.
Hard to understand this adulteration of a waste product
like molasses, hundreds of tons of which are thrown
away every year. As it forms the staple diet of the
cocky’s underpaid and overworked helot, it is beastly
rough on the helot when it is impure. Once heard a big
cocky’s wife dilating on its merits to a neighbor. “So
nourishing,” she said, “ and it saves sugar, for when the
men have treacle with their bread they can’t tell if their
tea’s sweetened or not.” Good old Private Enterprise! And
how sensitive it is. How it shrinks from Interference, yet
courts it all the time with its tricks. Every day the faking
and adulteration of food expands. And therein lies hope—
for surely it will hasten the time when the manufacture
and distribution of all food-stuffs will be a National En-
terprise. That’s what Private Enterprise is riding for,
and its callous greed and murderous methods will yet
burst it up. Then the verdict will be “ Suicide by
boracic or salicylic or any other old acid.”
“Melb.” : Munsey, just to hand with the usual
sheaf of handbills, has a paper on “The Story of Smelt-
ing.” In all the romances of American business, nothing
is more dazzling than the fairy tale of the smelters. Gold,
silver, copper and lead are handled. They are a con-
genial family, generally found cuddling together. Iron
prefers to live by himself. To an extraordinary ex-
tent U.S. smelting has been the work of the
seven brothers Guggenheim. They control the Ameri-
can Smelting and Refining- 00., which does half the
business. Meyer Guggenheim, father of the family, can e
from Germany, in 1847, a poor lad of 19, without even a
knowledge of English. He began as a vendor of stove-
polish. In the long course of years he became a pros-
perous lace manufacturer in Philadelphia. All his sons
were in that business. In 1881 a hard-up friend
persuaded him to take a half-share, for £6OO,
in a Leadville silver mine, and ultimately he
had to take over all the property. The mine
proved rich. Then another friend came along,
This one persuaded him to go in for smelting. It turned
out disastrous, worked by agency, while all the Guggen-
hei ms stuck to their lace. Then Guggenheim sent two
of his sons to Leadville. They made the concern pay, and
the result was that all the seven sons worked at it. The
celebrated company of “ M. Guggenheim’s Sons” was
formed. The business became mighty. They made more
money in a year than the father had done in his lifetime,
However, the biggest profits did not come for 10 years,
until they took in millionaire Whitnev. Mines were bought
in all sorts of places, especially in Mexico and South
America, under the name of the Guggenheim Co. It
received £6,000,000 on entering the American Smelting
and Refining Co. The business still rolls larger, like a
gigantic snowball. There seems to be no end to the
Guggenheim greatness.
* * * *
‘ F.M., concerning patent medicines: Once
in Melbourne a man who was running some kidney pills
arranged with the Age to publish some advertising
matter as an inset, and I was brought in, the AGE reckon-
ing that I was about up to the standard of the innocent
fiction required. So I worried into the thing. I wrote a
glowing account of Toronto, where the piils came from ;
I wrote a lot of other burble ; and I wrote some testi-
monials. I got what the kidney pill man would have
called a look right in at the patent medicine business,
The thing is dead easy. You find out through the
chemists that are to handle your stuff what; jays in the
suburbs have bought more than one bottle. Then you
call on a selected jay, and sav that his case has been
mentioned to you by your friend Mr. John Madden, and
the jav simply falls over himself in his haste to make
foolish and fallacious confessions. One of the dupes I
was sent to was a poulterer at Flemington, and in
order that he might be tilled with confidence and
hope, I assured him that I was a medical man myself,
He admitted that the pills bad done him good. 1 said
I was sure of it. I said that my experience at Vienna
and Chicago and Tehuantepec led me infallibly to the
conclusion that his health must ha.’e gone ahead with
a jump since the pills got to work. He said yes, he
of my dear friend, the lovely Countess Polonioski,
offering convincing details. 1 assured him that he '
would never truly realise what he owed to the-pills.
I told him that he had taken them just in time. 1 said
I knew exactly what ailed him ; because, to a man
of my experience, the whites of his eves were an
open book. I informed him that he suffered from
Phantasmagoric convulsions, and many other diseases.
He paled several shades, and said that he was convinced
tfiat the pills had saved his life and made a new man of
him. Yes, he remembered now that lie had suffered from
spots before the eyes, and a sort of slow, sinking feeling
at nights. Also (although he had not remarked it at the
time), before he took the pills he had lost all enjoyment
of his food, and was lacking in the att ri butes of splendid
manhood. He rejoiced to say that he could now eat his
meals in comfort and contentment, and was in full enjoy-
ment of all such powers as were requisite and proper to
his commercial and religious circumstances. I wrote
all that up, but, strange to say, the pills did not get
any hold on the Australian market. Some bigger liar
canie along with another pill, mine out.
...
J.G. : Victorian registry offices are a joint
and several horror which should be jumped upon pretty
considerably, and most of the offices want wiping out. I
know a Melbourne registry office wdiich sent a girl up to
a job in Riverina, over 200 miles aw'ay. The kitchen serf
had, of course, to pay her passage up there, also ss. to the
office-keeper. And she did this, only to find, when she
got to the end of the journey, that no place was waiting
for her. Another city office, after taking the invariable
ss. off a little lad with a deformed hand, sent him JO
miles north of Bendigo to a cocky’s place for a fruit-
picking job. Now', the only fruit the cocky ever saw was
some that he bought at Rochester or Bendigo. He
wanted a milker, not a fruit picker, and the Melbourne
kid’s deformed hand prevented him even learning to
milk. He had to leave the farm and trudge the 30 odd
miles to Bendigo, and when he got there the police sent
the old, worn hat round the tow n to collect enough
money to pay his train fare back to Melbourne. It beats
me how the Government allows these offices to be con-
ducted in this manner, and why it doesn’t wipe them out
altogether, and make the whole affair a Government in-
stitution. But then, of course, that is only a mad social-
istic dream, and would be an awful interference with
Private Enterprise.
. * , ,
noblolrrh /Vi„ i
, r, . ? i° U P, - s been burying the
dead h ° rBe of the late land boom, m a manner of speaking,
having lately decided to auction vacant allotments on
wh,ch n ,° f mcs ha ' e l ' een P aid fot \ B > many years that the
accumulations and interest exceed the value of the land.
These abandoned boom-bought allotments are one reason
why Melbourne s suburban councils always boast a lot of
outstanding rates. Most or them just go on piling up
“ ie and wh ,<: n spoken to about it say they haven t
L ' e power to sell. As Oakleigh shows, they have the
E°"« aU n ? h . t T u " d ® r P art XIIL of the Amending Local
boiernment Act, l. ...
* * *
"Dumac” : Competition amongst fire insurance
cos. is pretty keen, and they work all sorts of dodges to
get business. Recently the fire offices doing business in
N.S.W. were asked by a very big co-operative dairy co. on
the North Coast to set forth what special inducements
they would offer it to get its business. Various rates
were quoted, notwithstanding the fact that all fire cos.
doing business in the State are supposed to be bound by
a tariff. Several insurance cos. offered to supply the co-
operative co. with all it w ould require in the way of sta-
tionery, in addition to making an allowance of 15 p.c. as
agents’commission. But a foreign office scooped the pool
by offering to pay the Co-operative Co. £2O “for the right
to erect a sign-board at the co.’s main premises,” and it
also proposed to give the 15 per cent, agents’commission,
The cow’-people snatched at the offer of course, and im-
mediately set about transferring their insurances from an
Australian office to the English co. which tipped the
farmers £2O. The logical conclusion, then, is that if an
agent for a fire office wishes to get ahead of his corn-
petitor, and his company is one of the stick-at-nothing
sort, all he has to do is to arrange with the proponent to
allow a sign (a calendar would do) to be placed on his
premises, and pay a sum (any amount that may be
necessary to beat his rival) for the right,
* * * *
? 'T ld ,i ’ ce
Cecil P. means by casting contumely uponime for re-
counting the yarn of theStroudcow-struggler sstupiditj',
" ien the factory manager vouches for the truth of it.
Thls and ° ther th '"f ha PP e " ed "/ the same locality A
prominent cow-yard monarch (naturally an ornament to
the front pew in the local gospel dispensary)got acheque
for £ll, winch lie placed between the leaves of his Bible.
aU .. r ke presente.l.t atthebai.k
Another at Ward s Rner sent his son for the month s
cheque (£l6). Ihe kid was a easnal sort of chap, and went
off droving to the Northern Territory, forgetting about
the slip of paper in his nnlk-gieased puise. Onhisreturn,
<w° later - be endeavored to persuade a Stroud
storekeeper to cash the document “ Cec. P. is wrong
wh f en f he a f ert i s that cheques are too plentiful. It is an
unfortunate circumstance in some of these minor cow
ocah .es that the storekeeper very often gets the cheque
£om the factory )t the a,er ; e farnie only gets a
receipt tor the goods obtained on tick years before,
* * *
off Maryborough (Q.) lies Fraser Island, size-
aWe> well-timbered? and possessing some possibilities.
There is an aborigines mission settlement there, but for
the most part the island has not been explored, if the
hurried visit of Sacred Ibis Meston two years
a g- 0 Pe excepted. Captain Kent, who spent some
tj tne at the mission settlement, now has a
scheme for turning the natives to some use.
jq e p ro p o ses to establish fish-canning works, paying par-
t.icular attention to the production of dugong and
porpoise oil. He also has an idea that something might
be done w'ith sisal hemp and other crops, so as to vary the
output. If his syndicate is not allow'ed to sweat the
blacks, the scheme looks well—except from the point of
v i e w’of the dugong. Premier Kidston might do worse
than insist that the State should be allowed in as a share-
bolder, to guarantee humane treatment and fair play,
* * * •
. '
“Nulla”: Considering the many Australian
w'hale-fishing yarns I see in The Bulletin, why is it that
the only whale oil one meets speaks with a strong nasal
accent of its home in Massachusetts, U.S.A. ? Is the
Tw'ofold Bay bull-whale an inferior insect to his American
cousin ? Or is the prejudice against Australian goods so
bad that even our whale must pretend to be imported.
OCCUPATION, CLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The purple vistas of the bush
Are really more or less unknown
To me —it is my trade to push
A humble pen. lam no drone,
But these things are not in my line—-
Grand forest-arches, based in white
And mighty boles, red moons that shine
Through crimson-smoky veils at night.
Blue shirts and blueys are outside
My scheme of bliss ; the blistered palm,
The aching back, the temper tried
Beyond its state of normal calm ;
Not these for me—the frenzied mind.
The quick, loud, agitated “ Damn ! ”
That sounds when sons of labor find
Strange insects swarming in their jam.
I do not wish to hear the lark—
The dawn-mad mudlark —wheeling by
Across the clouds, while foxes bark
All down the lonely range—not I!
Nor do I wish to wake in pain
At six, and smell the fragrant morn
All freshly dashed with summer rain
And wish I never had been born !
I like my crawly little groove !
I like to slush about with ink—
To watch the slow procession move
Of columned figures, link on link
E iforging chains to hold me fast
At toil, clean through my life ; 1 think
How, when the pleasant day has passed,
I’ll go up town and take a drink !
VIC.
FRANKEK HENTY.
PURIFY THE SCALP
Zam-Buk Soap removes Scurf, Scale, and other Impurities,
and Prevents Scalp Disease -
ALWAYS keep the scalp sweet and wholesome. Scurf and scale, in addition to
being distasteful, blocks the tiny pores from applying the natural oil to the
scalp, and also becomes a hot-bed for germ life and other impurities, which very
often create serious scalp disease. Especially is this evidenced with children, who,
due to the irritation caused by the impurities, tear the scalp with their nails, thus
causing painful sores and inflammation.
Many ladies and children, while never suffering from any specific di-ease, are
often distressed by a nasty fine scurf in the hair. Sometimes the loosening of the
scurf is accompanied by an unpleasant odor, noticeable more by one’s friends
than by oneself. This may be due to the undue dryness of the scalp caused by the
use of harmful toilet soaps. In any event, frequent shampoos with Zam-Buk
Medicinal Toilet Soap may be recommended as a certain and, at the same
time, delightful cure. //
Zam-Buk Soap contains similar soothing medicinal essences which have made the Balm of this
name famous the world over, and which in this form has the power of nourishing the scalp, and
destroying harmful germs that collect about the hair follicles. Rubbed into the scalp and hair,
Zam-Buk Soap yields a copious creamy lather (for the least loss in the tablet’s weight), and when
the soap-suds have been rinsed away in tepid water, the refreshing, soothing and invigorating
effect of the soap can be felt for hours. The hair acquires a softness and brilliance obtained
by no ordinary soap, and it is proved by these shampoos the tendency of the hair to fall out
or turn permanently grey is quite checked. A few shampoos will banish every trace of the
objectionable scurf, and the scalp is once more made sweet and wholesome.
ZAM-BUK SOAP
Creates soft, refined, healthy skin, and
entirely prevents pimples, itch, rash,
ringworm, eczema, blotches, redness,
tan, blackheads, milk crust, scald head,
and all other children’s skin and scalp
affections.
Zam-Buk Soap is sold in dainty
tablets and boxes by all Chemists and
Stores, or may be had direct from
The Zam-Buk Manufacturing Co., 39
Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
fSs'
io
m
u
JL
r^
LV
There is
Skin-Health
and
Beauty
in every
Tablet.


MICK SIMMONS
fiaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE ,o *
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT fo all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
CANT
B
BEAT
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b. ; of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6Mb.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, is posted.
Tiicrston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatc-h-
-ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
Howto Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting thei r physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads or Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book or
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Uf-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang or
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ llandybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. I* - Established, 95 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SArnio, genuine,
is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr, Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS to Morgan’s
Ereemasonry ExroSED, Key to all' Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing", Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Rkasok, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
is the face cream for the Aus-
tralian woman who values a
good complexion.
It will remove sll the dirt and dust tha
soap and water cannot get at from the pores
of the skin, and will keep it soft, smooth and
clear through the Australian summer, so
complexion destroying.
Oatine is a pure cream made from healing
oats and contains no dangerous mineral salts
or animal fats, which hot weather can cause
to go bad.
Oatine will not grow hair. Men should
always use it after shaving.
Oatine costs 1/9 a jar at all chemists, or
in larger sizes, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
Tobe obtained atall chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’tor Coughsand Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
COAGULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘ LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS ’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
PRIZES value £,1500.
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £5OO
Second Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. I>. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W., for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be posted.
TICKETS may be had from Agents in all Country Towns, or direct from
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary,
Eight-Hour Committee.
trades Hall, Sydney.
By Royal
Warrant to
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
EnmgnsE
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician'*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE. Is. PACKET OF TEN. lOd.
GBD
9
S_CUARAMTtS>
>llll.ll
mi
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
TWO TIPS with
OSPREV.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [7
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.


Isle of Rocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT lies apart from the high seas’ roads where
the ships of the nations ply ;
Far off it lies in the long seas’ wash, rugged
and bare and dry.
The whalers knew it in olden days as they headed
for Sou’-by-East,
And trimmed the line to the long harpoon, steel-
barbed for the great sea beast.
The year comes in and the year goes out, though
the long hard winter drags,
And never a son of the tribe of men sets foot on
the wind-swept crags ;
The year goes out and the year comes in, and ever
the wild things stay,
For it harbored a thousand years ago the life that
is there to-day.
The penguins stand on a ledge of rock, like sol-
diers, all of a row ;
They hold out puny and useless wings, and they
stare at the seals below ;
The noisy seals on the lower ledge that struggle,
and strain, and roar,
And plunge for prey in the turbid surf that
seethes on the bitten shore.
The supple withes of the leathery kelp swing out
and in with the seas ;
The spray leaps up to the barren bluffs, like rain
in a bitter breeze ;
And day and night, with the shifting tides, the
blowholes slap and fume,
As in and out of their ragged lips the green seas
spout and spume.
It is known full well to the albatross a-sail on his
pinions wide;
The pelican knovvs of a harbor safe in stress of
the storms to bide ;
The petrel, gannet, and sea-mew there have
ancient and vested rights,
And the hardy gulls come in at the dusk to
weather the blust’ring nights.
And so it lies, in the long seas’ wash, rugged and
loue and bare—
A fragment yet of the ancient world that harbors
the old life there.
The year comes in, and it changes not, and the
year goes out again,
For it lies apart from the track of ships, immune
from the hands of men.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Matchmakers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BILL was in love. Love is not all roses,
and Bill, walking clumsily amid its in-
tricacies, took much damage of the
thorns. For he was of those simple souls to whom
falling over their feet is a habit, and this Love
wants a light touch. So Nelly, the daughter of
the storekeeper, made a fine show of upturned
nose at him. Which was, in a way, educative,
and good for Bill.
He was certainly no Prince Charming. Just
six feet of bone, held 1 oose-jointedly together by
sinew. And Nelly dreamed of a Romeo, a lover
of sweeping bows and dark, impassioned eyes
and the grand manner. One who disdained to
carry peas, finely balanced on his knife-blade, to
his mouth; one precise in the matter of his
aspirate and sparing of expectoration. All this
goes to prove that she was in no way different
from the rest of her fanciful sex, to which the
manner is the man. And Bill’s manner was the
worst part of him, to the prejudice of his cause.
No. one was more conscious of his abject un-
worthiness than Bill himself, and that in a lover
is a fair sign. “ I’m a plain sort o’ feller, Nell,”
he declared, “an’ a hard grafter. I ain’t ’ad
much time to eddicate myself. But I’ll work for
you, an’ I’ll love you till I die.”
Thereupon Nell, moved more than she knew,
refused him kindly for the hundredth time. But
she could not dismiss him from her mind ; she
was in that dangerous state of pliancy which per-
sistence knows well how to induce in maiden
hearts. Let a man tell a girl every day that she
is his property, and by-and-bye the idea seems
fairly reasonable to her. So close to her fate was
the unconscious Nelly.
Jack Barnes was nearly as cut up over Bill’s
reverses as was Bill himself.
“ It’s my opinion,” he is reported to have said
to Shorty Edwards, “ that if Bill don’t get that
girl ’e’ll blow ’is ’ead off. Look at ’im. Ask ’im
to ’ave one, an’ ’e takes lemonade. ’E’s gettin’
fair balmy, Shorty.”
“My oath, ’e is,” agreed Shorty, pleasantly.
“ Now, don’t you say nothink again’ Bill,” burst
out Jack. “ ’Cos I won’t ’ave it. ’E’s got more
brains ’n ever you ’ad.”
“ But you said ” Shorty groped for reasons.
His beer took advantage of his preoccupation,
and he coughed hard.
“I always said you was a pig, Shorty,” ex-
claimed Jack. “Anyway Bill’s got to get the
girl, an’ if ’e can’t get’er ’isself, why, ’e’s got to be
’elped by ’is friends. ’E wants backin’, that’s
what.”
Shorty demurred. “This ’ere is a thing no
backin’ on earth can’t ’elp, Jack. When a girl
says ‘ no’ she says ‘ no.’”
“Maybe rueanin’ ‘yes.’ ”
“Maybe. But ’ow can we go an’ chip in?
Kissin’ goes by favor, an’ argument ain’t no good
with women. I knows that much, bein’ married
seven year. What price, too, my missus if I got
too frequent at the store? Would she b’lieve I
went there on Bill’s b’half ? She would not.
’Ence, Jack, I do not hinterfere.”
“ I don’t ask you to. But you might, any time
you drop in, crack Bill up a bit. Tell’er ’ow bad
’e’s lookin’, an’ ’ow you don’t know what’s come
over ’im. An’ ’ow good ’e is to ’is old mar, an’
’ow ’e’s never ’ad nothink to do with drink, nor
’orseracing, nor girls.
“I don’t mind doin’ that,” said Shorty.
* * * *
One concludes that Jack Barnes, in the course
of the day, had conversation of similar import
with many sympathetic souls. For Nell had de-
tails of the virtues .of Bill from divers of the in-
habitants of Mullabri—details of his kindness,
his strength, his morality, his sobriety, his
general eligibility. How that the girl this para-
gon married might be considered blessed above
all other women, and how many had broken their
hearts about him without avail. Kill appeared as
an angel of incomparable brightness, dignifying
the small town by his sojourn in its midst. All
this might be vastly interesting to the young lady,
but she betrayed no sign of her interest. Upon
the heel of a glowing appreciation of Bill, she
inquired whether Shorty had asked for two tins of
jam or three, and she interrupted Mick Bladen’s
account of Bill’s horsemanship with a message for
Mrs. Bladen. Whereupon the subject of Bill
languished.
Jack Barnes, however, stuck to his guns. In-
terruption only made his aim more direct. The
perfections of Bill assumed colossal dimensions in
his report, nor did he hesitate in putting the
matter plainly to Nelly as the interested party.
He assured her that Bill worshipped the ground
she walked on—which she knew first-hand. He
told her she might do worse—nor had Bill neg-
lected that aspect. He went bail for his friend s
extra unshrinkable quality as a husband, which
was unsafe, for these things are upon the knees
of the gods, the high gods, who themselves know
not that which is in the heart of nian. The song
of Bill was ever on his lips, and Nelly grew weary.
Truly, if ever a cause was damned by its
friends, that cause was Bill’s. At times Nelly
almost bated him. It has been written that a woman
cannot be driven —even to what she most hath set
her heart upon. Under this saying, even Juliet
would have scorned her Romeo had his friends
pestered her, and had Verona expected of her
what Mullabri expected of Nelly.
Argument grew hot between Bill’s champions,
so hot that only the opportune arrival of that long-
absent citizen, Baldy Andrews, saved Jack and
Shorty from actual combat. These two debated
intemperately as to the distribution of, blame.
Under the big mahogany tree in Tarkins’ vacant
lot they spoke loudly to drown the yells
of some hundreds of fat cicadas which
crawled joyfully upon the heat-baked branches.
Little dust eddies chased one another along the
chrome-yellow road, and subsided, stunned by
the noise, as they came opposite the tree. Along
this, the Willaminga-road, came Baldy, per
favor of a tired brown horse, which troubled not
to raise its hoofs above the six inches of surface
dust. This horse, with its curious method of road-
ploughing, attracted the attention of the two
disputants.
“ Why, blowed if it ain’t Baldy Andrews,” said
Jack. “Hey, Baldy!”
The new arrival slid from his seat and hung up
his horse. “Hullo, Jack,” he said. “How’s
things ?”
“ Middlin’,” replied Jack.
“ An’ Shorty ! Why, you’re both of you jest the
same's ever.”
“/ am,” corrected Jack. “But Shorty s a
father now.”
“ A bad ’abit,” Baldy commented. “ A bloomin' 1
bad ’abit,” he repeated with some warmth. Then,
“ Mus’ be five year since I saw yous blokes. ’Ow’s
all the rest ? ”
“ Middlin’,” Jack informed him. “All excep’
Jimmy Cass; ’e died o’ D.T.’s a couple o’ year
back.”
“Don’t blame ’im. This little town’s enough
to drive any man to drink. And, by the way,
let’s ’ave one.”
As they lounged towards Tarkins’ Imperial
Hotel, Jack gave further account of the doings of
Mullabri. In time he came to the troubles of Bill,
and the heroic measures judged necessary to save
that love-lorn person’s reason.
Baldy spat contemptuously. “ Well, yous
blokes are a lot of jumbucks,” he said.
“I told Jack,” apologised Shorty. “ ‘ Jack,’ I
says, ‘it ain’t no good hinterferin’ with love’s
young dream. Let ’em fight it out theirselves.’
But ’e would ’ave it.”
“That kind of interference ain’t certainly no
good. These things ’ave to be ’andled with tack.”
“ O’ course,” replied Jack, nettled. “ You see,
Shorty, we ought to ’ave waited till Baldy come.”
“You might ’ave done worse,” admitted Baldy.
“We didn’t know as vou was cornin’,” pursued
Jack.
“ It’s a pity,” declared Baldy.
“ Well, since you’re ’ere, why not fix it all up ?
A clever bloke like you ought to settle it in a
week.” Jack winked at Shorty, who laughed.
“ A week !” cried Baldy. “Yous blokes must
think I’m slow. I’ll do it in three days.”
“ What d’yer put on it?” Jack always found
money acceptable, and if this self-satisfied fool
were willing to back his folly
“ A fiver,” answered Baldy.
“Bob?” (contemptuously.)
“ Quid ” (regally).
“ Done ! ” cried Jack. “ ’Ave you anythink on,
Shorty ? ”
“ My oath, Jack, if ’e’ll take it.”
Baldy signified his willingness to take it from
Shorty and from anybody else who chose to accept
his wager.
“You see,” he went on, “yous chaps went to
work wrong. But you’d better get your quids
out o’ the bank, ’cos my method ’ll fix it up,
an’ they’ll live’appy ever arter—Le’s see ! Mon-
day—Toosday—We’n’sday night. ”
“What’s your method? ” inquired Jack. Once
more he winked at Shorty.
“My method,” replied Baldy, “ain’t your
method, Jack.”
From what appeared upon the surface, Baldy s
method was simple. He made himself an appur-
tenance of Ransome’s store. He lounged over
the counter. He flirted with Nell. She responded
to this treatment with spirit. He told her how
dull this town of Mullabri was, and how bright
she was. How Mungoona, where his store was,
would prove a better foil to her brightness. He
slid into reminiscence. How he had known her
since she was “that high he indicated with his
palm the exact measurement. How he used even
to call her “Nelly,” but how well aware he was
of the utter hopelessness of such a favor now.
This hopelessness was weighing down his young
spirit, and he would shortly die.
“Well,” she said, “if it’s to save your life I
don’t mind you callin’ me ‘Nelly’ now.”
“ ’Ow tender-’arted y’are,” he sighed.
“ Oh, it’s nothing,” replied Nelly. “ I’d do more
than that for a dog.”
“Such a pretty name,” answered Baldy.
“ ‘Nelly !’” He let it linger lovingly upon his
tongue.
“ Take care you don’t swallow it,” she giggled.
“It’s all I have.”
“ An’ my name to my friends is Baldy,” in-
sinuated the oily Mr. Andrews.
“ Oh, I couldn’t call you that.” Nelly dropped
her eyes modestly.
“Why not?” asked Baldy, twirling his mous-
tache.
“ It’s so ugly,” was the unexpected reply. “ I
had a scalded kitten once named Baldy.”
“I remember ’im,” said Andrews, shortly.
“An’ do you remember the day you an’ me
promised to be ? Oh, I can’t say it.” Again
her eyes dropped. - .•
“ My word ! ”
“An’ how Billy Atwell punched your head
when I told him ? ”
“No—l don’t remember that. But I never
could stummick Billy. I ’ear ’e’s bin pesterin’
you lately.”
“ You jest hear wrong, then. Mind your own
business, Mr. Baldy Andrews, and don’t listen to
gossip.” Nell was" plainly annoyed, and Baldy
grew abject.
“ I’m sorry if I offended you, Nell, I wouldn’t
’urt you for the world.”
She regarded him haughtily, unrelenting. He
grew still more abject.
“Nell, say you forgive me.”
She laughed. “ My, how serious you are.”
“Serious! Nell, I’m serious ’cos I love you.
The first day I saw you, when I come in with
Shorty, I says to myself, ‘Nell’s my fate. Nell’s
the only girl in the world for Baldy Andrews.’ ”
“How nice!” she said, her head on one side.
“ And suppose I say ‘ yes.’ ”
“ I’m not worthy of it,” said Baldy, a note of
alarm in his voice.
“ S’pose I think you are.”
“Don’t be in a ’urry, Nell. Marriage is a
serious step.” •
‘ 1 It is, an’ therefore, Mr. Andrews, I must de-
cline your magnificent offer. And don’t you go
and drown yourself in the dam, will you?’’she
jileaded anxiously.
“I’m glad you think that much o’ me,” he said,
bitterly.
“’Tisn’t that, but we’ve got to drink the
water. So you’ll wait till you get back to Mun-
goona, won’t you?”
Here Baldy exploded, saying that women were
deceivers —that Nelly had played with him, and
that she loved another —Bill, to wit. “Ah!”
he said, “if you only know ’im like I do, you
mightn’t be so ready to throw me over.”
“If he was here he’d save me the trouble,” she
said.
“What trouble?”
“ Throwin’ you over.”
“ ’E’s a nice bloke ’e is,” growled Baldy. “I
’spose ’e tells you ’e’s never loved any other girl.
(Continued on next paye.)
Influenza is the outcome of a very severe cold, and
is dangerous if not properly controlled, as it is likely
to develop into Pneumonia or Bronchitis. Ihe
dangers of these complications need not be feared
if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery be given in
teaspoonful doses every two or three
hours, as this powerful
remedy will at once relieve
and soon cure
the worst cases.
Two Letters from Mothers.
“ / must tell you that myself and the children have
had Influenza very badly but thanks to Dr. Sheldon’s
New 1 iscovery we have quite recovered. I would
recommend it to anyone suffering from colds.”
Mrs. HARGREAVES, Wharparilla Hotel, via Echuca, Victoria.
nWe are never without Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery in the house. It
is a giand medicine, I always give it to the children when they have a cold.
I also gave it to them for Whocpii g Cough and Bronchitis.”
* Mis. JOHN DA EH RY, Chapel Street, Nathaha, Victoria.
n- ch.Unn’s New Discovery is obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers, or
will be posted upon receipt of Co. ,°L t d!? S l's o’Conneli’street,Sydney.
REMARKABLE
INVENTION
FOR THE
CULTURE
OF HAIR
CHE EVANS VACUUM CAP is a practical invention constructed on scientific and
hygienic principles, by the simple means of which a free and normal circulation
is restored throughout the scalp. The minute blood vessels are gently stimulated
to activity, thus allowing the food supply, which can only be derived from the blood,
to be carried to the hair roots, the effects of which are quickly seen in a healthy, vigorous
growth of hair. There is no rubbing, and as no drugs or chemicals of whatsoever kind
are employed, there is nothing to cause irritation. It is only necessary to wear the Cap
three or four minutes daily.
60 DAYS’ FREE TRIAL!
The Company's Guarantee.
An EVANS VACUUM CAP will be sent you for sixty days’ free
trial If vou do not see a gradual development of a new growth of hair,
£?:areJt convinced that fte Cap will completely restore you.-hair.you
are at liberty to return the Cap with no expense whatever to it
is requested, as an evidence of good faith, that the price of the Cap be
deposited with the Chancery Lane Safe Deposit Company of London, the
largest financial and business institution of the kind in the world, who will
issue a receipt guaranteeing that the money will be returned in full, on
demand, without questions or comment, at any time during the trial period.
The eminent Dr. I. N. LOVE, in his address to the Medical Beard on the subject
hair) stated that if a means could be devised to bring nutrition to the follicles (hair roots) without
resorting to any irritating process, the problem of hair growth would be solved. Later on, wnen
the EVANS VACUUM CAP was submitted to him for inspection, he remarked that te P
fulfil and confirm in practice the observations he had previously made before the Medical
Dr. W. MOORE, referring to the invention, says that the principle upon which the Evans Vacuum
Cap is founded is absolutely correct and indisputable.
An illustrated, and descriptive book of the Evans Vacuum Cap will be sent, post f ree, on application
THE SECRETARY, EVANS VACUUM CAP CO., LTD.,
REGENT HOUSE, REGENT STREET, LONDON, W.


But you ask ’im about the girl in Doolan’s pub
down Willaminga. Ask ’im about the waitress
down the Coffee Palace at Sydney, the little dark
’mi. Jessie, ’er name wus. Yes, ask ’im about
Jessie.”
Nelly was smitten to the heart. She did not
know the ways of men. She was certain that
Baldy’s offer of marriage was in jest, but the last
story held a bitter flavor of truth to her.
“You mean beast,” she cried. “You—with
your lies! You ain’t fit to wipe Bill’s boots.
Get out o’ here, an’ if you show your nose
in the place again I’ll get Bill to rub it in the
dirt like he did years ago.”
Mr. Andrews got out, mopping his face. Once
outside he sought Jack Barnes, a smile of triumph
joining ear to ear. “You get your five quid
ready, Jack,” he said, “an’ tell Bill to go an’ see
Nell to-night. An’ you might remind Shorty
Edwards and Micky Bladen and Clem Furth
about their bets. I never made twenty quid easier.”
Meanwhile Nelly was crying in her roqrn over
the faithlessness of man.
The interview which took place that evening
between Bill and his sweetheart was the most
surprising affair in Bill’s experience. One may
assume that it began with coldness on the part of
the lady and bewilderment on that of Bill.
Thence it passed to wrath on her side, his state
remaining unchanged. Then we have accusation
and denial. The wrath changes sides. A sudden
development of tears by Nell induces courage and
hope in Bill. And the evening, as subsequent,
proceedings showed, closed in happiness for both,
happiness tinged in Bill’s case by a burning
resolve, a resolve which also showed results in the
near future. This little sceiie is indeed recon-
structed only from a scanty knowledge of the ways
of humanity and the plainly ostended results, for
of late no story teller of repute eavesdrops upon
lovers.
So the God in the Car, Baldy Andrews, had
won twenty pounds. He, with Shorty and Jack,
patrolled the town of Mullabri next day to waylay
the pilgrim of love.
“ Ah, ’ere ’e comes,” cried Shorty.
“’E’s come to thank me,” declared Baldy.
“You see now.”
Bill’s thanks were manifest in a sudden infuri-
ated charge and a straight left to Baldy’s eye.
“Pull ’im off,” cried Shorty. “’Ere. Bill, get
off—let the man alone.”
He, aided by Jack Barnes, dragged Bill away
from his victim, and Baldy sat up, brushing the
dust from his hair. He was still calm. Calmness
was Baldy’s stock-in-trade —calmness and the
benign certainty that the end would justify virtue
in the orthodox way.
“ What for, Bill ? ” he inquired. “ You got the
girl, didn’t you ? ”
“Let go, you fellers,” yelled Bill. “Yes, I
got ’er, you cow ! No thanks to you neither, you
backbi tin’, sneakin’ ”
Baldy held up his hand. “ Don’t say nothin’
you’ll be sorry for, Bill. You fellers,” he turned
to Jack and Shorty, “ ’card ’im say it all right.
Keep a tight ’old of ’im, Shorty. ’E won’t give
me time to explain if you lets go.
“You’re a nice kind o’ bloke, Bill Atwell. I
gets your girl for you, an’ you blacks my eye for
it. Kindness is wasted on some people. No !
shut up, you silly beggar, till Vve ’ad my say.
These jugginses he waved his hand at the
others—“told me you couldn’t get what you was
after yourself, an’ so they ’elped you.”
Bill struggled again. “ I’ll ”
“ Will you shut up? They told me, I say, an’
bein' a fool, I took an interest in yer troubles,
and bet 'em I’d fix it for you in three days.”
“ Why, you tried to get ’er yourself, you dam’
liar,” roared Bill. “An’ when you found she
wouldn’t touch you with a forty-foot pole, you
told ’er that I fooled with other girls. Let me go,
Shorty, just one minute.”
“Keep ’old of ’im, Shorty,” commanded Baldy.
“I wanted ’er myself, did I? Now, I’ll bet yer
ten quid I didn’t.”
“I’d believe ’er before you.”
“ Ten quids’ worth ?” inquired Baldy.
“Yes, twenty if you like.”
“ It’ud be robbery. Ten’s enough to pay for
one black eye.”
“Did you ask ’er to marry yer?”
“ I did.”
“ There y’ are, boys. Who wins the bet ? ”
“’Old ’ard, Bill. I didn’t bet on whether I
asked ’er, but whether I wanted ’er.”
“Well, ’ow can we prove what you wanted?”
asked Bill, scornfully. “ You’re such a liar that
your own word ain’t no good to us. Bet’s off, eh
Shorty ? ”
“ While I don’t agree as what Baldy’s a liar,”
said Shorty, judicially, “one man’s word ain’t
enough evidence to decide a bet on.”
“ I’ve got a good deal more’n my word,” replied
Baldy. “If a wife an’ two kiddies ain’t good
enough, the bet’s off.”
“ Wife an’ .two kids?” gasped Jack.
“Been married four year. Left ’er down Mun-
gooua, an’ runs up ’ere to see old friends. What
do I get from my old friends. I gets called a fool
an’ a liar. I likewise obtains a black eye. But I
reckon I also takes thirty quid from Mullabri.
“You win your bet, I s’pose,” said Jack. “But
why did you go an’ blacken Bill’s name to ’is.
girl ? That wasn’t a fair do. There wasn’t no
need for that.”
“No need! ’Oly Moses ! Why, ’e only yot ’er
through that.”
“ Can’t see it,” answered the puzzled Jack.
“ You will when you’ve been married four year.
Eh, Shorty?”
“My oath !” agreed Shorty.
“Go an’ ask ’er, Bill, why she said ‘yes’ last
night,” went on the triumphant Baldy. “Eh,
Shorty ? ”
“My colonial OAth” repeated Shorty. “Bill,
you’re out. Get off the wicket an’ pay up. Shake
’ands with Baldy, an’ thank ’im. To think none
of us saw that. An’ it was so simple.”
“All things,” said Baldy, “are simple when
you knows ’ow. All I wonders now is what my
missus’ll say to the black eye.”
HOWARD ASHTON.
Bee-Hunting in the Murra
Murra.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AT the head of the Glenelg river (Vic.)
stands the Murra Murra State Forest,
140,000 acres of marshy, heathy country,.
the favorite haunt of bee-hunters.
Going for bush honey is sometimes called bee-
hunting ; but now that bee-farming has been
established on a definite legal basis, hedged round
with rules and regulations, bee-hunting has come
to mean collecting bees for an apiary. A Govern-
ment permit must be obtained before you can
legally collect bees on State lands, and a fee is
charged for felling trees—to wit, the red gum,
white gum, yellow box, and grey box: 4s. for a
tree, 2s. for a limb. This has been paid-some-
. ’
i' llll6B,
In Murra Murra there must be 10,000 swarms
of bees, but the difficulties to be overcome make
bee-hunting an exciting adventure.
Harry and Alf, bee fanners, invade Murra
Murra every season. No Man’s Land is Murra
Murra. In this forest primeval the scrub is so
dense that often the hunters are compelled to
crawl several chains under it. Thick ti-tree rises
10ft. all round them, and there are many kinds of
eucalypti. Rarely they see the sun. One can’t
push 6ft. away from his mate without shouting to
make known his whereabouts, for the scrub closes
behind the traveller swiftly and completely, like
water round a diver, blotting out all trace,
Battling on, the bee-hunters cut through emu
bush, prickly bush, needle wood, porcupine grass,
honeysuckle, gold and silver wattle, reeds, rushes,
ferns, 50 kinds of scrub, some unknown to botany,
all bound together by that impish creeper, the
supplejack, that winds round their legs, tripping
them at every step. This is Murra Murra. There
are fish in the river—crayfish, lobster, yabbie, eel,
perch, blackfish, mountain trout. There are all
kinds of birds. Native game is plentiful roo,
wallaby, ’possum, emu, numbers of wild pig, and
a few deer. Man is the rarest animal.
Taking with them ladder, axe, bee-box, ropes.
smoker, and a kerosene tin for a bucket, besides
tea and tucker, the bee-hunters make through
the scrub, following’roo tracks. There is nodiffi-
culty in finding bee trees. I hey sniff honey half
a mile off. First a loaded cord is thrown over the
limb, perhaps 80ft. high. To this cord a rope is
attached, and to the rope again a ladder made of
saplings. When the rope is fastened round the
bole, Alf scales the ladder with a cord in his hand,
To this cord the axe is then fastened and drawn
up. Alf starts chopping. He can gain only one
foothold, so chops with one hand and a 71b. axe,
his other hand clutching a limb. Harry from the
ground “pokes borak” at him, but he chops skil-
fully, disturbing the bees as little as possible, till
at last the limb falls. Harry rushes up with the
“smoker.’
Sometimes the bees are savage. Escaping from
the hollow, they fly back up the tree and tackle
Alf, who can’t let go the gear, and must take the
stings as they come till he can climb down and
bolt for the 'Scrub. “ Where are you goin’?”
laughs Harry. “ I'm gom mad. Are you
cornin’?” And he drops face downward in the
grass with bees all over him. These attacks, how-
ever, are a luxury, not a matter of everyday.
Harry cuts out the hollow of the fallen limb,
This is delicate work, for the comb must not be
broken, uor the bees drowned in honey. He takes
out the wax, wax with honey being chucked into
a bucket, wax with brood put aside, covered with
branches, to cool and get dry.
Where is the queen? It is no swarm unless
they capture the queen. Harry chops deeper
into the log, but the queen is missing. He pauses,
“ Here goes,” he says finally, and, ignoring the
bees that buzz all round him, puts in half-a-dozen
more strokes. He pokes the comb with his
finger, and a bee crawls further into the hollow,
Another chip or two, and the queen is found—the
last bee of the whole swarm. The cunning lady
is put into a little wire cage, and the cage placed
in the temporary hive. All the bees will soon
find her, and never leave her.
Ants now march along, attracted by the smell
of honey. These are the meat or soldier ants (the
bulldog and white ants don’t touch bees), plucky
little savages, who would carry off the bees bodily,
Their nest has to be found and smoked out.
The bees are left till evening, covered over with
honeysuckle, so that they may locate the queen
and sort themselves out. At dark the robbers
return, and find the bees all in a bunch. The
brood is put into a frame, then boxed, and taken
to the waggon.
Such good bushmen are these robbers that they
never lose a swarm. Even at night they can find
every tree felled for the last month. They go
straight where they want to, steering by the stars,
if there are any, the grade of the country, the tops
Q f the trees—by a hundred signs, the knowledge
Q f which constitues bushcraft, at once a fine art
and an exact science.
In a long day the pair sometimes secure eight
or nine swarms in Murra Murra. Once they got
more. One of the pair had boxed some bees and
left out a.tin of honey. He went off to fell another
tree. Returning, he found no honey. There was
a bucket of bees instead. Not far away was a bee
farm, and it was from there the bucket of bees
had come. Harry boxed these bees. “This is
better than felling trees,” he observed; “they
keep cornin’ to us.” Later on the apiarist himself
arrived. He said his bees were getting a bit thin,
and wondered why. The bee-hunter assisted him
f n wondering.
At times, swarms are found in strange places.
Once, on the outside of a log in the liver, Alf
noticed a curious dark mass. At first he thought
jf wa s punk, but afterwards saw some bees flynw
about. He examined the log, and got 301 b. of
honey.
When rabbit-trapping, near Mount Talbot,
Harry saw a swarm entering the mouth of a burrow,
He made a fire with green boughs on each side,
and, when he had driven the bees out of the comb,
he found about 901 b. of honey. It must have been
windy weather that compelled the bees to alight
there ; but, obtaining shelter for the night and
finding the burrow a suitable place, they' stayed
right on and built their castle,
When a limb has been felled, occasionally the
queen and half the swarm fiv up the tree to the
spot nearest their old residence. Then Alf climbs
back with a box, smoker and scooper, and gets
them in about 20 minutes. Below, Harry smokes
the bees out of the fallen limb, and they too fly
back and get boxed. One amateur bee-hunter
W as much perplexed when the queen flew back up
the tree. Getting wild, lie. loaded his gun and
fired at the swarm, and it drizzled dead bees for
quite a while. This method is not recommended,
Germans have acquired, a great reputation for
handling bees. They are expert in the apiary,
but no use collecting in Murra Murra. The
Teuton encases himself in leggings, gloves, a hat
made like a mask, and a net—a variety of armor
that would prevent him ever getting through the
scrub. On the other hand, the bushmah wears
only a veil, and that more because it is expected
of him than for use, for he seldom lets it
down. His sleeves are always rolled up ; and he
pays no heed to 30 or 40 stings. Compared to
collecting swarms in the bush, apiary work is
almost ladylike.
The bees in Murra Murra are mostly hybrids, a
cross between the Italian and the black. They
are the best workers, and make splendid honey
from the gum blossoms.
The native bee is about the size of a fly. Its
comb is a woody affair, and it makes only a
thimbleful of honey. It is an insect of no com-
mercial value,
LOUIS ESSON.
THE BATTLE OF EIFE.
Efficiency Depends upon Health. Health Depends upon the Kidneys.
Every man or woman who works must keep healthy, if work is to be done efficiently. The unfit go to the wall. Good
work depends upon good health. Work becomes a nightmare to those who are not well. ARE YOU EFFICIENT ?
Or are you Depressed, Tired, Suffering from Broken Sleep, Backache, Pains in the Limbs, Bad Taste in the Mouth ? All
these are symptoms that your kidneys are weak or diseased, and unable to carry out their work of filtering the blood and
keeping it pure. The Kidneys are the Filters of Life. All these
symptoms are forerunners of Dropsy, Rheumatism, Urinary
Diseases, Gravel, Stone, Neuralgia, all of which are Kidney Dieases.
Only a kidney medicine can cure you. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills act on the kidneys, and on the kidneys only. They will keep
you bright, free from pain, backache and headache. They will
keep you efficient.
Lasting Sydney Cure .
Mr. John Loaney, 20 Swanson Street, Erskineville, states I wish to give you particulars of my
experience with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I owe these Pills a debt of gratitude, for they have cured
me of very serious Kidney disease. My ill-health commenced three years ago, when I first had to lay
up. I had terrible pains in my back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick, and con-
tained' sedimentary matter. I also had fits of giddiness, and every day I would have a violent headache.
For two years I spent an average Of two weeks out of every three in bed, and even when I was up I was
very ill. I was very weak, and fell away. I had the best medical advice and treatment to be procured ;
ten leading Sydney Physicians treated me in the three years of my illness; their bills totalled £lBO.
The general idea was that I suffered with stone in the kidneys, and I was constantly advised to undergo
an operation. At last a Specialist put me under the X-Rays ;he found no foreign substance in the kid-
neys, but a dark veil enveloped the right kidney, showing pronounced disease. He told me that it was
unnecessary to be operated on, as my kidneys were too far gone for an operation to benefit me.
“ I gave up all hope of recovery, and fully expected to die soon, and my friends were of the same
opinion. My lawyer was brought home, and made out my will—l was held up to sign it. Not long after
this I was advised to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. The man who had urged me to give this remedy
a trial had been cured by it, and had the utmost faith in its healing properties. He told me he had been
doubled up with the ailment, and not able to get about at all, and one box had cured him, and for good.
One could not but be convinced that he was in thorough earnest, so I sent for a supply to Ellis’s Pharmacy,
Erskineville. I used nine boxes, and was cured. I felt no good effects until I was using the third box,
and after that my recovery was gradual. I left off taking the Pills four months ago, and have not needed
to take one since, and am still in the best of health.’
On 9th February, 1907, Mrs. Loaney says “ The above is true, and lam pleased to say my husband
is still free of kidney trouble. In fact he was never better in his life, and is without ache or pain. I
think this is marvellous, for he is 76.”
K
A
r>
M
i
7
i
€
/%
<z.
r
J
1
:
L
“Every Picture
Tells a Story.”
DOAN’S
Remember!
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PHIS
2s. 9d. per Box,
At all Chemists and
Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co.
76 Pitt St., Sydney.


An Adelaide lady sends her photograph, and writes:
;
■M
“I used to hare terrible
feelings come over me. The
doctors could do me no good.
I could not sleep, my appe-
tite left me, and I was a
most miserable woman in-
deed. Having read of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla I thought I
would try it. To my great
surprise, after taking only
two bottles I found myself
very much better in every
way. After taking six bot-
tles all my disagreeable feel-
mgs left me, and I was completely cured.”
If your appetite is poor, your digestion imperfect, and
you feel nervous and weak, you ought to take
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
It expels all impurities from the blood and gives strength
and vigor to the nerves. A thorough course of treatment
with it makes rich and red blood, brings the old color back
to the lips, fills out the cheeks, and gives the glow of per-
fect health.
A good appetite—a good digestion—a healthy liver—
an active brain and strong nerves; these are better than
great riches, and Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will help you to
obtain them.
i’ropared by DB. J. O. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
There are many imitation “Sarsaparillas.” Be sure you get AYER’S.
Avar’s •»»*?«*. ftUfl'Ar-e*«tod,for constipation. In glass bottles.
COLORED -?
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send ug your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 0
•» our oolored and hisrli art Post Card 3 to sell for us, at Od. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our Os. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By oofitmuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Bllver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with vou nsrain, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction. c- *
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
F
K
E
*
&
m
m
i
m
m
Wk
&
w/
re
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward otie of our
lat st improved high grade ELECTRIC
belts free.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC B LT
is themost perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varieo-
Lcele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Sack. Kid*
hev. Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Freeir^K
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If von are weak in any wav
delav no longer but write to-day (or our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Clout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON,
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
R ( CORO’S
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord's Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 128., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is (id. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Bydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NEIIVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Itemed'’
sent by mail in plainpaekages. When CUBED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address ; HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOB YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Iteniedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness. Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A. Gentleman having tried la vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIHPLK XTBANS Of SELF-CURE, will
forward tea same, free ol charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. 6d. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d. ; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. fid. ; The Southern Garland 4s. 6d.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A ’ representative group of Australian
books.
Overcome Your Doubt
Don't hesitate to put your faith in the world famous Beecham s
Pills, the best, safest, surest and most reliable remedy for all
stomach, liver and kidney troubles. When your stomach is out
of order, it needs help, it must be thoroughly cleansed, strengthened
and settled. Give
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
a chance. Let them prove that they can do for you what they
have done for thousands of others during the past half century.
They will promptly and effectively remove all the discomforts
which arise from undigested foodt will put your system in good
condition and make life worth living. Any troubles arising from
derangement of the digestive organs will be quickly corrected by
taking Beechasn's Pills. They will without a doubt promptly
Cure and Convince.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price I [lb (S 6 pllis) A 2/9 ( 168 pills) •
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your .. .
Rabbit iSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
TO ■
HILL. CLARK <a CO..
SYDNEY.
SOME MEN PREFER A RIBBON
instead of the regular
style of watch-chain,
and this pattern,
with bolt ring on one end and a swivel at the other, costs 20/*, or in 15-ct. gold, 37/6. The
illustration is one-fourth of the size of the original, and should you fancy some design other than this we can
make the mountings any pattern, and will be glad to furnish you with sketches and prices on request.
We have just landed a shipment of the
“A. Sc C.” SPECIAL PRISM BINOCULARS
which are the finest Prism Classes ever produced.
This is a strong- statement, but we back it up with the goods, and send these
Binoculars post free to any address at Six Guineas.
Like everything else sold by “ the store where quality counts,” if on receipt of the parcel you are of
opinion that the article is not exactly as represented, you may return it and we will cheerfully refund
your money.
J-.'V
Angus
GEORGE STREET, Corker Royal Arcade,
SYDNEY.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets,
THe Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
\VfILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
TT BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. Oct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Colo’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
Incoa-
_ . venience.
Each Capsule bears the name
JW
I,
men
ano
™OMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &«,.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist In
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be oonsulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 dally.
DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women,and Their Home Oure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you atm’lv m
Dr. Marcia now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pares
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Coirred
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It i* a true <>uide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advert ised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted \»ifh lone
standing-, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar bonk has ever been published
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations andVoion d
, f , a ’ r Book is like " ill. be sent POST
Also "MIND OVER MATTER” and ‘‘BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin andhls
mod.cUl works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special ” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Wote Address : 1 nts posted
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “Elmley House,”
Please mention this paper when writing.
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


TO KEEP YOU WARM
AND DRY
USE OUR
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30 /-, 42/-.
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd
270 George Street, Si
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, A Pneumatic Hammer Bock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181b*. Operated bv comnressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
ot air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock DMIlc.
souE_«at»T. ! w & j LEMPRIERE,
SOS LITTLE COLLINB ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
(wood Bras. Lt*.
SHKmgLD, ESatASli.
‘PAM PA’
POCKET
KNtVE
are the
BEST
ES
No. 8160 l IiI.ADE N
“ PAMPA."
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
SCHNAPPS
HOT WITH LEMON
AT BEDTIME
Cures Coldsan d Influenza
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
Low Price. High Efficiency. Every Pomp Guaranteed.
FOR . . .
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
V
■
-
,'ir
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
Single & Dcplex.
High & Low S ervice.
:v l ‘
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Clatence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Selling Agents: BE VAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melbourne; SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A. %
I
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Qalvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
C.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths* Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
TELEPHONES
FOR PASTOBALIST, STOCK, and
STATION WORK
Write for our FREE BOOK on
TELEPHOHEB. HOW TO INBTAL THEM,
Silvertown Telegraph Works Coy.,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ,
OUR NEW
' A
% •'
Contains Particulars
of Entirely New
Mining Machinery
and Appliances.
P/ease send your Address
and wo will Mall you ono.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
