

■W
c?
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW aud SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
',l ~l
HOBART.
t§, , —?f m —
Radley’s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
ELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
,Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
RUSTON HELICAL CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS
Are a great advance on any Centrifugal Pump hitherto on the market* Testa prove the
Efficiency to be higher than any other* a modulus of 83 per oent. having been obtained.
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
—
Take it back.
1 must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
JlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CD. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Actlvo Agents and Canvassers Wanto. TSJi
qM ,
u
Us,
HOSE.
For DELIVERY, SUCTION, STEAM, OR ROCK DRILLS.
Sene f Your Enquiries and ORDERS to—
Works at—
SII.VERTOWN,
ESSEX, ENGLAND.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
Telephone nos. 882) 2435* 279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
30 3E*3C"3?"r STREET, SYDKTHY.
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA i
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
AL
rot
is the Queen of swll Cocoas
| Aroma,Strengths Purify:
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
1 \%
<<
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers- SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
3u;i^cj<-a 3 1 puts 3ui}Eaa3ta}a}j /"o «ix«JHStvv «J saaj{cui os IV
helidon spa water.
HELIDON SPA WATER. should be
taken with food as a Table Water.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1449.]
[Thursday, November 21, 1907.
r egistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post aa a Newspaper.


TWO EXCELLENT GIFT BOOKS.
DISTINCTLY AUSTRALIAN.
GUM-TREE BR9WNIE,
And Other Fagrie Folk of the Never Never, by TARELLA QUIN, illustra-
tions arid decorations by Ida S. Rentoul; 196 pages (oblong); art linen,
a.B«qsqd
‘B.lOlOO 004M1 in uBisap
*s
AUSTRALIAN SONGS,
For Younp and Old ; nine sonsrs for children and grown-ups ; words by
Annie R. Rentoul, music by Georgette Feterson, illustrations and cover
design bv IdaS. Hentoul; 32 pageS(oblong) ; limp wrapper in three colors 2s. 6d., or basket linen style 55., postage 4d.
WRITTEN, ILLUSTRATED, PRINTED AND PUBLISHED IN AUSTRALIA.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR MAILINC ABROAD.
ROBERTSON & CO., PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
HUDSON’S
SOLD BY CHEMISTS,
IN TINS, 116.
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
A— The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C—The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A lobe of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMEIsTHOL
JUJUBES ” do not interfere with digestion. On
the contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
.entation of food. '
THE RED PAGE
ATHENA.
I bring all problems to the light,
The sacred and profane ;
No wind-winged lie conceals its flight,
Nor midget truth is slain.
Profound conceptions grey with age,
Beliefs immune from doubt
In passionless repose I gauge,
Patch up, confirm, cast out.
Poetic dream, religion vain.
Rhetorical excess,
’Fore my tribunal I arraign
With blue-eyed deadliness.
And structures with embrasured Fears,
Too huge for outer thrust,
My patient termite pioneers
Shall analyse' to dust.
The truth my worshippers record
For its pure sake alone;
Who gazes on me for reward
Falls, a brainless stone.
You may build a god from thought or stone,
From words your sires have said,
From fears or powers your sires have known
Or books that they have read.
All life may recognise his sway,
Creation seems his word :
If he is an idol, he fades aw’ay
When hoots Athena’s bird.
You may by passion, pride or zeal.
For the sake of a beautiful lie,
My stern criteria repeal.
While dull Time trudges by :
You may build the lie in law, in rite,
In custom, blood and brain.
The time shall come when, in her might,
Athena returns again:
Returns, and relentless batters the lie,
The pride and the passion, though
The law, the rite, the custom die,
And the race fall with the blow.
Yea, when I seemed myself a lie,
My temples down I tore, ®
Commanded ages let me die,
And men forbade adore.
Tho’ sage Illusions beckon hence
To systems more complete,
On autochthonic Common Sense
Rigid I plant my feet.
While Space conceals a coign unknown,
While riots fear, disease,
Athena’s priesthood shall intone
Her limpid litanies.
Yet I but rule while I obey,
For Thought, my region wide,
Is a dim atoll, wet with the spray
Of a lapping Higher Tide.
Yea, I am Wisdom, for I see
In life, death, heaven, earth,
The Unknowable, the Mystery,
The Brain that gave me birth.
BERNARD O'DOWD
(in “Dominions of the
Boundary ”).
BERNARD O’DOWD
DIPPING into slang—and all these
tight little stanzas packed with
thought and capital letters forces
us to fly to slang for relief Bernard
O’Dowd is “ a tough proposition.” The
man-on-the-ferry says, “ Yes, that is all
prettily put, and compactly phrased ; he’s
got a wide scientific vocabulary ; he’s read
all the latest books upon evolution, and
picked up all their big new words ; he is apt
at a definition, picturesque and forcible at a
phrase, logical in his deductions ; but
And a swarm of questions buzz round him
with an exasperating persistence. “ What
is O’Dowd after ? What’s his game ? Where
does he hope to get to, or does he hope to
get anywhere ? Is he forever going on
cutting up science into neat little snippets,
eternally dosing us with compact little rime-
coated couplets ? Has he nothing 61se to do
but define Pate, and Yulcan, and Juno,
and Hermes, and Athena, and Isis, and
Bacchus in the precise terminology of
science ? What call does he feel to inflict
upon us these dicta of modern thought ?
What is his philosophy '? What ecstasy does
he seek to communicate i What—oh, what,
is his little game ? ”
And Bernard O’Dowd goes serenely on
with his interminable neatly-rimed stanzas,
for this is his third book of verse ; it is
called The Dominions of the Boundary (T. C.
Lothian, Melb.) ; and it does not differ from
his former books, and the stanza is the same,
and the big scientific words show no sign
of abating, or the capitals of slipping sur-
reptitiously into the lower case, or the neat
definitions of becoming any more final. For
give this poet an umbrella or a parsnip, and
he would promptly open out to us the inner
meaning of umbrellas, or snip off for Us the
scientific symbolism of Still, in
this latest work there is a theme, a sugges-
tion of a philosophy. O’Dowd is doubtful
of the value of the science he has so labori-
ously studied. Accurately and almost auto-
matically reflecting the present attitude of
science, which, having proved that matter
does not exist except as a form of motion,
now leans toward mysticism, O’Dowd,
Science’s faithful scribe, begins to doubt the
scope and finality of this new knowledge.
After we have probed and mapped and
measured, is there not something left over,
something incommensurable, some hinter-
land of the senses where strange things may
yet wander, some shadowy place whose
mysterious twilight may shelter —let us
imagine—a soul 1 The dominions of the
■boundary are real dominions, the gods are
still alive, the world still plastic to the
touch of inspiration, the casements of the
soul not yet closed to the vagrant winds of
wonder.
But tho’ we mumble sceptic saw,
Or sweet old prayers forget;
And tho’ we dream of Higher Law,
The gods are living yet.
For they who will no .Monitor,
Save One Unnamed, allow,
Allegiance deep to Love or War,
Or Chance or Wind avow :
Avow by no mere cult of names,
No pattering of creeds,
But by the sacrificial flames
Of lifelong thoughts and deeds.. ,«
All is not daylight in the day,
Not knowledge in the known ;
The life we live, the prayer we pray.
From deep, to deep, is blown.
Though Reason claim omniscient worth,
And lush her dogmas thrive :
Our present home is more than earth,
Our senses more than five. . . .
Though mountain watchmen daily see
Horizons widen far,
Dominions of the Boundary
Have ever ruled, and are....
Yet, shaping slowly through the storm,
And bidding darkness fade,
Evolving eyes discern a Form
No clay-creator made:
A Symbol Form that mirrors ours,
That is, yet ih not we,
That seems to hint of Higher Powers
Than Fate or Memory..,.
All this is not in itself symbolism ; it is an
admirable and lucid definition of symbolism.
It is the deliberate description of a well-
informed onlooker; it is the song of thd
skylark reduced to its notes. Valuable, cer-
tainly ; but Meredith observed the skylark :
Shelley was the skylark.
But O’Dowd is a slave to the striking
word. He can say things with an admirable
simplicity, but he prefers to say them with a
shout. His skylarks do not reach Heaven ;
they, and you, arrive at a “cobalt landing”
—and it’s a bit of a shock. Maybe he will
say that the shock is good for us ; but he
must remember that he depends upon the
clarity of his medium to bring out the full
value of his meaning, and peppering his
verses with big, uncouth, prosaic, scientific
terms only impedes his delivery and baulks
his listeners. Has a poet any right to im-
pede the flow of his message with such
ungainly word-chunks as “ earthquake sala-
manders,” “psychopathic,” “prophetic
glyphs,” “universe’s phagocytes,” “ions,’
‘ ‘ spectroscopic synthesis, ” ‘ ‘ lava-j etted
leads,” “ hyperbolic space,” and “ asymp-
tote ” 1 And where is the poetry in a stanza
like this ?
The sanctions aboriginal,
Taboo and wizard’s fear,
Aversion and its ritual
Of frown and “ cut ” and sneer,. ~
And what means this ?
The selvage of Infinity
My cameos adorn.
From such wilful obstacles as these it is
almost with relief that we , flounder into
cheerful jingles that suggest a quite unmeant
humor :
And he who boards my lithe canoe
And paddles away with me
Shall land anon on Mount Meru
And all the Devas see....
And Hope's immortal ibis drinks
From my impartial Nile,
With Love the lotus, Fate the sphinx,
And Death the crocodile.
But not content with his snippet-stanza,
this persevering poet economises in words.
His one aim seems to be to get as few words as
possible ill each line. Frequently he achieves
a two-word line, as in
Clairaudient interpreter.
Clairvoyant,Pythoness.
Anri at last he reaches his goal in this re-
markable one-word line,
Amanuensis-annalist.
But having called attention to these
obvious and apparently wilful faults in
O’Dowd, let us indicate why he still can be
termed a poet, and a poet of worth. Though
it remains a pity that so often he says it in
prose, O’Dowd has something to say. Out
of his scientific terminology he often
rises to inspiration; the earthiness of the
phrase cannot disguise the loftiness of the
thought. His work is always, suggestive ; it
“gives furiously to think.” Thus “Fate”
speaks:
Ah ! but you say that woman’s love
Delivers from my land !
Nay, she is but a dainty glove
Upon my wizard hand.
And his phrase is often something more than
picturesque, sometimes perfect:
Ye spring to life, the weak, the great,
The singer and his song,
When lo ! a Wind that seems a Fate
Besoms them all along.
While there is the pulsing of human blood,
the universal appeal, in stirring verses like
these :
O come, Australians, maid and youth,
Enlist in our crusade !
From wan Gomorrahs of untruth
Flock to the Bacchic glade !
Away, away from antique wraiths
And clammy deities !
On ! on ! to transcendental faiths
And young Democracies ! . . . .
Away with Mammon and his woe,
Nor his Holy Places spare ?
Bacchantes, Maenads, at them ! 10,
■— His bale-eyes stranglers, there ! . • • »
Extirpate from your virgin soil
Exotic hate and wrong ;
And thrill the torpid nerves of toil
With vision and with song. '. . . .
Finally, in the closing stanzas of “Athena,”
the poet rises to the peaks of song, and sees
all the kingdoms of earth spread out beneath
him. The majestic close of this poem shows
O’Dowd far above the thick mists where he
so often seems content heavily to wing his
way.
MAY SINCLAIR
IT must reluctantly be admitted that May
Sinclair has lost the divine fire. Her
second “big” novel, The Helpmate
(Constable, per Sydney Book Club), has
not fulfilled the great promise of that aston-
ishing product of a woman’s brain, The
Divine Fire. That was a novel which, by its
unconventional treatment of an exceptionally
interesting theme, its satisfactory rendering
of character, its broad knowledge of life, its
freedom, except in its final chapters, from the
feminine touch, aroused the expectation of a
new woman writer of the first rank. In The
Helpmate May Sinclair drops back a little
from that pride of place. Yet this fearless
treatment of a conventional theme —
the discovery by a “pure” woman that
her husband has had a “past”—dis-
plays the author’s wide sympathy, her
ability to free herself from her sex and see
life steadily from the aloofness of the true
artist. It would have been hailed as a great
book had it come from an unknown pen ;
but May Sinclair had led us to expect a
greater. Yet she has given us a remarkably
convincing character in the person of the
“bad” husband, and despite the wife’s
irritating “purity” she contrives to keep
us interested in her to the end. Anne is a
product of the English country vicarage ; her
religion to her is of infinitely .greater im-
portance than the happiness of her husband.
It seems impossible to conceive an Australian
Anne ; the type is purely English.
/
When Anne, upon her honeymoon, makes
the great discovery that her husband,
Majendie, has had an “ affair ” years before,
disregarding the common-sense advice of
her husband to go back to her warm bed,
she prays.
Never before had Anne hurled herself into the
heavenly places in turbulence and disarray. It
had been her wont to come, punctual to some holy,
fore-appointed hour, with firm hands folded, with
a back that, even in bowing, preserved its pride ;
with meek eyes, close-lidded; with breathing
hushed for the calm passage of her prayer ; her-
self marshalling the procession of her dedicate!
thoughts, virgins all, veiled even before their
God.
Now she precipitated herself, with clutching
hands thrown out before her ; with hot eyes that
drank the tears of their own passion ; with the
shamed back and panting mouth of a Magdalen;
with memories that scattered the veiled pro-
cession of the Prayers.
And then it seemed that the storm that had
gone over her had rolled her mind out before her,
like a sheet of white-hot iron. There was a re-
cord on it, newly traced, of things that passion
makes indiscernible under its consuming and as-
piring flame. at the falling of the flame,
the faint characters flashed into sight,upon the
blank, running in waves, as when hot iron changes
from white to sullen red. Anne felt that her union
with Majendie had made her one with that other
woman, that she shared her memory and her shame.
For Maj end ie’s sake she loathed her womanhood
that was yesterday as sacred to her as her soul.
Through him she had conceived a thing hitherto
unknown to her —a passionate consciousness and
hatred of her body. She hated the hands that
had held him, the feet that had gone with him,
the lips that had touched him, the eyes that had
looked at him to love him. Him she detested, not
so much on his own account, as/because he had
made her detestable to herself.
That is conceivably the only possible
attitude an English country vicarage girl
could take ; but any other wife would after-
wards simmer down. The “sin” had
occurred in the past: she would contrive
to make the best of the present. But—
possibly because her name was -Axme :
nothing can be done (in literature)
a woman of the name of Anne—she does
not simmer down. She takes re _g
in her religion, and overlooks tne
giveness which that religion enjoins. *
ultimately, by her very piety, she dnveaher
long-suffering, and still lovmg, hus
again to the very sin she had hoped to enable
him to ‘ ‘ forget. ” Anne suffered from excess
of religion, and though the pathos °i der
position was very real to her, it was a P atho
self-created. To be candid, Anne lacked
common-sense. . , , .
The other characters m the book are
drawn with that fine touch that we have
learnt to expect from May Sinclair, par-
ticularly human is “ the spinal lady, Jtditn
with the spinal disease :
Edith Majendie was a loving but shrewd ob-
server of the people of her world. Lying on her
back, she saw them at an unusual angle, almost as
if they moved on a plane invisible to persons who
go about upright on their legs. _ The four walls of
her room concentrated her vision in bounding 1 •
She saw few women and fewer men, but she saw
them apart from those superficial activities whic
distract and darken judgment. Faces that she
was obliged to see bending over her had another
aspect for Edith than that which they presented
to the world at large. ... It was better to lie on
a couch than stand on a pedestal; you knew, at
least, where you were.
And May Sinclair talks—for a writing woman
—surprisingly good sense about the question
of the sexes, in particular about the infidelity
of loving husbands. Here is a sample of the
straight talk one of the men gives Anne,
when it is almost too late :
“You good women are apt to runaway with
the idea that—that this sort of # thing is tremen-
dously important to us. It isn’t.”
“ Then why behave as if it were ? ’’
“We don’t. That’s your mistake. Ten to one,
when a man’s once married and happy, he doesn t
think about it at all. Of course, if he isn’t happy
—but, even then, he doesn’t go thinking about it
all day long. The ordinary man doesn t. He s
got other things to attend to —his business, his
profession, his religion, anything you like. These
are the important things, the things tie thinks
about, the things that take up his time.”
“ I see. I see. The woman doesn’t count.”
“Of course she counts. But she counts in
another way. Bless you, the woman may be his
religion, his superstition. In your husband’s case
it certainly was so.”
Her face quivered.
“Of course,” he said, “ what beats you is—how
a man can love his wife with bis whole heart and
soul, and yet be unfaithful to her. ...”
And very plainly this rude man tells her :
“If you want to get down to the root of it, it’s
as simple as hunger and thirst. When you’re not
thirsty you don’t think about drinking. When
you are thirsty, you do. And sometimes —not
always—when you can’t get clean water, you’ll
drink water that’s—not so clean. Though you
may be very particular. Mind you, the more
particular a man is, the thirstier he’ll be. And,
supposing he can never get a drop of water at
home, and, every time he goes out, some kind
person offers him a drink —can you blame him
very much if, some day, he takes it ? ”
The real trouble with Anne was that she
was not spanked. The tragedies of all
wives named Anne—and of several who are
not named Anne—would never have hap-
pened if they had only regularly been
spanked. But if Majendie had spanked
Anne, we would not have had a fine novel. —
F 2. In the end, tardily, Fate came along
and did the spanking with a satisfactory
thoroughness.
« '
Murray issues two remarkably cheap reprints of
George Borrow’s Bible in Spain and Lavengro, at
2s. 6d.
George W. Lambert was recently afforded two
indications that, in a 'popular sense, he ha 3
“arrived” as an illustrator and artist in England.
Harmsworth’s offered him, at big prices, the illus-
tration of a number of their new sixpenny editions,
and Pearson’s wished to give first place in the
magazine to an illustrated article upon his work.
Lambert declined both offers.
T. Fisher Unwin (1 Adelphi-terrace, London)
offers another one hundred guinea prize for a
“first novel.” All MSS. must be typewritten;
all stories must be more than 75,000 words, and
preferably less than 100,000; and novels, accom-
panied by an explanatory letter, and remittance
to cover postage for return, will be received up
till April 30th, 1908. Meantime T. 0. Lothian
(Melb.) offers a £lOO prize for the best Australian
novel.


A
No. 42,
-m w
m
*
•s.
1
- !
.
No. 6226.
Fashions for Y©tmg Australians.
CHARMING SUMMER DRESSES for Fair Aus=
tralian Girls, the latest styles, faithfully cut,
well made, and smartly trimmed, are offered
under the irresistibly attractive and economising
influence of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
WE are Specialists in the production of well=
made Clothing for Burly Australian Boys.
Whether made in Galatea, Japanese Silk,
and Washing Fabrics, or Summer=Weight Tweeds
and Serges, our Garments are
TOP QUALITY AT BOTTOfI PRICE.
&
■~v
No. 3931.
No. 3890.
m-. **•
J£
No. 9244.
No. 3900.
SEND FOR SmriEß FASHION PORTFOLIO,
POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
No. 3655.
ST
S&r.
\%
t
.
&
No. 6220.
No. 3627.
A
No
3633
No. 3650.
No. 42—Child’s White Soft Book Muslin Cos-
tume, trimmed Lace and Insertion-
-20 22 24 2G in.
8s Od Os Od 9s 6d 10s Od
No. 6226—Child’s Cashmere Dress, Cream, Sky,
Cardinal-
-20 22 24 26 in.
10s 9d 11s Od 12s Od 13s Gd
No. 3655 Girl’s White Muslin Dress, trimmed
Valenciennes Lace and Insertion—
-27 30 33 36 in.
13s Od 14s 9d 15s 9d 16s 9d
JNo. 3900—Boys’ Tussore Silk Norfolk Tunics—
-18 20 22 in.
15s 6d 16s Od 16s 6d
In Tussore Silk with White Kid Belt—
15s Gd 16s Od 16s 6d
No. 3931—Boys’ Navy Serge Norfolk Tunic-
-18 10 20 21 22 in.
10s Od 10s 3d 10s 6d 10s 9d 11s Od
8s Od 8s 3d 8s 6d 8s 9d 9s Od
No. 6220—Child’s Cashmere Dress, Cream, Sky
Cardinal— J ’
20 22 24 26 in.
13s 6d 14s 6d 15s Gd 16s Od
Similar style—
8s Od 0s 6d 10s 6d 11s 6d
No. 3627—Girl’s White Muslin Dress, trimmed
Embroidery and Insertion—
-27 30 33 36 in.
21s Od 22s Od 23s Od 24s Od
No. 3633—Child’s White Muslin Dress, trimmed
Muslin Embroidery and Insertion—
22 24 26 in.
17s 6d 18s Gd 19s 6d 20s 6d
No.
8650—Girl’s White Muslin Dress, trimmed
White Muslin Embroidery and Insertion—
-27
18s 6d
30
10s 6d
33
20s 6d
36 in.
21s Gd
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade »■ BOOKS-
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Pipino Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
Howto Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets or
tiie Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 carts. 2s each. /Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home, Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over -100 colored
plates and engravings, 7s Od posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post is. 3d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
NkwTricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, is. ; post Is. 3d.
%W~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of an* State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Stiver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, andyou take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
IF
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
great offer is only open for a limited time,
Write at once. THE GUTTA PEBCHA TRADING CO., 120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sea Capsule marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT/ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Fxaparad only by J. 0. BNO, Ltd.. ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON. UNO.,
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists , <£ c., everywhere .
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPBTITXOKT.
WINES ne Beat onlv SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Valuable Presents <
FREE!!
N© MONEY WANTED
We have decided to give away *5OOO in good and
useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Pei\ny Picture Post Cards in Australia
1 Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
J Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
) Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver ;
> Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS to those who will distribute our
Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you
any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your friends or keep for
N
i your own use, and at any time within one month after you receive the Cards send us the amount
i due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good,
useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Payment. Remember ! You
may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever
with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so. A
Trial Solicited, simply send us your Order fcr One, Two, Three, or up to Ten Dozen, and
we will forward the’Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to
show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Presents we give away
to our Agents.
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W.
C.R. tailor-made O.D.
UP CORSETS. V if
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
■to- 1
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
women that here is a' type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
■+>
If any difficulty In procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Go.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY.
75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING,
Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
TWO LEADING BRANDS
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER,
RISK S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Wholesome and Refreshing.
Guaranteed Life Preservers.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
ARTE It*
gmtfWS, Pow™ l?01LIL§.
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER.
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE
For the COMPLEXION.
iafer““'” , T
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature oi


m
A
m
There’s nothing so
bad for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
ine cold or a
hard cough,
or when there
is inllamma-
mation in the throat or lungs, then
you need
Ollier’s
'Cherry 9eeteral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind.
Prepared by Dr. i. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A,
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
fiREKXEH
fl
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
Facile Princeps'
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
A Picture of
HEALTH
The Evidence
from 250, Edgware Road, Newtown,
N.S.IV., May Ist, 1906 :
“Without success I tried many pre-
parations for my daughter Lillian,
who suffered at various times from
measles, rheumatism, eczema, and
consumption of the bowels; in fact,
she was so ill that I thought she would
die. Then I tried Scott’s Emulsion
with such good results that she has
gained considerably in weight, her
flesh is firm and solid, and she is a
picture of health and vigour.”
(Mrs.) V. FILEWOOD.
The Reason WHY
She Grew Strong
<£ Scott’s Emulsion suited her
because of its sweet, pleasant taste,
and its digestibility. This is the
result of the Scott process of manu-
facture (the outcome of 30 years’
experience in making cod liver oil
emulsion) of which you get the ad-
vantage in Scott’s, and no other.
TRADE MARK
Then, again, the cod liver
oil used in Scott’s is the
purest, finest, most in-
vigorating in the world.
G. “ The fishman with the
fish” on the package
assures to you results
every bit as good as Mrs.
File wood got.
scorrs
EMULSION
Prom all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
''Y
o
&
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGXOM’S
IRISH MOSS
mmm
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
THE BEST NATURAL - APERIENT - W'ATEK.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM,
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably sihown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years."
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Beautiful Home Decorations
L
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“Ol'B FAVOKITK” COI.D H4JIKI (Washable) Kxeii and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and wastamg
-without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
" S AI'OI.IX KX l.iiKLfi.’’ For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, UeJal Beds and
any other article.
- SAPOLIS” BATH TUB KSAMKI, In White, Kose, I vmy
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-todate dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLEf " FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALXJjHIXtTM' ENAMEL, Etc.
liilWNrt
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
Is.
.. lOd.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD’S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge
w lynglonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
NATURE’S
PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
BlanoMange
DELICIOUS 6 DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT. OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
Ask your
GROCER. STORES or
CHEMIST.
LIGHT VERSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Maudie’s Lament.
We wander on the crinkling yellow sands,
Beside the sea.
Paul’s poet heart with ecstasy expands—
He raves to me ;
Points out the cloud effects, with eager hands,
Exultingly.
Together do we tread the ti-tree shade,
Some lines he quotes
Of Shelley, or some bard of lofty grade,
Whose golden notes
Were sweetly piped, to gladden man and maid.
Or he devotes
His thoughts to dreamings, as beside him I
Walk on apace,
With downcast heart, or just a smothered sigh,
While smooth my face
Appears to his regard. I trust the lie
Is done with grace.
We linger in the twilight, and his voice
Grows gentler still.
The charmed hour for lovers to rejoice
His soul does fill
With thoughts exalted and with dreams most choice,
But lacking thrill.
The moonlight patterns on the path begin
My sense to tease ;
But Paul enraptured tries my ear to win
With ecstasies
To Nature all the time —think what a sin !
He’s on his knees.
Our sleeves e’en brush. My hand is close to his,
Yet he’s content
To poetise right on. He thinks it bliss
To give thought vent,
To scorn emotion, and from hearts dismiss
Sweet sentiment.
I earn nice compliments for sympathy—
We are in tune ;
But, oh ! there’s nothing new, it seems to me,
Beneath the moon.
We walk for hours, and talk of poets dree,
And never spoon.
VIC.
E.S.
“This is Lamb!”
In this deadly moral Age,
When the Righteous ramp and rage,
If you find your little frolic
Marked taboo,
Take a lesson, friend, to-day,
Ere your chance has passed away,
From that artist of the Ages,
From the Jew.
In his diet, as you know,
He must certain things forego
And avoid the flesh of porker,
Must the Jew;
He may eat of beef his fill
And on mutton do his will,
But the thrice-entrancing bacon
Must eschew.
But Ben Adhem in the night
Saw a vision all of light
And it gave him cunning counsel
In this guise ;
If thy soul for ham doth burn
If for pork thy palate yearn—
Go—baptise thy bacon Mutton,
And be wise.
Brother Gentile—ls it true
When thy meat is marked taboo
By the Censors who thy little
Fun would damn
Thou dost sometimes change a name
And baptise forbidden game
With that good old Hebrew label—
“ This is Lamb ”?
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
Madam Moneybags.
Her lips were laughter-laden,
Her eyes were stars afire ;
Of ev’ry earthly maiden
She was my heart’s desire !
Her ways were sweet and childlike,
Symbolical of Love;
On me she ever smiled like
An angel from above.
We used to fondly talk of
The sun, and moon, and stars
When ours was like the walk of
The gods on Luna’s bars !
She said the crimson sunset
Was grand to gaze upon;
I trow there wasn’t one set
But thro’ her tresses shone !
But ah ! a Goth who traded
In tallow, wool, and hides,
My Love’s affections raided
With dollars for his guides.
His ruse spelt doubt and danger
For me, and so to-day
She met me as a stranger—
And looked the other way !
They talk of hides and tallow,
Of “ trusts,” and “bulls,” and “bears” ;
The world to them is fallow
Of all save stocks and shares.
Her lips are laughter-laden
For Moneybags, Esquire—
And yet of every maiden
She was my heart’s desire !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


*j4rt^U&tal
Trade /
SYDNEY Show Rooms
56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
adburvs cocoa
A cup=ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
bury’s Cocoa is '
not only PUREST and BEST,
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to buy and use. A h£f tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
possible to
New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Tobacco
Kant* facto rod in
Richmond Virginia
C
Packed by RlowNi* Co.A^enr.s.Syduty.
Facsimile (reduced) of 2oz. tin.
tjzhz&~~
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot fret
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
No connection with
Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs
SPECIAL lIDIIIUR
Scotch whisky
m
a
m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
A
V
V*
Vi
z
ami
m
fitL?
T &cfermwator
V JSEVERfAtIS.
head office - Mutual Life Building,martin Place,Sydney.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full iiirtieiikrs Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agiicultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
l6l KING ST., SYDNEY
LA DIE S’ premie PHMniiciuun oun n u Between Elizabeth & Caatlereajrh Streets.
pfrirfS. S * t HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*- TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
1 SR? ’ suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS. TOILET
REQUISITES arid all accessories in stocky Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
„ ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
I ersonal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR
m
m
I
a
iLbiii
lb
m
.
J
in
nil
I
D
mark mcisT*"*!
WRABtffrtAW
don eNS
: i ■»
>• !>
Si i*ll)
*3lll
inn
m
HJiHi
HJjih
ill!
J
M
hi
ll
i
S
S:
z
mark necis
l. £AW” /|iP‘
Netted t/Chan^ 0
0Ur tASTS TIN
S
Not because it is easily laid
not because it is cbeap—but
because it is g'ood, Architects
specify RUBEROID.
ALL STOREKEEPERS.
E. RICH <a CO., LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1449.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1907.
Prick 6n_
A CHANGE OF VIEWS.
The determination of Mr. Wade to make practical use of the powers of Government for preventing the stoppage of the community’s coal supply will not
lack whole-hearted public support should the necessity arise for giving effect to it .—Sydney TELEGRAPH, 15/11/'07.
There is no need for compulsory interference in industrial matters. Voluntary conciliation is the plan. —The same paper, in effect , hundreds of times
within the last few years.
TORY PRESS: “SAY, YOU MUST STOP THESE MEN FIGHTING. LOOK AT THE HARM THEY’RE DOING.”
THE LAW: “BEG PARDON, MUM, BUT I’VE BEEN LEARNING QUITE DIFFERENT FROM YOU LATELY.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
* A ustviiliii fov the A.'kistviiliiins* 9 *
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
IHE Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North
Sydney, Im.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
D (In Advance, Only)
Per Annum £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ### # 0 7 0
By sen< R n !l direct to The Bulletin Office. Twenty-Six
Millings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
. e Qaes, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
e aaai essed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Con espondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
{and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ofiicials ._ The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The .Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
[ those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 tvords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings,
communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
Mo. 'will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded viithout stamps
for return it i will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Made and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—t.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.—TF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole Advertising Agent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1907.
A STRIKE THAT NEEDN’T HAVE BEEN.
The N. S. Wales public played with fire, and now
its fingers are burned. Day after day, pitilessly,
relentlessly, the papers attacked the Arbitration
Act. When a hole was found in it they prised it
open. They invented flaws in it, and dwelt
malignantly upon them. They pointed out how
it could be evaded. When it was evaded they
magnified the evasion. They never suggested,
when a hole was discovered, that it should be filled
up; when an evasion was practised they never
suggested that it should be punished. They made
it their whole business to show that Arbitration
was “ impossible” and a failure. Employers, on
the whole, never liked the Act very much. The
system really is in the interest of the fair em-
ployer, because it prevents unfair competition on
the part of the sweater and the man who
makes his money by sharp practices. But that
virtue in it was carefully smothered ; and, deluded
with the bogey cry of Socialism—which is all
that Arbitration isn’t—the employers generally
accepted the word of the daily papers that Arbi-
tration is an interfering curse. It was easier to
convince them of that because in one or two cases
awards had not been as honorably accepted by
workmen as they ought to have been ; wherefore
the yarn was spread that Arbitration was a game
of two-up played with a double-headed penny : if
the workmen won, the employers had something
to lose, and therefore had to obey the award;
while if the workmen lost, they usually didn’t
have anything to lose, and they couldn’t be gaoled
in a mob ; also they couldn’t be made to work on
terms they didn’t like, wherefore no award was
really binding on them. So the Arbitration Act
was covered with contempt, and was turned into
a newspaper Aunt-Sally.
* * * *
And the public—the infinitely bigger public
which wasn’t a party to the actual disputes—
swallowed the daily paper misrepresentations with
its morning coffee, and either openly approved or
let the thing slide as not having anything to do
with its own pocket. Two of the bricks aimed at
the Act seemed to the general public (considering
that animal in the mass) to be quite fatal. One
was the yarn that you couldn’t enforce the
law, because the gaols wouldn’t hold an
army of two or three thousand workmen against
whom an award had been made, supposing
they wouldn’t abide by that award. The other
yarn was that you can’t force men to work under
conditions they don’t choose to accept. The
.P ubllc likes to see a fair deal, and it said
that this wasn't a fair deal. The fact, however,
was that the general public only saw what the
papers wanted it to see. It didn’t see that in
these respects this law differs from no other law.
Persistently throw mud at any Act, ridicule it
and bring it into contempt, and it cannot be en-
forced. Ihe average man does not obey the law
because there is a policeman on the beat and a
lock-up down the next back-lane. He bows
to it because he instinctively knows that obedience
is necessary to peace, order, good government,
and national prosperity. If 20,000 men in Sydney
made up their minds to-morrow that the butcher
was demanding too much for meat and the baker
too much for bread, the gaols would be just as
inadequate to hold that crowd if it pillaged the
shops as they are to hold the same-sized crowd of
strikers. Still nobody suggests that on that
account the law which protects the butcher and
the baker should be abolished. Nobody suggests
that, on account of the impossibility of gaoling
everybody who might possibly break the law, the
L f wis , . impossible” and a farce. That law is
obeyed in general, then, not because of the hand-
cuffs and legs-irons in the distance, but because
the public through generations has been taught to
respect the law, until now it does so instinctively.
* * * *
Instead, however, of encouraging respect for
this Arbitration law, and setting to work to cure
whatever faults experience found in it, the papers
aimed a daily handful of mud at it, and en-
couraged disrespect for it. And that is about the
worst use to which any paper can put its power.
How full of danger it is to tell the public that no
law need be respected which can’t gaol all the
people who break it, one Newcastle incident of
last week shows. The miners faced their strike
notoriously not very well supplied with funds,
.but, said their president—if the newspaper re-
ports can be believed—- 4< a battle was never won
with money. While there is food in the country
the men will take it if they are hungry, and
what is more, if necessary they will organise
to take it.” That is the first result of
hammering in the argument, day after day, that
one law was a farce, and couldn’t be enforced,
because the gaols wouldn’t stretch wide enough to
take in all who might brea.k it. That dangerous
argument, for which the people who have been
attacking the Arbitration Act are wholly re-
sponsible, has soaked in; and now the miners’
president applies it to some other law. If it was
a good argument as applied to one law, it was
good as applied to the other. As a matter of fact
it is a rotten argument all the time. Yet Peter
Bowling (assuming he has been correctly re-
P° l rte<i ) is neither more mischievous nor more
ridiculous than the Sydney Telegraph and
Herald and the rest have been.
* « * *
Peter Bowling was neither more ridiculous
nor more mischievous than those papers, because
while breaking down the Arbitration system’
they offered nothing in its place. Of course’
there is but one alternative, and that is precisely
what the public is getting—the strike. And now
that the public and the papers have got it, they
don t like it, and they squeal for an “ independent
tribunal. But an independent tribunal that
only arrives after the row has started, is liable to
find that it has to deal not with one trouble, but
with a dozen, and not with reasonable beings’ but
with men whom the lust of fight has made
bitter and furious. The process in such
cases is always the same. Once the row starts an
appeal has to be made to passions and prejudices.
The men have to be whipped up to the sticking
point; the story of their wrongs has to be painted
for them, and for those whose support they hope
to get, in black and crimson; small grievances
have to be magnified; they have to be told that
the eyes of the world of labor are upon them, and
that their battle is the battle of unionism The
other crowd has its own part to play. Its busi-
ness is to weaken the funds, and—the cold
brutality of it! make the cry of hungry wife and
child lash the unwilling workman back to the
collar. Even from the employers’ point of view,
it is a mad policy. Once the workman might
have been crushed by that flogging. To-day
b® i® only bitter, and he takes the remembrance
of it with him to the polling-booth. The
Fat employer, who knows that his coal won’t
waste during a strike, may lash the workman
into submission; but at the polling booth they
meet as equals. The employer and the capitalist
may think they can win strikes; but the fruit
of those victories will be verv bitter politics
btnkes became a dangerous weapon for Capital to
have anything to do with when universal suffrage
came. °
* * * *
Apart from the difficulty of getting at the true
tacts of the case once the row has been allowed
to start, there is the difficulty of getting an°ry
bitter men to agree to terms, or to abide by
agreements. Premier Wade last week proposed
a tribunal. The 8. M. Herald, approving of
the creation of a hurried scratch court after
it had helped to destroy one which had
been constituted deliberately, said that, even
it the parties did not accept its findings the
latter would “give the public a tremendous
weapon against the strikers or the masters as the
case may be,” so the two of them might “as well
face the inevitable.” In other words, the S M
Herald, having tried a strike, is driven back upon
this : that public opinion, shaped by the findings
of an impartial court, must, after all, prevail.
Exactly! Public opinion, thus arrived at, must
be supreme. But its supremacy ought not to be
left to chance ; and it is left to chance so long as
the public opinion is not embodied in an award
of a court, which, if necessary, will be backed up
by the whole power of the country. The Arbi-
tration Act set out to do in an orderly way what
it is now admitted must be done, even if, for want
of time, it has to be done in a disorderly way.
And so the one alternative—the strike—having
been tried and proved intolerable, the whole hostile
public attitude with regard to Arbitration must
inevitably be thrown overboard, and a new and
saner one adopted.
SOME DEFENCE CONSIDERATIONS.
Rents are cheap in a Fools’ Paradise. But
security has to be bought with dear money. The
Australian Government, having decided to take
the first steps towards enforcing a system of uni-
versal training for military service, must face the
fact that this re-organisation of the defences on a
sound system will call for money. By altering
the basis of service from pay to patriotism,
and abolishing the system of bribing citizens
to do their duty, an enormous saving in cost will
be made (Australia could never hope to support
a huge standing army or a paid militia represent-
ing anything like a reasonable proportion of its
manhood); but even by following the rational
economical Swiss system of unpaid, universal
training for service, there must be a big increase
in our present defence responsibilities. A fight-
ing force of at least 250,000 must be aimed at; the
provision of rifles, should be of the
simplest and least expensive) and the payment of
the necessary permanent staff to carry on the
organising work, will assuredly make the mili-
tary Estimates very much larger than in the past.
But the spirit in which the position should be
faced is that security must be obtained, in spite
of the disorganising influence of the cheap rents
m the Fools' Paradise.
* * -* *
Many indications give promise that that spirit
can be evoked. Present Defence Minister Ewing
is converted to a faith in universal service. It is
on his orders that one of the most capable
and intelligent officers of the forces is now
drawing up plans showing the adaptation of
such a system to Australian conditions. The
Prime Minister has expressed himself publicly—
in London more decidedly than here—in favor of
universal service, though probably his irritatingly
philosophic mind still weighs small scruples of
doubts as to whether it should be pushed on with
m Australia now. A majority of the Cabinet is
understood to favor the same system; almost
certainly a majority of Parliament does. And
the principle cause gains friends with every
election and every debate. All this represents
great progress since The Bulletin first brought
the subject into prominence, and the National
Defence League, in the Constituencies, and W. M.
Hughes, in Parliament, began the agitation for
compulsory universal service. Now the idea of
buying defence with subsidies has been practi-
cally abandoned; the patriotic duty of the
citizen to help to defend his country, not
for pay as a means of livelihood, but as
a matter of right, has been generally recognised.
Ail this gives reasons for hope. What remains in
doubt is the sincerity of the Cabinet, and the
question of its desire and ability to take a big and
a sure step forward. The cause could be verv
easily ruined at the present juncture by the adop-
tion of some half-hearted expedient or of some
basically unsound method of organisation. Sin-
cerity and practicality are the essentials; and it is
more important that a small, safe, sure step
forward should be made than an ill-considered
and hasty rush made for a position which would
have to be afterwards abandoned.
* * » *
The ultimate ideals of national defence are
That every physically fit man in the country should be
able to take his place in the defence ranks either on land
or sea in case of danger.
That the uniform should be the least that is necessary
to distinguish the soldier, when he is on duty, from the
citizen.
That the warships and equipment should represent the
last word of modern military science, and should be
manufactured exclusively in Australia.
That the citizen-soldier called upon for the minimum
amount of training-service should be taugh t to regard that
service as a matter of citizen duty, deserving no monetary
reward, but that the extra service required from non-
commissioned and commissioned officers, and specialised
units, such as engineers and gunners, should be fairlv
recognised. J
That promotion should be strictly by merit, without
reference to social rank.
That the necessary permanent; staff should be kept
to the lowest degree possible consistent with efficiency
but should be paid at such good rates as to com-
mand the best of talent, and should have the advantage
of a fair pension system, so that fairly early retirements
might allow of quick promotions.
Mostly the above state only the obvious. But
they represent all the principles necessary for a
sound defence system ; and not one of them can
be safely neglected. Every step taken should
be towards the ultimate end which they repre-
sent ; and the closest consideration should be
given now to the financial arrangements necessary
for this radical re-organisation.
* * * *
In the past, Australia has spent a ridiculously
inadequate sum on defence. An extraordinary run
of good luck has kept that carelessness from being
disastrous, but has in no wise vindicated it. For
the future, more, much more, must be spent, and
the time is fitting now to consider the
sources from which the extra money can be
recruited. The taxation of the people must of
course, represent the main source. Taxation is
always unpleasant—as is the payment of life and
fire insurance premiums. But, when itis necessary
the unpleasantnessm us tbe put up with. The burden
of defence expenditure may, however, be lessened
very much if wise statesmanship consents to take
lessons from other countries which eke out the
resources of taxation by State monopolies. The
nationalisation of the Tobacco Monopoly in Aus-
tralia has been already much discussed. It might
well form a part of a defence reorganisation
scheme. A State Tobacco Monopoly would not
only help the revenue without burdening the
people, but it would provide an excellent
means of pensioning off aged military and
civil servants (as is done in France). A Common-
wealth Alcohol Monopoly suggests another easy
source of revenue, and it could be made at the
same time a potent engine of social reform.
These are not really extraneous issues. The posi-
tion is that Australia is threatened with national
extinction by the overflowing Asiatic wave;
that within a very short time a navy and an army
must be created at necessarily great expense ; and
that, to carry out the work without unduly
burdening the people, all possible means of rein-
forcing the Treasury must be made available.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Police Court Muck-Battling.
There is need in N.S. W. for a Minister of Justice
strong enough to deal stringently with the appall-
ing Sydney police-court solicitor, his awful clients,
and the magistrates who tolerate them. Every
day the lower courts are besmirched by cases
wherein the parties and their lawyers muck-battle
unchecked, and in defiance of all decency. The
litigation arises, often enough, over trifling
causes. The city police court, as it exists,
offers a useful field for the ventilating
of bitter family hates. Brown has quarrelled, in
the past, with his neighbor Smith, and the rift
has never healed. A shadow of an opportunity
crops up, and Brown takes Smith to Court, or
vice versa. Ostensibly the issue is as stated on
the charge sheet; in reality the moral and other
characters of Brown, Smith, and such of their
relations and friends as can be induced into the
witness box, are at stake. It is a dis-
tinguishing mark of these cases that in cross-
examination there is no question too outrageous
and irrelevant for the hideous police-court solici-
tor to ask. Conventionally secure by the fiction
of legal practice, which lays down that, what-
ever a client tells his lawyer to be true in regard
to a witness must by the lawyer be accepted as
true, this class of practitioner hurls the mud he
is hired to hurl with enthusiasm. His “questions”
are in effect so many assertions. Every moral
degradation is imputed to whomsoever happens
/° r * e ot^er side.” The imputations
(wild, preposterous charges of criminality mostly)
may not have a vestige of foundation. The point
is that a proportion of them will be recorded in
the evening papers that afternoon, to the confusion
of the victims, which is the main object sought by
those inspiring them. Everybody in court recog-
nises this, but no one seems to mind. The magis-
trate—some of him, at any rate—has his little
joke on the subject, whereat the police laugh
dutifully, and the reporter wearily resumes his
shorthand. Then the case over, the litigants trail
homewards with such characters as they have
beenspared. A measure of blame in the matter
may be laid at the door of our cross-examination
system. It assumes that the cross-examiner will
always be more or less reputable, or that the
presiding magistrate will have sufficient strength
to control him when he gets beyond bounds. But
the defender of a system that is found to work
well elsewhere may fairly urge that when a
magistrate fails to preserve the decencies in
his court it is Parliament’s duty to step in
and put him where he won’t be responsible for
further maladministration of justice. The incor-
porated Law Society might consider the cases of
solicitors employing such methods as have been
instanced, and debate whether that line of con-
duct accords with the Society’s standard of ethics.
And then there are the people who litigate for
trivial causes, with the object of blackening each
other’s characters. Probably nothing will dis-
courage them but the passing of a Bill authorising
a magistrate to fine parties who waste the State’s
time and money hurling irrelevant muck at each
other through the agency of a “gentleman by Act
of Parliament.”
The Milk in the Cocoanut.
The following correspondence is interesting (lest
it should be considered a violation of confidence
we suppress the name of the advertising firm
which didn’t renew): —
Representatives of Indian and Colonial Newspapers and
Advertising Agents.
D. J. Keymer and Co., 3 Whitefriars-street,
__ „ , London, E.C., 11th October, 1907.
The Manager, the Sydney Bulletin,
George-street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australasia.
Dear Sir.—We have been applying to our friends Messrs,
for a renewal order for advertisements in your
paper, and they have written us as follows
“ Owing to the increased Australian tariff, which affects
us considerably, we regret that we are unable to consider
the renewal of our advertisement in the Sydney Bulletin.
We suggest that it might be advisable for you to com-
municate with the proprietors of The Bulletin with a
view to inducing them to use any influence they can to
create as much opposition as possible against this high
tariff, especially as they will suffer from the reduced
advertising which is sure to result from the imposition of
such an onerous tariff.”
We thought that perhaps the above remarks might be
of interest to you ; we regret very much not being able
to obtain the renewal order.
Yours faithfully,
D. J. KEYMER & CO.,
L. D. Falk.
MEMORANDUM FROM “THE BULLETIN,” SYDNEY.
214 George-street, 14th Nov., 1907.
To Messrs. D. J. Keymer and Co.
3 Whitefriars-street, London, E.C.
Dear Sirs.— Re your favor of October 11th.
We would be glad if you would inform your friends,
Messrs. -- — , that The Bulletin believes that a
high tariff is necessary in Australia ; and that it would
not dream of suggesting any modification in the tariff in
order to serve some business advantage of its own.
We thank you for your attention to our interests in
writing us on the matter.
Yours sincerely,
WM. MACLEOD,
Managing Director.
This sort of threat addressed to other papers may
account for some of the frenzied press opposition
to an Australian tariff. The Bulletin prints
the correspondence for the public good, not with
any offensive assumption of virtue. It is, after all,
not so much virtue as common sense to refuse
£lOO for your honesty when to remain honest
means £lOOO or more. But the pity is that others
don’t seem to recognise the fact always.
♦ —-
The New Protection.
Practically all the Victorian agricultural imple-
ment makers have closed down their works, in
consequence of the decision of Mr. Justice
Higgins in the Excise exemption application.
The argument in justification is that the industry
will not pay the wages granted by Justice Higgins,
and live. If this is true, it can be easily proved.
All that is necessary is for the manufacturers to
hand their books over to the Court, and, if the
figures bear out the statement, higher Protection
Defenceless.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They say that Land is rich whose argosies
Bring in of wealth and goods a mighty tale,
Although her sons slink round with knocking
knees,
And never breast a gale.
They tell us, if our city hutches swarm,
And rear a puny race, whose noble aim
Is but to keep outside a uniform,
And back a gambler’s game ;
That such a land, in sooth, may wealthy be,
And proof thereof they give in lengthy lines
That tell a tale of millions in the sea,
Of fleeces, flocks, and mines.
And yet—on second thoughts—it seems to me
The land that prizes not a manly breed,
And takes no care of human husbandry—•
That land is poor indeed !
If work be wanting in the human hive,
Can countless foreign imports carry cheer?
If Manhood wilt—can Man uplift and thrive,
Or fight when foemen near ?
We flout the Mongol—but the Mongol comes;
Yestreen he broke the Cossack’s weighty spear;
To-day he proudly beats a myriad drums,
And nations hark—and fear.
And we, who boast us sprung from Britain free,
Who share her ancient pride of derring-do—
We cannot cast one gun to guard our sea,
Or shape one rifle true.
And should some sea disaster cut us off
From far Britannia’s vague protective plan,
To get us arms, our hat we needs must doff
And beg them—from Japan ;
Or from some other half-enlightened land
Whose simple children do not seem to know
How noble ’ tis like helpless sheep to stand
While o’er them sweeps the foe !
Q.
PRO PATRIA.


can be given. The object of Protection is not in
the mam to create a class of wealthy manufactu-
rers (though it should seek to give the manu-
facturer reasonable profits), but to build
up a nation of strong, well-fed, self-
reliant people ; and any system of Protection
that fails to do that misses its purpose. That
nation-building is impossible on a wage of six
shillings per day is obvious, and an industry that
can only pay such wages isn’t a desirable national
industry in the full sense. It needs to be improved
or abolished. In this case Australia cannot afford
to abolish it, therefore it must be improved.
But the onus of showing that higher Protection
is wanted falls on the shoulders of those in the
industry, as they have the information in their
business books. The idea of appealing to the
High Court to declare the Excise Act unconstitu-
tional is simply foolish, for if it is declared so the
chances are that the Protection necessary to
enable the local industry to live in the face of the
competition of the American Trust, will be swept
away. The present Australian Parliament is solid
on the fact that protected industries shall pay fair
and reasonable wages; and for the manufacturers to
fight that determination is folly. The sensible
course of action is to accept that fact, and
settle down to demonstrate beyond refutation
exactly what rate of Protection is necessary to
enable them to pay the wages that have been
declared by the Federal Arbitration Court to be
fair and reasonable. The other course can only
end in disaster.
«
A Lesson.
If there were any suspicion of “ pose ” about it,
the Melbourne Cup-Day attitude of Prime Minister
Deakin and his wife wouldn’t be worthy of any
serious notice. But neither can be suspected of
pose; a nervous dread of publicity, rather, is
their mutual characteristic. So it’s worth while
Australia getting a little sermon (to be taken as
preached) from the text that, on Melbourne Cup
Day—the greatest holiday of the Commonwealth —
Alfred Deakin stuck to his work in the Australian
Parliament, and Mrs. Alfred Deakin nursed
babies at the Women’s Exhibition. That Aus-
tralians are a pleasure-loving people is often
brought forward as a reproach. It has no claim to
be considered as a reproach unless to the “plea-
sure-loving ” can be prefixed “ unduly.” A love
of pleasure is a good thing in a nation. It is a
sign of sanity and of healthy optimism; it is a
means of preserving a reserve-fund of national
vitality for a crisis. The object of life, after
all, is to live, and there is no real living in such
existence as is mapped out for us by gloomy
apostles of Purityranny. But —isn’t there a sus-
picion that at the present time Australia might
be said to be “unduly pleasure-loving”? When
it is remembered that the time is one of grave
anxiety; that the sands run rapidly out to give the
signal for a struggle for very existence —there
seems reason to suggest, for the national good, a
little less horse-racing, a little more attention to the
serious things of life. Prime Minister Deakin,
attending to the tariff which is to give the Austra-
lian more work, more defence, more chance of
attracting desirable brother citizens, and turning
his back to do so on the carnival of pleasure (and
the debauchery of roguery) which the Cup repre-
sents, should suggest some long, serious thoughts
to his fellow citizens. Mrs. Deakin, neglecting
the claims of Fashion and piquant Folly to devote
herself to the cradle, should reinforce those
thoughts strongly, in the minds of women par-
ticularly. In truth, we can do with a little more
attention to the factory and the cradle, a little
less to the racecourse, in our Commonwealth.
♦
The Jap Cleans His Slate.
Reijiro Wakatsuki, lately Japanese Vice-Minis-
ter of Finance, and now Imperial Financial Com-
missioner, has written a memorandum which shows
that the Jap is humping a burden that is calcu-
lated to take some of the crimp out of his tail.
Converting Monkey money into Bull currency at
10 yen = £l, the Jap revenue from taxes was
£9,300,000 in 1898; for this year the Budget esti-
mates a revenue of £26,900,000, or nearly three
times as much. There are no positive figures,
Wakatsuki admits, concerning incomes; but
taking the amount of non-taxable incomes (under
£3O a year) to total the same as the taxable in-
comes, then—
Japan is paying- only 24 per cent, out of her income, in
order to support the Government, to pay off the debt, to
educate her children, and what not.
Wakatsuki is amazed at the moderation of the
claim of the country upon the people. True, he
says, he has left out something :
There is indeed also the amount of local taxation for
counties, municipalities, towns, and villages, but that
does not come up to 30 per cent, of the National tax ; so
that the whole burden of tax, national and local put
together, on the shoulders of the people, is only some-
thing like 30 per cent, of their income.
Then there are certain State undertakings, “the
revenue from which may be regarded as partaking
of the nature of a tax ” ; but, allowing for those,
“ the percentage of the taxes will not turn out to
be more than 35 percent, of the people’s income.”
And again Wakatsuki is amazed. “Why,”he says,
“ before the Restoration the people had to ear-
mark half their income to pay the taxes ! ” So
nobody need be frightened, he concludes in effect
—Japan will do it all right. And perhaps it will.
It is just because it is most likely that the-man-
with-the-name-that-is-getting-monotonous is right
that The Bulletin feels an iceberg creeping down
its spine. For while Japan is doing things like
this, men talk in Australian Trades and Labor
Councils:—
Fight ? I’ve got nothing to fight for. If any foreign
invaders come, they can have it. I’m not going to boost
up things for somebody who’ll stand on a hill 10 miles
away and give orders.
And at the same moment, in an Australian Par-
liament, on the strength of a rare surplus which
wasn’t a real surplus after all, the Treasurer was
proposing to cut down taxation, so that, among
other things, nobody who hasn’t an income of
£lOOO need pay any income-tax at all. In
1900-1 Coghlan computed that N. S. Wales
incomes amounted to £64,000,000 (no computation
has apparently been made since); and last year the
total N.S. W. revenue from taxation was £4,403,056,
including £3,022,351 from the Commonwealth
Customs; so that, even allowing only the same
income last year as in 1900 (and it was probably a
third more), the taxation amounted to less than 7
per cent., or, including Commonwealth taxation,
it was only 8 per cent. Now even that 8 per cent,
is being reduced. Japan has undertaken to wipe
out the whole of its war debt in less than 30
years, and so far has done in that matter more
than it undertook to do ; and it is paying off the
cost of its railways—that is to say, it is wiping off
the railway debt, and having the railways to the
good. On the other hand, N. S. Wales, the Ma
btate of the Australian group, at the very moment
that it is cutting dovyn its taxation below 8 per
cent., announces that it this year proposes to go
deeper into debt to the extent of about £2,500,000.
Japan knows that in any great struggle of the
future it will have to borrow, and borrow heavily.
No war can be fought on taxes : to carry through
even the little Boer War, Great Britain had to
pile up its debt from £635,040,000 in 1899 to
£798,349,000 in 1903. In the time of supreme
trial the country that cannot borrow is lost.
Japan prepares for that time by wiping the slate.
And Australia —well, Australia goes piling up its
debt; goes on advertising itself as the country
which cuts down its poor 8 per cent, of taxation
at the very moment that it adds something more
to a burden of debt which in bad times is already
intolerable. Nothing is more certain than that
the country that cannot borrow cannot put up
much of a fight under modern conditions, yet in
peace Australia is exhausting its ability to borrow
—while up North is Japan, thinking no sacrifice
too grea.t to clear the old lumber out of the road,
so that it may go to the world’s Cohens with the
indescribable advantage of a clean slate.
♦
The Years Eoll On.
Richard Arthur, M.L.A., writes
Nearly four years have gone since the guns at Port
Arthur thundered their menace and warning to the
people of Australia. But Australians have given no
sign. Pour precious, inconceivably valuable years have
gone, years in which a nation bidden to hear its flat
of death might have armed itself to the teeth and awaited
defiant and unafraid the coming of the worst. But we
have done nothing. In four years, we have not added
20,000 to our garrison from outside Australasia. We have
turned deaf ears to the call for universal service. We
have built no fortress and mounted no guns. Our naval
defence is but the fabric of a dream.
Yet there has not been wanting further warning
through these years. The ominous retreat of the Im-
perial battleships from the Pacific and the Mediterranean,
the ready assent to the proposal that the Australian
naval subsidy should be withdrawn, the insistence on her
treaty rights by Japan to the United States, the transfer
of th<* American fleet to the Pacific, the flooding of Van-
couver by Mongolians—are these not writings on the
wall that the blindest and most ignorant might read?
Pour years hence, the Australian people will be as they
are to-day. It needs no prophet to proclaim this.
Then, as now, they will be awaiting, with feverish
anxiety, Tattersall’s numbers, and another English
cricket team. There will be no difference except
that they will be four years nearer their doom.
Their blind politicians will still be found denouncing the
iniquity of immigration in their Parliaments, and affirm-
ing vehemently that this free people will never submit to
the yoke of militarism. We will have our De Blocks to
prove conclusively “the impossibility” of war and
invasion; Peace Society fanatics, and dreamers in
the efficacy of Hague Conferences will hail the
near approach of the millennium. And we will
clutch eagerly at their doctrines, lest some glim-
mering of the things that are should shatter our
dreams of ease and mirth, and reveal to us the gulf of
despair that yawns before us.
Add to these another four years, or yet another, and, in
all human probability, the concrete tragedy will have
begun. How it will come, no one can say. But whether
pacifically, or by blood and iron, when Asia begins to
flood this empty land, another infinitely tragic and heart-
rending drama will have been written in the pages of
history.
+
The Coal Strike.
After N.S.W. Premier Wade had talked things
over with the two sides to the Newcastle trouble,
he drew up a scheme for submitting the whole
dispute to arbitration—all except Hebburn. The
men were to undertake to go back, and the owners
were to undertake to put them back, in every mine
except Hebburn. This special treatment of Heb-
burn is in itself enough to suggest that Hebburn is
Newcastle’s barrel of gunpowder that needs very
careful handling. Yet there is nothing special
about Hebburn in the matter of the selling or
hewing rate, and this Newcastle trouble is sup-
posed to be all about the selling and hewing rate.
The owners agreed to put up tne selling rate Is. a
ton from January 1, which meant fourpence more
per ton for the miners; the miners wanted the
selling rate put up 2s. per ton, so that they could get
eightpence per ton more. Hebburn was not
interested in that more than any other mine.
But Hebburn has coal-cutting machines, and the
miners refused to work with them, on the ground
that possible electric “sparking” was dangerous
in a mine where gas had been found. At the
back of the owners’ minds, to be arrived at by a
little tunnelling, is the belief that the coal-cutting
machines are at the root of the whole trouble. If
they could afford to be perfectly frank—
which parties rarely can be when a fight
has started —they would say that the new
machinery is what the miners aim their brick
at. To the objection that nothing that the
miners have said can be quoted in support of that,
the frank proprietor would reply that the miners
are too politic to say anything so unpopular. It is
just about as certain as anything can be, then,
that the owners—or their chief representatives—
believe that they are fighting for the right to
use this modern machinery, and that the selling
and hewing rate trouble is largely a pretext. If
however, they were asked for evidence, they would
probably be driven to confess that they hadn’t
got anything definite : it is just a vague, misty
general idea. The superior employer-person
gets a lot of smug self-satisfaction in assuming
that the benighted workman is opposed to ma-
chinery ; but the truth is in most cases (there are,
no doubt, lamentable exceptions) that what the
workmen object to is that they don’t get a
“fair cut” of the extra profits that eorne from
modern inventions and methods. And even apart
from the machinery side of the question the
Newcastle miner is undoubtedly moving along
towards the idea that the producer is entitled to
all the product. You can call him Socialist
or what you like, but he still refuses to see why his
own share of the selling price of the coal should be
so small. Coal companies have paid 20 per cent,
dividends on their capital, and he wants to know the
reason. That idea undoubtedly sticks in the men’s
minds, and grows; and the demand for nationalisa-
tion of mines, so that nobody should pouch big
profits, also grows steadily. The demand for
eightpence more per ton instead of fourpence is a
practical effort to put his belief into action. But
it is quite likely that it isn’t the right way.
The leading mine-owners see that clearly, and
therefore they stipulate that no fresh questions
shall be raised in any arbitration proceedings.
That is a cunning move. If the miners can’t
prove that the world’s market for coal is strong
enough to stand 125., then the owners win. The
question whether the miner ought to get
more than 4d. of the extra shilling cannot
then be raised. The miner, in short, will
be barred from securing the increased reward that
he believes he is entitled to by any other process
than by increasing the selling price; and in the
natural order of things the mine-owners would not
fix the rate at 11s. if they believed they could get
12s. All of which explains why the owners, who
have not been friendly to arbitration as a general
thing, come along promptly now, and accept it on
the condition that questions that have not hitherto
been raised shall not be raised now.
Japan, Korea, and the United States.
A well-informed correspondent from Nagasaki,
Japan:—
Secretary Taft’s visit to the Japanese capital is over
and gone ; and the public mind here is now chiefly co
cer "?d with apprehending: the exact object of his mission
u decree of its attainment. It cannot be forgotten
that, though Mr. Taft’s last trip to the Orient was os ten-
flibly on a tour of inspection in the Philippines, he vet
found tune for a conference with the Tokyo authorities
so important in its nature that it involved the immediate
dispatch of a £5OO telegram to Washington. Whether
the present visit involved anything so important will not,
of course, be known for some time ; but, as the negotia-
tions of the visit of two years are believed to have
seriously affected the status of United States citizens in
K ° r< r a > the results of the present meeting with the Tokyo
officials will be watched with much interest by all
foreigners in the Orient.
It is known that for some time negotiations of a desul-
tory sort have been goingon between the Governments of
Japan and the Uniced States, with, as yet, no satisfactory
adjustment of the immigration problem. It will be re-
membered that color was given to this rumor some time
a B' c, » when the Japanese Minister of Foreign Affairs inti-
mated that Japan had been asked for acquiescence in a new
treaty formally excluding Japanese immigrants from the
United States, and that she had refused. It is averred
that since then Japan has been asked if she would con-
sent to a revision of the immigration clause in exchange
for America’s concession of the right of naturalisation to
Japanese domiciled in the United States, and that Japan
likewise declined this offer. The last move on the part of
the United States Cabinet is said to have been the pro-
posal to approve a new tariff union between Korea and
Japan in exchange for the latter’s consent to a new treaty
excluding immigrants; which, it is affirmed, the Japan-
ese also declined to entertain.
According to the opinion of those most likely to be
familiar with conditions in the Far East.it is much less
probable that the American Cabinet has made such a pro-
posal as the last-mentioned than it is that the Japanese
authorities would have hesitated to consider it; for at
the present time Japan is doubtless very anxious to win
the consent of the Powers to her formal annexation of
Korea. Nevertheless, American residents of the Far Ease
will remember that, should their National Government
make this move, it would be no more surprising
than what the Washington Cabinet has already done
in the same connection. It is well known that, in
the first clause of the treaty of 1883 between Korea and
the United States, it is stated that if either of the high
contracting parties is injured by a third party, the other
shall interfere with her good offices to effect an amicable
settlement; it practically guarantees the independence of
Korea, as other treaties do the integrity of China and the
provinces contiguous. But in November, 1905, when the
surrender of Korean independence was demanded at the
point of the sword, and an appeal in accordance with the
treaty was made to Washington, it was refused, and
the treaty approved by the American Congress, and
which could not be annulled without the consent
of that body, was abrogated by the American Cabinet.
The immediate result of this arbitrary action was that a
protectorate of Korea was enforced by Japan, with Korea’s
consequent loss of sovereignty and independence. Every-
one out here feels that Japan must have had some secret
understanding with the American Executive, else this
extraordinary procedure would not have been followed ;
and the lengthy and expensive dispatch which resulted
from Secretary Taft’s visit to Japan, two years ago, is
naturally connected with the solution of this mys-
tery. One rumor has it that America’s concession
of her Korean rights to Japan was the price she had to
pay for Japan’s acquiescence in the Portsmouth Treaty
without indemnity from Russia. At any rate, if the
Washington Cabinet can abrogate a treaty made with a
foreign Power without the consent of Congress, it may
very well be that the same Executive can exchange the
rights which American citizens now enjoy in Korea for a
settlement of the troublesome immigration question.
It is, however, the hope of all foreign residents of the
Far East that the United States will refrain from making
any further concessions to Japan in Korea, even though
by withholding them the final adjustment of the emi-
gration question should be indefinitely delayed.
If we are to judge from the sentiments of the
public press, Japan is desirous of hastening the
annexation of Korea, which she cannot formally
do without the consent of those Powers having
special treaties with Korea, guaranteeing specific
rights to their nationals resident in that country.
Chief among the rights so guaranteed in Korea
are those of ex-territoriality, placing foreign subjects
under the legal jurisdiction of their own con-
sular authorities ; and, furthermore, these treaties fix in
a general way the amount of Customs duty to be levied
on imported goods. In the enforced agreement of
November, 1905, Japan promises to respect the conditions
of these treaties and the independence of Korea.
The latter promise she has failed to keep ; and if so,
what reason is there to suppose she will ultimately
adhere to the former ? As the Japanese populace is,
apparently, rampant upon the annexation of Korea,
nothing is more natural than that the authorities might
seek to turn the attention of the disaffected masses from
the immigration agitation to find appeasement in the
glory, and freedom for spoliation, which formal annexa-
tion of Korea would bring. But American citizens
have already suffered serious financial losses through
their Government’s abrogation of the treaty with
Korea; and if they should now be handed over
to the tender mercies of a Japanese tariff and
taxation systems, the extinction of American trade
in Korea would be only a matter of time. The
material interests of the United States in Korea are
greater than those of any other nation ; and if the Ameri-
can Government could be persuaded to surrender the
advantages that these interests have secured, it would
not be so difficult for Japan to get the other Powers,
whose interests are less, to follow suit; for if the more
important interests are compliant, it would at least be
inconvenient for the lesser to refuse.
Wanted : “ Gentlemen’s Sons.”
This advt. recently appeared in some Maoriland
papers :
rpHE EASTERN EXTENSION TELEGRAPH CO.,
-*• Cable Bay, Nelson, has a few Vacancies for gen-
tlemen’s sons, between 16 and 18 years of age, to
qualify for appointments in the service ; matricu-
lated preferred. Apply, by letter, to
THE SUPERINTENDENT.
And thereon hangs a tale. For years it was
thought that the youngster who could get into
the Eastern Extension service was one of the
lucky ones of the earth. Many think so still, and
officially the idea is fostered —for obvious reasons.
Yet last year, when the staff at Nelson (M.L.)
petitioned for better treatment, it was alleged
that, of eight operators whose service ranged from
five years down to 20 months, the best-paid man
got £96 a year, and the worst-paid £4B. It was
further alleged that of three men, who had in turn
to take charge of the station, two were paid only
£72 a year; also that juniors, who had to take
turns at the instruments, got £24 a year—less than
10s. per week ; and there are deductions for pen-
sion, breakages, etc. In reply to the Nelson staff’s
petition, the general manager wrote: —
The argument they use—that their salaries are inade-
quate to meet the cost of living—opens up a very wide
question, and if we were to take it into consideration the
Board would probably have to revise the scale of pay
throughout the service. I cannot, therefore, see my way
to bring the matter before the directors. We may, later
on, have to transfer some, if not all, the men who signed
the letter, but nothing definite just now can be promised.
Presumably it is because the co. can’t take into
consideration whether its salaries are equal to the
cost of living or not that it wants “ the sons of
gentlemen”; the “gentlemen” won’t see their
sons starve, even if the co. won’t take into con-
sideration the matter of a living wage. Observe,
however, that the vague promise of a transfer
was held out; and that has been the co.’s enticing
bait for years—transfer to an “ Eastern” station,
where the pay is supposed to be something
Oriental in its magnificence. But though the
bait is still there, the Eastern Extension officer
finds that it is getting a harder job to reach and
swallow it. For the Eastern Extension has tasted
the cheap yellow operator, and its governing
officials have pronounced him “ the best opera-
tor in the world ”; so the old plums of the
service come more rarely the way of the young
white officer, and the pay is wretched —de-
graded by that yellow competition, which drags
down everything it touches.
Monopolies, trusts, combines, and all the rest of
that family are never good enough to he allowed
out of sight. Like Australia’s black brother
Combo, it is best to keep them in front of you, or
you are liable to get hurt, even when they have
been cooing in the most friendly way. The New-
castle coal-mine owners fixed up a combine, which
they called a vend, something over 12 months ago.
The object was to put up and keep up the price of
coal; and as the price of coal fixes the miners’
wages, the miners swallowed the vend whole, and
said it was excellent. But the existence of the
vend has consolidated the owners in a way never
before approached ; and when they jump on the
miners they now come down with one dull, undi-
vided thud. Moreover, they know their power,
and on that account stiffen their backs —they
know there is practically no danger this
time of this colliery and that one break-
ing away and granting the miners what
they ask, in the sure and certain knowledge
that the extra cost will come back in the shape of
trade they will be able to collar from their rivals.
That used to happen in the days of the mere loose
federation of coal-mine owners, and it made them
careful. To-day the miners find themselves bump-
ing against a great iceberg, and when they look up
they see that it is the same iceberg that they
poured their blessing upon quite lately ; and they
dimly realise now that a trust is always good
enough to mistrust.
♦-
It is hardly likely that those who plead for the
abolition (or at least reduction) of duties on
strawboard have the slightest intention of
posing as barrackers for sweating. But that
is what it boils down to. At present, behind the
protecting wall of a duty, the lowest wages paid
to an ordinary laborer in the Broadford Mills,
the home of the Australian strawboard industry,
are 365. per week of 48 hours, while experienced
workmen earn from £2 ss. to £3 per week of the
same number of hours. According to some of
the English paper journals, the wages paid in
Holland are the lowest, with the exception of those
in Japan, among manufacturing nations, and a case
was cited where a man, his wife, and three children
toiled 70 hours each per week in a strawboard mill
for the munificent wage of 28s. 3d. in English
money, for the whole family. The family system
is rampant in Ereetrade Holland, and during the
hours of toil the Dutch operative’s home is
empty, for from the grandfather to the baby,
they are toiling in the factory, struggling to make
sufficient to supply just a bare living. And if
the duties are taken off strawboard, the Australian
industry will have to either go down to the same
level, or go right out. Some remarks have been
made about a recent increase in the price of the
Australian strawboard. There is an increase, but
it goes into the pockets of the man on the land,
and not those of the people who make the straw-
board, and it was made weeks before the tariff was
announced. The farmers have raised the price of
the straw—the board makers’ raw material. In
this community, in which the man on the land is
everything and the manufacturer nothing, the
mere statement that the increase of price has gone
to the farmer should satisfy everybody. Australia
exists for the man on the land—when he can get
there.
“ J.Y.” writes dolefully from Maoriland :
The small Dominion with the big debt is getting into
difficulties ; which is bad, because it led the way in some
advanced legislation. State leaseholds, loans to farmers,
old-age pensions, Arbitration Courts, liberal labor laws,
and women’s franchise were all successfully passed into
law and run with marked success by dead and gone John
McKenzie and Seddon, whose chief failing was a mama
for borrowing and jingoism. Now, however, the State
leaseholder, helped by cheap loans from the Government,
has become an arrogant Tory person with a desire to buy
the earth and help the Massey crowd ; the Labor party
is dissatisfied ; the women want seats in Parliament; and
the pensioners are not satisfied with 10s. a week from the
State. Joseph Ward has his hands more than full, and
shows a wobbly inclination to amalgamate with Massey
and fall generally. In the meantime, in these fertile
islands, potatoes are £ll a ton, a 41b. loaf is 9d., mutton
and beef 6d. to lOd. a lb. (both the latter can be bought for
less money in the Smithfield Market in London than they
cost in Wellington), and house-rent is absurdly high.
This state of affairs is largely due to the fact that about
50 percent, of the population are non-producers of any-
thing that is useful. A small army of able-bodied men
is in Parliament, while another lot is struggling to get
there. Another large mob is made up of Inspectors of
Rabbits, or Weeds, or Stock, or Agriculture, or Crown
Lands, or Fish, or Abattoirs, or Dairies, or Something.
Another crowd is fillingin time as commission agents, swop-
ping things, while quite a number is inthe Bookmaking and
Betting profession. Some more just travel about the
Dominion from one race meeting to another (there are
about four race meetings a week in Maoriland) picking
winners. The remaining small section of the population
is endeavoring to produce enough foodstuff to keep the
Islands going, and from present appearances many are
likely to go short of enough to eat in the near future.
»
The S. M. Herald is coming on. It is now print-
ing a series of papers on “ British Mismanagement
in the Pacific Islands,” in which it allows the writer
to put British officialdom in the pillory :
From first to last this mischief has been wrought, not
by the folly or idleness or temerity of Britons on the
spot, but by the timidity, or the apathy, or, in many cases,
the deliberate neglect of the departments in England, by
the contemptuous and contemptible parochialism of men
who, from a London office, with a Londoner’s narrow
outlook (from Dovvning-street to Throgmorton-street, at
most), pretend to administer a world-wide Empire.
Well, what does the Herald propose to do about
it? For the same crowd who, with this ‘‘con-
temptuous and contemptible parochialism,” “pre-
tend to administer” the affairs of the South Seas,
also pretend to administer the affairs of Australia,
and the Herald takes its cue from them—in the
matter of being very friendly to the Jap, for
instance. What has the Herald done these last
few years to help Australia “buck up” against
“ the contemptuous and contemptible parochial-
ism ” ? Did it help Deakin ? Did it not belittle
both his office and himself ? Has it been whipping
up an Australian national sentiment, strong
enough to secure fair treatment from these paro-
chialists in London, or has it been a poor
paroehialist itself, filled with snarls at Australia ?
♦
Arbitration has entered so deeply into the soul
of Riley, workers’ representative on the N.S.W.
Court, that in the Sydney Trades Council, the
other night, he scorned all defence preparations.
“ This council,” he said, “ should stand for arbi-
tration. To establish a military system here
would have the effect of creating a class that
will be against the industrial class.” Well, is
Mr. Riley prepared to go the whole logical
hog ? Will he propose that policemen be abol-
ished, the force disbanded, and the detectives
given a job at tract distributing? And, after
that, will he take the locks off his own doors and
the fastenings off his own windows ? There’s
nothing like being thorough in these matters. If
Mr. Riley is prepared to implicitly trust the Jap
not to be offensive, he can’t do less than place his
whole confidence also in his own countryman, W.
Sikes.


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long- standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises.
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors’ bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and atn simply delighted with it.”
DR. P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.C., writes I cheerfully
endorse the ‘ BAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address :
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street.
Sydney.*
TYREE AUTOMATIC RABBIT DESTROYER.
Tests have now been made at Binda, Crookwell, Coota-
mundra, Randwick, and other places. In every case the
rabbits were killed automatically in their burrows with-
out labor. Price, from £4 each.
TYREE AUTOMATIC SPRAYERS.
Thousands of these machines are now in use for killing
Grasshoppers, Prickly-pear, Lantana, Briars, Blackberries,
Poison-plant. For spraying sheep for Blowfly. For
Whitewashing, Painting, Disinfecting, Fire-extinguishing,
and numerous other purposes. Price, from £4 each. For
further particulars, write Tykee Ltd., 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Land of Gold.”
Theatre Royal “Brewster’s Millions.”
Her Majesty's “ The Blue Moon.”
Oxford “ Robbery Under Arms”—Bio.
Palace Carter, Magician.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Andrew Mack’s Co.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Athenaeum Hall “Robbery Under Arms”—Bio.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
Numerous “last days” are announced at
the Tivoli; .but what will happen when these
last moments have expired the bills don’t say.
Time was, and not long ago, when there was only
one music-hall in Australia, and Rickards could an-
nounce his coming star before it hove in sight;
but he has to be more careful these days. The
music halls have encouraged the art of mimicry and
of pretending to be somebody else, and now that art
is applied by one hall to rob another hall of some
of its glory. Therefore nowadays Rickards daren’t
announce on Wednesday that he intends show-
ing a calculating cockroach on Saturday, because
some rival all would instantly put a cockroach
into training and announce the wonder’s positively
first appearance in Australia for Friday evening,
. wherefore Rickards would strike a public for
which the novelty of calculating cockroach had
worn off.
** * *
Thomas Kingston is still furiously dissi-
pating “Brewster’s Millions” at the Theatre
Royal. But the problem of how to get rid of
vast wealth expeditiously doesn’t seem nearly as
perplexing to a lot of Sydney people as it did
when the season opened three weeks ago; for
between times these people have had to buy a ton
of coal, and the hole the transaction has left in
their purse has robbed them of a lot of the sympa-
thy they used to have for Kingston.
** * *
The “Blue Moon,” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, remains the same color as it was last
week; and the advts. don’t make any mention
yec that any other change is pending.
* * *• *
Magician Carter is still mystifying, with
satisfactory box-office results, at Sydney Palace
Theatre. He will produce the rabbit from the hat
and the lady from the cabinet for the last time on
Friday night week, and thereafter starts on a
tour with the object of baffling the simple
Northerner.
*m * *
Laurence Dunbar ceases to be an implac-
able Russian villain at Sydney Criterion after
next Friday, and transforms himself into a scoun-
drel of another nationality. For on Saturday the
Bilanderson management will present “ The Land
of Gold,” which is a melodrama of local perpetra-
tion and interest. This play is understood to
have something to do with the Varischetti mine
rescue, but full details are unknown—only it is
sure that Miss Duggan will impersonate a lone
but upright female, and George Cross a manly
fellow with no more dread of danger than of so
much limelight.
** * *
At the Oxford, manager Crawley, per
medium of Charles MacMahon’s picture-drama,
“Robbery Under Arms,” has up to date “ bailed
up ” some 14,000 of the public to see Starlight
once again rob the gold escort, stick up Whit-
man’s, attack Keightley’s station, and re-enact
his last stand.
** # *
On account of “The Tyrant’’the forth-
coming close of the Holloway season at the Bijou
will be rather deeply regretted. “The Tyrant”
continues his way to the end of the season—
waving his shivering, long sword at every poor,
cringing female he meets, while the Avenger
moodily stalks him, carefully missing every oppor-
tunity for his revenge until he can use it for the
emphatic finale of the last act.
♦ * * *
In “ The Tyrant ” no one takes the ’ero
seriously enough. He is so smug, and has such
an easy time all through. The three leading
ladies do their best to pamper him ; they arrange
all the escapes (he never gives even a “Thank
you ”). Once he offers means of escape to his
loved Adrianne. “ Here’s a rope,” sez he. “You
let yourself down from the conning tower ” (or
somewhere). “But,” wails the lady, “it’sadrop
of 180 feet!” “My love,” thunders the ’ero,
“do it for my sake !” “I will,” she sobs—“but
are you coming, too?” “Nary a hundred-foot
drop for me,” chuckles the ’ero. “In disguise as
the arch-priest I walk out of here safely. Get to
work now —drop ! ” The odd thing is that they
never drop to the true character of the gallant
hero.
** * *
Three performances of “Rigoletto”—the
only Verdi opera attempted by the German
Opera Co. —have helped to strengthen the tail
end of its season at Melbourne Princess’s. In
“Rigoletto” the useful Rupp got a belated
opportunity to show all that was in him, and he
played and sang the name part with the warmth
and vigor of one who might have been born in
Italy and weaned on macaroni. Miss Stoller, as
Gilda, also did better than her previous best, and
the general effect, without being very impressive,
was unexpectedly satisfactory. Last Thurs-
day night Miss Sara Anderson completed
her contract with G.M. by singing “ Tannhauser ”
once again in a manner worthy of the flowery and
flattering demonstration that marked her fare-
well appearance. Melbourne had always found
Miss Anderson to be an admirable artist, who
kept faith with the advertisement. Duty usually
required her to simulate violent attachments for
a prodigiously stout tenor of superhuman ten-
dencies, and in every instance she answered to
duty’s call with Wagnerian enthusiasm. She
died for Tannhausor ; she suicided for the Dutch-
man ; Lohengrin left her a grass widow, and in
the “Valkyrie” case there was not even a
marriage license to mitigate her grief. The
Melbourne send-off to the lady was a recognition
of the fact that she had never shirked her suffer-
ings. The season closes on Friday with “The
Valkyrie,” wherein Madame Slap, or somebody
else, will have to take Miss Anderson’s place.
For to-night (Thursday) the inevitable appear-
ance of Miss Pinschof, as Carmen, is announced.
And on Saturday there will be a reappearance of
Andrew Mack and co. for seven nights only.
Beginning with “Tom Moore,” the broguey
comedian will produce four dramas within a week,
introducing his gentle top-note into each. From
“ The Valkyrie ” to “ Tom Moore ” is a consider-
able drop in musical melodrama.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal this is the third week
of “ The Midnight Wedding,” or The Bridegroom
on the Balcony. The same drama, indifferently
acted, might have been only a moderate success,
but with Gaston Mervale invading the sanctity of
MissMclntosh’s sleeping apartment, and Harcourt
Beatty chasing the invader off the premises, the
situation becomes thrilling. Oneof these Saturdays
the “ Midnight Bedding ” will be replaced by an
older drama, equally strong in emotional acting
scenes, but not so strictly moral in tone. The
management talks of staging “Camille” for a
week or so, with a view to displaying Miss Madge
Mclntosh in the name part, and Beatty aforesaid
in the character of Armand, which should fit him
like a glove. Meanwhile he appears seven times
weekly (including Wednesday matinees) as the
morganatic son of the Prince of Barataria, a tall,
hard-voiced gentleman, who looks young for
his age.
** * *
The Wirths, in quoting his Grace’s words,
have not made it clear that the Archbishop of
Paris was thinking of the new Olympia, by
Prince’s Bridge, when he said : “The circus is
the theatre of childhood, and the Priest goes
there as the Guide to children.” In this country
children don’t require guiding to the circus. They
get there by crawling under the tent, if possible,
and when it happens that the tent is an iron
structure, by the name of Olympia, they drag their
doting parents to the pay-box. All the same.
The Bulletin approves of priests and parsons at
the circus. (It has a fond recollection of that
manly parson, Brother Charles, who went to the
circus because he liked to see the horses and the
animals, “and, yes, the lady in green tights who
did a great bare-back act.”) Even Judkins should
be admitted, but only on the understanding that
he will not annoy the elephants. This (Thursday)
afternoon the circus will be the scene of a charity
carnival, and many theatrical people and things
will happen, including Dick Turpin and The
Kelly Gang. The Wirths are closing the show in
Melbourne on Saturday night, after which the
elephants will plod their way to another pitch,
where the old familiar canvas town will be spread
as usual.
** * *
The first of two Melba concerts at Mel-
bourne Town Hall comes due on Saturday next
(23rd). Persons desirous of hearing the Boss
Singer of the Universe trill her famous lay are
herewith reminded that the seats not already
booked are few, if any; and if any, they are worth
rushing for. Also those people who have never
heard Melba, and have no intention to buy the
privilege, are disrespectfully requested to refrain
from protesting that her voice doesn’t appeal to
them,
** * *
The Taits have added an up-to-date
attraction to the “ Robbery Under Arms ” Bio.
at Athenaeum Hall. The new film shows Jim
Morrissey toying with his snakes—Jim being the
charmer at whose bidding the copper-headed
reptiles stand upon their tails and dance around
the bar of the hotel. The Taits claim that they,
or the photographer, took the Morrissey pictures
at great risk ; but, thanks to the concertinas with
which they were armed, the Taits came off
victorious. One ferocious snake fastened its fangs
in a concertina, but the Tait continued to squeeze
charming music from the instrument until the
reptile was overcome.
** * *
At the Opera House the programme has
suffered no change of importance since last week.
It is a very good bill in a Rickards manner of
speaking, and it shows evidence of improved
musical taste in the “turn” of Miss Lottie Kay,
a cultured soprano singer who came from England
a few weeks ago, with a voice of very different
calibre to the ordinary imported whimper that
struggles with a ballad at the Opera House.
** * *
Great is the power of the mighty voice.
Clara Butt has been filling Adelaide Town Hall
at prices which would take one to the best seats in
the three local theatres twice, and then leave
something handsome in hand for supper. Julius
Knight has finished his season with “ Brigadier
Gerard,” which is a fine bustling play of action-
far better than “ Robin Hood,” anyway. Hubert
Willis and Miss Elbertorton have pleased Ade-
laide greatly. The Hippodrome has ceased from
producing “ The Bloodthirstiest Bounder in Bow-
den” type of drama, and gone back to vaude-
ville, which is mysterious, because it is run by
Bert Sayers and Brandon Cremer, and they are
giving much the same kind of show, ac the same
popular prices, at the opposition house, the
Tivoli.
** * *
“The Girls ofGofctenberg” still have undis-
puted possession of Her Majesty’s. There is no
slump in the attendances, and the watching
management smiles complacently.
“ Carl Preston ” : Some of the tragic
chapters of early Australian history are written
on the coasts of King Island. Have tramped the
whole 50 miles of its western shores, and have
seen evidence of no less than 30 wrecks, most of
which date back to the days of the gold-rush and
emigrant ships. At the back of one lonely beach,
rising out of the southern ocean, is a tree bearing
a now almost undecipherable iron-plate memorial
notice of the wreck of the British Admiral. It
tells that of 400 who sailed on the vessel, no less
than 399 were lost. Does any Bulletin writer
know the history of the survivor ?
AT POVERTY POINT.
Perth (W.A.) thinks it has discovered a new musical
genius in its 16-year-old violinist Harold Mayer. As is
always the case in -such circumstances, the natives are
hastening to export their find to Europe; and he leaves
loaded with good wishes and the viands his fellow-towns-
folk are determined to fire into him at a farewell banquet.
Herbert Flemming’s new season, opening in Melbourne
on Boxing Night, looks promising. “ The Morals of
Marcus,” “ The Barrier,” “ Barry Doyle’s Rest Cure,” and
“The Beloved Vagabond” are the new plays. Miss
Beatrice Day will be leading lady, and eight new players
are being imported for the productions.
“La Milo” Pansy Montague’s pa was for years the
verger at St. Columb’s Anglican Church at Haw-hawthorn
(Vic.). Pansy sang in the choir. Singing in the choir or
being educated at a convent seems to be the first step
always to a theatrical career.
“ Hamer ”: Poverty Point doesn’t spend much sympathy
on George Musgrove over his Grand Uproar company. In
Auckland, where George met the worst of his troubles,
he told the papers, some five years ago, that it was im-
possible to form a theatrical co. of Australian artists—
there were not enough good people available.
“Locust”: The scratch-cat German sausage-opera
company has killed the market for Germans for a long
time. What a crowd they were ! What arrogance ! and
what appetites ! I shall never hear “ Carmen ” without
calling to mind those 16 chops disappearing down a
golden throat in Adelaide ; or the ten or a dozen cigar-
ettes smoked by a fair soprano in Melbourne in about
half-an-hour after supper. But, oh these haunting
memories ! I never hear the Jewel Song in “ Faust ”
without being reminded of a waiter running out of the
private room of a Maoriland hotel, with blood, and
gravy running down his face. He told me afterwards
that a singer had hit him with a “ portion ” o< duck
because he had handed her a dish over the wrong
shoulder.
Three musical pieces already bespoken by Meynell and
Gunn for Australia are “ Miss Hook, of Holland,” “The
Belle of Mayfair,” and “ The Girl Behind the Counter.”
The first named will be ready for discussion at Melbourne
Royal early next year. The music and book of “Miss
Hook ” are by Paul Rubens, and whereas the comedy is
said to be as dainty and coherent as his “ Three Little
Maids,” the humor of it runs on broader lines. “ The
Girl Behind the Counter,” by the way, was written by
Bantock—not the fleshy Bantock of Williamson’s, but
his brother, who came out to Australia j'ears ago with
“ A Gaiety Girl ” Co. A stage manager, four comedians,
and two leading girls, have been definitely booked for the
M. and G. campaign, and there are other engagements in
view. The leading lady, Miss Alice Russon, is the
charmer who took the place of Edna May in the “Belle
of Mayfair,” what time that much-paragraphed American
was suffering from indisposition, or tantrums, or some-
thing. Miss Russon’s success served to cure Edna.
Dear Bulletin.— Looking through some old programmes
the other day, I saw one of the concert of concert-Meister
Kruse, which is remarkable for the fact that this fine,
capable player of the violin (a credit to his Australian
birthplace) was “ assisted by Mrs. Armstrong, the
charming soprano,” and others whose names don’t
matter. The first concert was at the Theatre Royal on
Saturday, July 4, 1885 (Eheu ! Fugaces, Postume /); of
which theatre the lessee was Samuel Lazar ; the treasurer,
Geo. L. Goodman (still with us). It was under the
direction of Messrs. Williamson, Garner and Musgrove.
The “ charming soprano ” sang “ Sweet Bird” (Ganz) and
“ Best of All” (Moir) ; and I remember, being very young
then, raving for encores, and helping to get “ Bid Me
Goodbye and Go” (Tosti). She also sang “ Maying” with
Mr. Frank Boyle, tenor. At the second concert she flew
higher, and did the Jewel Song from “ Faust,” and “ Thee
Only I Love” (Abt). Though Kruse had the big type on
the programme, I remember that Mrs. Armstrong (now
Madame Melba, world-star) got most of the applause.
The houses were woefully thin. Oh, Time ! Time ! Our
fiery patriotism moved us to proclaim Mrs. Armstrong as
the greatest soprano in the world ; but knowing old
British musical chaps smiled pityingly at us. As if
anything good could come out of Australia ! Good old
Time. He vindicated us. But lam too grey to boast.—
Yours, Locust.
George Darrell has sold a new four-act thrill—“ The
Land of Gold ” —to W. Anderson, and Eugenie Duggan
will start saving Darrell’s hero from the wiles of the
wicked at Sydney Criterion on November 23. In
Darrell’s version of history, the hero “seeks refuge from
his pursuers by assuming an alien’s name and a miner’s
garb,” and that gives a chance to play the rescue of
Va,rischetti all over again. This will make the required
third-act sensation, and gives Eugenie a chance to get
her second wind, so as to complete the hero’s salvation in
time to get a snack before the last train leaves.
Marie Narelle, her health recovered, is touring the
Monaro (N.S. W.).
The Bondi Lady Godiva is not up to specifications. Her
abnormal wig, while it makes powerfully, for propriety,
gets an effectual hammerlock on the illusion aimed at.
The Coventry dame, as portrayed at Wonderland, looks
rather more clothed than does the average Chief Justice
during business hours. In fact, where she doesn’t look
like a wild (and stout) gyurl from the woods, this par-
ticular Godiva resembles a C. J. very much indeed.
“Spango”: Re concert “hogwash” (“Mallet,” B.
24/10/’O7). The kid may be tiresome, but the adult per-
former with an eye for the Sickly and Romantic side of
life is the absolute limit. Heard, the other night, an
apparently sane, sensible Australian human being of the
male sex telling a story about a Tramp and “ Home,
Sweet Home.” It told that an auctioneer was trying to
sell a piano, and wanted one of his fashionable audience
to play a tune on it. No one responded. Suddenly The
Tramp appeared. His raggedness was pathetically out
of place in that haughty gathering. As he hobbled pain-
fully forward, the ladies swished their skirts aside, while
the mensaid, “Puthinj out,”and “ Damn me ! ” But The
Tramp did not hesitate. With his great eyes glowing in
strange fashion, he reached the piano. Even the
auctioneer fell back, realising instinctively the presence
of A Soul. First, the stranger softly played a few notes
of Wondrous Sweetness. Then he BURST into a Flood of
Delicious Melody. The audience was spellbound. Still
the unknown played on : Mendelssohn, Beethoven,
Mozart, Dan O’Connor—he knew them all, and rendered
their works with a master-hand. And at last came
“Home, Sweet Home!” And now handkerchiefs are
held to all eyes, while many, to express their feelings,
crowd around the strange musician. His head is sunk
forward upon his breast. He is apparently sleeping.
They try to rouse him. No answer ! They note the pale,
unearthly calm of his features. They raise him tenderly.
Ah ! why prolong the suspense ? He is dead. (Loud
applause, the females being particularly affected.)
Clarence Weber, Australia’s best wrestler and strongest
hustler of great weights, is busy working up a novel
vaudeville turn, in which he will heave stubborn and
unwieldy substances about the stage, and perform miracles
with red-gum butts, butchers’ blocks, and trifles of the
kind.
It is announced that Andrew Mack, who has been play-
ing the Irishman for years, now proposes to visit Ireland
—presumably to teach it his brogue.
“Hiphen”: Why all this excited yap because Mrs.
Clarionet Butt festoons her photos with infants, husbands,
and other'domestic utensils ? This is the present fashion
in Cold Smoke musical circles. It is more usual among
musical comedy stars. Formerly, it was a good ad. for a
leading lady to have a name as a high-stepper. It
nightly filled the 10s. 6d. stalls with the baldheaded
brigade. Now, however, the position is reversed. The
lady who sings naughty ballads all the week in a costume
that would shock a Manly councillor, has her photograph
in the magazines, teaching Sunday school or tending
the poor and weedy. She gives the public to understand
that she only engages in the theatrical game to support
a widowed father or a drunken mother, or something.
Her ambition in life, she informs the interviewer, is to
settle down and do the rural by coaxing juice from cows.
Virtue is now the long suit. Hence the domestic photo.
If the lady possesses a husband or kids, she plays them
out boldly. Lacking these, she steals or borrows an aged
mother with snow-white locks. She is photographed
with her arm (or arms) round the mother’s neck. She is
dressed in white. She is unjewelled. She looks young,
innocent and fluffy. The Society girl says “How
sweet!” or “How Sad!” She fills the seat which
formerly sheltered a Bald Head. Virtue used to be its
own reward. Now it is made to pay dividends. This is a
commercial age.
Tom Burrows, champion club-swinger of the world,
has just put up one of those curiously-pointless records
which appeal so surely to the great heart of the Anglo-
Saxon people. At the Tivoli Theatre, Cape Town, he
whirled his clubs last month for 61 hours 15 minutes
without a stop. Thomas, like the world’s champion axe-
man, and J. Neild (conversation expert), and many
another endurance marvel, is an Australian.
“ Bobsfcay ”: Please may I throw a handspike at
‘Stag-eland” (“P.P.,” Bulletin, 14/11/’O7). Stage-
land maintains that Captain Stirling Whyte, skipper
of the yacht in “ Brewster’s Millions,” is right according
to his lights, and remarks that the usual night signals
of distress, two red lamps (?) 6ft. apart, are hoisted
nightly. Should “ Stageland ” ever own a yacht and get
into difficulties, and signal for help, he had better not
hoist two red lights, 6ft. apart, for he would get a shock.
Everything afloat w r ould shun him like the plague, for
this signal is exclusively reserved for any vessel "which,
from any accident is not under command, and cannot
therefore get out of the way,” and a good thing to avoid
accordingly. Captain Whyte’s only excuse for this signal
is that he is driving through the storm recklessly indif-
ferent to what is in front, but seeing that he is in a
powerful steam vessel with steerage way, he would be
morally bound to obey the steering and sailing rules, and
if he disregarded them anything he hit would have a
grievance which any Board of Trade tribunals would up-
hold.
“ 10-2-4 ” : There’s no local industry when all is said and
done that has the importing craze so badly as the variety
showman’s. We have pretty and clever soubrettes of a
home-made brand (Brightie Smith, for example, is
smarter, and certainly better-looking, than nine-tenths of
the foreign-trained serios that find their way here) ; also
a galaxy of comics of the Tom Dawson type, some of
whom are guilty of genuine humor now and again. But
they aren’t suffered to profit much in their own country.
The Australian—in this line at any rate—only gets a
“ shop " in the last resort ; and when he or she does, the
situation is low down on the bill—’way after the lady from
the Mile End-road, London E., with the calamitous voice,
and the limbs of a treadmill expert, and several lengths
behind the h-less young Cockney, newly arrived by s.s.
Windjammer, with a moderately fresh rendering of the
Lodger Jest.
The gentle savage of the Bed Sea littoral is to have the
dead monotony of his heated life cheered somewhat by a
circus. Geo. Warren (now in Mombasa, B. E. Africa) is
taking “ Warren’s Circus” through all the coast towns,
beginning with Aden. If Warren, together with his
animals, isn’t eaten by a hungry or disappointed audience
before reaching Suez, there ought to be big money in this
enterprise.
Hartley Davis, in Everybody’s Magazine, just to hand,
gives astounding figures about vaudeville (that is to say
variety) salaries, in America. The following are all pounds
sterling, not dollars :—May Irwin gets £5OO a week ;
Lilian Bussell got a bit over £6oo—the record ; Elsie
Janis has nearly as much ; Mrs. Langtry received £5OO.
Vesta Victoria came from London at £BO, but gets £5OO ;
she bounded up with “ Waiting at the Church.” Vesta
Tilly, another Englander, also has £5OO. Alice Lloyd (not
Marie), yet another, only had a paltry £3O a week in
London, but went to New York at £7O, and sprang to
£3OO. Henry Lee, well known in Australia, has £l6O. Nat
Wills, the Tramp, shuffles along with only £125.
Belle Blanch, a chorus girl, jumped up to £lOO. Barnold’s
dog and monkey pantomime stands him in £2OO. A great
majority of the vaudeville acts in such a city as New York
cost from £5O to £lOO a week. In the best houses no act
costs less than £l5 a week. This is given for the finale,
termed a chaser, because the audience begins to go out.
Hammerstein’s vaudeville house, New York, cleared
£50,000 profit last year. Yet the outlay was about £70,000.
At such an establishment there are 60 employees, costing
£3OO a week, in addition to the performers. Other ex-
penses will be £2OO a week.
“ Carl Preston ” : For sheer variety know nothing to
touch an Outback concert. Becently went to one which
was designed to finance the local cricket club. The pro-
gramme numbered about twenty-five events, as follows:
One piano solo, one piano duet; two sacred, three comic,
two sentimental songs ; vocal quartette; cornet solo
(unaccompanied) ; act by two dogs, who walked on their
hind legs and sat on chairs ; two gramophone selections ;
clog dance ; exhibition of club-swinging (limelight);
maypole dance by local kiddies ; three-rounds exhibition
sparring match ; action-song by State-school class ; tem-
perance dialogue by local Band of Hope; address by
h-less individual; pathetic recitation about a small boy
who fell off a bridge, and went to Heaven ; terribly
tragic recitation about a lifeboat; coffee handed round ;
God Save the King. After which the seats were cleared
away and we had a dance. Carriages 3.30 a.m. I reckon
Bickards’ show (whether Sydney or Melbourne) is a mere
decimal fraction to this.
It has always been a matter for wonder why, even
in the best of straight-out melodrama, all the people
on the stage just at the fall of the curtain assume
attitudes of contempt, accusation, perfidy, defiance or
indignation, as the case may be. Thus the heavy villain
cowers, a picture of snarling surprise ; the hero stands as
if clothed in steel, pointing a devilish forefinger with an
assumption of moral dominance ; the heroine appears to
be struck dead, drooping like a damp towel over a corpse
(if there is one) ; while all the others, if watched closely,
are putting on high moral “ side ” in a series of ridiculous
and unnatural postures. The ludicrousness of this sort of
climax was very noticeable at the Melbourne Bijou lately.
One evening, just at the end of a scene of moral anguish and
pain, the drop scene caught on some projection and stayed.
The hero clasped the heroine, who was moaning on his
shoulder, what time he accused the villain with an out-
stretched paw ; an old woman was weeping, and a male
creature held a heavy horse-pistol. The hero continued
to clasp and accuse ; the heroine continued to moan ; the
old woman continued to weep ; the pistol remained as
before, while the blessed curtain stayed. Then the whole
crowd became anxious, and gazed' fixedly at the flies,
where movements and mutterings could be heard. And
while the audience roared, the little living picture broke
up and crawled—literally crawled—into the wings.
“Hamer”: The dullness of the average super is only
exceeded by his scorn of the actors. He is mostly one of
three —a man w’ho has been supering for years, and now
looks upon himself as a member of “the profession”; a
stage-struck enthusiast, who hopes to “work up”; ora
casual who is hard-up. The casuals are generally the most
intelligent. The supers’ habit of being a crowd has a bad
effect on the old hands. One night, in the “Sign of the
Cross,” where, in the last act, the supers had to be lions,
a new crowd, when the stage manager jerked his arms
energetically upward as a signal for the roars, cheered
Stephanos enthusiastically and joyously as he approached.
The stage manager shouted wildly, swore, and tossed his
arms like a man seeing snakes; and a vigorous “ Hip, hip,
hurrah ! ” floated out from the lions’ den, and scared
Stephanos down the steps. Then suddenly the supers
realised that they were lions, and roared with all possible
ferocity.
“Maori Mac” (M.L.) hopelessly: How is the home
song a thing contemned, and set to naught in comparison
with that which has been imported ! At present there are
in my vicinity four boat-loads of people, and they sing
diversely and incessantly of “The Old Bull and Bush,”
“ Baltimore,” “St. Louis” and some place labelled “ Bom-
bombay.” None of these people will ever visit Baltimore
or Bom-bombay, yet if I wrote a song of “ Taikakariki ”
or “ Ngahauranga’’—which places they visit every time
the butchers or cordial manufacturers hold a picnic—my
warble would be treated with contempt. By next mail I
send to a London publisher the pathetic ballad “ Maori
Maude’s Beply to Jerry the Bake.” If it becomes the
vogue in Soho, some day I shall hear its melodious strains
drifting through my window', and “ My Kaffir Cocoanut”
will be a nightmare of the past. Then I shall be glad,
likewise drunk, and probably disorderly.
The “ Mother Goose ” co. becomes the “ Humpty
Dumpty ” co. in Melbourne next month. The Goose
female abandoned Newcastle owing to the coal dispute,
leaving behind her a record of 334 performances,-also a
travelling total of 15,000 miles by rail and sea.
“ Snell ” : Still another wedding drama to follow “ The
Fatal Wedding,” “The Midnight Wedding,” etc., etc.
The latest is “The Bun-aw'ay Wedding.” Considering
the great run on weddings on the boards, the popularity
of the kid as a conspicuous feature, and the frequent use
of murder, suicide, manslaughter, and death by visitation
of Providence, in plays of our time, I am setting to work
to embody all these features in the melodrama of the
century. My drama will be quite comprehensive. I have
got the chief feature already fixed—that is the title. My
drama will be called “ Births, Deaths, and Marriages.”


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
Insure
with the
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
V PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. g. HOWARD POPE Manasrer"
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 12,
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories,
grave and gay, by the foremost writers of the
Commonwealth.
Tlie illustrations will represent the best Black
and White work in Australia, and will picture
the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year,
is the standard epitome of the life of young
Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, IMP RETURNS will be
accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach this office without delay.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
“ Franz Gr.,” in last Bulletin, argues that
the bush girl has no distinctive characteristics
peculiar to the bush girl. But bush and other
girls are quick to discern the distinctive character-
istics of wise males who are wedded to D.C.L. as
the beverage of their choice. The right brand of
girl, which is every girl, encourages her best boy
to imbibe gleams of mental sunshine from the
right brand of whisky—D.C.L/'
Horse and Hound.— Returning dead beat
from a long day’s shooting the other day, it luckily
struck me that a hot bath with plenty of Serubb’s Am-
monia in it would be the best pick-me-up possible, and so
it proved. Therefore, to all my readers I can with con-
fidence recommend this cure when feeling fagged out
after violent exercise, and am sure they will find it
satisfactory.”
Two Storms.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ANGELINA and Edwin had been married
three months before they quarrelled, and
it is doubtful whether they’d have quar-
relled then, only for the storm. During their
engagement days, there were times when Edwin
had qualms about bringing Angelina to the bush.
“ Ange won’t like the bush,” he said once, as he
toyed with her waved hair ; but Angelina ached
for the bush with a great ache. “ Little white
hands,” said Edwin fatuously, “ they’ll have to
work, cook and wash and clean, and she’ll only
have a tiny, tiny little house with four rooms in
it.” Angelina adored tiny, tiny little houses with
only four rooms, and she’d just love to cook and
clean and wash for Edwin. So they were married,
and everything in the garden was lovely.
The time was n p.m. Edwin had retired.
Angelina sat by the fire in the adjoining room
thoughtfully putting her still-cared-for hair into
wavers. “If anyone had told me Edwin could
snore like that,” she mused, “ I’d have thought
him a person of very coarse mind.” Edwin
snored on. Angelina proceeded with the wavers.
Suddenly it began to rain—not ordinary rain, but
rain that drowned Edwin’s snores. It pelted
deafeningly on the iron roof, and streamed in
dirty black streams down the chimney on to the
whitewashed fireplace. The wind roared and
shrieked, and swept the water under the doors,
and little streams trickled on to the table, and
down the papered-slab walls to the bush-framed
photograph of Angelina’s relations.
“ Edwin,” she shouted, “ it’s raining.”
“ Urr,” answered Edwin, unintelligibly.
“ It’s raining, darling.”
“ Yesh ; shear it, pettie,” said Edwin.
44 The clothes are down by the creek, dearest,”
said Angelina, anxiously.
“No fearsh, darling. Creek wontsh come
down. ”
“ But you remember the bullock?”
“ Eh, bullsk ? ”
“ Yes, lovie, the last storm ; when I saw the
poor bullock feeding in the paddock one minute,
and the next hanging on the fence drowned.”
Edwin snored.
The rain, which had eased off, came on again
in torrents.
“Darling,” called Agelina again, “ listen to
the rain. All my things are on the line at the
creek.”
“ Needn’ be friten’, pettie. Creek wontsh
come down.”
“ Oh, but it will," wailed Angelina. “ I’m
going to the line.”
Edwin snored.
Angelina, in her efforts to get his best boots off
their trees (not gum trees, you know ; Edwin had
once been civilised), wakened him.
“ Whatsh doin’ ? ” he asked, sleepily.
“ I’m going down to the creek to get the
things ; they’re on the line.”
Edwin was eyeing fretfully Angelina’s struggles
with his patent leathers. He leaped out of bed.
“ I’ll go. Don’t be a fool,” he said crossly, put-
ting on a cap, and carefully covering his pyjamas
wfith an oil coat. “ What the Devil you want to
leave clothes on the line at night for beats me.”
Angelina flushed.
“You’ll never find the pins,” she said, with
dignity ; “ besides, you’ll dirty the things.”
‘ 4 Pins ! What do you mean ? ”
“ The things are pinned on. I have no pegs.”
“ Well, you ought to have,” snapped Edwin.
“ Pray don’t get excited,” said Angelina,
loftily ; but her calm dignity seemed out of keep-
ing with the soiled Turkish towel, which she had
rolled round her wavers. She led the way. They
did not possess a lantern ; the kerosene lamp was
out of the question, and a candle or match abso-
lutely refused to keep alight. Angelina tested the
darkness. She put her hand before her face, and
couldn’t see it. The creek roared loudly.
“Hey! Where are you?” shouted Edwin.
“Look out, I believe it’s up. Let the blasted
clothes go.”
But it w'as not to be expected that Angelina
would let the prettiest of her trousseau frillies go,
and she stumbled and slipped on determinedly.
Then she screamed.
“What’s up? Where are you? My God!
are you in it ?” called Edwin, hoarsely.
“ No, I’m in them," wailed Angelina.
“ What ? ” shouted Edwin.
“ The thistles.”
“Damn!” said Edwin aloud. '“Serve her
right,” he added under his breath.
“ They’re all over me—in my hands and face,
and I’m lying in them, and slipping down the
bank,” sobbed Angelina.
Edwin, in his efforts to reach her, fell a distance
of five yards and slipped seven more. And the
creek roared louder.
4 4 Aren’t you coming to get me out ? ” wailed
Angelina. “ Every time I put my hand out I get
more prickles.”
No answer.
44 Edwin, where are you ? ” she shrieked.
44 Oh, be d—d,” shouted back Edwin. “ Stop
where you are, or you’ll be in the creek.”
How Edwin reached the line in the rain and wind
and darkness is rather a mystery. Angelina had
sometimes thought him lacking in courage and
determination, but that was before the storm.
44 Why the h— don’t you order some pegs?”
he shouted.
Angelina, who had struggled painfully out of
the thistles, sat on the bank in sodden wretched-
ness.
44 1 knew you’d say that —why didn’t you let
me go ? I wanted to.”
Edwin did not answer.
44 Have you got them ? ” shrieked Angelina.
“ I’ve got two blanky hatpins,” roared back
Edwin.
“ Don t lose them ; stick them in the front of
your coat, and take care of the muslin petticoat
and the other muslin things. Don’t soil them.”
“ for G—’s sake shut up,” called Edwin.
“ What the Devil did you wind this thing round
and round the line for ? ”
“ Don’t lose your hair,” said Angelina, spite-
fully. ‘‘ If you don’t hurry up you’ll be drowned,
anyhow. The water came down like a black
wall last time. Good enough for you, too,” she
said, relapsing into childishness. “ I’m sorry I
ever married you.”
“Same here,” shouted Edwin, angrily, as he
stumbled away from the line. And from the
added roar it was pretty certain the creek was
coming in the familiar black wall.
“Listen to it roaring,” shrieked Angelina.
“ It’s coming.”
No answer.
“ Edwin ! Edwin, it’s coming—Edwin ! ” she
shrieked again. “ Where are you ? ”
“I’m in the blasted spring, and the blasted
clothes are with me,” answered Edwin, wrath-
fully. “And the blasted things can stop there,
too.”
Angelina’s tears added to the moisture that
already enveloped her. Edwin struggled up the
greasy bank, carrying a huge, round ball of
muddied clothes. The creek came with a rush.
Angelina, with only one mishap in the shape of
a fall of some feet into a muddy gap, groped her
way to the garden gate, and reached the house.
Edwin followed closely. They gazed at each
other in disillusionment. Never had either ap-
peared to less advantage. Angelina continued to
weep.
“What are you crying for?” said Edwin,
roughly, as he struggled out of the oil coat, and
viewed, with disgust, his mud-caked pyjamas.
‘ ‘ I brought them up. ”
“You’re a br-r-r -brick," said Angelina, chang-
ing her mind. “ Shall I make some coffee ?”
“ Here, let’s look at your hands,” said Edwin,
relenting. “ Many prickles ?” he asked, softly.
“ Edwin,” said Angelina between two very
moist sniffs, as she removed the sopping towel,
“You can swear beautifully.”
Edwin laughed and kissed her.
GIP.
“ Hamer” : The lack of bath is noticeable
on the West Coast of M.L. In one township,
where it was raining hard, writer and a friend,
being unable to get a bath at the hotel, took soap
and towels (and overcoats) to the creek. It was a
sequestered spot ; but the school children, having
somehow got wind of this exciting event in the
town’s history, assembled, and gazed, and made
remarks, and got wet. This annoyed some of the
elders of the town, and we were summoned for
cleanliness, or something. We remarked to the
Jay Pay that cleanliness was next to godliness;
and he inquired, “That’s in the Bible, isn’t it?”
and seemed impressed with our goodness. Then
he remarked that as we said we were leaving the
town, and were not coming back, he would accept a
promise that we would not offend by washing
again, and let us off with a caution.
“H.T.” writes from the hills
Out in the Tararu Ranges (Maoriland) an old man lives,
40 miles from anywhere, with a farm consisting of one
acre of flat and 200 acres on the nearly vertical side of the
mountain.
One day, through following the wrong creek, I came to
his whare, and, as it was getting late, I asked him for a
feed and a bunk.
As we sat smoking over a rata fire, he said, “ What is a
gohanna like ? ” I eyed a pile of about a thousand Bul-
letins and replied, “ I really don’t know. I’ve never been
in Australia. I believe it’s like a big lizard.”
He looked unsatisfied, and said, “I would like to
know what they are like, and The Bulletin never draws
one. I know a snake is like an eel, and a ’possum is a
grey rabbit what climbs trees, and an emu is a sorter
ostrich, but I can’t find out what a gohanna is like.
“The Bulletin is the only paper I’ve read for fifteen
years,” he went On ; “and if I knew what them things is
like I could enjoy it much better. I wish I knew what
those gohannas is like.”
When I set out next morning he came about five miles
down the creek with me to put me right, and as I left
him he said, “ I would like to meet a bloke what’s seen
one of those gohannas.”
It is plainly up to Norman Lindsay to draw one
of those gohannas.
“ The Prooshan ” : An animal’s instinct in
scenting danger is remarkable. The burnt child
dreads the fire, but animals have the sense in most
cases to dread danger without first experience of
it. Take the worn bat for example. If you find
your wire-netting bumped up and rooted under,
you know Womby has been through, and at once
bring a loaded gun and set it muzzlewards to the
hole with wire trigger attachment. But Womby
calls in the evening, notes the thin trigger wire
across the hole, and passes on a rod or so and
makes a fresh opening. Mount a gun there and
he shoves under elsewhere. The gun-trick comes
off at his burrow-mouth sometimes. The dog-
trap catches him, but is not strong enough to
hold.
“Larrikin ” tells of a weird colored brother :
He was an Indian snake-charmer up on the Fitzroy
(Q.). Lean as a whipping post he was, and bent almost
double, with a face brown and wrinkled, and the general
appearance of a mummy that had been overlooked.
Folks on the river said that he was well over a hundred,
and the oldest inhabitants of any veracity remembered
him as an aged man when they were children.
He never moved 100yds. away from his camp without a
praying carpet and a huge purple leather Asiatic valise
that was dropping to pieces with age. Latter was
crammed with glittering women’s garments, Asiatic
fal-lals, slippers, trousers and caps, all embroidered with
green beetles’ wings and gold thread tarnished almost
black. His clothes were heavy with roughly-cut jewels
sewn in them, and his old yellow turban was a regular
mine. To see him going along with his burden made one
think of an ant in the parcel delivery business.
The old man used to sit down and play upon a queer
Indian bagpipe to his pet reptiles, the snakes would
writhe gracefully all over him, hissing and darting out
their forked blue tongues engagingly, and the little alli-
gators that he had hatched out of eggs kept inside his
shirt would waddle about snapping at all in their way.
When they required a siesta, theyus'ed to crawl inside his
shirt and bask upon his heart.
He died recently in a struggling bush hospital. The
nurses still go pale when anyone mentions his name. For
half an hour after his arrival two wardsmen were chasing
and killing his snakes, which swarmed up on the walf-
plates, and wriggled up the bedposts in a fearsome
manner, while the old Indian cursed and jabbered with
his blazing eyes nearly starting out of his head.
“J.D.8.”: How does the Chinaman
reckon time in his own Flowery Land ? I was
recently shown a clock made for a mandarin in
Pekin. The face was marked with three concen-
tric circles. The outer had 24 divisions, the
middle 12, and the inner eight. There were two
hands. The shorter revolved once in two hours,
and the longer once in 24 hours. From these
particulars some genius may gather how the
Chinaman reckons time; I can’t. The inner
circle with its eight divisions is too much for me.
“F.H.R.” : There’s a lot of talk at times
about elms and other foreign trees in the Sydney
Mother Hubbard. Now, I’ve said it before, and
I’ll keep on at it, that the most beautiful orna-
mental trees in the world grow in our back country.
There are places on the Condobolin and Brewarrina
railways that can compare, when there is grass on
the ground, with anything I have ever seen in any
park. Near Compton Downs, on the Brewarrina
line, there is a large natural lake which is sur-
rounded by the prettiest currajongs I have ever
met. These are growing amongst large, gleaming
granite rocks of every quaint shape and pattern,
and the place is one of Nature’s gardens. On the
Condobolin line, compact sheoaks, wilgas, belars
and myalls can be seen from the train equal in
appearance to any ornamental tree growing in our
Botanical Gardens. They have the additional
grace of being evergreen, and, barring one class of
currajong, make no undesirable litter of falling
leaves and fruit as do the trees growing in so many
N. S. Wales towns. Take Orange, for instance.
In the fall all the unemployed of Australia could
not keep the streets clear of rotten leaves.
MR. PETER BOWLING, President of the
Miners' Federation.
As The Bulletin went to press on Tues-
day, news came through that the dispute in the
coal trade had been referred to arbitration, and
the men had agreed to return to work. It was
like hearing of three inches of rain over the Com-
monwealth.
From a man in the Far North :
.Japs still drift into Australia, in spite of Federal legis-
lation ; and Thursday Island is the centre at which the
swindle is worked. Stowaways on the Asia boats cable in
code from Hongkong as to the number of men wishing
to land at Thursday Island. Before the arrival of the
ship, friends or agents at Thursday Island obtain a
corresponding number of tickets from Thursday Island to
Townsville. On arrival of the eastern boat, each stow-
away is provided with one of these tickets, and exposes
himself to the light of day as a passenger from Thursday
Island to Townsville. Landing at Townsville, he takes
the earliest opportunity of returning to Thursday Island.
Jap women enter by ones and twos. The device adopted
in their case is for a dozen or so of Japanese “ ladies ” to
go on board “ to see the ship,” and for thirteen or more
to come ashore.
“L.F.”: Has The Bulletin ever noted,
in its survey of the Stinking Fish party, and the
many wonderful subdivisions thereof, that these
people rate all other “colonies” as cheaply as
they do Australia ? When I arrived in Australia,
I had had several years of experience in a country
more like this one than perhaps any other,
and I was seeking work of a land that varies less
with local conditions than most professions do.
But I found that the mere mention of experience
in another colony was sufficient to raise a snort of
contempt from the S.F.P. The only ray of hope
was when one anxious friend discovered that I had
not come here direct, but had made a trip to Eng-
land on the way. “ That’s all right, my boy,” he
gasped. “Never you mention t’other place any
more. Direct from the Old Country—valuable
English experience ; that’s your ticket.” And, so
far as concerns about two-thirds of Sydney and
the fossilised hamlets that lie in the backwash
behind it, observation convinces me that my
friend was right.
“S.” : Considering Teddy Roosevelt’s
great interest in Australia, our desire to propitiate
America, and our appreciation of our great
marsupial, I contend that the Commonwealth
should change its name to Roos’ Veldt.
“Hamer”: The suburbs provide some
circuses. One of them happens when the family
parrot escapes, and leads a frantic and appealing
family, who pour out piteous requests to it to
remember the sacredness of the home, on a chase
round the neighboring streets, what time the
dinner burns and the cat enjoys a free feed of
milk and fish in the kitchen. Then the head of
the family arrives on the scene, and hands
his bag and his paper to one of the family,
and says he will soon capture the bird. He
leads a procession, with the youngest girl by
his side pointing out the tree on which the
parrot has settled; his wife follows with the
baby, and the other children and the dog troop
after in disorder, but with firm confidence in their
leader. When they arrive at the tree, Mr.
Suburbs makes endearing remarks to the parrot
until he gets impatient. Then he tells his wife to
go home and get dinner ready, and sends Johnny
after her to get some corn, and Mabel round to
the house that owns the tree to explain things
and ask permission for Tommy to do some climb-
ing. Just as they disappear the parrot takes
another flight, the children scamper after it, the
dog barks, and the head of the family loses his
temper. He loses more temper later, and for an
hour or so an angry voice pierces the evening in
various directions, giving a dozen orders at once,
and calling everybody a fool but himself. Then
the chase subsides, and for another hour there are
sounds of pursuit after lost children, who are
wandering in neighboring streets in search of the
main chase. In the morning the parrot is dis-
covered roosting on its cage, and a man who seems
angry rushes for his train just too late to catch it.
The clog is the only thing concerned in the pro-
ceedings that seems to enjoy them.
“ L.F.” : Is there any clue to the mis-
creant who first landed in Australia with a
pot of laundry blue paint ? That deadly and
poisonous color fairly hits you in the eye wherever
you go. Not a suburban station but quivers with
it; not a business street or an empty hoarding
but offers its paralysing assault upon the optic
nerve. It is a taint that murders in a flash the
delicate blue of the Australian sky; and in the
fairest reaches of the harbor the deep-hued wave
flows shuddering in its shadow. Round Melbourne
way the pestilence is, if possible, even worse.
The Weighing.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Greek-goddy footman ushered the Soul
of Smithkins into the private judgment office.
Mechanically the chief clerk scrawled the
formal entry in one of the huge ledgers— ‘ ‘ Soul
of Samuel Smithkins, F 4; age, 49 ; married,
large family; dairy farmer, Western District,
Vic., Australia, Planet B.”
The Soul clung nervously to its Guardian Angel.
It wasn’t a bad sort of soul, as souls go. It was
large, but badly battered and scarred; and its
snowy purity had worn down to a dull, dirty grey.
The Devil stalked malignantly in, bearing a
swag containing the Soul’s sins.
The usher, who had been dusting the Scales of
Justice free from old particles of sin, now placed
them in readiness. With a thud the swag of sin
was dumped upon them.
The Angel turned pale at their enormity.
The Soul shuddered as he saw the old familiar
things—the unhallowed Sabbath, the child-slavery,
the sweated hireling, the casual blasphemy, the
murderously-abused Preservitas, the watered
milk ! It shut its eyes. It could bear no more.
Satan himself appeared no more evil at this
moment than Cow.
But the Guardian Angel whispered pityingly :
“ Much shall be forgiven thee, for thou hast
suffered much ” ; then placed upon the opposite
scales the dainty envelope that held the Soul’s
virtues. They weighed heavily indeed for their
puny size, but were powerless to lift the heavy
swag to its own level.
The Devil chuckled.
The Recording Angel then added to the scale
the Soul’s Circumstances of Life and Occasions of
Sin. Like a true counsel for defendant she
pointed out how the Soul had been handicapped
by its name and by hereditary Smithkin instincts.
Much of its sin had been custom in the land where
the Soul’s shell had lived. Many were due to
Bad Influence. And being a weak Smithkins
sort of soul, it couldn’t help being easily in-
fluenced. And it had done some good in a human
little way.
As she laid these arguments in the scale, it rose
slowly in the Soul’s favor till it needed but a
hair’s breadth to outweigh the sins. But her
arguments were exhausted. Pale and sad she
paused nonplussed.
The Devil grinned in triumph.
The Soul writhed in silent agony, striving to
articulate. At length it gurgled forth with a
gasping shriek —“The landlord! The share-
system ! ”
Hope lit the Angel’s face. “ Yes, yes,” she
pleaded eagerly —“ The Soul was a tenant-farmer
all its life ! ”
As she placed this fact on the scale, it sank
many inches, jerking the swag of sin high in the
air.
With a shriek of rage and disappointment, the
Devil seized the swag and fled into the blackness
beyond.
F.C.K.


7/6 BUYS THIS HAT.
They are Black All-Bur Hats in varying
shapes—some with narrow and others with
medium brims—the illustration gives a good
idea of their appearance. All sizes stocked.
If you want a reliable Hat at a moderate
price, these are the Hats you should buy.
Call in and see them, and judge for
yourself, or let us send you one, carriage
paid, under the condition that, if you are
not thoroughly satisfied, the hat may be
returned, and your money will be refunded.
DAVID JONES LTD.
SYDNEY.
Just at present there is quite an epidemic of
pneumonia, and appendicitis. Even where these com-
plaints do not cause death they make serious inroads on
the savings of years. The South British Insurance
Company, head office for N.S.W. 12 Bridge Street
Sydney, issues policies from £2 2s. to £8 Bs. per annum!
which entitle the holder to draw from 325. 6d. to £6 10s
weeks during temporary total disablement
(ifnS !!' 01 !,!!,’ pneumonia, blood poisoning, typhoid,
d seals’ ,! ilpht 1 1 ? eria > erysipelas, measles and many other
well as any accident under the sun. 'To the
above^pohcy 0 * 1 ther6 18 n 0 investment so profitable as the
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A sarcastic letter in Melbourne Age casti-
heSrJ dnll J, earers , of Cu P dresses as “feather-
headed dolls moved a number of serious corre-
spondents to wonder what Australian woman-
H. 18 comi ng to as though all feminine Aus-
tralia was on the lawn that Tuesday. One
citizen savagely inquired, “Are these to be the
mothers of our future Gracchi ? ” Heavens !
What have the Fat Landlords and their wives
done, or what do the imported actresses do, that
anyone should accuse them of contemplating the
production of a Cams Gracchus ?
* * * *
To the discussion on Cup dress extra-
vagance m Melb. Age, one of the little brown
men contributed an epistle lauding-the Jap lady’s
economy in that respect. Our own King Billv
wasevidently too busy pursuing a ’possum to join
in the discussion. Yet what a boast he could
have made about his Mary ! Economy in women’s
irocking doesn t necessarily mean high civilisation.
A PLAIN HINT.
MATRON : “ Good-bye , dear; and come over again
some time?"
LITTLE GIRL: “Thank you; and mother said I
could stay to tea if I was asked.”
Said that a notorious 4 4 fizgig ” has been
engaged tor the defence in a certain case in one
ot the Commonwealth cities. The father of the
prosecutrix having refused a big money offer
to keep the case from the police court, £lOOO
is now available for stopping a conviction The
wire-puller in this matter hopes, it is said, with
police assistance, to square the jury or provide
false evidence sufficient to ensure an acquittal of
tibe pnaoner. In which event he will get about
£5OO out of the stake, provided that his hungry
colleagues, the police, don’t demand an unfairly
oka* 6 CU k first payment he received was
£5O on account.
People who called in at Newcastle at the
tail end of last week and the beginning of this
one and expected to find the Coaly City pros-
trated with grief and anxiety, and nobody talking
nr?nU £ nyth , In S else but strike, got a shock. You
could hear far more about it in 10 minutes in a
Sydney street than you could in half-an-hour in
H ® ydney daily papers bumped their
black headings over two or three columns,
. spread a quarter-way down the
Tirfniori ° n n - t tu^ d tbe Newcastle Herald
n«!w d a 1 lt; had t 0 say about the matter
evp d r, to a <i V6ry modf f. heading that didn’t
, x ,™ e accommodation of a single column—
and that was pretty well characteristic of the
two cities. Later on, if the trouble
will nlfi tleC v. and Newcastle gets hungry, things
this week tbe b,]ik °f
baH 6 ba^ n 4 ™ ally 4e * 4 4bat anything unusual
ft £ pened - 1 The coalminer, who in slack
times often works as little as three days in a fort-
night, and kills time the other eleven, isn’t like
SnmArt?" T the Steady job ’ who realises that
something has gone wrong with the Universe if he
T) j. Sj- wor c ., for more than one consecutive day.
Lut Newcastle Harbor was another matter; after
a burst of tremendous activity it lay motionless.
* * * m
It is an old gibe at Newcastle that the miners
like an occasional “down-tools,” so that they can
nnrpL°hio . exc ursmn ; and some probably
fl ,? ured i 4 out that half the
2" if d fl athead or bream for dinner last Sun-
H ay - fV At one favorite fishing-ground the previous
thJv Am -T ere a ? m f iy as 200 anglers; and
Trades Sll for . .nothing. The local
irades Hall looks on this approvingly: the
onger the men can fill the pot that way the
anCl 14 kee PsJ them out of the city and gives
the officers a freer hand while they are struggling
thp P Yp h Up f 1 * 3 4roub l?- In this respect, anvway,
hif *' e , wca -‘’ t e miner has points to the good over
fen fT ar n br u ther of the bush ‘ Mostly ail that
W J{ the ,® ush can catch during strike-time is
has «™ llPkln ’ b u 4 even , a Wlld Pumpkin-patch
has seen many a shearers strike camp a good way
through a strenuous fight. 1 B y
* * * *
Evidence for the defence in a Melb. court,
fui 6r i day : * he ain’t sober he’s as good
a husband as ever breathed, your Worship 1 ’’
nc<wv b ? se Ballarat churchmen who won
£ 00 apiece in Tatt.’s, one, who was an Anglican
f dd f’ resigned precipitately; the other, a Wes-
|, y , miday-school teacher, is sticking to oof
and office. Meanwhile the question, “Can the
Winner of Six Thousand be a Christian?” is
being vehemently discussed in Ballarat. Some
nail-holy disputants equivocate, and argue that
Twfe ng k S a i Sln ’ V ufc w inning is excusable,
wfem l . abr 9ad something like an opinion that
wplltpV 8 Wl f 404 ™? 4 1? Providence, it is just as
weil to have five bob in Tatt.’s at the same time,
lor although risking the five shillings is wrong,
when it pulls off a winner the five bob becomes in
a measure a crown of glory. If winning sweeps
is a sin, The Bulletin hopes it’s getting due
credit from the Recording Angel for its amazing
abstinence from that iniquity.
* * * *
I cannot too impressively warn the
I< r>’ Chief Justice Forbes, on
the Bench of Sydney Criminal Court
over 80 years ago, “against the un-
necessary or indiscriminate use of fire-
arms. It is murder to shoot dead a
man who can be arrested.” The ease
T ma^ e the first of Australia’s
Chief-Justices use this strong language
was that of a prisoner who attacked a
constable in the George-street lockup,
considerably smashing the officer, and
getting outside. Evidence showed that
it was possible for the constable to re-
arrest, but instead he shot and killed.
Ihe Coroner’s jury found it murder:
but the jury acquitted, and the Judge’s
remarks followed. The use of the re-
volver by the police nowadays is more
free and frequent than in those far-
back times, and that casualties are not
more common is mostly owing to bad
shooting. But Justice Forbes’ words
should be framed and hung on the
wall of every police-station in Aus-
tralia. It is murder to shoot a man
whom it is possible to arrest, unless
indeed he has been outlawed.
* * *
One choice exhibit, at the
Women’s Show in Melbourne, attracts
notice because it is so suggestive of
the ways of Sassietv. It is a neatly bound
and prettily embroidered and embossed book
°f poems; and the ticket informs a paralysed
public The ornamentation and binding were
done by an Irish lady, from whom it was pur-
chased by the Countess of Dudley and presented
to Mrs. Earle, of Cobham, Surrey, sister of
Dowager Lady Loch.” The name of the woman
who did the work wasn’t worth mentioning, as no
Dowager Lady perched in her family tree.
* * ■*
“ Stony ” : The nine-o’-dock moths of the
city streets have their servants and sycophants
too, as have all money-makers. It must come as
something of a shock to “ respectable ” women
when they enter a certain drapery shop in Mel-
bourne, to find that the frail one is served first
is rushed with the rapid chair and the engaging
manner, and a bunch of attendants told off to find
out what madam will take. It’s a shop with an
informed man-manager; and there’s a horrible
name for that kind of man.
Mr. Pope Cooper, Queensland’s ex-Crown
Prosecutor C.J., is having sore trouble with
his judgments. His now-famous legal opinion
as to his own non-liability to pay income-
tax was pronounced so unsound the other day
as to border upon decomposition, and that by
nine other Judges, comprising one District Court
Judge, three of the Full Court, and five of the
High Court. In a recent Full Court appeal
(Doherty v. Walsh) Mr. Real, in giving a contrary
judgment to Mr. Cooper, said that “he (Real
would like to agree with his Chief, if he could do so
without disrespect to his own intelligence.”
Subsequent appeal to the High Court (October)
cast further aspersions on Mr. Cooper’s law, by that
Court’s unanimous agreement with Mr. Real. In
another appeal at the same sittings—a tram-car
case (Kelly v. Wigzell)—the High Court again
decisively up-ended Mr. Cooper.
THE HIGHEST CLASS.
FIRST ELDER (darkly): “Is Ber-ruther Bunthunder a good man think you, Ber-ruther? ”
SECOND ELDER (joyfully): "Oh, Ber-ruther, he is classed Al at Judkins!"
There is not in all Australia a more soul-
less and penurious skinflint than the Melbourne
Tramway Co. Its miserliness is manifested in
its treatment of the large army of odd hands,
known as “ battlers” —men who are called upon at
all hours to take up chance work, to put in an
hour, a day, or a night, whenever there’s a little
extra pressure, or when a regular employee goes
under from the tram man’s special banes—in-
fluenza and varicose veins. These “battlers” form
a very considerable proportion of the company’s
army of workers ; they are its special re-
serves, and are despoiled shamefully. When
generously admitted to the rank of a “battler ”
the recruit is given three weeks’ work, for which
he does not get a copper. The indulgent co. tells
him he is learning the game, but, all the same he
is- dome the co.’s work, and earning the share-
holders greasy dividends, cleaning dummies and
carriages, cleaning and filling lamps, etc. The
innocent moiler usually believes that when he has
served this term of tutelage he is right for a
regular grip. That’s his funny little blunder,
it the co. isn t pleased with the work he
has done for nothing, it outs him alto-
gether ; if satisfied, it graciously accepts him into
its large army of hangers-on. Often three or four
hours are wasted by the “ battler ” waiting round
for two hours’ work, as the graft may be doled out
m scraps, by the hour, or even the half-hour
Never in any circumstances does the company pav
one cent more than has been worked for, no matter
how many hours the hapless super may have
wasted at the nod and beck of the boss, but it will
clip off quarter hours with bowelless precision
Men are kept stringing on as contingency hands
for months, perhaps a year or more. It is the
M. 1. and (J. Go. s game to string them, for with
the help of the “ battlers ” the staff can be kept
right down to the minimum. The average worker’s
eagerness for a steady job is deliberately exploited
m the Melbourne Tram Co.’s system of “ battlers ”
and it is about time the local Labor party devel-
oped an interest in the matter.
London tailors have met, and formulated
an awful scheme, which will doubtless, like the
rabbit, also invade Australia. Briefly, it is a sort
of Bertillon system whereby each individual
“nark,” “bilk,” or habitual debt-contractor
is to be identified, and refused clothing for
all time. No one man is like another, it seems, in
the length of his leg seam, and this measurement
is affected neither by increasing age nor weight.
In future, tailors propose
to supply each other with
the leg-seam figures of all
suspects, and the
Tailors’ Association
expects that mem-
bers will thereby
save about 75
per cent, of
bad debts.
B. Smith said recently, at the Mikado’s
birthday celebrations, that the Japanese possessed
“ all the old-fashioned British virtues.” Not even
so essentially British a name as B. Smith, how-
ever, can justify a man in uttering obvious
slanders on the British stock. If B. Smith will
read the earliest available authors on those sub-
jects (authors by no means biassed in favor of the
early British tribes, but, on the contrary, generally
at war with them), he will discover that continence
and reverence for women were admittedly among
their leading traits. The same testimony is borne
by the same unbiassed critics, of the Saxon
peoples before they came to Britain. But it’s a
tar cry from Boadicea to the State-run Yoshiwara
A BAB SPEC.
" Yer see, I reckoned on it bein' wet, and so, sez
I. ‘ Dyed Garments is sure to run well in the
rain' And whop went me five bob."
Ex-Constable Crowe’s latest circular,
which has had a limited circulation in Melbourne,
and is still travelling around, contains some more
challenges for libel prosecutions. Crowe’s persist-
ence in standing forward to be legally shot at
makes a stronger impression on reasoning minds
than the counter-allegations against Crowe’s
character. To say that the publisher of red-hot
libels is notoriously untruthful, is to say that he
could be easily convicted, and ought not to go un-
punished. Until action is taken by the people
whom Crowe publicly vilifies, their private vili-
fications of him will remain open to serious
question. A man doesn’t prove his innocence by
calling his traducer a liar.
THE POLICEMAN’S LOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
repelTed’thP Melb ° urne Police Court said that she
she had been 1 th r defe ' ldan t(a constable), as
husbands. tbat P obcemen do not make good
Gone are the days when John was King ;
When every kitchen maid,
With heart aflame, the back bell’s ring—
The policeman’s call—obeyed.
When all the kitchens on our beat
Flew open at our sign ;
While cooks brought forth the bread and meat,
And also beer and wine.
Brought out the bread and meat, I said,
With pies and tarts galore,
The while the Are glowed bright and red—
What could a John want more ?
Alas, alack, the new John sighs,
The nights are sad and drear ;
Gone are the tarts ; gone are the pies’;
Gone is the supper beer.
Where are the cooks we used to meet?
Surety some still are true ?
Where are the hearts that used to beat
Only for us in blue ?
VIO.
FRANK RADCLYFFE.
DUST TO DUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a day in Melbourne town,
The dust blew up, the dust fell down.
The cit the devil’s aid invoked,
But in his mouth his prayer was choked.
The heavy, devastating cloud
Oppressed the poor, abased the proud,
And adepts high at eating dirt.
They had a desert for dessert.
“Oh, what a mixing there will be,”
A grinning cynic said to me,
“ If north winds blow in such a way
Upon the Resurrection Day ! ”
vie.
S.S.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism,
Neurasthenia,
Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Ansenna, Insomnia, etc
beware
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “Electrical” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity
curative medium. ■ x>
111-
or any
( No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
Kheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
Rings vvi'ite >hlet a " d free particulars for fche use of these
the RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia ), 45-47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
While it is often impossible to prevent an
accident, it is never impossible to be prepared. It
b f e n O v! lC , one , a . P urse to invest Is. (id. in a
bottle of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm, and then you
are prepared for any accident.*
T»e [»jie Hand
ABOUT A CHRISTMAS NO.?
What would be the best form of a Christmas
Number? That problem puzzled The Lone
Hand for some days. Should there be attempted
a special issue, with special Christmas stories,
Christmas verse and illustrations ? That way dull-
ness seemed to lie. The specially-written-to-order
yarn is rarely as good as the spontaneously-created
one. If a man has a good story to tell, a good
article to write, it usually comes to the office
without other than the general invitation to all
good copy.” To ask anyone to write a particu-
lar sort of story or article is to invite him (or her)
to “ pump up ” inspiration ; and inspiration
doesn’t pump well.
To make the December number of The Lone
Hand an especially good one was the final de-
cision notable for good pictures, good stories,
good verse, good articles. The November number
was hailed by over 150 Australian papers as the
best magazine overproduced in Australia,” and
easily comparable with the best foreign maga-
zines. But wait till they see the December num-
ber !
The cover is, in the first place, notable—a
charming water-color by B. E. Minns. The
frontispiece will be an exact reproduction of
Bernard Halls “Sleep.” This lovely picture—
exhibited in Sydney this year, and priced at 300
guineas— suggests the best work of Alma Tadema.
It i 3 a rich bit of decoration, and The Lone Hand
reproduction does it full justice.
Norman Lindsay contributes a second instal
ment of “Great Stories ” —with “ Helen of Troy.”
These six full-page illustrations represent quite
the best work this talented artist has turned out
to date.
The World’s Beauty Quest ” has aroused to
soft emulation the womenfolk of the Common-
wealth and Maoriland. A selection from the
beautiful pictures now pouring into the office is
published in the December Lone Hand.
“The Big Five,” a serial story by Ambrose
Pratt, begins publication in December. It is a
stirring, vigorous, up-to-date yarn of romance and
adventure in the Northern Territory.
Edward Dyson’s humorous “Battlers and a
Bear” (illustrated by Hop), Alf Vincent’s
Vagabonding in Asia,” and Norman Lindsay’s
Ihe Intruder supply the main humorous
features. Half-a-dozen stirring short stories, a
good selection of literary and other articles, some
charming verse, of which the gem is Roderic
Quinn’s “ The Sea Seekers ” (with illustrations by
Mahony), help to make up the December Lone
Hand.
It won t be a happy month for you if you miss
it.
214 G-eorge Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A REAL BOX
CALF BOOT..
16/6
It’s really a small price to pay for genuine Box Calf
Boots, so well-made as these are, but it will buy a boot of
great merit at Peapes.
You cannot buy a boot like this elsewhere at any price
for the simple reason that they are made expressly to our order
we specified the leather and the workmanship throughout, and
we examine every boot to see that our orders have been carried
out in detail.
Being genuine Box Calf,, they are soft and pliable, there-
fore comfortable. They give wonderful wear, and are altogether
the best boots ever offered at the price.
ALL SIZES 16/6 A PAIR, POSTAGE 9d. EXTRA.
ORDER FORM.
Please send
ia ]
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
me a pair of Boots as above. My size
enclose ..for 17/3.
Name
Address
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ HEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Last week Bill Lyne made a gallant
attempt to save the lives of a lot of little Aus-
tralians by imposing a prohibitive duty on
flannelette. Unfortunately Batchelor, M.P., had
remarked to his wife that it was beastly danger-
ous stuff, and that lady had told the legislator he
didn t know what he was talking about, and
Batchelor took his wife’s view as ascertained
truth. It’s a pity for Australia that Mrs.
Batchelor was not better informed. Guided by
the remarks of Mrs. Batchelor, the duty was
fixed at 10 per cent. only. But there is a mass of
indisputable evidence that flannelette is so dan-
gerous that it is a morally criminal thing to dress
young children in it. A few examples of acci-
dents that have happened to children wearing
flannelette: A child playing on the side path
suddenly ran against a lighted match a smoker
threw towards the ground. Her flannelette frock
burst into flame, and before the man could remove
Ins coat and smother the flame the child was mor-
tally in j ured. A woman wearing a flannelette under-
skirt stepped over a match to get out of a tram-
car, and the underskirt simply exploded, burning
her so that she died. Another woman, wearing a
flannelette wrapper, was heating milk on a spirit
lamp for a child s bottle, A sudden gust of wind
blew the flame against her. wrapper. She was
burned to death before assistance arrived. At
North Sydney a woman, wearing a blouse of some
fancy-patterned flannelette, lit the gas, and
dropped the match, which fell against her sleeve,
with the result that she lost the use of her arm,
and came perilously near to losing her life. These
are but. a few cases, all happening in Sydney
within the last few years.
* * « *
Truly, the solicitors in a looming Melbourne
divorcecase have a fineeye for effect. The bomb was
exploded at the alleged tertium quid while he was
waiting for the result of a big election. The other
side, not to be beaten for melodramatic situation,
subpoenaed the petitioner’s aesthetic friend at a
dance. She fainted, and the first person to
come to her assistance was the husband himself.
Could Bland Holt desire more ?
THE HEIGHT OF POLITENESS.
“ You know, Jess, I always think Percy is such
a nice boy; he raises his hat to a girl even
if he is only speaking to her on the telephone .”
The Yic. Railway workshops at Newport
have just turned out the first of ten huge locomo-
tives for the Melbourne to Albury express.
Hitherto the heavy loads and stiff gradients have
necessitated two engines, but the new-comer will
do the work of the two, on a smaller consumption
or coal, and with two men instead of four. The
machine, which is 01ft. long, and weighs 108 tons
could do a shade over 60 miles an hour, if the
Oent otate tracks would allow of that speed.
In Victorian banks any receiving teller
who takes in a bad coin or a note that is a forgery
or the product of a decayed institution has to
make it good out of his own pocket. In other
businesses the proprietors have to run the risks of
the game, but the average bank clerk is a tame and
submissive employee, who is expected to knuckle
down to any imposition. Naturally, bad notes
and spurious coins are frequent callers at banks,
and tellers are often taken down where the bad
’un is the product of a clever craftsman. This is
generally known, but it is not generally known
that the cronk sovereign or dickie quid is not
taken over by the bank and destroyed, but in
most cases becomes the property of the young
man who had to set it right. If he likes to put
the forgery about again it’s his own affair.
* * * *
Canoodlers on a certain seat in Albert
Park (Melbourne) have incurred the animosity of
a gentleman, aged 88, and his wife (age not
stated), and a request to remove the seat
before the hot weather sets in has been
made to the South Melbourne Council.
The request opened : “My husband, being
in his 88th year, has deputed me, his wife,
to write and beg you to take away the
seat.” The writer went on to say that
the objection to the seat was that at night
it was frequently occupied by couples who
behaved improperly, and concluded with
the remark, “I write as the warm season
is approaching so that we may, after a
warm day, sit in our verandah or balcony
and get a little fresh air, which at present
is quite impossible.” There was a long, in-
definite debate on the complaint. It did
not occur to any of the councillors to sug-
gest that the best way out of the difficulty
was for the gentleman, aged 88, and his
wife to occupy the seat themselves on hot
nights.
* * * *
A deaf and dumb man was behind
the bars at Sydney Criminal Court the
other day, and the jury settled itself down
for a wearisome, halting trial. Every-
thing had to be “interpreted” to the
accused, and when they remembered how
long it takes the average casual person
to spell out words in deaf-and-dumb
signs on his hands, even the court attend-
ants groaned. But they didn’t know the pro-
gress that has been made in deaf-and-dumb
talk. Under the circumstances, the oral or lip
method (in the development of which the
schools claim that most advance has been
made of late years) was ouc of the question;
but by a combination of hand-spelling and the
deaf-mute’s natural language of mimicry, reduced
to fixed rules, the interpreter was easily able to
keep pace with the average talkers at the counsel’s
table and in the box.
* * * «
A puzzled J.P. at Stirling West (S.A.) has
had to wrestle with the problem whether “ How’s
she rocking?” as a salutation, is Insulting
Behavior. The local constable said that, used to
h ' m > m the presence of a lady, it was. The
offender said it meant nothing, and intended
nothing, and was, in fact, about the only thing
you could _say when meeting a friend, according to
Stirling West etiquette ; and the accidental pre-
sence of the lady had no bearing on the case.
Iwenty-five shillings, or seven days; but, as the
u i wenfc out way to mention “ What ho !
i e dumps’’ as another salutation equally shocking
the Supreme Court of S.A. is going to have the
task of settling just what it is safe to say when
passing a policeman. In Paris, according to a
charming Anatole Prance sketch in The Lone
Hand, “ Down with the cows ! ” is the one thing
you musn t say in a policeman’s presence.
There is ample proof that Alfred Boldner
is alive and well in Melbourne, and yet a life
insurance company had paid £2OO to Alfred’s
widow on the strength of strong proof that Alf
was drowned or devoured by sharks off Red
Bluff. Boldner was swimming with friends, his
clothes were on the shore, but he was not seen to
return from the waves. For two years he was
missing, but he turned up during the Spring
racing, and his supposed widow has handed back
the £2OO insurance, although Alf is still lying
low. The resurrection of Boldner is accepted
as a demonstration of the tremendous hold
Melbourne Cup has on Australians, since when
a man thinks he knows a sure thing he can’t
remain dead, even though it may be to his
advantage to figure as legally deceased. But to
our mind the case is most remarkable as an
astonishing instance of the restoration of the
apparently drowned.
* * # •*
The Limerick competitions now raging in
London, and imitated by some of the Sydney
papers, are a comical reflection on the Gambling
Suppression Act. In Limerick gambles all
“starters” pay 6d. and contribute a line of
doggerel. The gross proceeds of the sweep are
divided into prizes. The newspapers playing the
game in Sydney dodge Wade’s Act by solemnly
declaring that the prizes go to the most literary
efforts, and that therefore it is a struggle of brains.
Well, if some of the winning efforts are the
very best sent in to certain of the competi-
tions, the literary and artistic sense of this
community is at the very lowest ebb.
But the vast majority of the Limerickers believe
that luck of some description is the main factor
winch determines the results. Hence their popu-
larity. Perhaps the editors, whose “decisions
are final,” carefully weigh the hundreds of
thousands of Limericks, one against the other, but
it’s hardly likely.
* * * *
Time somebody gave attention to the con-
dition of theN.S.W. private schools. Bogusdegrees
and titles, fraudulent prospectuses, quack-like
advertising, and touting for pupils are rife. Many
elf-styled schoolmasters are impudent adven-
turers, finding easy victims in snob parents, who
think a private college is more “classy” than
the State school. In the whole miserable trans-
action, education is the last thing thought of.
The man who displays the greatest effrontery,
and is willing to charge the least, bags the boy.
For silly and pretentious parents one is not too
sorry. But it is the young who suffer, and
through them the country. The whole system of
secondary education should be taken in hand and
regulated by the Government.
How is this for good, all-round begetful-
ness ? Twenty years ago a photo was taken of 47
young Australians, who were being charged with
knowledge at Byramul (NtS.W.) public school,
io-day, by their own united efforts, and a little
assistance from outside, they represent 168—a nett
gam of 121. This notwithstanding three deaths
and five who have not faced the altar.
* * * *
First effective prosecution under the re-
cently passed M.L. Tohunga Suppression Act
occurred t’other day. Case was heard at Auckland
Magistrates’ Court, the victim being one Deer
Singh, who for masquerading as a tohunga on
divers occasions was fined £4O and awarded a
month’s strenuous toil in quod. Deer’s nationality
was against him. It is practically impossible to
get a conviction against one of the home-born
practitioners. But when Asia was gripped by the
law whole battalions of disgusted browns
testified that this particular tohunga was a fraud
and a delusion, and entire regiments of dusky
persons swore that he was the biggest thief out of
gaol.
* * * *
Grand total of £BOO was paid in opium
fines by Cairns district Chinese during the past
six months—which gives some idea of the opium
traffic in N. Queensland generally.
Thirteen again ! —just 13 corpses on the
slabs at the Melbourne morgue, awaiting inquests
the day after Cup Day. But, alas for Judkins]
not one of them had the slightest apparent con-
nection with the “racing saturnalia.”
THE PLAINT OF THE PIG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pig market is being discussed as a suitable site for
the proposed new Melbourne Hospital.
Here drafted into pens at last,
Tired, thirsty, hungry, shaken,
We’ve come, the suckers and the stores,
Potential pork and bacon.
We’ve heard ourselves knocked down for cash
To porky Gentile buyers,
Been driven forth, a sacrifice
To Pan, and all his fryers.
We later pigs have trod the road
Of dust to our destruction,
Resigned, for here our parents came,
And made (we’re told) no ruction.
Our race is used, in short, to come,
And in these pens to tarry
Before the knife ... we know the place
By sense hereditary.
They threaten now to make the bourne
That sends us on for curing,
A refuge for the human sick,
Hospitably alluring.
But them they mean to cure alive,
Whate’er disease has caught ’em ;
With us, alas, that act’s delayed,
And only done post mortem.
So, if Bent pleases, from new pens
We’ll reach the butchers’ slashers,
And come no more to this dear spot—
Except as breakfast rashers.
VIC.
M.E.F.
SUREING
CIRLS
By W M. WHITNEY
DAINTj) and slindof —
jxTsensuous limb
"The surfing girls parade
put in the comb of feathery foam
ClO-Joy and pride arrayed,
in a swirled delighi
'Of sunand strength and sea,
Better to face long working daysj
Of desk and drudgery. \
to southerly gale
Fifty) white ly on the verge,
ManyFa girl in the galloping swirl
JyTn red and navy serge,
----Never a cry when danger’s nigh,
For tawny men are near,
Each by the side of Spartan bride,
A watchful cavalier.
OutSsrT'thesands bewildering bands
Of surfinggkjs ensnare,
eyedin critical guise
m Bid vagrant soulk beware ;
of Eveythey undeceive
The prudishTt€art that sneers, dT
J[hey_-arFe"the girls censorious churls '
Call social mutineers I


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English
Engines,
Engines,
Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
etc., etc. ,
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope,
everything. A. Ransome
Steel Rails, 1
Hayward s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
i Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers,
amway Material, Locomotives, Gas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
In the N.S.W. Assembly, the other night,
Treasiirer Wadddl repeated the exaggeration that “two-
thirds of the net proceeds of the sale of lands had been
transferred to the Public Works Fund.” Now, under
Alienations,” the Auditor-General shows that, for last
year, £1,029,439 was received, and the amount, trans-
ferred to the Works Fund was £368,051 (apart from the
special grant out of the alleged surplus). Therefore, of
the total set out by the Auditor-General under the head-
ing Alienations,” barely one-third, instead of two-thirds
was transferred to the Works Fund. First of all, under
Garruthers’ tricky system, interest on unpaid balances is
excised. That interest (2£ per cent.) was, however, taken
into account when the upset price of C.P. land was fixed
at £1 per acre—£l per acre for land which in many cases
has since been sold for £5. The interest is therefore part
of the purchase money. Still Carruthers, when he was
perfecting his Works Fund trick, excised it for a start.
Then out of the balance the Treasurer takes 20 per cent •
so between those two and any other possible little deduc-
tions, instead of two-thirds, only one-third of the land
sales money goes into the fund. And as the fund is used
for renewals ” and works of that sort, the thing which
even the one-third goes into is a fraud, because renewals,
as every business man knows, ought to be provided out
of revenue ; and the concern that doesn’t provide them
out of revenue must so smash sooner or later.
• * * *
Accountant David Fell came into the N.S.W.
Budget debate with his customary valuable analysis".
His chief point was that each department—the Bail-
ways, Water and Sewerage Board, and Harbor Trust-
should be charged with its own share of the public debt
and each such department’s surplus earnings, after pay-
ing interest on its own debt, should go to reduce that
debt, or be applied to reduce the department’s charges
The accounts were at present, he said, “fuddled up”
manipulation was therefore made easy, and consequently
IS. S. Wales’ 3 per cent, stocks were quoted at 85, while
the similar stocks of Canada were worth 97. But it is
precisely because the present “ fuddlement ” lends itself
to manipulation that tricky political leaders persist in it.
Further, if the debt were allocated in this way, the whole
sinful yarn about Cohen’s money being represented by
“permanent and reproductive undertakings” would
explode with a shocking smell. According to the most
generous division, the business undertakings accounted
for only £65,303,493 of the debt on June 30 fast; another
£3,430,647 is in works taken over by the Commonwealth •
and that leaves £14,188,222 of Cohen’s money repre-
sented by roads and bridges, tanks and culverts, public
buildings and sites, and other things that don’t return
twopence a year ; and when a N.S.W. Treasurer, setting
out to rope in another million or two, produced the old
frayed gag regarding all the borrowed money bein<>- iri
permanent and reproductive works, those 14 millions
odd would rise up and laugh scornfully. To put the
commercial undertakings of the State on a business basis
the system advocated by David Fell is indispensable ; but
until N. S. Wales gets a Treasurer pledged to no-borrow-
mg there is mighty little chance of the system being
adopted, simplj r because the sort of Treasurer who wants
to lean against Cohen won’t be prepared to expose his
hand, and show that for years past the State has been
playing with a crooked card.
* * * *
An advt. in the M.L. Postal Guide a few
months ago announced—“ Deposits (unrestricted in
amount) are now being received under the N.Z. Consols
Act, 1894. Interest, 3£ per cent.” Now the ML
“Official Year Book, 1895,” describing the Act of 1894*
said—“ The purpose of the Act is, by providing for an
inscription of such Consols, to give further facilities for
the safe investment of savings. Practically, it establishes
another branch of the Government Savings Bank.
The Treasurer is authorised to receive, by way of deposits
from persons in the colony, sums of money up to £5OO 000
[in the aggregate, presumably]; but the amount deposited
in any one year must not be more than £250,000.” Yet
it is this year officially announced that under the
authority of an Act thus officially described, “deposits
(unrestricted in amount) are now being received.” Who
removed the restriction ? And, if it has been removed
in whose interest has it been done ? Maoriland needs to
watch very closely its growing back-stairs liability—
the money that isn’t borrowed straight out but
is obtained furtively through the post-office, etc.
The latest figures available only run to December 31,
1905 ; yet on that date, of £8,662,023 in the post-office
savings banks, £8,457,532 was “invested in Government
or local-bodies securities ” (which is the nice way of say-
ing that the Government and local bodies have borrowed
97 per cent, of all the savings bank deposits). Now the
Postal Guide has called for unrestricted deposits
under the authority of an Act which, according to the
Government’s official year-book, very plainly restricts
them to half-a-million. It is up to somebody to explain
things.
* * * *
The Maoriland Public Trust Office, which
looks after the Dominion’s inadequate sinking fund, the
Police Provident Fund, the Coal Miners’ Relief Fund, and
other public trust accounts, and also acts as trustee
for private estates :
Paid in aid of Total
Profit. State’s Revenue. Reserves.
1901 £22,915
1902 .. £10,955 33 870
1903 .. 7,363 41,233
1904 .. 10,085 61 318
1905 .. 14,491 £20,000 45,809
1906 .. 12,706 58,515
1907 .. 12,558 7i’073
Of these reserves £23,521 consists of an assurance fund
and £47,552 is undivided balance. The income for the
year, apart from interest earned by the assurance fund
amounted to £33,556 ; and of this total £15,688 was
derived from “ interest, being surplus from investments.”
This item indicates the principal difference between this
public Trust office and the ordinary private trustee co.
If the Public Trustee is appointed trustee, and the in-
vestment of the interest-bearing funds is left to his dis-
cretion, the State guarantees both capital and interest,
which is about the largest benefit that could possibly be
conferred upon beneficiaries under a will. Apart from the
security of the principal, the fact that there is no delay
in making investments is a big advantage. The interest,
however, is only fixed from time to time ; so, though a
testator knows that what he leaves will be secured for
his dependents, so far as the State can secure it, he
doesn’t know what income they will have. It would be
possible, no doubt, to guarantee that, too, but only by
building up a large assurance fund ; in fact, it is work
rather for an underwriting office than for a Trust office.
Late in 1905 the interest payable under this provision
was raised from 4 per cent, to 4£ per cent, for sums under
£3OOO, and from 3f per cent, to 4 per cent, on all larger
sums. The item, “interest, being surplus from invest-
ments,” is the amount actually earned in excess of the
amount paid to the credit of estates ; in other words, it
is really the amount paid by estates for the valuable
guarantee which they get.
The progress of the office is further shown
hereunder
Under Total
Private Trusts. Trust Funds.
1901 .. .. £758,323 £1,672,304
1902 .. .. 807,624 1,782.951
1903 .. .. 876,049 1,936,073
1904 .. .. 976,768 1,660,716
1905 .. .. 1,098,899 1,896,224
1906 .. .. 1,242,274 1,840,203
1907 .. .. 1,471,905 2,081,270
These private trusts are independent of intestate estates
and the estates of mental patients and of convicts, all of
which come automatically into the control of the Public
Trust Office. The figures refer, moreover, to only the
realised portion of the estates ; the unrealised portion is
not valued. The invested funds (£2,117,924, including the
office’s own reserves) are mainly in mortgages, which
.account for £1,883,533 of the total. When it was pro-
posed that the State should guarantee interest, the people
who knew all about it said that the Trust Office was
going to be merely another agency for raising loans for
the Government by back-stair methods ; but the figures
knock that criticism out in the first round.
* * * *
The Mt. Lyell Mining and Railway Co.,
from the amalgamation with the North Lyell
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
He
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil mm
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12£p.c. =£78,780 163!546
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12£ „ „ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12| „ „ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 „ „ 126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 „ „ 157,500 10,071 668,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32£ „ „ 205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 „ ~ 220,551 11,740 553,590
A mining co.’s reserves are not, however, ordinary re-
serves, just as a mining co.’s profits are not ordinary
profits. A mining co.’s so-called' profits are made by eat-
ing up the mine, so to a greater or less extent profits
include a proportion of capital. In this case, however,
though the mine still stands in the books at cost
price, in spite of the great quantities of ore taken out of
it, there are very substantial liquid assets, estimated at
£492,657, in excess of liabilities. The assets themselves
total £631,224 ; but of that amount £276,952 is repre-
sented by copper not realised, and in a violently fluc-
tuating market it is obviously impossible to fix the value
absolutely. The copper stocks on hand at the close of
the half-year totalled 1072 tons more than they did six
months previously. So, as these stocks were merely
roughly valued, even the stated profit is based largely
on an estimate too.
Mt. Lyell’s metal production (converter returns)
for the past few half-years :
Copper. Silver. Gold.
Sept., 1905 .. 4253 tons 365,440 oz. 12 425 oz
Mar., 1906 .. 4565 „ 374,762 „ 12,342
Sept., 1906 .. 4444 ~ 329,183 ~ 10,746,,
Mar., 1907 .. 3796 „ 355,372 ~ 10 115
Sept., 1907 .. 4090 „ 344,715 ~ 9,334 ”
The average price realised for copper sold was £96 15s. 6d.
as against £lO6 9s. 3d. in the previous term, and £B5 9s.
4d. in the half-year before that. Between the last and
the previous half-year there was thus a difference of only
£9 13s. 9d. per ton ; and that would not account for any-
thing like all the fall in profits. It is obvious from this
that the large copper stocks in hand have been valued at
a very much lower price than £96 15s. 6d.— probably
lower than £6O. And as the profits are largely
based on those unknown figures, the figures are
not of very much value. It is, for instance, impos-
sible to compute from them what the actual cost of pro-
ducing copper is. (It has since been stated that the
directors have cabled to London announcing that the
stocks in hand were actually valued at £5O per ton, and
that sales have since been made at an average of £6l 55.)
There is, however, another way of estimating costs. The
working account shows expenses amounting to £201,883,
and there are also administration and prospecting ex-
penses (though some of the latter are not to be rightly
charged against Mt. Lyell copper). The total outlay was
£227,836. The gold and silver produced were worth, sav
£78,000 ; that would leave £149,836 of costs to be met by
4090 tons of copper, or at the rate of £36 12s. 6d. per ton.
Probably that is approximately the cost of producin'--
blister copper. By-products (superphosphates, etc.) would
reduce this cost a trifle, no doubt. Six months ago
when silver was worth more (that is to say, when
that metal paid more of the costs), it was calculated
working back from profits then disclosed, that copper
cost £3llBs. 7d. per ton to produce and get to market.
On the figures given just now it would appear
that costs of producing copper have gone up during
the half-year. Two causes are responsible—a slight
reduction in metal contents of ore ; an increase in costs
per ton. The latter have moved this way :
Mar., Mar., Sept., Mar., Sept.,
1905. 1906. 1906. 1907. 1907.
Mining, etc. .. 4/11-91 5/3-82 6/0-87 5/10-12 5/10-69
Smelting .. 6/5T3 6/9‘98 8/2-36 7/5-32 8/4-19
Converting .. 1/7-35 1/5-25 1/7-22 1/1-53 1/2-32
Totals .. 13/0-39 13/7-05 15/10-45 14/4-97 15/5-20
The smelting costs particularly stand up as proud
feathers in the caps of General-manager Sticht and the
men who have been associated with him. When Aus-
tralia started its furnaces, £2 per ton was a figure that
smelters aimed at. But soon they began to make their own
coke, and to find things out for themselves, and to make
economies ; and there is a fine Protectionist argument in
the Bs. 4d. per ton which the Mt. Lyell co. achieved last
half-year.
Before it amalgamated with the North Lyell Mt.
Lyell had paid £996,574 in dividends. The amalgamated
co. has since, in three and a half years, paid (including div.
taxes), £945,406. North Lyeli’s debenture debt” was
taken overby the amalgamated co. ; and this shows how
that little load has been tipped :
Debentures Retired Special
Outstanding, during term. Reserve.
Aug., 1903 .. £140,000' _
Mar., 1904 .. 120,000 £20,000 £lOOO
Sept., 1904 .. 97,750 22,250 1556
Mar., 1905 .. 89,760 7,990 1899
Sept., 1905 .. 78,420 11,340 1553
Mar., 1906 .. 76,720 1,700 1469
Sept., 1906.. 45,220 31,500
Mar., 1907 .. 43,120 2,100
Sept., 1907 .. 40,200 2,920
The special reserve mentioned above was built up out of
discounts. But there are no discounts nowadays. As the
co.’s credit has improved, its 5 per cent, debentures have
gradually crept above par, till last half-year even the
little lot bought back cost £l3l in premiums. That
amount has been charged to profit and loss.
* * * *
The Executor, Trustee, and Agency Co. of
South Australia (Adelaide) :
Written Added
off Lease- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. holds. serves, serves.
1898.. £l3lO 5 p.c. = £536 £774 £1475
1899.. 1593 5„ „ 589 £2OO 804 2!279
1900.. 927 5 „,, 745 75 107 2,386
1901.. 1877 5 ~ ~ 767 685 425 2 811
1902.. 1833 5 „ „ 767 690 376 3 187
1903.. 2836 6„ „ 921 1915 6,102
1904.. 1987 6„ „ 921 95 971 6 073
1905.. 2302 7„ ~ 1075 100 1127 7 200
1906.. 2662 7,, ~ 1075 151 1436 5!636
1907.. 4013 7„ „ 1075 100 2838 11,474
This profit for the past year is at the remarkably fine rate
of £l6 14s. 6d. per cent, on capital (£15,350) and reserves
combined. Trustee cos.’ profits are, however, un-
certain ithings ; one rarely knows on what basis they
are made up. Probably this co. charges up com-
mission on the corpus of a trust estate as the
estate is realised; and as S. Australia has been enjoying
a remarkable run of prosperity, during which realisations
have no doubt been frequent and free, that fact would
account for the large profits lately made. But in that
case the State’s inevitable lean years will show a severe
falling, off in this co.’s profits ; and that fact must be
taken into account. So far, certainly, there is very little
cloud on S. Australia’s prospects ; the drought which is
worrying so much of N. S. Wales and Victoria has missed
the centra) State. Twelve f months ago the value of the
trust estates in this co.’s hands was £1,452,874 ; this year
(Sept. 30) the total was £1,825,700—a very fine increase of
business indeed. As probably indicating how readily land
has lately been disposed of in S. Australia, the total value
of the landed estate in hand is only £2456 more now than it
was 12 months ago, notwithstanding that the total value of
the trust estates is £372,826 more. This co.’s own funds
are mainly in Government securities and deposits ; these
together represent £22,550. It has no liabilities to the
public—a point in connection with a trust! co. which
clients, and intending clients, can view with satisfaction,
because it means that the whole of the shareholders’
funds is available for safeguarding: the interests of
beneficiaries under trusts. The so-called trustee co. that
should be viewed with suspicion is the one which turns
itself into a finance co., borrowing and lending, so that
its funds have to protect that risky business as well as
the trust business. This is distinctly not a co. of that sort.
* * * *
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dunedin,
M.L.)
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 ..£4582 6 p.c. =£4352 £5O £20,459
Premiums on new shares .. 85 20,544
1902 .. 8666 7 p.c.= 5842 £3BOO 19,568
1903 .. 7272 7 „ „ 5842 1500 19,498
1904 .. 667 3£ „ „ 2921 17,244
1905 .. 3312 3* „ „ 2921 328 63 17,307
1906 .. 2483 2j „ „ 2086 552 17,152
1907 .. 5093 4 „ „ 3338 1695 60 17,212
That is the best return the co. has had for some years.
Yet, though so much improved, it is nothing for Maori-
land to be proud of. On capital and reserves in the busi-
ness, the net profit shows under £3 Bs. per cent., and that
and the heavy imports of woollen goods constitute good
prima facie evidence that the Protection against foreign
shoddy is not high enough. It is doubtful, too, whether
enough has lately been written off for depreciation.
Anyhow, besides £l5OO provided in the ordinary way for
wear and tear, £195 has been spent on replacements, and
is also now written off. Yet if the amounts previously
written off for depreciation had been adequate, plant
due for renewal would have been written down to
nothing. Still, probably the different machinery has not
been written do\Vn separately; so the incident isn’t
conclusive. The plant now stands in the books at
£59,664, so the £l5OO written off is a shade under 2£ per
cent. ; and that isn’t formidable. Like almost every
manufacturing concern in connection with which the
State isn’t game to offer proper Protection, this co.
carries a load of debt ; but it is better off than most—the
total liabilities are only £15,000, while book debts (reduced
during the year) run to £7532, and stock (manufactured
and raw material) stands at £42,119. In connection with
every such trading concern as this a very great deal
obviously depends upon the valuation of stock ; and that is
a point upon which no two or three balance sheets enable
one to form any opinion at all. All that can guide one
is the reputation of the management, backed up by the
record of the co.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co. (N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Sept.,’o4 10 p.c. = £5703 £3OOO £12,952
Mar., ’05.. £8,053 10 ~ „ 6250 3000 11,755
Sept.,’os.. 8,427 5 „ „ 3185 2000 £3242 14,997
Mar., ’06.. 3,528 5„ „ 3554 1000 13,971
Sept.,’o6.. 2,368 5 „ „ 3750 12,589
Mar., ’07.. 6,666 5,, „ 3750 2000 916 13,505
Sept.,’o7.. 14,916 10 ~ ~ 7500 7000 416 13,921
Besides the amounts shown above as written off, £2035
was provided out of profits during the half-year to cover
depreciation of plant, etc. In the previous half-year
£2257 was provided in that way ; total for the year,
£4292. Plant stands in the books at £93,590; so the
amount written off is about 4£ per cent. The East Greta
railway is, however, not included ; with freeholds (apart
from mining freeholds) this item stands at £59,617. The
co. has been writing down its other assets severely. The
Bast Greta, a freehold, will, after the present writing-
down, figure in the books at only £8499. The Stanford
Merthyr, the co.’s other mine—a leasehold—will now
stand at only £7OOO. As the mines must be worth more
than these amounts, the real reserves are evidently much
more than the stated reserves. The great reduction in
profits shown a few terms back was due to the disaster at
the Stanford Merthyr ; the cost of re-opening that mine
has also been provided out of current revenue. Besides its
mines the co. has a valuable asset in the railway ; the
railway accounts are not, however, presented separately.
The co. is in 150,000 paid £1 shares ; and its liabilities to
the public run to only £18,202 ; and, on the other side,
the book debts alone exceed that amount.
♦ * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 Co., mining silver, lead,
and zinc :
Ore Value.
Treated 1 ~ Divi-
Tons. Silver. Lead. Profit, dends.
Mar., 1902.. 42,847 14-7 oz. 15'31 p.c. £5,386 Nil
Sept., 1902.. 42,825 16-44 ~ 17’89 „ 720 Nil
Mar., 1903.. 50,279 14'01 „ 16'13 „ 1,509 Nil
Loss.
Sept., 1903.. 49,778 14-54 ~ 16-39 „ 1,777 Nil
Profit.
Mar., 1904., 69,777 13'8 „ 15-2 „ 12,680 Nil
Sept., 1904.. 70,643 13T5 ~ 14‘8 „ 11,090 Nil
Mar., 1905.. 59,687 14-13 „ 14'92 „ 20,438 Nil
Sent 1905 / 79 > 073 14,1 » 15-1 „ 41,3761
P \Sale of stored by-products 72,964/ i£75,99 °
Mar., 1906.. 72,364 14'0 oz. 13-5 p.c. 46,804 60,000
Sept., 1906.. 70,947 18-11 ~ 13T9 „ 49,625 30,000
Mar., 1907.. 70,770 12-34 „ 13'32 „ 61,945 65,000
Sept., 1907.. 73,816 1372 „ 13-93 „ 65,786 50,000
For some inscrutable reason the co. does not state
its ore values ; but they can be laboriously worked out as
above from the data supplied. The profit for the past
three half-years may be cut up in this way :
Sept. Mar. Sept.
1906. 1907. 1907.
Silver-lead concentrates .. £40,358 £46,148 £51,243
Stored by-products (instal-
ments) 6,218 12,381 10,000
Current by-products (un-
sold) 3,049 3,041 3,113
Interest 375 1,430
Totals £49,625 £61,945 £65,786
The by-products in the dumps were, some time ago, sold
for zinc-production, and payments and deliveries are to
be made gradually. The payments as they come in are
credited to profit and loss account ; and meantime Is.
per ton is being credited to working account in respect
to the currentproduction of the same class of by-products.
On account of the dumps sold but not paid for £98,333 is
to be received by Block 10—always assuming, of course,
that the people interested can carry out their contracts.
The co. drew £144,932 for its silver-lead concentrates
during the half-year ; but £9034 of that is set aside to
provide for refunds which may be called for when the
final settlements are made, on account of the fall in
metal values. Until then the amount is held as a special
liability reserve.
Assuming that the amount mentioned above
will be called for, and that the profits therefore are as
stated, the co. made £65,786 last half-year, including the
tailings payments. That was at the' rate of £9 9s. per
ton of the 6959 tons of lead contained in the concentrates.
The average price ruling for. lead last half-year was
£2O Bs. 10d., so, after devoting the silver and
the by-products to costs, it required £lO 19s. lOd.
per ton of the lead to pay the balance of ex-
penses. This is a better figure than some other
Broken Hill cos. have shown iately. But two things
must be remembered: (1) Nothing has been deducted
from these profits to cover wear and tear ; (2) a total of
£13,113 of the profit comes from by-products, and at
present the outlook with regard to the commercial value
of this material is exceedingly doubtful. Also silver sold
at a high price last half-year—an average of 2s. 7d. per
oz., while the present price is a shade over 2s. 2d. On
the total of the silver in the concentrates the difference
means £7625. And if £7625 less were got for the silver it
would throw that much more of the costs on to lead, and
raise the total cost of producing it to £l2 Is. lOd. per ton.
This puts the very best face on things at
Block 10. It is true that costs have been heavy at Broken
Hill during the past term, mainly on account of
the great demand for labor ; but as against that
all the costs have not been charged against
current production. Even the sinking of the new main
shaft has been charged to capital—a doubtful plan, seeing
that this new shaft is being sunk, not so much to add to
the value of the mine as to replace a working which is in
peril. That expenditure will have to be written off out of
profits some time; and a heavy contribution might weH
have been made during a period when metals books
such high prices. Even the main shafthavimrbeen
as an asset for £14,637, a miserable little £l ? 2 ? o h
provided for writing-down during the past*tivelv
XO’s finances have generally been most con e
handled ; but it looks just now as if a strong effor
being made to paint the situation in the very ft
colors available. _ .
* * * ■,
Writer was in Newcastle a few days ago, ana
only saw one motor-car, and it wasn’t a miner w
riding in it. Yet, judging by figures one reads, one
would suppose that just about every other Newcastle
coal-miner could afford a Napier turn-out
Melba’s. According to a list published “V
mine-owners the Co-operative men, for instance,
earned up to 21s. 4d. per day in October and 225. Id. in
September. But those highest earnings are very different
from what the owners themselves say the average ear -
i ngs are. For October, according to their list, these averages
ranged from 15s. lOd. at Lambton B pit down to 10s. 50. aG
Elermore. Those, however, are not average daily earnings.
They are only the earnings on the days when there was
work for the miner. A coal-mine owner doesn t DreaK
coal to let it lie at surface. He only breaks it w h®ri he
can dispose of it. If there is a ship in wanting coal there
there may be a full fortnight (11 days). If there
is no ship in, there is no work. Newcastle has
been filled with shipping lately, so _, th ® re , ha ®
been far more regular work than usual. The tact was
mentioned just now that on one day in October a coal-
miner earned 21s. 4d. But go back to the corresponding
month of 1904, and for all October the Co-operative colliery
only worked 2J days. Take the last fortnight in each of the
two Octobers—prosperous 1907, and only moderately pros-
perous 1904 : the men had lOdays work one fortnight, and
If days the other fortnight; total for four weeks, Ilf days.
Now, during October, 1907, the owners claim that the Co-
operative men averaged 12s. 9d. Well, take it at that:
Ilf days at 12s. 9d. = 1495. 9d., or an average for the
four weeks of 375. sfd. per week. And out of that the
miner has to pay for explosives and also the wages of the
check-weighman, whom the law compels the miners to
employ and pay.
* " ‘ t
Still it isn’t suggested that collieries often work
as little as 2f days a month, as the Co-operative did in
October, 1904. But it is a fact that, in many cases, they
do not work more than six days a fortnight. Last month,
Duckenfield worked full time (11 days) per fortnight; in
October, 1903, it worked only eight days in the four weeks.
Figures for 1905 are not available, but here they are for
four years :—October, 1903, 8 days ; 1904, 12 days ; 1906,
21J days ; 1907, 22 days. For the four years, that averages
just under 16 days a month (four weeks). During October
the owners say the average earnings were 10s. lOd. At
that rate, for those four Octobers, the average earnings
would be £2 3s. 4d. per week—again less cost of explo-
sives, etc. Duckenfield appears to be a fair average of
the lot. It is certainly not worse than the average.
Such an old-established concern as the Wallsend, for
instance, worked only 14 days in October, 1903, and 13
days in October, 1904—an average of 3f days per week.
It is tolerably clear, then, that the public must have been
badly deceived by the figures that have been published
about the earnings of the miners. To send such figures
out may be warfare, but it isn’t justice.
* » *
This strike at Newcastle will probably give the
old Stockton colliery its knock-out. Situated right at
the entrance to the harbor, the present co., which has
been digging away for just upon 25 years, has pursued the
seamoutto sea until the slopingbedoftheoceanisnowonly
about 120 ft. above the coal seam ; and at that point trouble
is bound to begin. In fact, British engineers would pro-
bably have stopped before ; Professor Arnold Lupton, a
well-known t’otherside authority on the subject, said
lately—“ The small thickness of ground left between the
bottom of the sea and the coal-seaifi (120 ft.) proves that
Australian engineers have strong nerves.” Stockton has
had troubles with fire, too ; and the Mines Department
has for some time past been frowning upon the further
working of the old mine. So the co. has come up the
line and acquired a leasehold of about four square miles
at Teralba, and it is not likely that there will be any more
regular coal-winning at Stockton.
* * * *
Broken Hill is beginning to have a very gloomy
feeling about its water supply. How much water there
is in its one reservoir, at Stephens Creek, nobody knows
—not even the co.’s officials. For the Stephens Creek
reservoir really consists of a big weir built across a sandy
creek where it passes through a gorge, and how much
the shallow basin has silted up no one knows for certain.
The official idea appears to be that the supply may last
till towards the end of February ; and to the visitor that
estimate seems to be stretched as far as it will hang to-
gether. The end of February looks a good way off in dis-
tricts that think they are parched if they don’t get some
sort of a shower once in six weeks ; but the Barrier isn’t
one of those districts. If rain doesn’t fall before the end
of February, all but one or two of the mines will have to
shut up shop ; for the concentrating mills can’t work
without water, and only one or two of the smaller cos.
can draw enough from underground supplies to keep
going. ' '■
* * » *
Broken Hill Block 14 report, just issued, must
be considered with caution. The profit was £78,170, less
depreciation £4179, leaving £73,991 net. Out of this the
10 per cent, preference capital (£30,000) took a first bite
of £l5OO, leaving £72,491 available for distribution among
all shares. This is a fine result for a co. which was
so hard up as Block 14 lately was—how hard up is shown
by the fact that it had to offer a 10 per cent, preference
plus ordinary rights, in order to raise £30,000 of capital in
6s. shares. Caution, however, is necessary because of
the large proportion of profits which came from
the carbonates. Deliveries of this ore amounted
to 10,622 tons, while only 5924 tons of sulphide
concentrates were produced from 46,301 tons of
ore. The receipts from the two classes of ore
are not separated; and, as even the “probable”
carbonates only run to 18 months’ supply at the recent
rate of extraction, the accounts are not much use without
that information. It is very doubtful whbther the sul-
phides, v/hich will have to be relied upon after the car-
bonates have gone, were responsible for more than
£25,000 of the profit; the balance came from zinc tailings
(£7500) and the carbonates, the latter worth 34'5 per
cent, for lead and 13oz. for silver.
* * * *
British Broken Hill has a lot of very fine ore
below the 300 ft. level of Marsh shaft. In the main work-
ings, however, rhodonite is making ore-breaking expen-
sive, and it will mar metal recoveries. The eastern vein,
on which the British has been compelled to stake a good
deal, carries a large amount of this mineral. The face
of the north drive from Howell’s shaft to Thompson’s, on
the 800 ft. level, has been almost filled with rhodonite for a
week past, and the ore only occurs in bunches. This is
the northward continuation of the eastern vein, where it
swings round a little from the eastward.
* » * »
Poorer ore is coming, in at both ends of the
900 ft. north stope in the Broken Hill Junction. This
stope has yielded well for a long time past, and has main-
tained a good grade all the while. It is disappointing to
find that its southern continuation seems to be so soon
ending. On the Junction North boundary the fact that
a bar of rhodonite appeared doesn’t much matter, as the
work at that end was only being done to cleat the ground
about the hauling winze, and could only have been
carried on for about 50ft., anyway. Difficulties are being
experienced in the sinking of Browne shaft.
* * It *
Yambulla field (N.S.W.) naturally divides
itself into two parts. The big mine—the Yambulla —is
owned by Miradian and Pola, one an Armenian, the other
an Italian. It carries 22 men, all told, with a 10-head
battery. The shaft is down 260 ft. on a reef from 14ft. to
15ft. wide. Indeed, the output exceeds the battery
capacity, which is 60 to 70 tons per week on a two-shift
basis. Last crushing yielded 1250 z. from 175 tons. In
addition, there were over a ton and a half of concentrates,
which gave an average of 7oz. per ton at Cockle Creek,
where a hand-picked parcel of over 10 tons resulted in an
average of 12£oz. of fine gold and 9oz. of silver. In
financially strong hands, there should be a future before
this big body of ore. Rest of the field is capped for about
50ft. with a soft, decomposed granite, which affords em-
ployment to 30 or 40 fossickers. At the depth, blasting
is necessary, and the stone doesn’t pay for the uncertain
sulphides in it. Through the cap run erratic, pipey veins
of rubble carrying free gold. A few miles further, and in
the wilds of Croajingalong, is Stephens’ New Chum, just
sold to a Vic. syndicate. On assay, this has repeatedly
given 600 oz. of silver, and from 6oz. to 12oz. fine gold.
The whole of this country, from Monaro edge to the coast
flats, would be worth inspection. At present it is
hampered'by being close to Nowhere, and bounded by
jumbuckB on one side and the Holy Cow on the other.


Make
'Sothatit
Wilt he
Carried
-V
A
■S-
gfH| r jjL
i' riA
A
°M
w.
2W
SH
Appoint
TttC ■ iU
-The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“hitches” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad.- The best machine for this work is the
“Shaw’’Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has onlv one working part—the hammer —which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. Ir some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2-tin. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
The Insurance Freeman (Liverpool) in its
issue of Ist September wrote :—“Quietly, unobtrusively,
but none the less surely The Colonial Mutual Life Office is
becoming a most important factor in the insurance world.
To have accumulated close upon £3,000,000 in 32 years is
in itself a performance unique in the history of British
ordinary life offices, and this achievement is but one
among many of the accomplishments of the Society.”*
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keamand Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan's Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
« * * *
Auckland's New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony.in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said ; —“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid‘way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated W'hat the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the>-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * »
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.* ,
• • * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * ■* <
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
LOHMANN (Si COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NTSfor OTTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlio, Cologne, as
‘supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY. —Excavators and Dredging: Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds, [ft
Parkes (N.S.W.) has materialised Dyson’s
“Golden Shanty.” Blarney’s Hall, built away back iti
the pre-cyanide days, is being demolished, and the old
mortar saved lor treatment. Some people reckon the
sand in the composition, when subjected to cyaniding,
will pan out at 4dwt. per ton.
* * * «
It was plucky but foolish of the Pinnacles Co.
to pioneer the treatment of crude Barrier silver-lead sul-
phide ore by the Elmore vacuum process. After many
weeks of expensive trials, the management has evidently
realised that, although the Elmore process may give ex-
cellent results under certain conditions, it makes
but a feeble struggle with the heavily mineralised
crude ore of the Pinnacles. The two Elmore units in-
stalled at the Pinnacles mill were supposed to have each
a 25-tons a day capacity. They didn’t treat more than 30
tons per da}' between them. The co. has had to pay
pretty dearly for its experience, and now humbly reverts
to the old wet concentration. A new plant, to treat
about 400 tons per week, will have to be installed, and
this will take time. Meanwhile the co. continues to lose
the benefit of a good lead market. Also, it is left with
an expensive vacuum plant on its hands, which can only
be effectively used for the treatment of tailings. Had
the wet concentration plant been erected in the first
place, all this loss of time and waste of money would not
have occurred. It is only another illustration—Broken
Hill has had several—of the fallacy of accepting the re-
sults given by small experimental plants as proof of com-
mercial efficiency under all circumstances.
* vt * *
Cobar, 475. 6d. —the latest London quotation.
A month or two back, when the madness raged, they
passed £l2. It is poor consolation to the man who paid
£l2 to be told that in the long run he may get his
money back. Besides the long waiting for it and
the risk that he won’t get it after all, he
realises that he could get nearly three shares
now for. what he paid for one. In London they have
been trying to explain the slump. The decline in the
copper market is, of course, the biggest factor ; yet it is
stupid not to recognise that the price is still good as long
as it keeps above £53. Apart from that, there has been a
disquieting fall in the metal contents of the ore.
In view of the latter, the shareholders begin to look
anxiously at the heavy swag of debentures, and
the undertaking to put aside £lOO,OOO a year,
beginning with next year, to pay off this liability. With
poorer ore and a weaker market, this £lOO,OOO a year (to
be paid into a sinking fund and invested in the deben-
tures till the whole issue of £550,000 is provided for)
will make a big hole in even the Great Cobar’s
profit, especially when the 6 per cent, debenture in-
terest (£33,000 a year) has also to be cut out
of the same cake. The prospectus figured on copper first
at £Bsper ton, and subsequently at £7O per ton ;at £B5
per ton the present plant, producing 4000 tons a year,
could earn 15 per cent. —the amount that was actually
paid the first year—while the enlarged plant was ex-
pected to produce 13,000 tons of copper and make
enough profit to pay three times that dividend
with copper at £7O. The shrinkage in metal
value means a reduction in output of metal without
a reduction of total costs; and even a 10 per cent,
reduction, knocking off 1300 tons, means also knocking
off £91,000 of profit from the prospectus estimate, equal
to 12J per cent, on capital. The difference between an
output of 11,700 tons of copper a year at £6O and the
prospectus estimate of 13,000 tons at, £7O is £208,000,
equal to over 27 per cent, on the share capital ; and on
recent figures it seems prudent to write off no less
an amount than that from the promoters’ estimates.
* * * *
One little Australian industry that is steadily
battling away is graphite production, and the working-
up of the mineral into foundry facings, crucibles, stone-
polish, and, now, lead-pencils. The mineral comes mainly
from the Wide Bay district (Q.), and the manufacture
is carried on in Sydney. It was slow' work at first; but
the co. established a good name for its foundry facings in
particular, and now having reached, if it has not passed,
the standard of its European competitors, it begins to
look abroad for a foreign market, and has already made
some small shipments.
* * * *
Total dividends paid by Westralian mining
cos. to the end of October amounted to £17,158,285.
The principal contributors have been : Great Boulder,
£2,578,675; Horseshoe, £2,430,000 ; Orova-Brown Hill,
£2,011,241 ; Ivanhoe, £1,868,750 ; Finga'll, £1,543,750 ;
Lake View Consols, £1,378,750 ; Perseverance, £1,286,250 ;
Kalgurli, £585,000; Associated, £530,457; Associated
Northern, £525,000 ; and Sons of Gwalia, £458,175. This
year’s total will probably run out at a shade over
£1,600,000, as against £1,992,000 for 1906, and £2,167,639
for 1905. For some time past the Boulder, Ivanhoe,
Horseshoe, Kalgurli, Oroya-Brown Hill and Fingall have
accounted for nearly five-sixths of the money distributed ;
but as the two last-named are fading fast, and as the rest
cannot be expected to stand the present strain much
longer, J. Bull had better be prepared for a further
shrinkage in his income. What the West badly wants,
and what apparently it hasn’t got, are new' mines to fill
the gap when the few mines which now earn the bulk of
the dividends become worked out.
» * * *
Lake View Consols income for the year ending
June 30, 1907, amounted to £176,150, and a profit of
£21,593 was netted. This was equal to 3s. Id. per ton of
ore treated. The unappropriated balance of profit from
the previous year brings the total to £26,642. Of this
sum £7BOO has gone in interest in the Siberian Gold
Dredging Co., a Is. dividend (which entitled the general
managers to a cut of £174) has been paid ; and the balance
of £l2OO has been carried forward. Working results
for the year show that costs have been further
reduced to 18s. 6d., and this offsets the small decrease
show’n in the grade of the ore reserves. The mine’s finance
account includes all the outside interests acquired prior
to June 30 last. The 58,525 paid Broken Hill South
Blocks, which are now' marketable at a shade under par,
besides £28,770 of Burma Mines debenture stock and
shares (real value unknowm), stand in the books at £22,931.
The cost of the remaining shares and debentures, made
up of interests in Peru, Siberia, and elsewhere, has been
entirely written off. In addition, the co. has purchased
at a cost of £6400 more than four-sevenths interest in an
unnamed Westralian developing mine, with an option on
the balance of its shares. The report says that the ore iii
sight is estimated at 20,000 tons, from which a profit of at
least 15s. per ton is expected, and the co. owning this
show has a working capital of £ll,OOO and a calling
power of £17,600. Although the name of this property
has been withheld, it may be taken for granted that it is
the Golden Link, Kalgoorlie. Besides these assets, the
co. had at the time the accounts w'ere made up cash an d
liquid assets, including loans, amounting to £112,415.
The principal features of the year’s operations in the
Lake View mine itself has been the further development
of low' grade ore in the bottom levels, and the reserves
now in sight assure the payment of at least another
Is. 6d. in dividends. The life of the property as a divi-
dend earner hangs, how'ever, on a trembling balance.
Golden Ridges are being sought after in the
West. Twelve months ago shares were to be had for ss. :
now they cannot be bought for 305., and are being talked
up to £2. If they reach this last figure the property will
only have a market valuation of a little over £62,000. As
the monthly profit now exceeds £2OOO, and the ore re-
serves are quite 18 months ahead of the mill, the profit in
sight is from £35,000 to £40,000. For the rest, all depends
on what the reef is worth at 400 ft. If anything unfavor-
able happens there, shares may, on account of the limited
market in the scrip, fall sharply.
**‘ * *
Another estimate of ore reserves has been made
by the Boulder Perseverance officials. Contrary to
general anticipation, the figures show little alteration
from those given some time back, when 383,410 tons,
valued at £708,531, and 226,192 tons, nominally worth
bdwt. per ton, were said to be insight. In view of the
poor way this mine is shaping in depth, it is somewhat
astonishing to learn that the reserves are not showing any
serious depletion. However, the management says they
are not, and there the matter ends for the time being.
The Kalgurli Co. (W.A.) is about to try the
experiment of appointing E. S. Black—a commercial
man—as general manager. This arrangement may work
out all right, but, taking into account the many mining
and metallurgical problems involved in the running of
this mine, it is also liable to turn out all wrong.
Last month, Associated Northern (W.A.) made
a profit of £8509 from the treatment of 68s. ore. This
surplus is about £l7OO short of that for September, when
the average was 78s. 3d. Seeing that the grade is to be
further lowered—first to 605., and then to about 50s.—a
corresponding reduction in dividends must follow. Taking
the latest estimate of ore reserves as a basis, and allowing'
for losses in residues and cost of production, the profit in
sight now works out at about 65 per cent, of the mine’s
present market valuation. But, besides, the co. has a
cash reserve of about £150,000, equal to about Bs. per
share.
* * * *
From an uninterested man on the spot: “Daily
papers infer that the underlay of the Oroya-Black Eange
shoot has been cut at a depth of 180 ft. in the adjoining
Sandstone Development Co.’s Juno lease. Wrong ! The
shaft in which the strike w’as made lies several hundred
feet north of the other co.’s workings, and the ore met
with is not part of the Black Eange shoot at all. As
pointed out in B. 20/6/’O7, the Sandstone Co.’s Juno lease
must get a bit of this shoot if it holds down, but as the
gold dips south, values will soon pass once more into
Black Eange ground. The yarn about the weakness of
Oroya-Black Eanges being due to the strike alluded to is
also wrong, while the tale spun by a Perth paper about
the public having been induced to buy Oroya shares up
to 30s. before the first crushing, on the strength of official
hints that ounce crushings were to be maintained, is pre-
varication. As far back as June last, it was announced
(The Bulletin printed it) that the management intended
to set its face against ‘ window dressing,’ and run on a
grade that could be maintained.”
* • * *
J. S. Read, of Perth, agent for the vendors of
the Wheal Ellen (W.A.), in defence of the Melbourne
flotation of that failure : “ The property was purchased (1)
on its past record—viz., some 250 tons of ore yielding
25000 z. gold, valued at £10,000; (2) on the specimens,
which undoubtedly came from the mine ; and (3) on the
Government engineer’s report, backed up by other re-
ports. ... The shares were simply rushed, although no
prospectus was issued. . . I say emphatically that no
misrepresentations were made, and if shareholders want
to take action, the sooner the better.” The same old
story about the reef being shipped over in a box for flota-
tion purposes, and the same old yarn about a new crop of
greedy fools rushing in and getting hurt.
* * * *
A split has occurred in the Callion camp, and
some dirty linen may be washed in public at any time.
At present the bulk of the scrip is held in the AVest, and
a strenuous effort is about to be made to get rid of the
Adelaide Board and remove the office to Kalgoorlie.
This, however, is not likely to be effected without a
struggle. Meantime, the mine is shut down, funds are
low, an overhaul of the accounts is being asked for, the
sale of another lot of forfeited shares is about to take
place, and more calls are looming ahead. The manage-
ment claims that a five-head mill would show a monthly
profit of £4OO from the oxidised ore; but that estimate
needs expert backing.
* * * •»
Randall’s (W.A.) is about punctured. Some
time ago the Westralian press was reporting almost every
week the great value of this field, and, although men
like Hamilton of the Boulder turned up their noses at it,
. bad mines were proclaimed good, and the boom had its
way. Finally the Government mill got to work, and then
the boom faded. So far only one shoot has been dis-
covered, and this seems to go to pieces at about 100 ft.
from the surface.
« * * •
Nothing more cheerful can be said about the
Moolyella tin-field (W.A.). Its mainstay—McDonald’s
claim—is easing off, while the returns froni other alluvial
shows are rapidly declining. The deposit occurs in the
form of a thin layer of tin scattered over a large area,
and bedrock is reached at 25ft. from the surface. Owing
to the extreme fineness of the particles, recovery is, under
present conditions, difficult. Perth Herald still beats its
little boomster’s drum, however, and resuscitates the silly
lie about The Bulletin “maintaining an attitude of im-
placable hostility to everything Westralian.” The last
time Perth papers trotted out that dear old gibe was
when they were busy booming Golden Pole and this
paper wasn’t. Where is that party now?
* * * *
Shierlaw’s Perseverance has been recommended
for forfeiture, and Webster’s Find has been abandoned to
its fate. These are two of the wild cats comprised in the
Westralia Esperanza, one of the assets of the Coolgardie
Gold Syndicate, which has “ great possibilities ahead of
it,” according to the official story told to the languishing
shareholders in London, less than three months ago.
* • * *
Bendigo miners want a bit more recompense
in return for contracting miners’ complaint in the deep
mines, and sweating out life below. Bendigo mine-owners
say “ No,” and it is well to tapeyard up the reason given.
Stanfield, speaking for them, says that most of the miners
in the face are getting. £2 ss. per week. Well, supposing
they are. Is £2 ss. a wage on which to bring up a family
while making provision for a possible early disablement ?
Stanfield says that 112 cos. are at work, and that calls
show up worse than divs. Here are his figures
Excess of divs. Excess of calls.
1905 £54,728
1906 23,300
1907 (six months).. £69,000
This certainly looks bad for the “Golden City.” Stan-
field adds that £400,000 is paid annually in wages in
Bendigo, and that the whole of the 1905, excess of divs.
would have been mopped up if the Bs. 4d. standard wage
had been universal. This may be true ; but the point he
has not figured,out is, do the cos. get better work by
sweating than by paying a fair wage? Qan they keep,
good men at Bendigo at Bs. 4d., which isn’t the average,
when 12s. to 14s. a shift can be earned elsewhere?. Poor,
wages mean poor service. Also, poor wages very often
tend to malpractice, such as gold stealing, simply because
Want has to be kept from the door.
* * * *
Band and Loch, Ballarat, is still the “stringer”
it has been for years past, and it will remain so until the
heroic step is taken. That step is to sink the main shaft
and work without any dog’s-hind-leg business. A break
cut off the shoot worked at, 2030 ft., so that groping is
being done at 2300 ft. The idea is that the gold has
pitched north. Somehow Nature, when playing pranks
with formations, has a sad knack of also cutting off the
gold or leaving it only close to the break. How the co.
has come down as a gold producer is shown by the record
of 624 tons for 3220 z. as the half-year’s work.
* * * *
Williams’ Fancy, Berringa (Vic.), after a long
rest, has hit upon a patch and got back to the div. list!
The sixpence per share disbursed raises total profits
divided to £15,000. It is told with great solemnity that
no one knows whence the specimen stone came
that it was only found in the bin at the
battery, and that it is supposed to have come
from No. 5 level north. This little bit of gossip gives the
history of a lot of Berringa mining. Pockets of gold are
found, and are used to keep the poor mass “ sweetened ”
until they are exhausted. Then the yields fall back to
about. 4dwt., and after that comes the tussle to keeD the
wolf out of the door.
* * « •
After a long struggle with a big debt, the
Normanby North, Ballarat, looks like dividends. The
struggle with the big debt practically kept the co. alive,
for it never had time to think of windinar ud. Now at
the 900 ft. and 1000 ft. levels, biff makes of payable stone
e *P loited - Yields are giving- fair profits, and,
with the calls, are reducing the co.’s liabilities.
* * * *
Evidently the Victoria United people, Ballarat
Bast, don’t mind what happens to shares. A big drop in
the yields brought shares down from 275. to 155., though
°° uld ha , v ® b , een ob viated if the reserve of ore in the
, el , had been ta PP ed before the big lode at the
1215 ft. level went poor. Up to date 4624 tons have been
crushed from the 1300 ft. level for 15150 z. gold, which will
average 7dwt., pyrites included. This stone can also be
worked at lower cost than that at 1215 ft.
$
Port Arthur, Piggoreet (Vic.), is passing into a
decline. Shares tumbled when the bottom level failed to
come up to expectations. The shaft is being sunk
another 100 ft., and the prospects for the next level may
be better if a slide does not coine in.
The Duke of YVellington, Bangamie (Vic.), is
now out of debt, owing to better returns from recently
discovered stone. A Melbourne crowd, opposed to a
Melbourne-Ballarat combination, is fighting for control
and between the two the public is liable to get some
bumping.
* * * *
General Manager Sticht, of Mt. Lyell, reports
ore in sight in North Lyell mine on September 30 as 438,020
tons, against 356,464 tons six months before. Average
grade of copper in this is 575 per cent., or £ per cent,
above the previous ore contents ; so that there is im-
provement in quality and quantity. Taking the output
of North Lyell ore at 120,000 tons per annum, the reserve
gives 3£ years’ silicious ore in sight; without further
finds the co. would, after that, be in extremis
with copper at £6O. The co. is, however, opening
out at 1000 ft., and next half-year should see
an addition to the reserves. Allowing another 120,000
tons for that development, a year’s reserves is tacked on.
Most of the ore now comes from 700 ft., with 600 ft. stopes
next, and the 400 ft. and 300 ft. drawn on slightly.
Shareholders, above all, have to keep an eye on what goes
on below 600 ft., if they want to tell how the wind blows.
Sticht’s estimates, made when the Mt. Lyell Co.
fused the North Lyell on to itself in 1904, was
Mt. Lyell ore, available for open cutting, 1,613,198 tons.
Now (Sept. 30) that total is 1,054,566 tons, notwith-
standing that meantime about 1,000,000 tons have been
beaten out. The difference is made up by the extension
of the upper benches, and the deepening of the point to
which open-cut work can be done. But there has been
a reduction of metal contents to 0.60 per cent, copper.
The North Lyell estimate in 1904 was 170,494 tons down
to 500 feet. In Sept., 1906, it was 322,161 tons down
to 700 feet. Now it is 438,020 tons down to 850 feet,
with the average 5.75 per cent, copper, 1.330 z. silver,
and 0.0050 z. gold per ton. Since 1904 some 400,000 tons
have been won, so that Sticht’s original estimate was
wonderfully safe, and it is fair to assume that he has
been equally cautious on the present occasion.
* * * *
A strike of tin ore in the Vulcan shaft at 1300 ft.
is the best news North Queensland has had for many
weeks. It proves that N.Q. is not all shallow. When
shares kept on declining in face of a high metal market
it discouraged most people ; but many old N. Queens-
landers who follow John Moffat have as much faith in the
Vulcan as in the Scriptures ; so scrip never went below
ss. The output for October was 1000, tons of fair-grade
ore. Hopes will now revive that the mine will resume
the payment of the monthly threepenny divs., which, on
264,000 shares, require 453300 per month.
* » * *
Charters Towers’ dividends for the first 10
months of the year were £84,337 ; the calls ran up to
£69,804. Partly because of an improvement here and
there in the mines, but mainly because the field got tired
of the drain , and took a hand in the copper gamble, this
year's calls show a severe shrinkage compared with last
year’s, when to the end of October £107,834 was got in.
• * » *
At the Golden Alexandra, Charters Towers,
development work is being carried on at No. 6 level,
506 ft. vertical. This level was extended 200 ft. east of
the underlay, where a dyke or vertical crosscourse of
rotten diorite cut off the reef, and it was no easy matter
to pick it up again east of the dyke. A crosscut was put
in 70ft. into the hanging wall, and then another crosscut
was driven about the same distance into the footwall.
Two veins a few feet apart have been cut—the first one
at 45ft. on the footwall side—and if this is the same reef
as that worked on the western side of the dyke, it has
faulted considerably. The reef is very flat, and levels are
only a short vertical distance apart. With breaks and
blanks and a narrow vein, mining comes expensive, so
there is nothing very certain about dividends. The last
crushing of 637 tons yielded £3300 ; but it took a long
time to get. The recent development east of the dyke
was required to prolong the life of the mine. There is a
length of more than 500 ft. to the eastern boundary, but
in broken country that is not enough to get enthusiastic
about.
• * * *
Accounts of the Carrington United, the outside-
Charters Towers gold mine which has largely turned
itself into a copper proposition, have been issued. The
revenue account shows a loss of £4675 for the half-year,
including £260 provided for depreciation. But as no
credit has been taken for the ore broken and awaiting
treatment, the figures are unreliable. Harris, lately of
Queen Bee, Cobar, who is now in charge, thinks well of
the property, and has got everything ready for regular
production of blister copper. Costs will not be low, but
the gold contents will give the co. a big lift. Harris
contemplates a preliminary kiln roasting for the firsts and
milling for the seconds.
* •* * *
Gilmore’s (N.Q.) crushed at Gurrumba 136 tons
of stone for a money value of £2340. Another 100 tons
gave 21 tons of black tin, but the stone, taken from the
lower level of the Midas, is more pyritic, and cannot, at
Gurrumba mill at least, be dressed to a high grade. For
the first time in the history of the co. the tin was sold by
tender, and was secured by Lempriere, of Herberton.
Probably in the future samples will be submitted to
buyers outside the' Irvinebank Co. The co. is handi-
capped by the pack-team system of carting ore to the
mill. It costs £1 per ton, which, with bags, bagging,
and sewing, means 255.. per ton, though the distance is
only seven miles and the road is good. Yet it is alleged
that there are teamsters ready to jump the job at iss.
per ton. There is some talk of the co. erecting a calci-
ning plant, similar to the one in use at Smith’s Creek.
* * * «
Professor Gregory doesn’t fall into line with
some other geologists, including Government Geologist
Pittman, of N.S.W., about the cause of the artesian
water supply. Gregory says the cause is local, and due
to the earth’s heat, and there is the !80deg. Fahrenheit
recorded at the Dagworth bore in Queensland to give that
theory a lift. ' The generally accepted theory is that the
supplies are really the drainage from soft; porous intake
• beds Which soak up the heavy rainfall, probably of North
Queensland in particular. At Blantyre, near the Hughen-
den railway, they have been sinking a shaft for coal, and
the powerful pumps have great difficulty, in keeping the
water down'; so there is a vast natural reservoir of water
200 miles away from the artesian country. This natural
reservoir may be connected with the intake beds.
* 1 * « «
The analyses of the iron ore brought lately from
Yampi Sound, away on the extreme north-west of
W.A., have'proved very satisfactory. The co.—the Aus-
tralian Prospecting Association—which sent a party
round to knock samples off the deposits, consists mainly
of Charters Towers men, most of them interested in the
Iron Island Co., which is supplying Mt. Morgan with
flux. Assays show from 64’9 per cent, to 71‘9 per cent,
of iron, and o's to 7 percent, silica ; while the highest
sulphur contents were o'o9l per cent. Of phosphorus the
worst record was;o’64 per cent., and three samples out of
four showed less than l-35th of 1 per cent. The deposits
are very large, and right alongside water, and, though
remote, it is expected that a profitable market will be
found for ore at once. Work is to be started there in
April, when 'a wharf and ore bins will be built.
The Tasmanian Copper Co.’s S. Australian
people have got a move on, and, spurred by the Mines
Department, have let three of their Far North properties
on tribute. But now comes a knock to some of the miners
who had been hanging on in the hope of getting tributes :
Blinman smelters are to be shortly closed, and no more
ore is to be taken there. A cry is therefore being raised
fora State smelter; but, after its previous disastrous
experience in that line, the Government will think hard
before it does anything. One proposal is that the State
should lease the Tasmanian Oo.’s never-used Mountain of
Light works, at Leigh’s Creek ; but the, movers in the
matter haven’t come forward with any guarantees to
supply certain minimum quantities of ore ; and that is
the first essential.
* • * *
Shareholders in the Taranaki (M.L.) Petroleum
Co. asked for information at the first annual meeting,
and got it. The manager, W. A. Simpson, reported that
the Birthday well, which was much boomed what time
many prominent shareholders were “unloading,” was
full of water... obstructions. .. strainer pipe, and lost
casing.” The co. had been told it was a 400-gallon well.
If 198 were deducted from the 200 and the remainder-
divided by two, it would be nearer the actual result. But
that didn’t say there was no oil in Maoriland. He was
confident that there was, but he was not going to say
they’d get it.... As to the future, he recommended that
the directors continue operations on No. 3 down to a
sufficient depth to thoroughly test the Moturoa district,
in the meantime closing down all the other bores.”
* * * *
A.E.P. : Rudely gore probably the best at the
price ; of the others, put Hampden at the bottom of the
list... .Severin : Don’t advise anyone to go to Lightning
Bidge, especially if he hasn’t means. Keport that “so
far the workings are mere surface scratching ” is rubbish,
opal-mining practically everywhere is mere surface
scratching.
* * * *
“Imagine a perfect cube of coal 9ft. sin. in
height and breadth and width. Then out of a corner of
that cube break off one cubic foot. That shovelful will
represent all that has been taken ; the hardly scratched
remainder will represent what is left of the workable part
of the N.S. W. coastal coalfields.”-—From a Lone Hand
(November)article on “The Mineral Industry.”


POSTAL EDUCATION
BEARS GOOD FRUIT
<3
SO
e
m
HICS
High Salaries and splendid prospects are
opened up to those young men and women
b who use rightly their spare evening hours
in mastering our courses of Postal
Tuition. Besides all general educational
subjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough methods:—
Bookkeeping. Business Penmanship and
Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc,
lor "HOME STUDY." Po„ f,.. .ppl| CA t, nn 1$
STOTT &t H OAHJE’S
. BUSINESS COLLEGE
MOORE ST W E ET. SVPNEV j
Saturate a piece of cotton with Chamber-
lain’s Pain Balm, and place in the cavity of your
aching tooth. Also bathe the surrounding part
with this liniment. First application gives relief.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ G-.5.K.” : Have struck the Meanest
Smoker. He smokes the butt of his four-fifth
consumed cigar from the point of a penknife, and
thereafter, Jwhen matters grow very warm indeed,
thrusts the reeking remainder into his pipe, and
so finishes it to the last fragment of cabbage stalk.
“ Wake ” : Has any Aboliar noted that the
magpie has this year built his nest on the strongest
limbs available, and does it mean much wind ?
Seems so here (South Aus.). Re “Nil’s” com-
plaint (7/11/’O7) that no patriot has preserved
native names of the lovely Adelaide hill flowers.
Perhaps they never had any. Natives were scarce
in those parts. Cordially agree with “Nil’s”
estimate of the beauty of the flowers.
A “BUNNY” FREAK.
Illustration showing skin of a rabbit shot at
Medlow Bath (N.S.W.), on which Nature has
photographed another “bunny” outline. The
Medlow Bath Office, Sydney, holds the skin.
“R.S.R.”: A method of dealing with
snorers. Once whilst putting in al5 weeks’ stay
in the accident ward of a big hospital, I struck a
snorer of the bassoon variety. He was unbearable.
I had heard tell of a cure, and I tried it. Every
time he snored, I whistled, not shrilly but just a
gentle whistle, keeping in good time with his
snore. He stood it for about a dozen snores, then
gave a deep sigh, turned over on his side, and
they woke me at seven next morning. I asked
the snorer about it. He said he did not hear me
whistle. I found the whistle remedy effective
in many cases after that.
“Ja no r” : I
watched a snake get-
ting out of a shal-
low shaft the other
day. He worked
himself into an up-
right position in one
corner until extend-
ed full length—
about 6ft.-—so that,
while his head was
level with the sur-
face his other ex-
tremity (commonly
spoken of as a tail)
rested on the shaft
bottom. Bending
his head at a right
angle with his body,
he got a good hold
of the edge of the
shaft opening with
his chin, or rather
the place where that
feature should have
been. There was a
sudden shortening
of the reptile, and
about a foot of his
business end shot
over the edge of the
shaft. With this he
took a fresh grip,
and another concer-
tina-like movement
landed him on deck.
Seems that snakes
haven’t a possible
of getting out of a
shaft deeper than
their length ; for
large numbers are
killed in shallow
shafts about alluvial
workings. But why
do such cunning,
agile beasties fall
into shafts at all ? I
know they fall down
accidentally, for,
working once in a
16ft. shaft, I was
surprised by a vio-
lent blow between
the shoulders.
Straightening my-
self to make some commonplace but strenuous
remarks to the man on top, I caught sight of a
big tiger snake between my two large boots. I
was quicker with the shovel blade than the tiger
was with his hypodermic outfit, so I am still very
much alive.
“F.H.R.”: “Yarrum” (B. 7/11/’O7)
says a snake could not break an egg if it tried.
Couldn’t it ? Consider the things a snake can
swallow —rabbits, birds, etc., to say nothing of its
own offspring—and then consider the; way a snake
must squeeze a rabbit before the meal passes
through the throat to the stomach. And after
considering those things, tell me whether a snake
cannot break an egg.
* * * *
“Gum Boot” : I have sometimes found
mountain trout in the gold boxes at the Union
Jack Co.’s claim, Tumbarumba (N.S.W.). These
fish had travelled through a mile of piping after
leaving the dam, thence through a jet with 170 ft.
of pressure, and into the boxes. Still they were
apparently none the worse for their rough passage.
* * * *
A week or two ago N. S. Wales read that
two Western District children had been poisoned
through eating a common European weed called
hemlock. Later they were told that some
hundreds of travelling cattle had suddenly died,
and no one could account for it. First it was said
they had died of eating thistles after rain, then a
doctor said they had died of anthrax, but when
the blood was examined in Sydney there was no
trace of anthrax bacillus. Finally, Botanist Tur-
ner, after reviewing the various theories, starts
another: —
When traversing the country drained by the Narnoi
River I have seen two exotic poisonous plants growing
there, and on some areas very plentifully, particularly
between Gunnedah and Carroll. They are the “ devil’s
fig,” or “ Mexican poppy ” ( argemone mexicana), and the
“ thorn apple ” ( datura stramonium).
The former importation is a comparatively harm-
less narcotic, though it is used in the West Indies
for hocussing; but the latter is a well-known
poison—the seeds are constantly used by the pro-
fessional poisoners of India. In fact, the whole
plant is deadly, and the leaves, if applied exter-
nally, will produce the same symptoms as if
swallowed. In view of what Botanist Turner
says, it might pay to have a careful botanical
examination made of N.S.W. public lands. Per-
haps, considering how much live-stock it would
save, even Aunty-Sosh wouldn’t mind.
“ Jaybell ” : That advice to young mis-
sionaries, “Be good to your horse,” quoted from
“The Man from Curdie’s River” (Red Page,
24/10/’O7), is just the sort of nice dictum one always
expects, and invariably receives, from kirk elders,
moderators, vestrymen, plate-pushers, and all the
rest of the motley horde of uneaten cannibal food
that hangs on to the edges of the Berlessed
Terewth for a stipend and whatever other
profits the job runs to. But the gentle shepherd
doesn’t practise as he preaches. The average
bush missionary goes propping through the
country, on his periodical rounds, bestriding a
prad that looks like a resurrection of 4s. 3d. worth
of zoo meat. Where he picks up the animal in
the first instance the Lord and the missionary only
know. To all appearance he has probably won
the steed in a raffle against death in a ’bus-stable,
knacker’s-yard, or other place of the kind, where
exhausted horses gladly pass in their checks for
the long, long spell. No peripatetic parson of
my acquaintance (and I’ve met them of all shades),
from the red-haired blusterer right down to the
blue-nosed zealot who sports short pants and white
socks, and drinks nothing stronger than diluted
cow-juice, was ever discovered behind or on top of a
moke worth more than its weight as a course in a
menagerie menu. And the chances were that,
even as filling-up material for the raging lion and
the roaring tiger, the weary bones and sinews of
parsondom’s played-out hoss wouldn’t go 2dwt. of
tit-bit to the cwt. The average bush missionary
doesn’t understand the art of glueing his person
to the saddle, and he sits behind his harnessed
locomotive with dread in his heart and fear oozing
out of his countenance. He never cavorts through
the country on a horse that a bushman might
envy ; he’d probably lose his mount the first night
he penetrated the mulga belt, and get blisters on
his parasol hunting the lost animal.
THE FAR NORTH.
BISHOP OUTBACK (to Jacky, who has assured
him there are no alligators near mouth of
river): “ You were right, John, there were
no alligators, and Eve had a lovely swim.
You go in now.”
JACKY : “No fear, boss. Too many plurry
shark! ”
“P. Winkle” : Murray cod is a quick
grower, judging by the results shown on the -Rest-
down (Vic.) Settlement where newly-filled tanks,
dug last season, and filled from the Goulburn chan-
nel through a wire-netting inlet, have disclosed
cod up to 71b. and perch (golden) to 3|lb., when
drying up. There is a glorious opening for a fish-
farm for the breeding and distributing of our
hardy and delicate-eating native fish. Any hole
in an inland stream will yield enough small fry to
form the nucleus of the first season’s crop, and
there is a host of customers awaiting a regular
supply of good fish.
* * * *
“ Judea” : The ’possum knows enough to
get sufficient tucker to keep him in fairly good
condition without much exertion, and so does
the dingo; but neither of them are in it with
the water-rat, whose hold is always loaded
down to the Plimsoll-mark with the good things
of the earth. My favorite spot
for fishing is alongside a tree
which, undermined hy the water,
has fallen inshore, leaving a small
forest of fine black roots, just a
few inches above the water, about
Bft. or 10ft. from the bank. These
small roots make excellent resting
places for myriads of small birds
to perch on while drinking. I
saw a water-rat swim from the
opposite bank to ahalf-submerged
log about 20ft. below me, where
he spelled for half a minute.
Then he let himself down into
,the water as noiselessly as a
streak of fine oil. With only the
extreme tip of his nose above
the water, and without making
the least disturbance or ripple,
he swam gently to the centre of
the bunch of roots, and apparently
rested on a submerged one. Having
got a foothold, he poked his tail
up out of the water and let it
droop over till it looked exactly
like one of the small roots
amongst which it was. There he
waited. Presently a small bird,
without the least suspicion of
the low-down trick his natural
enemy was putting up on him,
dropped down and alighted on the
tail, thinking it was one of the
hundred roots he had alighted on
so often with perfect safety. He
got one billful of water, and then
there was a convulsion, a squeak,
and an exultant rat with a bird
in his mouth was making for the
log, where he proceeded to have breakfast.
* •» * *
“Melliwa” : The ways of the bush J.P.
are multifarious, but the following should collect
the scone for methodical eccentricity After
harvesting most of the day, he arrived at the
court-house at 4 p.m. Went ahead after tea, and
ambled along on the track of the ca-jos all night,
and gave his last weird decision at 4.30 next
morning. I watched the J ustice and the last pair
of litigants amicably helping one another to
harness up to get back to the harvesting, and
turned into the court-house to find a tired police-
man putting out the lights preparatory to getting
back to his station, 20 miles distant. So I accom-
panied the tired cop down to the local pub to get
some information re the legal position of a sleepy
barman who serves drinks before hours.
“The Lily ” : “ Periwinkle ” (B. 7/11/ 07)
infers that the snakes used by most well-known
• ‘charmers ” are harmless. Well, I’ll vouc i or a
tiger snake used by “Professor” Davis (
leg”), at Burnie (Tas.), some years ago. I was
one of the combination at the time, and
musical, was attending to the drum. *
occasion, two doctors being present in the rmg,
the snake killed a pigeon in less than a minute.
Then, without losing hold of the reptile,
induced it to bite himself. He retired for about five
minutes, but was in no immediate hurry to use
his antidote. When he returned the same snake
killed a pigeon in one minute and a hair. x
“ Pegleg ” Davis himself died from the bite ot a
snake at Launceston some few years later.
* * *
Alleged snake-charmer James Morrissey,
who begins to get on Melbourne’s nerves, has
apparently got the Law tangled-up, lopsi e ,
and anyhow. The third time he began spilling
his snakes around, the Law threatened to put
him away for being too slightly sober too often so
now he carefully keeps on the right side of that
line. An attempt was, however, made to suppress
him on the vagrancy charge ; but Janies assured
the Court that he could catch snakes all right, anci
that there was a living in them, so he was dis-
charged in a severe tone. The trouble with
Morrissey is that he isn’t nearly as careful witn
his long streaks of death as nervous constables
think he ought to be. The police carefully slay
all they find on him when he is arrested : but, so
far, he is known to have had at least two dozen
browns, blacks, tigers, and other assorted dis-
asters, and only about a dozen can be accounted
for. The other dozen are understood to be in city
and suburban drains, private bars, churches, and
other places where a serpent would feel at home ;
wherefore a lot of people who wish to see
Morrissey’s back at a) great distance, are demand-
ing that the Law shall suppress him suddenly.
The Law leans back and breathes heavily, and
gurgles that it doesn’t know how.
“ Nameless ” : Remarkable the number of
people who have good advice to giveaway. Once
resolved to try the Simple Life, and with that
end in view took up some land in a Groper-
infested district of W.A. Was cutting down
some timber preparatory to burning off in March
(burning season). Now I knew that the recog-
nised way was to cut down all the smaller trees
and scrub, and leave the large trees to be burned
down later on; but there were only a few big
trees, and, to gratify my bump of order, I resolved
to make a clean sweep of the lot. Every Groper
that passed (and I think every W.A. native in the
district passed one day) thought it his duty to
leave the main road, and come and explain just
what sort of a fool I was. I took all this in good
part, and if I was a trifle sarcastic at times, I
could have been a lot more so, and they would
not have noticed it. But the limit was reached
when the King Groper of those parts drew up,
beckoned me across, and started explaining that
I should leave those trees. There was a girl in
the trap, sol had to repress the burning words
which rose to my lips, but, in a voice of enforced
calm, I asked him had he ever read Mill’s essay
on “Liberty.” He stared uncomprehendingly.
But the girl said: “Father, this gentleman
claims the right to clear his ground his own way.”
Apologies followed. And if I had not decided
(shortly afterwards) that the Simple Life was too
complex for me, I would have tried to see more of
that girl.
* *■ * *
“ San Remo ” : “ Douglas T.” wishes to
know why collie dogs hate the crow. It’s sheer
instinct. The dog is born and bred for the
purpose of guarding sheep, and, as the crow is the
worst enemy of the woolly one, the collie hates the
black marauder with all the hatred of a High-
lander. Again, the collie’s owner hates crows, and
between dog and man exists a close bond of
sympathy in dislikes, as in likes.
NO GLASS.
J. BILSMITH, ESQ., J.P. (just back from. Sydney):
“Went to an cv'nin ’ one night, an’ because
I ’appened to swear wanst or twist, the cows
never arst me again. Sydney people ain't got
no manners, I reckon.”
“F.H.R.”: “ X.Y.” asks (B. 31/10/’O7)
why the swaggy puts a couple of sticks across his
billy while it boils. Well, it is to keep the water
from becoming smoked. (And what is more
nauseous than smoked tea ?) A lid, the sticks or
any blessed thing placed over water when being
boiled keeps the steam down about the surface of
the water, and (to put the matter plainly if not
scientifically) while the steam is there, there
is no room for the smoke too.
THE BUSH M.C.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You will meet him at a party, at a station shearing shed^
Or at Riley’s when they celebrate the day that they
were wed;
Or when Kelly builds a humpy, and his neighbors for a
lark
Drop in to warm the tenement of slab and stringy bark.
He wears a fancy waistcoat; he’s a howling toff, you bet,
With pumps, and green silk handkerchief that forms his
collarette.
And he does it all so pretty, and his waltzing is so neat,
And his scents —the smell of Araby was nothing half so
sweet.
But it’s when a row commences you will see the hero
shine,
He’s like a plug of dynamite a-bustin’ in a mine ;
And it’s wonderful to witness just how peaceful men can
be,
And they’ll never bustle Joey in an argument, you see.
He’ll have no coppin’ partners for a dance or two ahead,
Or waltzin’ “ soosieanners,” or schotteeshin’ them instead )
And it’s “ Snap your trippin’ fancy for the larncers or
quadrille !
Why, can’t yer get a partner, Jack? No rushin’ of it,
Bill.”
He makes’em draw for places, no race for “tops”—no
fear !
“Another couple wanted,” and “Hi, bring yer mutton
’ere ! ”
“ ’Arf right and left—swing partners ! ” I tell you, Joey’s
prime—
He whistles through his fingers when he stops ’em, every
time.
And all night long he yells it out, and tootles undismayed—
“ ’Arf right an’ left—swing partners—advance and prome-
nayde.”
VIC.
THE BIRD.


In advising you to use Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm for rheumatism we know it will give you
perfect satisfaction, as the first application will
relieve the pain.*
PENDANTS are
and will be the great craze for years.
No form of jewel ornament that gives such perfect
finish to a costume.
A simple gown .with a GOOD Pendant is far more
effective than an elaborate creation wanting an
effective pendant.
But ’tis not for us to speak other than of the jewels.
We make them. We set them. We want to sell them.
Our prices are as low as those of London.
FAIRFAX (Si ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures Cash. 23 HUNTER STREET.
Et . U
- JW
%
ST
Brooch and Pendant.—4 Special
Amethysts, 5 Choice Diamonds,
6 Selected Pearls, £B/8/-.
“ Millewa ” : Mine host is an enthusiastic
sportsman, and bags wild duck irrespective of
season. The lake is half-a-mile away from the
house, and one evening this week he relieved the
monotony of life by going in for a paddle. He
was perfectly happy and up to his chin in water,
when he saw a brace of ducks drop into the lake
on the other side. In two ticks he was out of the
water, and ten seconds afterwards his wife and
the two lady visitors, looking for a cool spot
among the bushes, were embarrassed at the sight
of a large and very wet man trotting round on the
wet sand, apparelled magnificently in a game bag
and a double-barrelled breechloader.
How is this for an up-to-date prodigal
return ? Some 30 years, one Jim wearied of
Bendigo, home and mother, and scooted. The
exact direction of Jim’s scoot could never be
determined. Gradually his existence drifted into
a dim and distant memory, and neighborly souls
murmured his name with reverence as something
that had once been. Infact, Jim’s decease in foreign
parts was regarded as a melancholy certainty.
The other week, the “scooter,” tired of humping
his swag along the dusty tracks of his native land,
drifted back to the old home—a derelict—with a
sprig of wattle blossom in one hand (there were
no olive branches available) and a patch to mend
his pants in the other.
* * • *
‘ ‘ Moochabout ” : The cocky runs in all
shapes. Years ago I grafted for a New England
cocky. He ivas a bonster ! Eight hours
a day, and he wouldn’t work
another minute longer !
The missus, too, was a
brickess. Tucker was
plentiful and Al.
She’d growl like any-
thing if we were
late for meals.
Wages the best
going. There was
no chaff-cutting
and tool-grinding
at night or on
Sundays. Satur-
dayafternoons the
boss, missus, the
kid and “the
man” (that’s me)
used to drive to
the township in
the buggy, and
have a good time.
The boss shouted
for “the man,”
and the missus
for the boss.
Worked eleven
weeks for him.
Would have
stayed there all
my life only the
gypsy blood in my
veins got the upper
hand. Cock y’s
tucker is invariably
good and plentiful.
In the olden days,
when men were
scarce, and reapers
and binders and har-
vesters unknown, far-
mers used to pay big
wages, as much as 10s.
and 12s. per day for binders
in the Goulburn Valley
(Vic.). To coax men out, they
even used to bring samples of
their cakes and puddings into the townships
for exhibition. But the men were independent
(I’m speaking of 1884-5-6), in those good
old days that died. Cocky had then, and
has now, “a set” on the real sundowning,
never-work whaler and the city larrikin pushers.
A genuine toiler is mostly well received and fed
by the cultivators of caterpillars and rust.
* * * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” is stirred to anger :
“ Won-hi ” is to be congratulated on his choice of
a pen-name. Only a one-eyed critic would fail to
understand from my pars that I have spent years
in the bush, and that I write only on things I have
seen and studied. I was reared in the bush. For
three interesting and instructive years I travelled
over 60,000 square miles of West-o’-Darling, visit-
ing every tiny tinny township and smaller settle-
ment. As a boy, I spent most of my holidavs
tramping, fishing, shooting, camping out in the
bush. My Nature study began in the bush over
30 years ago. This par is written in the bush. In
brief, “Won-hi” is a liar, and discrimination is
not in him.
* * * «*
“ Batlow ” : Snakes like above all things
a quiet camp. Noises do not affect them, as the
bush has its bird clatter at all times, but it is
earth vibration that annoys the snake. Owing to
this fact we find the snakes diminish in numbers
as rabbits arrive. Sheep, too, disturb them.
THE RABBIT-TRAPPING
SHEPHERD.
The Bishop of Bendigo, in sarcastic reference to the poor pay of the clergy in his diocese,
applied for permission for the wayback parson to increase his stipend by taking out a
Rabbiter's License.
“ Frank Keen ” : He record shearing
(B. 7/11/’O7). Recently, at Yancannia station, in
the Broken Hill district (N.S.W.), the two
Osburgs headed a list of big tallies, shearing
1126 and 1117 respectively in a week, which at the
present shearing rate (245. a hundred) means over
£l3 per week. At Vindex station, Western
Queensland, last month one man earned £4O in
three weeks and four days, while another went up
to £44 ; and at Dagworth this year D. Mathieson
put through 245 and 237 in two successive days.
Outside individual efforts such as the above,
Vindex, of two seasons back, holds the all-Aus-
tralia belt. In that year 24 shearers averaged
through the whole of the shearing from 160 to 170
sheep per day per man.
MISUNDER-
STOOD.
VISITOR (to country undertaker): “I suppose
you have a monopoly in your business here? ”
UNDERTAKER: “No. We make ’em all by hand.”
“RayX.”: If N.Q. towns are eligible,
Maytown must win in the quest for the most
despondent assortment of houses in the Common-
wealth. Once Maytown knew 20,000 people, and
five banks flourished within its walls, and the
pubs were as leaves on Vallambrosa. Now, save
for about a hundred souls, the place is deserted.
The buildings have mostly disappeared down the
throat of the white ant. Ruins line the long,
dusty main street, whose west end stops at the
Palmer River, now (Oct.) dry. Eastward the street
stretches away until it is a mere faint pad, stray-
ing aimlessly through the bare, brown hills. A
solitary landlord dispenses drinks at a shilling a
time. Opposite his pub stand two stores, run by
Chows. All the long day the only sound which
percolates is the bleat of the wandering goat,
chasing the illusive grass blade about the quartz-
strewn surface. Truly, in its utter dejectedness,
Maytown approaches the standard of old Go-
morrah (in its post-catastrophic period), and the
ruined cities of Tyre and Carthage are cheery
pleasure-resorts beside it.
“ The Prooshan ” : Are animals thought-
readers ? Go into a y.ard of sheep with a mate.
The jurnbucks cram into a corner from you, and
pant. You indicate a certain sheep out on the
edge presented rumpwards to you, and say to
your mate, “I must catch that fellow, he's got
footrot.” Well, as soon as you move a step for-
ward. that particular sheep cuts away quite ex-
citedly, doubling, and even jumping” over his
mates to escape. How does he know you’re after
him, before you grab him, or even advance two
paces towards him ?
* » » *
“ F.H.R.” : Have you ever realised how
simple it is to get bushed in a familiar locality
under snow conditions ? A Cousin Jack miner
and I were on night shift at Stuart Town once
when the steel turned up, and we had to take it
to the blacksmith’s shop, a couple of hundred
yards away, for repairs. The imported man of 30
years’ experience could not even sharpen a pick,
so I, being not quite so useless, undertook the
job. Snow had been falling steadily during opera-
tions, and everything was white. We started for
the shaft, but, after an hour’s dreary tramp, we
were still looking for it. This was cheerful.
Fifty pounds’ worth of hole had gone and aban-
doned itself ! We found several trenches by fall-
ing into them, and bumped against stumps and
logs that came forward and met us eagerly.
Meanwhile the steel was biting into our hands,
which were cold as a stepmother’s kiss, and an
extra large flake of snow extinguished our bottle-
lantern. Then we tried to walk through a wire
fence, but altered our minds, and followed it care-
fully back to the blacksmith’s shop. After taking
our bearings, we started afresh, and suddenly
caught sight of the windlass against the skyline,
like the Horseman that Henry Lawson writes
about. Then we sneaked into that shaft before it
had a chance to escape. If it roamed about
hill to keep itself warm any more that night it
took two half-frozen miners with it.
* * m m
“ Flinderino ” : The bush policeman often
finds life dull and monotonous, and he adopts
various methods of making his existence less
miserable. Know one representative of the law,
planted in a microscopic township behind the
mountains, who found himself becoming rusted
and moth-eaten through idleness. His only pos-
sible customer was a Chinaman. Having nothing
better to do, he made a point of running in the
Chow on every shadow of an opportunity, but as
he required only a small quantity of firewood he
was unable to provide his prisoner with constant
wood-chopping exercise. However, he was deter-
mined that the Celestial’s time should not be
wholly wasted, and he thought out an idea where-
by he could give the Chinlde some exercise, and
at the same time occupy himself. Every morning
after breakfast John was summoned from his cell
to do an hour’s military training. With an old
broom-handle for a gun the Mongolian was made
to “Fall in!” “Shoulder Whoop!” “Quick
march !” “Right-about wheel !” and numerous
other manoeuvres. The constable always spoke
of the cell as “ The Barracks.” Every fortnight
or so he would arrest the Chow on a charge of
Sunday trading, or vagrancy, or sweating, or any-
thing he could think of, and put him into bar-
racks for a week’s drill. Before long Johnnie
Atkins made a perfect soldier, and could halt,
charge, form a hollow square, form fours, and fall
over himself as neatly as any Scottish regiment.
A RIME OF BOSKY MOMENTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you wander in the boskage of the bar,
By the tree-ferns and the talking parrot, far
In the lounge’s dim recesses where electric breezes blow ;
When you think it’s time to take your hat and go,
Lest your vagrant fancy land you in disaster with the
maid,
Whom you’ve promised, quite sincerely, that your love
, will never fade,
You may think—“ Why ’m gettin’ boshky —rarsher
hoshky ! ’’—and you are !
When you’ve told her how the tender passion’s fanned
To a blaze inside you : when you’ve grabbed her hand—
Having spent your six ’n’ sixpence on your thirteen drops
o’ bliss—
And you’ve got her bailed for “ jus’ one likkle kiss ” ;
When you’re sure the fair Melinda is a lovely waking
dream,
And you’ll climb across and kiss her if she’ll promise not
to scream,
It may dawn on you “ I’m boshky ! ” And you are —to
beat the band !
When you ask her, in her own, old loving way
To caress you—when you babble bosh, and pray
For a lock of shining top-knot, where the dye is bright
and new—
When you dimly hear her rudely hissing “ Shoo ! ”
When you gurgle in your sleevers over jokes of yester-
year,
And you giggle when you ask yourself to “ ’Ave anuzzer
beer ! ”
P’r’aps you’ll think “ I’m —I’m bo —BOSHKY ! ” And
you’ll find it truth—next day !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) tvill he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accoimpany,
H.R.G., or something like that (Taree): A lot
of people are taking J. 0. Watson’s name in vain. As 4
matter of fact, whilst Tub Bulletin can hardly think of a,
position he would not be suitable for, we know the gentle-
man has made no definite arrangements at all in regard
to his career after leaving Parliament. ..Dux: We re?
buked the editor of The Lone Hand for saying Carbine
was an “ Australian horse ” in view of your assertion that
the nag was a Maorilander. He speciously pleaded that
in this office Maonland and the Commonwealth are looked
upon as so much one that they’re grouped as “ Australia.”
Verdict of acquittal E. J. Taylor : You say this country
doesn’t want Protection ; what it wants is the locking of
the rivers, so that thousands of farms and orchards could
spring up. Then you mention that scores of tons of fruit
already rot in Victoria, and dozens of orchards are
being rooted up. Seems to be some fatal sickness
about your cure Nelson McL. : Rhyming too
faulty ; also in verse four you get down to bathos
Aimee : We’re reluctant to boom goats as a cure fot
phthisis ; but goats’ cream is undoubtedly good (better
than cod-liver oil). The fresh air life that the goat-herd-
ing led to was responsible for the rest of the cure
Albatross: Might go in a quarter its compass.... Lee
Enfield: You mention that the “ rudely ruptured stems ”
of the waratah “ faintly moaned.” Our moaning was not
faint G.G. McC. : One thought:
Though Art be long and Life be brief,
The prize is theirs, who pausing stray ;
For us they bind the bursting sheaf
Of memories gathered by the way.
....W. M. Thomas: Nothing striking in samples sub-
mitted R.S.V.P. : The pimples of adolescence are
nothing to worry about. Don’t take drugs but take
plenty of exercise, and don’t eat too much meat,
or drink over-drawn tea. Attention to your general
health on those lines will help a cure. But
nine youths out of ten suffer in that way
Bosker Bill (and, up to now, 19 others): Can’t start a
discussion on the sanity of those who “ judge ” Limerick
competitions. Men who expected artistic judgment
from people who promote that sort of competition, went
out looking for disappointment Jaysee : Too heavy
for the subject.. . .Lancelot: Don’t wonder at the
anxiety shown by that bushie of whom you asked the
time in Martin-place. As .you say, he probably took you
for a confidence man. The G.P.O. clock has something
to do with the fact that the only ones beside confidence
men who ask strangers the time in Martin-place
are lunatics, blind people, and ladies of dead-
easy virtue Ita: Agree with your ‘‘white Aus-
tralia” views. Indeed, we’ve said ’em all before
Busiq : Can’t trace pictures ; but if they can be judged
by the Bent poem, they probably fell into the basket of
their own accord... .Seecasey: Not quite up; but go
0n... .Rosario : You haven’t the necessary delicacy of
touch P.D.A. : Have some imagination, but the style
is futile and ineffective... .Torquil: The passion is
artificial and unconvincing, the style is tawdry and pre-
tentious, and the syntax is slovenly.. ..Kerrack : Yes ; it
is improved, but is still below print-level H.T.W. :
Broken-backed metre Cintra : The style is good, but
there is no central idea. You don’t get your thoughts
into focus Fitz-E.: Sentiment too cheap and obvious
A.T.F.: True enough, doubtless; but not interesting.
There are many truths which are not interesting
Taniwha : Too jerky and inconsecutive Elleb : Not
amiss, but too long-winded .. .S.P. : Thanks for apprecia-
tion. Sketch not quite well enough done Clarice :
Weak, even for a first attempt Lil Sing: Has some
power, but shows a general lack of skill Dew W. :
“ Moonlight ”is unsatisfactory. The prose yarn has some
merit, but the opium-pipe incident on which it
turns is impossible Maude M. : Very nearly scored
Tubbo : “Snap” has good material, badly
arranged. The other is too crude of execution
W.G. : Unreal and erratic... .Bung : Sincere, but com-
monplace and dull G.R.H. : Labor in vain. You have
absolutely no literary gift G.B. : Unpleasantly sug-
gestive Chummy: It isn’t any better than before
Lancer: Remarkable for nothing but extremely bad
puns.. ..L.R.H. : No purpose ; no point ; no anything!
Saraband : Too illegible to waste time over Jerry
D. : Not funny enough for the subject... .Poor Tom:
Lacks breadth Petrol: Unwholesome in subject,
feeble in treatment... .Cibo : Hopeless... .Elleb : We
can’t keep track of pars in this column. Just watch for
them appearing. Thanks for good wishes... .C.S. : The
Bulletin doesn’t deal in syndicated letters. Syndi-
cate methods are usually unsatisfactory when ap-
plied to business, ghastly when applied to literature
C.S.G. : Didn’t win through... .VY.H.E. : Too long
Jackson: Rimes and persons rocky... .Arranmore:
Rather tired of tender eyes of brown. There are so many
of them about... .The Fool : Hardly that, but—.... J.A.P.
(Papua): Scarcely sufficient interest... .Geraldine : The
facts that it was founded on fact, and that it began at
page four and struggled back to page one, did not stimu-
late us... .John Carrick : The big “R ’’hovered, fluttered,
paused, and pounced... .M.E.L. : “ Gollywog” song
bumps too much... .C.G.T. : Has promise, but is not up
to publication level C.E.D. : Over the bristling hedge
of bad writing, and the erratic confusion of your copy,
we caught a glimpse of possible poetry. But we couldn’t
get over the spiky hedge. At least you are original:
Oh, for a seismograph to furnish
The mystical unlearned letterings
Wrote on the face of Spring’s red soul!
Try us again with “The Rovers” legibly written....
Lewin Crade : Several just missed.... Desunt: Nearly....
Dew W. : Merely nice words E.N.D. : It’s end was
peace. ...L.J.V. : One may, other emphatically mayn’t....
Madeline B. : Oh, all you little girls, don’t write any
more about roses ! P.R. : Even punctuation could not
make “dream” rhyme with “rain.” A. Moore :
How the blood o’ me
Rises a flood ! O, me !
When I hear the bush cooee me !
And you ask us to criticise that! A.P.H. : Smell con-
troversy too dead for resuscitation... .R.W.T. : Parodies
not bad, but we don’t like parodies... .Stingaree:
Yarn re Algernon Codlin-Moth is humorless; all yarns
whose heroes have names like Algernon Codlin-Moth are.
Prologue: No room for backblocks municipal dis-
putes F.C.H. : Your awful picture of the bush girl,
who tells lies, drinks, smokes all she can cadge, and
wears no boots and an ancient flannel shirt instead of a
blouse, is too depraved for the “ Abo.” page. It is also
too lacking- in any semblance of veracity. We like lies in
that page, but they must be bright, believable lies....
Unsuitable: W.M.W., Lela M., Dew. W., A.8.R., Carl
Preston, Oompab, H.F.W., J.W.McO., G.D.H., H.J.W.,
A.G.R., Taiwa, Mrs. Ford, C.K.A., L.R.P., Tom Stanley,
A.G.R., Caro.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
M.E.F.: Picture suggestions unsuitable. The American
tired joke in particular we don’t want transplanted to
strenuous Australia... .Mollie M. : Only one has a hope.
BobS. : Awful drawing, foolish joke Unsuitable:
R.E.8., Miss B.


Qav'A n_ fr*7 ed
Aetermried to }»«+" twft
m'f'a
V qa^^n'Tme-
(A^s)
Kinp Mer»c JiK of
>r«e com|?uiyo''y.
sf*te C*lttC*ho«
t («"')
million .*
v/ere imported l\<,f ye^r-
(DA'iy fa per]
[ooK Oaf!
6cr»l"" — Kow rf?nC you're
oj' as x you le&ye tf)>s
ro-th*> |Hf/« horouoU of yours Ac
Corqe over -fo Wc ! il|
W Wot'rtjp' yo«r wbi It !
< I?«y very Swe&JeJ
'afs ifiey !
" C eK^' n l/ mjectTio^
\"
"OPEt'J 5^ahl!
* iris becoming A
j>r& ch ce Asians
fo descnVe lt)emselves
AS "j>riesfs when .
txyid f>erirjisyoh
to stAy ‘*l ..
Au S trAliA .
fM e )
I
The'toY'’ 1
M&oT©Nji»ie "been n-i'/a x 4ed \>y locust's-
" \\wz>s \ Whod J-ja/e rrre^t -
cv»
’Field rjoT'impl'oVed
JIKC Ot' bowllr7Q
few cndCefers
■for p«rc l°\fe of i+".
or Trevor]
-ii)e fart~
'\{ We l7*\ve SJoI£~CV^ ,e S* ~
W irj f*
*Root"i! !\oom !!.... .
Civl !!!
Tit ConS‘ ,nf >« t ' S<*SorKer were
wa»s Squeezed out"
(A^ r, C Implcvjen")
M*mb+e>' {or C u s + Ohni^
X
/f^ccley
oj- H^h
CURRENT IN VICTORIA.


Dealer: “ Will you take It
with you, Ma’am, or shall
I send it ? ”
Customer: “ Oh, you may
send it, please, by some
trustworthy person. I’m
afraid I should be robbed.”
King Coal indulges In a siesta.
Smoky chimneys cured.
The ancient art of walking will be
rediscovered by the suburbanite.
Priceless adornments, only within the
reach of the rich and powerful.
Owing to a scarcity of fuel, the
ancient custom of burning down a
house to roast a pig will be revived.
RAPID TRANSIT.—A REVIVAL.
Owing to the stoppage of trams and ferry-boats the
owner of a motor-car or boat will have more friends
than he can shake a stick at.
OLD STORY.-NEW VERSION.
“ I cannot tell a He, father, I did it with my little
tomahawk. There was no other fuel to cook
your chops with, and ”
“ Say no more, my child ; if you had lied about
It I should have—eaten the chops all the
same I"
Cutting off the gas supply will bear
hardly on many people, but not all.
IF THE COAL STRIKE CONTINUES.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
In every community it is ;i frequent
occurrence for someone to be burned or scalded.
The best treatment is Chamberlain’s Pain Balm,
which almost instantly relieves the pain, and
quickly heals the injured parts.*
MT p
EPY
M A
a I P
°NO
K >, S
Yg T
MEMORY
MtSNS
MONET*
The Successful Men in
every Business are
those who have
trained their Memory.
No single cause has con-
tributed more to the success
of thousands of business and
professional men and women
all the world over than
THE
Pelman System
... or ...
Memory Training
Taught in Five Easy
Postal Lessons .
Mis.. W. T. Stead says:— 1 “I consider Pelman
a benefactor of the human race,"
Write to-day for free book “Memory
and Success.” Head what the Pelman
System has done for others ; let it do
the samef or you. Address The Secretary,
Pelman School of Memory, 3 Stock
Exchange Building. Melbourne.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Mr. Allan McLean, of Christchurch, Maorl-
land, who died recently, left ap estate valued at
half a million sterling, one-third of which is to be
devoted to making provision for females who are
in need.
Died suddenly, at Sydney, last week, aged
55, Edward Hurley, secretary of N.S.W. Typo-
graphical Association. He learned his trade in
S. M. Herald office. He was Government Print-
ing Office’s rep. on the Typo. Board, and suc-
ceeded good old Charles Jones in the secretary-
ship of the Association.
S. Australian Chief Justice Samuel Way :
I am past the age of bearing arms ; I cannot, perhaps,
serve as a grenadier ; but, although I cannot do that, I
should be glad to offer my body, over which the foreign
invader should first have to pass before an inch of the
Northern Territory should become anything else than
British land.
Those who speculate on Premier Wade’s
chances of succeeding Darley in the Chief-Justice-
ship, should recall that in the nearly ninety years
of the Court’s existence only one politician—
Martin —has passed from the arena of active
politics to the chief seat in the N.S.W. Supreme
Court. Salomons and Darley served in the Legis-
lative Council, but that body is not regarded in
the sphere of militant politics.
The Queenslander has scant honor in his
own State. All but one of the Under Secretaries
of the Government departments, the Government
Analyst, Biologist. Botanist, Entomologist, Fruit
Expert, Health Officers, and the managers of the
nine banks doing business in Queen street, Bris-
bane, were born outside the Northern State.
The Bananalander is also in a minority in the
Ministry ; he’s neither Premier nor leader of the
Opposition (they’re both Scotch), nor Speaker
(he’s Irish), nor Chairman of Committees in the
Assembly (he’s English).
QUITE THE REVERSE.—(With apologies to
Pears’ Soap.)
That, while this conference approves of the principle of
a white Australia from a racial point of view, it considers
the importation of colored labor is necessary for develop-
ment of the tropical territory. —Motion carried at the
Women’s Leagues’ Commonwealth Conference.
TORY FEMALE: “ Here , you're too beastly white
and dean; we must have a daub of dirt
somewhere! ”
Deceased Frank Barnes was a type of the
hard-working, unobtrusive, non-advertising class
of journalist, with an innate love of variety-stage
life. He wrote almost the whole of Brisbane
Boomerang at one time, and lifted Sydney
Sunday Times and Sydney Truth along the road
of popularity in their struggling days. His latest
press work was on the Worker.
“ What did Nash do?” “ Did he do any-
thing?” That is what Victoria wants to know
rnore than anything else just now. Canon Nash,
the Other day, vacated his pulpit in a fashionable
Geelong church, and when a crowd
of earliest Christian admirers, who
flidn’f; know what the good man
hstd donethftthb should leave
the church, feverishly ex-
pressed its belief that he
bouldn’t haVe done it,
anyhow, and asked td
have hini pack, the
Ahlgliban Are li -
bishopsaid “Nay!”
The Canon has alsd
vacated other places
of eminence in con-
nection with the
church, and because
it is not told what
is his offending (if
any), the public is
busy filling the hiatus
from its imagination.
It would have been much
better to have told the
truth at once, whatever
it may be, as rumor, having
got fairly down to busi-
ness, is crediting the poor
canon with more transgres-
sions than any ordinary
arsenal of canons could get
through in a lifetime by
strict attention to pleasure.
Artist Frederick de
Kock, who died at Kensing-
ton (Vic.), last week, aged
64, was a nephew of French
novelist Paul de Kock, who
writes stories of silly pruri-
ency for young people who
don’t and old people who ought
to know better. He was born
in Sumatra, where his father
was Resident - General, and
came to Victoria 27 years ago,
15 of which he painted out in
Bendigo. His strong point
was illuminating, and he did a
lot of that sort of work for Melbourne Univer-
sity and other public institutions.
A hustling democrat passed out at Adelaide,
recently, aged 70. George Henry Buttery was
born in London, where he
learned cabinet-making. In
1860 he was a delegate to
the International Working
Man’s Association, and was
associated with Karl Marx
and Fred Engels, who suc-
ceeded Marx in the practi-
cal leadership of the social
democratic movement. In
1877, Buttery came to IS.A.,
where he worked at his trade
and became representative
of the United Furniture
Trades Society on the Trades
and Labor Council. He was
president of the Council in
1891, in time to live some
strenuous days during the
big maritime strike. He
helped to form the S.A.
United Labor party, and was
placed first in the initial
plebiscite for selection of
Parliamentary Labor candi-
dates, but declined the chance
of becoming a legislato..
Governor Rawson’s al-
leged “shudder” when a
case goes to hangman B ussell
for final treatment isn’t of
much public importance, but
indicates, if true, that he
doesn’t regard executions as
mere official routine. One
N.S. W. Governor had a jest
for such occasions. Governor
Phillip used to signal the
drop with his red pocket
handkerchief, while walking
about on his verandah. Go-
vernor Foveaux presided with
ardent satisfaction at the
executions in his time. The
condemned were allowed to
make speeches then, and
Foveaux used to break in in
contradiction, and if the
wretch didn’t promptly apol-
ogise, he ordered the lever to
be pulled. Once, at Norfolk
Island, the hangman blun
dered, and Foveaux rushed
to his assistance. With his
own hand he launched a pair
of men to the dull thud, and
bragged of his “clean job”
for long after.
Died, last week, Andrew T. Kerr, for 25
years member of N.fci.W. Nominee Chamber, and
a large squatter m the Orange district, which dis-
trict he represented 30 years ago in the Assembly.
The death notice in the papers was the first inti-
mation the majority of the public had that there
was an M.L.C. of the name.
The original Thomas Arndell, whose 83-
years-old descendant died last week at Windsor
(N.S.W.), had a long and pitiful squabble with
the British Exchequer over a small pension claim.
He had given up his Government billet of surgeon
to the Sydney garrison and settled down as
farmer at Windsor, relying on his Imperial pen-
sion to help things out. But one year the Home
authorities dropped his name off the pension list
without assigning any reason (it was probably on
account of his Governor Bligh sentiments). It
took six years battling with the Exchequer before
the debt due was paid, and in the meantime the old
ex-surgeon had gone through most of the miseries
of the newchum farmer.
Six men took part in the Sydney negotia-
tions that ended last week in Premier Wade draw .
ing up a basis for another meeting between the
Newcastle strikers and the mine-owners. Wade
was backed up by Ashton, who .humps a good
load for an honorary Minister (he has an office in
the Attorney-General’s Department) ; Living-
stone Learmonth was the mouthpiece of the
owners, and city-solicitor “Ted” Simpson was
with him as headpiece; while Peter Bowling
talked for the miners, and had Amram Lewis as his
second. Lewis holds what funds the coalminers
have saved up in their stocking. Learmonth is
grand paniandrum at Newcastle for the A. A. Co.,
and lives out on a fragment of that tremendous
absentee’s coal estate beyond Mayfield, near New-
castle. This is the first big trouble he has had to
handle since he succeeded to old Jesse Gregson’s
job.
Ex-Senafcor Higgs definitely starts business
in Sydney as an auctioneer and estate agent. His
first commission is from the Queensland Govern-
ment to act as agent for the sale of Crown lands.
“ RUBBISHOH!”
KAISER WILLIAM (cleaning up his Court yard):
“ Pooh! The divinity that doth hedge a king
smells devilishly like the other thing at times.”
The N.S.W. Arbitration Court is liable to
have its findings presented in tripping verse now.
Thomas E. Spencer has been chosen employers’
representative, vice J. P. Wright, sick ; and T.
E. Spencer is the man who told “How
McDougall topped the score.”
Died in Paris, last month, Fred Keller-
mann, husband of Madame Charbonnet-Keller-
mann, andfatherof AnnetteKellermann, champion
lady swimmer. He was at one time in N.S.W.
Public Service, but when his wife was leader of
Sydney’s musical profession, he devoted his time
to managing for her. The old Quintette Society
was due to his energy. A few years ago the for-
tunes of the family were in low water, but all
hands swam into affluence again on Annette’s
prowess.
Late Andrew Taylor Kerr’s father was super
to an estate belonging to the energetic blacksmith
parson, Samuel Marsden, and in time became
himself a property-owner. It was on his ground
that the famous big nugget was found by a black-
fellow. The nugget with two smaller pieces found
alongside gave about 19300 z. gold, and was claimed
by the Government. The demand led to much
wrangling, but was ultimately settled in
favor of Kerr. Kerr gave the aborigine 200
sheep as a quittance in full, and the gold went
to establish the Kerrs as bush potentates.
A. I. Clark, who died suddenly at Hobart,
last week, would possibly have been on the High
Court Bench had not his health of late been un-
certain. He was one of the great constitutional
lawyers of Australia, and had a dearer title to
esteem in his robust faith in Australia. It is not
now injudicious to state that The Bulletin was
often indebted to Mr. Clark for an opinion on
constitutional law points. The deceased Judge
exercised throughout his life a strong influence on
the development of Australian Nationalism.
Late Justice A. Inglis Clark possessed a
very small head, and his hatter often used this
fact to explode the fallacious argument that a
man with a large head necessarily had the most
brains. He said that the deceased Judge had the
smallest head he ever made “lids” for. Of
Clark’s sons, one is studying architecture in Phila-
delphia, in U.S.A., and another is a graduate
in Law of the University of Tasmania. The
Judge himself was a very reserved man, seldom
appearing in public. He was a good chess
player ; and it was at his house that Premier
Deakin always stayed when he visited Tasmania.
N.S.W. Premier Wade, who has taken in
hand the two parties to the Newcastle miners’
strike, knows more than most lawyers do about
mining. He was born among the coal at Single-
ton, and his father was a civil engineer who talked
coal and the safe way to win it. ITor many years
Premier Wade has had briefs in most of the
N.S.W. cases that have come from underground ;
and when, after the disastrous cave-in at the
Broken Hill South mine, a Commission was
appointed to inquire how it happened, Wade
carried through the largely-technical job single-
handed ; and he has done the same with several
inquiries regarding the Coal Mines Kegulation
Act.
James Curley, who has had a front seat in
every Newcastle labor trouble for a generation, is
standing out of this one—for the time being, any-
way. Before the pay question began to look like
bubbling over, a Commission was appointed to
find out whether the electrically-driven coal-cut-
ting machines were liable to turn themselves into
bombs at Hebburn colliery, as the miners alleged.
It was a big question, and practically involves the
restriction of the use of machines; and Curley,
as the man who knows better how to hold
the miners’ end up on a job of this _ sort
than probably anybody else, was asked to sit on
the Commission—along with Judge Murray and a
mine-manager. So, as Curley was doing semi-
judicial work, it was suggested that he ought to
stand out of the strike business ; and Brennan, a
younger man, and a membei the miners
general committee of managem vas drafted
into his office. Now the Sea I aen, among
others, have nominated Brennan for the office as a
fixture.
Louis Brennan who, it is reported, is to
receive £60,000 to carry on his monoline railway
experiments, is the youngest of three brothers,
natives of Castlebar, Ireland. Michael, the
eldest, showed a taste for art, and was taken up by
a few appreciative wealthy people, who sent him
to Italy to study. He died there just as he began
to do well. The second brother, Patrick, emigrated
to Victoria. He became a schoolmaster there,
and invited Louis out to share his good luck.
Louis had plenty of trials, but can afford now to
laugh at the memory of them. He talks affection-
ately of Victoria and of the men who stood to him
iii dark times.
A thoroughly Australian Christmas gift
for a friend subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep your friend
Current with Australian life.
£< Melb.” : I have not heard a more valu-
able lecture than that by W. H. Edgar, M.L.C.,
on his trip of over 500 miles along the Murray
from Echuca to Mildura and Wentworth -with
the Parliamentarians. The National Government
ought to employ a lecturer to go all over Aus-
tralia with a discourse on the Murray from source
to sea. The party left Echuca in two river
steamers. “ The Murray is a revelation,” says
Edgar. He carried our thoughts to the river as
an emblem of national and individual life.
(Remember how superbly Frank Myers wrote of
Kosciusko.) His vision swept over the sources of
the Murray. Like the young Rhine, it has a
wild and rocky course, with picturesque scenery,
beauteous cataracts, and so on. Here you see
fanciful youth, as of the Australian nation, or
of any man. Towards Albury the Hume, Indi,
or Murray settles down to its purpose in life.
It is only a Yarra as yet, but what reinforcements
are to come ! The Murrumbidgee, Darling, Lach-
lan, Campaspe, Goulburn, Loddon, Ovens, and
other streams pour in. You think of the affluents
which have come into this nation, with the
development of its wool, gold, etc. Oh, the
Murray is our sermon ! Let us worship
it with a devotion equal to that of the Egyptians
for their Nile, the Hindus for their Ganges.
I relish lecturer Edgar because he sticks up for the
Murray. Not one word of detraction. As the
man said of his mistress : “ I love her even for her
dear, delightful faults.”
THE LATE MR. JUSTICE A. I. CLARK.
(A good Judge and a good Australian.)
Photo, by Kerry & Co., Sydney.
In Australia Cousin Jacks show a morbid
partiality to corpse. In towns where Tre, Pol
and Pen abound the Dead March in “Saul’ is
preferred to dance music. Sunday is the
fashionable day for the burial ceremony, the
“expired ” being always detained (w.p.) until the
first day of the week. Should the “departed”
decline to remain, the mines declare a half-
holiday, and the shops put up their shutters, for
no one is allowed to pass through the Pearly
Grates without a good send-off. What a daughter’s
marriage is to a Hindu, that is a family funeral to
Cousin John.


*
S>
P
00,
P
3
Ol
3
p
*
p
3
3
o
p
00,
0
0
a
3
a
a
>
w
r
o
o
5*
H
o
tr
p
o
o
o
C 0
0
0
?
ft
(0
sr
ft
sr
0
c
(0
0


<?>
A
A
f. He*
*
✓
*
Q,
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY BRANDY
EST. 1818.
Known all over the
World.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg:, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld..
' Sydney and Melbourne.
eauty is Yours.— To some few women whom
Nature has made beautiful the great question is how
best to preserve their beauty. To others it is how
beauty may be theirs. The same solution stands in
either case—VALAZE. Valaze gives to its every user
the soft, clear complexion—it extracts the impurities
that stifle and clog the skin pores, and renews their
natural activity. Wrinkles, Crow’s-feet, Sallowness,
Freckles, and Tan cannot be where Yalaze is regularly
used. Valaze is guaranteed not to encourage the growth
of hair. 3/6 and 6/6 a jar ; postage, 6d. extra. Valaze
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure closes all open pores,
removes blackheads, excellent for greasy skins, never
fails in even the most obstinate case. 2/6, posted 3/-.
Valaze Herbal Soap, 2/- cake, posted 2/2. All Valaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading Chemists, or direct
from Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, 168 Pitt-street, Sydney, and at 9 Brandon-street
Wellington, N.Z.*
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 19, 1907.
My Dear Arint,—
“Iwish you would come and see me Presented
° j rt next Wedn esday,” wrote my friend
My dressmaker presents me. I won’t pay her
for the gown I should have worn at one of the
Spring meets. She has tinkered at it so often try-
ing to make it a fit, that it now looks like a reach-
me-down. She says she can’t afford to lose
fourteen guineas. I’m sure I can’t afford to give
her that sum for a thing I’d certainly stuff with
rags and straw and put in the cherry-
tree to keep the sparrows off the young
fruit, lsn t fourteen guineas too much to pay
or a scarecrow . Besides, as it’s got no sleeves,
it coutdn t wave its arms at the birds, and the
wind would soon take the sting out of its chiffon
tan. As you are like a bat at noontide when find-
ing your way around strange places, be sure to
ask a policeman for the right Court.”
• * ask a Policeman, and, instead of follow-
ng the fortunes of a misfit in gowns, I found
myself watching the adjustment of misfits in
matrimony. I was in the Divorce Court. A woman
near me indicated the parties to the suit. The
r i’ a Fu Gt l ty ’ car ;e fu ll.y-dre.ssecl little woman
in the ea,rly thirties; the respondent, a good look-
ing, intelligent varlet in the late forties ;the co-re
a lady chimpanzee in the middle fifties. The
the guilty P a ir,” as an evening paper
called them, met twice or thrice in glances of
mutual trustful understanding. “ The morrow is
ours was the message on their eyebeams. Pre-
nnnS th f * hree - corn ered proposition was post-
cl,W n°ir rt ' and another came in - In this
P et^? onm & P art y was the husband, an
agreeable-looking man. His responding wife was
a handsome woman, and the co-re. was a cross be-
tween a battered jockey and a dingo. He cringed
piteously. A writer on one of the dailies was
leaving tnecourt when I did. In reply to a perplexed
comment he said, “Seven times out of ten the
T n T woma “ looks like something one
wouldn’t pick out of Gehenna-or off a dust
heap. . . One point... the male co-re. generally
cringes the female one never does.” y
c„H U ?i S !il OnS were boiling in my brain pan. I pre-
sented the whole lot to a young littery P jent. in P his
lone lair. He said he was greatly flattered at mv
nnstaking him for Providence. He had an idea
his disguise was so perfect as to take me in. AH
of\r e At h * Wa f? f hlBda y for solving the Riddles
rAhl • ° no blt of bait he did
rise to that re the cringing co-re. “No man
to hfi position,” he said, “ has ever seemed to me
to have taken up an adequate pose. To what
splendid heights he might lift his treason, if, Ser
being asked for five thousand pounds damages he
had gone into the box, and looking around the
genUeme y TTn a / *«?’ ‘ Flve thou^and pounds?
gentlemen . Under the circumstances, the sum
s misera.bly inadequate. A million would not
won fro o m°him?”» Bate the pet,tloner for wha t I have
If that had been said ages ago—or ever the
knightly years were gone with the old world to the
grave by some Egyptian, or Greek, or Roman
lover before his country’s tribunal, his name and
superb insolence would have come down to U s
enshrined in writer’s amber.
But the questions go on boiling. If the hand
some woman and the battered jockey-cumSo
had met whilst both were free would r f g
h„ve taken each other for better 3for nYw™
Evidence had brought out the fact that fo^
12 years the woman was a devoted wife and
ot L e r her , h ° PeS . and loves b by her
cottage garden. On a day she, ridinj on
a bus, dropped her hanky. Theiockev
dingo party recovered it, and handed i{ back'
That was their first meeting. No wo2
the ancients exalted Chance into a diSty"
sides—erring woman and ermnTrnT o°e
accepts and telerates-littie more. But Vhe Iran/
forming quality of the woman’s FT'
saw the forlorn, uncouth stranger ‘letters
were the proofs) as one with a form «f Sace
i° f ri beau u ty ’- lips that charmed, mf aim
ofsteel and a brain of resource. The spiritual
element in her seemed to develon with Xf * 1
gress of the affaire and if she had had extra
tuppence worth of education, her letters woißd
have been of the liberal-education order He
probably was thinking of beer. And all this goes
to prove that every woman is at the mercy of a
certain type of man. nercy or a
But really I must find out how it
dressmaker Wh ° W “ PreSented at Courfc b y her
HeisaTos? mSypiS? 3X
bishop Clarke is mysteriously silent exoent f '
stating that he had only asked for
resign the canonry of the Cathedral' Na a\u t 0
parson had insisted on resigning the t-V, , nd , tbe
Mrs. Nash was a Miss pferce, "f Sydney a ’T'
tive of the clerical Bangleys ' Shell. y ’ a re f a *
looking, and has five smaU‘children g °° d "
is devoted to her. But she is rather el X*
Judge Molesworth’s widow, who is veiv?^
the archbishopric premises. People affect pf°a
reasons m this. The • attect to find
end tlie parson not of the submissive sSJV“'sS’the
gaSmilT fr ‘“ ds 0f th » Neshtote
And forecast:
The man recovered from the wound
His Grace it was that died
p.& ' r t t,o v M
is &
open Sydney a, ObnS&TOh Setme
a us when she was blowing around
with Waldron’s “Squaw Man” Co., and it’s good
news that she’s coming back to be leading woman
in the Julius Knight Co.
. announces herself as very home-
31C, " e P'ece she appeared in proved a frost—
and there was already enough of that in the
atmosphere.
Ihe J. C. Williamsons left London for New
y ork and Chicago on October 18, and whether
they return to Australia direct from America, or
go back to London and sprint from there, depends
mainly on the quality of the American winter.
Mr. Robertson Clarke, who has been for some
years on the staff of State Governor Rawson,
leaves for .England on Saturday.
Ml >, ® dv y in Geach, just back from Auckland,
says that the Dominion took to “Mr. Hopkin-
son like a total abstainer to plum pudding and
brandy sauce At the close of W. and W.’s short
season in Melbourne, Miss Grace Palotta will go
to Monte Carlo for a rest —and excitement.
Lady Godiva rode at Wonderland, according
to promise, on Wednesday night; but the rain,
which falls impartially on the dressed and un-
dressed (if the latter chances to be out in it)
started a few minutes before the undressed
act. It was wonderful how small a quantity of
the gentle ram from Heaven it took to scatter the
large quantity of amorous youth and foolish virgin
that stood at gaze waiting for the lady in white
clinging tights and flowing hair. A few months
ago the lady got married. A wedded Yenus, like
a dressed one, seems an anomaly.
If one of the beery brigands who are understood
to write most of the soft and soulful penny novel-
ettes for young ladies had the naming of the
leaders of the strike ructions at Newcastle, he
couldn t have done better than Livingstone Lear-
month and Peter Bowling. Livingstone Lear-
month—who is the coal-owners’ mouthpiece, of
course—-would in the penny novelette marry
Lady Geraldine, and do Noble Deeds; while
f™ er r ) B0 '!iJ n F’ coal-miner, might do almost
any dreadful thing. Peter, in real life is
however a very domesticated apostle. A reporter
° f mme, from Sydney, went to the New-
castle Trades Hall with another reporter friend
who comes from the outer darkness of Melbourne
and tried to find the man whom the Sydney
papers call ‘ the boss of the miners.” “Let’s
see, said the Melbourne barbarian, “what’s Mr
Bowlings front name?” The lesser miners’
othciai who was giving out information turned
pale under his coating of coal-dust and soot.
Wh-a-a-t! he gasped, after a while. “Doesn’t
everybody know his name is Peter? ” But he had
his revenge. As Mr. Bowling wasn’t at the
Trades Hafl, he would probably be at home.
And where was his home? “Go along about a
mile, and anybody will tell you where Peter
Bowling lives. They found where he lived all
right, but lie wasn’t at home—he had just run out
to a neighbor s. And as the reporters set forth to
track him down, they heard something like a
moan from within—“ And he hasn’t got a collar
Nance O’Neil, writing to a Sydneysider, men-
tioned that she was to play the gloomy “Leah
the Forsaken, supported by McKee Rankin, at
Pittsburg, the place with iron in its soul.
New York Dramatic Mirror says that im-
presario W. A. Brady has brought suit for 81450
against George Musgrove, an Australian manager
for royalties for the use of “ Pretty ” Mr’
Brady claims that Nellie Stewart played” the r6le
about 300 times in Australia without paving
royalties. J s
Lucky owner Clelland, of the victorious Apo
logue animal, used to be a bootmaker in Auck-
land. From bootmaking he rose—or fell—to
bookmaking, and is a very rich citizen, with a lot
•f property.
Talking of Maorilanders: a prismatic bunch
passed through Sydney a week or so ago en
route for Ward’s own country. It belonged to
Mn Dennis O’Rourke (son of ex-Speaker Maurice
ORourke) and consisted of his wife and five
children. The bunch has been in Europe for
some years Pa wore the latest King Edward
clothes, and had his trousers turned up (our drought
is only of four months’ duration) and his three
schoolboy sons wore equally amazingly faultless
clothes, smaller copies of Pa’s, and had their
pants turned up. O’Rourke married a hugely
rich Christchurch heiress. The inhabitant! of
the flat-place call it Ch. Ch., as if it were two
snorts from a motor car. He is or was the best
amateur jockey in Maoriland.
Another returned Maorilander—he is not a
returned empty either, for he’s been telling the
Herald splendid guff about Siberia—is Mr
G. W. Patterson. He calls himself Major Pat-
terson. Suppose he does major at something, but
he s mostly a reputable gum merchant with a
flourishing gum store. Author and poet J L
Kelly, who has been doing work abroad for "the
Dominion, has also been in Sydney, and the
Mills, returned by the beautiful new Union liner
Marama, are getting all that’s coming to them in
Dunedin.
Cathedral, London, on Oct. 9
Mr. W. L. Robertson (of George Thompson and
Go. London) was married to Miss Mavis Jean I
Anderson, second daughter of Mr. Charles Ander-
son (C. Anderson and Co. Ltd.), of Durham Hill
Albion-street, Sydney. Bride was given away bv
her brother; a reception at the Hotel Cecil and a
honeymoon abroad followed. The happy brace
will visit Australia in the bright bv-and-bye. It’s
up to every Australian girl who marries abroad to
bring her trophy to her own land—on at least a
visit.
Madge Corcoran, a Melbourne girl who has
been playing in drama in the U.S.A. for some
years, has lost her voice through a railway collision
She was travelling to Washington to open in a new
piece, and at Baltimore her train ran into another
that was being side-tracked. Passengers, fearing
that the boilers of the engine would explode ran
out into a heavy rain storm. When, some hours
later, Miss Corcoran reached her destination she
was speechless, and, continuing in that state she
had to return to New York.
From James Edmond, at Lake Manapouri, in
Maoriland:—
Left Dunedin on the 6th, by the alleged express,
for Gore, and thence I proceeded by a series of
short jumps in the wallaby-train that leaps glee-
fully along the little 3ft. 6in. railway to Lumsden.
Lumsden sleeps amid the grass on the Waimea Plains,
and Maoriland steps softly so as not to waken it. On the
7th, a red-painted buggy and a large horse and a small
one took me 53 miles across a wild country and dropped
me here.
There is a big lake in front of the window. There are
32 islands in the big deep lake. There are snow-topped
mountains all round the big deep, damp blue lake. The
sun set behind the snow-toppedest of them last night,
and the snow was red—bright red, like the color of the
language of the man who backed the second horse. This
morning the sun rose behind the second snow-toppedest
range, and the second snow-toppedest range threw
a shadow like a priest’s clothes across the lake on to the
snow-toppedest range,-so that it was dazzling white on
the roof of things and black below. Then the white roof
of things became pink, and after that it became reddish,
like the painted blush on the face of the frisker of Baby-
lon, and after that again it became various ; and just
while it was various, and I was wondering hard how
various it might become, someone rang the breakfast-bell
and said something about ham and eggs.
The lake is blue. There is more water flowing into it
than into any other Maoriland lake. There ig more water
flowing out of it than out of any other Maoriland lake.
The water is in a hurry. It is full of fish. It is nearly
1500 feet deep in places. It foams like the sea when the
south wind (or else the north or west or east wind) goes
across it like a ghost dragging a barrow. And all
round this lake the mountains stand up perpendicularly
like a thousand pyramids with pallid washing on top.
There are trees wherever things aren’t so vertical that
the trees can’t hang, and in many places where things are
so absolutely vertical that nothing could ever hang—not
even the dead body of Judas Iscariot—the trees hang just
the same. They do it out of cussedness, and cussedness
is greater than gravitation. To-day the Government
steam-launch took me out in solitary state, and
showed me all this magnificence for hours and hours—
showed me the kingdoms of the earth and the glory
thereof, even as the Devil did to the Redeemer in the
Scripture—all for 12s. 6d. Amid the immortal silences we
ate corned beef sandwiches, and where the works of God
were thickest we boiled the billy.
There are sandflies at the head of the lake. They ate
two artists yesterday, likewise their tent, baggage, boat,
clothes, and cooking utensils. These artists had gone up
the lake to camp out for six weeks, and our captain
put in at the bay, where he thought they
should be, to ask how they felt. They weren’t
there, but a dead camp-fire was present. I'know the
sandflies ate them. I saw one sandfly wearing a hat that
didn’t belong to him, and another had an unfinished oil-
painting under his arm.
I am going to fetch this lake away under my arm when
I leave. It is the sort of thing which makes stealing
justifiable.
The Villeneuve-Smiths are on their way back to
Sydney; so are Mrs. Jack Want and her daughter.
The Colin Stephens go hence for a European trip
early next year.
Messrs. Southwell and Lenimone are in Mel-
bourne riding the breakers, so to speak, of the tide
of Melba’s concert booking. Seats for the first
concert and more than half those forthesecond were
sold out before three o’clock on the day the plan
was opened. Melba sings here on the 10th and
14th of December.
The “Freddie” Shipmans, perhaps the best-
liked brace of Americans that ever walked up
to the Sydney goods counter, are leaving by
Saturday’s liner en route for India. Mister has
run several showand lyric ventures on thesesmiling
shores, and pretty little Missus’s clothes were as
smart as her talk If Providence only knew His
business He would have left us the Shipmans and
taken (Find the missing word.)
Mosman Musical Society, under the baton of
■M-D A. H. Norman, gave a capital performance
of “Judas Maccabseus ” last week. Miss Rivers,
Mr. Crabtree, and Mr. Beattie were the principals!
and the Mosmanites filled the hall to overflowing!
Miss Ora Bensusan, a sister of Miss Inez Ben-
susan, who played awhile here with Nance O’Neil
and the “What Happened to Jones” Co., married
an American citizen last month in Milan.
Storks, and waterlilies, and their foliag*
are the make-up of the ornamentation of the
memorial fountain to the late Robert Brough,
unveiled yesterday in the grounds of the Sydney
Hospital. It is a gracefully-built water caster
and water carrier, and casteth its spray like the
quality of mercy. “In Memory of Robert
Brough ” is the simple and sufficient inscription it
carries. Premier Wade and Mr. Ramaciotti
made speeches—the eulogy and threnody dex-
terously combined—and Mrs. Brough, her sisters,
and quite a number of theatrical managers were
auditors.
Lady Doughty (late colleague “Tryphena,”
of Melbourne) seems to have started the crowded
hour of glorious life that the poet avers to be worth
an age without a name. Her husband, as a recog-
nised force in English politics and a great fighting
speaker on the Conservative side, has to do a con-
siderable quantity of travelling and speaking all
over England. His party always makes arrange-
ments for the lady to week-end with the wife
of another member of the party. Sir Charles
Cayzer. also a giant in the ship-owning line, who
best-manned our friend’s knight at his wedding,
has been entertaining them at his place in Scot-
land. Of the English women the Australienne
has met, the Countess of Yarborough, whose cas-
tellated humpy is in the Doughty vicinity, seems
to have impressed her most in the matter of men-
tality, manners, and inches and sport. As the
Yarborough earl is sick, his wife is determined to
bring him out here for a trip as soon as he can
stand the voyage. A wise proceeding. We are
always glad to welcome clever, sporty people
whether they have coronets on their blueys or
not.
Two Sydney girls, each a beauty in her way,
have been widowed within the month, and both
aren’t beyond the third year of their twenties—
Mrs. George Gaden, who is one of Mr. Sam
Hordern’s daughters, and Mrs. Nisbet, a daughter
of Mr. Baxter Bruce, the solicitor. Mrs. Gaden
left by the China to join her mother in London.
Lady Northcote bought a number of Miss
Rout’s artistically gotten-up booklets at the
Women’s Work Exhibition. Miss Rout is a
Maorilander, from Christchurch, with a lot of
imagination, a good literary taste in selection,
and a fine color sense, and all these values she has
worked into her exhibit. The paper of the book-
lets is hand-made, in shades of old rose, subdued
greens, daffodil—indeed, every fair tone. The
literary extracts—prose and poetry—Miss Rout
herself has typed in colored inks, and she has
bound the achievements sometimes in silk, oftener
in the jewel and flower-hued rough paper.
Excellencette Rawson’s At Home last Thursday
to the committee and principal workers for the
Exhibition about marks the finality of the enter-
prise. It will close at the end of the present
month. Miss Rawson presented Mr. Somer, the
hon. general manager of the Exhibition, with a
piece of plate. The illuminated address that kept
it company had been wrought with dainty skill
by Miss Wilson.
Mr. Claude McKay, of Sydney D.T., marries,
early in the new year, that pretty little artiste,
Miss Dorothy Sidney, of the Julius Knight Co.
She is a dark, brilliant-eyed young party, and
much-travelled for her age. Her father is a well-
known London stage manager, who, amongst his
other achievements, staged Coquelin’s repertoire
when the famous Froggy actor played in England.
Dr. Cohen, at one time a pet physician at St.
Vincent’s Hospital, has returned from foreign
parts, and is being congratulated on his engage-
ment to Nurse Chilcott, a Sydney girl.
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Mylius left for England
by the China after a two years’ visit to this sunny
land. Mrs. Mylius is a sister of Mrs. Ambrose
Pratt and Mrs. Harry Austin.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
The long-looked-for Chelmsford party came off last
Wednesday week. A chill affair it was, distinguished mainly
by the absence of two semi-notables, who, with a rare
naivete, hastened to advertise the fact that they hadn’t
received invitations, in next morning’s Courier. About
400 elderly people turned up, and wandered dazedly
about the brilliantly-illuminated grounds, regret-
ting that they had left their smoked glasses
at home. The Chelmsford dame, in a white satin
robe that gave her the appearance of an icicle trying
to be amiable, received and welcomed the guests, who
then made with haste for more or less shady corners in
which to recount to each other the stories of their lives.
There was a stand-up supper, and just as the atmosphere
promised to brighten somewhat, “Gor’ Save” blared
significantly, whereat the cloakrooms promptly took on
the semblance of so many free-lunch counters.
The official dinner, a night or two earlier in the week,
was a far cheerier gathering.
The Governor and his wife, with their eldest daughter
and Captain Verney in tow, witnessed “The Three
Graces,” and various ballets, by the pupils of Mrs. Mason
Beatty, at His Majesty’s, on Friday evening. There was
a full house. Mr. and Mrs. Geo. Eddington brought their
chick, and Mrs. Herbert Perry, just back from the
Killarney Springs, arrived with her two sons. A perfect
bed of Flowers sprouted in one part of the auditorium,
also a couple of Frosts and the usual Hopkinses, Smiths,
Joneses; likewise the major portion of the Marks and the
Corrie clans. .
The Queensland contingent is leaving England in great
numbers. Mrs. Hanbury has -flitted Continentwards.
And Dr. and Mrs. Robertson arrive amongst their native
bananas once more by the next mail-boat.
From “ Rosna,” Adelaide :
We were all Butt last week, and are still gasping, not
only at the Voice, but the wondrous complexion, eyes,
frocks, grace, and husband that accompany the Voice.
One day they went along to applaud their compatriots at
cricket, and the compatriots returned the compliment by
going in a body to the first concert. That was not as
thronged as the following two, but then it was a public
holiday, when much of the peerage stays in its moated
grange for fear of being jostled by the vulgar throng.
Government House was represented by Miss Clowes and
Lieutenant Boddam-Whettom ; also, there were present
the Chief Justice Ways, the Conservatorium Bevans
Josiah Symon and a daughter, the Lancelot Stirlings’
Miss Hack, Mrs. Robert Kyffin Thomas and some
daughters, and the usual throng of musical folk. The
Ways, Bevans, and many more of the same crowd flocked
to the second concert, which was packed to the doors.
At the Lyric Club evening, arranged bv her chum and
ex-fellow student, Mrs. Fox, Mrs. Clara Butt wore a
chiffony gold and white frock, narrow gold velvet twined
in her black locks, and great gold hoops in her ears. She
trailed in, booming a melodious word or two to President
Bass 6, and attended by secretary Ibbs, one of the Taits
and Mr. Kennerley Rumford. The contralto’s jolly smile
becomes nothing less than a beam when she looks at her
nice, tall, brown husband. The two of them sat together
and applauded the performance generally, and at the end
were carried off to supper in the club’s pretty drawing-
room. 6
Julius Knight caught a visit from the influenza
nond in Adelaide, but in spite of a throat that cjrew
huskier and huskier, struggled on to the end of the
season.
That clever kiddy, little Helen Andrews, had a concert
at Woodville, the other evening, and drew’ a thronged
and enthusiastic house. The infant, who is not more than
eight at the outside, has been studying dancing and
dramatic art in Sydney, and is already a wonderful little
actress. She is a pretty, unspoiled, natural infant, too,
with heaps of originality to help her.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
A thoroughly Australian Christmas gift
for a friend abroad—a subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep your friend
current with Australian life.
“ Micawber ” describes a street idyll
• 1 P a T u d fche P, ost office at 7 p.m., Rocko, bedight
in shrewdy hat and massive buttonhole, was waiting
at the corner. *
“ You must be going to see her to-night?” I said,
too & h, * n h k? Bet yer life lam! An she’sablitherer
too. Wa ton the other side of the road till she comes
along an see what yer think of yer ’umble's picking.”
otm'v ld nr Wait \.}? ufc ha,f -an-hour afterwards saw Rocko
st « w dlng n P the post. He produced an uneasy smile.
Bhmey wot a mug I am ! She said ’arf past, an’ I
was here at seven. Made a ’ell of a mess of it 1 ”
I knew he, lied, but said nothing.
an? n ,nd - She won’t come up if she seas me
awaj”” ter a yb ° dy ’ shes on th ’ dead level. Go right
At eight the lover was still keeping his lonely vigil. He
He*grevv confiding. Ull ' V ° f be 6r ’ a ° d his s P eech waa thick.
Got ter meet a tart at eight. She’s a boshter. Met
onVh’To n e th;^ 0n w >n (hic) ’ She ’ s -i ust th’thing
on th toe (hie). Her old bloke’s well in. I put in some
good work, I tell yer. Promised ter meet her at seven
ter-night. Not (hie) sev’n yet, is’t ? ”
“ Seven ! It’s quarter-past eight.”
His magnificent composure gave way.
“ Quarter past, j'er say.” (A pause.) “ Bli’me 1 The
cows scaled me An’l thought I wins the glassy agate
with er. By ell somebody ’ll pay fer this.” He grew
mose , and then came the heart-cry of anguish : “I
wouldna minded (hie) so much, on’y I paid th’ ’a
fare’ome from Cion, on Sund’y.”


Dumuop
/
*
A 6t*r little Jacrien fa*
Once bought inferior Hagt ,
Z n< m
,
. T
~ A ' cf^ t ■
<'ov‘. ** „ rtof c
cfc*'-',
V,
ii« : (
c-\l
m
LA?
“ t
;- .ri
HOSE]
IS ALWAYS RELIABLE.
Does Not KinK. or Durst
and Lasts for Years.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brands.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STORES.
'Section Posted on Application.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER. CO-
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth.
Brisbane, and Christchurch. NJL
DUNLOP
MOTOR
TYRES
a
Give the longest wear
on Australian roads.
ALWAYS RELIABLE. ALWAYS DURABLE.
REPAIRS and RE-TREADINQ
a Speciality.
®** r Artistic Motor Booklet should be Ih
the hands of every Motorist.-Posted on
Application.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
By 2"sZ* “‘‘•'■ws, Perth.
Brisbane, and Ghrlstoburoh, NX
f
VTTa
Hi
&
COfttfEXS
' 6VITE -NE.W-
JTYILUMHL
r .the "m
YTORLD’Jf
fell
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne November 18, 1907.
-Vly Dear Yarrie, —
. Nowadays the State Parliament doesn’t look
the federal side of the road, on high days. The
gentlemen who represent suburbs show hoity-
toity airs to the rulers of the nation, and when “a
social gathering” (I hate Suburbia’s way of speaking
“ gatherings”; as if a tea-party were something
ot the nature of a whitlow !) comes, Federal mem-
bers are never invited to enliven it. The reason
ot this unbrotherly coolness is the wicked nephew
ot Aunty-Sosh—otherwise the Labor party. When
invitations to come along and fight for a cup of
coot tea and a cheese sandwich were sent by the
State to the Nation, the unattached, lonely, un-
sociable Socialist occasionally handed his card
over to his industrious landladv, or an unassuming
relation. When the proxy joined in the food-
tray and hand-touching contest, she was recog-
nised by Mrs. Suburbia as an old associate—a
relic of dead days, when Mrs. S. used to do her
own washing, and sometimes borrowed a cup of
sugar or a knob of blue over the back-fence of her
next-door neighbor. Mrs. Suburbia complained
eCfclVe lord thilt “ most undesirable
P.P W( ? re gaming access to the sacred
testivities-in fact, an artisan’s wife had rubbed
shoulders with her. (Oh ! dreadful-it was bad
enough to come m contact with such people before
Mr. Suburbia gave up day-labor in favor of small
contracts and the local council—but now!) That
settled it—the Federal member will never more re-
ceive at the hands of the State member an
opportunity to prove his democratic belief that
ilrs. Smith is fit, on the grounds of common
womanhood, to encounter Volunteer Colonel De
Smythe s lady over a tea-table provided by the
Government. Aie! but it’s a sore trial to
memor -y of its single-fronted,
eather-board past in the small streets which are
popularly supposed to supply Labor members to
the country.
ivJ h ®m“ A n CientB ” ? f :‘ The Pres.’’-otherwise
collegians of the Presbyterian Ladies
College—broke into a real spr,ee on Saturday after-
noon with a garden party, etc. (there was quite a
lot of etcetera). The greatest of the “ Old Girls,”
Madame Melba was a sort of hostessed hostess.
She and was received. Officials placed
the famous Old Girl on the platform of the
g at iu and made P rett y speeches to her what
time Melba gazed round the familiar schoolroom
nn,l cwf fai rly dazzhng with impish memories
. miles. Melba had “ made ” an answering
speech—a touching and very womanly speech—
which she asked Mr. Ewing to voice for her
A ter this ceremony the committee of the
collegians (a bird-of-paradise set of “Old Girls”
now handsome Melbourne matrons) had tea on
the lawn under the trees.
1 afternoon’s programme before-
hand, Melba said, “For Heavens sake—no music;
let s have an Aunt Sally.” “ Aunt Sally ” was the
iiK S . mTi! te i break-up ” delight. So Aunt
teally held the lawn, with a tableful of chocolates
tor prizes, and fortune-tellers hid mysteriously in
the shrubberies, and a brass band (that wasn’t
music within the meaning of the fact) discoursed
clamorously in the garden.
The.guest’s son accompanied her, but “George”
did not “ take ” with the cheeky liveliness of the
Tu S rla - The - V wa -nted to hatpin him to see
if he d move Melba looked as if she were
wreathed with laurels; her dress was creamy
chiffony gauze, with garlands of twined oak
leaves painted on the skirt and sleeves. Melba
enjoyed herself thoroughly, and made jolly re-
acquaintance with old girls, and tweaked the pig-
tails of very new ones; and had a bang for a box of
sweets, and her fortune told, and her photo
taken. After all these joys the rain descended,
and she was. driven inside, where she just
managed to resist a run on the Roman rings
since she was not garbed in “gym ” dress.
It was a great old time for the “ old girls,” who
sorted each other out, with much eyeing and dis-
cussion. Old-time master Dy. Wilson beamed
his way round. He would get into a group of
ancients.” “Yes, you were Ellen! Which
was Marian and Phoebe?” and Marian and
Ellen quite beamingly forgot the tone of voice
in which their names were often called in those
bygone days.
The Kelso King-Kirk wedding, on Wednesday,
at Christ Church, South Yarra, was quiet as
tar as guests were concerned, but gorgeous
m the swagger blossom of frocking. Miss Kirk is
a cousin (or something) to Kirk’s Bazaar, with
a horsey vet. brother. The family is very golden,
as the Mt. Morgan Westey Halls belong to the
clan. The man—the Kelso-King bridegroom—is
or was, your wealthy Harbor-dwelling widower’
and is himself a director of Mt. Morgan and
chairman or something of Mort’s Dock,’ and
dozens of other things with money in them
ihe true-lovers’ bow was knotted by the
Kev. Chnst-Church Canon Tucker. The bride
had a wonderful piece of old lace lent to her
tor the veiling ceremony, and her other drapings
were of the same rank in grandeur—but
oppositely new. Her gown was of chiffon with
the new satin stripe.
Hilarious stories gain in volume, as time goes
on, regarding the recent Matrons’ Ball. Shocked
voices say that champagne flowed freely from the
very first jump, “ which is never done, you know
at the best dances, my dear! ” Above all the
stories, in horrified background, loom the rigidly
fashionable visages of the catmittee. It’s cruel
"T 1 * 8 , fi^ dlsh ! Stories about The Matrons'
Ball 1 The swagger and correct ball of the
season ! It has a savor of blasphemy.
Haunting the heels of the giddy stories is a hinted
zest T a story to do with a certain celebrated lady
within our gates who tried to find her motor before
the hour the chauff had been notified, and her
attack on “any old motor,” to the delight of the
staring, gaping crowd who glory in a ball at the
P ran Town Hall.
Popular Henry Bracy goes on furlough this
month, for the first time in eighteen strenuous
years Until Nov. 27, when he goes to Rotorua,
nell idle about on the Blue Mountains, only
sighting the city for the sake of seeing a test-
.P 16 ‘ ‘ Blue Moon ” co. will rejoin its mentor
m Wellington at Christmas. “Papa” Bracy,
with his sartorial glories and soft manners, is as
a good deed in a naughty theatrical world, where
sultry language has not yet died of neglect, and
linen sees the light of day long after its first blush
of laundned glory has faded. He’s one of the few
managers who can exercise despotism without
being discourteous, and who have the grace to be
merciful when pretending to be only just.
‘‘Game Pied la Ptomaine” was the dish set
before a party t’other night, which almost caused
the untimely end upon earth of Master Stanley
lirentnall. The witty youth, however, escaped an
immediate expedition to a higher sphere, and is
now almost recovered, thank you. The pains and
risks attached to the rdle of bon vivant , when it is
?&TT aS £ tn ?J an over- worked chef, are some-
thing to be shuddered at these days. The white-
aproned gentleman, in all innocence, may present
one with a mayonnaise more deadly than Locusta’s
• £ propos > have you heard the ragged
brats description of an epicure? “’E’s one o’
them silly blokes as’ll eat anythink ! ”
That tropically beautiful maid, Miss Claire
confesses that she meditates matrimony
with Lieut. Robert Hammond Chambers, K.N
who was with the Euryalus some two years ago.’
a * fc , Hon g kon ff- His papa’s death, which
occurred lately, throws the burden of spending
hplnm[° S V n th u Tpung_man, and he’ll need a
helpmate. Since the bride is young and beautiful,
and the groom is gilded and charming, there is
every prospect of an idyll. Which may mitigate
<** the eligible young men who have
i Sp T, ed X°„ the ? nes favor > but probably
won t Other people s happiness hasn’t anything
like the consolatory value of other people’s misery!
The Anderson demoiselles are the one object-
lesson Sydney has offered us during race week.
Legend says that they make their own frocks •
cats say they import them. Whichever is true
matters little. They have each looked like the
realised dreams of a dressmaking poet, in gar-
ments picturesque and becoming, which were
a tacit reproach to all women who are merely
dressed by an extravagant unoriginal show-
room oracle. Lucky is the woman who has the
inestimable gift of grasping other people’s most
flattering conception of her, and dressing to match
The papers have been printing letters on “ex-
travagance of dress” since Cup week. So far no
one seems to have “got on” to the municipal
lady Who at Caulfield wore a 27 guineas hat
iwas an overcrowded affair (albeit the accom-
panying dress was a dream of simplicity
and loveliness); but the concoction had
been reposing m a fashionable top-notch-
dresser s show-case for an envious and much-
discussed week, and every fashionable eye in Mel-
bourne had noticed it and its price'. Must have
been an ecstasy of joy to feel that everyone knew
how horribly expensive one’s hat was.
Tv/r S nf ll We Ve jl ee motor cars racing for the
Melbourne Cup On the big day, “ the carriage
paddock at Flemington was like a mammoth
garage, while two solitary four-horse drags repre-
sented a feature that some few Cups ago was
dominant Is this ominous of the passing of the
geegee? T. H. Payne, the Toorak M.L.C., who
takes prizes for his orchids at every flower
show, handled the ribbons of one showy team •
while A. H. A Beckett, a Gippslander, for the
thirteenth consecutive Cup came up to town to
act as whip on the Savage Club drag The
swaggering Savages, by the way, have abandoned
their immaculate frock coats and varnished
toppers for the more seasonable and reasonable
tweeds and straws.
Recent weeks have been so studded and
knobbed, and packed and surrounded with Garden
Parties, that I clean forgot to mention one of the
best of the species exhibited. ’Twas the day before
Steeplechase, and Prime Minister Deakin and
his Lady hosted on the neat and close-shaven lawns
of Parliament House Gardens. The day chose to be
one of the goodly blue ones that never meet wind
and the dresses were like the flowers that bloom
in the spring and riot in the summer. Mrs
Deakin gowned in grey-soft grey crepe that
cmled and twisted and glided after her in the
vivid green grass. Mrs. Deakin is one of those
regal people whose walk is a superb progression
Vuite: a sedate air was given to the usual frivol of
a garden spree by the guests filtering through the
pondrous tombrous gloom of the Houses Library.
In the Library, by-the-bye, much interest was
taken in an out-spread set of silver: heavy trav
and massive coffee wherewithals, engraved with a
regretful farewell message to leader Watson
M.P., trom his party colleagues.
Quite a number of the people who usually may
be counted upon to make a splash of color on any
prospect they adorn, are in sombre mourning.
Mrs. Langtree and her daughters are wearing the
, ? es olation on account of James
McCrackens death. And each day may be seen
at a Block rendezvous Mrs. Bowes Kelly and
m rS 'i- rk T Plumed in Hailing sable wrappings.
When this Junoesque mourning trio ascends the
family motor, it suggests the three Fates taking
an outing in a Black Maria.
'! e T T k n in the quietest way possible,
leddy Hallenstein, Melbourne’s star Hebrew
catch was married to Miss Blayne, niece of the
East Melbourne Benjamins. She came to Mel-
bourne from Fiji for a holiday, but remains to
take up permanent quarters at Melbourne Man-
sions, where hubby lived his latter bachelor days
in the brownest of brown studies (and other rooms
en suite ).
Pretty Leslie Tope will enter the elastic
bonds of matrimony with the Tasmanian wooer,
Mr. Tom Murdoch, on December 14. As a
matron, the dainty Leslie will probably teach the
Islanders a frocky lesson—for which the Hobart-
townswomen should be duly grateful, judging bv
some race-week exhibitions. 8 8 y
Mrs. Tom Staughton, the widowed daughter-
ly ° f f MrS ' Wlmm T’ a league Staughton,
Mr h te n i erS U F° n an ° t u her conjugal voyage with
Mr. Fred Armytage. They are both abroad now
and will probably be welded until death do them
part before returning hither. Meantime, con-
gratulatory cables whizz across the world to the
popular pair.
Your gaud-Mayor Hughes, and the Mayoress,
with the John Lane-Mullins, and Mrs. Michael
Hughes, are sojourning at Menzies’, and indulging
w an , ex^ aus^ and heroic survey of the
Women’s Ex, The family makes its appearance
o n „=^ U^ able to tasteful & rief > and refrains,
jn acc°unt °f their occasion, from enjoying any of
gladly V b!d t e hem. WhlCh ac< l uaintances Woldd
in T Hm? a r y B °- X Co ',' ple arrive b y the Bremen,
relat vll en] ° 7 J\l zenith of their famous
Drlttv J J 1 Melba Prebably will fete her
EJ, f e , r to ,« om 1 e extent. So far the diva’s
„nfhi' :lllt y h . asn fc bad any sentimental savor. But
an the world loves to see theregnant Voice behaving
aP J ordinary dame, with a pleasant family,
“omehow it seems anomalous, and the
obscure prefer anomalies to art.
nf S Pinsehof, on the word
of Marshall Hall is the greatest “has-been”-
ever seen in Carmen” in Europe, Mel-
f- J ® d . *° expect great doings by
P‘* y ’ fair-haired daughter Carmen in the
opera that—er— bears her name. The maid
herself declares : “ We have never known what it
is to be nervous, and if self-possession is the
Sh 6 *»
Nothing more yet about the marriage of Ex-
cellency John s second youngest with the Hun-
garian wooer.
M^ be w >r - eS^e ” t of j tbe Legislative Council and
Mrs Wnxon intend to be “At Home” in the
Parliament House, which is a most gloomy,
7 ri a?e . to , feel at borne in, on Monday, the
rv ft ' it is to be an evening function, and will
be gaily and officially clad in particular honor of
the returning Talbottle and his stately Dame.
Madame Emery Gould’s students give an At
Home on the 21st, and the cards shout the Melba
name as the First Guest. The handsome doctor-
widow lady with the Voice was, for part of her
Marchesi S ’ a contem P ora ry of Melba under
Miss Florence Maher, daughter of the Hunter
Kiver Mahers, was quietly married in Elstern-
wmk last week to her John Sutcliffe Rigby, son
of the Westralian Orient-shipping Rigby. The
bridegroom is an officer on an'Orient boat, and
forbidden to take his bride along with him ; so the
little newly-wed followed post-haste by the next
boat, and, as she will do a sprint across country
from Marseilles, will arrive in London on the
same day as her adoring hubby. Liverpool, Eng-
land, is to be the home of the couple.
Ar 1 ’ he^ V ?, man Suffragists, with the indomitable
Vida Goldstein leading, gave a little opposition
Womens Work Exhibition on their own “for
one night only,” at the Masonic Hall, on Thurs-
day. Enlightening tableaux and poster effects
were the.substance of the evening explained in
brisk crisp talks by Vida. “The British
law requires that a man (which also means
woman) must be tried by his peers-Is she ’ ”
suddenly snapped the talking lady, and the
curtain spasmodically rose on a Judge, counsel
and jury—all men—trying a girl prisoner droop-
X * t^le were fair she’d admit
that that girl prisoner—if not an absolute idiot—
would prefer trial by man to trial by woman any
day.) oome pathetic and telling poster pictures,
of women and girls carrying banners, showing
their conditions of employment, touched on more
real grievances.
, the packed-house rush at a fashionable
hostelry this race time, quite a standing joke with
the older residents was the “ moving-on ” of new-
comers after a night in their first-found quarters.
Ihe new-comer was invariably tested with the
one room next door to that of a huge and pro-
minent Westralian politician, but the new-comer
could never live through a second night of the
next-door orchestra—the sonorous snores of the
B!g One are a recognised musical treat in the
Awi x avors w Rh his beaming presence.
When I go to my room at night,” said a de-
camping visitor, “I retire for rest—not for dis-
turbance. Besides, I had put in a few hours at
lannhauser before I turned in.”
They’re comforting the Parliamentary man
who brought a damaged nose out of an affray with
a muita,ry potentate that in these troubles it is
one ot the inexorable laws of Nature that the
smaller party must suffer the broken nose. Even
the great Napoleon would probably have come off
badly m a rough-and-tumble.
A strange lady in this land is doing fine
deeds She s Miss Olga Clauscen, who only
arrived from Copenhagen a couple of years agone.
Now, she runs a Scandinavian paper, which is a
record of Norse doings, here and in Europe. It
deals with the arts, births, deaths, marriages
and general views of the people who have Vikings
and Skalds among their forbears, and whose an-
cestors went baresark and were solid on the
subjects of Thor and Odin and Valhalla : and
the treatment, is as bright as may be. But
the greatest point is that this patriotess not only
writes the journal, but she actually nlavs com-
positor. Then her brother prints it. Any clever
and charming woman may write, but intakes a
heroine to composit.” Miss Clauscen has a
proud collection of Danish books, and some of the
hnest things desirable in the way of antique
furniture and Icelandic curios.
The aristocrats who go into business in London
make full use of their titles and coronets in the
pursuit of custom. An English lady got this, the
other day, on coroneted notepaper :
7 Launceston Place, Kensington, W.
a ia' v^ UC^' P resen f s her compliments to —and
™°rnl d i a b V e 7 . muc s °. b J^ ed if sh e would consider her
carpets, etc., before deciding to furnish elsewhere Ladv
Auckland would be very grateful if would honor
her with a visit, or Lady Auckland could come and bring
any chintees, brocades, etc. She has a set of magnificent
Chippendale chairs quite unique in design, should—!!_
be requiring such things.
w. A h° kland 18 the plucky woman who
has started a furniture shop, her husband having
change UP tbe ancestra, l beans on the Stock Ex-
Women’s Exhibition functions are becoming
something to be steadfastly avoided—the artists
practically outnumber the audiences. It some
concerts the management has patiently waited
half-an-hour over time in the hope of attracting a
quorum. Then the petticoated programme was
alternately dawdled and bolted through to uni-
versal dissatisfaction. By injudicious advertise-
ment, the masses are led to believe that the
classes are m undisputed possession ; so the large
for;S d J a fb IeS A * r ° Ught their 11 small children
W tb fc - tthe A-N-A - ex P os >tion are conspicuous
for their non-appearance at this latest show P And
the classes, who are easily tired, have concluded
that they prefer to exhaust .themselves by over-
feeding-at smart routs, to overworking at such an
impersonal occupation as exhibitioning. Lady
JNorthcote is about the most regular patron of the
place, but as she doesn’t permit her comings and
goings to take place to the sound of trumpets,
that fact doesn’t bring along the multitudes who
dearly love a Lady.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
The Q. Philp Ministry was sworn in on
JLuesday. Members were: R. Philp, Digby
Denham (ex-Kidstonian), W. H. Barnes, P.
Leahy and Stephens; and in the Council : W. V.
Brown and F. I. Power. It is likely to get short
shrift when xt meets the House.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
P£&
GO TO UET.T-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to"
Fred. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss
Si
Elastic
T mss—
Single, 17/(1
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort.made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced litters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
Private Enterprise is on the rampage again
over the decision of the Federal Government to
accept the tender of the N.S. W. Government dock
for the construction of a trawler. It was the
lowest tender, and why shouldn’t the Govern-
ment tender as well as Private Enterprise ?
Everlastingly the mostly-Anti-Sosh man-
on-the-land wants Socialism. The latest request
is from the fruit-growers, who want “ Government
depdts in all the main distributing centres where
fruit can be stored, packed, graded, etc.” Heaven
only knows what that sort of Anti-Socialist’s
“etcetera ” may amount to.
N.S.W. ex-Premier Carruthers proposes
visiting England, and hints are thrown out that
he is to have the post of Agent-General. But
Wade will hardly dare to venture such a scandal-
ous job. N.S.W. has already an excellent Agent-
General in Coghlan, and the only possible excuse
for dispensing with his services would be the
abolition of the office.
The papers state that Deakin has been
asked some question by a Mr. Dugald Thomson.
We seem to have heard that name, somewhere, a
long time ago. There was a Dugald Thomson
who went to London with Lyne and Billy
Hughes; but he has never been heard of since.
Did he ever come back ?
N.S.W. Agent-General Coghlan has been
carrying on a controversy*with Lord Avebury and
others in London Times re the subject of old-age
pensions, and Coghlan scores pretty decisively,
though his noble antagonist thought him “more
forcible than courteous.” In England there is so
much cotton-wool wrapping about everything that
straight Australian seems rude when in reality it
is only logical.
The tariff goes through fairly well, all
things considered, and there is hopeful talk of an
adjournment before Christmas, with the tariff
finished as far as the Reps, are concerned. So far,
the range of duties as passed is, on the average,
higher than those proposed under the Kingston
tariff. If during the current week a satisfactory
degree of encouragement is given to the iron
industry, things will be not so bad.
Prime Minister Deakin, at Melbourne :
It was only five years ago that the first Australian
tariff displaced six tariffs. That tariff was submitted to
Parliament as a tariff for at least ten years, but it left
Parliament as one for five years only. A new tariff had
again been submitted for at least ten years, and it would
be a misfortune if it were again to leave Parliament as
suitable for only five years.
In other words, there can be no “fiscal peace’
until Australia gets a decent Protectionist tariff.
TOLL-PIKE TRADING.
It has always been an object with traders to stand two or three deep between the producer and the consumer, and make a new charge at every handling of the goods.— Age.
Grain and fodder speculators in Sydney
had a glorious time during those weeks when the
fool public was being bamboozled by yarns about
“UGo ~ • . . ~
T lnto P ayin o robbery
prices for anything and everything. A few
months ago maize was, say, 2s. lOd. a bushel. The
end of October saw it over 55., whiie genuine
buyers were trapesing Sussex-street, trying to
get it at under Gs. The same story was every-
where: “No maize.” Then a sprinkle of rain
fell over some of the coastal districts, and appa-
rently the rain produced a maize crop in a sin-le
night, for Sussex-street was at once trapesed by
eager sellers, looking for buyers at 4s. a bushel
For two days the panic lasted, and then Sussex-
street pulled itself together, and began to
hint at 4s. Id., 4s. 2d., 4s. 3d., and so on, up to
ds. 6d. But in those two days many of the
speculators were badly singed.
Secesh in W. A. , after lingering on in a
moribund state for the past two months, has
handed in its checks. O. R. Jones, the local
thinker who wanted to call out the tumbrils and
revolute in style when the anti-Fed. outburst first
started, turned up for the inquest, the other day,
with four others. Jones handled the job of
coroner, dropped a tear over the agitation which
he found to be well and truly dead, and sadly dis-
persed the meeting.
A new tram-shed is to be built in Moore
Park, Sydney, and the Railway Commissioners
called for tenders for 825,000 bricks. Then what
even the S. M. Herald refers to as “the perfect
nature of the organisation of the brick ring ” was
let out of the bag ; for the prices of the tenderers
were exactly the same—34s. per 1000 for common
and 38s. for selected bricks. Still, not having
brickworks of its own, the Railway Department
must pay just what the ring demands. And the
Railway Department is the people. Hooray for
Anti-Sosh !
Queensland M.L.A. Plunkett has taken to
Secesh of late as the Chow takes to opium. He
seceshed from Kidston to Philp a little while
back, so that the Federation, against which he
(Plunkett) cherishes 872 separate grievances, might
be the more expeditiously seceshed from. In the
last Parliament Plunkett sat as an independent
party of one—till the elections came, when he
uprose and seceshed from himself. He now
threatens darkly to secesh from Philp unless the
latter shows himself a more earnest secesher than
he is at present.
Tom Bent uttered a characteristic bellow
at Traralgon the other day, speaking of the
Argus’ attacks:—
We pay large sums of money to these people for adver-
tisements, and then they blackguard us. It might be a
good thing for the Government to publish its advertise-
ments in a paper of its own.
Does Tommy expect the papers to accept his
Government advertisements as bribes ? If so, it
is rational and legitimate to conclude that he
gives them as bribes. The corrupter is as bad as
the corrupted.
The new mail contract arranged with the
Orient Co. is as satisfactory as can be any con-
tract with a private firm. The Orient Co., it
seems, will cut away from its British connections,
and in time become practically an Australian
affair ; the ships will fly the Australian flag ; they
are to be of an improved and swifter type, and
will have good frozen-produce arrangements, so
that we may feed John Bull in comfort; white
labor is to be exclusively employed on the ships ;
and they are to keep in wireless-telegraphic com-
munication with the Australian coast until they
are 300 miles out.
Reid’s virtuous indignation over the
phrase “pauper labor,” applied to Britain, calls
softly to mind the epithets used by Reid, or in his
placid and unruffled presence, about the citizens of
different States of the Commonwealth. He put
a poster, “Beware of Victorian gold,”in King
Division. The insult was plain. He compared
the other colonies to “five drunkards.” He
laughed when Jack Want called the people of
the other States, especially Victoria, “wolves and
thieves.” He (Reid) said the South Australians
wanted to “steal our rivers.” In fact, he has
said things twice as bad about Australians as the
member did about pauper England. To find
fault with Carr’s phrase needed the cheek of a
highwayman.
With its customary acumen the Melbourne
Tramway Co., after talking matters over with
Chief Sec. Peacock, “ voluntarily ” reduced the
hours of its gripmen and conductors from 60 to 54
per week, without reduction of wages, thus raising
the rate for first-class gripmen from lOd. to lid.
per hour. M.L. A. Bromley’s promise to move an
amendment bringing the big monopoly’s employees
under the Factories Act threatened to produce
some unpleasant remarks, with the possibility of
drastic action to follow ; so the bear came down.
But there are still many employees working the
60 hours in engine-houses, on the tracks, and else-
where, and this partial reduction to 54 doesn’t
seem adequate reason why the Labor party should
now go to sleep.
The mayor and aldermen of the bankrupt,
ill-kempt, pocket-handkerchief borough of Cam-
perdown (Sydney), asked Minister for Works Lee
last week for a special endowment for their dis-
graced patch. Their rates are in the receiver’s
hands, and they had no money to keep their back
lanes clean. But the City Council of Sydney is
prepared to take over Camperdown, clean it up,
and make it a self-respecting part of the city.
That, though, would mean the extinction of the
mayor and aldermen, so the offer has been re-
fused. Minister Lee spoke kindly to the mayor,
and softly to the aldermen. Which was very
silly of Mr. Lee. The municipal authorities of
Camperdown deserve nothing but censure.
Ifc is more than likely that the Licenses
Reduction Board, now sitting in Victoria, will
prove utterly incapable of cutting out a single
license. Still, the salary paid to its members
will not be wholly wasted. When the pub-keeper
is upsides with the Licenses Reduction Act, and
there is involved a question of compensation, he
isn’t a hesitant about stating every individual
bean he makes per annum. And that informa-
tion will be of much interest to the Income Tax
Commissioner later on.
If Yes-No Reid gets the chance he will
probably take Representative Hedges (W.A.)
out into a quiet place and lose him. After making
a fearful blunder about the yarn imported into
Australia, this freak Foreign-trader chirpily
replied, in answer to a query whether he had gone
to the woollen mills for his information—“ No,
I wouldn’t go to the enemy for that,” Poor
Greid had to sit and listen to this Australian
legislator, openly calling Australian manufac-
turers his “enemies.” As for Jocook, his face
was a study in manslaughter.
Whenever it was mentioned that there
hadn’t been any difficulty in enforcing Arbitration
awards in Maoriland, the reply was always
thrown back that the Maoriland experience didn’t
count for anything, because there never were any
labor troubles while things were prosperous, and
Maoriland had been prosperous ever since Arbi-
tration arrived. Newcastle knocks out that reply,
anyway. For the coal trade never was brisker,
and the district never was more prosperous, than
it was at the very moment when the men knocked
off work. Some other reason to account for the
success of Arbitration in Maoriland will have to
be invented.
The preferential Customs allowances to
articles shipped from Britain will have to he
watched. Francois de Oastella lately supplied
Premier Bent with particulars of a choice concoc-
tion, “manufactured in England,” from dried
Grecian grapes, sugar, water, and certain
chemicals, and miscalled wine. There is, of
course, no preferential duty to help this abomina-
tion to compete against Australia’s natural grape-
juice ; but the British manufacturer is up to tricks
in all trades, and wine isn’t the only thing he
monkeys with. The preference should apply
only to goods that are British—and honest.
Varney Parkes was accepted by an Orange
gathering in Sydney the other day as his father’s
successor in the r&le of insectarian. If he thinks
that the Australian public is now what it was
in the time of his father he errs egregiously.
Australian interests have largely taken the place
in its mind which used to be occupied by
memories of sectarian faction fights and legends
of the Boyne and Vinegar Hill. The poison of
such memories and legends is not, it is true,
wholly eliminated from the Australian system;
but he is a dull bigot who does not realise that
most of it has gone, and the balance is going
rapidly.
Gov.-General Northcote, on Asiatic exclu-
sion, at Melbourne Gaud Mayor’s banquet, the
other day :
The position of Australia, and the possible danger from
abroad, reminded him somewhat of the position of the
British Parliament when the Bill for the exclusion of
James 11. from the throne was under discussion. Colonel
Titus, a member of the House of Commons, made a
speech, which was afterwards summarised in verse :
“ But Titus said, with his uncommon sense,
When the Exclusion Bill was in suspense :
‘ I hear a lion in the lobby roar ;
Say, Mr. Speaker, shall we shut the door,
And keep him there, or shall we let him in,
And try if we can turn him out again'? ’ ”
That seemed to him to be the position of Australia at the
present time.
Queensland has another political crisis.
Kidston wished to “ swamp ” the Upper House
so as to force his programme through. The
Governor refused to make the necessarj'- appoint-
ments. Kidston resigned and Philp was sent for
to form a Ministry. Kidston —as he was quite
entitled to do under the circumstances—refused
Philp an adjournment to form a Ministry, since it
was quite obvious that such a course involved a
waste of time, as Philp could not hope to
carry on. Then the Governor interfered and
asked Kidston to secure an adjournment for Philp,
and Kidston consented. So Philp is trying to get
a gang together. It is obvious that the only
power which can grapple with the obstructive Tory
House in Queensland is a Radical combination of
the Kidston following with the Labor party.
That combination, so far, seems impossible.
Whose the blame, it is hard to say. But the
country suffers whilst its saviors quarrel.
' Iron Bonus Bill episode (Lyne ex-
plaining) :
Members might not be aware that in the Dibbs tariff
in N.S.W. the duty on pig iron was postponed for 12
months in the hope that by that time the industry would
have been established ; but no steps were taken, and the
duty then became operative, and remained until removed
by the Reid Administration.
Joseph Cook : There never was a duty on pig iron in
N.S.W.
Lyne : I know what I’m talking about.
Cook : 1 again say that there never was a duty on pig
iron in N.S. W. /
Well, section 2, part 11. of N.S.W. Customs
Duties Act of 1891 (Dibbs tariff) provided : “ The
duty on pig iron shall be levied and paid at the
rate, and from the time mentioned in Schedule
‘A.’” And Schedule “A” said: “Pig iron,
from the first day in January, 1893, per ton 10s.”
N.S.W. Customs Duties Act of 1595 (Reid tariff)
repealed the pig iron duty ; which is exactly what
Lyne said. So far Cook hasn’t apologised.
Sydney D.T. reluctantly praises Tariff
Bill Lyne:—
But whatever the deficiencies in the Treasurer s know-
ledge may be, whatever time and attention he devoted to
THE HOLY TELEGRAPHS.
Once more it is necessary to call
emphatic attention to the disgraceful
inefficiency of the Australian tele-
graph service.— AGE.
SEN PUBLIC : “ Look at the state
of it! ”
POSTAL OFFICER : “ Oh, yes, but
it’s PURE! Would that your
soul were like it, brother! ”
a study of the in-
dividual item s s
Whatever the
reason for his
adamsUtihe
Silence \Vfieh h'e
proposes iirt ih-
terease that appar-
ently canndt h'e
defended, tev’ery-
body will Agree
that his patien'ce
is inexhaustible.
He sits ill th'e
Ministerial chair
from 2.45 eich
day iintil i 'clps'e f
;oii midnight. He ’
beArS the death- ,
Jess eloquence of i
30 or 40 members *
altogether, drawn
from his own side,
from the Labor
Party, from the
Opposition, and
never blinks. He
listens to every-
thing. He laughs
at every joke.
He takes up a pen
and draws cari-
catures on his
blo 11 in g pad.
Sometimes he
varies the dreari-
ness of the etern-
ally flowing ora-
tory by writing
a letter. But he
scarcely ever
leaves his seat,
except to rusli
upstairs in the
middle of the
afternoon for a
cup of tea, and
for a whiff of a
cigar. Even this
temporary dis-
traction is taken
reluctantly, and
with regret, for
when the time
arrives he goes
out of the Cham-
ber at full speed
and comes back
in 20 minutes,
almost breathless.
It is this steady,
irreducible pati-
ence, this un-
ruffled deter-
mination to get
through ulti-
mately, this assured and placid conviction that if he
does not carry the whole of his duty he will carry
enough of it, which are responsible for the success that
he achieves.
A Riverina deputation, the other day,
asked T. Bent, of Victoria, to try to get them a
railway. Their chances look like Buckley’s.
Bent can’t build a line in N. S. Wales territory,
and Lee, of the Wade and Waddle Works
Department, “declares his unwillingness to do
anything simply for the benefit of Victoria.” So
because, if a railway were built, the traffic would
go to Melbourne instead of being hauled a vast
distance to Sydney, these people must do without
a railway and stick to the bullock system of
transport. The Wade and Waddle policy really
amounts to this : “ We won’t do anything that
won’t benefit Sydney.”
Sydney Telegraph is writhing in a
horrible tangle over the Newcastle coal strike.
First, it threw mud at the Arbitration Act, and
when it had well plastered the system and the
Court, it found a big strike raging, and the public
squealing for Arbitration. Then, to save its face,
it said that Arbitration was a splendid thing;
but, of course, the Arbitration Court was an
absurdity, and no self-respecting employers
would look at it, and a “special tribunal ” was
necessary. And just when it had committed
itself to that, the coal-owners resolved that the
Arbitration Court was the proper tribunal, and
that a special tribunal was an utterly wrong one,
because it would necessarily be made up, not of
impartial men, but of partisans. So the Tele-
graph doesn’t known what to do.
From an American Labor paper :
While Labor is objecting to Chinese and Japanese
workers being- admitted to America, capital is being
admitted over there, and will soon begin to flood the
world with goods made by pauper labor, even by child
labor. In Shanghai there are 20,000 women and
children workers in the silk mills. The maximum wage
is 26 cents for a 13-hour day, and many of the women
get five cents and the children three cents for a day’s
work. The wages and hours are much the same in the
cotton mills. These goods produced by this labor must
come into competition with the union-labor products of
America.
Well, they will first have to climb the Americar
tariff wall. Here in Australia, however, Brud
Smith will meet them with a soft spot and a wel
coming hand, while the Labor party is out in th
harbor sinking the fiscal issue.
Maoriland is now a country without an
orator. Joseph Ward is inaccurate and inconel’
sive, and very often unconvincing. Massey, who
said to lead Maoriland Opposition, is worse—it is
Massey’s impotence of speech that has given Ward
his reputation as a debater. There are now rocks
ahead. The true strength of Seddon as a leader
lay in his recognition of the weakness of the
Opposition, and his steady determination to keep
it crushed. Ward, who is not strong in that way,
dallies and placates, so that there is at least a
possibility that Massey, who is Tory to the teeth,
may some day be Premier. True, Massey
has one thing to commend him to the tolerance of
democrats. He disapproves of the wholesale'
borrowing of the Ward party. !
A thoroughly Australian Christmas gift'
for a friend abroad—a subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep your friend
current with Australian life.


“ Man is a reasoning animal,”
and when we state that we can supply you with a typewriter, the
equal of any sold, at less than half the price charged for other standard
machines, you very naturally ask * * HOW and Why ?
Type,
Key
This solid type-bar, cutting out 1200 useless parts, answers both
questions, and solves the mystery.
Great inventions are frequently the simplest. This type-bar is the
fruit of 20 years* experimenting on the part of a veteran typewriter
manufacturer, and is only the most important of several improvements in
THe Briton.
That it gives complete and lasting satisfaction in every respect, we can
prove by hundreds of enthusiastic testimonials from all parts of Australasia
It will suit you —in fact, its excess value will astonish you.
m
«*•
SE*.
-■
mtM
m
S 3
ass
m*.
'■Z
<v-
You test it thoroughly—if it exceeds your expectations, you keep it—
if not, simply send it back. You are under no obligation, and the trial
costs you nothing. There are nine proven ways in which a typewriter
will make money for you. Write to-day for full particulars free.
Southern Sales, Limited,
284 George Street, Sydney (Box; 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne. 7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
in our
£3/3/-
SUITS.
Write for Patterns and
Self-Measurement Forms.
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED.
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.”— Marcus Aurelius.
MALTHOID is the result of twenty odd years’ experience in the
manufacture of portable roofings, combined with a practical knowledge
of the chemistry of water and weatherproof materials, and their
adaptability to varying conditions. As a floor covering for bathrooms,
balconies, lavatories, basements, and any other place where damp is likely
to occur, it is simply perfect.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt .Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THAT CIGAR!
You remember that cigar a friend gave you the other day
—what a good one it was ?—most likely it was a
KING OF ALL K & B HIGH LIFE, 17s. 6d. A 100.
Delicious in Flavor. Not Strong, but just Right.
Sample Box of 4» 1/- Post Free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
1
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
DRINK ONLY.
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME —They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
m
OS
coupon
M
5T
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have f urnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY*
Therefore, when shopping', say
co
CO


A WONDERFUL CORRECTIVE
Op all Disorders op the Stomach, Liver,
Kidneys, and the Blood.
It is not claimed that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a cure-all, but as a genuine corrective for
all common ailments arising' from disorders of the
stomach, liver and kidneys, they are undoubtedly
the best remedy on the market. An ounce of
prevention is often worth pounds of cure, and as
many people are more or
less subject to some weak-
ness, when the latter gives
warning of its approach it
is both wise and reasonable
to adopt some means of
preventing symptoms de-
velopinginto serious illness.
“For the last seven
years,” says Mrs. W. Burt,
of Hillgrove, N.S.W., “I
have occasionally taken
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for indigestion and
constipation, and I would
not be without them, for I
find they give me imme-
diate relief. I enjoy very
good health, and on any
signs of indisposition I
have recourse to Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. I also
give them to the children
when they require them,
and I think that is what keeps them in such good
health. I can speak highly of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills as a mild corrective, and recommend
them to others.”
QR
DIRECTIONS
AWHT3 Tv* Tofe«*fW
CHILDREN MUI» to*
Wnouc Piu Dusoivn
f» Swcktknco Watch
Jkkt A *A>nr reftrin4
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE
LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES ■
West Australian Agents—Messrs E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt «t., Fremantle.
Bbeweby and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“B”: A review of the English cricketera on
their Adelaide performances :
Fane, who starts with A. O. Jones, is a dull plodder
with few strokes and little power, not an international
man by a long way.
Captain Jones is attractive, but his batting is not safe
on fast wickets with a good field.
Hayes is lively and a trifle “ agricultural,” but didn’t
stay sufficiently long to show what he can do.
Hutchings has a magnificent straight drive and a daring,
graceful pull stroke. If he survives the first half-dozen
overs he will put up some big scores. An uncertain
starter.
Hardstaff appears to be the soundest and most versatile
bat of the side. Has a good style, and scores all round
the wicket.
Braund is still a careful, solid bat, who makes no
attempt to pile on runs before settling down.
Crawford will be a prime favorite. He hits hard with
no apparent effort. A splendid square cut and a fine cover
hit are his best strokes.
Rhodes is a greatly improved batsman of the solid
staying order, untroubled by nerves. He will prove
useful when things are going badly.
Barnes has learned something of batting since last here
with McLaren.
Humphries, a safe keeper.
Hobbs, Young, Blythe, and Fielder did not bat in
Adelaide.
Barnes will prove the mainstay of the attack depart-
ment. He has lost a little of his pace and gained in
accuracy.
Crawford has any amount of vim, and varies his stuff
cleverly. Will be very dangerous when the wicket gives
some assistance.
Blythe is accuracy itself, but not deadly on hard Aus-
tralian wickets. On a mud heap he would'probably get a
strong side out for under 50.
Rhodes seems to have lost a little of his skill in propor-
tion to his advance in batting.
Braund is dangerous to right-handers who are impa-
tient to score, but he is a gift to Clem Hill.
Hayes, who gets a fair number of wickets for Surrey,
will get fits from first-class men on hard wickets.
Fielder did not perform.
Altogether, Australia should recapture those ashes, as
the visitors are more dashing than sound in batting, and
their bowling should not be at all deadly on “shiny”
wickets. They are an excellent lot of fieldsmen, which
will help the bowlers ; but writer predicts some tall scor-
ing by the Australian Eleven.
* * « »
“Adelaide”: The one thing that definitely
went flop in the England-S.A. match was the reputation
of O’Connor, imported from Sydney by S.A. as a guide
and example for all young bowlers. Till the game began,
he was quite arguably one of Australia’s very best; but in
it he never looked like taking a wicket. As for Mcßeth,
imported at the same time, his name is already plain
Mud in Adelaide. While the earlier English batsmen
were always in doubt with Wright, and watched Roy
Hill’s fast medium stuff with respect, they pasted
O’Connor and Mcßeth without hesitation. Even when
the mighty smiting began, and one bowler was as good
as another (20 fours, two sixers, and a wicket was a fair
thing), it was Claxton and young Chamberlain who
induced the mishits that meant catches. O’Connor none
for 108, Mcßeth none for 98—such was the gloomy con-
clusion. The moral seems to be that a crack bowler who
would voluntarily leave his happy home to go and deal
with the shirt-front wickets of Adelaide Oval w'ould be
better advised to try running an ice-rink.
» ■* * *
Sydney Grammar School cricket team visits
Victoria this year. The annual fixture against Melbourne
Grammar School is set down for December 16 and 17 •
after which the Sydney schoolboys will play the St.’
Peter’s College (Adelaide) team on December 19 and 20
• * * *
South Australian trundler A. Wright followed
up his fine form against the English team by securing
six wickets for 57 runs against West Torrens in Adelaide
district cricket on Saturday. Wright’s fine bowling
suggests a claim for a position in the Australian XI.
* * * *
The Adelaide Oval, the scene of the English-
men’s first serious cricket match, is a busy place these
times. It is the headquarters of S.A. Cricket Association
(which controls it, under a lease from the City Corpora-
tion) and Football League. All specially-important
lacrosse matches are played on it. There are strong
bowls, lawn-tennis, and croquet clubs, composed of its
“full members,” and always at play. It has now
gathered in the Lawn Tennis Association, which agrees
to play all club (as well as inter-State) matches on its
central courts. And it had a monopoly of cycle-racing,
while there was any. S.A. Government has now defi-
nitely retired from competition with the Oval, havino-
given the Agricultural Society, for Show purposes, a 50-
years’ lease of the Exhibition Oval, which at one time
gathered in all cycling and tennis, and even (in one
winter of squabble and “ crisis ”) all the football.
“0.K.”: Judged by the performance of four
of their bowlers against the Victorian team in the first
innings, the Englishmen have a poor chance of win-
ning three out of five test matches. On a wet wicket
they might knock up a decent score, and get their
opponents out very cheaply, but under typical Australian
conditions their matches against the strongest elevens
will be tests of patience in run-getting. They haven’t a
bowler who can be expected to do great things against
first-class batsmen. Australia will put up some long
scores, and the Englishmen, even if they have the batting
power, will lack the sticking power—the patience and
resolution—necessary to win a six-days match. Tarrant
and the young left-hander, Ransford, made as free with
the bowling as Clem Hill did in Adelaide. Ransford, in
fact, was hitting them all round the wicket up to
the time when he smote what was practically a sixer off
Braund. The ball happened to go so very directly in a
line with an outfield that the tall young man in question
put his right hand over the rails and made a catch. But
in rare cases of that sort the batsman deserves a sixer
more than he deserves to get out. I have seen other All
England teams play Victoriain bygone November months,
and this was the first time the visitors lacked a bowler
who could “ stick up ” the younger batsmen. It may be
argued that Blythe and Rhodes were standing out of' the
team. But they had been on the job in Adelaide, where
they were not at all deadly. Who is going to prevent a
picked Australian XI. from collaring the bow-ling on a
hard wicket?
* * • *
The recognised bowlers in the N.S.W. team to
meet the Englishmen on Friday got rough handling in
Sydney first-grade competition last Saturday. Cotter
gathered in a solitary wicket for 69 runs, Noble also got
one wicket at a cost of 43 runs, while Johnson had 40
runs knocked off him without dismissing a batsman.
Macartney, however, took four wickets for 70 runs
(against the weak Redfern team), and Kelleway secured
four for 38.
* * * *
In Sydney first-grade competition, North Sydney
nd Paddington scored three-point wins over Petersham
and Sydney respectively. The margin in each case was
10 wickets. Redfern downed Gordon by 125 runs, Middle
Harbor accounted for University by 17, Balmain beat
Central Cumberland by 13 runs, and Glebe knocked out
Burwood by 63 runs—all on the first innings. North Sydney
is now at the head of the competition with 10 points, and
has a substantial lead of four points on Paddington,
which holds second place. Middle Harbor is third with
four points, and Central Cumberland and Glebe together
with a brace each, while Redfern is just out of debt
with a solitary one; after that they taper off
to Sydney, which is 10 below zero. The sensa-
tion of the round was the unexpected walloping- of
University by Middle Harbor. With 197 required to
win, the students made the century with the loss of only
three wickets. Middle Harbor’s fielding was the cause of
the downfall, and, as the game went on, it grew keener
and keener, and five wickets fell for 77. Still, with two
wickets to go, the necessary 20 might be made up.
Then the end came suddenly, the two last wickets falling
for two runs.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Motor Boat Club opened the season
on Saturday last by proceshing to Bodd Island for a little
picnic. Although a heavy sea was running and the
wind howled along in spiteful gusts, the company
had a g’ood time. The cruiser race was started, and con-
tested over four cheerful miles, during- which the boats
shipped numerous seas and staggered back to the finish-
ing line half full of water. The result was a win for the
limit boat, Seagull, which got away 18min.34sec. ahead
of the others. When Secretary Holdsworth looked at the
drenched boats, and thought of the discomfort of the ladies
who had to go home in them, he scratched off the Scouting
Race, in which a number of flags had to be picked up
from floating buoys while going at full speed, and proposed
another round of refreshments instead'. His motion was
carried unanimously. A feature of the show was the re-
appearance of the Baby de Dion, which Mr. Sandeman
has altered and improved. In spite of the rough water,
the altered and amended flyer cut out about 15 miles an
hour. Invincible is away in Maoriland.
* * * *
Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s race for the Raw-
son Oup on Port Jackson on Saturday was a glorious
affair. A wild nor’-nor’-easter made for excitement
which was increased by the fact that all previous winners
were competing, and that if Mr. Cutler’s trusty Kuku-
burra could score, it would be his third and ‘decisive
victory, which would land the trophy on his sideboard as
his exclusive property. But the gallant Cutler was right
up against it, for the mighty Rawhiti was there, and the
speedy Awanui, Mr. Saxton’s beautiful flier, the racer of
Port Jackson, was also in the hunt. Many looked upon
the affair as a contest between Rawhiti and Awanui. But
a rapid succession of accidents changed the aspect of
things entirely. Rawhiti’s jib carried away, and 108
precious seconds were lost effecting repairs. Then Kuku-
burra’s luck blew right out, something going wrong with
the head sails, compelling Cutler to lower away and
drift to leeward out of the race. Down at the
Heads, Fleetwing’s head-sails also went wrong, and
Mr. Saver had to retire. ■ Oulwulla led the way
to Manly, with Herreshoff and the flying Sunbeam
close behind, with White Wings, Cooya, Awanui, and
Rawhiti following in that order. Culwulla flashed away
across the Heads, leading past the Island with Sunbeam
only a minute and a half behind, and White Wings soar-
ing up closer every minute. At Fort Denison Sunbeam
danced to the front, with Culwulla and White Wings
second and third. A short tack brought White
Wings within striking distance, and in a desperate
effort to make up the lost ground Awanui’s skipper
kept the topsail aloft, although the beautiful boat
fairly staggered under it. At the Pile Light White Wings
h id got to the front, Awanui being unable to hoist the
topsail owing to the gear having jambed. But both
Culwulla and Awanui had passed the ’Beam, and they
finished in that order, White Wings winning by 4min.
4see., while Awanui was 33sec. behind the second.
But, as Dan’l O’Oonnor would say, “ th’ glory
an’ sphlendor av that gusty afthernoon ” fell brightest on
the professionals in the open 18-footers. Their race was
worthy of a contest for Neptune’s holy trident. The
fleetwinged Maritana, with her crew defying gravitation
on one side, challenged the heavyweather champion
Crescent to a rough-water duel, and beat her handsomely,
winning the first heat with a margin of 30sec. in
a race that saw one craft capsize on the way to
the _ line, and three others forced to drop out on
the journey. The second heat saw Mona fling out a full-
size suit of sails to the whistling breeze, and beat Aus-
tralian, although it was steered by that Nestor of the
game, Chris Webb. The brunt came when all the cham-
pions met in the final—Maritana, Crescent, Australian,
Eileen, Arthur, Donnelly, Mona, and Scot. Eileen
beat Australian for the wind at the start, and
led right across the Harbor to where a white
squall almost lifted her from the water, and
threatened to carry. her right away from the rest of
the fleet. But behind came the heavy-weather boat
Crescent, bowling along steadily, making quick little
spurts that meant a lot, fighting a great duel with Mari-
tana, whose gigantic ballooner dragged her along in spite
of the fact that Orescent had the weather gauge. Then
Maritana juggled out, and, bounding away to windward,
won out with half a minute to spare, after a most pic-
turesque race.
* * * *
The Australasian Championship meeting, to
decide which is the swiftest boat in the Southern seas,
will eventuate on Port Jackson the second Saturday in
March. Queensland will be represented by a boat
specially built for the purpose, and there is a possi-
bility that Auckland may find a flyer to represent
Maoriland, while N.S.W. will have several champions.
So far, it is to be regretted, there is no word from Mort’s
Dock about building a new Invincible to down the lot,
and carry the Australian flag to victory. The only
restriction imposed by the Club is that boats must not
exceed 45ft. in length, and into that sized hull owners
can place any power they like, and can carry as many or
as few passengers as they like. All competing boats are
to carry efficient mufflers.
* * » *
Victorian Four-Oared Championship attracted
two competitors—Albert Park and Mercantile—over the
miles lower Yarra course, Saturday afternoon last. Re-
gards weight, the crews were very evenly matched, the
“ Parks ” averaging list. 71b., having just a 21b. advantage.
At the start, Parks had the advantage of the pile
sheeting side of the course, which is well sheltered.
Striking the water, however, Mercs, got a smart
niove on, and the first 100 yards or so saw ’em
in front, but they were lurching, and the boat was
burying considerably in the wash of a steamer. At
the Pumping-Station Jim Donald had picked his crew
together without apparent effort, and was three-quarters
of a length ahead of Mercs., who were still a trifle rocky,
though the boat was travelling better than at the get-
away. Crossing to the west side at the Chemical
Works, Ivens made an effort in the smooth water
to pick up the leaders, but the old *un in front
was too knowing to lose any advantage at this
stage, so kept going. From the Works to the finish it
was a mere procession, Donald eventually passing the
judge three clear lengths to the good, easing up, having
put the journey behind in 16min. 55 2-ssec.
• * * *
Webb handed in the second deposit of £2OO
last week in connection with the sculling champion-
ship. Tresidder’s money was paid at Sydney (by
special arrangement with Webb), but there are grave
doubts whether he will be able to gather in the remainder
of the stake-money. A circular has gone round to
gather in funds.
• * • *
“The Kaiser had a good day’s shooting at
Windsor, and at the close of the day’s operations had
bagged 700 birds.” So says a recent cable. That means
140 birds an hour for five hours. Possibly the Kaiser, who
can do no wrong, had a duck gun, and wiped out a dozen
birds at a time. This is the sport of Kings ! It makes
one reflect with something like satisfaction on the fact
that kings themselves have been made the sport of
groundlings.
*■ * * *
The general result of the Pioneer Motor Cycle
Club’s reliability contest was to demonstrate that the
weak spots of the motor bike are the tyres and belts, and
that the low-powered machine is just as good as the other
sort for general utility. Of the five men who qualified for
the run-off, four rode machines whose engines ranged
from 2J to 3 h.p., and the other was mounted on
alf h.p. cycle. The 3J to 4J, and 4J to 6 h.p. men were
right out of the hunt. In the final, Tatham’s 2£ h.p.
Minerva won, with Olouting’s 8 h.p. Fafnir and Brook’s
I 3-4 h.p. Speedwell a dead heat for second place. Palmer
had to retire from the final owingto his belt carrying away.
The road was far from good—was rough, in fact; but all
the machines maintained an average speed of 20 miles an
hour. On top of the many other demonstrations in
various parts of the world, this ought to just about kill
the craze for high-powered motor bikes. There is too
much vibration about them.
* * * *
Nominations for the Austral Wheel Race meet-
ing close with the Melbourne Bicycle Club, on Saturday,
November 23 ; and handicaps will be declared on the 26th.
Unless the M. 8.0. can get a wooden and properly banked
track laid down for the event, the Austral meeting will
be about the most ghastly frost that has been seen in even
much-bitten Melbourne. Racing on the grass is too slow
for the modern follower of the game.
* * * *
Brigadier-General Gordon has suggested that
the N.S.W. motorists should form a military motor
corps. If the motoring doctors can be roped in, that
corps will be a deadly organisation, and equal to an
ordinary army corps. Consider the number of people
the motoring medicos kill now when they are trying
not to. Human nature shudders to think of what will
happen when they are out to do their worst, and best, in
the killing line. The Automobile Club will consider the
suggestion at the annual meeting, to be held on the 28th,
and there is a large probability that something in the
shape of a fighting machine will be evolved. The idea is
a good one.
« » * *
It looks as if, though the coming Austral may
be a “ sassiety success,” it won’t amount to a box of corn
plasters as a cycling carnival. On King’s birthday, the
three returned track champions, MacFarland, A. J. Clark,
and Pye, took a few turns out on the Carlton Oval, in an
alleged sports meeting, by way of breaking themselves in
to grass riding for the big meeting. The ground was in
its usual place, and several bikists happened along; but
the crowd had lost itself on the road, likewise the
prizes were as small as the attendance. Neverthe-
less, two world’s champions and the holder of the
five-mile record of this earth pursued one another
many times round the grass for the edification
of about 200 adults and 20 small boys. A mile handicap
went to R. H. Lynch on the 160yds. mark, and even in the
5-mile scratch the three once mighty warriors finished in
the ruck, the all-pervading Thomas pushing his jigger
home first, Bob Morgan second, and P. Hehir third.
Looking at the circumstance casually, this paper has a
suspicion that the M. 8.0. would be in pocket if it
dropped the Austral altogether for a space or so, and
handed Thomas a moderate sum as the equivalent of
his chance.
* * * *
The British Museum authorities have ap-
proached S. F. Edge, the Napier driver who drove his car
for 24 hours at the average speed of 65J miles an hour
round the Brooklands track. The Museum wants the
Dunlop-shod, six-cylinder, 60-h.p. petrol car just as it
stands, to show future generations what sort of a
vehicle it was that first carried man over a mile a
minute for a full day. To make the thing really com-
plete, Edge himself should be carefully stuffed and
seated in the car, just to show what sort of men they
were who did it. There is no reason why Egyptian
kings and queens should have a monopoly of the lime-
light in the hoary old Museum.
* » * *
“ Quan ” : Bulletin (31/10/’O7) mentions several
branches of sport, etc., in which Australians hold first
place. It’s a very decent little lot, but I want to add
another item to it. John Hamilton, of Queensland, holds
the world’s revolver record, 123 points out of a possible
126, made in 1897. The merit of this performance may
be gauged from the fact that the whole of Hamilton’s 18
shots were fired consecutively, while Warrant-Officer
Raven, of the visiting British rifle team, who has been
champion revolver shot of Great Britain for three years,
and who won the revolver championship of Queensland in
Brisbane last month with a score of 117, got that total
under new rules, which allowed him to count his best six
consecutive shots at each of the 20, 30, and 50yds. ranges.
Hamilton did not shoot in the last Brisbane contest.
* * * *
The half-smothered objections to theV.R.C.’s
control of Vic. racing bubbled up again in Melbourne
during Cup week, moved, apparently, by Wren’s Ascot
Two Thousand. Illogically enough, the irreconcilables
railed against the grasping policy of the proprietary race-
course owners, and then wept because the V.R.C.
wouldn’t let them run their nags at the unregistered
meetings—all proprietary. Rightly they claimed that
the big club had merely assumed control of racing, and
that a body properly representative of all racing clubs
throughout the State should undertake the job ; but they
didn’t explain how they proposed to enable such a body,
when elected, to get control. The only suggestion of any
value was that the tote should be legalised, and that the
profits thereof should be legislatively diverted from the
pockets of private course-owners. The English Jockey
Club allows proprietary clubs to snavel only 10 per cent,
of the profits, but the V.R.O. hasn’t thought fit to follow
such a good precedent.
» m * *
“ Billy T.” : The Spring Carnival in Melbourne
is becoming a painfully circumspect affair. As an artist
I ask for light and shade in all things ; at Flemington on
Derby, Oup, Oaks, and Steeple days there was no shade.
It was a flood of kindly light, a mammoth exhibition of
the bright side of human nature. There was no black-
guardliness to lend diversity, no sins and wickednesses
to provide effective color. Without wickedness we cannot
have literature, and Melbourne Cup will add nothing to
the sum of letters if the scamp, the spielers, and the man
witht.heintellectualgooseare rigorously forbidden. I know
the Jud and his kin talk with frothing lips of the scarlet
sins of Flemington, but in their eyes sin consists in the
prosaic operation of putting two spare half-crowns in the
bag of a raucous and excited Hebrew. To my mind, that
is a form of infamy as stainless as church tennis, and
scarcely lends the interest of a little white fib to the car-
nival. Talk about the Oup as a saturnalia 1 Why, on my
word of honor as a Sunday-school scholar, a Little Bethel
scrub picnic is a whirl of Pagan unrighteousness com-
pared with it. The fact is, Oup Day is becoming too good
to be true—too good to be true to human nature ; and
I am inclined to shed tears for its departed rascals, its
lost iniquity. The mug is safe at Flemington now, but is
he happy ?
* * « *
Joe Garter, who rode Flying Doe, the winner
of the first Victorian Derby (1856)—time, 3min. lsec. —
may still be seen at the more important Vic. race meetings.
* ■* * *
Melb. Gap winner Apologue should be worth
every penny of the £l5OO paid by the Indian buyer. On
the day before he was auctioned the horse received
another good advt. in the Williamstown Cup victory of
Thackeray’s. Thackeray was backed down to 6 to 1 on
the strength of his having run second to Apologue at
Caulfield over the same distance (11 furlongs) at a differ-
ence of 301 b. or more. Judging from their running at
Caulfield, the burly Maorilander could have won the
Williamstown Cup, with 9.12 up. In his absence,
Thackeray got home with a bit to spare. Before being
shipped to India, next year, Apologue—now transferred
to Higinbotham’s stable—is to be raced in any w.f.a.
events that offer, and if he should meet his late stable
companion, Poseidon, punters will take short odds about
his chance.
* « * *
Chairman Reid, of Victorian Owners and
Trainers’ Association, has discovered that horse-breeding
in Victoria is a dying industry. Twenty-five years ago
Victoria had 752 brood mares to N.S.W.’s 762. Twenty-
two years later Victoria’s lot had shrunk to 640, while
N.S.W. had increased to 1440; and at present the Ma
State leads with 1500 to 600 ; and at last Randwiek sales
blood yearlings brought £40,000, as against £4OOO realised
at Newmarket (Vic.).
.*• * *
At Rosehill Club’s two-days Birthday meeting
the heads were literally tugged off some of the weU-
backed-by-the-public nags to prevent them winning.
Amply-justified-by-previous-form backing of horses had
to be carried on at buying-money rates, after which the
horses suddenly slithered into rank outside positions.
Which taught the public that if it will get on before the
stable it must pay the penalty. A. J.C. stipendiaries were
there, but were as dull as usual.
Most promising two-year-old seen in Sydney
for a long while is Malt Queen, by Malster from Her
Majesty. The geegee was backed solidly in Rosehiil
Nursery Stakes, Saturday, and showed utter contempt
for 14 other starters, none of which, but Maid Merton, had
raced before.
• * * *
“ Gr. Elb.Poseidon won the Melbourne Cup
last year carrying 7st. 61b., and Apologue this year
humped the awful burden of 7st. 91b. I’m afraid there is
almost as much snuffle about racing as about religion.
Racing improves the stamina of the noble prad—ye gods,
when the champions carry 7st. mannikins ! The modern
gee of the city racecourse is a polished, finely-drawn gal-
loping machine, warranted to run down early. There are
very few races of over 1£ mile ; the majority are Sheol-
for-leather sprints. A hoss that can win over two miles,
when carrying about 9 stone in all, is spoken of with bated
breath ; but it is a fragment of a man who can ride at
under 10 stone, and, except on a racecourse, two miles is
no distance at all. lam not Judding, but why can’t we
be honest about the business ?
* * » *
C. Quinn, the Adelaide trainer, has made what
the local papers call a “ rather peculiar discovery” about
the gelding Fruitful, bought as a yearlirg at the Sydney
sales last March. Fruitful has run in several races in
Melbourne, claiming the usual allowance, and now it
appears that he is—well, not a gelding 1 Fortunately he
did not win any of those races, or a curious position
would have arisen.
* * * *
Last week, in M.L., 13 bookmakers were sent to
gaol for two months, and five others for one month, for
trespassing on a racecourse and betting in opposition to
the totalisator. There’s no hope for Ilcey Mo in Maori-
land, and the law is evidently sufficiently strong to keep
illegal betting strictly under heel.
• * * *
“M.P.A.”: Grus Rennert’s display against
Buttan Sjngh, t’other week, fully substantiated B.
6/6/’O7, which classed him as a showman, and Singh as
the real pea. “Hank” (8.13/6/’O7) commented on the
aforesaid par, and plumped solid for Gus as a hall-
marked fiackenschmidite. Apart from exhibition
goes, Rennert had no claim as a match ’rastler,
and his association with the Russian was his
only means of securing recognition. Hackey’s many
companion ’rastlers have been fine to gaze upon, but
there it finished. The champion taught them nothing,
except what he required in music-hall displays.
Except in the case of Kock, a fine German athlete,
who had won many tournaments, Hackey’s companions
were blanks, and Gus was no exception. The only
grappler of any chop who came Australiawards on the
companion ticket was Charles Axa, and he was a Graeco-
Romanist.
* » » *
At the Athletic Pavilion, Melbourne, the other
evening, two lightweight Australian championships were
decided in a couple of hours. Horace Prime, an
Australian wrestler, beat Lew Langford, of England,
getting two clean falls out of the British specialist in
short order. Then Sydneysider Hock Keys, Australia’s
brightest lightweight, put it across Hughie Meeghan, the
Melbourne lad who has come up towards the top very
suddenly. Meeghan is a clever, game lad, but he has a
lot to learn before it will be in him to whip Keys, who has
raised the art of lodging his own blows and frustrating
the other fellow’s, to an exact science. Keys lacks
punishing power, however, and Meeghan was still with
him when the 20th round was called on. Kej's won on
points.
• * * *
“J.G.”: I saw a man the other day at one
of the Victorian up-country townships who bought an old-
fashioned, hard-tyre boneshaker bike for three half-
crowns. The tyres promptly flew to pieces. The cyclist
then used up two balls of binder twine, which he bound
round the hike wheels to act as tyres. Next day, after
he had got over about a mile of his trip to Melbourne, his
twine tyres started to cut out, and the cyclist left a trail
of mangled twine behind him. Being a bit of an in-
ventive genius, he dismounted, and cut out about a
hundred yards of No. 8 wire from a cocky’s fence, and
bound it round his machine wheels in place of the twine.
After a few hours’ hard graft he again started. And
although the machine weighed something under a ton,
and made a row akin to that of a traction engine, the
rider seemed to get up a fair pace on it when going
down hill.
• * *
Dusky cricketer Ranjitsinhji recently insti-
tuted a royal (coffee-colored) cricket team, and imported
the Sussex (Eng.) cracks, Vine anr | q ox> coach the
mgs. Now he has further added top-notch stumper
Lilley to the imperial leather-belting staff.
* * •
“ Talbot ’’ : London Referee, tired of drawn
matches, propounds a new system of cricket. It is
simply that each batsman have a fixed time at the
wickets—say half-an-hour ; that he make all he can, and
be penalised for each time he gets out—say 10 for the
first time, 20 for the second, and so on. The disadvan-
tages of the scheme are obvious, but it has its good
points. Every game would last a definite, pre-arranged
time, and, given fine weather, no game could be drawn.
Busy men could play more, because when their side was
in they would need only attend for half-an-hour at a given
time ; and the spectator wanting to see Jessop or Clem
Hill could consult the advertised time, and would not be
disappointed if the favorite got “out” first ball. Slow
batting would be at a discount. Also, though the Referee
hasn t thought of it, all-round players would flourish,
because the mere bowler who got out eight or ten times
in his half-hour would lose the side more runs than he
was worth ; finalty, it would be an immense advan-
tage for a side to bat last, and know just how many runs
it must make in the time to win.


KUGELMANN’S
7
m
rt^yrMS
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty’s
Aid/'
FR.EE
sample
•ent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pa
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
FI. B. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarenee St., SYDNEY
An AT ADELAIDE ahd BRISBANE.
- ■ v V
m
Reduced
Trips
Round
the
World.
Do you want to
Travel?
Can you afford the
time and money ?
THE problem, how to travel without leaving your home, is now effectively solved by Messrs.
Underwood and Underwood, of London and New York. The system is based
upon the principle of the stereograph, consisting of two slightly dissimilar photographs,
which, if viewed with a scientifically-built stereoscope, gives you the third dimension of depth,
or perspective, exactly as you would see with the naked eyes.
These outlooks are arranged in Tour form just as you would visit a country, each Tour
being accompanied by Patent Maps and a Guide Book.
The System is an admirable one, and of untold value to one who has not the time or money
for travel, or for those who intend making a trip.
Call and inspect , or write for particulars to—
117 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
A. K. ZIMMERMAN,
Sole Importer for Australasia.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
" REFEREE ” says The prince of living
A s troiogers. ’ ’
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (o f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Got Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
ALL GOOD AUSTRALIANS (by either birth or
adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Apply for petition forms to
JOHN B. STEEL, 192 Castle re agh Street, SYDNEY.
m
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10 /-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Tree to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Thk Bulletin.] [5
X.
Hil
Aa a cyclist you know you have to
encounter difficulties “on both sides
the hill ” —the
Eadie Two»Speed Coaster
enables you to overcome them aIL
It has been called “ the hub of many
merits” —it embodies IN ONE SHELL
a high gear for the level—a low gear
for the hill —a free-wheel on BOTH
gears—and a back-pedalling brake of
absolute efficiency. It makes hill-
climbing easy and coasting a delight.
Specify it in your next new mount
and have this built of
EHDIE FITTINGS
[Ask your DealerJ
D. T. RENNIE, representing- Birm ng-
ham Small Arms Co., Ltd., 4 Stock Ex-
change Buildings, Collins St., Melbourne
Works : REDDITCH, ENGLAND.
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Cat AKRH is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’ treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
A CHEERFUL COMPANION
Write for
FREE Pamphlet.
“An Expert’s Test” :
It will help you to
choose the kind ©1
Talking Machine you
want.
COLUMBIA
PHONOGRAPH CO.
GEN'L,
255 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Largest Talking
Machine Manufac-
turers in the World.
FOR EVERY FAMILY CIRCLE.
It’s heard Everywhere but in your Home.
Why not rectify this omission?
OUR SPECIAL PANAMA
AT 15/6 POST FREE.
THIS IS THE PANAMA.
This is the Panama which we claim
to be the best offered in Sydney at
the price.
We have it in several different
shapes, in all widths of brim and in
every size
It is smart, and looks and wears
like a two-guinea one.
Christmas is only a few weeks off—
you’ll want a Panama for the
holidays, won’t you ?
Buy it NOW and get the full
benefit of it.
Order at once, and remember that
we will refund money should you not
care for it when we send it.
OTHER PRICES 12/6 and 21/- POST FREE.
MURDOCH’S
In PARK STREET,
SYDNEY.
Where the Good Hats Are. 1
THE BEST FUN EVER
The NU-FACE MASKS
QUITE
NOVEL
Only
Bd.
posted
Slip on and off in
an Instant
AMAZING . .
. . CHANGES
puzzle your friends
Absolutely Unrecognisable
IMMENSE FOR PARTIES
AND PICNICS
'T'H.E Nu-Face Masks are
quite different from
anything you have ever
seen. They fit closely over
the face, and can be rut on
or off in an instant. The
shape of your face is un-
changed, but the expression
. ’
w
MASK OFF.
TRY
ONE
is altered beyond recog-
nition. This is what
nuzzles every-
body. You can have
ots of fun. There are
Twelve Dif f • rent
Face 8: The Smiler,
Grandma, The Geisha
Girl, The Motor Man. P.ous
Pete, Jolly Masher, Doleful
Dan, Country Cousin. Dad’s
Way back. Uncle John. Man-
darin and Hoogenheimer. Prices : One Mask for Eight Pence,
'hree for Is. 9d., Six for 35., Tweive for ss. 6d.; we pay
carriage. Obtainable only from THE UNION
COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUGRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Addkess : THE EUCRASY CO»»
©2 Hunter Street, Sydney,
A POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
e
*
/
/
,
\ ;
7
w.'.>
w
e^d
r\s*^
CsTO
nrrw
A
<O3l
TYRES
SQUARE
TREADS.
The Continental
Square Tread
Tyre has estab-
lished a world-
wide reputation
for durability.
And its popu-
larity is wide-
spread—in Eng-
land, the United
States, France,
Germany, here
at home in Aus-
tralia —in fact,
wherever Mo-
toring is in-
dulged in to any
extent, you will
find the Conti-
nental Square
Tread Tyres to
the front.
Sydney Depot:
Clarence Street.
mts
NON-
SKIDS.
There is no bet-
ter Tyre made
for use on wet
roads than these
Continental
Non-Skids, and
every day wit-
nesses an in-
creased demand
for them by
Australian mo-
torists.
These Tyres
have distin-
guished them-
selves in nearly
all the big mo-
toring events of
the past season.
Ask to see these
CONTINENTAL
NON-SKIDS.
Melbourne Depot:
46 & 48 Market St.


WRITE
FOR.
A. SAUNDERS’ FREE BOOK
DO IT
NOW.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND, Telescopic
Mirror, Solid Oak Base, Badger
Bristles,
Post 21/- Free.
Other Styles, 10/6, 14/6, 17/6, 25/-.
It illustrates and describes over 3000 beautiful illustrations, and is filled
with helpful suggestions. It will help you to solve your Gift Problem.
SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Peggy BAG, Morocco Leather,
Silk Sewn, Nicely Fitted,
Post 8/0 Pree.
Other Styles, 6/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Double INKSTAND, Oxidised Base, Copper
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
Post 25/- Pree.
With Crystal Glass Base, 20/-.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-,
Mounts
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND, Swing Mirror, fitted
with Shaving Brush, Soap Bowl, and Paper Clip,
Black Wooden Base.
Post 25/- Free.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 1 6, 20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ HANDBAGS, Morocco
Leather, in Black or Brown,
Post 12/6 Pree.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/-.
WE WANT
YOU
TO KNOW
that faraway patrons
receive the same care-
ful attention we have
always given to local
patrons. Mail orders
receive prompt atten-
tion.
A. SAUNDERS.
Rapid Focussing, Field or Marine GLASS, Morocco
Leather Covered, Achromatic Lenses, Sharp and
Clear, with Leather, Sling and Case,
Fost £2/10/- Free.
Other Styles, 25/-, SO/-, 35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-.
FREE
CARRIAGE
TO THE
COUNTRY.
Our system of Free
Carriage on all goods
to any part of Aus-
tralasia means a big
saying to you. Order
to-day.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Chain PURSE, Seal
Leather, Pure Silver Mounts
and Lock.
Post 15/6 Pree.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/-,
17/6. 20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ iZylonite HAIR BRUSH, extra long
Fine White Bristles,
Post 5/6 Pree.
Other Styles, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gemt.’s SHAVING ROLL, comprising Finest
Sheffield Steel Razor, Com Knife, Scissors,
and Corkscrew, Leather Roll,
Post 12/6 Pree.
Other Styles, 15/-, 21/-, 25/-.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ or Gent.’s TRAVELLING ROLL, fitted
with every convenience, Leather Roll,
Double Lock,
Post 20/- Pree.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Strap PURSE and CARD CASE combined,
Black Morocco Leather, Pure Silver Mounts
and Lock.
Post 8/6 Free.
Other Styles, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome 8-day MARBLETTE CLOCK, first-class movement, strikes hours and halts,
Cathedral Gong, Richly Ornamented Case, Bron zette Mountings, 12 inches high.
Post 4:0/- Pree.
Other Styles, 20/-, 25/-, SO/-, 35/-, 40/-, 42/6, 45/-, 50/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Special Value Zylonite MANICURE SET, comprising
9 Articles, in Silk-lined Case,
Post 15/6 Free.
Other Styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO POUCH,
Rubber-lined, Pure Silver
Shield,
Post 4/6 Pree.
Other Styles, 3/6, 5/6,
6/6. 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco Leather PURSE, Silk
Sewn, Sterling Silver Lock,
Post 7/6 Pree.
With Nickel Lock, 5/6. Smaller, 4/6.
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
•V-. 1
«|:sa
ill
A. SAUNDERS.
Imitation Lizard Skin PURSE,
Light Shades, Silver Mounted,
Post 4/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Real Ebony HAIR BRUSH, Long Fine
Bristles, Pure Silver Mounted.
Post 12/6 Pree.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/-, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET-BOOK, Morocco Leather, Pure
Silver Mounts and Lock,
Post 10/6 Pree.
Other Stvles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
/ill mI
" ,i
;| !
Si
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ VANITY BAG, Green Crush Morocco
Leather. Silk Lined,
Post 20/- Pree.
With Double Silver Lock. 25/.
Other Styles, 17/6, 20/-, 25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET BOOK, Crocodile Leather, Gold, Cedar,
or Green Shades, Calf Lined, with Sterling
Silver Mounts and Lock,
Post 25/- Pree.
Other Styles, 15/-, 17/6, 20/-, 22/6, 25/-.
Sydney’s Leading JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH,
and OPTICIAN.
A. SAUNDERS,]
807, 809,811,813,815,817
GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY.
Opp. Hew
Railway-
Station.


AK
D
IT Proprietary
Limited
Direct attention to the advantage of using a Stand Camera equally well adapted to Films and Plates.
WITHOUT ALTERATION
TO THE CAMERA
Your Glass Plate Outfit can be
fitted witb an Adapter taking tbe
Daylight Loading Premo Film Pack
containing Twelve Flat Films,
■
C&i/CtfKfli
tftPJiieJo
In the place of the ordinary double dark slide, but taking up no more room, the glass plate stand
camera figured herewith carries a simple adapter containing material for twelve pictures. This adapter
can be fitted to your camera for a few shillings, and it will appeal to you because, while weighing
but a few ounces, it trebles the scope of your outfit. Film pack negatives are every bit as good as
those on glass plates ; you can focus every picture on the ground glass ; you can remove any film
for development without waiting until all are exposed.
BAKE® & MOUSE Proprietary Limited
... SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS iot PREMOS and KODAKS ...
375 <& 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
BILIOUSNESS.
If you recognise that the Liver is the sewage
farm of the body, you will see the
importance of its free action.
The blood is easily poisoned by morbid pro-
ducts formed within the body, and
delayed in excretion.
A lazy liver is responsible for constipation,
the greatest disease —breeding disorder
of the body.
The retention of septic matter in the bowels
is a constant source of danger, affecting
blood and nerves.
The question is—How can we keep the liver
in order?
According to the most distinguished medical
evidence, the Liver is amenable to
Kutnow’s Powder.
The Liver is responsive to the action of
Kutnow’s Powder, without the patient
being hardly aware of it.
Kutnow’s Powder is delightfully gentle, pain-
less, and soothing, but its beneficial
effect does not finish with the Liver.
It flushes the kidneys, cleanses the bladder,
regulates the bowels, clears and purifies
the whole alimentary canal.
No artificial remedy can supersede the
natural efficiency of Kutnow’s Powder,
it has an immediate effect.
It makes you feel relieved and gay ; you can
then put your heart into your work and
do your best.
It gives you vigor, and vigor is contagious,
furnishing untiring strength and vital
force.
An inactive Liver has a most depressing
effect on the temperament, but Kutnow’s
Powder quickly relieves the tension.
Kutnow’s Powder keeps every organ in the
body fit, free, and in thorough working
order, hence health follows as matter of
course.
THE LIVER
ITS USE AM ABUSE.
The Liver, like the Kidneys and other organs, is liable to
various acute and chronic diseases. It is the great wheel of
life’s machine ; it regulates the whole mechanism of man ;
when it works well—then every other gland and factor in the
system works well, and there is general good health. That is
the use of the Liver. The abuse is brought about by our
mode of living; the consumption of rich food and alcoholic
stimulants is a conscious abuse ; we know it, but neglect to
arrest the damage by neutralising and correcting the mischief
until the liver becomes sluggish. The first sign of oncoming
disorder is headache, then a disagreeable taste in the mouth,
loss of appetite, biliousness, and constipation. The remedy
for this state of affairs is a dose of that famous Liver regulator, >
Kutnow’s Powder. A desert spoonful in a glass of water,
before breakfast, acts like a refreshing bath on the whole ,
system ; it cleanses the stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels,
and gets rid of the poisonous debris so injurious to health.
I
TO KEEP THE LIVER ACTIVE. /
Perhaps you are not aware that the enjoyment of life-
depends to a large extent on the healthy activity of the Liver.
If you wish to enjoy your food, to be able to digest almost
anything, take a few doses of Kutnow’s Powder, which rouses
the liver, flushes the food passages, clears away the sour
fermented debris, expels the surplus uric acid, and invigorates
the system.
A FAMOUS ROYAL ACADEMICIAN
WHITES :
“ 1 Abbey Road, St. John’s Wood, N.W.
“I have used Kutnow’s Powder for the last five years, and it has
added to the pleasure of my life. I take a tablespoonful every morn-
ing when I rise, and find it a most refreshing drink. I have never
needed to increase the dose, and is has acted perfectly in assisting
Nature all this time. lam now strong and healthy, and give you
my experience, which may be useful,
‘‘JOHN MacWHIRTER, R.A.”
THE REMEDY.
Are you anxious to maintain the healthy
action of the liver and kidneys and to per-
manently eradicate constipation? Then send
to the nearest chemist for a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder. This will set you right.
Dr. H. FORESTIER
WEXTES :
“ Aix-les-Bains, Oct. 2nd, 1905.
<‘l have frequently prescribed Kutnow’sPowder
for my patients, and always found it most useful
in uric aid troubles, Rheumatism and brout. It
has also proved itself very beneficial in cases of
Constipation and Hemorrhoids. My experience,
both in hospital and private practice, shows that
Kutnow’s Powder greatly helps to correct faulty
tissue metabolism.
H. FORESTIER, M.D.”
((Physician to the Evangelical Hospital and the
Thermal Hospital of A-ix-lex-Baius).
UNIVERSITY GRADUATE
WRITES :
“ 9 Belvidere Place, Dublin.
j“ I feel bound to add my grateful testimony to
the merits of Kutnow’s Powder. Although
having no faith in any medicine for the h»oitual
and severe'Constipation I have sufiered from for
nearly 20 years, I procured a bottle. Its effect
was all that I could desire, bringing about a
gentle, natural action, almost unfelt, and leaving
the bowels in a healthy, natural state.
“F. W. BUTLER (8.A.).”
How to detect Fraudulent
Substitutes.
Be careful to avoid -spurious subs tutes, which are
sometimes sold for a tew pence less. The purchaser,
through a misdirected spirit of economy, little thinks
that he is the means of a direct incentive to fraud. The
genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly
recommended by all leading!physicians for the stomach,
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow s,
which you can obtain at all conscientious chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile signatuie,
“S. Kutnow and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Deep,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imitations
and know
How to get genuine Kutnow’s
Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & GO., LYi., 41 Farrs sigrion Road, London, E.G^ o


'
m
m
a
MEM
If yo\i are
thirsty
v
fry
*
gias
::
e?
of
s
“ MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Limt Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
J._ C. Williamson presents the Delightful Comedy,
in four acts, by Winchell Smith and Byron Ongley,
adapted from George Barr McCutcheon’s Novel,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted by J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON
and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Brilliant Success of
J. 0. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY 00.
IN
THE BLUE MOON.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND.
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrovk.
Suh-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
LAST WEEKS.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION.
THE LAND OF GOLD.
By George Darrell.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
iALACE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING,
RICHARD LESLEIGH presents
THE INCOMPARABLE CARTER,
WORLD’S MASTER MAGICIAN,
in conjunction with
THE FAMOUS MISS ABIGAIL PRICE,
The Psvchic Marvel of the Age.
ALLAN SHAW’S 'COIN CONJURING CONCEITS.
Popular Prices. Box Plan at Paling’s.
AXFORD THEATRE, SYDNEY,
GEORGE STREET, bet. Bathurst & Liverpool Sts.
Lessee and Director : Mr. William Crawley.
SECOND WEEK, and SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of
MACMAHON’S GREAT PICTURE DRAMA,
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Picture of the Century. Cost £lOOO. Has Made All
Sydney Talk. Witnessed by 14,000 and hundreds turned
away nightly. Dress Circle, 2/- ; Stalls, 1/- ; Back, 6d.
TOURING VICTORIA,
THE MUSICAL
ALL BLACKS
AND THEIR
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of all our Great Artists—
ARTHUR CROXON, Comedian, Mimic, and Monologue
Entertainer.
HENRI ALEXANDER, in his unique Specialty Act.
FIVE WHITELEYS, Amazing and Original Wire Walking,
Acrobatic and Musical Pot Pourri.
TOM DAWSON, The Popular Comedian, with New Songs.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicians.
MDLLE. RHODESIA, the Society Lady Juggler.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy Artists.
RAY & CALDEN, Comedy Sketch Artists.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES—Grand Prix Motor Race.
LA SYLPHE, Classical Eccentric Dancer.
Plan at Allan’s. Jt2T PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. 0. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Reigning
London Gaiety Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
STILL DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn's New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH,
—in—
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
A PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFIT FOR EIGHT SHILLINGS
THE IMPRIMIS CAMERA
QUARTER PLATE SIZE, 4% x INCHES
WITH VIEW FINDER
Free Book on Photography for Early Bayers
BRITISH
MADE
DOUBLE DARK
SLIDE.
Printing Frame
DEVELOPING
AND FIXING
CHEMICALS.
DRY PLATES
PRINTING PAPER
CARD MOUNTS
FULL DIRECTIONS
Only 8/-
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
THIS is the last
chance of buying
a cheap Photo-
graphic Outfit. It
would be impossible
to sell at this price if
these goods had not
been landed before
the imposition of the
new tariff, that has
nearly doubled the
duty. The Imprimis
Camera is British
made. It takes
Full-size Quar-
ter Plate Pic-
tures, X
inches (about the size
of this advt.), that
are large enough for
Good Portraits, Fine landscapes and Interior Views. The Shutter makes time and
Instantaneous exposures, and there is a good View Finder. The back is hinged and fitted with a
special carrier for the double dark slide (as illustrated). With each Camera will be supplied a
Double Dark Slide, a Printing Frame, Dry Plates, Printing Paper, Card Mounts, Developing and
Fixing Chemicals and Full Printed Instructions. We have nearly 100 Books on Elementary
Photography, and, while they last, one will be enclosed without charge with each Camera if you
mention this paper when ordering. The early buyers get the books. The price of the
Complete Outfit as described is ONLY EIGHT SHILLINGS, and we pay carriage
to any address in the world. If you want a Camera, order at once; do not delay, or you may
be disappointed, and miss the Free Book. Send Postal Notes of any State.
THE UNION COMPANY, 290 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Amusements. -
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
The Great Australian Story,
ROBB KRY UNDER ARMS.
also MORRISSEY AND HIS SNAKES.
THE MELBOURNE CUP RACE, 1907.
Illustrated by the Latest and Most
Up-to-date Biograph.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT, NOVEMBER 23,
ANDREW MACK & CO.
FOR SEVEN NIGHTS ONLY.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY - TOM MOORE.
WEDNESDAY .. .. THE WAY TO KENMARE.
THURSDAY - 1 ACK SHANNOA.
FRIDAY, SATURDAY .. .. ARRAH NA POGUE.
Brices—s/-, 3/-, 2/- Plan at Allan s.
Marriage Notice.
ROBERTSON-ANDERSON.-On October
9th, at Westminster Cathedral, London,
by Revd. F. R. Hamilton MacDonald, William L.
Robertson (of George Thompson & Co., London),
to Jean I. Anderson, second daughter of Charles
Anderson (Charles Anderson & Co., Ltd.), of
“Durham Hall,” Albion Street, Sydney.
Insurance.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
The •
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CRKBON PRIM'
FOR
5 YEASS^
:
■
FIRE PROOF
STOPS LEAKS
PREVENTS RUST -
FOR ANYTHING
REQUIRINGTHE
USE OF A
FIRST CLASS
PAINT'"*®
J*fam/fc?cf£/re£f on/y by
TMjfflAi a
cLcyaAm a us.a.
m
'E
&
n
m
X,
SB*
St-'
X
Write for Samples and Further Particulars.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Dalgety & Co*, Ltd*, Sydney, Brisbane & Adelaide; Tasmanian Woolgrowers Agency Co*
W* D* Moore & Co*, and Harris, Scarfe & Co*, Ltd., Fremantle; J* S* Munro &
Head Office: The Atlantic Refining Co*, Melbourne*
Launceston, Tas*;
Co*, Zeehan, Tas.


a
L/71U7
WEL
PROPRIETARY LIMITED.
EXTRAORDINARY
RIBBON PURCHASE
We Have purchased Two Enormous Parcels of Fancy
Ribbons, comprising; Chenes, Checks, Stripes, and
ALL THE LATEST PRODUCTIONS.
No. 8036.—801 d Bose Chene, with different colored edges, 6d. per yard
also in wider widths at 9id. £er yard.
No. 6125. —Yery Pretty Chen e, with various colored Roses. Price, Is. per yard.
■ W§ '
No. 6110. —Bright Color Chene, with various colored edges. Price, Is. 6d. per yard.
-
.
No. 2670. —Very Handsome Stripe Chene, various colored stripes. Price, Is. 6d. per yard.
No. 6115.—1 n Bold Chene Effects, Pink and Blue Roses, with different colored edges. Price, Is. 6d. per yard.
'jpHESE have been bought at far
less than Manufacturers’ prices,
and we are able to sell them AX
LESS THAN HALF THE USUAL
PRICES asked for these goods.
Here are a few plates showing a
small portion of the designs, of
which there are some hundreds,
and the colorings are most varied
and beautiful. If desired, patterns
will be forwarded on application,
or, if ordered and not suitable,
Ribbons may be returned.
i
No. 9391.— Rich Paisley Border, with Chene Centre of Roses, in varied colors. Price, 2s. per yard.
■
.
%
No. 488. —Bold Rose Design of Chene, with different colored edges. Price, 2s. per yard.
o
o
o
o
FlnnsAff:
r Q>CQ>
M
Mi
.OP.


a
&
tzuUnv
... NEW ...
EDISON
a
fidtiaiv
Gold-Moulded RECORDS
ON SALE NOW. 1/6 each.
Call in and ask; your nearest dealer to play a few of these over for you.
You can always tell the Genuine EDISON Goods by Mr. Edison's
Signature, which is printed on each as a trade-mark.
American Selections for Odober.
9650 The Triumph of Old Glory (Pryor)
Edison Concert Band
9651 There’s a Girl in the World for Every Boy and
a Boy for Every Girl (Snyder)
Irving Gillette
9652 I’m in Love with the Slide Trombone (Furth)
Ada Jones
9653 Chapel in Woods (Lange) Albert Benzler
9654 That’s Gratitude (Camp) Bob Roberts
9655 My Mother’s Bible (Tillman)
Anthony and Harrison
9656 Flanagan at the Vocal Teacher’s (Original)
Steve Porter
9657 Velvet of the Rose Waltz ( Barnard )
Edison Symphony Orchestra
9658 Birds in Georgia Sing of Tennessee (Ball)
Reed Miller
9659 Will You Be My Teddy Bear ? (Hoffman)
Ada Jones & Billy Murray
9660 There’s Always Something Wrong (Cole &
Johnson) Arthur Collins
9661 Siamese Patrol (Lincke) Edison Military Band
9662 As Long As the World Rolls On (Ball)
Reinald Werrenrath
9663 Just Help Yourself (Von Tilzer)
Collins and Harlan
9664 Meet Me, Sweet Kathleen, in Honeysuckle
Time (FI elf) Manuel Romain
9665 Medley of Straight Jigs (Original)
John Kinnnble
9666 Take Me Back to New York Town (Von Tilzer)
Lilian Doreen
9667 Snow Bird Mazurka (Wohanka) Joe Belmont
9668 In the Land of the Buffalo ( Van Alstyne)
Billy Murray
9669 Esthetic Galop ( Fahrbach )
Edison Hungarian Orchestra
9670 No, No, Positively No ! ( Smith and Brown)
Edward Meeker
9671 Chimmie and Maggie in Nickel Land ( Original )
Ada Jones and Len Spencer
9672 Dixie Minstrels ( Original ) Edison Minstrels
9673 I’d Rather Two-Step Than Waltz, Bill Medley
( Original) Edison Military Band
British Seledtions for September.
13623 The Bohemian Girl, Overture (Balfe)
National Military Band
13624 The Seaside Smile (Lyle) Miss Vesta Tilley
13625 A Letter from Rachel Levy Jordan & Harvey
13626 Without You (MacEvoy) Gwilym Riehards
13627 Oh, Girls! Never Trust a P’lieeman ( Barclay )
Miss Yolande Noble
13628 The Little Shirt My Mother Made for Me
(Wincott) Tom Wootwell
13629 Soon I’m Leaving Dublin Town ( Mellor
Lawrance & Gifford) Andrew Olayton
13630 I Wish I Had a Pal Like You (Gross)
Miss Victoria Monks
13631 Jean from Aberdeen (Murphy & Lipton)
Billy Williams
13632 Koh-i-noor March (Farban)
National Military Band
National Phonograph Co. of Australia. Ltd..
Dept. “ B,” 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding: Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
EIGHT YEARS SUFFERING.
A PERMANENT CURE.
THE CASE OF MRS. A. WEAVER.
BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.
o one can tell the self-denying work which
good men have done in the early days of this
country, neither can we exaggerate the nobleness
of spirit which animates present-day people in a
desire to ameliorate distress as much as lies in their
power. Therefore, the public should be informed
ot some of these efforts, one of which was made by
Mrs. Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis Street, Redfern,
who replied to the reporter by saying :
About this time last year I was living in
lelopea Street, and it was just before I left there
for this place that I was fortunate in casting aside
a complaint that had worried me for no less than
n'j v.^ earS ‘ a fearful life of suffering mine
had been all that time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in the world could benefit me made my
spirits droop lower than they will ever be again
I hope.”
“What made you think that nothing could
benefit you ? ” queried the writer.
, ‘‘ I arrived at that conclusion because nothing
had done me good so far, and I believe I tried
every medicine going. At the time my second
child was born I was under a doctor, who did
everything he could for rue, but still my health re-
mained as bad as it could be. Indeed, at that
period I was nearly dead with indigestion, al-
though I dieted myself and did all that could be
done to keep my torments in check. It was of no
avail, though, for when I ate anything I could
hardly breathe owing to a feeling which came like
a lump in my chest, from which place a sharp pain
went right through to the centre of my shoulders.
1 then remained in the utmost agony until the food
was vomited up again, after which I felt so ex-
hausted that I cquld not think of doing a thing in
the house until I had had a good rest. It would
surpriseyouifyou only knew how poor my appetite
was. You would wonder how anyone could keep
alive with it, and as for my head, oh, niy sufferings
with it were awful. The most piercing pains at
onetime, and the most depressingachesat another.
Really, I think it was a marvel how I kept my
senses with the agony I endured in the head ; and'i
it’s strange that I did not meet with many a nasty ,
accident through the giddiness which used to over- j
take me. I was a misery to myself and everybody
around me, and to tel] you the honest truth I never
thought I would live through it all. My eyes used
to feel heavy enough to drop out of their sockets,
and I was affected in the mouth by such a bitter
taste that it made me feel sick of a morning, after
putting in the usual restless nights that had done
much towards making a wreck of me. Even in the
daytime Iwasalwaysimagining something terrible
was going to happen, and these were just the very
things that Clements Tonic, which I commenced to
take, showed itself to be the master of; for it sent
such a vigor through my frame, when I had been
taking it a couple of weeks, that I could not help
feeling joyful in the belief that at last my health
had taken a beneficial turn. I got more Clements
Tonic, and as each bottle was finished, so did my
prospects improve, for I commenced to take my
meals with a degree of heartiness which astonished
my people as much as it pleased them ; and to my
own satisfaction anddelight theformer discomforts
attending my meals were quickly out of existence.
Oh, dear, what a changed woman I am now to then.
My limbs do not ache from weakness like they
formerly did, and I can go about my work as
cheerfully and as actively as any housewife in the
country. Ido not spend any restless nights now;
never dream during my sleep, and the pains that
used to abound have long since been driven away
from every part of my body. Well, Clements
Tonic made me the healthy woman I am, and for
the sake of other sufferers I trust you’ll publish
this interview in any way you think fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis Street, ltedfern, in the
State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, and that it contains, and is
a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements, which I give voluntary,
without receiving any payment, and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Signed) ALICE WEAVER.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this sixth day of
September, one thousand nine hundred and four, before
me, L. BREARLEY.
A MODERN ELECTRIC BATTERY
]y|EDICATj Electricity is used all over the World in every
Hospital and by every Doctor. But you can have a
Battery right in your own home.
Our Medical Battery is of the most modern type, and is
worked by means of simple dry cells. There are no acids to
spill or burn, and there is no trouble. The Battery will last six
months with daily use, and the refill Battery is cheap, and can
be put in by a child.
Many drugs are poisonous, and therefore harmful; hence
the argument in favor of Electrical treatment. Electricity does
nearly all that drugs can do, and leaves no poison behind in the
system. It is both a tonic and a sedative. Properly used, it is
a safe remedy that can be placed in the hands of any person of
ordinary intelligence.
This Battery will cure :
RHEUMATISM, SCIATICA, LUMBAGO and
NERVOUS DISORDERS, etc.
Price, 3 &/-, Post Free.
Booklet of Full Particulars sent Free anywhere.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., My Opticians,
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
DON'T GROWL
at your Razor if it scrapes and pulls—just try a Plum Razor and you
won’t want to growl, A Plum Razor will glide easily over your face
and give you as clean a shave as you ever had in your life. It will do
this every day in the year.
PRICE, 10/6 POST FRC£.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St, Sydney*
Established
25 Years.
i
v
//
A
<fr~
(5\
L-
J
>v
/
between having, and not having, an abundant supply of electricity in your
system is the difference between good health and bad health; it is the difference
between having a lively, vigorous, healthy body and a magnetic personality, and
being weak, sickly, nervous and afraid to venture. If you are one of those who
are weak, nervous and timid; if you suffer from Nervousness, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Varicocele, or any
ailment caused by a weakened and deranged organic system, and have doctored
and dosed yourself with drugs until your stomach turns from them in disgust; if
you are such, you will find the cure you have been seeking in Nature’s remedy
—Electricity—as applied with the world-famous
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
The most eminent scientists of the present day—Prof. O. S. Fowler, Prof. E.
S. Larkin, Prof. Jacques Loeb, and many others who have spent their lives in the
cause of ailing humanity—all proclaim electricity as the medicine of the future,
because, unlike drugs—with which the “cure” is often worse than the disease —it can
do no harm, and because, as Prof. Loeb says: “It is the basis of all human vitality.”
Here are some proofs of what it will do when properly used:
the dr. mclaughdin co
I have worn your Belt since the 12th October, 1906, up to Ist January, 1907, and I have
received a wonderful amount of good from it for what I might call a broken-down system,
having been a sufferer from Debility, Indigestion and General Weakness. I now feel quite a
different man in every way ; work is no trouble to me. I advise anyone suffering from any
of the above complaints to use a Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt, as I am sure it will bring
about a certain cure —WILLIAM E. ALDER,
Manning Road, via Gloucester, N.S.W.
the dr. mclaughlin co.
For some years I suffered from Internal Trouble, Aching Back, and Constipation. I tried
many doctors but got no relief, and hearing of your valuable Belt I c.ecided to try it. I received
your Belt eleven months ago, wore it, and now I am perfectly cured. I sincerely advise any
suffering woman to get your valuable Belt, for I am certain it will cure her. Wishing your
Belt every success.—Mrs. EMMA HARDING,
Springdale, Temora, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Improved Electric Belt is the standard electric body
battery 01 the world. We have branch offices in all the principal cities of Europe,
Asia, Africa, Canada and the United States. Our appliances have many imitators,
but no equals. Beware of Cheap Imitations. Write us for
our exposure of the free belt fraud. Our Belts are guaranteed not
to burn, blister or shock: the most sensitive person and are guaranteed
to give a powerful current which is instantly felt.
FREE
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated book which
every man and woman should read. It shows
how and why our Belts cure after the failure
of all other treatments. We will send it FREE
to all who write to us, and our Specialists will
give you a full diagnosis of your case — free. All communications are treated with
strict confidence. Office Hours: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Castlereag'h and Market Streets, Sydney.
IOBEPH R. CORCORAN


WHAT QUEENSLAND
CAN DO = !
QUEENSLAND can give better value than any other State in our Commonwealth. This isn’t a wild statement,
but a truism founded on economic reasons—which we won’t bother you about.
Here are a few suggestions for Christmas Giving, and we have issued a Christmas Catalogue which you
can have by merely saying that you want it ; so there is no excuse for you not getting Brisbane value.
FOR WOMEN.
Sterling Silver-mounted Articles.
Hairpin Bottles, Is 9d. White Glass Pomade Bottles,
Match Stands, Is 9d. Is 9d each.
Knife Rests, Is 9d. Yases, Is 9d each.
Puff Boxes, 7s lid, 10s 6d each. Hat Brushes, 9s 6d.
Pen Wipers, Is 9d each. Ring Stands, Is 9d each.
Six Sterling Silver-mounted Afternoon Tea Knives, 30s case.
Parasols.
Ladies’ Black Parasols, with Sterling Silver-mounted Handles,
2s lid, 3s lid, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Best Grades (name or initials engraved free of charge), 12s 6d,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 21s 6d, 23s 6d, 25s 6d, 29s 6d, 32s Gd.
Ladies’ Black Umbrellas, good durable covers, assorted handles,
silver mounts, 5s lid, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 10s 6d.
Name or initials engraved free of charge, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d,
21s 6d, 23s 6d, 25s 6d, 29s 6d, 35s 6d each.
Black Tucked Parasols, covers in silk and wool mixture, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d each.
Gloves.
Kid and Suede Gloves—the good old present—2s lid, 3s lid, 4s lid,
5s 6d, 5s lid, 6s 3d, 7s lid pair.
Thread Gloves, Is, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 3s lid.
Hand Kerchiefs.
Embroidered, 4s lid, 5s lid, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d,
14s 6d, 17s 6d, 22s 6d per dozen.
Very Special Handkerchiefs, Embroidered, 2s 3d, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s
6d, 3s lid, 4s 6d, 4s lid, 5s 6d, 5s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d
each.
Lawn, hemstitched, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s lid, 3s lid dozen.
Linen, hemstitched, 4s ,1 Id, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s
6d, 18s 6d, 22s 6d, 25s 6d, 28s 6d, 32s 6d dozen.
Fancy Boxes, containing Good Handkerchiefs, Is to 19s 6d box
Real Lace Handkerchiefs, from 4s lld to 49s 6d each.
Berthes.
Real Lace Berthes, 32s 6d to 45s 6d each.
Real Lace Collarettes, 6s 6d to 37s 6d each.
For the Housewife.
Irish Linen Serviettes, superior quality, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s
6d, 9s lid, 10s 6d per half-dozen.
Afternoon Tea Cloths, hemstitched and with drawn-thread work, 5s
lid, 6s lid, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s lid, 16s lid each.
Tray Cloths, as above, 2s 3d, 2s 9d, 3s lid, 4s 6d, 5s lid each.
D’Oyleys, as above, sd, 6d, 7d, 7Jd, 9d, 10id, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d each.
Runners, as above, 3s 6d, 3s lid, 4s 6d, 4s lid, 5s lid, 6s lid, 7s
"lid, 8s lid.
Embroidered Bedspreads—on white linen—lrish handwork—29s 6d,
35s 6d, 39s 6d, 425, 45s 6d, 49s 6d, 55s each.
FOR MEN.
Brushes.
Military Hair Brushes and Comb, in Leather Case, 7s lid, 9s lid,
10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d; 23s 6d case
Sterling Silver-mounted, in case, 32s 6d each.
Brush Sets, Wood, Hall, or Office Set; Hat and Cloth Brushes,
5s lid, 6s 9d set.
Cases.
Gentlemen’s Dressing Cases, 7s 6d, 8s lid, 9s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
14s 6d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s, 23s 6d, 24s 6d, 27s 6d to 50s.
Leather Cigar Cases, 6s 6d, 7s lid, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d,
17s 6d.
Cigarette Cases, 4s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d. Card
Cases, 2s 3d, 3s 6d each.
Leather Writing Desks, 5s 6d, 6s lid, 8s 6d, 11s 6d, 13s 6d each.
Leather Tourist Writing Cases, Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s 9d, 2s lid, 3s 6d,
4s 6d, 4s lid, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 6s lid, 7s lid, 8s 6d, 9s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s, 22s 6d,
255, 27s 6d, 29s 6d, 32s 6d, 35s each.
For the SmoKer.
Tobacco Pouches, with Silver Shields for Initials, 5s lid, 6s lid,
9s 6d, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d each.
Gent.’s Silver-mounted Leather Shaving Tidies, 8s lid.
Pipe Backs, Nickel Silver, 10s 6d, 11s 6d, 12s 6d.
Smokers’ Companions, 4s lid, 11s 6d, 16s 6d each.
Pipes—Presentation Pipe, in case, one, 4s 6d, 4s lid, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s lid, 10s 6d.
Pipe—Presentation Pipe, two in case, 11s 6d, 14s 6d, 16s 6d, 20s,
27s 6d case.
Umbrellas.
The New Handles—smart and useful; good material—built so as to
fold well, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d, 21s, 25s 6d, 30s, 35s
WalKing SticKs.
Silver-mounted Sticks (Crook or Hook Handles—say which when
ordering), 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 21s.
Panama Hats.
A splendid and most appreciated Christmas Present—Folding
Panamas, 15s, 21s, 255, 30s.
Hand Ker chiefs.
White Silk, Hemstitched, Is 6d, Is lid, 2s 6d, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 4s 6d,
5s 6d; with Initials, Is 9d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d.
White Silk, with Colored Borders, 2s lid, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d.
Linen Handkerchiefs, is each, 5s 6d half-dozen; Is 3d each, 6s lid
half-dozen ; Is 6d each, 8s half-dozen ; 2s each, 11s half-dozen ;
2s 6d each, 13s 6d half-dozen.
White Silkette, with Colored Borders, or plain White; or all
Colored, with designs—very smart—9d each, 4s half-dozen,
If desired, half-dozens will be done up in Fancy Boxes, and marked
with Initials, free.
Ties.
Every conceivable variety. Just tell us how much you want to
spend, the color desired, the style you wish, and leave the rest
to our taste, Is, Is 3d, Is 6d, Is 9d, 2s, 2s 3d, 2s 6d, 2s 9d, 3d.
»S>ilK Shirts.
With Collar and Pocket—a delightfully comfortable garment—
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s 6d.
FOR CHILDREN.
At Christmas Time, our immense basement is turned into a Fairy Cave with a Real Live Santa Claus to take charge of the Little Ones. We have
more Toys than ever this year. May we make you up a ss. parcel—a 10s. parcel—a 20s. parcel ? You’ll not be disappointed with our selection ;
just tell us the ages and sexes of the youngsters; we’ll do the rest—do it to your satisfaction and their delight.
FINNEY, ISLES ®. CO. Ltd
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
■ v. .. , '. 1, ~ ;/- . . .-'s'* C-'-V-- ,-j j
ALSO AT
Maryborough (Q.) London Murwillumbah (N.S.W)


6 IK
SEtJS
J'Mjj
&!$
<Birx
;u- < m
Julfflo
u **3«
SttHl
mZ*L]v
< ■
O^OC 0
m
For Preserving,Purifying
and Beautifying the Skin,
Scalp, Hair, and Hands.
1 Cuticura Soap combines delicate medicinal and emol-
lient properties derived from Cuticura, the great Skin
Cure, with the purest of saponaceous ingredients, and the
most refreshing of flower odors. Sold throughout the
■world. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
5 Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
Boston, U.S. A., 137 Columbus Ave., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props.
This Smart Goloshed
Tie Shoe.
IT is a very shapely little Shoe
■* with Cuban Heel and smart
Patent Cap. We have it in Australian
makes from 14/6, and also a similar style
by the. best American Manufacturers—Kruppendorrf,
Goodriches and Laird Schober—at an advance in price.
Men’s Glace Kid
Lace Bal at
18/6.
This Lace Bal is
one of the best for
every-day wear; it
is made of'the finest
soft Glac6 Kid, has a
welted sole, is ex-
tremely easy to the
foot, and may be had in
all the latest shapes, wide
and narrow toes, just as
you prefer. Price, 18/6.
Postage-Victoria, 9d. ; to
any other State, 1/-.
Let us send you our new Brochure, “ Shoelight”—it
illustrates both our Men’s and Ladies’ Lines.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swans ton Street, Melbourne,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne,
303 Chape / Street, Prahran.
U 5,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed 11! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry IS'
HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA.
Pears Annual
CHRISTMAS, 1907. READY NOVEMBER 25th.
(Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, LTD., 71-75 New Oxford Street. London.)
The Literary and Artistic Programme includes:—
Seven Great Tales
BY
Seven Great Authors
Geo. R. Sims, Barry Pain, The Baroness
Orczy, John Strange "Winter, W, Le Queux.
Frank Richardson, Cutcliffe Hyne-
Illustrated in Black and White and ip Tints, by
Seven Great Artists
Frank Dadd, R. 1., J. C. Dolman, A.R.W.S., Tom
Browne, R. 1., A. Forestier, Maurice Grieffenhagen,
Gordon Browne, R.l.', and Will Owen
In Handsome Coloured Cover, and accompanied by
Four Presentation Plates,
Each in about 13 Colours, viz.
“A Chip of the Old Block.”
By Fred Evans. Dedicated by special
permission to Lord Roberts, V.C., etc. '
“A Merry ’Xmas,”
By Frank Dadd, R.l. An Old English
Skating Scene.
“ Dessert/*
By E. Ladell. A beautiful Study of
Fruit.
“A Quiet Pipe/'
By the late Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale jl gents for JJustralasia, GORDON & GOTCH.
MICH ELEN’S SWEEPING
VICTORIES.
VICTORIAN MOTOR CYCLE CLUB’S CHAMPION-
SHIP MEETING.
At this important fixture, held at the Friendly
Societies’ Ground, Melbourne, on the King's
Birthday holiday, Four of the Five Contests
were won on MICHELIN Tyres, viz. :
THE BLUE RIBBON CHAMPIONSHIP,
WON ON MICHELIN TYRES.
THE 1-MILE HANDICAP,
WON ON MICHELIN TYRES.
THE 3-MILE HANDICAP,
WON ON MICHELIN TYRES.
THE 5-MILE CHAMPIONSHIP,
WON ON MICHELIN TYRES.
Sole Australian Agents—
BARNET GLASS & GO.
ONLY Melbourne Address—
—226 FLINDERS LANE.—
85 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 10 M’Henry Street,.
Adelaide. Agents at Hobart, Perth, & Brisbane.
WEGCE&
fWIorAMMM*)}
BRIGHTEN THE HOME LIFE';
FUN FOR THE EVENINGS
NUTS TO CRACK
and DRAWING-ROOM MAGIC
A Collection of Coin and Card Tricks,
Barlor Games, Practical; the
World’s Best Riddles, Tongue. Twisters
and Home Entertainments, with numerous
Illustrations. too pages. Price, 1/3
posted to any address. The U.N lON
Co.. 3QO Elizabeth Street, Melbourne t
Publications.
Translated French Novels (Some Illustrated).
Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue Free on receipt of 2}d. (letter postage),
A. DE SAULE, 20 Rue de la Michodlere> 0 Paris-
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
60/-
60/-
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted—the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
■writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
■complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
tmoney in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
SPORT AND SPOOF.
Nulla: I met the “sweep” promoter at
Coogee t’other day, and the nonchalant way he hawked
around a book of tickets tempted me to inquire what he
thought of his prospects of getting into gaol. My fears
amused him. “They can’t do nothing,” he said posi-
tively. The Ack says a fine ;in default, levy’n’distress.
Well, I’ve got no home, no furniture, no nothin’, so what
can they do?” Then I also wondered what the sweep-
winners could do, and didn’t invest.
* * * *
To get a fair idea of one’s chance of not draw-
ing a prize in a Tatt. sweep the hopeful speculator should
apply for, say, the first 10 and last 10 tickets in any
100,000. Has No. 1. or No. 99999 ever appeared on a
result sheet? In this year’s 10-shillings sweep on Mel-
bourne Cup (which was duly filled) No. 172 drew a non-
starting horse, and Nos. 239 and 234 drew a £lO and a £5
prize respectively. These were the lowest on the list
The highest number to get anything was 99780 (a non-
starter). 32069 was Apologue’s number, Mooltan was
72147, and luck hovered in its vicinity, for 72102, 72180
72131, 72185 and 72194 drew small cash prizes. ’
* * * *
‘“lf you win, I’ll break iviry bone in your
miserable little carcase,’ ses Murphy to me, an’ they had
a crimson steward at every furlong. ‘ Why don’t you fill
the mare with water, blast yer?’ I ses. Murphy ses
nothin’—he on’y glared. S’help me, the mare bolted'from
the tapes, an’ I had to flog me boot with the mop to kid
I was ridin’ like hell w’en I took a pull. An’ it was over
sticks. Strike me dead if I didn’t see meself a mangled stiff
in thebloomin”orspital. Mullany’spraddropped atthefirst
fence, and Naylor’s brute carried away the rail alongside.
That left me an’ O’Brien’s mare an’ Tom Rogers’ old"
camel. They wedged me in two jumps from ’ome, an
I had to let her go to lose the ambulance. Gord knows
what Murphy backed. Put me in the morgue if both the
cows didn’t refuse, an’ Murphy’s mare had another mile
in her. I spots Murphy’s 'red whiskers wavin’ in the
gentle breeze near the corner as I comes at the last fence,
an’ I ses to meself, ‘ Here goes ! ’ When she riz, I slips
me trilbies out of the irons and rolls kickin’ on to the
track. It was a soft drop, an’ I plays rabbit till they
brings a flask along. None of ’em finished. Murphy
booted me, the hog.”
* * * *
“ Snell ” : What struck me more than anything
else during two days spent at Flemington this season
was the large number of maimed men discoverable in
the saddling paddock and loitering on the fringe of the
crowd under the Elms. I drew the attention of a more
experienced friend to the curious circumstance. “ In-
jured jockeys ! ” he answered, Taking
the trouble to make inquiries in a few instances, I
learned enough to satisfy me that the man of experience
had diagnosed correctly. These small, wizened men
with the wry limbs, bulging breasts, twisted backs, and
distorted features are the martyrs to the game. Bred in
an atmosphere of horse, they are never happy out of the
smell of the stables, and they gather at the great events,
pitiful reminders of what Australia pays for its favorite
game. But, while the mortuary cart trots in attendance
on the hurdlers, and rarely fails to return with either
killed or wounded, the placid public still believes that
pugilism is the only sport deserving of the firm condemna-
tion of right-thinking people.
CAN A CYCLIST BE A CHRISTIAN
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cyclist Brook has got religion,
He’s a much-converted youth,
Who’s been punctured in the conscience
By the arrows of the “ trewth.”
He has cut the track for ever,
So the daily papers say,
And his jigger’s pointed skyward
To the shining milky way.
But he slangs his ancient cobbers
In a manner that’s sublime,
And he,more than hints that Satan
Was a cyclist in his time.
Quite an intimate acquaintance
With the subject he betrays,
While the blooming gaff he’s blowing
On the wily wheelman’s ways—
With a realistic shudder
At the most immoral code
Of the blokes he used to chum with
On the track and on the road.
All his pals gape wide with wonder
As he gives away the show ;
For he makes it plain that cyclists
To a warmish place must go.
And his pathway up to Heaven,
We are quite prepared to say,
Will be thickly strewn with tin-tacks
If the wheelmen get their way.
He was riding, so he tells us,
Down the primrose path to Hell,
With his jigger geared to ninety,
And no lamp, or brake, or bell.
He was practically “ coasting ”
Down a mountain, he explained,
With a certainty of roasting
When the bottom wa,s attained.
He was ridin’ loose and careless
Down this most attractive track
With his bearin’s runnin’ easy
And his chain a trifle slack.
And the grade was one in forty,
And he mentions with regret,
That quite cheerful-like and rorty
Was the company he met.
Ne’er a sign-board gave him notice
There was danger on the hill,
And no warning voice apprised him
He was taking risks, until
An evangelistic person
He encountered on a ship
Ups and gives his nibs the “ office,”
Or the “ griffin,” or the “ tip.”
Then his hair stood up in horror,
Like an angry cocky’s crest,
And he started to back-pedal
Like a cyclist who’s possessed.
And he never ceased his prowess
With the pedals to display,
Till his jigger was arrested
And turned round the other way.
Then he straightway dropped his handles
Half a foot, and bene his back
Till his Grecian nose was scratchin’
Up the gravel on the track.
And hepedalledin a manner
Quite unknown to the “ purfesh ”
As he sprinted from the temptings
Of the Devil and the flesh.
Now he says he’s full of riding
On the pleasant primrose way ;
That he’ll chance the burrs and tin-tacks
On the straight and narrow way,
And he warns all sinful sprinters
They should take up other roles,
Or the Devil with his pitch-fork
Will be puncturing their souls.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.


SULPHUR
Poor
Weak and
Weary Mothers
Raise
Puny, Pindling
Children.
Sulphur Bitters
Will make them
Strong, hearty
And healthy.
GBD
■w
”!ARK r.HABAMTtt&
m
PIPES
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
Are you
bald ? Is
your scalp
tight?
There’s the
reason.
When your scalp tightens, your
hair falls out because your scalp
is unable to nourish it.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
acts the same as nature. It
gently nourishes, and stimulates
the scalp tissues and gives them
strength to grow strong, thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry’s.
Use Reuter’s Soap (or the Shampoo
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine”
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; Janies Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A. F S S
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT^
In nse since 1596.
teal
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as,“run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mos=* welcome relief
in a very short time.
<# v <s“
cF
and OINTMENT
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says,
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
t
“For about three years i have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
! took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘ Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN,Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For safe by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. IF your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS
“I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.
Melbourne Argus gets this from one of its
country correspondents :—
The Neerim South Progress Association has been en-
deavoring to have 700 acres of land, adjoining the town-
ship, acquired by the Closer Settlement Board, and sub-
divided into small blocks. The price demanded by the
owner, Dr. Peacock, is, however, so high that it is pro-
bable the proposal will be abandoned'. It is more than
double the shire council valuation.
Yet no doubt the Argus will still stick to its old
yarn that land taxes and other measures for bursting
up big estates are quite unnecessary, owners being
prepared to do the bursting-up themselves with-
out any hastening cracker being tied to their coat-
tails.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN AND STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbouj"tb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Cojnpanies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. ~ .. 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 C
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial |||utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)euf Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAUTG nDACTQ
unrtl'l I O Ullftr I O
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
&
Free
Accident insurance
Poticies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
moot depietej).’in |.Co.,litd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEREAGH Sr., 74:, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
_______ Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Go.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Director: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOR ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FAOT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
snipping.
iixr. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSGHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
MANILA 11th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LI J\l IT i<; I). ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
fDAMASCUS .. IH. A. Schleman .. 1 Noon, Dec. 6
*MILTIADES . iA. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, Jan. 4
MORAVIAN .. I A. Simpson .. I Noon. Jan. 31
* Twin Screw. t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw Steamers.
*CUFIC, 8250 tons, to sail about 23rd
November.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 30th
November.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 25th
December.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
* Cargo only.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N« QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
in
*
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B*C*,
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States*
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA*
£? Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
THE LAW OF
FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
rpHE Book that tells how to succeed and make money
-t- by following the Law. Everybody needs it, whether
rich or poor. Big firms buy in quantities. Agents
wanted. 200 per cent, profit. Make £5 a week easy.
Send Is. for Sample and Agency.
The Fiduciary Press, 1532 Tacoma Building:, Chicago.
.. -
liiflSP
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd., 374 George St.. Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHiC Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
m
G
EORGC
St. Hilda.,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Business Announcements.
GET RICH QUICK.
RODS
Edw. NORTON*.
—For Locating MINESj
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write far Booklet, 2 Stamps.
61 Hooter Street, SYDNEY.
MOTOR CARS !
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables: “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEW ARNE. 10 Halsey Street, Catlcgan Square,
London, S.W. .
Australian reference —F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It s the finest shilling s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral!an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY, Y
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping' at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
•S.S. Granfcala, Saturday,
December 7, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, Nov. 23
S.S. Yongala, Nov. 30.
Rest and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUli-L & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
ARITIMES.
jyjESSA GERIES
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
F. — H. —S.
F ederal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“ESSEX”
11,000 Tons. T. Priske, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 25th December
„ ~ ~ Melbourne ~ 30th December
„ ~ ~ Adelaide „ 4th January
FOR
London & Liverpool
(Calling at DURBAN only to land passengers.)
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES — Saloon.
DURBAN .. £22
CAPETOWN .. £24 15s.
LONDON &
LIVERPOOL .. £49 10s.
Third Class.
£lO £ll £l2
£lO 10s. £lllls. £l2 12s.
£l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
Foe
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 23.
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 30.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
DAY, December 7.
COOLGARDIE, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, November 30.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 23.
KONOOWARRA, 5 mm., TUES-
DAY, November 26.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
November 30.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
'“Dalli
For Household Use. —To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
be used anywhere. Non-Inflammable fuel
without noxious lumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dallinette
(A Smaller “Dalli.”)
For light work and travelling only.
For general household work use the “ Dalli.’
Having a larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked T>y: _
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.


m
Cid
BRONCHITIS
= CURE =
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
fr ° m any f° rm ° f BRONCHITIS > COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where ‘ Coughs ” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS.
A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN STOREKEEPER TESTIFIES TO THE EFFICACY OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS
CURE.
A SUFFERER 70 YEARS OLD CURED BY IT.
WELL AND HEARTY NOW.
Mr. W. O. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l am a storekeeper, living in this township for the last 20 years. One of my
oldest customers has been subject to Bronchitis for a number of years, and has been in the hospital with it
several times. Hearing* of your valuable medicine, he tried it, and found that it gave him great relief. One
bottle was sufficient to put him right. This gentleman is over 70 years of age, an old bushman, who has been
in these parts for the last 30 years, and is well known. He makes my house his home when here, and got the
medicine from me. He is at my place now, and he says that this winter is the freest he has had from Bronchitis
for a number of years, and he wishes to return you thanks for your valuable Bronchitis Cure. He is well and
hearty now. You are quite at liberty to publish this or any part of it you like, as it may be of great benefit
to other people suffering from Bronchitis.—Yours truly, .
M. COGLIN, Storekeeper, Yunta, South Australia.
BRONCHITIS.
A FOURTEEN MONTHS' SUFFERER IN QUEENSLAND.
COUGH SO DISTRESSINGLY BAD, COULD NOT GET ANY REST.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l write to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I
suffered for 14 months with a terrible cough. It was so distressingly bad at night that I could not get any sleep.
I consulted doctors to no purpose. I saw your medicine advertised, and sent for a bottle, which has taken the
cough clean away, and I feel a different man. You may depend on my making your wonderful medicine known.
I have sent for another bottle to keep by me in case the cough may return at any time. lam writing this, as lam
sure there are a great many people out this way that, if they knew the wonderful effect of this medicine, would
send and procure it at any price.—Yours faithfully,
J. P. BOYD, Contractor, Torrens Creek, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A COMMERCIAL TRAVELLER SUFFERING INTENSELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
HAS SINCE CAMPED OUT AND TRAVELLED MUCH WITHOUT CONTRACTING A COLD.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—ln 1898 (I was for four years previously in Queensland travelling representative
for a mercantile house), having contracted a heavy cold, I placed myself under a medical man, and used all kinds
of chemists’ prescriptions without avail. I was then staying at Hayes’ Terminus Hotel, Brisbane. The manager
did all possible for me, for which I shall always feel grateful. Mr. Duncan Currie, at that time acting manager for
the New York Life Insurance Co., came to see me daily, and he advised me to try your Bronchitis Cure. I was about
done for, could not eat, or scarcely swallow ; in fact, used to nearly suffocate a dozen times a day, suffering intense! v
Guess of my thankfulness when Mr. Currie brought me a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. A few doses actually cured
me. I took another bottle away from the city with me, and gave part of it to a young girl at Southport audit
also saved her life. The balance I gave to Mr. T. McMillan, Tweed River—three persons cured by your valuable
medicine. Although I have camped out and travelled ahout 10,000 miles since my illness, I have not contracted a
cold since.—l am, Sir, your best well-wisher,
THOS. ROSS, Lebasa, via Suva, Fiji.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A QUEENSLAND RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT MADE A NEW MAN OF HIM.
NO SHORTNESS OF BREATH SINCE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had Bronchitis several times since 1898 in Victoria, Western Australia, and
here, and had paid many pounds away in medicine ; but when I arrived in Cairns in 1900, from Western Australia,
I was induced to try your Bronchitis Cure. I took five bottles, and it made a new man of me. I could afterwards
run a mile or climb up and down a vertical shaft without any feeling of shortness of breath. No medicine for
Bronchitis that I have ever taken has afforded me such relief as your Bronchitis Cure.—Yours faithfully,
RICHARD COLLINS, Mine Manager, Irvinebank, via Cairns, North Queensland.
BRONCHITIS.
TWO PERSONS IN NEW ZEALAND CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ONE OF THEM HAD BEEN SUFFERING FOR TWELVE MONTHS.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I had a very bad cough, so I bought one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and used about
one-half of it, which cured my cough in two or three days. My daughter, who had been troubled with a bad cough
for the past twelve months, then used the remaining half of the medicine, and it cured her also. I think your
Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful remedy.
I have lived on my farm at Bombay for about 36 years. You are at liberty to use this letter in any way you
please. Yours respectfully, CHAS. WOOTTON, Bombay, Auckland, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER FOR YEARS.
IMMEDIATE RELIEF AND COMPLETE CURE BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I feel in duty bound to express my gratitude, first to you for your marvellous
Bronchitis and Asthma Cure ; next to Mr. Cheshire, Chemist, North Brighton, for having so valuable a cure in
stock. My wife, being a sufferer for years, I purchased one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. It gave immediate
relief, and continuing it as directed, it effected a complete cure. My wife and I recommended it to all our acquaint*
ances who suffer with the same. You can use this letter for publication if you wish.—Yours sincerely,
F. A. CUTTEN, Elsternwick, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE. EXPRESSES APPRECIATION.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Accept my testimony to the success of your Bronchitis Cure. I was very ill last
February in Melbourne, and was recommended by a friend to try your Bronchitis Cure. After three doses I felt
immense relief, and the cough vanished before the first bottle was finished. Before leaving Melbourne I obtained
three bottles of it, as I would not like to be without so wonderful a medicine.—Yours faithfully,
N. KILMARTIN, Darlinghurst, Sydney.
SEVERE COUGH-A 5 TEARS CASE.
RELIEVED AT ONCE AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Dear Sir,—l suffered from a severe cold on the chest, with cough, for five years, and during that time got treat-
ment from different sources, but derived no benefit until I used your Bronchitis Cure, which gave me relief at once,
and completely cured me. lam delighted with it. It is a really wonderful medicine ; does good at once, and can’t
be licked.—Yours sincerely, W. TREMELLEN, Modewarre, Victoria.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
PREVIOUS TREATMENT FAILED.
CURED BY THREE BOTTLES.
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville, Queensland, writes “ After suffering from asthma for seven
teen years, and having been under a great many different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try Hearne’s
Medicine for Asthma. After taking three bottles of this medicine, I quite got rid of the asthma, and since then,
which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it. The medicine quite
cured me, and I have much pleasure in recommending it.”
Writing two years later he states : —“ lam keeping very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION.
HUNDREDS CURED IN THEIR OWN CIRCLE.
The Scientific Australian Office,
160 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Dear Mr. Hearne.—The silent workers are frequently the most effective, and if there is anybody in Victoria who,
during the last few years, has been repeatedly working for and singing the praises of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, it is
our Mr. Phillips.
This gentleman, some three years ago, was recommended to try your Bronchitis Cure by Mr. Barham,
accountant, Collins Street, and the effect that it had was so marked that he has ever since been continually recom-
mending it to others.
We are glad to add this our testimony to the value of Hearne’s most valuable Bronchitis Cure, which has eased
the sufferings of hundreds and hundreds of people even in our own circle of acquaintances.
Believe us always to be, yours most faithfully,
PHILLIPS, ORMONDE & CO.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to b«
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. S, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
G
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To start the stomach after prostration, great exertion
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food!
iQenger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &e., everywhere.
“Rotorua” : Re the hostility of banks
towards the birth-rate, as shown by the fact that
they refuse to allow any employee to marry till he
attains a certain salary, and then don’t let him
get that salary till he is so old that he wants a
bath-chair rather than a wife—I have great
doubts about the legality of the rule. British
law, at all events, approves of the birthrate, and
disapproves of any restriction upon it. Some
thirty years ago a cantankerous Englishman left
a will which provided that if his daughter married
a Scot she should be disinherited. The Court
ruled the disinheriting clause null and void. The
girl, it held, might be mashed on a Scotchman,
and not being allowed to marry him might
remain in celibacy. Thereby the large family
which she might have had if she had married
would remain unborn, and the sovereign’s possible
supply of soldiers would be diminished; con-
sequently the clause was held to be contrary to
the monarch’s safety, dignity and prerogative.
It seems long-winded and bathetic, but so long as
the best results are arrived at it doesn’t matter so
very much what polysyllables the Court uses on the
road.
“ Itan ” : I am interested in Sunday-school
picnic evolution. It is astonishing how often the
male visitor strikes Eve there, even if he misses
the Serpent. How the female adults roll up !
Went to one the other day in a Sydney suburb, in
search of an inspiration from a gathering of
Juvenile Australia. Instead, I mostly struck
Full-grown Australia, and Old ditto carrying
gamps and wearing spectacles. Although the
money which was paid for the eatables was sub-
scribed specially for the scholars’ regalement,
they did not have a very good eating time on the
stale buns and staler sandwiches. But the
teachers and the older dames dined sumptuously
on the best the foodshops could supply. The
same misappropriation applied to the sports
prizes ; for while the kiddies ran races for the
cheapest German toy-trash, the girl teachers
scooted with pretty little shrieks over a brief
50yds. for some very decent articles. When the
girl-folk were not supping with the disciples in
the marquee, they were mostly swarming over and
racing around the only parson and curate present.
The famine in men gave that lucky pair a great
time.


A £
Write for Price List
and Catalogues
to tHe Sole Agents*
LIPP PIANOS.
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability.
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free,
MELBOURNEt
ALLAN & CO. PROP.. Ltd
276-8 Collins Street.
SYDNEY t
W.H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 George Street.
We are Ready for Christmas.
ARE YOU ?
The experience of previous years endorses the advisability
of early preparation and early buying:. We are splendidly
prepared—our Christmas Collection of Gifts for young: and
old —rich and not so rich —was never more complete.
Come in and have a g:ood look round.
Orders should he sent in a few days in advance, on account
of the extra pressure of orders at this season of the year.
OUR CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE.
We have just published our usual Christmas Catalogue,
this year in an enlarged form, and we will gladly
post a copy to anyone who cares to send along a
request for one.
3 Opals and 4 Dia-
monds, in 18ct.
Bing, £8 10s.
7 Diamond Bing,
18ct. Gold, £7 10s.
With 4 Bubies or 4
Sapphires and 3
Diamonds, £4 15s.
9et. Gold and Beal
Coral Earring's, 7/6,
10/6, 12/6.
With Turquoise, 15/6,
17/6, 21/-
Finest Opal and Dia-
mond, 18ct. Gold
Ring, £l7 10s.
Fine Diamond and
18et. Gold Cluster
Ring, Yellow Sap-
phire Centre, £l3los.
15ct. and Amethyst Drop
Earrings, Latest Fashion,
£2 10s.
With Peridot at lower
end, £2 10s.
With Aquamarine, £2 10s.
With all Zircons, £2 10s.
Exquisite Australian
Sapphire Ring, 2 Yel-
low, £6 10s. and £7
10s.; 1 Green, 1 Yellow,
£4los. and £3 10s.
Real Greenstone Tiki,
with Pin and Gold
Chain, 5/6 and 6/6.
Gold and Parisian
Pearl Earring’s, 3
White and 1 Black
Pearls, £1 Is.
Double Snake Ring:,
Heavy 18ct. Gold, 2
Diamonds, £8 10s.
1 Diamond and 1 Sap-
phire or Ruby, £6los.
18ct. Gold and Single
Diamond Ring, £3.
With Ruby or Sap-
A Lovely Little lOct. Solid Gold
Elgin Lever Watch .
This is a splendid little Watch, with richly-engraved
lOct. Solid Gold Hunting Cases. The works are by
the celebrated Elgin Company, with Compensation
Balance and Keyless Winding.
Price, £5 lOs.
It 18 a Watch that will be a delight to any Woman.
A Gentleman’s Gold-Filled Keyless
Hunting Waltham Watch
(10 Years’ Case Guarantee).
It looks as well as a Watch costing three or four
times the money, and will be a source of satisfaction
to the wearer. It has Jewelled Waltham Lever
Movement, Brequet Spring and Compensation
Balance.
Price, £3.
A Splendid Watch to Give a
Girl at Christmas .
This is a 14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Cased Watch, suitable
for young- ladies. It has a reliable jewelled movement—
exquisitely engraved solid 14ct. Gold Cases—strong key-
less works, and altogether is a sound and serviceable
Watch. It is possible to sell a Gold Watch at a lower
price, but as the timekeeping and construction is not
such as would give lasting satisfaction to our customers,
we do not stock them.
Price, with 14ct. Gold Engraved Hunting Cases, £4l Os.
14ct. Half-Hunting, £5.
The New Thin Model Keyless
Lever Watch.
I
/
w
Side View.
A Keyless Black Steel-Cased Non-Magnetic Lever
Watch. One of the most dependable sold anywhere.
Is a tirst-olass timekeeper, with dust and damp-proof
cases and jewelled works. Will be found thoroughly
dependable in wear, and of particularly smart
appearance.
Price, £1 Is.


rt
0
Wsutin
1
• m -fl
P
(M
S
if a ,
; *:•:!
I II
/• ■
a ■ pn
;i
*l3 1
✓
I.
k' \ '/
. am
ah»
The Scalp Needs the Protection of
Zam-Buk Soap to Safeguard it
against Impurities & Disease.
* 1 ♦—
Neglect of thorough and frequent cleansing of the scalp very often leads to disagreeable and
painful sores and inflammation, if not to that more serious trouble, ringworm. No mother
should neglect this very important duty, not alone for the avoidance of disease, but as a
preventative of the impurities which usually settle in the heads of young children, who
are more prone to scalp troubles, due to their habits of play and their mingling together,
whence the trouble is very quickly communicated from one to another. Again, scurf and
scale, in .addition to being distasteful in the scalp, become a veritable breeding-ground for
myriads of disease germs and septic impurities, and, in addition, blocks the tiny pores
from fulfilling their duties as they should. Mothers often wonder why their children’s hair is
so thin and dry in appearance. The cause is usually to be found in the accumulation of
scurf and other impurities clogging the passages which supply the natural oil necessary
for aiding its growth and maintaining its softness and lustre.
For the washing of the scalp the use of common soaps should be avoided. . They do
not remove the trouble, but very often add to it, owing to the injurious substances they
contain. There is no better preparation for cleansing and purifying the scalp and skin
than Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap. Its medicines remove the impurities from the scalp, cleanse
the pores, thus allowing free action of the natural oil, and, being a powerful germicide and
antiseptic, protects it from disease. When thoroughly rubbed into the head in the form
of a shampoo, Zam-Buk Soap proves a refreshing and beneficial tonic for that soreness of
the scalp and the heavy, aching, tired brain.
No lady who values the appearance of the hair and the purity of the scalp, and no
mother who realises the importance of safeguarding her children from skin and scab
troubles, should neglect the healthful aid of Zam-Buk Soap.
Mrs. Eliza Bowen, Lucan Street, Bendigo, Victoria, writes:—
“ 1 find Zam-Buk Soap the best soap I have ever used for toilet purposes. It
makes the skin beautifully soft and velvety to the touch. I also use it for my
little son, on whom it has a very soothing effect, and it removed an obstinate
scurf from his head, which gave me a good deal of trouble to get rid of.”
Zam-Buk Soap is sold by Chemists and Stores, or may be obtained direct from
THE ZAM-BUK MFG. CO., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Perfect
Business, Robbery, etc.
.About the last public action of Charles Tucker,
. e Aus. Customs expert, before he retired to lead the
simple life, was to move for a Commission to inquire into
the methods of produce merchants. That was nearly 18
months agfo, and the Commissioners, who sit in camera,
are still finding- out why the turkey sheds so much tissue
m transit to the merchant’s sale-rooms. No report of any
nature has yet been issued ; but probably the Commission
is waiting- until Tucker is available to give expert evi-
dence on business methods.
The salt works at Mackay (Q.). which were in a
weakly state owing to want of capital, have been pur-
chased by Frank Fraser, of Ingham, who proposes to
manufacture 20,000 tons of salt a year, and one merchant
has offered to take the lot off his hands. The business
has this considerable pull over many North Queensland
mining ventures—it isn’t likely to run out of raw material.
* * * *
The Northern Territory is the Paradise of the
robber whose lib. is 140 z., and whose gallon only runs
to 3J quarts. The Weights and Measures Act applies to
the N.T. just as it does to the rest of S. Aus., but through
all these years S. Aus. hasn’t worried about supplying'
the N.T. with standards, so the law of good weight and
full measure is a dead letter. Or rather, it is a letter that
hasn’t yet been horn.
* * * *
“Ken R.” : A tale of Australian ingenuity in
the food line comes from Ramornie, the meat establish-
ment in the Clarence River district, where the problem
of corned beef plus beef extract has been solved by an
Australian extract maker. The difference between corned
beef and boiled beef, from the manufacturer’s point of
view, lies in the fact that the boiled beef process is rapid,
and returns beef-extract as a valuable by-product,
whereas corned beef takes considerable time, more plant,
and returns no extract. Corned beef, however, has a
readier, sale ; so that any process that would cheapen the
production in point of time, or by, saving the beef ex-
tract, would be of considerable value. O’Keefe’s method,
as practised at Ramornie, gives a perfect corned beef,
pork or mutton in ten (10) minutes, and the ox-tongues
treated with this pickle are said to be ahead of any done
by the brine process at these works. The old way of mak-
ing corned meat was a matter of days ; and the value of the
extract lost was from 265. to 28s. per ox. This made the
corned article a thing to be avoided by the meat artisan
as long as boiled was in demand. The “0.K.” pickle
should make a big difference to the small butchers. A
piece of (fresh) meat, selected by a customer, can be cut
off the carcase, dipped in the pickle for ten minutes, and
will then, when boiled, be the real corned substance.
Reports from the London office of the Aus. Meat Co.
declare the shipments of “0.K.” beef to be the best
sample of corned stuff produced for the season. As an
instance of the rapidity of the action of this pickle, 45
bullocks were converted into corned beef in nine hours.
This was just ordinary business —not a struggle to put up
a useless record.
* * * *
“Hypo”: My work takes me amidst frozen
mutton, butter, and rabbit, and the way they are branded
hurts me. I want to see “Australia” in big letters on
the cases and boxes. At present the cold thing is
marked—
WILLOW VALE,
Victoria,
Australia.
I want to see that order reversed. For butter boxes, let’s
put on the map of Australia, bold. The factory might
have its locality indicated on the map by a square with
the name attached. That should satisfy the usual
hump of local self-importance. But let “Australia”
be writ large every time. Then the world would soon
know the name as it knows the magic letters “ U.S.A.”
The world has no time for provincialisms. If it waited to
consider them motor cars would run over it.
* * * *
“K.”: “ Silvertail ” (8., 10/10/’O7) asks—
“ Can anyone tell me why some tobacco is put up in
the form of 5£ plugs to the pound ? ” I can. It is put
up in this way, so that the storekeeper may make a
legitimate profit in this line, and the blackleg store-
keeper may be euchred.
F’rinstance, the price of light Yankee was 4s. 6d.
wholesale before-the. tariff. (’Tis now 6d. per lb. more.) .
The blackleg storekeeper so greatly cut the price in the
past that light Yankee was generally sold at 4s. 9d. per
lb. Say, the railway freight to this town amounted to
(roughly) one penny per lb. That made the nett landed
cost 4s. 7d. They sold at 4s. 9d.—2d. profit on 4s. 7d.,
which is a shade over 3J per cent. ! It takes a bigger per-
centage than that to run an ordinary country business.
To stop that ruinous game, it was devised that each
plug be made slightly smaller, so that it would take 5|
cakes to weigh one pound.
Now to work it out. Those 51 cakes cost 4s. 7d. landed,
10-llths of the pound were sold for 4s. 9d. (not necessarily
as lib. nett weight). Ten-elevenths of 4s. 7d. amounts to
4s. 2d., and the odd 1-llth amounts to sd. He makes7d.
on 4s. 2d., as he gets 4s. 9d. for his outlay of 4s. 2d.
That is exactty 14 per cent. At the same rate, he gets
5 7-10ths for his odd cake ; if allowed to accumulate until
he sells 10 odd cakes as an additional pound (of course
the charge for a single half-cake would be 6d.). He
therefore actually gets 5/2 7-10ths for his original pur-
chase, which cost 4s. 7d. That is 14 per cent, profit.
Now the working exes, of a country store run from 5 to 8
per cent. So, say, 6£ per cent, is an average. There-
fore only 71 per cent, is cleared ultimately in this line—a
fair thing when it is considered that the’country store-
keeper is forced to “ book ” at this price.
Melbourne Board of Health recently let light in
on the alleged egg-powder, and the guileless consumer
begins to get a glimmer of what struck him. 'Of several
analysed, one comparatively harmless sample panned out
wheaten-starch and coloring matter exclusively, while a
second responded with maize-starch, tartaric acid, and
aniline dye! The Health Board sa’vs a standard of
purity for egg.powder is urgently wanted, and suggests
the necessity for a suspicion, at least, of hen-fruit in the
allegedly powdered egg.
* * * *
A 25-ton lugger, commanded by two Japs and
run by 11 aborigines, lately, in three weeks and three
days, scooped up nearly two tons of b&che-de-mer from a
spot on the Barrier Reef, the value of the catch beino-
about £350. Once a delicacy for the Chinese palate only,
now sea-slug- is rapidly becoming an accepted tit-bit for
the white epicure, and b&che-de-mer is like to dispute
with the turtle the privilege of lubricating aldermen.
* * « *
“Quidam”: Despite the depression of Kal-
goorlie (and it is awful), rents hold their heads up proudly:
A 6 x 8 mansion of galvanised iron and bagging brings in Vs.
a week just about the price for which one can get a decent
four-roomed cottage, with kitchen, garden, water laid on,
etc., in many nice little towns in Victoria. Considering the
fact that 7s. in Kalgoorlie is about as bard to get as it is
in Vic., this matter appears to reflect something on
somebody.
* * * *
The Melbourne Licenses Reduction Board is
getting a few ragged scraps of interesting information
mixed with cargoes of irrelevant matter. Most of the
“ pubs ” that let for £3 a week or so would, it is alleged,
bring in only 255. or 30s. as ordinary shops or private
houses. One of the beauties of owning a hotel, somebody
else pointed out, is that it is never vacant like a shop is.
Apropos the same subject a witness explained how the
City Council has been “ had.” The rent of a house would
be £3 or £4 a week for a five-years lease, with a £2OO or
£3OO bonus every time the lease was renewed ; vet when
the Council valuer was asked how he figured up the
valuations for rating purposes, he admitted that he
merely asked the tenant what the rent was, a d then
capitalised the value of the property on a 6 per cent, basis.
“ Had he known anything about the bonus,” he said, “he
would have added it to the rent.” The forgetfulness of
the tenants with regard to the bonus seems to have been
enthusiastically unanimous.
A big Melbourne rag and fluff firm has upset
peaceful little Adelaide’s habit of going to bed early.
For years all the big shops have closed at 1 o’clock on
Saturdays; then the big Melbourne bull put its foot in
the crockery shop, and all Adelaide’s good resolutions
went smash. A few still advertise that they close on
Saturdays at 1 p.m., but Adelaide hasn’t got enough
sense to voluntarily keep out of the fluff shops after hours,
so those that shut at 1 p.m. are anxiously counting the
cost, and the shop assistants are just as anxiously looking
towards T. Price.
* * * *
Branscome’s manner of turning over his small
capital is original and so far profitable. He tours
Sydney’s suburbs, picks out elegant villas with vacant
allotments alongside, and ascertains a few social facts
respecting the occupiers of the houses. Are the occupiers
owners ? If so, one step is gained. Are they fairly well-
to-do? Second step. Fidgety, cantankerous, or crotchety ?
If so, then it is time to work. He buys the vacant allot-
ment, messes about the piece of ground for a few days,
gives it out he is about to build, and makes himself as
offensive as he can to the adjoining neighbor. The build-
ing is to be of a kind to which he has learned the neigh-
bor has the most pronounced objection. It may be a
workshop, or part workshop, and if so will be just outside
the scope of noxious trades legislation. The neighbor
concludes after some parleying that nothing remains but
to buy out or sell out, and usually he buys out. But
some day Branscome will meet a man who will just let
him build.
• » « *
Something like a dividend. At a meeting of
the Bank of Hew South Wales held in 1825, presided over
by Mr. Samuel Terry, it was shown that “ the half-year’s
net gain was 11,199 Spanish dollars, allowing of a divi-
dend at the rate of 62 percent, per annum on the amount
of capital invested.” The discount rate at that time was
10 per cent.
“ Belter” : The glories of the rag-trade :—•
“ JfSrainy youth, anxious to get on, wishes obtain com-
mercial experience— salary no object —apply, etc.”
Now, what chance has a man against this sort of thing ?
Here am I now out of a job, and if I competed against this
brainy youth ” for the next cop, I would get left, as
salary is an object to me, and Fat would soon decide that
the other’s credentials were better. Ten years ago my
benighted parents apprenticed me to the rag-trade.
Screw to begin, 2s: fid. and sundry rises; so that in three
years I was the proud recipient of 12s. 6d. a week. Then
the boss reckoned I had reached the end of his possibili-
ties, and I rushed a job at 20s. a week in a large firm. I
was on that for two years, but seeing no chances of a rise
I took a holiday, and sta3 r ed with the old people for six
months of the winter season. Then I made another try
to “get work.” I answered advertisements innumerable,
and eventually got a leg-in with a big suburban firm as
“ head of the hat department.” “ What salary do you
want ? ” said the boss. I ventured to say 30s. "Thirty!”
said the boss in an awe-stricken voice—“ Couldn’t think
of it.” So we agreed to 255. a week; but, after several at-
tempts to reduce even that, the end came over tea-money.
This firm—headed by a “ devout Christian,” be it noted-
only allowed fid. tea-money in lieu of four or five hours’
overtime. “ Come back to-night” was the almost inces-
sant order of the boss. “Go to office for tea-money.”
Being full up of Scrag- and Co:’s, I went to the office as
requested, and saw my sprat on the counter. “ Here’s
sixpence left behind,” I chirped. “ That’s your tea-
money,” said the brilliantined clerk, from his perch.
“Tea-money!” I .yelled. “Never got less than a bob
for tea-money in any other rag-shop, and I’m not starting
now.” After a big row with the boss and half-a-dozen
under-gangers, I got the shilling—and the sack. A youth
at 15s. a week got my place as “ head of the hat depart-
ment,” with promises of a rise if he “showed an interest
in the firm.” That was two years ago, and apparently he
hasn’t shown the interest required, as he’s still toiling
for the same old 15s.
* * * *
The coupon nuisance is assuming alarming pro-
portions in Melbourne. The co-operative system which
flourishes in Sydney was blocked .years ago by law in
Yarra-side, but somehow personal coupons were left un-
touched. Now each manufacturer includes in his pack-
ages his own coupon, and a number of these entitles the
bearer to certain allegedly valuable articles. These
coupons are not interchangeable, and each manufacturer
strives 1 to offer something more valuable than his com-
petitor. The trouble usually begins thus : Under Mrs.
Fortybob’s door is thrust a leaflet an nouncing that in future
a ticket will be enclosed in each lib. packet of Winks’s
Pizen Flour, and 50 of these tickets on presentment
at the office will be exchanged for an invaluable teapot
worth ninepence. Mrs. F. jumps at the offer, and for a
while uses nothing but Winks’s flour. She uses plenty of
it, too, with her eye on that teapot. But when she has
twenty tickets another leaflet is thrown over her front
fence, referring this time to Smithson’s Flour. If she
collects 75 Smithson coupons she will own a full-dinner
service of eight pieces. She usually burns Winks’s
coupons, and commences to use Smithson’s flour,
which is not as good, and costs Id. per lb. more.
In the meantime Mr. Fortybob is smoking more tobacco
than is good for him, in the hope of collecting
enough tags to exchange for a silver-mounted pipe ;
while eight-.year-old Bill Fortybob is cramming himself
with villainous stickjaw, so that by November Ist he may
have more stickjaw labels than any other unfortunate
kiddie in Melbourne. For this proud achievement he will
receive from Stickjaw, Ltd., a football worth 2s. 6d.
Hundreds of families are suffering from acute attacks of
this coupon disease. The law should put a stop to it, in
the interests alike of manufacturers and consumers.
* * * *
“ Ejayem ” : Re sundry B. pars, dealing with
the wily pursuer of the drink of infinitesimal cost. In
my town is a newspaper proprietor and manager, with
whom the giving of hopeless cheques has developed into
a habit. Two of his comps got hold of a£2 cheque,
drawn by him, t’other day, and began a round of the
pubs. Their method was to have two drinks, and then
tender the cheque in payment. In every case the pub
keeper cut his losses by asking the revellers to get outside
and take the cheque with them. After the 14th brace of
drinks had been negotiated, the worthy fellows lost the
cheque, or swallowed it Or something, otherwise they’d
be knocking it down yet.
A WAIL OF MO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lord Rothschild states that stocks are low because
Governments all over the world are aiming heavy blows
at Capital. —News Item.
Oh, listen to the most distressful ditty
Of one who feels his nose is out of hook !
Paralysis is creeping on the city,
And no one at prospectuses will look.
It cannot be the gudgeon-folk distrust us—
That credulous investors have grown few —
No, no, the wicked Governments have “bust” us
By coveting the profits of the Jew.
New Court is in the doldrums very badly ;
It’s years, and years, and years, or so it seems,
Since speculators vied together madly
To underwrite our high financial schemes.
And High Finance is drowning in low water,
And melancholy marks us for her own.
It almost makes one wish that Pharaoh’s daughter
Had let our great progenitor alone.
Dear money is, perhaps, sufficient reason
To generate a timid atmosphere ?
I reckon not ; there never is a season
When money that is Hebrew isn’t dear.
It is not higher interest that’s sinking
The Stock Exchange so deeply in the dumps ;
But Stocks and Shares and Capital are shrinking
Beneath the Labor agitator’s thumps.
He’s murmuring, the discontented creature,
That while we pocket dollars, he gets dimes.
His cheek is just about the strangest feature
Throughout these queer and topsy-turvy times.
He’s anti-national and eontra-Nature,
An atheist, immoral, and a thief,
And yet he’s nobbling every Legislature !
Ilinc illce lacrimce, or, hence this grief!
Take off the gloves, on this our day of danger
You have to hit, to cripple, and to kill.
Or Socialistic dogs-within-the-manger
B ill whittle Private Enterprise to nil.
Then there shall be no borrowers, and lenders—
Abednego and Shadrach, and myself—
The pound-of-flesh requisitors of spenders,
Must And our occupations on the shelf.
A'.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
K6c LEADING
HOUSE FOR.
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
[CANT
B
BEAT
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6£ to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6| to 6|lb. ... 8S»
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare hook Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Od each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Oomic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3cl. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, §d. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to • the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, I*. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDouoal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d,
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pF" Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN *
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of* Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* iki. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alii Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, Vs 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2S. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
\
Oatine
Here is a face cream that will keep
your complexion soft, clear and
beautiful right through the hot
Australian summer.
It is Oatine, the great English face cream,
made from pure healing oats and free from
dangerous animal fats and mineral salts.
Oatine remwves from the pores of the skin
the dust and grime, which soap and water
cannot reach, and leaves the skin clear and
soft as satin.
It prevents freckles, sun-burn, cracking and
drying of the skin, and enables the careful
woman to preserve, the charm of a good com-
plexion, however trying the climate. It does
not grow hair.
For men's use after shaving it is an ideal
soothing cream. Price 1/9 per dainty jar,
or a larger size, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
To he obtained at all chemists
stores throughout Australia. jGet a
jar to-day.
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power ; gratifies
ambitions ; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.”*
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. ,22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
/ held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
' Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, e ns-
U/ye BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10c#
%£ British Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Beitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabrlo for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Sole Agents in N.S. W.), 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


mic
mo
CURE ALL
ILLS.
SAVE DOCTORS'
BILLS.
AN IDEAL SPRING REMEDY.
Regular Size
Boxes, lOj^d.
Double Size
Boxes, 1/6.
Write tor Free Sample.
LAXO-TONIC PILL CO . 15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
mmuq
3IX3WDVW
SNoaiiHSaG
Strengthens, Tones and
Invigorates the Muscles.
Takes out all Stiffness
and Soreness.
Gives Activity, Flexibility
and Stretching Power. .
Used by all ATHLETES
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE.
w
Vo inlander's
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
WORDS and MUSIC
FOR
2/6
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
* which for various reasons are denied the average'
music and song lover. It may be that your local music-i
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tunq, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellers
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem'
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and 1
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of
one book. In it are to be found songs old and
new to suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous—without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &c.,'
including such world-famous favorites as “Annie
Laurie,” “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”
“ Robin Adair,” “ Killarney.” “ Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “Men of Harlech,” “Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ My Bible Leads to Glory,” “ Bonnie Earl of Murray,’’
“ Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
a Nun,” “ Highland Mary,” “ Kitty of Coleraine,” “ Prayer
During Battle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless]
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured]
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,]
such as “Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”j
are also to be found within the pages of the “ Gem|
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. 10d.); if P.N.j
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchange. Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere. Address —
THE PUBLISHING CO., 460 is George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday .
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
Ss 7
«(&•
DON'T BE FAT I
EXCESS fat i> not only uncomfortable, dangerous to
the general health, and most inconvenient, but
it is positively ugly ! One hates to be
considered ugly, or to feel that one’s appearance makes
one ridiculous. Don’t bo Fat!! We can cure
you of obesity; we can reduce your weight to normal
without inconvenience drastic dieting or killing exercise.
vr “F AT CURE”
is a natural, vegetable remedy for Obesity. No case of obesity exists that it cannot
overcome. It is not unusual for our patients to lose from five pounds a week to over a
pound and a-half a day. “ Fatcure ” is pleasant to take, and the results are permanent.
Absolutely no barm can result from using "Fatcure”
This treatment is unique amongst anti-fats in that it contains absolutely no harmful nor
deleterious ingredients and though it reduces weight rapidly, its use could not harm the health of
even an infant. Its purity, efficacy and freedom from deleterious ot harmful substances is
absolutely guaranteed. Its use invariably improves the general health, a general improvement
becoming noticeable a few days after beginning to take it. “Fatcure" is put up in tablet form.
MRS. GERTRUDE HENERY, Paddington, N.S.W., writes:—“After using Fatcure for about three
months I find myself reduced in weight by over four stone. My general health is much improved, in fact,
began to improve the first week. I now enjoy my meals, enjoy my daily work, and enjoy perfect health and
a normal figure. I have no more palpitation and weak heart spells, and I feel a different woman.”
CALL, OR POST 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
If you can call we will give you Free Sample, and weigh you privately. If not, write for Free Sample.
All correspondence is confidential, and samples and treatment are plainly wrapped so that contents of
package are not disclosed. Hours : 9 a.m. to 6.30 p.m.
The WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
The Rain Upon the Roof.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE heard a goddess singing,
And her songs were all of love,
I have followed all her winging
Notes that rose to Heaven above.
I have heard the plaudits thundered
As her last note thrilling died,
And my heart stood still and wondered
At the woman deified.
I have heard an army marching
With a drum-beat pounding wide—
Tramping men and horses arching
Glossy necks in fire and pride.
Well 1 knew the war-drum’s story,
As I watched the army pass—
All its tale of war and glory.
And of blood upon the grass.
I have heard a bird at dawning,
Ere the sun had kissed the sea,
To the rose of eave and awning,
Singing greenwood minstrelsy.
And I thought of woodland questing,
And of dew that fell in showers,
And of breaking ground and breasting
Through the throat-high ferns and flowers.
I have heard the storm-song shouted
On the sands at dead of night,
When the clouds above were routed
Like an army put to flight.
And I thought of all the daring
Of a thousand ships of old —
Homeward coming, seaward faring,
Bearding rock and reef and cold.
I have heard (when Nature grew sick
And the stars of midnight set),
Sure to God, the sweetest music
That has ever sounded yet;
For I thought of cattle calling
To the rain-clouds looped aloof,
And I woke to hear the falling
Of the rain upon the roof.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Best Policy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JEREMIAIi MAUNDER crossed Collins-
street at an acute angle, and took up his
position at the corner of a narrow passage,
or alley. From this coign of vantage he glowered
balefully at the form of Samuel Sharp, who leant
against a lamp-post on the opposite side of the
way. This temporary dissolution of a long-estab-
lished partnership had been brought about after a
brief but wordy warfare, in which Mr. Sharp
had called Mr. Maunder such things as “ cock-
eyed walrus,” “mangy goat,” and “fat-headed
shrimp.” It was at this point of the dispute that
Mr. Maunder crossed the road, breathing noisily
and nasally.
The principal highways of the city were gaily
decorated with flags, floral arches, bunting, and
tinsel adornments of the crimped-paper variety,
for it was the year 1901, and distinguished visitors
from a far country were honoring Melbourne by
their presence. A steady stream of sightseers
surged through the streets, jostling regular
habitues into the kennels, and driving perspiring
men of business to exasperation by the delibera-
tion of their movements.
Rousing himself from his state of lethargy,
Mr. Maunder, forgetful for the time being of his
perfidious friend, became absorbed in contempla-
tion of the multitudes that perambulated the
pavements. He was disturbed in his philosophic
meditations by a light touch upon the arm. He
shook the obtruding hand off.
“ Git away, Sam.” He spoke with some firm-
ness. “I don’t want ter ’ave no more words
with the likes o’ you.”
“ But perhaps you want a job,” said a gentle,
hurried, feminine voice.
Jerry brought a pair of hard-boiled blue eyes
to bear on the speaker. Astonishment and in-
decision struggled on his usually inexpressive
features. True, for some years the greater part
of his diurnal existence had been ostensibly spent
in looking for a job, but now that one had stolen
upon him tip-toe and unawares, so to speak, his
shyness of the stranger was akin to that displayed
by an unbroken horse when it meets man. He
grinned coyly, and breathed even harder than was
his wont. His interlocutor was tall and slight of
figure ; she was heavily draped in black garments ;
her face was hidden by a thick veil; but she had
a soft, persuasive, albeit a trembling voice.
Jerry was masculine, and also human. He
plunged boldly.
“ Don’t mind if I do,” he said, with an embar-
rassed chuckle ; then, aghast at his own temerity :
“ Wot is it ? I carn’t walk fur, an’ I carn’t carry
no weights ’cos of my roomatics.”
The female produced a fair-sized hand-bag from
beneath her cloak. “ It’s only to take this to the
booking-office at Prince’s Bridge station,” she
said, reassuringly. “ Leave it there, and bring
the ticket to the Treasury end of Fitzroy Gardens
in half-an-hour’s time. I shall be waiting for
you.” She glanced at a diminutive watch set in
a gold wrist-bangle. “It is now 11 o’clock—
at half-past I shall expect you. The bag’s locked,”
she added, meaningly, as she thrust the article in
question into Jerry’s unwilling right hand, at the
same instant slipping two half-crowns into his will-
ing left. Then, turning sharply on her heel, she
hurried out of the alley-way and was lost to sight
amidst the throng.
Jerry gazed in bewilderment alternately at the
bag and at his retaining fee.
“ Lor’ lumme ! ” he exclaimed, “ a real proper
soft job, an’ five bob fur doin’ of it ! Why, she
must be wot S.am Sharp calls a Grease-us. Well,
she’s greased me orlright, so ’ere goes. ”
“ Wot’s wrong, Jerry?” said a familiar voice at
his elbow. “Got a job? Never mind. Don’t
look so ’eart-broke. ’Ere’s yer old pal ready to
lend you a ’and.”
Mr. Maunder cast a look of ineffable scorn on
his partner in many iniquities.
“ You be orf, Sam Sharp,” he said, with deci-
sion. “ I don’t require your ’elp —thankin’ you
kindly orl the same. I wouldn’t demean meself
to be see’d walkin’ with you in the public streets.
Five bloomin’ bob ! ” he concluded, in an out-
burst of exultation.
Sam shook his head sadly.
“You’re dreamin’, Jerry,” he said. “Six-
pence wos wot the lady said she wos goin’ ter
give you if you made ’aste, an’ quite enough too.”
Mr. Maunder disdained retort, but partially
opening a cautious and grimy hand, displayed
two undeniable half-crowns.
“Well,” said Sam, with a burst of bitterness
too deep for eloquence —“well, I’m jiggered!
I’d ha’ done it meself fur a tanner. ”
During his necessarily slow progress along the
crowded street, Jerry was aware of the mute pre-
sence of his faithful ally, nor was his exasperation
softened by Sam’s manifold good counsel.
“ It’s too ’eavy fur you, Jerry,” he remarked,
with kindly solicitude. “ I kin see it’s too ’eavy
fur you be ’arf. Best let me ’elp you a bit.”
Jerry preserved a lofty silence, but tightened
his grip on the bag. His color came and went in
patches, and he urged Sam to go to perdition.
“ You’re exhaustin’ of yerself, Jerry,” con-
tinued the reproachful Sam. “I warned you as
’ow you would. Why not ’ire a railway van or
borrer a wheelbarrer ? Remember yer pore ’eart
wot the prison doctor said ’ad got a fatted regene-
ration. Any’ow let me carry one o’ them ’arf-a-
crowns for you. I carn’t go on seein’ you do orl
the work like this ’ere.”
Jerry came to a full stop.
“Are you a-goin’ ter leave me alone, Sam
Sharp, or are you not ? ” he demanded, with
ferocity. “ ’Ere am I doin’ a ’ard day’s honest
work, an’ you come cadgin’ on me. S’elp me,
it’s enough ter make a man spit ! ”
“ Fust job in twenty year,” said Sam, ab-
stractedly addressing the chimney-pots. He
paused, then turned suddenly on the indignant
Mr. Maunder. “ Wot’s that tickin’in that ’ere
portmantle o’ yers ? ” he asked, abruptly.
Jerry so far forgot his wrath as to incline his
untidy head for an instant. A slow and steady
ticking sounded distinctly from the interior of the
bag.
“’Ow should I know?” he said, with cold
dignity. “ I s’pose it kin tick ef it likes, carn’t
it ? You ain’t the on’y one what goes on tick, Sam
Sharp.” He chuckled with a senile appreciation
of his own little jest.
There was a moment’s silence, unbroken save
by the hurrying steps of foot-passengers and the
methodical, mysterious tick-ticking. Then Sam,
who had gone strangely white, spoke in strangled,
husky tones:
“Jerry, you blamed fool ! Don’t you tumble
to it ? Prince’s Bridge station ! The Dook and
Dookess’s procession this arternoon ! It’s a
’fernal machine-—a bomb; they alius goes by
clockwork. That ’ere woman wos a lady anna-
crist. Gawd ! I wouldn’t be in your boots for
summut ! So-long, I’m orf. ” He made a feint
of flight.
Jerry stood irresolute.
“ Somebody must ha’ give you a knock on the
’ead some time or other, Sam,” he said, pessi-
mistically. “ Wot would anyone in their census
want ter blow up a railway station fur ? ”
“ Didn’t a woman give you the bag ? An’ wot
does it matter to a woman wot she blows up, as
long as she blows up summut?” replied Sam,
scornfully. “If you wos a widower like me,
Jerry, you’d know orl about that. Well, I’ll be
gettin’.”
“’Ere, ’old’ard, Sam; ’old ’ard,” cried the
agitated Jerry. “ Wot am I ter do with it ? You
wouldn’t desert yer old pal —you ain’t got the un-
feelin’ ’eart ter leave me alone with this ’ere ? ”
‘ ‘ Ain’t I, though ! ” retorted Mr. Sharp. ‘ ‘ Ketch
me stoppin’ within’ a mile o’ that thing. No
fear ! ”
“Thenl’ll jest leave it ’ere,” said Jerry, despe-
rately, and he deposited the bag in the exact
centre of the footpath.
“ Pick it up, you mug ! ” said Sam, savagely.
“You’ll c’llect a crowd an’ git us both run in.
D’yer expect the beak’ll listen ter a yarn about a
woman give it you ? Not ’im ! It’s your funeral,
Jerry, old pal, an’ I’m sorry fur you.”
“ Then I’ll take it ter where she told me,” cried
the badgered Mr. Maunder.
“ I wonder at you, Jerry,” said Sam, reprov-
ingly. “ ’Ow kin you tork o’ sech a thing ? You
wouldn’t never smile agin, wot with thinkin’ of
orl them pore innercent people blown inter little
atoms. No, fetch it along to the p’leece-station
—there’ll be a reward, not ter speak of your name
bein’ in orl the newspapers as the ’ero wot risked
’is own life fur the good of ’is suff’rin’ feller
creeturs. Shouldn’t wonder if you didn’t git the
Victoria Cross. It’ll be the makin’ of you, Jerry.”
“ I don’t want no Victoria Cross,” said Mr.
Maunder, with simple self-denial. “ ’Ere, ketch
’old, Sam. It’s too ’eavy fur me. You’re wel-
come to orl you kin git.”
“ No, no, Jerry,” replied Sam, firmly. “ I
arsked you once afore if I shouldn’t ’elp you, out
o’ the kindness of me ’eart, an’ small thanks I got
fur it. Besides, you’re a old man with on’y a
few more years ter live at most, so it carn’t make
much difference ter you if it’s to-day or to-morrow
—nobody won’t miss you. But me, Lor’ bless
you, I’m on’y jest beginnin’ ter enjoy life.”
“ You shall ’ave one o’ them ’arf-a-crowns,
Sam,” urged Mr. Maunder.
Sam shook his head.
“ Both of’em, then,” cried Jerry, in the accents
of a gambler staking his last coin.
“Not if you wos to go down on yer bended
knees fur a week, an’ offer me a thousand ’arf-a-
crowns,” replied his companion, inflexibly. “Be
a man, Jerry. The longer you stops ’ere wasting
val’able time, the more likely the thing is ter go
orf sudden-like.”
The few loiterers in a certain unfrequented side-
street cast curious glances at the dilapidated and
elderly gentleman with the agonised expression of
countenance, who shuffled hastily along the
pavement, carrying a black hand-bag almost
at his arm’s length. Sam Sharp, with the
lust of greed hot in his heart, yet keenly
alive to the fact that caution is akin to the
truest courage, kept the breadth of the road
and about a hundred paces between himself and
his friend, all ready to beat a swift retreat in the
event of emergency. At length, after a great feat
of rapid pedestrianism, Mr. Maunder, for the first
(Continued on next page.J


THE DANGER
of BACKACHE.
All tired out —scarcely enough
energy to get home in the
evening—no rest when you do
get home —as tired in the
morning as at night. The
back is so weak you can
scarcely bend it —aches and
throbs even when you lie still.
The kidneys are to blame.
They are not taking the
poisons out of the blood. They
need help, and need it at once.
Do not disregard the warning
message of the back that
aches, for the ache comes from
the kidneys (which lie just
beneath the small of the
back), and distinctly tells that
uric acid poisons and waste
matter are accumulating in
your body. These are the
poisons that cause dropsy,
Bright’s disease, rheumatism,
bladder troubles, urinary dis-
orders, diabetes.
i
Doan's
Brack ach e
Kildney
Pills.
f
Backache
Kidney
Pills
Cure Backache, Weak Back, Rheuma-
tism, Diabetes, Congestion of the
Kidneys, Inflammation of the Bladder,
Gravel, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease,
and all Urinary Disorders.
SYDNEY PROOF.
BACKACHE and URINARY DISORDER CURED.
Mr. J. Livingstonfe, Ingleburn, near Liverpool, says:—“For years I suffered from
gravel. I had medical advice, and underwent three operations in two years for stone in the
bladder, but I only got relief for a couple of months after each operation, and would soon be as
bad as ever again. I got little rest, and did not know what it was to get two hours’sleep at
a time. I was so bad with backache that I would cry out with pain, and to bend was agony.
I simply could not do my work. To add to my sufferings, my secretions were very frequent
and high-colored. After the best doctors failed to cure me, I did not think that Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills would be able to cure me ; but my wife kept on urging me to try them.
At last I did get them, and after taking one box I felt a little better ; after using the third box
I knew that I was on the,road to recovery, and had great hopes of a perfect cure. I was not
disappointed, for after eight boxes I was sound and well. The gravel and backache were cured,
mv secretions were natural, and I slept like a baby. lam quite cured, and consider my cure a
miracle. I spent a lot of money and was tortured with operations, yet could not get well, and
a few boxes of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, at the paltry cost of £l, cured me.”
Eight years later, Mr. Livingstone says:—“The above is quite true—every word—and I'
can now tell you that Pm still well. My cure proves that there’s nothing as good as Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills for the kidneys.”
COLD IN THE KIDNEYS.
Mr. James Hudson, 14 Lennox-street, Newtown, Sydney, says :—“I work in the Bondi
sewer. There is a constant drip there, and when working it mostly happens that one is wet
through. Some parts are better than others, but while working in the shafts one is constantly
damp, and this affected my health. My trouble came with a bad cold in the kidneys, which
caused terrible pains in my back. I did my work, but it was most fearful torture for me to
have to do it. I was very bad the first day that I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills adver-
tised, and it struck me that by the name of the remedy they should be good for my complaint.
I procured them, and they cured me in a fairly quick time. lam never without them in the
house now.”
Mrs. Hudson confirms the above“ It is now six years since my husband gave the
above testimonial for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and he is as well to-day as he was then.
That’s the best of Doan’s Pills, they cure for good.”
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
and last time in his chequered existence, made a
voluntary incursion into the barren territories of
his hereditary foes, the police.
“ A lady Annie-kissed give it me,” he said,
breathlessly, as he planted the hand-bag gingerly
on the floor of the station-room. The Inspector
in charge, who was writing at a tall, railed-desk,
dropped his pen and surveyed his dishevelled
visitor with a look of suspicion.
“ Eh, what?” he said sharply.
Mr. Maunder breathed heavily through his nose.
It was at this juncture that Sam slipped un-
ostentatiously into the office, and, elbowing the
speechless Jerry aside, explained the situation in
a few well-chosen words. Several times the
Inspector interrupted his statement with acidu-
lated and hypercritical interpolations.
“ Well,” he said, after Sam had concluded an
eloquent peroration with a gentle hint as to the
risks he and his companion had run, coupled with
the expression of his conviction that Government
should suitably acknowledge the same in coin,
amount unspecified—“ well, our men have been
on the look-out for anything of the sort the last
month or more, but I’ve not heard of any suspi-
cious characters in this particular line being under
observation. Still, it’s always best to be on the
safe side. J ones, fetch along a bucket of water. ”
A youthful constable, who had been engaged in
inspecting Mr. Maunder, hastened to obey his
chief’s behest.
“It’s heavy enough—and locked,” said the
Inspector, as he placed the bag carefully on his desk.
He took a bunch of curious-looking keys from
a hook on the wall, and tried one after another.
At the ninth attempt the bag opened.
“I’m damned!” muttered the police officer.
Then he swung round on Sam. ‘ ‘ What cock-
and-bull story is this you’ve been faking up ? ” he
demanded, brusquely. “ See here.”
Sam and Jerry drew near and gazed in helpless
amazement; and for perhaps the first time in his
life Samuel Sharp found himself bereft of the
powers of speech.
At this psychological moment a cab rattled up
to the door, 'and a thick-set, alert man, dressed in
an ill-fitting, navy blue serge suit, hustled into the
office.
“ Mornin’, Pearce,” he said, with a nod to the
Inspector; then his eye fell upon the bag.
“ How in thunder did this come here ? ” he cried.
“ I’ve been chasing that bag half over Melbourne
the whole blessed mornin’. Well, if this' isn’t a
stroke of luck ! ”
He plunged a hairy fist into the receptacle and
drew forth with loving care a heterogeneous
collection—rings sparkling with gems, valuable
watches, bracelets set with precious stones, gold
chains, and an eight-day travelling-clock which
ticked with a solemn persistence.
“P’raps you can explain matters, Palmer?”
said the Inspector. “ I can get nothing in-
telligible out of these men,” he added, un-
gratefully, with a basilisk glance in the direction
of Sam and Jerry.
“ Elizabeth-street jewellery robbery,” said the
detective, concisely. ‘ ‘ Betty Flanagan and Dick
the Dodger both in it up to the chins. I got on
Bet’s tracks this mornin’. Lost her in Collins-
street owing to the crowd, picked her up again at
the corner of Bourke and Swanston streets, and
lost her, like a bloomin’ fool, in Little Bourke-
street. She must ha’ twigged me, I think ; she’s
as cunning as fifty monkeys. How did you come
by this ? It’s the best part of the loot.”
The Inspector expounded briefly.
“ The booking office at Prince’s Bridge ! ”
ejaculated the detective, with a little whistle.
“ Now, I wonder what her artful game was ? At
all events, this is checkmate with a vengeance.”
“That’s so,” said the Inspector as he re-locked
the bag. “ All right, Maunder and Sharp, you
can go. We know where to find you when
wanted. You’ve nothing particular up against
either of them just now, eh, Palmer ?”
The other laughed good-humoredly.
“ Why, no ; I can put my foot on ’em at any
moment,” he said.
“ It’s big enough,” said the embittered Sam,
with a disparaging glance at the detective’s full-
sized boots. “Ain’t there no reward fur two
pore, honest men, wot ’ave done their level best
ter ’elp you, an’ lost ’arf a day’s work a-doin’ of
it ? ” he inquired, tiuculently.
“You’ll get your reward all right,” replied the
Inspector, grimly. “We won’t keep you waiting
long, I can promise you that much. You can
clear out now—the pair of you’ll be called as wit-
nesses later on, I shouldn’t wonder. Good-
morning.”
The two crestfallen recoverers of lost property
passed slowly out into the street, Jerry still cling-
ing with the tenacity of a limpet to his well-earned
specie.
“ See wot comes o’doin’a good action,” re-
marked Sam, summing up the situation with con-
centrated venom. “ Not even a bloomin’ thank
you. Honesty the best policy, be blowed ! Never
no more.”
“ You’re a nice un, Sam Sharp,” said his com-
panion, bitterly. “’Fernal machine, indeed!
Why, ef we’d on’y opened the bag as I wanted to
’ave done, we might ha’ kep’ the lot —who’d ha’
bin any the wiser ? ”
“We shouldn’t,” retorted Sam, enigmatically.
“We’d ha’ bin bound ter be nabbed sooner or
later, you kin bet yer bottom dollar on that—
necessaries arter the act. Five years ’ard. You
wouldn’t never ’ave ’ad your freedom no more this
side o’ Jordan, Jerry, old pal. Orl the same, I’m
sorry we upset Betty Flanagan’s apple cart.”
Mr. Maunder preserved a dignified silence,
what time he nibbled hungrily at the rim of one of
his half-crowns. Sam’s quick eye caught the
glint of silver, and his face brightened visibly.
“Ah, well,” he said, with a self-satisfied sigh,
“it’s orl the fault o’ my ’magination wot runs
away with me. I carn’t ’elp it—it’s jist a gift, I
s’pose.”
“Take my tip an’ don’t let it run away with
you agin to the p’leece station, wot ain’t a ’ealthy
sitiwation fur neither of us,” put in Jerry, with
conviction.
“ If you on’y ’ad one quarter o’ my ’magina-
tion,” continued Sam, ignoring the interruption,
“ you’d know ’ow thirsty I was at this’ere blessed
moment, arter torkin’ to them Johns, while you
stood by mum as mutton. Come on, matey, let’s
git acrosst to the “Orns,’ an’ change them bits o’
pewter o’ yours.”
LAWRENCE B. JUPP.
The Water-Finders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
n\TO rain had fallen for a year, and all the
tanks were dry,
’ And like some dreadful cloud of doom
the ibises flew by;
The wind was like a furnace breath, the skies
were all aflame,
When thro’ the silence of the West two water-
finders came.
They’d tramped, they said, a weary tramp that
' started ere the sun
Across the dazzling wastes of sky his journey had
begun ;
And it was very plain to see
That they were on the wallabee,
And tramped from run to run.
Now, Mitchelmore, our manager, was deemed a
canny Scot,
But in his big, receptive ear they whispered quite
a lot,
Of how they made the desert bloom with many a
luscious crop—■
For subterranean rivers they had hoisted to the
top !
Of how in Northern Queensland, where the fat of
man is fried,
They had tapped the bubbling water under deserts
drear and dried;
By north and south, and east and west,
Their victories were manifest—•
And could not be denied.
They had a swag of documents to inkily declare
That water could be drawn from stone by this
unrivalled pair.
They were “The Wizards of the West,” “The
Nozzles of the North,”
For from the hidden stratas deep they dragged
the torrents forth.
The sheaves were signed by magistrates ; and one
amongst them bore
The special affidavit of a Queensland editor —
“We certify these fellows are
The best in all the land by far,”
That distant pressman swore.
“These prove our bona-fides, sir, without a
doubt”; and then
They made a bet with Mitchelmore of fifty pounds
to ten
That they would make a Paradise, and gladden
ev’ry heart
By reaching seas of water if he’d only let them
start.
(They wanted board and lodging and a gig to
drive around
What time they made incisions in the hard and
thirsty ground.)
“And, mister, we shall leave our fee
To your own generositee
When great cascades are found.”
The water-finders started out one stifling after-
noon,
While voices seemed to whisper “We shall have
the Deluge soon ! ”
A six-horse team the outfit hauled, rope, keg, and
windlass-gear,
Plus countless small accessories that won’t be
mentioned here.
And then they made a start to reach the subter-
ranean sea
That lurked beneath the surface of that scorched
localitee,
And waited for the brain and heart
Of men like them, who knew the art
Of Meteorologee.
They sank and sank, aye, ever down thro’ sand,
and grit, and clay,
Till sceptics winked and tittered in an aggrava-
ting way.
The days went gliding into weeks, and into
months they rolled,
But still the heart of Mitchelmore was sad and
un consoled.
“I’ll give you chaps another week,” he said,
“ and then you quit,
Unless you strike the water, and
I want you now to understand
Your pay depends on it.”
The given week went by, and then a comprehen-
sive swear
Expressed the bitter fury of that raging manager.
“ You’ve knocked us off,” the seekers said; “ our
job’s unfinished yet;
We’ll deem it quite a favor if you pay us up
our bet ;
For don’t you see the world is round (and thank
the Fates it’s wide).
With water all around ic, sir—that cannot be
denied !
We shan’t retract, and if you like
We’ll keep on sinking till we strike
The sea the other side ! ”
Then Mitchelmore orated in his free and forceful
way : '
“ I’ve been duped and I’ve been diddled, yet I’mi-
man enough to pay ;
But you’re frauds, and great delusions, stinking
fish and cablegrams ”
(The air was impregnated with a multitude of
damns);
“You’re plagues, and public scandals, and a most
outrageous shame—
And you’ve twenty minutes’ notice now to go the
way you came.”
They shouted as the gate they shut:
“ You quite forgot our ref’rence, but
We thank you all the same ! r
**• * *
For eighteen months no rain had come, and all
the tanks were dry,
And, like a messenger of doom, the choking dust
went by;
The wind was like a furnace-breath, the skies
were burning red,
As thro’ the grassless wastes of sand the water-
finders fled;
They trudged toward the waiting West beneath
the blistering sun,
With thoughts that came in unison, with hearts
that beat as one ;
And it was plain enough to see
How they had made their £ s. d.
On many a droughty run.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
m
Jk
«.-r
o
A Grateful Mother Writes:
“My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide.”
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get ‘‘Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla—not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
c
LORED
lid Artistic
*
CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 1 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from tl-ie list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Wateh and Chain: Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.-* lmMl n
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
F
R.
£#
E.
This will Suit him
—for a—
Christmas Present
It Is a Sovereign Case of very
handsome design intended to
hold Five Sovereigns. ...
Made in Solid Silver—price, 8/6; or gold-
filled, which will give excellent service for 20
years, price, 20/-; or in 9ct. gold, 45/-; sent
post free to any address.
In the new “A. & C.” Christmas Catalogue,
nearly 800 articles are illustrated and described,
and the bulk of these are particularly suitable
for presentation purposes.
You will find this of considerable service
when you are selecting Christmas presents, and
we will gladly send..you a copy post free on
request.
We pay the postage on anything purchased
here, and if on receipt of the parcel you are in any
way dissatisfied, you may return the article and
we will cheerfully refund the amount paid.
Special
If you produce this advertise-
ment at our Store, or send it
with 1/- you will receive a
handsome willow pattern
butter dish in an elegantly
carved wood stand.
ANGUS (a COOTE,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
“ The Store where Quality counts,”
George Street, Corner Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.Y. Markets,
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
STST 331ST 3ES'ST.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA ,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing 1 Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name
MOV
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
THE BALLET
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS. £l,OOO.
No Money Wanted.
1
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Geld Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you—the risk is ours, You max return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ingthem ridiculously eas. , for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Fii'risls’ sesfl Supjiiij Do. 52
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Jf you 3{ave
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary into j
reading an apparently interesting story which proves to be a prelude *
to an advertisement. The startling story and the thrilling testimonial
do not add to the merit of the article advertised. If you are troubled with
£crd 7)igestion, Jmpure J}lood, JCanguor,
inactive JCiver, Sick
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered Stomach imperfectly
doing its work, you need not experiment with the many medicines so
plausibly set before you; take
Beechams Pills
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by thousands of sufferers to be
unequalled for dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver, It is not
necessary to bring BEECHAM'S PILLS before your notice surreptitiously,
as they are openly recommended by those who have found that
BEECHAM’S PILLS will do all that is claimed for them —hence \
they have the Largest Sale of any patent Medicine,
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1% (5 6 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills'), j
GK
lENGT
M
&
Weak Men, Rheumatics, Nervous People,
and Those who have Lame Backs, Sciatica,
Indigestion, Constipation, and Kidney and
Bladder Troubles
May get Cured STAY Cured.
Any man or woman who will secure us can have
Our appliances and
PAY WHEN CURED
You run no risk. Failure to cure costs you nothing,
as we take all the chances. Dr. Austin’s Electric Belt
is the best Electric body appliance that has ever
been invented. It will last longer and cure quicker,
than any other, and is guaranteed not to burn or
blister, as the old style belts do.
SPECIAL NOTICE.— We receive thousands of testimonials from people who have used
our appliances. Copies of these letters will be sent upon application, or can be seen at our office.
FREE BOOK. FREE ADVICE. A beautiful Illustrated Medical Book, which
should be read by every adult. This will bo sent free, sealed in plain wrapper, all charges
prepaid. It is free and can be had for the asking.
Don’t neglect this splendid opportunity to regain your health. We will make a written
diagnosis of your case FREE. WRITE TO-DAY.
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.,
317 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
The Bulletin
Gh>
f POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. " The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson. \
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street, Sydney.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY^
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
* *
GOUT ANw
RHEUMATIC
iey Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
Y. J. Daley’s ‘‘ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his beat verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
MEN
AN o
wo hen
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
"The Diseases of Men and Women,and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for ali
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encycloptedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). J3F” Note Address s
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “ Elm ley House, " 151 Elizabeth -st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. -- HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll gst more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co . Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about lSlbs. Operated by compressed air, cbrisuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64. PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
TO
THE
DEAF
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R, VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, fir pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will he sentpost
free on mentioning this paper.
| Header, why not be able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. Ton can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about It. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
| Hypnotism, which iully explains
the mysteries and secrets
oi the Art. It contains
1 hundreds of beautiful and
mrtistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt oi 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotise. It Is a chance oi
• life-time. Address—
Prof. R.
80 Pitt Street,
, N.S.W.
Let Me Tell your Fortune
'
Bead the Answer in the Stars. Shake-
speare says :—“The stars above us govern
our conditions.” Let me tell you what the
future has in store for you. Do you wish to
know whether you will prosper or not in
your undertakings ? Win or lose in specula*
tion ? Why be sick when you may be well ?
Why be poor when you may be rich and influential ? Do you know where your star is guiding you ?
If not, it is very important that you should know, and I will give you this knowledge. Clear answers
to all questions of vital interest. About your love affairs, about family matters, about marriage,
about your lucky days, about changing your position, about what business will bring success, about
perplexities.
If you want to make your future successful, and know what it contains, all you have to do is to
write me, telling me your full name, state whether you are married or single, tell me the date of your
birth and year, and enclose !/• fox* postage, etc.
The Horoscope or life reading I will send you promptly will cover your whole affairs and, your
future will be revealed to you like an open book.
Is. Postal Noto or Stamps
will cov&r the cost.
DON’T DELAY.
Co
nsuli me
%
You little know what to-morrow may have in
store for you. If you are sick or unhappy I can
help you. If you are happy I can ward off danger
from you so you may remain happy. Delay
even death.
Your Horoscope will be sent you sealed and confidential. Let the world's greatest astrologer read
your life as the stars reveal it, and mystify you by its truths. Address—
;nri de
366 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE.
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
0 s FOR m »
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains ol
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
, POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LOWXM.
Can be obtained of all Chemists la
Australia and New Zealand'•
1 1
CURE
GRf AULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co's INDIAN CKJAB-
ETTES. Bold by all Chemists.
The
beverag'e
...
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
, / . /•' / ’ ' ’ * r ' '‘'S ' <! WW k MSb J
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, For ed
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forge*,
Etc., Etc.
WATER BAG, 14/-, 20/-
AM
Is now recognised as THE
Water Filter of Australia.
Guaranteed to stop
AH Disease Germs.
Vide Bacteriological Certificates.
IF YOU VALUE YOUR HEALTH YOU WILL BUY AW » ABBOTT.”
MADE IN GREAT VARIETY AT ALL PRICES.
The WATER BAG is particularly suitable for the country .
The ordinary Water Bag does not Filter the Water.
Write for Folder giving full description and prices. Liberal Trade Discount.
TANK.
RAPLJN
Hand ...
Ice Machine
Will freeze Water in
3 Minutes j and make
Ice in 20 Minutes .
——•—♦
PRICE £l2 lOs.
MANUFACTURED
ONLY BY
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
