

DEWAR’ S
dfgdfgdf
gfdgfdg
R. G. WATK.mS &Z> CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Tvrinin o- ant i Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE,
dfgfdgfd
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd.,
sole agents for JEFFREY SYDNEY* I - 8 w -
LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES for
Elevating & Conveying Any Class of
IVlateriag in Bulk, Bales, Boxes, &c.
SENS FOB ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE LISTS.
3BC O 3E$ A. 3Ft "X".
I
adieu’s
niii
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowicl & Son Ltd,, 117 York St., Sydney
i
-
Take it back.
I must
S
Fine Apple Brand
gfdgdfg
f
TEIE R.OYAJL.
GDIS WAN LAMP
1
BSS3S
r*
' /RO
■ L
EDIS
WAN
ft -
&
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
m a mm
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE
r
■a,
a
OnUQIPM RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
uUllOlull HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD. , SYDNEY.
Charge for Selling Wool
Rethioed to 2 per Gent.
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
dfgfdgfd
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES. V
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
IMPLE.
CONOMIC
ELIABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
- 1
m
mi
gfdgfdgfd
gfdgdfg
As supplied to the ‘ P. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
tLEL£S
a
dfgfdgfd
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark.
£
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c., & c
({Wholesale and Retail).
gfd
g
dfg
fd
gfd
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
SPA,
r AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW 1
i THAT sparkles in THE LI. V rM.c }
GOLLIN & CO.,
A gen*s.
The Bulletin
V01.28.— N0. 1426.]
[Thursday, June 13, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


* An Easy Outline of Evolution, by Dennis Hird.
fR.P.A. Reprints, 6d.).
Seven Essays from Herbert Spencer. (R.P. A. Reprints,
6d.)
The Cycle of Life According to Modern Science, by
C. W. Saleeby. (Harper’s.)
Evolution, the Master-Key, by C. W. Saleeby. (Harper’s.)
New Conceptions in Science, by Carl Snyder. (Harper’s.)
The New Knowledge, by Robt. K. Duncan. (Hodder
and Stoughton, London. Fifth edition.)
The Nature and Origin of Life, by Felix le Dantec.
(Hodder and Stoughton, London.)
Electrons, by Sir Oliver Lodge. (Geo. Bell, London.)
The Origin of Life, Its Physical Basis and Definition,
by John Butler Burke. (Geo. Bell, London.)
The Fundamental Fallacies of Freetrade,
Bv L. S. AMERY. HE,NG FOUE addresses on the logical groundwork op
L. 9. > 'THE FREETRADE THEORY. CLOTH 3s, POSTAGE 3d.
PALL MALL PICTURES OF 1907.
T e best and most popular gu de t' t.he Royal Academy and New Gallery, containing- 200 reproductions
oi worss actually exhibited. Exclusive reproductions of work of J. S. SARGENT, R.A., and others and
a beautiful drawing specially made by Sir L. ALMA TADEMA, R.A. Wrapp r, size 11 x 8 inches, 1/6 posted.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. LTD., 71 CABTLEREAGH BTREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
g.hudso /v
Sold by Cbemtots. Tins, Is. 6d
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young'.
The Lancet : “ Proved to be as effective, bacterieidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps front tbs
Solo Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEM’S 9kfSt..
Agencies!* all' the Austraiian States, New Zealand, and at 320 ftegeot Street, Ixmdon. [a.
THE RED PAGE
THE POETRY Of MATTER
IHAYE been reading some of the new
poets —the strange new poets of to-day.
Their names may possibly prove un-
familiar to the literary scholar ; for
C. W. Saleeby, Carl Snyder, R. K. Duncan,
Sir Oliver Lodge, John B. Burke, Felix Le
Dantec, you will search literary text-books
in vain.*
Poetry ? you query. Yes, the poetry of
that new world of wonder upon whose thresh-
hold f the twentieth century stands. For,
within the last seven years, the human' race
has Secured a foothold in its evolution com-
parable only to the ground gained when the
first ape stood erect, or when the first man
became self-conscious and knew that he
existed. For, in the phrase of one of our
new poets, “the universe has become self-
conscious in the mind of man, and has '
acquired the awful power of influencing its
own destinies.” With the quick filtration
of this new knowledge into the human brain
we may expect an expansion of human
activities, a quickening of the imagination’s
pulse, before which the awakening of Europe
by the discovery of America becomes a feeble
memory. This decade has seen the dis-
covery, not of a continent, but of a universe.
The human playground, which has been
shrinking, shrinking at each onset of science,
until man found himself confined to the
limited surface of a bullet flying through
space, has been suddenly enlarged in every
direction toward infinity. It is as if we
were emerging into a fourth dimension in
space.
These doubtless seem big words. Read
the new poets. Yet these writers, these
tellers of the story of man’s advance toward
the conquest of the unknowable, are but
pedestrian poets who blaze the track that
the inevitable great poet of the near future
will follow. The sudden exaltation felt by
the Elizabethians under the swift onrush of
new possibilities produced Shakespeare, the
crest of that stupendous wave of belief and
hope. This discovery of a new universe
should produce a new and more wonderful
Shakespeare who, stirred and uplifted by
the infinitely richer future upon whose thresh-
hold we now stand, will synthesise and -em-
body the newly divined splendor of the
human heritage.
For the world into which these new poets
lead us is a world of dreams that seem on the
point of coming true. For the first time in
his evolution, man is consciously stepping
out of the dark, no longer merely guessing
at the riddle of existence, but provided with
instruments to probe, and measure, and
weigh. The importance of this new develop-
ment cannot be under-estimated ; for it is a
foothold that cannot be lost. Civilisations as
great as ours have risen and decayed, and
history has been but the ebbing and flowing
of a tide upon the shores of Time ; but now
consciously, surely, man has made one abid-
ing place secure upon the firm earth of
science. Future historians will mark 1900,
a. i)., as the beginning of science—-a date as
momentous as that when the giant sea-tilings
from the steaming ocean dragged their un-
wieldiy bulks up to the marshy shores, and
made man possible through the reptile and
the ape.
And what is the reason for this absurd con-
fidence ? These new poets, termed by the liter-
ary critic scientific writers, sum it up in one
phrase—the invention and use of mechanical
appliances. These mechanical aids, such as
the galvanometer, the lens, the dynamo, the
spectroscope, the voltaic pile, are the pillars
of modern science. As Carl Snyder, who is
a mere scientific journalist, less journalistic
than C. W. Saleeby, less scientific than R,
K. Duncan, observes
The whole extension of our knowledge beyond
that of the savage depends upon the means of
supplementing artificially our primitive senses.
. . . Our native senses give us but a slight notion
of the’real world about us ; they are crude, coarse,
inaccurate, unreliable, prone to delude. For the
upbuilding of the vast body of verified and unified
experience and experiment which we’call science,
there was required the invention of tools. ... It
is the acquirement and possession of these that
alone differentiates us from the old days. With-
out them . . .we should be speculating, dreaming
still. . .. Mechanics is the foundation upon which
the whole superstructure of science rests.
That is, man has not only improved his
coarse senses, but has actually added to his
primitive endowment of seven senses a whole
series of new senses. For the world that
science is now beginning to explore is essen-
tially a world beyond our senses, a world
unseen, unheard, unfelt. A flash from that
supra-sensual world came to us with the dis-
covery of the Rontgen rays. Our actual
glimpse of the visible universe is through a
narrow peephole or slit, on both sides of
which extends an impenetrable spectrum-
band stretching infinitely. Now science is
swiftly widening our window, and a new and
blinding light streams in. By means of
our new weapons we have added to our
senses an electric and a magnetic sense that
we were born without. In the camera we
have- developed an artificial eye that never
tires, that recognises things beyond our
world of vision. We have built ourselves
new fingers, new retinas, new ears. We
have succeeded in detecting, locating, map-
ping, measuring and weighing vast objects
that affect no human sense. The whole
trend of this new knowledge is in the direc-
tion of unity. The universe, while being a
marvellously complex thing, is beginning to
be recognised as inherently simple. The
evidence of the spectroscope seems con-
clusive that the material of the universe is
the same throughout, and that this material
is dominated by the same forces and the
same laws. The universe is possibly finite.
“There is no decisive reason to believe,”
remarks Carl Snyder, “that the number of
the stars is without end. ” Of course, there
remains the old query. If it is finite, some-
where out in space, you would come to the
end of mattter . . . and beyond that, what ?
A scientist once humorously suggested that
there would probably be a big brick wall;
and, further questioned as to what would
be found if one looked over the brick wall,
he logically opined that there wou|d be only
a collection of broken bottles.
J*'
And if space be finite, towards which
conclusion science seems to be reaching, it
can be measured and weighed . . . and domi-
nated ? For conceive the enormous store of
energy that within the last decade has been
proved to be imprisoned within the atom ;
compared with the energy that binds to-
gether the molecules, or in action when a
pinch of salt is dissolved in a glass of water,
gravity—the weakest of known forces—is
almost inconceivably feeble.
And if once we can unlock from the stable
atoms the stored energy which we see to-day
leaking from the atom of radium, what
changes would be wrought in this world !
Professor Thomson, as a result of his calcu-
lations, concludes that a gram of hydrogen
has within it energy sufficient to lift a million
tons ope hundred yards. The trouble is
that, while we know of the existence of this
energy, we can at present only observe, not
unlock it.
We have no real warranty (remarks R. K.
Duncan) that this infinity of energy will be tapped
by man, except this; That what man earnestly
longs for, lie will obtain. If he knows that every
breath he draws has contained within itself power
enough to drive the workshops of the world, he will
find out some day, some how, some way of tapping
that energy.
The new poets tell us the absorbing story
of that search. It has been playfully sug-
gested by Prof. Rutherford (the brilliant
Maorilander whom Maoriland could not
afford to keep at home) that some day it
might be possible to construct a detonator
which wouid send a wave of atomic disin-
tegration through the earth and decompose
the whole round world into helium, argon,
and other gases, leaving literally not a
wrack behind. And if that detonator were
to work, it would be hard to confine its
destructive power to the earth. What is to
prevent a scientific be-spectacled anarchist
of the future, having dined well and seeing
the futility of further human effort, from
lounging into his laboratory and quietly
turning a small brass key in his new cosmos-
detonator, and wiping out the universe ? The
idea has literary possibilities. It would
cause no little surprise and annoyance in
Paradise.
In addition to the probable finiteness of
the universe, and the assured homogeneity
of the universe, we can now say that it is
probable there is a fixed limit of speed for
all its mechanism. Light, heat, electricity,
X-rays—all the motions attributed to the
ether—clip through space at 184,000 miles
per second—no more, no less. No matter
whether the wave is a thousand feet
or a sixty-thousandth of an inch in length,
its rate of speed is exactly the same.
The speed of thought, it is curious to find, is
very much slower. But then thought is not
an ether-vibration. So the cosmos begins to
take on the similitude of a machine, the
parts qf which cannot work beyond a certain
limit of speed, possibly only with that
speed. In the opposite direction the
new poets tell us that their heroes,
those dim and silent figures lost in
the recekses of their laboratories —one
of the most famous of them all,
M. Berthelot, the founder of synthetic
chemistry, out of whose discoveries millions
have been made by the commercial world,
died the other month, and there were no
headlines in the papers—these heroes have
got near to the limits of the size of matter.
Matter is not infinitely divisible, but granu-
lar in structure. ‘ ‘ Matter is no jelly, but
is made up of grains,” declares R K.
Duncan, in his remarkable work, The New
Knowledge, which in a short space of time
has run into its fifth edition. We have got
down to primal matter—the ultimate units,
the ions or electrons, from which the
universe is made. But the physicists
have weighed the electron, measured its
velocity, and defined its properties. And
all its properties are electric. At first
they said, “It carries a charge of electricity ”
—and, curiously, always the same charge is
carried by a,n atom as by a cathode particle,
though one may be 100,000 times the size of
the other. Then they had to say, “It is a
charge of electricity.” But electricity is not
a material thing, but a form of energy. So
an electron, the brick out of which you and
the nebula; are built, is merely an atom of
energy. Electricity is evidently an invariable
property of matter ... or, if you will,
matter is electricity. As It. K, Duncan
proves:—
Matter has disappeared as.a fundamental exist-
ence ; it is explained as a manifestation of elec-
tricity. Mass has disappeared with matter, and
depends solely upon the velocity with which the
negative electron moves. ... As there is no nerve
action without the evident presence of electrifica-
tion, it is possible that we shall some day find that
nerve action, thought and consciousness, and what
in our present ignorance we call electricity, are
one and the same.
We shall see, when we consider Burke’s
work, to what these conclusions logically
lead.
&
But the main characteristic of the new
knowledge is the unification of all the differ-
ent sciences. The same problem of the con-
stitution of. the atom is being attacked by
the chemist and the biologist. Modern
science consists in closing the gaps be-
tween the sciences, in bridging over the
apparent chasm between the organic
and the inorganic, the living and the
dead. It is on these border-lines that
the scientists are groping—the border-
lines of life and the beginnings of
evolution. For this grand conception
is now established, that from the primal
bricks the universe has been built up
through the inorganic, the “dead,” to the
organic, the “living,” till it has reached
man, the self-conscious. Darwin traced the
evolution of the species ; the new poets tell
us of the evolution of the universe. It is a
world of miracles into which these new
poets lead us. They tell us of an excised
heart that can be kept beating for hours,
stopped, started, quickened, or slowed,
simply by slightly changing the chemical
character of the salt solution in which it is
placed. Professor Loeb and Professor J. B.
Burke are the chief of these modern miracle-
workers who play with life. For life itself is
a subject for analysis and explanation. All
..these works are occupied with the question,
“What is Life?” All are groping toward
a definition of Life—for if science defines a
thing it has made the first stride toward
capturing it. Le Dantec, in his extremely
technical book, tries his hand. As thus :
Life is only a surface accident in the history of
the thermic evolution of the globe. ... The whole
history of life is bound up with that of liquid
water; life is an aquati® phenomenon. .. . Life is
a succession of functions; the living being is a
succession of organs. . . .
Elsewhere life has been definitely labelled
“a series of ferments.” Pasteur thought
that the ferment went on because the
organism was alive, not that the ferment was
itself life. Buchner smashed that theory by
smashing yeast- cd&s by enormous pressure,
and from the sap, or liquor, which flowed
from the pulp he produced exactly the same
fermentive action as that of the yeast-cells.
Obviously, fermentation is due, not to the
cells, but to the chemical substance which
could be extracted from them. So life is a
ferment.
And what hope have we that ultimately
we will understand, and therefore control,
this marvellous universe into which we are
just now being beckoned ? The answer is,
Time. The human race, it has been cal-
culated, has an enormous age-limit before it
—probably three million years. Organised
knowledge is only three hundred years old.
Roughly speaking, man is now only a baby
one year old ; the chances are that he will
live to be a centenarian.
The New Knowledge remains the most re-
markable and explicit of all the new books of
the poetry of matter. It is, indeed, a tine
achievement to construct from the tentative
steps made by man within the last decade a
theory of the universe which seems destined
to stand—until a more satisfactory one is
enunciated—which is just as long as a scien-
tific theory can hope to exist. Here
the evidence for inorganic evolution is
plainly and convincingly stated ; and
the sweep and arrangement of the work
is admirable. It. K. Duncan is easily the
greatest of the new poets. Local booksellers
state that the sale of works such as those
enumerated is increasing to a remarkable
degree ; the man of the future, as Wells
suggested, is a man less interested in litera-
ture than in knowledge. The Australian,
too, means to know. The New Knowledge
gives a full account of the apparently simple
experiments by Prof. J. J. Thomson, with
tiny magnetised needles thrust through
disks of cork 'floating in water, from which
child’s pastime Thomson has furnished a re-
markable explanation of the arrangements
of the corpuscles within the atom—a sugges-
tion that, it is not too much to say, approxi-
mately explains the composition of matter.
In other words, Thomson explains chemical
affinity on electrical and mechanical models.
Chemical affinity is electrical affinity.
Chemical action means simply the power of
an atom to lose or acquire corpuscles, and
that power depends absolutely upon the
arrangement of the corpuscles within it,
which in its turn depends upon the number
of corpuscles the atom contains.
Professor Burke is not only a teller of
miracles ; he is a maker of them. A few
years ago he produced certain infinitesimal
things in an insignificant test-tube, and from
them constructed a - theory of the origin of
life. For in these radiobes, which were
generated in sterilised bouillon by radium—
both “dead” things—he has created a
species of life. He does not claim that he
has made living from absolutely non-living
matter, for in the new definition of life all
matter is living, but that
We have arrived at a method of structural
organic synthesis of artificial cells, which, if it
does not give us natural organic life such as we
see existing around us, gives us at least something
which admits of being placed in the gap, or, as it
might preferably be called, the borderland
between living and dead matter.
Burke proves the continuity of vital pro-
cesses—that the links between the organic and
the inorganic, between “living” and “dead”
matter, form an unbroken and continuous
chain. His radiobes are really a long-vanished
type of living matter, the unstable gropings
of Nature’s first experimental essays at life
—poor, fragile groups of atoms that could
not survive. From some more stable forms
the bacillus has at length been developed.
So we see the principle of the survival of
the fittest applies even to the atoms.
And what is this life, after all ? Burke,
like the other poets, suggests it is merely
mind—that matter is mind-stuff.
Life, in its ultimate form, would appear to be
the consequence of an aggregation of aetherial
units or electrons, the units of electricity, of which
all matter, too, is ultimately composed. . . . Life
is a property of matter as much as radio-activity
or electricity—or life and matter are merely dif-
ferent phenomena of electricity. The ultimate
vital substance corresponds to a state of
matter in the process of being—neither
molecular or atomic—a nebula of electrons
not yet condensed into a regular system. . ...
Matter, or the electrons of which matter is
composed, is mind-stuff. The atoms are nothing
more than ideas. . . . The great universe into
which we shall ultimately, consciously or un-
consciously, be resolved, is mind, and nothing
more or less than mind.
So this patient investigator, in his labora-
tory, weighing, testing, experimenting with
his fragile little radiobes, comes back at last
to the domains of metaphysics. Matter is
no more than a transient expression of a
transient electrical relation. Atoms are
electricity, and electricity is mind.
But having found out all about it, what
use is it anyway to us, poor ephemerides
upon a freezing buck-shot in space ? If the
universe is only a clock wound up
by the Creator, and slowly, but inevit-
ably, running down, there must come
the End. This theory, generally held a
decade ago, is going the way of other
materialistic theories. The new science has
discovered that some of the stars are growing
hotter, and that the earth is self -heating.
Rutherford shows that the radio-activity of
ordinary substances is in the right order of
magnitude to balance the loss of the earth’s
heat into space. But the great question is
yet unsettled, though the trend of scientific
belief is towards a recurrent rhythm of
existence, from nebula to nebula —a clock
that eternally winds itself.


QUALITY IS ECONOMY.
Office and - -
Library Furniture.
This Page is taken from Lassetter’s General Catalogue, 1,000 Illustrated
Pages. POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
OM 176—Revolving- Office Chair, Tilt-back, Cane Seat,
Stained Walnut. Price, 325. 6d.
OM 175 —Revolving- Office Oliair, Tilt-back, Cane Seat,
in Oak. Price, 375. bd.
OM 177— Revolving Office Chair, Tilt-back, Cane or
Upholstered Seat.
Price: Cane, 325. 6d. ; Upholstered, 375. fid.
OM 172—Austrian Office Stool.
Price, 6s. 6d.
OM 180—Office Washstand, with Fittings, Complete,
Stained Cedar or Walnut. Price, 375. bd.
Important Notice.
Please Quote Numbers when Ordering.
Send for Our Complete Catalogue.
Every Article Guaranteed as Stated.
m
Hii
011 179 —-Austrian Washstand, without
Toiletware, 225. 6d.
OM 174 —Austrian Revolving
Office Stool, Cane Seat.
Price, 20s.
OM 178—Austrian Office Oliair. Price, 14s. 6d.
OM 173—Office Arm Chair, Cane Seat. Price, 10s. 6d.
LASSETTER’S NOTED GOOD VALUES.
F. LASSETTER & Co. Ltd.. The Universal Providers,
Greater CHeapside, in tHe Heart of SYDNEYo
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1907.


fd
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
■B
CORSETS.
Are the most successful corset design ei
C’B“
ar created.
Prom
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
g
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance hold sway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet'guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
Obtainable in all styles from all
Progressive stores in Australasia-
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to .-
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., Flinders Lane,
A. E. Wittey, York Street, Sydney. Melbourne.
J. Bunting, Hobson Street, Auckland.
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses all the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
’for
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
*'l have only used your ‘HARLENE* for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop*
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
I/O l£t AP A l(\ per Bottle, from Chemists and
' * / ' Stores all over the world.
wJ/
SSS
.Edwards' “Harlene” Co.
wgjLZL;
London, w.e.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &C.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our (New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. l)on’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
SSe
Free
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES 6c STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES rhe B,d ri Z' h ° nhJ ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
fdg
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ;
post is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Kreutzer. Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of the Romish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates & engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Midwives’Handbook, 92i11u5., 2s6d, posted 2/10.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3/6. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Business Failure Impossible,
Is 6d. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to an.v address
Stamps or- Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
fd
Mi
yiuwiviv
®l®l©
©ICS©
©ICICI®
I
HWCICICIOIOIBU
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The most successful hunters shoot Winchester “New
Rival” Factory Loaded Shotgun Cartridges, blue in
color, because they can kill more game with them. Try
them and you will find that they are sure fire, give good
pattern and penetration and are satisfactory in every
way. Be sure and get Winchester Factory Loaded
“Newßival” Cartridges. Don’t accept any substitute.
ALL DEALERS SELL THEM
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
m
0
&
jr«9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grim wade & Co., Melbourne.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENQ’B 'FRUIT SALT;' Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,' FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNG„
by J. G. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
ARTEItt
gACWEB’S P°wllf i [POILtLS.
iius
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For .HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
_ , nil woma n should know that Liver Disorders
"w r 4 «b™''uvS
»«» ““ SSI k£“ nlipation ,t
PILLS, and above all UVER l PILLS . Liver
ComVaints ntw have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature oi
g


Doctors, lawyers, ministers, bank-
ers, merchants, business men every-
where, all rely upon
Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, whenever
they have a cough
or a cole 1 . They
keep it on hand, at
their home, at their
place of business.
They carry it with
them when they
w
V-,
travel. They say there is nothing so
bad for a cough as coughing, and
there is nothing so good for a
cough as
'Gherni 9eetoral
It is the best remedy in the world
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping
cough, influenza, and all throat and
lung troubles.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
*
m
ms
A Dainty Sample of
the world-famous Face
Cream— Creme Simon
—white, cream, or pink
powder, or a Cake of
Soap mailed free to any
address on receipt of Id.
stamp.
SOLE AGENTS, I
.JOOBERT&JOOBERTI
MELBOURNE .
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VL
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, lOd.
SCOTT’S EMULSION
A Delicate
BOY
THE EVIDENCE
from 59, Murray Street, Pyrmont,
Sydney, N.S.W., Sept. 9th, 1905. —
“A great sufferer from colds, my
little William was very delicate
and although. I tried many so-called
remedies he did not improve. At
last a friend, who had proved its
value for her own child, advised me
to give Scott’s Emulsion. At this
time William was recovering from
a sharp attack of pneumonia.
Scott’s Emulsion agreed well with
him, gave him a good appetite,
and now, after persevering in a
course of it, he is restored to com-
plete good health.” —(Mrs.) C.
Eegerstrom.
THE REASON WHY
HE GREW STRONG
He felt the benefit of the magnifi*
cent Lofoten (Norwegian) cod liver
oil always used in Scott’s. This
oil is the most strengtheuingin the
world. The Scott process of manu-
facture makes it so thoroughly
digestible that every particle
passes straightway into the tissues
of the body, quickly
filling them with new
vigour.
Secure these identi-
cal benetits for your
own child by seeing
“the fishman with the
fish ” on .every pack-
age of the genuine
Scott’s.
From all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicines.
fdg
trade mark
SCOTTS
EMULSION
“RESTORED HEALTH”
IRISH
G
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . ,
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
fd
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
STOPTHAT PAIN
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent “TBff
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches, in cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago\, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is alwaj's ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d< from “The
Bulletin ** Office.
The WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
gfd
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
<fcc.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Bciuii "Wrr&Sn
Purveyors to
g
His Majesty the
Kino and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT d. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney . v.
1
It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon se~ how
splendidly, how easily, an 1 how
thoroughly it cleans.
Sold by Local Chemists and St es.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Mane'
V The name
Plasmon'
distinguishes our
preparations of
milK°albumen
from ail other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteid, which Is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed with
PLASMON
are therefore more
nourishing than (
any others.
i
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THIS BULLETIN.]
The Meeting.
See yon fair lady ! Mark her queenly tread
As gracefully she moves along the street.
Note with what dignity she lifts her head
And passes on. Not thus we used to meet.
I wonder do her thoughts sometimes depict
The time, when, like a dream, she crossed my
life —
Ere I became a social derelict.
And she became a money-lender’s wife?
Take care, fair lady, lest your silken train
Should touch the skirts of that more humble
she
Who walks beside you ! They may still retain
Some faint aroma from the factory
Or shop, wherein she toils for daily bread.
She’s a mere woman, clothed in hard-earned
rags.
You are a lady, who preferred instead
To deck yourself with tainted money bags.
I knew you both, when each was young and fair,
And I was not so ugly, nor so old.
She gave her life for love—his life to share.
You flouted love, and sold yourself for gold.
Now, widowed, she must work for daily bread.
She dresses shabbily ; her cheeks are pale,
While you can wear a fortune on your head, .
Filched from some wretch who gave a bill-of-
sale.
Yet, when her weary eyelids close in rest,
She lives again the spring-time of her youth.
Her soul seeks his, among the ever-blessed.
And wakes, refreshed, to innocence and truth.
What are your dreams, when tossing restlessly
Beside the Bloated One to whom you’re sold ?
Ak<s 'ithey raf Ibnen whose grinding poverty
Has splashed with blood your foul, ill-gotten
gold
Do shades of greasy, hook-nosed bailiffs seek
To steal your gew-gaws as you lie asleep ?
Do famished wives, and babes with pallid cheek,
In sighing crowds around your curtains creep ?
And do you wonder, when at break of day
You hear the storm, and wake in sudden fright,
Whether the wretches, sold off yesterday.
Have perished in the wintry streets at night ?
N.S.W.
THOS E. SPENCER.
The Vision.
Night comes to me remorsefully,
The draughty stars subside and smur,
Or blaze with horror where the sea
Licks on the edge of Hell’s hot spur.
The tramping millions of the dead
With wailing songs and loamy rags
Push, thumb-tied, past my truckle-bed
Twelve-thick, like devil-driven stags.
There have 1 seen the mitred beast,
(His crozier-staff, crepusculine,
Supported by a recreant priest
With books and candles, bread and wine);
His smoke-white lips hooked up beneath
The shadow of his plough-share nose ;
His eyes turned, fainting, where the wreath
Of Satan’s umber furnace glows.
And all his scented raiment flares
With sparks and spouts of dropping flame,
Despite his gabbled Latin prayers
And cries on God’s neglected name.
Too late ... too late. His greasy flesh
Makes fat and fuel for the stake
Set i’ the thickest toss and thresh
Of Tophet’s red avenging lake.
Perdie ! The dirty lazar-thief,
The cut-purse harlot and her man
Have twice the earnest of relief
Than this high pontiff of his ban.
A curse on all hypocrisy !
A curse on ev’ry covered crime !
The eyes of God but magnify
The sin laid up till Judgment time. . . .
Lo ! Slowly thro’ the haggard night
The floating winds with dust festoon
And dim and blot the shining white
Curved beauty of the half-sword moon.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Ciss.
Oiss is bilious, tint’s her fault,
And on bilious days looks yellow.
But on good days, cry a halt,
She’s bewitching to a fellow ;
Then doth health her cheeks adorn,
Peerless then, she’s supercilious,
Then I’m forced to plead and fawn,
Till she once again is bilious.
Cakes and oranges and stuff
(Ciss, alas, is fond of feeding),
Make her liver groan and puff,
Then I’m haughty, and she’s pleading :
Bless me ! next day health begins.
She grows peerless, contumelious.
I must then confess my sins ;
She confesses—when she’s bilious.
Eyes of blue, how sweet they are,
Breasts divinely round and tumid,
Hair like thread-beams of a star,
Lips all rosy, soft and humid—
Ruddy cheeks enhance her charms.
But they make her grow punctilious,
I prefer her in my arms,
Cissy’s limp when Cissy’s bilious.
Oh, the joy of holding Ciss
In my arms, our lips uniting !
Oh, the rapture of a kiss
All the soul to love inciting !
Pliant then, her eyelids fall,
No more is she supercilious.
Love is monarch over all,
Cissy’s mine when Cissy’s bilious.
N.S.W.
RELWOF.


fdg
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFP, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to
The Manager.
'ms
%sshi
Sold by
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
■Watches, just forwarded to every JE2WEULER
In the Colonies.
- % Certificate Given W/m Each Watch.
//V- 00 *'
6 ft9 \V '««s
Vft*' VV 189? /r«6
Estate
1750.
f /
s
ROTMEHHAfIS
s
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Curas,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
- sricuumiuuK
Scotch whsky
fd
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
REFERENDUM
UnammousElection
of the
Celebrated
n
ThePremierPipe
of the World
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
Henry Sionner,
CJareiidon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101,3. CATERER.
Mr. Skinner lias a very extensive and carefully
selected PI. ANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Y. j. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
fCADBURYSI
Milk Chocolate.
A concentrated sweetmeat-food of the highest order.
More nourishing and sustaining than any other.
Doctors and Analysts are unanimous in their praises
of its purity and food value. Refuse to accept sub-
stitutes. CADBURY’S is the VERY BEST IT
IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. Prepared in a
scrupulously clean factory situated in the open green
fields of the Old Country, by the Manufacturers of
Cadbury’s Cocoa
of which “ The Lancet ” says
it is “ The Standard of high-
est purity,” while “ Health ”
calls it “A Perfect Food.”
y
A
7.
Vl
/<*♦:
/k
?A
■A> "M
W u
A " (l '*' l ' , VSs
DAM PCO U RSc
gfd
g
fdg
fd
THE DEMON OF DAMPNESS
is powerless when the foundations of
your house are laid with RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE. Within the magic
circle of that protecting strip moisture
k cannot possibly enter.
RUBEROID
may be obtained
from all
Store Keepers.
The Wholesale Agents
are
E. RICH & CO.
LTD.,
Sydney and Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 28. No. 1426.
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 1907.
Pkiok 6d.
A RISING SCULPTOR—HIS LATEST WORK.
(This great work, to be seen in Melbourne Art Gallery, has been erroneously supposed to be merely a gorilla carrying off a woman.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office. Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you 'every 'week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
lloiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to- the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and, even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
alivays is.
S/>ecial Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'Jo A inateurs in Itlncle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetoivn ;
The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A dents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size (ifin. x lhin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired. ~,
TTie^zzlleZz/n.
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, 1907.
JOSEPH’S NEW IDEA IN NASTINESS.
AcTiNG-Prime Minister Forrest told the State
Premiers that, in the matter of the State debts,
the Commonwealth was about to go ahead and do
the work with which the people entrusted it seven
years ago. Thereupon, having dodged the busi-
ness for so long, Carruthers, of N.S. Wales,'
propounds still another scheme, not merely of
dodging the business a little longer, but of “ dish-
ing ” the Commonwealth altogether. This sort of
policy is the price which N.S. Wales pays for
having for its Premier an attorney with a Police
Court mind —and a suburban Bobby Court at that.
If the magistrate won’t let the accused off because
he was drunk when he did it, then the Police
Court attorney is prepared to change his ground
and demand an acquittal because the accused was
sober and everybody else was drunk, and there-
fore incredible. The Police-Court attorney’s
one business in life is to “dish” the
other side. Carruthers brings that fine,
statesmanlike quality into the service of
N.S. Wales, and seems proud of it. He pro-
poses, in short, to put the debt where the Com-
monwealth can’t touch it—or where he thinks it
can’t; which, by the way, is much the same sort
of offence for which, a few days previously, a couple
of partners were committed for trial. The differ-
ence between the two cases is that, the partners
being practical men, they are alleged to have put
assets where they would be out of the way ; Car-
ruthers, being merely cantankerous, proposes to
put liabilities away where nobody else can reach,
them, and pay them off. His idea is to “partially
hand over the debt to the Railway Commissioners
as a corporate body,” and then hand over some
more to the Water and Sewerage Board—pre-
sumably also as a corporate body—and when he has
got rid of the debt that way he will, he reckons, have
a freer hand to throw mud at the Commonwealth
—that Commonwealth of which Carruthers still
insists that the Ma State is the most important
part. This/seems to show that Carruthers
doesn’t care how much mud gets into the Ma
State’s eye, so long as he can land some into any
other State’s ear.
* * * *
Joseph’s Police-Court attorney’s scheme is very
pretty, no doubt; but it can be looked at from
two or three different points, and Joseph has
apparently missed most of them. lhere is
Cohen’s point of view, for instance, Cohen
didn’t lend the money on the security of the rail-
ways alone. He lent it on the security of the
railways, lands, Customs and Excise, and of the
country generally; and the security of the
country means the power of taxing the country.
And up to now Chief Railway Commissioner Tom
Johnson hasn’t the power to levy so much as a
dog-tax. He can’t even say what the railway
rates shall be. The other day, when Carruthers
was sure that he had accomplished a surplus
(he accomplished it mostly by selling public lands,
and so reducing the real revenue for all time), his
Government instructed the Railway Commis-
sioners to cut large slices out of their rate-book,
and they did it. Seeing, then, that the Com-
missioners can’t even levy a dog-tax, and don’t
control the railway freights, and haven’t any
means of raising the interest apart from the taxes
they can’t levy and the freights they don’t control,
Cohen may have a word or two to say about
Joseph’s little “dishing” scheme. Also, for
much the same reasons, the Commissioners may
have a word or two to say about it. They will
point out that they, or their predecessors, reported
against many of the railways that Carruthers’
£50,000,000 has been spent upon ; also that they
will probably report against a good many more
railways that will be forced upon them ; and
they will require to know why they should be
saddled with a debt for something that they
didn’t want. Then, if Joseph replies that for the
future the railways are to be run as a business
enterprise, and must pay their way, it may relieve
the Commissioners of a little anxiety, but the
Backbone of the Country will start to be
interested. No doubt for the purpose of im-
pressing the country with the genuineness of its
mostly bogus surplus, the Carruthers Govern-
ment lately reduced the freights on the Backbone’s
produce, and the charge for the suburban tra-
veller’s season ticket ; and that sounds like
prosperity. But, though there was a railway
surplus in 1905-6, and will be another this year,
for 14 years before that there had been a net
shortage of £2,301,413. In other words, if the
railways had been worked as “ business enter-
prises,” and were looked to for full interest,
then the Backbone, and the suburban traveller,
and the rest of them, would in those 14 years have
had to pay £2,301,413 more than they did.
And, of course, if the debt is transferred to the
Commissioners, and they are told that they must
earn the interest, the £2,301,413 will have to be
paid; also, there won’t be any starving-stock
rates; and the gentleman who wants a new rail-
way built to develop the country will be asked to
call round again with a marked cheque to guar-
antee the interest and working expenses. From
that gentleman’s point of view, as well as that of
the Backbone of the Country and the other
railway users, Joseph’s scheme will probably
be observed to have several holes in the bottom
of it.
* * * *
And even Joseph himself may discover, as he
goes along, that the scheme is loaded. He says
that the railways represent so much of the
debt, and he proposes to pass on that much
to the Commissioners, and to do the same with
the water and sewerage debt. Then there will be
£22,000,000 left, of which about £2,750,000 repre-
sents borrowed money put into post and tele-
graphs, and defences. The other £19,250,000
represents nothing in particular; the odd thou-
sand that was fooled away on this work, and the
odd hundred that was guzzled and put down to a
punt, or a drain-pipe, or something. After every
million has been passed on that is represented by
anything that is earning anything, there will still
be a sediment of nearly 20 millions of debt; and,
when Cohen remembers the assurances that his
money was all going into permanent and repro-
ductive works, he will look at the sediment and
probably decide that it had better be got rid
of before any further transactions are carried
through.
• * * *
But even if Carruthers’ silly, puerile freak
were possible—if the Railway Commissioners
would accept the responsibility for £50,000,000 of
debt, if Cohen would accept their security, and if
the people would stand the big increase of rates
that would be necessary in bad times to make the
railways earn full interest on their liabilities —
even if all these things were possible, the Car-
ruthers device is still just as useful as a piece of
wet blotting-paper would be when regarded
as a means to obstruct the progress of an
ironclad that was in a hurry. It really makes no
earthly difference whether Joseph transfers
£50,000,000 of debt to the Railway Commissioners,
or the Water and Sewerage Board, or the
Methodist Conference, or the Society for the Con-
version of the Jews, or to the committee in charge
of the Salvarmy doss-house. The absolute
powers of the Commonwealth to take over the
£202,000,000 of State debts which existed at the
beginning of our Federation remain exactly the
same. So do its powers to obtain an amendment
of the Constitution, and, on the strength of that,
to take over any subsequent debts ; and its powers
to convert those debts, and establish sinking
funds for their reduction. As regards the
£202,000,000 of State debts which date back to
1901, all that is necessary is for the Aus-
tralian Parliament to pass the necessary short
Act, to intimate that the interest on cer-
tain loans will henceforth be paid by
the Commonwealth, and to deduct the necessary
amount from the Surpluses' now returned to the
States. If a frantic Joseph likes to grit his teeth
and assert his State dignity by paying the interest
over again, the Commonwealth need not object,
and the bond-holders will be quite pleased. Then
the Commonwealth can invite the bond-holders to
exchange their State securities for Federal ones;
or can simply pay off State loans as they fall due,
and for so much of the loans as the Federal sink-
ing funds will not cover, it can raise the money
by the issue of Federal securities. If Joseph
so far refuses to recognise the transfer of the debts
as to insist on also paying off loans as they fall
due, the bond-holders will gladly accept the two
payments; But Joseph will be politically dead
and gone long before that time. Meanwhile, if
he gets too much in the road, the Australian
Government may be induced to ask the High
Court to order that little State Fright to obey the
law. And if he doesn’t obey it the High Court
may get angry and commit him for contempt.
* * * *
Joseph Carruthers, in fact, has struck an
am'azingly silly Police Court idea of establishing
an alibi, or concealing the identity of the wanted
person under an alias. The Commonwealth has
jiower to take over, a certain State debt, and
Joseph proposes to call the thing a railway debt,
so that it won’t be recognisable when the Com-
monwealth calls for it. The creditors will be the
same, the bonds will be the same, the amount
will be identical, the same Treasury will pay the
interest, and it will be the same interest —in fact,
the accused will have the same features, clothes,
boots, hat, address, and everything ; but, whereas
he used to be Jones, he will now say that
he is Smith, yet all the time the old Jones
door-plate will be on his door. It is
a freak proposal, and hasn’t any possible sort
of hope of ever being adopted ; yet Carruthers
can accidentally do more good than he would
ever be likely to do intentionally by elaborating it,
and showing up the size of that part of the N.S.
Wales debt which is largely represented only by
good intentions and bad and still-remembered
headaches. If he sets that out clearly enough,
he may stir up N.S. Wales to do something
reasonable in the way of clearing this sediment
out. True, that seems to be the last thing that
Caeruthers wants to do. Apart from sheer can-
tankerousness, there is only one reason why any
State insect should try to block the transfer of the
debts to the Commonwealth, and that reason is
the determination of the Commonwealth to get
rid of the debts. As Bigjohn Forrest told the
Brisbane party, the Commonwealth Government
is wedded to a sinking fund ; and in that bit of
projected honesty lies the Commonwealth’s real
offence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Ineffective Tariff.
The best test of whether the existing duties offer
enough protection to Australian work people, and
those who have put money into Australian
industries, is the movement of imports in lines
that are supposed to be protected. Commonwealth
Statistician Knibbs has just supplied data for
this test, by producing his first trade figures. They
cover the opening three months of the year, and
show that £12,210,306 of foreign goods arrived, as
against £10,773,463 in the first quarter of 1906.
Thus the foreigner supplied, in these three months,
a million and a half more value in goods than he did
in the same part of last year. Therefore, as a full
fourth of that represented labor, Australia paid the
foreign workman over £300,000 more than it did in
1906. Meantime an Arbitration Court is sitting, to
hear that so many Australians are available for
the job of passing on the imported calico to the
public, that adult assistants, some of them married,
can be got for 255. per week. Here are half-a-
dozen or so specific samples of the Australian
suicide that results in married shop assistants at
255. a week :
Jan.-Mar., Jan.-Mar.,
1906. ' 1907.
Apparel £3,155,934 £3,472,638
Cordage and twines .. .. 136,271 142,876
Furniture .. .. .. 47,398 55,518
Hats and caps 119,904 130,785
Agricultural tools .. .. 84,828 115,775
Bar and rod iron .. .. 202,437 235,823
Galvanised iron.. .. .. 282,197 369,818
Machines (not agricultural) .. 436,810 593,962
Metal goods 283,956 326,089
Paints .. .. .. .. 86,896 97,502
On account of the great natural resources that the
papers talk about, almost every one of those lines
represents goods which Australia is in a better
position to produce than all the world besides, if
the industry were but once put on its feet and
protected against foreign cheap labor afterwards.
In fact, a great quantity of the imports must
actually be made by foreign labor out of Austra-
lian material, which has been humped to the
other end of the earth and back again—at the ex-
pense, of course, of the Australian producer in the
first place, and the Australian consumer in the
second place. Wool, for instance, for the manu-
facture of apparel, also lead, zinc, and antimony
for the manufacture of paints, are simply poured
into Europe from Australia, to be shipped
back again after they have furnished the
European laborer with work, the Euro-
pean manufacturer with profits, and the
European capitalist with industries to pro-
fitably finance. The Australian not only
misses all that, but he pays enormous sums for
totally unnecessary cartage, not of those articles
only, but also of the wheat and things that the
man at the other end of the earth consumes while
he is making up the Australian goods, when he
might just as well be consuming them at this end.
So what between not earning the money he ought
to earn, and paying away huge sums that he
needn’t pay away, the Australian worker finds
his wages bitten off at both ends; and when, on
the strength of a testimonial from a Judge or
somebody, he creeps into a job at serving out
tape, he finds the bitten wages are as much as £1
a week. Then, remembering that McMillan, the
typical softgoodsman, is a Eoreign-trader, he
reckons it is up to him to be a Foreign-trader too,
so that he can “get things cheap.” Poor chap,
he doesn’t see the difference between the Fat Man,
and the mite in the cheese that tUe Fat Man gets
fatter on !
4,
The Rev. Stinking Fish.
Fitchett, of the steal magazine, and the indus-
trious scissors, and the enthusiastic paste, and
the strangely bungled historical writings, is
either curiously ignorant of history or he has
awful ill-luck in the way of being misreported.
Consider, for instance, the account of his recent
lecture on “ The Motherland and her Children,”
at Stanmore Wesleyan Church (Sydney). Here
is Jingo Fitchett waving the blanky shirt in his
best form :
The secret of Britain’s wealth was her industrial genius,
and it was due also to her Protestantism and the open
Bible. The only patch of soil in Europe that for 890
years had never felt ihe touch of an invader’s foot was
the Motherland of our race. (Applause.) Those 800
years of peace had helped to make England rich. . . .No
continental country enjoyed the liberty of England;
There was the amplest freedom with the most stable
order. England lost her American colonies through
attempting to tax them, but she made no such attempt
with Australia. Bather, the boot was on the other leg.
Whilst England forebore to tax us, we taxed every bale
of goods that came from the Motherland. Magnanimous
mother, not to complain !
Think of Fitciiett’s historical accuracy ! Maud
of Germany invaded England about 1139, and
knocked the country about for several years'. A
little later her son Henry landed with French
soldiers to argue the point with Stephen,
the howling swordsman of Blois. A French
prince invaded England less than 700 years
ago, and had not a-hot-headed French general
allowed himself to be led into a scrambling
battle in the harrow streets of Lincoln, Louis,
nicknamed the Lion, might have secured the
country. There was a Dutch invasion not much
more than 200 years ago, which changed the
course of history. There were quite a number of
Scotch invasions—the last less'than 200 years ago.
There was an Irish army doing battle in England
within the period that Fitchett mentions,
though it was only a sort of an army and may
be left out of the tally. Also French and
Burgundian soldiers trod the soil of England
at various times in support of various pretenders.
Apparently Fitchett, the historian, has never
heard of these events. As for Fitciiett’s state-
ment that Australia taxes “every bale of goods
that comes from the Motherland,” that is simply
a falsehood —the falsehood of an excited Jingo
preacher who didn’t even t’ake the trouble to read
up the Australian tariff before he held forth. It
would be no disgrace to Australia if the state-
ment were true, for we have as much right to
practise Protection for the purely selfish reason
that we think it will pay us to do so, as
England has to practise Freetrade for the
purely selfish reason that it thinks there
is profit in that policy. But Fitchett evi-
dently regards it as a disgraceful act to tax
every bale of goods that comes from “ the Mother-
land.” He throws the statement at us, regarding
it as mud. Therefore, it is worth while to tell
Fitchett that we don’t do what he alleges, and
that he is throwing what he regards as mud with
a shocking disregard of the truth. Furthermore,
it may astonish Fitchett to know that some of
the things we export to England pay rather heavy
duties there, and that England’s Customs duties
average over 6 per cent, on all the country’s
imports. If Fitchett knows these things, why
does he mangle the truth so disgracefully ? If he
doesn’t know them, why does he set up in business
as an instructor ?
. ♦
Subsidies and State Rights and Things.
The large capacity of Anti-Sosh for swallowing
Socialistic subsidies is getting it into trouble.
The Victorian millers and big, anti-Sosh wheat
dealers induced Victoria to give a shipping firm a
subsidy of £2OOO a year to run a line to Singapore
and thereabouts; and S. Aus., which had a
Singapore flour business already, screams that
the thing is unfederal and unconstitutional,
because i„ means that now the Vic. flour and
wheat men will be able to undersell the S. Aus-
tralian exporters, who have to pay all their own
freight. So long as there are States, there will be
that sort of subsidy, anyway. The one cure for
it is unification, and the one way to make the
disease spread and get worse is to whittle away
instead of extending the force and functions of
the Federation. The £2OOO is a small matter
compared with the help a State can freely give
through its railways, even if all the present
powers of the Commonwealth are exercised;
N.S. Wales, for instance, the other day subsi-
dised its farmers to the extent of tens of
thousands a year at one pop. And S. Aus-
tralia subsidises its wool and wheat and wine
growers by running an export depot; _ and
N.S. Wales subsidises its exporters to Singa-
pore and thereabouts by paying the large salary
of an expensive commercial traveller and secretary
to buzz for business in those parts. Queensland
used to also relieve its merchants of the necessity
of paying a commercial traveller in Asia by pay-
ing Jones ; but Jones, though he is still the
Queensland Commercial Agent, gets his com-
mission from the merchants — Kidston being
Premier up that way now —and confesses to an
income of £lOOO a year or more. It is just as well
for the crowd that is calling out about State Rights
to remember what State Rights mean. They don’t
simply mean the right of the State to give back-
talk to the Commonwealth ; they mean also the
right of the States to pick one another’s eyes out.
That sort of thing may suit the big State;
but the little State is liable to lose its eyes,
and be shortly in need of a dog and a piece
of string and a stick. Yet it is the little
State like Tasmania which is readiest to follow
Carruthers’ lead in yapping about State Rights;
which only shows what a great fool a little State
may be. There is another aspect also of this subsidy
business. Price, at the Premiers’ Conference in
Brisbane, ran in a motion at the last moment de-
ploring this sort of policy, but withdrew it after
an unreported discussion. Yet he was sure of
quite a lot of sympathy. But if, on behalf of the
Australian producer—not the producer of any one
small patch of the Commonwealth —a Premier
had protested against vast sums being spent to
subsidise foreign-owned mail steamers, so that
the bill for the imported blanket might arrive 36
hours earlier than otherwise, he would most likely
have been laughed at. Even the nominally Pro-
tectionist States have a great deal too much re-
spect for the importing Joss.
“A Link.”
Now that the British Government has laid it
down, for the manyth time, and with an emphasis
which must at last have driven the fact into the
thickest State cranium, that all its dealings with
Australia must go through the Commonwealth
Government, it is surely time that the imported
State Governor was abolished. He was supposed
to be a "link” binding each separate State to the
beloved Ma Land, but since Britain itself has
decided to become officially unaware of the exist-
ence of the States, and refuses to know that there
is anything at the other end of the "link,” what
in thunder is the use of the “ link ” ? Apparently
it is now merely a scrap of broken chain
which Ma drags behind her. When two
things are tied together, and the second thing
isn’t there, and consequently the first thing
is only tied to itself, the natural result is that the
first thing is only encumbered with a lot of use-
less rope. And there are so many better uses to
which rope could be put. If the imported State
Governors were abolished, with all their useless
attendants, hangers-on, uniforms, private secre-
taries, aides-de-camp, residences, travelling ex-
penses, frills and passementerie, and the real work
of the billet, which is mostly a matter of assenting
to Bills and receiving the frequently-far-too-rare
resignation of a State Ministry, were entrusted
to a deputy appointed by the Governor-General,
Australia might save enough in Course of time to
build a battleship. And a good battleship could
communicate with the British Government if war
happened. If it dropped a big shell right on the
head of one of Bull’s enemies it would be some-
thing like a “ link.” Unfortunately the recent
Conference of Local Premiers was too much
occupied with matters of its own dignity to con-
sider the Australian, aspect of the case. It didn’t
exactly curse the British Government for refusing
to communicate with Australia except through
the Commonwealth authorities, but it was very
angry at the Commonwealth for being there to be
communicated through. Not daring to curse the
man at the other end of the tube, it denounced
the tube.
«.
The Fighting Jew.
“ Philo ” makes a few statements
Re The Bulletin’s remark (8/5/’O7) that the Russian
Jew has no fighting record. On the contrary, the Rus-
sian Jew has a more substantial record of military
achievement than the Jew of any otheivcountry. In the
Crimean war he was very conspicuous, and his fighting
proclivities received special recognition. Then one of the
most brilliant feats of heroism in the Russo-Turkish dis-
turbance was performed by a Jew named Moisch Fkioe.n-
baun. He and a large number of other Jews marched
into the bed of a river and flung themselves down in the
water to form a human causeway for the passage of the
o-uns and their names were inscribed on the Russian Roll
of Honor for the deed. Of the exceptionally large
number of American Jewish soldiers who served in the
Spanish-American war, and to whose bravery President
Roosevelt gave special tribute, the majority were
Russians One regiment, of six hundred men, the Man-
hattan Rifles, which did particularly good work, was
composed entirely of Russian Jewish emigrants. In
proportion to their numbers, the Jews sent more soldiers
to South Africa than the English themselves, and
most of them were sons of Russian emigrants.
In the recent Bear-Monkey affair, Russian official
figures show that there were, proportionally, 8 per cent,
more Jews in the war than people of any other Bear race.
In the battle of Lioyang 2000 Jews were killed, and at


Mukden the number was muoh larger. So many Jews
served in the army in Manchuria that the unleavened
bread sent out to them at the Passover (1905) filled a
special train of 24 carriages. A number of Russian
generals—especially the great Kuropatkin —during the
war repeatedly referred to the “ valor and courage of
their Jewish soldiers. Carl Joubert said; “In the Russian
army there is no more useful soldier than the Jew.” Also,
a number of Russian newspapers alluded to tjie extra-
ordinary bravery of the Jewish soldiers (I’ve seen the
translations.) Yet, among many other disabilities, a
Russian Jewish soldier cannot become .an officer, and
the 47 roubles which are given to the widow of a
Russian soldier killed in action are withheld by law
from the widow of the Hebrew soldier. Although the
number of Jews accepted in the Russian medical schools
is restricted by law to between three and ten per cent, of
the students, and although in time of peace no Jewish
doctor receives an appointment for the army or navy, at
least one-half of the medical men sent to the front in the
Bear-Ape war were Jews. Sixty-five of them went from
Warsaw alone. (This information is from a Russian
source.) The Odessa correspondent of the London
Standard, who personally showed very little sympathy
for the Jews, wrote : “ It is admitted that 52 per cent, of
the medical students at the front in Manchuria are
Jews.” Forty-five out of the ninety doctors who went on
active service from the medical school atKarbinwere
Jews. In face of these facts—and they are all positive
facts — The Bulletin’s remarks look like an attempt to
rob Mars of his Jew.
No Money to Spend on Australia.
The State Premier of N.S.W. has supplied a new
and fairly clear definition of his own patriotism.
He is willing that Australia should be saved, if it
doesn’t cost him anything; but if it is going to
cost him anything, Australia, it would seem, may
just go and be lost. Joseph Carruthers is quite
ready to admit that the Northern Territory, as it
stands, is a vast danger to Australia. It
is close to hostile Asia, it is unpeopled
and ungarrisoned ; and if it were occu-
pied by an enemy who had command of
the sea, there is no railway along which assistance
could be sent. Moreover, it is still a British
Crown colony, administered on sufferance by
S.A., but liable at any moment to be resumed and
made a dependency of India or Burmah, or
Singapore, or handed over to a Chartered Co. and
run on purely nigger principles. Britain still
retains the right to assume direct possession at a
moment’s notice, and then the White Australia
law, and every other Australian law, would cease
to have any value so far as one-sixth of this conti-
nent is concerned. Carruthers admits all these
things, and, so long as “ the States ” (which
include all the people of Australia) don’t require
to pay anything, he thinks measures should be
taken to obviate the danger. If there is anything
to be paid, then, apparently, he would rather let
Australia t- Iter on the verge of the precipice, or
fall over t'n.i precipice. Not only does Joseph
not propose to shed his blood to save his country
if need be; lie doesn’t propose to shed even 2d.
Here is his own statement: —
I acUnit that while we have the Northern Territory un-
developed it is a menace to the rest of Australia ; but I
say, if the Commonwealth Government is going to take
it over at a time when the needs of the other States are
unprovided for by the present revenue, that we have a
right to object to the proposal so far as it affects our
finances, Throw the onus on the Federal Parliament—
they have to deal with this matter, if the Commonwealth
members are favorable to it. I do not express an opinion
Whether they will be favorable or not, but, if they are
favorable, throw the onus upon them of making an
arrangement which will not prejudicially affect ■ the
States which, unfortunately, cannot afford to be prejudi-
cially affected. . . Why should the rest of Australia,
which has had to pay the price of its pioneering work
and which has still a great amount of pioneering work to
do—why should the rest of Australia be taxed to develop
this portion of Australia at this particular juncture? . . .
Let US tell the Commonwealth Prime Minister that WE
would prefer to have an arrangement made which would
not involve US at this juncture in a definite loss. If this
railway can be constructed without any sacrifice of OUR
interests, let it be constructed.
It is hard to find words to express the contempt
that every decent Australian ought to feel for the
person who is willing that his country should be
protected if it-doesn’t cost him anything. And the
huge insolence of Joseph almost surpasses even his
readiness to let his country take its chance.
The Australian Parliament, created by the Aus-
tralian people, proposes, with their consent, to
spend a little of their money on their defence, for
the railway to the Northern Territory is as essen-
tial an item of defence as the military forces
themselves. The State Governments will still get
back the three-fourths of the Customs and Excise
revenue to which they are entitled, and beyond
that they have no claims whatever. In giving
advice to the Australian Parliament as to how it
should run a purely national matter, the effront-
ery of this mere local personage is akin to that of
Rockefeller’s office-kid telling Rockefeller
how to run the business. And the “we” and
“us” of the purely local Insect are very much
out of place. In local drain-pipe matters “we”
are the mayor and aldermen, and “us” are the
ratepayers. In matters dealing with State lands,
and a few similar items “we,” in N.S.W., are
Carruthers and his colleagues, and the State
electors are “ us.” In national concerns like
Defence, posts, telegraphs, the settlement of
the Federal capital and the matter of the
Northern Territory, the Australian Government
and Parliament are “ we” and the whole body of
Australian electors are “us.” When Joseph
Carruthers, as a mere local calamity, with no
more voice in Federal affairs than any other Federal
elector, brings forward resolutions about national
affairs at a meeting of officials as purely local as
himself, he is simply a petty and cheeky person
who doesn’t know his own limitations. When the
same Joseph proposes that our motherland should
be left exposed to the worst danger that has ever
befallen it unless itoan be rescued without tberescue
costing him anything—well, when he does that, he
is just Joseph, and nothing much worse can be
said of Carruthers in a political sense than that
he is just himself. That covers everything. And
when he takes up the attitude that N.S.W. can’t
afford to pay a trifle towards the protection of
Australia—the Australia which is alleged by the
Carruthers crowd to be mostly N.S.W.-—at a
time when it has about the biggest surplus in its
history, and proposes to reduce taxes and to
“blew” much public money on the subsidising of
friendly societies (Druids, Buffaloes and the like)
—well, again there is nothing worse to be said of
him than that he is himself. Contempt ends there.
Joseph has no money for Australia, but he has
money for Druids.
<r ——
Australian Naval Defence.
The Bulletin recommends’this letter to the con-
sideration of all Australians :
Dear Bulletin.—l am weary alike of W. H. Kelly and
Captain Creswell. The problem of Australian defence
contains more things than either of them dream of. The
M.H.R. has been reared on the axioms, and postulates of
Mauan, and could make out a good enough case if there
were anything in the Yankee captain’s theories to meet
the Australian situation. But there is not. Our position
as far as naval defence, or want of defence, is concerned,
is absolutely unique, and no appeal to history will throw
any light on it.
As for Creswell and his toy flotilla, the thing is either
a joke or an imbecility. Any compliance with this scheme
would mean sheer waste of money, and would delude the
easily cajoled Australian public into an utterly unfounded
sense of security.
Let us go over the facts again. We can never do this
too often.
Ever since the days of the great Armada, with the
exception of a period, when the Dutch disputed its
supremacy, the British navy has been the cock of the
seas, and it could truly be said in Mahanic phrase that
the frontiers of England Were the coasts of her enemies
all over the world. Tne enemies’ fleets were penned up
in their ports, and if they got out, the maxim was to fol-
low them up and destroy them.
But this policy has been completely changed during
the last few years. The British War vessels have been
withdrawn from the Seven Seas, and concentrated for
defence in British waters. Two' years ago, there
were four battleships on the China station ; to-day there
is none. The Mediterranean licet has been weakened,
so has the North American.
The objective of the fleet is now, and will remain, not
the coast-lines of the continents, but a narrow strip of
shore on the North Sea.
We in Australia are guaranteed from offence from that
quarter, and if that were the only direction from which
danger could threaten, we could sleep soundly in our
beds o’ nights, and be justified in voting a subsidy of a
million to the Imperial navy.
Because the real menace to the future of Australia has
only become visible during tile last year or two, most
men have failed as yet to grasp ils significance. Three
times nearer our shores than the massed Imperial navy,
exists a fleet, small, but second to none in efficiency, and
about to become infinitely more formidable by the early
addition to it of some of the most powerful battleships
afloat. These ships are held in leash, as far as we are
concerned, for the next eight years, by considerations of
diplomacy that will have lost their potency at the end of
that time.
And at that date the British naval forces will probably
be confined more closely than ever round the English
coasts. However willing the mother country might be,
she would not dare to detach her Dreadnoughts for the
protection of Australia, even though we doubled or
trebled our subsidy.
What Chen is to stand between us and the might of the
Power whose navy will have undisputed control of the
Pacific? Frankly, I do. not know, although I can say
without hesitation . that 'it is riot Captain Creswell’s
mosquito crafts. The most drastic and heroic measures
are called for, and I fear we have no statesman in Aus-
tralia prepared to propose them, nor a people sufficiently
alert and enlightened to give ear to them. But what
cries aloud to be done is to increase enormously the
population, and so the number of taxpayers. Im-
migration on a huge scale is the question of
questions for Australia during the next 10 years.
There should be no. renewal of the Braddon clause, so that
the Commonwealth may have ample funds to carry this
out. And defence should at once take the form of com-
pulsory service either on land or at sea. For those who
chose the latter, plenty of old warships could be had for
the asking from the Imperial authorities, on board of
which an admirable training could he obtained. Ten
years hence, we could make a beginning by investing, at
least £10,000,000 in the very latest naval engines of
destruction, and could man them with our own sailors.
This I admit, would be an intolerable burden for a small,
if wealthy, community like this; but we have got,'
sooner or later, to realise the appalling character of our
geographical position, and to make sacrifices commen-
surate with it. We will have to submit cheerfully to
being taxed to the last penny, to resign ourselves to a
universal service as rigid and oppressive as ever ruled in
any military State in the old world, and, when we have
done all these things, we shall escape—if at all—only by
the skin of our teeth.—Yours, ett:., Richard Arthur.
; t ——; '
The Discourteous Caucasian.
About the most ingenious apology so far given
for the Jap’s disinclination to pay what he owes,
and to carry out the terms of contracts he enters
into, was offered at Sydney University the other
night by Professor Jordan, the lecturer imported -
from the Land of the Fried Nigger and the
Potted Man to talk British Imperialism through
his nose. Jordan said that the Monkey was fre-
quently denounced for dishonesty, but he was not
really dishonest. All he wanted was to disown a
contract that didn’t pay him. Jordan ex-
plained that, unlike China, Japan was, until
recently, unacquainted with the contract
system, and, if a mutual agreement didn’t
turn out so profitable for the Monkey as he had
anticipated, he felt that he was entitled to repu-
diate it, while the other party—usually a Euro-
pean, in practice—was expected to be sufficiently
courteous to let things slide. Though Jordan
carefully omitted all reference to the fact that
Jap civil tribunals have a way of invariably up-
holding their countryman against the foreigner
who seeks protection from this peculiar code of
morals, it is possible that the principle of mercan-
tile courtesy pervades Monkey law as well, and
that the foreigners who take action when they
are defrauded through the refusal of Mr. Monkey
to keep his pledged word should deem themselves
lucky that they are not fined for discourtesy,
in addition to being thrown out of court.
In the light of investigation, however, Jordan’s
facts are as erroneous as his conclusions. The
argument that the Jap is unacquainted with the
contract system is ridiculous. Ever since human
beings were able to articulate distinctly, they
have been in the habit of saying to one another
“If you’ll do this. I’ll do that.” The Very spirit
of Bushido, which Jordan grew maudlin over
in the earlier portion of his speech, is based on the
contract system. If the Jap is unable to dis-
tinguish right from wrong, as J ORDAN states, he
is simply an instinctive criminal, and Japan
is the * moral plague spot of the earth. By
Jordan’s showing it stands alone as the single
place where the obligations of one individual to
another—recognised among the savages of Africa
and the maligned aborigines of Australia —are
unknown. In effect, Jordan, in combating the
contention that many Japs are thieves, excused
these persons by saying that all Japs are thieves,
and lack the moral sense to know that they are
committing wrong; that Japan is inhabited by a
nation of criminal lunatics, and that the only way
for the foreigner to prevent himself being robbed
is to refrain from dealing with any Jap
whatsoever. Yet Jordan’s lecture was in-
structive in one aspect. His audience was a
typical University audience, culled from the
fashionable suburbs of Sydney. Much of it was
in evening dress, and it was’just the sort of gather-
ing that might have been expected to exhale a
strong odor of Stinking Fish. Still, it received
Jordan’s pro-Jap remarks with a chilling silence.
When the nasal snuffler paused for the applause
at the end of a telling sentence, the applause was
not forthcoming, and even Willie Kelly, on the
platform, was afraid to put his hands together
for fear he might be applauding alone, like the
pelican giving three cheers in the wilderness.
But, when Jordan, while denying that Japan in-
tended to invade Australia, warned it at the same
time to be prepared for such an invasion, the audi-
ence let loose all the enthusiasm that had been
accumulating during the evening.
+
Universal Postage.
The relation between a very angry Minister and
a very red postage-stamp may not be at once
apparent, yet even such things have a con-
nection which becomes clear after a little study.
A few weeks ago the Hon. G. Fowlds, Maoriland
Minister of Education, expressed himself deeply
shocked at the attitude taken up by Prime
Minister Deakin and his colleague Lyne, at the
recent Imperial Conference. And, among other
things, Fowlds said these
The tone adopted in their speeches at HOME has been
positively distressing. It is absurd that they should
attempt to dictate a policy to the Mother Land. I have
always believed very strongly in maintaining the unity
of the Empire, but if such a policy as that adopted by
the Australian Premiers is to be continued at future Con-
ferences, a party will grow up at HOME which will want
to sever all connection with the colonies, and the Con-
ferences will cease. Sir William Lyne in particular has
shown execrable taste in forcing himself upon the Con-
ference as an uninvited guest. The idea of two men who
can only command a following of seventeen in a House of
seventy-five going HOME to dictate to the British Govern-
ment is simply preposterous. The real practical results
of the Conference will follow from the suggestions made
by Sir Joseph Ward.
These observations were not very interesting in
themselves, but a dozen or more people were
so excited over the remarks of Fowlds that they
cut out great masses of the newspapers in which
his sayings were reported, and each man pushed
his clippings into an envelope, and stuck on it the
little reddish stamp bearing the enormous legend
“ Universal Postage,” and sent the thing to this
office. It still keeps arriving at this office-
worse luck ! Maoriland is, apparently, the
only white man’s country on earth which
has the giddy assurance to print on its stamp
“ universal postage ” —as if that one badly-
printed stamp would carry a letter to Saghalien
or Jupiter. Some little half-bred American
republics do that sort of thing, but neither
Britain, Russia, France nor the United States
puts on quite as much pomp as this, and
the stamps on the famous “Letters from
Hell” didn’t bear so vast a legend. The
Bulletin paid excess postage on most of these
letters, the “Universal” postage stamp not
having anything like the carrying capacity the
Maorilarider thinks it has. Then it opened the
letters and read the tale of Fowlds. Fowlds is,
like many other Maorilanders, a quaint mixture
of enormous cheek and “loyal” humility. He
hasn’t any home of his own ; he still calls a place
about 12,000 miles away “Home,” with a capital
“ II.” Not being able to get “ Home,” he is a
nomad, or tent-dweller, or a person camped under
a sheet of bark in his own mind. He hasn’t yet
realised either that his country has a name of its
own; he lumps it in with a number of other
places as “the colonies.” He is particular
about the silly little titles conferred by the
authorities at the distant place he calls “ Home”
-—the “Sir” before the name of William
Lyne, and the “Sir” before the designation
of Joseph Ward. He is shocked at the
rugged independence of Alfred De.akin and
the aforesaid William Lyne, and is grieved to
the soul because they were not’umble like Mr.
Heep. Yet, amidst his abasement, the vast con-
ceit of the Homeless creature stands out. He is
positive that, at a conference at which were also
present the representatives of the British Govern-
ment, Prime Minister Laurier (Laurier is a
' tall man of his hands) to speak for Canada
and its 5,000,000 people, the representatives
of Newfoundland, Cape Colony, Natal, the
Transvaal (Louis Botha is a man of size), and of
Australia and its 4,000,000 inhabitants—he is sure
that whatever real practical results may arise
from that gathering will be owing to the man
from little Maoriland, a new country with a popu-
lation about equal to that of Glasgow or Liver-
pool. And his yarn reaches here with an insuf-
ficient penny stamp, on which is printed
“ Universal postage ” —as if it would carry a book
packet to Gabriel, the Archangel.
A Shriek from Chatswood.
The proposal to run the N.S.W. State elections
on a programme of bogus Ma State grievances has
roused a few members of the Sydney importing
push to a fury of enthusiasm, and they have
taken up the pen with energy, and dabbed it into
the ink with speed, and written to the papers.
Almost every week some anti-Australian fool, or
liar, or wholly unaccountable person, stands out
conspicuously above the ruck of fools and liars
and unaccountable persons, in the correspondence
columns of the daily press, and makes mirth for
the community. Last week a high place was
held by one “J.E.C.,” who wrote to Sydney
Telegraph, giving his address as Chatswood.
Some extracts from the ravings of “J.E.C.,” of
Chatswood, follow:
So flagrant have been the breaches of faith that unless
we show fight our partners will soon possess all the assets
in the concern, and our share will consist solely of bitter
experience. .. .
New South Wales is undoubtedly in a position to
require the Imperial Parliament, which drafted that
contract set out in the Constitution Act, to see that
every provision is carried into effect. . . .
She [Victoria] knows that the choice of any site south of
Sydney will cut off a big slice of New South Wales territory
from its proper government, and throw it more completely
than ever into the lap of Melbourne ; hence the desire to
make the Federal territory larger than the 900 square
miles contemplated by the Constitution. . . .
They are not slow to appreciate that if the Common-
wealth becomes surety for the debts, it will blandly ask
for the assets, and, if their request is not acceded to, will
exercise its powers to take over the railways. The mag-
nificent railway system of New South Wales, with its
profit-making capabilities, would make an effective bol-
ster for the miserable wheelbarrow tracks of some of our
collectively dominant partners.
This person ought to be about the record parochial
ass jf the week. He actually alleges, in the
vastness of his parish ignorance, that the Austra-
lian Constitution was drafted by the Imperial
Parliament, that it provides definitely for a Fede-
ral territory of 900 square miles, and that it gives
the Commonwealth power to compulsorily take
over the railways. And “ J.E.C.,” of Chatswood,
raves over these figments of his disordered imagi-
nation. In this respect, “J.E.C.,” of Chatswood, is
like most of his tribe, and in another respect he is
like all of them. Despite his shouts about alleged
breaches of the Constitution effected to the pre-
judice of N.S.W., he doesn’t propose putting into
writing the exact details of even one alleged
breach, and then going to the High Court (com-
posed mostly of Judges from N.S.W. and Queens-
land) for redress. Not one of the anti-Federal
shriekists and woe-mongers ever does. Even the
most virulent anti-Federal liar seems to know
that his case couldn’t bear a moment’s honest
judicial inspection.
*
High Court and Privy Council.
The Australian High Court has come to the only
possible conclusion in regard to “the income-tax
cases.” The extraordinary thing is that one of the
Justices should have given a dissenting judgment,
for the only point at issue in this latest phase on the
matter was whether the Australian Court should
deliberately abandon the duty with which it was
entrusted by the Australian Constitution of inter-
preting that deed of national partnership. As
the Chief Justice well pointed out, it would be a
recreant and unworthy thing to do that. The
responsibility was deliberately conferred ; it was
as deliberately accepted ; it can be in no way
vitiated or altered by any mistakes or fancied
mistakes, and it cannot, without cowardice, be
abandoned. There is such a maze of legal issues
around these income-tax cases that the main
points may be with advantage briefly sum-
marised :
The Australian Constitution invests in the Australian
High Court final jurisdiction in all matters of the inter-
pretation of that Constitution.
The Australian Parliament, as a matter of convenience,
vested in the State Courts original jurisdiction in Federal
matters. It is now contended that the decision of a State
Court, even though it be on a Federal Constitutional
matter, can be referred on appeal to the Privy Council,
and that any attempt of the Australian Parliament to
limit that appeal is ultra vires.
The Australian High Court held that Federal officers
should not be liable to pay State income-taxes. The de-
cision followed an American case, the idea in America at
the time being that some especially nasty local J. Car-
ruthers might drive the Federal authority out of a State
by taxing oppressively its officers. In The Bulletin’s
opinion, the High Court’s decision was unwise. It would
be quite time enough to guard against differential State
taxation of Federal officers when it was attempted. The
High Court shot at a bear which isn’t there so far. But
that is beside the question.
An appeal was made to the Privy Council on the point,
by the subterfuge made possible by the Federal Judiciary
Act, and the Privy Council reversed the decision of the
High Court.
A fresh case was taken, and the High Court was asked
to say what it thought of the matter now. It decided
that it was of just the same opinion, and that the Privy
Council should mind its own business.
No other answer could honestly have been given.
Now there is curiosity as to the next step. The
Australian Government, we may announce,
intends to remove the very small bone around
which this great contention has arisen, and pro-
vide through special legislation for the payment
by Federal officers of State income-taxes. . That
will leave the arena clear for the issue whether
Australia intends to interpret its own Constitu-
tion or allow outsiders to interfere —and, as
regards this special matter, ignorant outsiders at
that.
——»
“ Clericus,” re the Employers’ Federation and
the sweating of clerks in Melbourne :
The ingenious methods adopted by the Employers’
Federation to investigate (and disprove) the allegations
with regard to the sweating of clerks, have filled the
quill-pushing profession with admiration. At the presi-
dent’s request, the 'secretary proceeded to test the
accuracy of certain statements which were a “disgrace to
the commercial community," and he displayed remark-
able dispatch and diplomacy in the work. He imme-
diately interviewed the managers of one or two selected
offices, and delicately asked them if they sweated their
clerks. Triumphantly he reported to the council that
they said they didn’t, and that, in several instances, he
had actually been shown the wages books, and had found in
them no facts to support the allegations. Of course, had
any such facts existed, the managers would have been de-
lighted to indicate them and supply the inquirer with
detailed and reliable data to place before his council.
From the result of these exhaustive investigations the
diligent secretary could only conclude that the state-
ments were grossly exaggerated. The Employers’ Federa-
tion, however, has decided to continue the investigations,
and hundreds of struggling clerks are still hoping that
the secretary may inadvertently discover something that
he doesn’t want to hear of. ,
The secretary of the Employers’ Federation stated that
in one institution a staff of 40 clerks are receiving
salaries averaging £175 per annum. Were he to carry his
investigations further he would, no doubt, be surprised to
find many large staffs receiving an average of under £IOO
per year. He would be astonished to discover a staff of
over 40 clerks amongst whom four or five head men re-
ceive £2 10s. or £3 per week, whilst the remaining clerks
collect an average wage of 30s. He would further be
shocked to learn that in another large and prosperous
business, the heads of departments are paid £3 per
week ; the chief ledger-keeper, £2 10s.; the sub-ledger-
keepers £2 ; the cashier (handling hundreds of pounds
daily and after ten vears of faithful service), £2; the
senior clerks, 355. and 375. 6d. ; and the other clerks from
15s to 30s. per week. If Mr. Walpole persevered in his
inquiries he would doubtless be quite dumbfounded to
The Old Unifier.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Carruthers protests,” &c., “Mr. Piiilp objects,”
fee., “ Mr. Evans disagrees,” &c., “Mr. Newton Moore
threatens,” &c.— Any issue of any Daily Paper.
In an age obscure, uncharted,
Came a People grim, stout-hearted,
And they seized the land called Britain with a
firm, emphatic seize;
’Twas an age of grab—of slaughter,
And the Jutes from o’er the water
Smote with large and frequent waddies Britain’s
aborigines !
So the British Combo perished—
And the land that he had cherished
Passed to seven Saxon rulers—angry men in iron
coats.
Swords on bull-hide helmets pounded,
And the Heptarchy resounded
With the strife of warring parties in the Witena-
gemotes.
In that olden, misty Britain,
Where the hapless Celts were smitten,
There were seven Saxon kingdoms occupied by
seven kings.
There were seven Legislatures
Where Ms.P. with insect-natures
Rose and cursed at Federation—rose and howled
untruthful things!
There the strong States cheeked the others,
And an ancient, cheap Carruthers
Gibbered wildly in the distance re the Ma State’s
bitter wrongs ;
While the angry folk of Essex
Heaved the cat of scorn at Wessex,
And the D.T.’s dim ancestors chanted shrill
Secession songs !
But at last there rose a Fighter—
’Twas that Egbert called the Smiter.
He went through Kent and Mercia with his axe
collecting votes;
And the small kings broke asunder,
And the State-Rights mob went under
With their scandalous collection of dim Witena-
gemotes.
On a dusty page ’tis written
How he unified old Britain —
How he filled each shrill Carruthers with a very
solemn fear.
Yea, the boasted English nation
Only found its rightful station
When Egbert served his notice on the old State-
Frights to clear.
Now, in this our newer Britain,
With its history still unwritten,
There are surplus States like England’s when the
Insect-Kings held sway ;
And the Saxon-time Carruthers,
And his uncles and his brothers,
Are alive again and crying for disunion here
to-day.
And we wait for the uprising
Of another man surprising
Like the Unifier mentioned in old Saxon anec-
dotes,
To wreck six Legislatures
Run by men with beetle-natures,
And bury deep for aye our parish Witenagemotes.
VIC.
GRANT HERTHY.


discover that in the ordinary run of mercantile offices
this scale of wages is the standard, not the exception.
If employers are so eager to pay capable men generous
wages, as Mr. Walpole avers, why should so many ad-
vertisements for clerks request applicants to “ state
salary required”? Do commercial men adopt this com-
petitive method as a matter of form, or with a view of
securing a thoroughly competent man at the very lowest
figure offering ?
It was stated by the secretary of the Employers’ Federa-
tion that there was absolutely no evidence to show that
any married men of ability were receiving only 30s. per
week. That was possibly quite true in the carefully
selected places he visited. With sufficiently careful
selection you can avoid finding out almost anything.
The Regular Anti-Federal Falsehood.
One day last week the usual anti-Federal falsehood
appeared in the correspondence column of the
S.M. Herald thus: —
Sir, —As an example of the operations of our circum-
locutory Postal authorities, surely the following will be
difficult to beat. Inverell is 96 miles from Moree, with a
direct line of railway between the two towns, and trains
backwards and forwards every day. Yet, if a letter be
posted in Inverell, addressed to Moree, our postal wise-acres
start it on its journey by sending it 42 miles by coach in
an opposite direction, viz., to Glen Innes. From there it
travels 423 miles by rail to Sydney, and from Sydney it is
sent back 413 miles by train to its destination. The
letter thus travels nearly 900 miles, part of the way by
coach, to reach a town only 96 miles from where it was
posted, whilst at the same time there is direct railway
communication every day between the two places.—l am,
&c., 0. R. Staples.
Inverell, June 1.
And the statement, as usual, is mostly reckless
invention; the anti-Federal person doesn’t seem
to care much what he invents so long as he holds
up the Government and Parliament of Australia,
and through them Australia itself, to the world’s
derision. Here are the facts, which Mr. Staples,
of Inverell, could have found out for himself before
writing, if he had had about him a vestige of what
is sometimes called “British fair play” :
(1) There are about 30 letters a day from Inverell
to Moree.
(2) If a letter is posted at Inverell for Moree, it goes
to Glen Innes by coach, thence by Werris Greek
to Moree. It doesn’t go near Sydney. This knocks 510
miles off the 900-mile lie. The Moree-Inverell line is
only used for mails between Moree and Warialda.
(3) One reason for the circuit, which is nothing like the
circuit Mr. Staples alleges, is that owing to State exac-
tions it would cost £940 per annum to send about 30
letters daily over the 47 miles between Inverell and
Warialda. By the circuitous coach track they are carried
for £2BO a year. With all manner of parochial liars con-
stantly shouting “ Federal extravagance,” the Australian
Government has to economise. The saving helps Carru-
thers’ surplus.
(4) Furthermore, as regards a considerable proportion
of the letters, the circuitous service is the quicker. The
slow, solitary, thrice-a-week train gets into Inverell
late and leaves early, and the average person often
wouldn’t have his reply to the letter from Moree written
in time. And a letter from Inverell to Sydney, if sent by
coach to Glen Innes, can often beat the slow branch
railway by a full day or more. Also the coach, which
starts at 11.30 a.m. from Inverell, often delivers a letter
even at Moree some hours earlier than it would arrive
there going direct by train, seeing that half the
time there is no train that day. It seems to be a
habit of the State railway authorities to consider postal
arrangements as little as possible in fixing train hours.
A slow train that runs only three times a week (at least
that is all the time-table shows) is a mighty poor mail-
carrier, anyway, no matter when it starts. Inverell prob-
ably wants its mail oftener than thrice a week.
The peculiarity of almost every anti-Federal yarn
is that it proves on inspection to be either
a whole lie or three-fourths of a lie. The
anti-Federalist seems to have a code of his
own, which is to the effect that truth, fair-
play, and the general conduct of a gentleman can
be laid aside when the Australian Government is
in question, and that any slander or misrepresenta-
tion is justifiable, provided it brings the ad-
ministration of Australian affairs into con-
tempt. And he never apologises when he
is bowled out—at least not to this paper’s know-
ledge. Apropos, one F. R. Hodges, of Oarrington-
road, Marrickville, who accused Australia
of breach of faith in not fixing the Federal capital
during the life of the first Parliament as “dis-
tinctly provided for in the Constitution ” (these
were his words), doesn’t seem to have either apolo-
gised or explained. Nothing resembling what
he alleged was ever heard of in the Constitution ;
there was consequently no breach of faith, and
the allegation was a baseless slander. But it was
only a baseless slander against Australia, and
to the anti-Federalist it appears rather a merit
than otherwise to falsely slander Australia.
For an unholy tangle many worse things
couldn’t happen than the last Senate election in
S. Australia. Symon and Russell were safe in
the front; only 14 votes separated Vardon and
Crosbie, and Crosbie had the 14. So Vardon
demanded a recount. He got it, and it gave
Vardon 34 votes more than Crosbie. Meantime
Crosbie died; but Blundell, the other Labor
man, who was only about 30 behind, went on
with a petition for the judicial inquiry which the
Commonwealth law provides, instead of the old
farce of inquiry by a Parliamentary Elections
and Qualifications Committee. Justice Barton
turned up to make the inquiry, called for the bal-
lot papers, and found that 9000 of them had been
accidentally burned, and the 9000 included the
votes polled at Houghton, where 55 per cent, of
them had been thrown out as informal because the
local presiding officer-ass had initialled them on
the face. Justice Barton then went fishing, tie
found that, on the papers that hadn’t gone to
blazes, Vardon would only have a majority of
two, but that if he counted the papers that had
been made informal by officer-asses scrawling their
initials in the wrong place, or by not scrawling
them anywhere at all, then Vardon wouldn’t have
a majority at all; so he concluded that Vardon
got his majority, not because a majority wanted
him, but because of the dunderheadedness of the
important local presiding officer-asses. So he
voided the election on the ground of official neglect,
and Crosbie (who is dead) and Vardon (who will
perhaps wish he was dead before the trouble is over)
have got to pay the costs between them. The pre-
siding officer-asses don’t have to pay anything.
And, anyhow, they were the Commonwealth’s
asses—they weren’t Crosbie and Vardon’s team
of mules; and it seems about a fair thing that
every man should pay for the damage done by his
own mule.
N.S.W. Local Premier Carruthers, arguing
against the taking over by the Commonwealth of
the State debts :
The Commonwealth had no better chance in London
than the State. In 1905, when we [that is the State of
N.S.VV.] borrowed two millions, the London Stock Ex-
change “slated” our loan, and made us suffer to the
tune of over 3 per cent., because the Commonwealth had
interfered in regard to the employment of coolies on the
Rand. The stockbrokers openly retaliated on us because
of the policy of the Commonwealth. What a dressing-
down a Commonwealth loan would have got just after
the Six Hatters business, or the Petriana incident, in a
hostile crowd of stockbrokers. It must not be forgotten
that the States have no “ foreign ” policy, and therefore
are not likely to create an unfavorable sentiment; but
the Commonwealth is always irritating the British in-
vestor and capitalist, and will for a long time find that
he can, and will, retaliate if he gets a chance.
Well, admitting that Cohen did “slate”
N.S. W.’s loan because of some alleged iniquity on
the part of the Australian Parliament, Carru-
THERs’ position is something like this :
(1) The States can get better terms from Cohen than
the Commonwealth, because, having no “foreign”
policy, they can’t offend Cohen.
(2) The Commonwealth, having a “ foreign ” policy,
can, and does, offend Cohen; and Cohen “slates” the
States’ loans in retaliation.
(3) Therefore the States can’t get better terms than the
Commonwealth ; and therefore the States should retain
their debts and save the difference which doesn’t exist.
Also, if a Commonwealth loan would have got a
“ dressing down” just after the Six Hatters busi-
ness, &c., who would have been responsible for
the toilet operation? Carruthers knows well
enough that the Six Hatters business, &c., were
perfectly legitimate and harmless acts that
wouldn’t alarm the shyest Cohen, and only the
hard lying of the political gang to which Carru-
thers belongs, and of the press that barracks for
the gang, made them appear anything else. So
when Carruthers says that the people would
have had to pay more to Cohen had they gone
camping on Cohen’s doorstep just after the Six
Hatters business, &c., Carruthers furnishes
another good reason why the people should be
very tired of Carruthers.
“Jimmie Pannikin” aims the clod back again
(the clod has been thrown back and forward so
often that it is just about worn out ):
I hope that “ William Henry Spank ” does not often shed
the garment of affability at this time-o’-year, because it’s
not good to go naked and unashamed. If “W.H.S.”
would oftener don the garment of ability, leaving the
affability to the amiable, he’d be a better critic. At
present he is only a bitter, illogical, untruthful fault-
maker and inventor of defects.
If I were like some States Frights, I might retaliate that
his article describes the Victorian Educational Depart-
mental defects; but has little or no bearing upon the
weak points of the poor, old, robbed Mother State’s
educational administration. Such pars as those he
quotes from the Victorian Teachers’ Gazette have never
appeared in the official Public Instruction Gazette of
N.S.W.
“W.H.S.” next states that the teacher has to prepare
his day’s work—about three hours’ toil, if properly done —
before school. That statement is a gross exaggeration or
an infernal libel. The teacher who finds it necessary to
spend about 15 hours per week preparing his work before
school must surely be a man of merely microscopic
attainments and infinitesimal general reading, not fit to
be allowed to lead little children astray.
Teachers do not talk more “shop” during holidays
than any other professional men. The teacher who
does not try to widen his outlook and add to his stock of
ideas by talking shop at times with his brethren and
sistern, must be a lazy lout incapable of decent intellec-
tual effort—or, worse, a self-satisfied nincompoop.
Men of all callings talk “ shop ” in moderation, if they
are worth their salt. Shop is better than stagnation,
anyhow !
“ W. H. Spank ” writes of “training the kids ungodly
hours for months” to the detriment of his “health and
temper, their school work, and their parents’ cows,” &c.
A teacher who can’t get children ready for a decent school
concert without traiiiing them ungodly hours for months
must know as much about music as a pig does of poetry.
I had 25 years’ experience as a teacher in the Big Scrub
and in the Big City, and I never knew a case where a
teacher had to train pupils ungodly hours for months in
order to give a creditable children’s concert.
“ The average pedagogue isn’t fit to strip in a bath, let
alone a public hall.” Surely this is not true of Victoria!
Even in the outer-back, the teachers, as a rule, are
amongst the most athletic of the community. Physical
culture is doing wonders in N.S.W., because it is carried
on sensibly and systematically. I have known many
fine teachers (male and female) who established libraries
and gardens ; who supplied their schools with pianos,
pictures and physical culture apparatus long - before the
new syllabus, without the nearest approach to crawling.
Some teachers would like to have absolutely everything
done for them. Are we to show no talent for self-help in
reason, no initiative, no tiny self-sacrifice, no love at all
for the little ones whom we teach, no power of organisa-
tion, no ability outside the school? Are young Aus-
tralians to be trained as helpless, hopeless suckers of the
State Milch Oow ? Good old Cow !
♦
“Backstay” writes:
Bulletin pars on the Easby loss and Marine Court In-
quiry should open the public eye to the way some ship-
owners run things.
At the time of the Merchant Service Guild v. Ship-
owners case, in the Federal Arbitration Court, I pointed
out in the Bulletin the necessity of having a proper
chart-room, in spite of Justice O’Connor’s dictum.
Charts are deprived of most of their value without a
proper place to keep them in—a place open to all officers
at all times. When they are in the skipper’s room, an
officer always feels, at best, that he is only on sufferance
when he goes in. Often he doesn’t go when he most
needs, because the skipper is dressing, or yarning with a
passenger. Justice O’Connor, in his judgment, said
most of the new and larger ships had chart-rooms. That
is very wide of the mark. Many that pose as first-class
passenger ships have none—or at best a table on the
bridge that is useless at night or in wet weather, when
charts are most needed. When there is a proper chart-
room, an officer can go and look up the coast and its
dangers, especially on a new' run, at some off-time. He
hasn’t much off-time, but the man who is keen can find
time. He will then keep his watch w'ith more comfort to
himself and safety to the ship.
The Easby case is so bad that I hope it is unusual. Two
pounds (£2) would buy all the charts absolutely necessary
on its regular run. Not much, seeing that it makes for
the safety of several thousand pounds’ worth of property,
Of course, the lives don’t count. They’re only sailors,
who dre paid to take risks.
The Court of Inquiry had a good chance to bring the
ship in as unseaworthy, being without so necessary a part
of its equipment. There would have been much more
justice in that than in dropping on the unfortunate and
overworked skipper as it did. The idea of the ship-
ow'ner running round, with his hat off, after the man with
a certificate, is no w'ild dream of the future. The shortage
is right here with us. A few months ago a man I know
asked for his holiday. It was granted, and he made all
arrangements, but no one could be found to relieve him,
so he had to go another trip. Not long ago, men in deep-
water ships were all trying to get on this coast. Now,
with wages in China higher than ours, and English and
Indian wages going up, they’re not rushing us.
Carruthers defeated S.A. Premier Price’s
sensible motion, at the Brisbane Premiers’ Con-
ference, that local men should be appointed as
State Governors, with a view to saving some of
the £50,000 or so now wasted on pomp and
frill for the imported Ex. Carruthers nearly
dropped dead with horror at the idea of the
Commonwealth having a real live lord from Eng-
land as Governor, while his blessed Ma State
would have to be satisfied with a plain local
person as official Pump. Opener and Stamp
Affixer.
Dear Bulletin, —Father has had a busy week amongst
the shipping’ fraternity. The old man does not take long
to learn a new business. He had not been on board a ship
10 minutes before he knew how to “ splice the main brace ”
an i he can tell “ when the sun lies over the fore-yard
arm ”to a minute. He explained to a meeting of ship-
masters that disease was carried round the world in ships.
We should have no plague if it were not for the ships,
therefore, it is important that the ships should be
thoroughly disinfected. The present system was obsolete.
It is not in use in any hospital or any place where they
know anything about disease. The proper way to dis-
infect a ship is with Tyree Spray and Misicible carbolic.
He also pointed out the advantage of keeping the holds
whitewashed, as it meant a saving of labor in handling
the cargo—the reflected light allowed the men to see what
they were doing, besides which it kept the ship clean and
wholesome looking. The machine could also be used for
enamelling, painting or spraying tar—this would preserve
the iron from rust. Father advises every ship owner or
ship master to write at once to Tyree, 314 George-street,
for full particulars. Yours faithfully, Bill Williams.
N.B.—Or write to the agents— Tyree Automatic Spray
Offices, Block Place, Melbourne ; Tyree Automatic Spray
Offices, 26 Adelaide-street Brisbane; Tyree Automatic
Spray Offices, Waymouth-street, Adelaide.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Spring Chicken.”
Theatre Royal Royal Grand Opera Co.
Palace “ The Colleen Bawn.”
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Mother Goose.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaw Man.”
Theatre Royal “In London Town.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Albani Concert Co.
Athenaeum Hall “Living Ireland.”
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
Perhaps Wagner, too, can be put into plain
Australian. Well, Tannhauser was a fair-class
fighting man, but his real gift was singing. When
he rolled his eyes around and bleated “Queen of
My Heart,” there wasn’t a feminine pulse that
did not flutter. Tannhauser was in the swell
class, and his special fancy was Elizabeth, niece
of the Governor, whom he had met at Govern-
ment House; and who was keen on him.
She used to accompany his songs, and it
looked like a fashionable wedding. But Tann-
hauser had a wild strain in him. There was a
barmaid with yellow hair and 15 different
pneumonia blouses, each one wickeder than
the other, who had taken rather a liking
for his top-note and his fine romantic eye.
The end was that he took the barmaid away to
Heligoland (which is German for Tasmania), and
they had a high old time together until he’d got
tired of her stock of slang and knew all the
15 pneumonia blouses by heart. Tannhauser
dropped her then, and the lady threw some fine
language at him as he left. He came back to his
own crowd, and found that the music fever was so
strong that there was to be a song and recitation
competition at Government House with the hand
of Elizabeth as the prize—infant phenomena
barred from the competition out of consideration
for the prize’s feelings. Everybody had to sing
impromptu on love. Tannhauser chummed up
again with Elizabeth (who hadn’t heard of the
trip to Heligoland), and entered for the competi-
tion. She reckoned he was a dead bird, because his
top-note could beat anything behind pace in the
country, and he was to be a trier. The night of
the competition, one singer started off with a
milk-and-water lyric on love, which was all pappy-
goose and green melons. Tannhauser followed in
a warmer tone, and Elizabeth looked pleased.
But the other competitors were offended, and
there was a musical melee, and they said that
Tannhauser was “ off-side,” and knew more about
love than he ought to. Tannhauser at this fired
up and threw off his singing chest a few real
throbs. The temperature went up to 102° Fahren-
heit. They ragged him as to how he knew so
much, and'he let out all about the Heligoland
trip, and the barmaid with the 15 pneumonia
clothes. Then there was a rumpus. They were
going to disqualify Tannhauser for life, but Eliza-
beth, who didn’t seem nearly as much shocked as
she should have been, interfered, and he was given
another chance. Things got miserable after that.
Tannhauser tried to forget the baimaid and
couldn’t, and Elizabeth died of grief at his gene-
ral unsatisfactoriness; and then he died too, out
of sympathy. That’s the Tannhauser story.
* * * *
As presented at Sydney Royal on Satur-
day, ‘ ‘ Tannhauser ’ ’ marked the sum mit of achieve-
ment of Mr. Musgrove’s Grand Opera Co., so far.
True, one of the principals, Mohwinkel, was
suddenly afflicted by illness, and the important
part of the Landgrave of Thuringia had to be
taken at very short notice by Emil Greder ; but
it is difficult to imagine that this was a handicap,
so fine was Greder s acting and singing. Indeed
he, with Miss Sara Anderson, the chorus, and the
orchestra, supplied the most artistic bit of the
evening—the reception of nobles in the Hall of
the Muses to the music of the famous march.
The lady not alone sings—she acts with grace, and
it was only when these two held the stage together
that the opera had a fully harmonious present-
ment. The first act suggested unfavorable com-
parisons with a previous production in Sydney.
Miss Yallerie Waller was not equal to the music
of Venus. The tenor, Karl Studemuna, has a
sweet resonant voice, which, at times, reaches the
point of perfection ; but he cannot satisfactorily
present “Tannhauser.” His appearance is an
obstacle. It is not merely that he is so well
nourished, but his gait and acting are ungainly.
To close the eyes and listen to his voice is a
pleasure; to watch his acting is a penance.
And these heroic figures of Wagnerian opera
in their carpet-design clothes need to be “in
the picture” in every detail. With the second
act there was a markedly higher level in the
production. Miss Sara Anderson has given
way a little to that remorseless enemy of the
great singer, and has no girlish figure; but
she is a consummate artist in dressing, make-up,
and acting, and her firm, strong fresh voice was
subjected to no handicap by her appearance.
Greder as the Landgrave, as before remarked,
was excellent. Fitz Rupp cut a fine figure as
Wolfram, and the voice of Tannhauser was always
melodious and buoyant. The work of the chorus
and orchestra was generally good, and conductor
Slapoffski was heartily applauded at the conclu-
sion of the overture.
* * * *
The Royal Grand Opera Co. dropped from
Grandeur to Humor when it put forth “The
Barber of Seville ” to shave the serious expression
off Sydney’s face. Whether the jump was up or
down is a matter of individual opinion. Some
persons would as soon part with their seriousness as
with their whiskers. Rossini’s jolly swash-
buckling opera was made in Italy 100 years
ago, and it has not been done in Sydney
for a long, long time. The Germans were
a little heavy over the mercurial music
and acting. Raking over the ashes of mode-
rately ancient musical history, the audience
at “The Barber” came on memories of
Rossini that convinced it that he ripened
in a fit environment for “The Barber.”
His father was town trumpeter and inspector of
slaughter-houses. The combination is stagger-
ingly humorous. His mother was a baker’s
daughter (Ophelia said the same of the owl).
The jolly trumpeter got into gaol for political
reasons, and his wife went forth and
made her crust as a prima donna, while
her child remained with a pork butcher.
The youngster clearly inherited his love of music,
and a musician who taught the harp, and had
also a license to sell liquor (almost as curious a
combination as the trumpeter and meat inspector),
used to give him lessons. The harpist-liquorist
used to fall asleep standing up ; and when little
Rossini had got his fill of fun and music out of his
teacher, he was apprenticed to a smith. But music
will out, and from banging the anvil he took to
banging the piano—such as it was then. Out of
his comic environment the grown Rossini pro-
The Showman’s Moneymaker.— The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Films
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 39.
George-street, wholesalers for Edison Phono-
graphs and products.*
duced “The Barber of Seville.” It has a large
number of thefts embedded in its orchestration,
but if the original owners didn’t complain, no one
in Sydney is going to take up the club in
defence of such very dead composers.
* * * *
Figaro, the Barber, shaves the quality of
Seville, does its hair, and is also surgeon to it and
its beasts. He is a merry scallywag, and when
he finds a patron, Count Almaviva, to be in love
with a certain Rosina, whose acquaintance he
cannot make because her guardian himself intends
to marry her, the humorous vet-razor-wielder
puts him up to tricks to outwit the guardian.
The Count is a drunken soldier, pretending
to be billeted on guardian Bartolo ; then he is a
music master, and gives the fair Rosina lessons in
love. Presently Rosina becomes jealous, and
agrees to marry her old guardian. He brings in
a notary to celebrate the union, but the irre-
pressible Figaro and the Count contrive to be
there, and while Bartolo goes for the police
Rosina and the Count are married ; and all is
happiness and sitting on one chair. Mr. Massimi,
a light, pleasant-voiced tenor, who took the r6le
of Count Almaviva, sang in Italian, but he
swashbuckled and made love like a German.
Excepting a chorus (and the Massimi’s songs) the
opera was done in German. Miss Stoller sang
the highly-flourished, trilled, and ring-tailed love
song, with which she opened the second act, in her
best style—which is somewhat tliin. Fritz Rupp
was the jolly surgeon-vet-barber ; Hans Mohwin-
kel the music master ; Emil Greder the easily-de-
ceived guardian. Next week the management
will probably produce “Faust” and “Rigoletto”
—old-young favorites that the public knows,
and of which it does not weary.
* ■* m •
“ Hansel and Gretel,” the matinee opera,
was seen, for the first time in Sydney, last
Wednesday. It is a jewel —say a fine cat’s-eye—
among the Grand collection of the co. It
was sung in English, but the track of the
German tongue is so well blazed that
the principals might as well have used
their own Deutsch. The opera has some
delightful airs—as, for instance, the cuckoo
duet, and the “ Evening Prayer” of the ragged
children. The witch, who eats little children
after baking them into ginger-bread, the
broom-maker and his wife, their tattered
kiddies Hansel and Gretel, the Hew Fairy,
the Sleep Fairy, and the march down from
Heaven of the shining angel band—all these
make up an attractive series of pictures. The
poor broom-maker’s hut, and the witch’s ginger-
bread villa, and the oven in which she bakes the
babes, are splendidly staged.
** * *
Explosions, murders, and deputations of
pore, wuckin’ miners incidental to “The Coal
King,” at Sydney Palace, will go on till Friday.
Saturday will see the production of Boucicault’s
“Colleen Bawn.” Miss Beatrice Holloway will
be the Eily O’Connor of old Hibernian legend.
«* * *
The Philistine sees a good deal of likeness
between Wagner and “The Spring Chicken.”
There are times when you almost suspect that
Wagner is going to break out into a tune; and m
“The Spring Chicken” there are moments when
you can detect symptoms of a plot. Then, how-
ever, the immature bird seems to recoil from the
thought of anything so serious, and dashes off
after the first worm dropped in its path by any
of a dozen or so Providences —from the French-
man who supplied the original naughtiness which
so shocked St. Stead in London, down (or up) to
G. Lauri, who jokes about things no further away
than Market-street. Considering the number of
Providences who assist, the chicken gets amighty
poor breakfast. Possibly the naughty worm
that horrified Stead was the best worm; but
it was evidently dropped overboard in the
tropics, and only the faintest odor of it now hangs
about the chicken’s plumage. (Not very gay
plumage either, by the way—the Williamson
management certainly cannot be accused of rush-
ing into extravagance lately.) The story, so far
as there is one, relates to a young French advo-
cate who, on the arrival of Spring, cuts off his
beard and, to the pain of his little wife, proceeds
to shake a loose leg. For eight months of the
year the days in his almanac are marked off in
sober family colors; for the other four months
they are all blue. Then, of course, there is the
mother-in-law, who arrives on the unexpected
visit, and who, out of the fulness of her ex-
periences with her own Girdle, who is Lauri,
knows how to treat such Spring friskiness—
with a sleeping draught. But, unfortunately
for the good name of the mother in-law,
she innocently swallows some cf the
“elixir of youth” that Girdle bought when he
bought also the railway ticket to Paris—and then
the curtain falls, with an amorous mother-in-law
pursuing the amazed Girdle, who has had too
many sleeping draughts forced upon him to be
equal to the outburst.
* * * *
In the production at Her Majesty’s, Syd-
ney, most of the old “ Royal Comics ” are in the
places that knew them in Melbourne before
the pantomime came to interrupt them ;
but Olive Morrell having gone out of the
Williamson casts, one or two changes are con-
sequent. Miss Alma Barber takes the imported
lady’s part of the little wife who has eight
months of happiness and four months of Spring;
and Miss Irby Marshall comes over from the
Julius Knight co. to play the giddy princess who
pays with a Spring kiss for the legal advice she
gets in her suit for divorce. Miss Barber’s sweet
little voice and clear enunciation suits So
Gently,” the most “catching” of all the lyrics.
\s in Miss Clara Clifton’s principal number
(Miss Clifton is of necessity the mother-in-law),
the words count for more than the music. Nothing
except the Rotterdam children’s ballet is encored
so often as Miss Barber’s expressive song ; which
gives Miss Barber much walking back and forth,
and she can do almost anything on the stage
better than she can walk. Miss Florence Young,
vigorous as usual, struggles hard to overcome the
banality of the words she has to sing ; Lauri, be-
sides his frivolling, has rather more than usual of
singing and, with Arthur Crane, makes one of
the successes of the piece in a ditty which dis-
cusses the relative merits of being under 40 and
over • Reg Roberts, in the chief tenor part—he is
the lawyer of the two seasons —sings the most
solid numbers of the extravaganza in excellent
voice • and the chorus and the ballet, as usual,
deserve to have each a line to itself very near the
ton of the programme, along with an artistically
made-up Leslie, who is a better Leslie with the
arrival of each new season.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
“The Squatter’s Daughter, at Sydney
Cri., demonstrates with each succeeding week
what a mighty demand there is for the home-
made dramatic article hereabouts. .Just as the
“resting” actor amuses himself going to see
plays, so the way back visitor to Sydney hankers,
while on his holiday, to gaze once more upon the
primary industries he has left behind him. “The
Squatter’s Daughter ” fills that want; and hence
the sheep-shearing and wood-chopping scenes
continue to draw crowds nightly. If William
could only manage to introduce in the drama
some dummy selectors, half-a-dozen poison carts,
and a crate or so of dead rabbits, its run would be as
interminable as a Yankee murder trial when the
defendant has much money.
*# # #
Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society, with
Hazon at the helm, had a brilliant night last
Friday at the second concert of its season. The
Funeral March from Hamlet” was played in
memory of the late musicians, Vollmar and
Delaney. The piece of the programme was the
Beethoven Concerto achievement, known as “The
Emperor,” with Mrs. Carreno at the Steinway.
Excerpts from the “Queen of Sheba” and a
Lisztian Fantasy made rivers of melody. Mr.
Bryce Carter gave a violincello solo. In fact, the
programme was heavily jewelled, and so was the
audience, beginning with Lady Northcote.
#* * *
Genius Marie Hall and her marvellous
fiddle will be seen and heard in Sydney at the
Town Hall next Saturday night. She is acclaimed
as one of the first violinists of the day, and as
there are only four or five first- class fiddlers
scraping around in Europe, little Marie must be a
genius to have arrived in the van with her imple-
ment in her small white hand while still in the
flower of early youth.
** * *
The performing cats make Sydney Tivoli
matinees popular these days, and the Castlereagh-
street house has, more or less, taken the place of
the pantomime as the reward of the boy who
cleans up the yard nicely on Saturday morning.
The only feature of the bill that wasn’t also a
feature last week is her Wonderland Majesty
Gracie Graham, who is back in N.S. Wales from
Victoria and other such-like poor, foreign parts,
where the sun of Carruthers does not shine.
Ernest Fitts is also there, warbling in the old,
vigorous way ; but Fitts is too big and brawny
nowadays to be a feature—he is almost a whole
landscape.
“ Mother Goose ” was due again in Mel-
bourne yesterday, and, if the advertisement told
truly, the Williamsonian pantomime is now flap-
ping its “pinions of popularity” (a managerial
figure of speech) at the Princess’s. The cast of
the Goose characters has been considerably
changed, and the construction of its “ plot ” is said
to be different from that of the Christmas Goose,
which Melbourne remembers. It will put in nine
performances, including two matinees. On the
22nd “The Blue Moon ” is to shine upon a newly-
organised comic opera co.
#* * *
“The Virginian,” in its dramatised form,
is a riddle to most people who have never read the
book ; therefore Melbourne is about to give it up.
The one thing in the Yankee drama which every-
body can understand is the awful wickedness of
Trampas. He makes a crafty attempt to suggest
Robinson Crusoe in his hairy lower garments, but
from the waist upwards he looks like a cross
between the Guy Fawkes of Fifth o’ November
fiction and the Assistant Torturer in “ The Yeo-
man of the Guard.” Also he is not unremindful
of Jonathan Wilde. Although humanity at large
has a sneaking fondness for a whole-souled villain
who frankly declares himself in his countenance
and his costume, common sense demands a brief
explanation of his antipathy to the Hero. The
authors of “The Virginian” forgot to explain
what’s the matter with Trampas. He isn’t pro-
perly “ interdooced,” as the Hero would say. His
murderous intentions are sticking out a mile, but
their origin remains wrapped in mystery. An
incidental reference to “frogs” is equally un-
satisfactory. The “ frogs ” story is puerile in the
novel and vaguely nonsensical in the play. Other
things, notably the clucking hen Emily, are
likewise ridiculous, and so, notwithstanding its
Wild Western atmosphere, “The Virginian”
will mix those babies up for the last time on
Friday. On Saturday a revival of “ The Squaw
Man ” will supply a want at Her Majesty’s.
Melbourne has not exhausted its liking for “ The
Squaw Man,” or certain parts of it, and when the
feathered Chieftain comes back, with his weird
language and his savage grunt, a crowded house
will give him a cordial greeting.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal a revival of “In
London Town” is to oust “The Great Mil-
lionaire ”on Saturday. All citizens desirous of
feeding their loyalty with the spectacle of King
E l ward and his Queen in their golden crowns
are herewith exhorted to seize the present oppor-
tunity to-night or to-morrow. The Royal Pair
defy contradiction. King Edward has a con-
vincing grey beard ; the Queen doesn’t look a day
more than five and twenty. And their haughty
manner of accepting homage indicates that Bland
Holt is paying them an enormous salary.
** * *
At the instance of General Request, who
has a finer ear for music than even his brother-in-
arms, General Desire, two extra recitals were
supplied by Marie Hall at Melbourne
Town Hall, making six in all. It may be
said of the interesting violiniste that her
only fault is the one she will inevit-
ably grow out of. She is a very young
woman, and although her skill commands the re-
verence of respectable old men fiddlers, her method
seems not quite ripe. The performance is charm-
ing, but not emotional in a marked degree. When
her violin is overcome by the pathos of the musical
situation there are tears in its notes —but it weeps
rather too quietly. Its tender passions are ex-
pressed with the same reserve. A Town Hall
performance needs to be a trifle melodramatic.
* * *
Albani, supported by a company of five, is
giving three concerts at the Town Hall this week,
and the last of them happens to-morrow. The city,
knowing what to expect of Albani’s voice, was in
no danger of being disappointed with the ruins of
her renowned warble. On the other hand, a good
deal was expected from the company, and this
notice, written before the first concert, predicts a
pleasing success for the strangers whose names
are not typed large on the programme.
* * m
The long, lean Carlton, who talks and
frivols with a pack of cards, is leaving the Opera
House this week. Granville, the ranting char-
acter impersonator, came to hand at the same
time as Carlton, and he could better have been
spared—but the passing of Granville is un-
accountably delayed. All this time the two
Svengalis on the stage are receiving instructions
from the Svengali whom they can’t hear or see.
He formerly confined his rambles to the ground
floor, but he now goes to the d.c. and amphi-
theatre for orders, which are promptly forwarded
to the stage by magic or tick-tackograph. It
seems that the firm’s capacity fgr executing
orders is limited to the tunes and “ make-ups ”
that are kept in stock. The Svengalis are but
mortal. If they haven’t got what you want, they
give you something different.
m* * *
“ 0.K.” writes :
In Melbourne’s highah musical circles the name of
Town Olerk Clayton is Mud these times, because he
persists in reserving the Town Hall on Saturday nights
for recitals by the municipal organist. The prevailing
soreness on this point has a humorous aspect. Firstly,
there was a mild protest against the re-engagement of
the organist, Dr. Price, from Ireland, on the ground that
the billet could be as capably filled by a local man. Now,
there is an objection raised to the profitable Saturday
night organ recitals, as being unfair to other kinds of im-
ported musicians—instrumentalists or singers—whose
managers want the Town Hall on the same night for
“oof’’-making purposes. From the City Fathers’point
of view, it is better for them to run their own show on
any night if they can make more profit than the £2O they
would get in Hall rental from an oujside speculator
From the general public point of view, it is better to
enrich the municipality, if the profit tends to city im-
provements, than to load the coffers of professional show
men and their foreign “stars.” As for those musical
people who are said to miss the chance of bearing fine
artists because they cannot hear them on the one night
when Price plays the organ—their wail seems hardly
worth considering. Other chances are open to them,
anyhow. And if the musical education of the “ masses ”
is a thing to be muchly desired, nobody can deny that
the masses derive more benefit from sixpenny organ re-
citals, which they do attend in pretty large numbers,
than they would obtain from comparatively expensive
performances of sonatas and concertos, whereat they are
not present. Seeing that the Town Clerk’s policy happens
to be socialistic as well as business-like, it is highly com-
mendable, and if it should result in the building of a
special Melbourne concert hall for special entertainments,
the public all round will be the gainers. For in that case
the supporters of expensive entertainments will get
decent accommodation in a suitable building, whilst the
Town Hall will become a recognised shilling show place,
comfortable only when it is well filled. Under present
conditions, it is mostly a cheerless building, where musi-
cal enthusiasts catch cold.
** # #
It is hardly possible to make a more complete
change than the Tittell Brune Co. has made at
Adelaide Royal. On Friday evening it was pre-
senting the magnificently-staged “ Parsifal, ” with
its vague chronology, its high-flown sentiment,
and its triumph of Virtue after a long, careful
look at what Vice could offer in the meantime.
On Saturday it shed its armor and cloaks,
beards and long locks, and declined on to the
gifted Hebrew’s “Merely Mary Ann,” which
is as modern as it can be made. This
writer sees no reason to alter a previous
conviction that Miss Brune is a better
comedian than tragedian. The booking at the
Royal has been enormous, but Birthday Cup
week has kept a number of other attractions
going, and well patronised too. Ada Ward
faded quietly off the local horizon. Adelaide
may be a Holy City, but its piety is very
practical, and it is little given to losing its head
over sensational preachers and preacheresses.
RESULT OF THE BRISBANE CON-
FERENCE.
THE KID: “ Blowal if I can see it.”
It seems to have been considered by Pall
Mali’s naicest that Premier Deakin has the
manners of a Duke, or rather those that a Duke
ought to possess. And, inasmuch as manners
reflect the man, the wise know that just the
proper nip of D.C.L. whisky bestows that cour-
teous bearing which denotes the polished mind.
D.C.L. is the true spirit of mannahs*
“ The Oof Bird ” is a term that once
Came into vogue because
Its meaning tempted every dunce
To guess at what it was.
Fools nursed the term in former years
Ere letting it run loose ;
“ The Oof Bird ” nowadays appears
As good old “ Mother Goose.”
The creature lays big golden eggs
Of pantomimic breed ;
It travels on a lot of legs,
Just like a centipede.
The house wherein its songs are heard
Is filled from floor to roof,
And whilst the public cheer the Bird
The showman bags the Oof.
AT POVERTY POINT.
MISS MARIE HALL , VIOLINIST.
Photo, by The Falk Studios, Sydney.
“ Peacock ”: Went into a high-class restaurant t’other
day. I wanted only food and rest. In the middle of a
trout, my repose was disturbed by a buzz of excitement
all over the room, and looking up I saw three red feathers
coming round the corner. It was Tittell Brune. and
train. She gave a ravishing bow to a young fellow in the
corner. He immediately spilt his coffee and puffed
violently at the lighted end of his cigarette. Things
hummed. A bevy of girls at the next table blushed and
beamed. Fancy sitting next to Miss Brune ! The pro-
prietor rubbed his hands gleefully, but the waiter mopped
a perspiring brow. The responsibility was too much for
him. Tittell Boom was gracious to her train. Her face
was a study of emotions, and her arms floated here and
there expressively. Mummer Kingston put in some good
work, sidestepping Tittell’s left hand. He appeared to
be used to it. Then the band played a Hungarian waltz,
which brought me to the conclusion that high-class
restaurants are mainly intended for stage people to act in
Some two months ago the London music-hall world was
deeply moved. An American Trust had been formed to
control variety business in the States, and unheard-
of salaries were offered. Many- performers accepted
engagements which promised in a short time to
place them on a pinnacle of wealth. Harry Lauder,
a Scotch comedian very popular in London, was
engaged at a salary three times as great as he could have
hoped for in the United Kingdom. Everything was lovely
until there arose an iconoclast, a well-known New York
theatrical agent, who cabled to London, and his cable was
published: “Keep my firm out of the newspapers. You
know nothing. All salaries mentioned are smoke. People
dreaming fairy tales and tremendous salaries may wake up
soon with tremendous headaches, and those who have
accepted extraordinary salaries are not over their troubles
yet.” Somehow, the gentleman who wanted his name
kept out of the papers got into the papers, name and all, so
there is likely to be an exciting time ahead of him. He
doesn’t say whereabouts lies the hole in the magnificent
Yankee agreements, but some worried comedians would
much like to know.
“ Adjong ” : I’m not puzzled as to whether an actress can
be a Christian ; what I am puzzled about is how the lady
who married Hugh Fisher, nearly 30 years ago, can still
be the Miss Ada Ward she says she is. I know an actress
can’t be a married woman. Can’t an evangelist either ?
“D.”: Can any one tell me why, under the stress of
acute emotion, our only Tittell loses all her whilom
gracefulness? In both the tearful “farewells” which I
have seen her make of late, she developed a curious
action like unto nothing on earth so much as the awk-
ward forelock-pulling bowings of the honest old mariner
of melodrama —he of the simple faith and the great
bullock-like Heart. Why should Tittell farewell in this
fashion? Artistically speaking, her antics constitute a
misdemeanor within the signification of the Act.
Manager Anderson is already sole lessee of Perth’s only
two theatres —Her Majesty’s and the Royal—and will add
the scalp of His Majesty’s, Fremantle, to his belt, with a
long lease, in a few weeks. And Anderson’s star hasn’t,
apparently, reached its zenith even yet.
Stated as a fact that Eugenie Duggan will take an
innings as a “star” actress in “Camille,” and other
Bernhardtian plays, at Melbourne Princess’s next year—
six plays in six weeks, starting from Easter Saturday.
The thing is to be done “ regardless of expense ” with a
picked Australian company. Which sounds more probable
than a previous story, to the effect that Miss Duggan was
going to burst forth as a tragedienne in London.
Marie Narelle and co. make ready for a'joyous Indian
jaunt. The blue-eyed tenor Fentress, whose platform
simper cruelly belies him, is chummy with a maharajah
of immense tonnage, and the potentate has invited them
to come and kill tigers and time, and have a period of
great joy in his warm-colored country. The concerts are
to be merely incidental.
“Blister”: The most inartistic thing I have seen this
year is the “ Rescue of Varischetti ” act by one Howard
Edie, a long-haired mummer with a genius for advertise-
ment. I call it absurd to make Varischetti rage
like a madman underground, even in the dream
scene, where allowances can be made for the bellow-
dramatic instinct. At present the “ Rescue ” is a one-
man play, but Edie threatens to build a drama on a
grand scale round it, and storm Australia with the dread-
ful outfit.
The funniest thing on at Melbourne Opera House is the
impersonation of Bill Squires by the Svengali, a youthful
German who reproduces great men of the present age and
the near past at the request of the audience, said request
being conveyed to him by the alleged will power of an
elderly Teuton. The impersonator is slim and pale, and
has the general appearance of a curate who lives on
lentils and celery soup. Consequently his William
Squires is a cross between W. H. Judkins and a pre-
Raphaelite female. It is the wildest absurdity, and
resembles anything else on earth, from a picket fence to
the landing of William of Orange, but never carries the
faintest hint of William Squires.
A performer at a little Melbourne variety hall brands
himself “ the melancholy comedian.” It is about time
some of the others owned up to it.
“ Hassan ”: I saw the Druids’ procession. It was
bosker. First there came a cart drawn by several dis-
gusted-looking horses, with ribbons fluttering into their
eyes and tickling' their ears. In the cart were
foolish persons in nightdresses and long property
whiskers. I asked the man next to me whether it was an
advertisement for hair-tonic, and he said “ No, these
are Druids.” Then came a lot of harmless lunatics with
red-and-white w'aistcoats, worn outside their coats, and
a couple of policemen seeing they didn’t escape. Next
came drags full of the Druids’ missuses and tarts and
daughters—some of them not bad-looking, which is
more than can be said for their pas. More Druids fol-
lowed, holding up their nighties from the mud, and
dodging the trams, and cussing the rude little boys who
poked borak at them. More female perks of Druidism—
I think I’ll join the religion if the whiskers are not
obligatory. The quaintest item was a large cardboard
cromlech, which wobbled so that two Druids in vermi-
lion beards had to hold it on the cart. I expected to see
Boadicea coming along any minute, bleeding from the
Roman rods, but she evidently hadn’t recovered suffici-
ently to take part in the tomfoolery. It’s a strange
desire, that of dressing one’s self in a property beard and
a nightdress, or a scarlet waistcoat worn outside one’s
coat.
“ J.E.M.”: There is a glaring mistake in Tittell Brune's
version of “La Tosca.” In the torture scene Miss Brune
wears a gold and blue evening dress. The act concludes
with Tosca and her lover both fainting 1 . Tosca walks
over to the only mat in the room, and faints exactly in
the middle of it, as if she were a geometrical problem.
Scarpia has them taken to the castle of St. Angelo, which
is shown in the next scene. It is only supposed to be an
hour or two later, and Tosca has not even had time to
find out where she is. She didn’t faint with a carpet-
bag full of clothes in her hand. There is no mention of
Scarpia getting her measured for new clothes while she
was insensible, nor does it appear that he sent his minions
to her boarding-house for a heap of duds. And in any case
the girl is too distracted to worry about getting into a
new skirt and blouse. Yet, when Tittell appears, as the
anguished captive of St. Angelo, she has changed her
clothes and jewellery, and wears the floppy white dress
which convention demands at the tail-end and caudal ap-
pendage of a tragedy. How much more effective would have
been the glittering ball dress contrasting with the haggard
faceand dishevelled hair, and theroseson the breast droop-
ing and faded ! Miss Brune invariably wears the wrong
clothes, and gets tangled up in them every time she
moves. She always gives me the idea that she went
around in a state of nature before she went on the stage,
and lived in a tree, like the hero of Bill Liverpool’s book,
“ Before Adam,” which, by the way, is a darn poor book,
despite the monkey footprints on the cover.
San Francisco Argonaut relates that when the Ameri-
can actor, Richard Mansfield, was going to the theatre
one night, a small bull-terrier ran in front of his automo-
bile and was demolished. The machine was stopped, and
an irate old gentleman appeared, to whom Mansfield
made his apologies. “Your dog ran in front of the car
so suddenly that it was impossible to avoid the accident,”
he said. “ That dog,” said the angry ancient, “ was
worth 500dols.” “Well,” replied the actor, “the dog
evidently didn’t know it.”
Singing comedian Alexander, Torrey’s associate, is not
likely to visit Australia again. He has become a bloated
capitalist of very great bloat. The Alexanders went
from Sydney to San Francisco, and there awaited Mrs.
Alexander’s mother, widow of Richard Cadbury, the rich
cocoa man, of Birmingham. Mrs. Cadbury had been on
a visit to another daughter, wife of a missionary in China.
She was an aged lady, and she fell down the gangway of
the steamer on the return voyage, and died of her in-
juries. A great share in the cocoa business thus devolves
upon Mrs. Alexander, and doubtless her husband, the
one-time singing missioner, will find himself under the
painful necessity of remaining in Birmingham to super-
vise it, and gather in the profits.
A visiting American writer tells the Yankee papers that
Australia wants only the coarsest kind of theatrical stingo,
and suggests : —“ There is a lot of money down here for
some enterprising American manager who will bring a
repertoire of the worst plays to be found in America with
a company selected from the Rialto, composed of third-
rate actors. Not many months ago Dion Boucicault and
Lionel Brough brought from England a first-class com-
pany of London players, and a repertoire consisting of
such high-grade plays as ‘ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray,’
‘ Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace,’ ‘ The Profligate,’ and other
Pinero successes, and, during their eight weeks’ stay,
they did not take enough to pay for the rental of the
theatre. Society plays are not wanted here, because
there is practically no society in Australia.” The gentle-
man is probably as much “ out ” in his forecast as in his
history ; so that American manager had better not bring
his third-raters. Yankee first-raters even don’t always
shine here.
“ Lil.” : Albani has lately declared that she did not
take her name from Albany (New York), where her sing-
ing first attracted notice. Her Italian tutor, looking
round for something in his own lingo to replace her
original name, Lajeunesse, picked on Albani by mere
chance. When the Albany newspapers accepted the
christening as a compliment to their town, the notion
seemed too good an advertisement to be contradicted.
So this base confidence trick was played on the gentle
folk of Albany for many years. The lady’s peculiar matri-
monial “ monniker,” Gye, is officially ordered to be pro-
nounced “Ji.” Anyone speaking it as if it were spelled
Gay Eye is liable to be treated with the utmost rigor at
the box-office.
The ordinary English actor nowadays is a person who
lacks the equipment or the audacity (which is a necessary
item of even the best equipment) to carry him through a
successful music-hall “ turn.” The halls pay better
salaries than the theatres pay, and the work of a “turn”
is much easier, and the job more stiddy than that of a
part actor in plays. Consider the sketch artists imported
by Rickards. How short a time they are on the stage,
how long a time they stick at the same songs, dances, or
what not—especially what not—and how handsomely
they are paid in comparison with the stock actor! But
the variety person has to go on and face the raging public
lion single-handed; whereas even the star, standing in
the limelight, has somebody on the stage with him to
prop up his loneliness, and restrain the sinking sensation
that might otherwise make him imagine his stomach was
going swiftly down a lift on its lonesome.
“ Gebo ” : I was at Rickards’, in Melbourne, the other
Saturday night (up in the gallery), and they were showing
a series of illustrated pictures. One was of Phil May ;it
represented him as sitting back in a folding chair. When
it was shown a general shout of applause happened, and
one of the crowd greatly enlightened those around, in-
cluding myself. He said that May was “ the lazy beggar
who stayed in bed for 29 years, and did no work.” I
began questioning. “Yes, Phil May, I remember the
name well,” said the wild galleryite. “Never stirred out
of his bed for 29 years ! ” “ How did he live ? ” I asked.
“ Oh, I don’t know! He had money or something, and
made his mother keep him ! The police had to come and
pull him out of bed ! I don’t know why they’re shoving
him on here ! ” I have heard a good many reminiscences
of Phil May, and had an idea I knew his pedigree, but I’d
never heard that before. It struck me as humorous.
Sara Bernhardt is evidently getting thinner in the
skin, else she wouldn’t worry about a little thing like an
attack on the originality of her pen-work. Seventeen
years ago Archibald Forbes wrote venomously about her
as a drunken profligate, who was fast breaking up (the
S. Aus. Advertiser, among others, printed this par-
ticular yarn of Forbes’s) and all Sara did was to talk back
for half-an-hour —and live and work for 17 years to scoff
at the story.
PAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soothing sounds that throb and thrill
Through the murk of my distress ;
Gall and wormwood, grief and ill,
Where is now thy bitterness ?
Rancor, railing, loud disputes,
Venomed smiles satirical,
Fade before the rippling lute’s
Laughing notes and lyrical.
Chords triumphant thunder out,
Pealing, rhythmic, belled, sublime ;
Warrior angels seem to shout,
Marching in the van of Time
Like the rage the billow brings
Roaring from a stormy sea,
Like the rush of mighty wings
Rolls the Jovian melody.
Wailing voices, tense and thin,
Full of woe and full of fears,
Quivering, grieving violin,
Sobbing out its soul in tears ;
Moaning to the heavens above,
Mourning to the aeons grey,
Weeping for the death of love ;
Who shall wipe our tears away?
Happy, careless, dancing notes,
Simple music free and wild,
Glad and pure it soars and floats
Like the laughter of a child ;
As the flowers that deck our path,
All is innocence and truth ;
No o’ershadowed aftermath
Waits for sunny halcyon youth.
Mystic music witch-like broods—
See green branches dip and sway ;
Fawns and Satyrs in the woods
Make their pagan holiday ;
Classic orgies wake the glades,
Pulsing warm to Love’s refrain ;
Wizard Pan, from out the shade,
Pipes, and all is changed again.
MAORILAND.
FRANK HUDSON.


jjeafness, Head poises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at. your
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention from your
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statements :
Ihe Well-Known and Highlt-Esteemf.d Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried; all complications
have entirely disappeared.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W .
Here’s a Camera for you.
fdg
The No. 3 Centura
For Daylight Roll Films or Glass Plates. Size of
Pictures, 4J x 3J (J-plate).
PRICE- - - 925. 6d.
THIS Camera is an ideal one for Travellers, Tourists or
Ladies. It folds up compactly, and can be carried in
the overcoat pocket. It has every improvement, and
takes clear, sharp photos. The Lens is a BECK Rapid Sym-
metrical, and exceedingly rapid. Between-lens Shutter for
Time and Instant’s work, and special panel for dark slides.
Rack and Pinion movement for focussing, Spirit Level, View
Finder, Tripod Sockets, etc., etc. We strongly recommend
this model Camera for all-round work. The postage in
N.S.W. is Is. 3d. Interstate and N.Z., 2s. 2d.
EXTRAS.—Focussing Screen, 2s. 6d. ; Dark Slides,
2s. 6d. each. Leather Case, if required, Bs. 6d.
Everything necessary in PHOTO. SUPPLIES stocked by
tis. Plates, Papers, Chemicals, Cameras of all Best Styles;
Cinematographs, Lanterns, Cinematograph Films (new
subjects, etc., etc.
Harrington & Co., Ltd,,
Head Warehouse: 386 GEORGE STREET, SYDN EY
Branch: 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
IN THE NEAR FUTURE.
MRS. DE STYLE ( disgustedly): “ What do you think , dear 2 Mrs. Von Hopper has actually
got one of those babies.”
MRS. DE FASHIONNE: “ Heavens above! I’d almost forgotten them. What on earth will she
do with it?”
MRS. DE STYLE: “ She says she doesn’t know. It’s horribly awkward, you know. I’m going
to take pity on her, and ask her to let me have it for Fido to play with.”
“T.S.” : Apropos of Ada Ward and her
famous query, has anybody ever raised the ques-
tion “Can the Devil be a Christian?” When I
write my famous essay on “How to be Happy
though Buried ” I shall deal with this matter as a
side issue.
The other morning seven Melbourne de-
tectives rushed down to the Mint in a hurry, to
clear up a mystery and arrest some one. The
Mint allows gold dealers to deposit their boodle
at all hours, but after the establishment is closed
for the day they plant it at their own risk in a
safe in the guard’s lodge at the gate, where a con-
stable is always on duty. At 10 p.m. on June
3rd, Pascoe, a Bendigo gold-buyetj stepped in
with three bars of gold, worth some £l7OO. These
were put in the safe by constable Barclay, who
locked the apparatus, stowed the key in his Vest
pocket, and shortly afterwards went to bed.
During the night the lodge office was occu-
pied by a constable, who only left it twice,
for 10 minutes each time, in order to go
round the Mint with a visiting sergeant, and
he locked the door When lie went out.
Between the lodge and the street is a high
raiimy and an iron gate, also locked, Barclay
came on duty next morning at nine, took
the key from his pocket, and opened the safe—
and got a shock, from which he hasn’t recovered
yet. The gold was gone ! The safe was just as he
had left it; there were no marks on either door or
window ; and, though the window was unlocked
and unguarded, it is Bft. above the footpath, with
a sloping sill, and if a thief entered that way he left
no trace of his presence. There are, so it is alleged,
only two keys of the safe in existence —one being
in Barclay’s care, the other in the strong room in-
side the Mint. The latter was found in its usual
place in the morning. Barclay’s key remained in
his pocket all night, unless a burglar got into his
bedroom, took it out and opened the safe, and
then carefully put the key back again—all during
the ten minutes the constable was away going his
rounds. The burglar who would be ass enough to
put the key back again after having got the gold
is so impossible as to be not worth looking for. So
the only feasible solution to the problem is that
either the gold wasn’t put into the safe, or
somebody had a duplicate key ; yet Chubb’s local
representative defies any locksmith to make a
duplicate without having one of the two proper
keys as a pattern. Altogether, it is a large size
in mysteries.
* * * *
A feature of the search for the lost bars of
gold, stolen from the guard’s lodge at the gate of
the Melbourne Mint, was the sifting of a heap of
loose earth, lying in the Mint yard. Some de-
tective genius, who had been studying Gaboriau,
suggested that the most improbable place for a
plant was the most likely, so laborers carefully
turned over the mound while a couple of smart
’tecs stood alongside in the attitude of Ajax
expecting the limelight. But the claim proved a
duffer.
» * * *
An ex-miner writes :
The gold stolen from Melbourne Mint would weigh about
a quarter of a cwt., and might have been carried in a stout
hand-bag. The police make a song of the idea that if the
thief is not acquainted with a big dealer, he will experi-
ence difficulty in disposing of the gold, which is sheer
nonsense. It would probably be worth ihe robber’s while
to take a little trip abroad with his £l7OO in bullion.
In any case, gold is easily broken up, and if the
cool burglar is content to lie low for a time, it
will soon be quite safe for him to figure at country
banks as a lucky digger with a parcel of small slugs for
sale. Meanwhile, should he go short, a few ounces filed
off the bar with a rasp and subjected to an hour’s sweat-
ing in a chamois bag with a handful of sand, would pass
for gold-dust with experienced dealers, and provoke no
suspicion. If the D’s get their man through his efforts to
dispose of his lump of raw gold, he must be a greater fool
than his success in annexing the bullion would lead one
to suppose.
» * * »
“S.” writes:
Few Australian gold-stealings have been quite as neat
as this most recent robbery from the Melbourne Mint.
It is as clean as a new pin, and leaves no garbage, no
scraps of material, thumb prints, grease stains, jemmy
marks, no impressions of hob-nailed boots—nothing for
Sherlock Holmes to seize.upon. But it may be assumed
that some person possessed a key of the door and a key
of the safe ; and that he walked in swiftly, took the gold
hurriedly, and walked out again rapidly. This shock-
ingly commonplace explanation is supported by a tradi-
tion to the effect that certain keys went missing years
ago. When the keys were lost somebody thought it
would be advisable to change the locks, but apparently
the good intention was forgotten, and went to
help a paving contract in Gehenna. Evidently the
man who found the keys has an excellent memory.
But on top of this comes the mystery of the
murder of diamond merchant Bauer, killed in his
office in Modern Chambers, in busy Collins-street,
at a time when the locality was humming like a
blue-bottle, and the deed was done without even
the man in the next office having the faintest idea that
skull-fracture and robbery were going on just at the
other side of the partition. And, again, there seems to
be no trace, no boot-mark, no finger-print, and nobody
remembers that he saw anyone in particular go in or
anyone unusual go out. Even if all the keys of the Mint
were lost and the front door as well, that throws no
light on the deadness of Bauer, the Collins-street diamond
merchant. He doesn’t seem to have been struck with
a key.
The Sydney D.T. missed a great oppor-
tunity over the murder of the diamond merchant
Bauer, in Melbourne. The headings were com-
monplace and distinctly non-committal, whereas,
to harmonise with the rest of the journal they
should have been something like this :
Shocking Melbourne Tragedy.
Sydney Man the Victim.
Murdered by Victorians.
It is really time for Williemotor Kelly and W. E.
Johnson and “ Patriot ” to write to the D.T. and
tell it to “ stand firm.”
ANOTHER INJUSTICE TO IRRLAND.-(AT THE JEWISH FANCY DRESS BALL.)
MR. BEN JOBSEPHS: "’Me! O I'm Ponny Brinth Charlie, av courth. Vat arc you!"
REBECCA THE BEAUTIFUL : "Vy, I'm tear old Ireland. Can't yer see I'm warin’ the harp
of Aaron?”
Modern Chambers, Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, the scene of the Blandersonian murder of
diamond merchant Bauer, is one of the landmarks
of the boom. A huge slab-sided stone structure
of the wedding cake order, seven storeys high, it
stands opposite the Equitable office, and right
in the centre of commercial life. The building
was erected in’BB for the Modern Permanent Build-
ing Society, but when that concern’s greatness de-
parted it passed to other owners, and the original
proprietors hang out in a chastened spirit in more
modest quarters further up the street. For
many years the upper floors of the Modern
Chambers have consisted mostly of empty
offices, and only one of the two lifts runs
nowadays; but there was a time when pos-
session of offices in the Modern was enough
to get a man an overdraft anywhere.
Among notable Melbourneites who had their
headquarters there were Billy Bruce, solicitor and
celebrated Australian Eleven batsman ; Hughie
McLean, captain of the Geelong football team at
the zenith of its success ; and Runting and
Wright, a land-dealing partnership that was
reputed to hold millions in the late ’eighties.
When the boom collapsed the money owed by
Modern tenants who compromised with their
creditors would have filled three pantechnicons.
One of tho quaintest incidents of Yankee
Professor Jordan’s lectures occurred when
the Prof, was holding forth at Sydney
University. He was extolling the virtues of the
Jap, and stating how superior the Monkey is to
the poor, white European, and generally throwing
slush at his own race: The lecture was well under
way when a small Japanese male person, accom-
panied by a white woman, came down the aisle
and took a front seat. Then, while Jordan was
in the middle of another wild whoop about the
wonderful courtesy of the Japanese character, the
small, brown man spied a vacant seat on the
platform, and strolled across to it. There
he remained for the rest of the evening,
leaving the white woman to look after herself in
the body of the hall. Even the push has better
manners than that.
* * ♦ *
A strange old fiction was knocked out in a
casual way by the Westralian Parliament a while
ago, and the Courts have only just discovered it.
In cases of seduction, it has always been the angry
parent who has come along with demands for
large sums, nominally on account of “ loss of ser-
vices.” The State Parliament knocked that out,
so that the lady herself may now make the de-
mand, and frankly claim damages in the bill for
the injury to her innocence. One father, who
didn’t know what Parliament had been doing,
went to the Supreme Court in Perth the other
day with the usual claim ; but the Judge decided
that all that a father could claim for (except out-
of pocket expenses) was for shock to his feelings ;
and the imported Judge Rooth evidently reckoned
that a father in the beastly colonies shouldn’t be
shocked much by a little thing like that. Any-
way, he fixed the solatium at 40s.
The evidence given before the N.S.W.
Arbitration Court, regarding the cost of living in
Svdney, indicates that there should be an award
t..v boarding-house keepers. In many instances,
it is manifest that the average boarding-house
keeper, through inability to properly dissect the
items of her expenditure, actually loses money
over her boarder. It is impossible that the des-
perate woman who replied to the advt., offering
lodging and three meals daily within walking dis-
tance of the city for 6s. 6d. a week, could have
made a correct estimate of cost. She must
simply have cut down her price, day after day,
in desperation, until she reached the bedrock
of 6s. 6d. The secretary of the Y.W.C.A.
dispelled all doubts about the question when
she stated that in her institution—not a
profit-making concern, be it remembered, but
a heavily-endowed philanthropic one—it costs
14s. weekly to maintain each inmate. Many of
the cheaper boarding-houses are mere death-traps,
in which no medical man would permit a patient
to live for five minutes. Ventilation is unknown,
so is sanitation, and cleanliness is unheard of. The
boarders are thrust into something like the space
that the nigger-run mail boats provide for their
Lascars, and the bedrooms are little more than
stud-farms for consumption germs. The lot of
the boarding-housekeeper is one of the hardest in
the community, and, like most people in despe-
rate straits, she has to make her living as best
she can. Very often, her “best” means the sacrifice
of the lives of others, the dissemination of disease,
the non-payment, as far as possible, of the butcher
and baker, an almost lifelong scrimmage with the
time-payment furniture man, and then failure, the
bailiff, and disappearance. And where the old,
faded boarding-housekeepers go when they dis-
appear, Heaven only knows.
REV. CAMPBELL, OF THE CITY TEMPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There rose a man in London town,
Among the modern preachers
(Men used to call them teachers),
Who started running Satan down.
Said he : “ I’ll bet you half-a-crown
That I’ll destroy his features.
I’ll analyse his sulphur pits,
Knock horns and tail to little bits,
Crack Hades through the middle ;
And, to confound my brethren wise,
Will rend the ancient, worn disguise,
And prove the Father of all Lies
Himself a tarradiddle.”
And so he clove the cloven feet,
Revealed the tale a fiction
In cultured modern diction.
He sho.ved the lurid fires a cheat,
That seem to glow in Brimstone-street,
Down vales of malediction ;
And Hell’s an old wife’s vulgar yarn—
The Bogey of the Haunted Barn—
Made for the simple urchin
When men were only babes and fools,
The church’s prey, the clergy’s tools—
The naughty boys on dunce’s stools,
Who needed threat of birchin’.
Thus said this modern clergyman,
This Reverend Mr. Campbell,
With more or less preamble ;
And instantly a shudder ran
Through all the godly cleric clan
That one of them should damn hell.
Through all the din was heard above,
“ How dare he say the God of Love
Forgot to make the devil ?
How dare he doubt that Adam fell ?
How dare the bliss of saints dispel
By robbing them of sight of Hell,
Its scenes of pain and revel ? ”
And so this man of London church,
A-shouting from the steeple,
Appealed unto the people
From his imagined lofty perch :
“ I will destroy the ancient birch
And ostracise the Bogey,
The Spectre of the Mouldering Barn.”
The people merely murmured “ Garn,
You most amusing fogey ;
You Campbell antiquated !
We burnt that mediaeval switch
(How sadly you’re belated)
Tied to the last surviving witch,
Beside a nineteenth century ditch
(Oh, Reverend Mr. Campbell,
How sadly slow you amble),
And there the Devil dangled
Upon the gibbet strangled,
And the deed of execution
Was well and truly done
(Oh slow and laggard one)
By Hangman Evolution.”
VIC.
ALPENSTOCK.
CALVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Sydney physiologist asserts that big calves are a sign
of intellectuality, and nations with stout legs are the
most advanced.
The bishop’s calves are neat and slim,
The footman more than rivals him.
The lady who’s a Tory Leaguer
Has understandings rather meagre
Compared with Flossies of our time
Who caper in the pantomime.
Bent’s calves the connoisseur admires,
And eke the solid legs of Squires,
While Jud’s supports are hardly lawful,
And Northcote’s calves are something awful.
And in our Parliaments there be
A lot who’re brainy—to the knee.
We’re puzzled, but at least we know
Why girls their silken stockings show
At crossings ; ’tis that all may see
Their intellectuali-TEE.
vie.
S.


TheJoneHand
The July Lone Hand is now going through the
press, and, fulfilling promises, it will surpass the
two previous numbers. The magazine is now
“getting into its stride.” Contributors and
artists are recognising what is required of them,
and the result is a steady progress in its appear-
ance and general interest.
Opening with “A Bush Symphony,” a prose
poem of the Australian forest, by Frank Myers,
The Lone Hand for July follows with a humorous
set of verses by the late Victor Daley, illustrated
by “ Hop,” and continues with a robust story of
sentiment, “Riches of Exile,” by Howard Ash-
ton, with pictures by Norman Lindsay. These
three items represent well the eloquence, the
humor, the romance and the art of Australia.
A larger instalment of J. F. Archibald’s memoirs
is given in this July number, including some most
interesting yarns of early-day journalism in
Australia.
As a frontispiece, a fine portrait by Norman
Carter, in red chalk, of J. C. Watson will be pub-
lished.
There is not room to speak further this week of
the July number. But it will mark the highest
point yet reached in Australian magazine work.
The “ For the Public Good ” section will be par-
ticularly strong.
Subscription 12s. per year (post free).
Advertising Rates on Application.
214 George Street, Sydney.
A NEW SOFT HAT ALA AMERICAN
Price,
17/6 Each.
Postage,
9d. E "*■
fdg
HERE’S a hat—a true copy of
the highest type of soft
hat in the world—the well-
known American.
Our illustration is a photo Of
the hat which is so faithful a
reproduction of the American
that good judges have been de-
ceived. It is made in England,
and is equal in quality of fur —
in lightness—in appearance—in
everything except one thing—it
is only half the price.
Colors are Light Grey and
Fawn.
Crowns are 5f inches; Brims
2f inches ; Bands 2 inches.
Each hat is fitted with grease-
proof leathers, and has unbound
edges.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
Men's
Outfitters...
. 309-311 George Street* SYDNEY*
An Adelaide burglar has unconsciously
earned a first-class testimonial for the local police.
J. R. Edwards, a lawyer practising in Broken
Hill, sent down to the S. A. Police Commissioner
a notice to be served on a witness. The man had
left the State, the notice was not served in time,
and Edwards wrote to the papers to say that the
Crow-eater police were a lot of fossils. But he
has a house in Adelaide himself, and last week
burglars went through it. Within four days every
article was recovered from different pawnshops,
and the thief—a stranger both to Edwards and
the police—was in custody. The solicitor has now
publicly withdrawn his growl. Adelaide is no
place for a burglar, anyway. There is nothing to
do with the plunder, and the few suspicious
characters are so well rounded up that arrest and
restitution are commonly effected in 48 hours.
* * * *
Some of the clerics who ran the sensational
Methodist mission meeting in Sydney last week,
when £2353 was raised in one day for the purpose
of teaching the Fijian to pound the loud hymn in
short metre, played it very low down on some of
the people in the audience. When the stream of
contributions had apparently run out, and there
was no sign of anybody else offering, one black-
coated buttoner arose and remarked: “There is
an avenue of subscriptions that has not yet been
touched. Many of those present have lost dear
relatives and friends through death, and, no
doubt, would like to contribute something in their
memory.” One sad-faced, grey-haired oid lady in
the front almost immediately burst into tears, and
offered two guineas in the name of a dead son, and
fully £3OO was raised through this cruel and savage
harrowing of the feelings of the bereaved. It was
a triumph of ingenuity—this idea of collecting
from the dead —and when that grey-haired mother
sat weeping in the front seat it is to be hoped the
clerical hawk felt ashamed of himself.
* * * *
The Carruthers Government, which has a
mania for selling something, has sold the old
Observer Tavern, in George-street, where the
ancient Sydney inquests used to be held. It got
£3500 for the 30ft. frontage. Another mouldy
pile in the same quarter, the New York Hotel, is
being torn down. It was part of a block that
went up in the ’twenties ; but it wasn’t licensed
as a pub till 50 years later. Then, probably as a
delicate compliment to its age, they called it the
Nil Desperandum, but renamed it some. years
afterwards when it got so old that despair was
written all over it.
When the N.S.W. Public Service Board
took over the supervision of the State’s unfortu-
nate public servants, it created an arbitrary valu-
ation of emoluments to nurses, thus : Salary, £65;
quarters, £10; rations, £l5; fuel and light, £5;
total £95. Then an understudy of Joe’s made the
brilliant discovery that rations cost more than £l5
per annum. He said nothing about fuel and
light, possibly because he didn’t see how the fuel
and light provided for the patients could be cut
off from the attendant nurses. He was also silent
on the subject of quarters, because even his intellect
was equal to realising the convenience of having a
nurse within call instead of her living in a boarding
house at the other end of the town. But he sug-
gested that the nurses should be handed £l5 per
annum and told to feed themselves, and Premier
Joe is'said to have approved the great idea. The
scheme came to nothing, for presently the genius
discovered that if the nurses had to runout to buy
their chops and potatoes, and then leave the
patients while they personally fried, that pro-
vender, the hospitals would go to pieces. But
probably Joseph and his friend will think out
another bright idea by-and-bye.
* * * *
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Preserving the ’ome—the Tory squatter’s
idea of it, as shown in the advertising columns :
TX7 ANTED, Boundary Rider ; single ; references ;
’’ must have good dog ; £1 per week. Apply
Manager, Mokanger.
He must not have a wife. Also, he
must not have children. But he
must have a dog. A dog is the
squatter’s idea of ’ome.
DEATH COMETH UNA WARES.
“Yes, I’m thinking of trying a good hair dye.”
“ Going to dye it! Why , man, you're not even
in time for the funeral.”
Adelaide business people are wrath with
the Tramway Trust for refusing to run a double
line of tram rails down the principal commercial
streets. Old Colonel Light laid out Adelaide with
a compass and a rule —first a wide street and then
a narrow street —and it happens that the big
retail shopkeepers have nearly all gone into the
narrow streets, and left the wide streets to offices,
warehouses, boarding-houses, and the little general
store that has the fly-paper and the sticks of
lolly in the window. The Trust’s proposal is to
take the cars along the wide streets. Wherefore
the traders of Rundle and Hindley streets, the
principal narrow ways, cry out, as did the
Ephesians, that their craft is in danger, and
they are making a great fuss on the subject.
* * * *
N.S. Wales Rifle Association is getting to
holts with Colonel Foster, the Sydney ’Varsity’s
military lecturer, who says good rifle shooting is
of no particular use in battle, and it points out
that the local panjandrum is at loggerheads with
Roberts, Buller, and the modern text-books. As
Foster may be regarded as a sort of animated
text-book, and as Roberts and Buller are at log-
gerheads with one another, it looks as though
military authorities have a fine way of disagree-
ing over the best method of kil ling perf ectstrangers.
Possibly there is no best method—all depends on
the sort of perfect stranger you set out to kill.
That is generally the way. There isn’t even a
best method of eating eggs. If you are in close
and constant communication with the hen, you can
boil them. If she is a stranger in a far land, you
try them scrambled.
* * * *
Just now Fitzroy (Melbourne) is having a
violent time among the record-breakers. Persons
with nothing better to do are still making pop
eyes in the vicinity of the piano that a misguided
fellow-creature vainly tried to keep on thumping
for 48 hours. And while they are gazing, a rival
record-breaker presents them with documents
ornamented with an elegant portrait of a duck,
and reading thus: —
RECORDS !! !
The goose that laid the golden egg is not’to be compared
with this duck. This duck laid 326 eggs in 354 days, only
missing 28 days in the above time. On view in our
window. Don’t miss seeing this record-breaker.
Mr. Healy played the piano for 46J hours unceasingly.
Another good record !
Yet some ignoramuses assert that Australia is
hopelessly severed from the great centres of art !
* * * *
An enterprising individual who sought to
make a living by trading on the bargain-hunting
proclivities of women was lately dealt with at
Sydney Quarter Sessions. His offence was the
selling of an alleged pound of tea to a Neutral
Bay resident for Is. 6d., and throwing in an order
on an alleged George-street firm for six cups and
saucers. Now, 3s. a dozen will buy only
the most ordinary cups and saucers, so
that a purchaser, under the circumstances,
couldn’t expect much in the way of tea.
In this instance the lady weighed the tea and
noted that it wasn’t and on inquiry in George-
street found that the cup and saucer firm was a
myth. Also the tea was vile. So she got
precious little for her eighteen pence, while the
vendor received eighteen months. It came out in
evidence that quite a competence can be earned
this way, as the duped female can be usually
depended on not to prosecute. .Also it was elicited
that certain “tea” is sold wholesale in Sydney
for under 3d. a lb.
* * * *
There are woods of high mercantile value,
Rare woods of great beauty and price,
And woods of such close grain and hardness
As resist all white ants, rats, and mice.
But the Woods of all woods to be lauded,
(You all will agree, I am sure),
Is the Woods to whom mankind’s indebted,
For the only Great Peppermint Cure.*
At one Melbourne skating carnival a fan-
tastically-garbed youth floated round the floor,
upsetting everybody. When remonstrated with,
he upset them more, and, finally, an indignant
stranger, whose fiancee had just been made to
turn a succession of four somersaults, dragged
him outside and punched his
head gloriously. After a turn
at the tap, the youth re-
) turned gamely to the floor,
upset several dozen more
couples, and, when the
time came for the prize
distribution, announced
that he was sustaining the
character of a whirlwind.
The committee had no
option but to hand him
over a butter-dish, valued
at 3s. Gd., and he glode
off with the iron-mqn-
gery, a flush of pride
suffusing his battered
features. The com-
mittee of the Literary
Pageant ball scowled
with a dark and hor-
rible scowl at a
frolicsome youth
who proposed that
he and a number
of familiar spirits,
male and female,
should contribute a
Rabelais set, in which
he proposed to appear as
Panurge and, he re-
marked, “ have a shot
for the prize for the best-
sustained character, of
course.” A high-toned
affair like the L.P. ball
didn’t have any prize for the
best-sustained character, and
he knew it. In fact, it would
be rather an advantage if the
management of every ball shut
down on this form of tom.
foolery. Whenever visitors
find some individual making
himself rather more of an ass
and a nuisance than usual, he
is found -to be going strong
for the best-sustained char-
acter prize. Some years ago,
the committee of that great
Parisian fixture, the Students’
Ball of the Four Arts, used to
give such prizes ; but finally a
competitor elected to go as a
Stench, and sustained the
character so well that, inside
five minutes, an official with
his nose in his hand rushed
at him in the middle of the empty ball-room,
and laying the prize at his feet, motioned
for him to leave before be was assassinated.
That was the last occasion on which such a prize
was given. Since then the officials have shuddered
at the very mention of the best-sustained character.
* * * *
“Sailor” on the vexed question of the
Australian seaman :—
Very good of “Belaying Pin” (B. 16/5/’07) to agree
with ' me re Australian sailors. I know about
the Maoriland sailing ships he mentions, and think
he’ll find most of his “six out of every eight
engaged” are Maorilanders. They and Tasmanians
go to sea more than Australians. I still hold
that my Australian ships’ average of two Australians in
eight is well up to the mark. Granted that many
foreign rs make good Australians and fine sailors, that
isn’t the point. The best all-round sailor-man I’ve met in
these waters is a Dago, but, for all that, I’d rather have
British-Australians. Illogical, perhaps ! Have met a few
called Limburger or Gorgonzola who are as Australian as
The Bulletin ; but they are of the second generation.
The Australian shipowner is mostly English, and doesn’t
give more than he can help. The better pay and food is
the result of Trades Unionism. There is still room for a
lot of improvement in accommodation. Few of our older
ships would pass present requirements of the British Board
of Trade as to fo’c’sles, and those requirements are not
exacting. One of the Howard Smith Co. said lately : “ The
Australian coastal trade was better catered for and at low'er
prices than that of any other country.” 'that was the
Fat owner talking of his Private Enterprise ships. He
didn’t mention that the profits are from three to five
times larger than those of English coastal cos. And the
way they treat the employees is evidenced in the Easby
case. The present combine is sufficiently near to a com-
plete monopoly as it is, and should not be subsidised.
Much better for the Commonwealth Government to start
a line of its own, using it as a naval reserve.
* * * *
Chief Justice Madden spoke strenuously in
the Banco Court, Melbourne, one recent afternoon
“It is the same thing over and over. Every day
I have to try cases in which the pleadings are all
over the place—no cohesion, no logic, no any-
thing. It is all talk, talk, talk.” At the very
moment that his Honor railed thus, four expen-
sive barristers were wasting needless days trying
to help a costly Judge ascertain whether certain
somewhat-skilled laborers ought to get as much as
£2 per week. The questions asked by those
allegedly learned gentleman-by-Act-of-Parliament
were puerile when they weren’t insulting—what
the witness did with an odd fourpenee that
hadn’t been accounted for in the weekly balance-
sheet ; whether he smoked ; if he had an occa-
sional drink, etc., etc. On the one side, men
doing Useful work, and struggling for £2 a week ;
on the other, men—“all talk, talk, talk”—
patronising or bullying or insulting the useful
people, and getting for it as much a day as the
useful people were pleading to be paid a month.
Truly, it is a cranky world !
The new Adelaide Tramway Trust is
making progress. It hasn’t yet done much to
get rid of the filthy old horse-cars that rumble
through the streets, it is true, but it has fixed up
this bylaw, and Le Hunte has confirmed it: —
No person ’■hall, whilst upon a tram, without the per-
mission of the secretary of the Trust, blow or play upon
any musical instrument, nor shall any person whilst upon
a tram blow or play upon any horn, mouth organ, whistle,
Jew’s harp, or other similar instrument.
Note the keen ear and intellect of the Trust.
John Downer, for instance, may play a piano on
the tram as he rides out to North Adelaide, pro-
vided he gets a note from the secretary ; but not
even the secretary may authorise John Downer to
play a Jew’s harp on the tram.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
BEING PROVISIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
"All Day With the Lord.—Upper room, S. Yarra Bap-
tist Church, Monday, 3rd ; prayer, 7 a.m. Bring pro-
visions, tea provided.”— Age Advt.
Amen ! so let it be 1
Bring ye the food,
To do you go-o-o-d —
We will provide the tea !
No apples green to gripe—
But food bring ye !
We’ll find the tea 1!
We’ll also find the tripe !!!
VIC
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE
TRAFFIG
GONSTABLE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A T a crossing where the ever-rushing tram
Bumpeth hard across the intersecting line,
Where the hasty man articulateth “ damn ,”
And the loungers ’ gainst the corner-post recline —
There he standeth! See ! He raiseth up a hand.
And the high and mighty Jehu giveth way ;
Noio the hand across the heaven waveth grand,
Now it oscillateth slightly, seeming gay.
He condescendcth answer to a friend,
He reproveth now the driver of a cart,
And he searcheth for his book and pencil-end,
And he writeth now a little while apart —
What he writeth in the booklet none can tell,
Nor the mighty thoughts that crowd his mighty
brain.
Ha ! The weapon ’neath his jumper bulgeth well
Ashe scowleth on the carter once again.
Though I know there be inspectors more than he,
Though his better half may call him plainly
“Bill,”
Yet he seems a mighty Monarch unto me —
He’s the Overlord of Crossing Places still!
n.s.w.
EUNGELLA.
THE OLD, OLD MEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The honorary bench holds veterans of surprising endur-
ance. In one suburban court it has happened more than
once that the four presiding justices have averaged 80
years of age ! — Melbourne Argus.
The courthouse flies buzz in and out, and they hopscotch
up and down ;
They chevy the men who puff and pout on the bench—
from nape to crown.
They chase and skip ; and the angry, red
says, “ Five pound,
Or”—here he slaps his bald, old head —“ Six months /”
and a grin goes round [
As the stricken fowl-fiend murmurs “’Ell!” and grinds
his teeth, clean wild
At the plunge he’s had in the bubbling well of justice
undefiled.
And the old, old men, each brain a-drowse beneath its
scanty thatch,
They make old, snuffling sounds like cows that scent a
lucerne-patch.
The small, round, purple shinypate whose chin hangs
down three deep,
And the gaunt, grey, blighted heavyweight with a face
like a wearied sheep,
The stooped and slim, and the short and stout, they’re
all old men and know
The way of the saint, and the sinful lout, and the school-
girl white as snow ;
They know some tricks of the lawyer’s trade—and shady
ones at that,
The way to sit back, solemn and staid, and wink at the
sins of Fat,
While the plaintive bloke with the stubbly chin and a
record of petty crime,
Who’s perished along the track of sin, goes in to do his
time.
The old, old men, they droop and drone, in a horrible,
sad decay;
They’re gone in brain and blood and bone —but they act
their parts all day ;
They say “That’s right!” and it is wrong—and right,
and they bellow “No ! ”
And the Three-months-hard, he groans “ How long ! ”
(he’d snapped a dollar or so).
And the freed wife-beater seeks his wife and grabs her
lank back hair
And gives her bean 3 with a carving-knife, or the leg of a
broken chair,
The old, old men, they’re old as sin, and their stock of
sense is small,
But they stick to the courts through thick and thin, like
flies to a sunny wall.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
With only one more month to go, the sort of
statements the State Treasurers will be able to make at
the end of their financial year is now pretty evident.
Except Westralia, they will all get on the top rail, and
crow—some of them with some justification, some of
them with very little. Here are the figures, as far as the
incomplete Treasury reports allow figures to be got
together
State Revenues for May.
May, 1906. May, 1907.
N.S. Wales .. £1,071,518 £1,169,490 Inc. £97,972
Victoria .. .. 723,544 767,835 Inc. 44,291
Queensland .. 335,857 383,782 Inc. 47,925
Westralia .. 279,056 250,044 Dec. 29,012
Tasmania .. 80,758 86,211 Inc. 5,453
State Revenues for Year so far.
1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S.W. (11 mos.).. £11,151,397£12,203,650 Inc. £1,052,253
Victoria (11 mos.) 7,062,204 7,539,756 Inc. 477,552
Q’land (11 mos) .. 3,444,132 3,853,074 Inc. 408,942
Westralia (11 mos.) 3,163,566 3,021,235 Dec. 142,331
Tasmania(ll mos.) 826,498 878,205 Inc. 51,707
S. Aus. (9 months) 1,990,028 2,225,201 Inc. 235,173
Expenditure for Year so Far.
1905-6. 1906-7.
£ £ £
N.S. Wales (11 mos.).. 10,640,215 11,214,424 Inc. 574,209
Queensland(ll mos.).. 2,731,735 2,924,095 Inc. 192,360
Westralia (11 mos.).. 3,219,328 3,114,833 Dec. 104,495
Loan Expenditure for Year so Far.
1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S. Wales (11 m05.)..£1,379,265 £1,224,026 Dec. £155,239
Queensland (11 mos.) 251,416 558,754 Inc. 307,338
The principal features of the foregoing may be
put into these bundles: —
N.S. Wales. —This time last year the surplus was
£511,182 ; it is now £989,226, or £478,044 more. Last year
the surplus (for the full year) was £896,124 ; conse-
quently, if nothing abnormal happens this current
month, and only as much income tax comes in as came
in last June, this year’s surplus should be £1,374,168.
That, however, will include something over £1,000,000
derived from the sale of public estate. Out of this sur-
plus and expected surplus £918,051 has been transferred
already to the Public Works and Closer Settlement
Funds. Yet, notwithstanding that transfer, just short
of a million and a quarter of money has been borrowed
and spent. And notwithstanding that numerous items
of expenditure formerly paid out of revenue are no doubt
now paid out of Works Fund, the ordinary expenditure
has moved up from £9,273,704 as at May 31, 1900, to
£11,214,424 as at May 31, 1907, an increase in expenditure
of £1,940,720 for eleven months. Yet, by talking about
remission of taxation and reduction of -railway rates,
Treasurer Carruthers has made quite a lot of people be-
lieve that he is the financial reformer he isn’t.
Victoria. —Nothing is known about Victoria’s expendi-
ture. But presuming that T. Bent’s estimate has been
kept handy, there will be a surplus of three-quarters of a
million. T. Bent estimated that he would get in
£7,554,568 of revenue in the 12 months. In 11 months he
has collected £7,539,756, or only £14,812 short of the full
year’s estimate ; so that practically June revenue will be
all surplus. And last June’s revenue was £735,422.
Nothing is said either about the loan expenditure, but
that doesn’t amount to much. In 1906 the total, exclu-
sive of money spent to repurchase estates (£754,983),
Was £177,983. The year before that it was £372,437.
Ih the matter of recent borrowings N.S. Wales, Wes-
tralia and S. Australia have been the chief sinners ;
though something can be said for Westralia that can’t be
said for the others—it had to promptly meet and provide
for a great inrush of population. Of £34,697,353 of new
debt added in the Commonwealth between 1900 and
June, 1905, N.S. Wales was responsible for £19,221,992 ;
and of a loan expenditure of £3,547,703 in 1906 N.S.
Wales was responsible for £1,357,771, and the figures will
be about the same this year. Therefore of about
£41,500,000 borrowed since the birth of the Common-
wealth, N.S. Wales’ share is £22,000,000, or more than
that of all the other States put together. In the face of
a revenue which has grown from £10,203,931 in 1900 to,
say, £13,320,000 in 1907, and despite the fact that over
£1,000,000 of the expenditure the State had to meet in
1900 is now carried by the Commonwealth, which ought
to have also helped to make borrowing unnecessary, N.S.
Wales has gone to the pawnshop more than all the others
put together. It has added £22,000,000 to its debts while
Victoria has added £4,050,000 (taking the Victorian loan
expenditure for land resumptions, &c., in the past year at
about £750,000).
Queensland.— Last year at the end of May there was
£712,397 in the stocking, out of which the half-year’s in-
terest had to come ; and the year finished the following
month with a surplus of £127,811. There is now £928,979
in the stocking, or £216,582 more ; so this year’s surplus
looks as though it will be about £330,000. Meantime
public-wo.ks repairs and retrenched public-service
salaries have been seen to, which with other things have
added £192,360 to the expenditure : so the surplus is even
better than it looks. The worst feature of the Queens-
land case is the growth of the once almost-abolished
borrowing.
Westralia.—At the start of the year the Westralian
Treasurer said that there was going to be a
deficit, but what was a little thing like a
deficit to worry over ! Other people might put
on an extra tax here, or cut off a bit of expen-
diture there; for its part, Westralia would just
wait for something to turn up. And the thing that has
turned up is a rather larger deficit than was bargained
for. The Treasurer brought forward a debit of £119,900
from last year, and it has now grown to £213,501. It is
likely to go on growing. Meantime the State cheerfully
scents money in the Eastern States, and goes in for a
“vigorous works policy.” A sample is just reported.
Merton’s Reward Co. didn’t have a water supply, it said ;
so the Government, a month or two ago, provided one to
keep the mill going. Now the co. finds that the ore has
got so poor that work will have to knock off. But Cohen
won’t knock the water-supply debt off.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. is very daring.
At a time when there is a good deal of solid opinion that
it is an incubus and a danger—that the vast profits which
it makes are one of the reasons why it is admittedly
difficult for the Commonwealth to pursue its White Aus-
tralia policy in the sugar-growing districts—the co. an-
nounces what amounts to a watering of capital. The
present capital is £2,200,000, in 110,000 shares, on which
10 per cent, is paid, or £220,000 a year. It is now pro-
posed to increase the capital to £2,500,000, but of the
£3OO 000 only £225,000 is to be paid up by the share-
holders; the other £75,000 will be paid for them
out of undivided profits. In other words, each 22
shares get for a total of £45 three shares which will
be worth something over £125. They will be worth
£133 6s. Bd. on a 4i per cent, basis, assuming that the
10 per cent, dividend is continued. At even £125 this
means that the co. is going to make a present of £BO to
each holder of 22 shares, or very little short of £4 per
share. That, practically, is the amount of the present
“ water.”
What are C.S.R. shares worth, with the new
issue in prospect ? Present price of shares is about £44.
Twenty-two shares at £44 means £968. They carry three
shares = £45 ; total, £lOl3. The 25 shares, assuming the
10 per cent. div. is continued, will bring in £5O a year ;
and that is equal to £4 JBs. Bd. per cent.—which is the
return an investor would get if he paid £44 per share. A
man who wants a 5 per cent, investment cannot pay
more than £43 Bs. 2d. per share (disregarding the fact
that a small amount of interest is already accrued—the
co’s last balance was at the end of March). A man who
is satisfied with a ih per cent, investment, and is pre-
pared to take the very small risk of the present scheme
going through, and the larger risk of the Commonwealth
doing something emphatic in the sugar industry in order
to help it to keep “ white’’—that man could afford to
pay £4B 9s. for the shares.
The Melbourne brewery amalgamation has been
completed ; and the businesses of the Carlton, McCracken,
Castlemaine, Victoria, Shamrock and Poster cos. have
been taken over by the Carlton and United Breweries
Proprietary, Ltd. This co. does not take over all the assets,
however ; the balances not taken by the new brewery
co. either go to assets realisation cos. or are retained
by the existing cos. The new brewery co. has the right
to take the breweries on rental from the present cos. ; in
the case of the Castlemaine brewery it is announced that
the rent will be £BOO a year. The new co. will start with
cash and goods to the value of £200,000, and without any
liabilities. It will not issue scrip, but a sort of trans-
ferable inscribed stock —without liability, of course.
Whether, however, there will be a free market
for the stock remains to be seen, inasmuch as
the directors are expressly placed under no obliga-
tion to issue a balance sheet. In the case of
McCracken’s, the shareholders get 41,625 shares the
debenture holders get 143,375. Of these 41,625 shares
the preference shareholders take 19,000; that means that
pref. shareholders get 10s. in the £ in new’ shares, and
ordinary shareholders Is. lOd. in the £. The Castlemaine
Co. gets 102,500 shares, in return for w'hich it turns over,
as well as its business, goods and cash to the extent of
about £20,000. No clear statement of the whole position
has, however, been given ; and it looks as though it is
intended to carry on the Melbourne brewery business for
some time to come as much undent cloak as possible.
* * * *
Mostly the directors of Australasian industrial
cos., which have to struggle against insufficient Protec-
tion, try to put a good face on the matter by not
writing off enough for depreciation of plant and stock, or
by writing off nothing at all. That is to say, they show
profits at the expense of their capital, in the hope that
the politicians will give them more Protection.
But the politicians are slow’, and that sort of make-
believe must end some time ; and it generallj’ends in a
horrible awakening for the shareholders, who haven’t
been behind the scenes. A typical case comes from
Maoriland. For many years past Donaghy’s Rope and
Twine Co., Ltd., has looked a fairly prosperous
concern, which has paid 7 per cent, on its £47,000
capital. But a while ago a practically new Board was
appointed, which proceeded to make a valuation of
the assets, and then it was discovered that, instead
of these assets being worth £77,055 as the books showed,
they are now really worth only £36,342. The reserves of
all kinds on March 31 were £13,584 ; so there remains a
deficit of £27,l2B—more than half the capital. Appar-
ently, however, the new’ Board hasn’t the heart to face
the situation at once and write off that much capital as
lost ; sp the deficit is carried to profit and loss suspense
account. Fortunately the revaluation does not affect the
profits ; and, as the new Board has stopped dividends, a
recovery may be made. But it w'ill be a long and weary
process.
* « * *
The Melbourne broker’s view is that he isn’t
losing anything by the rule prohibiting members of the
Exchange from sharing commission with outsiders. The
outsider who used to get the commission—one-third it was
till the rule was altered —was in nearly all cases the legal
manager of the co. in whose stock a dabbler wanted
shares ; and the Melbourne broker’s view is that a legal
manager isn’t in the same position as the “runner”
whom the London broker puts up with —chiefly because
London is a big place, and it is harder to run against a
broker when you want one ; or, when you don’t want
one, it is easier to avoid him, and it isn’t the broker’s
business co be avoided. Adelaide and Sydney are claimed
to be solidly with the Melbourne Exchange in the matter ;
and a large section of the legal managers, especially of
the old school, reckon that the less legal managers are
encouraged to mix themselves up with share-dealing- the
better.
* » * *
Goldsbbough, Mort and Co., Ltd., the wool
people :
Gross Interest paid on Deben- Writ- Re-
Mar., Earnings. ture Stocks, &c. ten off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1897.. 69,589 J A stock 4 p.c. =j. 68 ,9X4 6 7 5 Nil
1898.. 60,257 A ” 4” ” 59,656 601 Nil
1899.. 60,102 A ~ 4 ~ „ 59,656 446 Nil
1900.. 65,338 A „ 4„ „ 59,565 5,773 Nil
Added to
Reserves.
1901.. 69,810 -jg ” * ” ” j-66,351 3,459 3,459
1902.. 83,897 All” 4 ” ” 82,398 1,499 4,958
1903.. 79,136 All „ 4 „ „ 78,771 365 5,323
1904.. 84,723 All „ 4 „ „ 78,089 6,634 11,957
1905.. 95,459 All „ 4 „ „ 78,023 17,436 29,393
1906.-181,817 it ’’ 5” ” [ 85,102 168,765 98,158
p.c. dividend 27,950 J
f A stock 4 p.c. = 46,8971
1907.. 220,675 -J B „ 5 „ „ 36,385 181,493179,651
1,10 p.c. dividend 55,900;
So far as its relations with clients are concerned Golds-
brough, Mort and Co., Ltd., probably stands as high in
estimation now as ever it did ; but in other matters its
administration has succeeded in getting itself most
thoroughly distrusted. Even the great prosperity which
it is now able to report—and prosperity generally silences
criticism—has simply the effect of intensifying the
suspicion with which the administration of the concern is
viewed. Now, various things have conspired to create
this suspicion, and the administration may possibly have
a perfect defence. The history of the wormy twistings of
its share and debenture capital is something like this :
1893. —First reconstruction. The paid capital was
£450,000, in 45,000 £lO shares. Reserves (£260,000) were
written off ; 900,000 sharps of £4 15s. were issued, ss.
paid, instead of the old shares. That meant that £225,000
of capital was written off. Debenture-holders and de-
positors, who had about 10-times the capital in the busi-
ness that shareholders had, got 5 per cent, debentures,
partly at long dates.
1895.—Second reconstruction. Debenture stock halved
into A and B stock, carrying 4 per cent., the B stock in-
terest dependent on there being sufficient profit available
after payment of A interest. Shareholders given the
right to pay up to £2 155., and then receive £2 ss. prefer-
ence shares.
1900. —Statement at this date shows that of the 900,000
shares 738,162 had been allotted ; apparently the holders
of 80,919 old shares (161,838 new ones) declined to accept
the £4 10s. liability which the new shares involved. The
738,162 were divided as follows
Paid-up Preference 353,773
Ordinary 206,361
Forfeited Ordinary .. .. -• .. 178,028
Total 738,162
It will be observed that, though a great many shares
were not applied for, or were forfeited, possibly because of
the liability up to £4155., this reconstruction made shares
paid up and preferential when only £2 15s. had been
paid.
1901. —Third reconstruction. All ordinary share capital
cancelled—ordinary shareholders were those who had not
paid up to £2 15s. under the 1895 scheme. (In 1900 the
live ordinary shares stood credited with £178,614.) Pre-
ference shares were now further reduced from £2 ss. (£2
15s. actually paid) to £1 15s. At the same time it was
provided that profits should be distributed—(l) to create
a primary reserve fund of £75,000 to pay in teres on A and
B stock ; (2) after that, 25 per cent, to go to a secondary
reserve of £75,000, and 75 per cent, to pay first 3 per
cent, on capital and then an extra 1 per cent, on B stock ;
(3) when those things have been provided for, share-
holders can do as they like with the profits. (Both
reserves have now been made up to £75,000.)
From all of which it is obvious that of the
original shareholders a very large proportion have
dropped their interest. A great many dropped their in-
terest because of the liability of £4 10s. ; after they had
gone, the liability was reduced to £2 15s. Then a
great many more were dropped because, so recently as
1901, it was presumably held that the co. had irretriev-
ably lost the share capital on all but the preference
shares (and it will have been noted how those shares be-
came preferential). Now a profit is shown, after paying
the debenture stock and writing’ £33,500 off premises,
&c., equal to 15 per cent, on the capital before the ordi-
nary share capital was cancelled in 1901 ; and in 1905-6
the return was equal to over 10 per cent, all round. Yet
these ordinary shares were ruled out in 1901. It is quite
true that Australia is a land of marvellously rapid re-
coveries, yet probably the directors were not justified in
assuming that there would be any rapid recovery after
1901. It is quite certain, on the other hand,
that, unless all were given the most ample and minute
information regarding the company’s doings and position,
people who had that information would be placed at an
enormous advantage over the shareholder or the bond-
holder who had no inside knowledge. And, unfor-
tunately, the published information has not been
remarkable for its amplitude or minuteness. Moreover,
that reduction of the liability on preference shades, after
a great many had dropped out because of the liability,
leaves a nasty taste in the mouth ; and the further
dropping of the ordinary shares in 1901 doesn’t make the
taste any better. If in 1895 anybody knew what was
going to be done in these two cases he would have been
sure of making a very fine haul. Whether anybody did
know, The Bulletin can’t tell. And unfortunately those
ex-shareholders who have been dropped are not now in a
position to force an investigation and a search for any
internal evidence on the subject. The fact remains that
nearly two-thirds of the original share's have disap-
peared ; one-third now hold the interest of the lot.
Whether the co.’s position was ever as bad as
it was represented to be on one or two occasions, is only
a matter of opinion. The debenture-holders acted in a
peculiar way in not getting more power than they did—
and there may probably be an explanation of that.
Apparently, they allowed the shareholders to keep their
interest in order to extract some calls out of them. That
may have been a prudent thing ; but still, considering
what they had at stake, they acted in a strange fashion
in allowing other people to absolutely control the con-
cern. If they had known more about it—more about
Australian conditions and the workings of this co.—B
stock might not have been sold in large parcels down to
37 so recently as 1904. Altogether it has been a bad
business for the majority. Whether the minority
who stand where they do to-day stand there because
they had better information, which only the few
got (as members of the majority protest), or because they
knew the marvellous recoveries that pastoral Australia
makes, it is impossible to say. One thing may, however,
be profitably remembered. In a pastoral way, Australia
is always see-sawing ; and it is probably at the top, or
thereabouts, just now. All seasons are not good ; and
money may be perhaps just as easily lost by grabbing
apparent chances that offer now as it was lost by neglect-
ing to grab chances that did offer in the back years of
depression.
* * » *
The London Bank of Australia
Dividends.
... Added
Pref. Ord. to
Loss. s£p.c. 2Jp.c. Deficit. Deficit.
1897 .. £8,125 £9456 £17,581 £20,497
Carried to
Profits. Reserves.
1898 .. 10,885 9456 1,429 19,068
1899 .. 15,056 9456 5,600 13,468
1900 .. 14,816 9456 5,360 8,108
Reserves.
1901 .. 23,354 9456 13,898 5,790
1902 .. 13,690 9456 4,234 10,024
1903 .. 22,956 9456 £9207 4,293 14,317
Prom
1904 .. 15,893 9456 9192 2,756 ’ 11,562
To Re-
serves.
1905 .. 23,194 9456 9193 4,545" 16,107
1906 .. 36,454 9456 9197 17,801 33,908
This bank, like most of the others, did not realise how
bad the smash was when it was forced to a reconstruction
in 1893. It therefore undertook to pay 4J per cent, on
its locked-up deposits; and, although in 1887, when
things looked very gloomy, it was forced to get by
English Act a modification of these terms, so that per
cent, of the 4J per cent, should only be paid when profits
admitted, as a matter of fact it has paid the ih per cent,
all through. Indeed, as a r. cord had to be kept of the un-
paid 1| per cent., and all arrears had to be paid before any
dividend was declared, the relief was rather illusory. The
bank got authority, if necessary, to postpone payment of
one-third of the interest on its reconstructed deposits,
but unless it decided never to pay any dividend whatever,
the arrangement made no diminution in its liabilities.
At the same time, the priority dividend on the preference
shares was fixed as high as 5J per cent. ; so that it comes
to this : in order to give the hungering ordinary share-
holders a taste, it was necessary to pay a full 4J- per
cent, on the old deposits and 5J per cent, on the pre-
ference capital. The one consolation, almost, of the
ordinary shareholders is that, when they had the option,
so few of the old depositors accepted preference shares.
Though the severity of the terms has made
rapid progress impossible, the bank has nevertheless got
rid of £3,902,929 of the old debt. As at Dec. 31, 1893,
the total of old deposits not represented by pref. shares
stood at £4,845,156 ; the amount is now £942,227. The
following shows recent progress in repayment
Old 4£ p.c. De- Paid Off Interest Paid
posits Outstanding. During Year. During Year.
1897 .. £3,260,678
1898 .. 3,189,098 £71,580 £171,930
1899 .. 2,232,675 956,423 115,640
1900 .. 1,911,964 320,711 91,335
1901 .. 1,591,092 320,872 71,611
1902 .. 1,589,271 1,821 71,516
1903 .. 1,586,865 2,406 71,457
1904 .. 1,586,366 499 71,365
1905 .. 1,258,090 328,276 62,587
1906 ~ 942,227 315,863. 47,098
To a great extent, of course, this debt has been merely
transferred. Thus at the end of 1893 the new debts to
the public (notes, bills, and deposits) totalled £1,645,570 ;
the total at December 31 last was £4,174,684/ VVhat pro-
gress has been made with the old securitie- cannot unfor-
tunately be put down in a list like this. Still, if the old
securities, with some help from the new ones, were able
to earn the 4£ per cent, on the old deposits, they
can do a good deal more than earn interest on
the new 3 or per cent, deposits for which the old
deposits have been exchanged. Hence, apart from the
improvement in general Australian conditions, an in-
crease in the rate of earnings might naturally be looked
for. It is no use going back beyond 1903, because the
capital was written down in that year ; since then, how-
ever, profits have gone like this (on the basis of capital
and reserves)
1903 .. £4 2 4 per cent. | 1905 .. £4 211 per cent.
1904 .. 216 7 „ ! 1906 ..6 9 3
Other movements during the past 12 months are shown
here:—
1905. 1906.
Notes in Circulation £106,144 £128,990 Inc. £22,848
Bills, &c. .. .. 667,663 754,519 Inc. 86,856
New Deposits .. 2,935,600 3,291,175 Inc. 355,575
Liquid Assets .. 1,644,597 1,576,125 Dec. 68,472
Advances .. .. 3,522,297 3,757,600 Inc. 235,303
Premises .. .. 383,187 383,762 Inc. 575
The liquid assets represent under 38 per cent, of the debts
to the public apart from the old deposits, so that the bank
is working to about what may be reckoned the limit of
safety. It certainly has no resources in hand and wast-
ing. Assuming that it has been in a position to make
very satisfactory realisations of old securities during the
past couple of years—at prices which it probably never
hoped for for years to come —it has still also made
large recent advances. In other words, it appears to
have adopted a bold, launching-out policy; and so
far Australian conditions have entirely favored that
policy. The future may also possibly do so. That has to
be proved. The bank certainly faces that future with
bigger risks ; for example, the bulk of its deposits are
not a fixture as they were ; but whether that is of much,
or little, consequence depends upon the character of the
securities, old and new.
The New Yoek Life Insurance Co.
Tot'il Total Added tc
Income. Expenses. Claims. Outgoings. Funds.
Dee., £ £ £ £ £
1896 8,053,407 1,628,670 3,803,214 5,431,884 2,621,523
1897 8,599,400 1,728,702 3,993,715 5,722,417 2,876,983
1898 9,348,131 1,847,549 4,427,956 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 10,775,980 2,168,393 4,569,337 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900 12,122,329 2,421,921 4,805,725 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901 14,568,426 2,751,748 5,680,944 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902 16,255,708 3,355,544 6,287,031 9,642,575 6,613,133
1903 18,138,196 3,755,931 7,110,905 10,866,836 7,271,360
1904 19,909,847 3,996,274 8,298,338 12,294,612 7,615,235
1905 21,089,255 3,890,944 8,299,-94 12,190,838 8,898,417
1906 20,734,034 2,909,206 9,282,349 12,191,555 8,542,479
Though this office suffered less than some in the Ameri-
can insurance upheaval, it still shows the effects of that
trouble. And they are by no means all bad effects. It
is true that the upward march of the new business and
total income figures has been stopped. (The table
above shows the figures relating to cash income
and expenditure.) But only those misguided people
who mistake bigness for greatness will be sorry.
It was that mad rush for bigness which finally forced
the New York Legislature to limit the amount of
new business the office might take to £30,000,000 a year.
That of itself would automatically reduce the expense
rate ; but the rate is expressly limited. Look at the
result of that State interference that many insurance men
are fond of saying is so utterly unnecessary in their
case
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1897 .. £2O 2 1 p.c. 1902 .. £2O 12 10 p.c.
1898 .. 19 15 3 „ 1903 .. 20 14 2 „
1899 .. 20 2 5 „ 1904 .. 20 1 5 „
1900 .. 19 19 7 ~ 1905 .. 18 9 0 „
1901 .. 18 17 10 „ 1906 .. 14 0 7 ~
In 1905 the new premiums were £2,670,000. Last year
they were £1,570,087. That shrinkage accounts for the
remarkable fall in the expense rate ; for it was the costly
pursuit of an ever-increasing volume of new business
which previously made the expense figures what they were.
Certainly it cannot be said that so far the new business
has cost any less than it used to ; and it ought to cost less,
for now naturally only the most easily and cheaply got
business will be pursued. As a matter of fact, applying
the system usually adopted here, new business last
year cost about 117 per cent, of the first year’s
premiums, as against about 110 per cent, in the
previous year. Still, it has to be remembered
that the co. has had to fight vast prejudices
during the year, and that would make business abnormally
expensive to get. For the same reason, surrenders have
been very heavy. But these things will right themselves.
There have been scandals, but every expert investigation
made of the co.’s affairs has concluded with a certificate
of complete solvency. Moreover, the American insurance
law, as a result of the scandals, has become very
stringent—far more stringent than it is in countries
where no inquiries have been made, and where it is quite
possible that materials for scandal would be found if
inquiries were made.
* * * *
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne), from the time when, £16,022
having been embezzled, £14,728 of capital was written
off, which left the co. with £826 of reserves
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
April, 1902 .. £lOl9 8 p.c. = £516 £503 £1329
Oct., 1902 .. 1156 8 „ „ 516 640 1969
April, 1903 .. 688 8 ~ ~ 516 172 2141
Oct., 1903 .. 949 8 ~ „ 516 433 2574
April, 1904 .. 820 8 „ „ 516 304 2878
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8 „ „ 516 224 3102
April, 1905 .. 856 8 ~ „ 516 340 3442
Oct., 1905 .. 863 8 ~ „ 516 347 3789
April, 1906 .. 986 8 „ „ 516 470 4259
Oct., 1906 .. 950 8 „ „ 516 434 4693
April, 1907 .. 1013 10 ~ „ 645 368 5061
The capital is now £12,911 ; the debts (all but a few
pounds of which are fixed deposits) total £5517. With
about £3500 more capital of its own, which is no doubt
earning something well over 7 per cent. (£245 a year), it
is a good deal easier to pay 10 per cent, now than it was
to pay- 8 per cent, five years ago, other things being
equal. But other things have not been altogether equal :
in 1902 the. pledges and stock totalled £19,283 ; in these
prosperous times they are down to £17,961. It’s a good
wind that doesn’t blow ill to somebody. Still, the in-
creased dividend absorbs less than two-thirds of the net
profit, assuming that the provision for depreciation is
enough and that the stated profit is, therefore, really- net.
•+ * » «
The Perpetual Trustees, Estate, and Agency
Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1898.. £1723 12£ per cent. =£lol6 £707 £854
1899 .. 1308 12J ~ „ 1016 292 1146
1900 .. 1943 12 j ~ „ 1016 927 2073
1901 .. 1585 12$ „ „ 1016 569 2642
1902 .. 1799 121 ~ •„ 1016 783 3425
1903 .. 1359 121 „ 1016 343 3768
1904 .. 2057 121 „ ~ 1016 1041 4809
Premiums on new share issue .. 1332 6141
1905 .. 2302 121 per cent. = 1093 1209 7350
1906 .. 2094 12J „ „ 1172 922 8272
1907 .. 1817 121 » ~ 1172 645 8917
This co. does more than the ordinary trustee co. ; it has,
for instance, a seat on the Dunedin Stock Exchange—
though it is doubtful whether the businesses of share-
broking and acting as trustee make even as good a
mixture as those of lawyer and trustee. The eo.’s
clients, at any rate, have a substantial protection;
apart from paid capital (£9375) and reserves (and both
these are represented by cash, debentures or mortgages),
there is £96,875 of uncalled capital—which is liable t o
make shareholders careful. The business, though the
profits show a shrinkage for the year, still gave the
glittering return of £lO ss. lid. per cent, on capital and
reserves.
Ivanhoe’s revenue for 1906 showed a decrease
compared with 1905 and 1904, but the net profit was suf-
ficient to permit of the usual dividend distribution of :4
per cent. On the whole, the position of this Westralian
co. is very solid. The general reserve fund has been in-
creased to £60,000 ; the bullion reserve stands at £37,000;
the cash balance at £60,000. And the ore reserves,
accepting the official estimate, represent a profit of nearly
£6 per share.
There is a profit equal to 50 per cent, of the pre-
sent market value of Great Boulder now in sight in that
mine.
* •* . * *
Word is being passed round that the big tellu-
ride ore shoots in the Kalgurli (W.A.) show signs of con-
traction in the bottom workings. The first two levels
yieldedalotof rich ore ; for the next few hundred feet the
property was only- a shadow of its former self; after
that, immense bulges of good stone were struck and held
down to 1150 ft. It is below this depth that the shoots
are alleged to be shrinking. In July, last year, the ore
reserves stood at 650,000 tons of a recoverable value of
605., equal to five y-ears’ supplies at the present rate of
output. The Kalgurli is a fine mine, but it lies within a
zone noted for utter unreliability of the ore shoots, so
that one never knows at what level it may go wrong.
Boulder Perseverance (W. A.) is fading day by
day. Four years ago, when shareholders received eight
shares for every one previously- held, the dividend dis-
tributions were equal to 25 per cent, on the split shares.
Each succeeding year has seen a drop of 5 per *ent. in the
rate of dividends, which for 1906 only amounted to 5
per cent. The serious falling off in ore value at depth
explains this heavy shrinkage, and future years promise
to be leaner still. As usual, a big song is made in the
annual report as to lower working costs and higher ex-
traction. Working expenditure is set down at 20s. lOd.
per ton. Total costs, however, really work out at a
shade under 295. per ton, so that the co.’s method of
putting facts and figures before shareholders is mis-
leading, and savors too much of the old Kalgoorlie game
of putting the limelight on some costs and keeping others
in the dark. No figures are given in the report as to the
assay value of ore treated or percentage of extrac-
tion obtained for the past three years, so it is
impossible to say without going through the books
whether the loud whoop about the great improvement
effected in extraction is justified or not. Taking last
year’s figures as a basis, and allowing 3s. 3d. per ton for
loss in residues, the actual profit in sight in relation to
capital is so small that it requires a keen eyesight to see
it at all. This, coupled with the continued deterioration
of values at depth, makes the future outlook a bit blue.
* « * *
During the month Oroya will pay 2s. 6d. a
share, or £56,250, against 45., or £90,000, in June, ’O6


Great Boulder pays 9d., or £65,625, the j^g^as
Black Range will probably pay 6d., or £lBl2 10s., as
usual; but the chances of Hainault pay g >
£6500, seem rather remote, as profits for hrst tom
months of the year are only £4350.
Boulder Main Reef may dodge another recon-
struction, but the unexpected will happ ready
Plant alterations and additions absoibed exuendi-
cash the co. had in hand, and excess of w°rkmg expenm
ture over receipts has landed it into debt. average
of ore of a sort in sight, but unfortunately the average
grade is not high enough to make it the r g one
experts think that the Reef has a chance fg_ g
or more of the Horseshoe or Boulder
There is a slender possibility of this, whu l t \ p
the mine’s only chance.
Oroya-Black Range shares premise to be a
favorite gambling counter before long. A {
ore some 1200 ft. long has been exposed P n c ,
first-rate values have been met with in a ' v '"“
on the underlay, and the mine througnout P
ture. Ore in sight, estimated at eighteen months sup
should easily crush an ounce to the ton , t c
management intends to set its face aga ns .
dressing,” a lower average than this maj be p •
Handsome dividends will probably PepaKlfoi a time ,
but as the reef is not to be trusted farther than jou can
see it, the life of the mine is uncertain. L bfc -|*f h • •
mill starts running about the end of Jiint., or a »
of July. * » *
Gwalia*Consols (W.A.) is still being much
boomed by the management, which in this Tn
been backed by J. B. Holman, M.L.A., and State In-
spector Lander, and now by Robert Sargent, State
battery manager. There is a mg lode on above
and there are said to be 117,000 tons of ore in si a
100 ft. worth 30s. per ton. A plat has been cut at 2001 t.,
but practically no work has been ar d
the mill was increased from 10 to 30 head of stai P >
it is said that all of them will run after this month.
Still, outside opinion is that the management is J,
and there are grave doubts about the ore estimates.
* *
East Fin gall, Day Dawn (W.A. ), about which
most gaudy reports have been published during e 5 ® ’
has held its meeting in London, and Bull-Cohen was told
that everything was rosy. This was so recent that the
report of the meeting has only just arrived. And j
already the mine has been shut down, and all hands
sacked. So much for mine reports.
* * * *
Great Ophir, Davyhurst (W.A.), has made a
fresh start, and it is again stated that sufticuent work-
ing capital ” has been provided. It would require
£SOOO to £lO,OOO to get the mine going, and whether
this amount has been put up it is IU IP°. S ® I ~ .
This is one of the best mines outside of Kalgoorlie,has a
large low-grade lode opened up to an underlay depth oi
3Joft., and has about 50,000 tons of ore practically in
sight. Two prospecting shafts prove that the lode con-
tinues quite as wide and as payable 1500 ft. east of the
main workings. Want of working capital has, however,
kept it back. * # *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), shows continued
improvement in the bottom level, both the drive and the
rise running up to 80s. a ton for 4 s ft. wide. The co.
till next February to pay £< 000, the balance o* the
purchase price, which Manager Henderson reckoned he
could make up out of profits. But as Henderson s pre-
dictions about the fourth level were not realised, holders
have lost some of their faith in the rest of ins predictions.
The future working of the mine will be greatly aided by
the Norseman railway, the first section of which to
Higginsville, the half-way house, has been started. When
completed, this will reduce cartage by 50 miles.
Lancefield (W.A.) is still under a cloud and the
furnaces are not proving the success anticipated, lpsis
attributed by the management to the dampness of the
ore, but the real fact is that the large percentage of
arsenical pyrites, and, incidentally, of graphite, spoils the
roast. It is said that a fresh expert is coming out from
England to try his hand. # 4
The Ida H., Laverton (W. A.), looks like having
a new lease of life. In the winze below 500 ft. the reef
cut clean out ; but, on crosscutting- 25ft. east, a new
make of stone 3ft. wide, worth 3oz„ has been met. The
Ida has been a good little mine, and original holders have
more than got back their money.
. * * *
Hansen and Evans, Kalgoorlie, who are work-
ing a prospecting show on the fringe of the belt beyond
the North End, have had three small trial lots, angre-
,,-ating 25 tons, treated for a return of 170 oz over the
plates. This show is on the same run of country as the
Hidden Secret, and further east than where most of the
operations of the early days were carried out. Too little
work has been done to allow of any decided opinion as to
the value of the find, hut the owners have priced it at
£5OOO. Prospectors, however, generally open then
mouths wide.
» * * *
South German, Maldon (Vic.), has got the
western reef at 2000 ft, to the accompaniment o as nice a
little market jig as has been seen since the flutter over
the cutting of this make of stone in the upper level.
The hand that dealt was the hand of Esau, though
the voice was that of Jacob. Scrip was garnered
in for a week before in the neatest way conceivable ,
then support was apparently withdrawn, jobbers oouldn t
resist “chancing it,” and 48 hours later had to wondei
whether averaging at a 10s. advance was the right game
to play. Maldon certainly was having its revenge for the
hacking of the past ; but still shares had to again go
down, on a very poor amalgam return An end
must come to this gambling, even with South Ler
man The good name of the past won t avail it
the stock is to be, as it looks to-day, a market counter.
So far, the western reef has lived up to its reputation
when worked in the German Extended grou ndandthat
wasn’t much. The Block 2 stone milled from the leef by
the South German has not promised anything in the way
of divs What has to be realised, therefore, is that until
bulk lots are treated from the 2000 ft. level, buying shares
in the South German Go. is a rank gamble, with Maldon
on top most of the time.
Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.), after a long spell of
ballooning is slowly settling down towards Mother
Earth. At present it is fluttering over the place where
“ the bears ” rage, and some of the fripperies are being
torn off by their clawing. Go into the market place, and
forty different opinions are vouchsafed to account
decline. One is that there was a gold reserve on the
mine With the recollection of the dust that was raised
over the North Main Leads reserve, it is hardly P° s&lbl ®
that anything of the kind has been attempted At
all events the balance-sheet never hinted, at
such a reserve, and that ought to be pnma
facie evidence. The next story is that the reef is
narrowino- as if it were the legs of a saddle. The thna
is that some shooting has been done at the stock from
certSn quarters. Such solemn visages have been worn
hv one or two of the crowd that this is accepted as the
truth. Grumbling all along has been rife over the early
flittino- of ducks from the little Daylesford share pools.
But at the bottom of all is the fact that the spurry coun
trv isn’t panning out up to boom expectations, and the
shoots of 3 gold in the bottom level are not so rich as over-
head. There never would have been such a rise if some
of the bears had not given the chance for a squeeze.
Apart from that, when did the public do well by follow-
ing Ballarat? * * *
Action has been started by A. F. Bradshaw
against Bewick, Moreing- and Co. in respect to an alleged
breach of contract, which the plaintiff asserts the de
f jndants committed in respect to an agreement foi the
purchase of the Langi Logan, lease, near Arar; at IC ’ ) *
This announcement has occasioned as much talk as
Oarruthers’ cussedness did at Brisbane. Who is Braa
shaw? A spectacled journalist, plus a handicapper, and
generally a good fellow. Long years since he went in foi
deep-lead mining. Ararat has been his hobb y. a ' ld > f b ®
had not been a sticker he could have nicked £BOOO
or £lO 000 out of his paids in Cathcart Props., a mine
also in’ B M. & Co.’s hands. Lately Bradshaw s eaith-
hunger led him to peg out the old Lang. Logan clann
lower down the lead than the Cathcart. The ground
seems to have been passed on to 8., M. and C°., 'mthow,
when and where, and for what, no deponent so tar has
said. ’ But a Langi Logan No-Liability Co. was floated the
other dav with a small capital, and, judging by the
whispers that go round, Bradshaw didn’t think there was
the working cash available in the float that ought to have
been put up. So the mittens are off.
Vie. Minister McLeod has at last got the
Ballarat Guiding Star tribute m and the odds are a
guinea to nothing that he will fcahetheclaimfromthe
royalty sucker and hand it over to the
arid the South Star. There is no more fla B
than the Guiding Star, and it would ha '' e be ®"
that this particular old-man-of-the-sea co- would have
been content to pass out unobserved. But that is not
the way of those who get fat by doing nothing.
M‘Leod is sure to do justice by passing thei c aim‘ «
just as well to hint to the investor that he must not take
seriously the Age’s flam, that the blottm -out of t
tribute game is going to . revive Ballarat The
only thing to do that is to get gold,
the quarterly returns still show up the naked-
ness of the field. South Star, Star of the East, Band
and Loch only scrape along, despite Bent s £5OOO to
the South Star. Ballarat East isn t any bet . ter > "
wasn’t for the poor devil of a tnbutor, who is so fastened
down by family ties that he can’t quit, Ballarat as a
mining centre would be forlorn indeed, bo no one must
run away with the idea that the killing of the royalty
system means better yields and less calls. It doesn t.
The proposal to find £ for £ of Government
money to prospect Ballarat North does not ge.t much en-
couragement on the spot. Yet Ballarat will have to root
or fade, for its principal slipping toward
the metropolis, and only a revival in mining can the
drv rot. The present generation doesn t pay much heed
to"the fact that about a mile and a half of ?U uv ‘ al
try between the old Kohinoor and Creswick, produced
no less than ±257,000 in dividends. Nothing has been
done of consequence thereabouts since 04 but the tact
that almost all the largest nuggets were found m the old
Kohinoor, and that the Inkerman lead was tremendously
rich, should stimulate investors in a city wherein the
Y.M.O.A. expects to get £lO,OOO in 30 days to expend in
bricks and mortar. Geological opinion favors the coun-
try near the Inkerman lead, and even as a forlorn hope
the scheme is worth attention.
» * *
The glowing speeches made by Alec. Peacock
and Co. over the Welsh and Slater, Rocky Lead (Vic.),
have been succeeded by a dead silence brokem only by
calls The co. was floated in February in 32,000 shares of
±1 each, 8000 fully paid ; and preceding this the syndicate
crushed 111 tons for 414J0Z. Shares were applied for
hastily on the syndicate’s last return of 105 oz. from 30
tons, and it was prophesied that the mine s wealth would
astonish the fortunate shareholders. (Loud applause.)
A winding plant, 10 head battery, etc., were landed on the
mine, and from the 100 ft. shaft a drive was put in to cut
the lode. The golden stone is supposed to be only 30tt.
away, but all work has been stopped by the directors,
who have become liable for about £l4OO on account of
machinery, etc., and who won’t go on till the June call
(Is.) is paid. The directors seem to have mighty little
confidence now either in the reef or in the shareholders.
•** . * ,
The next boomlet in shallow mining may be at
Little Bendigo, near Ballarat, because some fossickers
have got 3oz. 2dwt. to the load from five loads.
* * * *
Those Ballarat speculators who picked up
South Woah Hawp forfeited shares at threepence, are
havim- a good run. In sinking, two veins of gold-bearing
stone have been struck, and at 1153 ft gold is showing
freely in a six-inch leader, so the chances of finding
the lode at the 1200 ft. level are a shade better.
# * * *
After a long struggle the little Magnet, Waratah
district (Tas.), has got on to a good wicket temporarily.
In the past 12 months, on its paid capital of £15,000, it
has made £11,910 net profit, of which ±6300 has been paid
in divs and div. duty—£42oo in the first, and £2lOO in the
second half the ptant has been added to lately, which
accounts for the smaller distribution in the second half.
There are 40,000 shares, which are worth about 30s. , on
the market value the year’s return has therefore been 10
ner cent.—none too much, considering where the metal
markets have been. The last half-year the output has
been 3330 tons of crude gossan and sulphide ore and con-
centrates. But the output ought not to be lumped
in this wav, for apparently it takes about 14
tons of sulphides to make one ton of concen-
trates Apparently the profit is really about 14s.
per ton of ore ; while the gossan of which there is only
about 12 months’ output in sight, and which last half-
year supplied nearly half the metal, ought to bewortlq
L £3 10s. per ton. That brings the profit from
the sulphides'* down to very small figures. The
manager says that two years’ dividends are practically
assured ” —ls. a quarter seems to be meant, or Bs. for the
two years. The lower-level developments are good, but,
after the gossan is gone, it is hard to see much profit
ahead should the lead market move £3 downward, as it is
fust about certain to do. How the 80s. per share value
s arrived at by the market it is still harder to see.
. *
Mt Bischoff (Tas.) treats 6000 tons of tin stone per
month or 18,000 tons to provide a quarterly ss. on 12,000
shares ’ so this modest distribution on shares nominally
worth £2O is equal to 3s. 4d. per ton, which is perilously
little considering the price of tin at the moment. Lewis,
of the Anchor mine, has made a report suggesting
economies in the handling and treatment of the ore. The
milling Recovery is fairly good ; the tailings, which are
subsequently re-treated, contain 3£lb. of tin oxide pel ton
of ore, equivalent to 16 per cent, of the original metal
contents 4 Some of the best plants in England have re-
duced their losses to 21b. of black tin per ton, and Mt.
Bischoff tailings, under re-treatment, show a loss of only
2Mb. per ton of ore. The Anchor itself is treating low-
grade material containing only 311 b. of black tin pel ton ,
hut there is a great difference between saving tin from
crude me and saving it out of tailings. It is Bischoff’s
luck to have a financial nest-egg, either to get improved
machinery or to secure another mine ; for the latter
purpose the directors are to get additional power. With
high prices the old mine should be a good stand-by, and,
to make the outlook in that way better, an improvement
in one part of it occurred quite recently. The ore is still
as rich as that of many Cornish tin mines.
9 * * *
British Broken Hill Co., at its meeting held in
London early last month, only had the accounts to the
end of December before it, and they showed a liquid
balance of £77,000 ; but the chairman announced that at
dateoif meeting the total had got up to £115,000. Out of
this balance, as at December 31, the 3s. div. was paid (in
L.A making ss. 6d., or per cent., for the year, as
against 22J per cent, for 1905: The net profits (£84,878)
were arrived at after charging working account with
-Cao 000 spent on development and machineiy. The ore
feserves were estimated at 570,000 tons, which was 5000
tons less than 12 months previously ; and, of course, ore
tanned by drill has not been reckoned in. But the
British ore bodies are irregular and hard to gauge, and
too much reliance may easily be put on figures like these.
The Hogan-Palmer party follows up its voting
success at the Broken Hill Junction North meeting by
putting in a requisition for a special meeting to pass a
few things that won’t he good for the health of the pre-
w directors. The first little cut at them is that no
director shall hold office who doesn’t also hold 500 shares ;
and that, on a recent showing of the register, would
make it very awkward for at least four directors. In case
the present Board should get over that the special meet-
in-is also asked to say that any director may be kicked
nut when the co. feels that way ; and the recent ballot
showed that this co. feels that way pretty badly.
♦ * * *
Araluen Steam Shovel, which introduces an
enUrelv novel system of alluvial work to N.S. Wales, is
already laid up for repairs. Only about 40 men are era-
„loVed so the shovel will have to be a remarkably good
labor-saver to scoop up dividends on 24,000 shares.
Queensland Copper Freeholds Ltd. now holds
more I properties ; all those of Archibald Coats and of the
Australian Copper Syndicate, of Glasgow, having been
transferred. Chairman Scott, at the statutory meeting
held in London last month, said : “We own eight free-
hold properties, known locally as Malbon, Argylla, Rain-
bow Chinaman, Diagonal, Yamamilla, Crusada, and
Dobbins containing an area of about 378 acres ; we also
hi ve a third of the shares of the Mountain Home Copper
Company, Limited, of Queensland, owning an area of
cmlip tOO acres, and a half interest in Sutherland’s selec-
tioTof 40 aeresat Cabbage Tree Creek.” The Mountain
Home and the Cabbage Tree Creek freehold are not much
to be triad about so far, but the others are big shows, and
the Argylla is probably the biggest copper show in
Oueensland Contracts have been let to sink a vertical
i t i vift on the Malbon : an underlie shaft and a verti-
-8 l haft on the Argylla; and for 2500 ft. of diamond-
s'll work on the Argylla. Meantime the West Clon-
cu tv Copper Ltd ’s Argylla North shaft has proved a
body of sulphides averaging 7i per cent, copper.
Mt. Molloy (Q.) has had a fair development at
the 370 ft. level; the downward continuation of payable
ore is a good feature. There is a dyke formation, and
that at least may be expected to last to a great depth.
Such failures as Mt. Garnet and Muldiva have cast doubt
over N Q. mines ; but when the geological conditions
vary so much, the failure of one mine is no guide what-
ever to the future of another. The Molloy tramway to
junction with the Mareeba-Cairns railway should prove a
good thing for the Port Douglas and Mossnian district.
Mt. Molloy is only 22 miles from the coast; the extension
of the tramway beyond Rifle Creek towards Pt. Douglas
should increase settlement in that inaccessible pait.
* * * *
The prospectus of Bennion’s Block the show
which was to save Croydon (Q.), but got water-logged
is out. Croydon is too sick and desperate to make any
violent demands ; the capital is therefore only 420,000, in
ss. shares, of which Bennion takes 30,000 W* e “ t
for the show, on which he has spent about 40000 , and
then he pays for 5000 contribs. If Bennion had called the
public.in 18 months ago it would have saved Croydon a
weary year. The point to be settled is whether the
bar,” or the fault, which cut off the Iguana, Lady Mary,
and Sir Walter line of reef, cuts it off for good : much the
same sort of point that Gympie is settling (apparently to
the field’s profit) at the Great Northern. And at Croydon
they have more to go on than they had at Gympie.
West Mutooroo (S. Aus.) isn’t Mutooroo, but is
miles distant. Still it pads the hoof as a Mutooroo show,
when it hasn’t even Mutooroo qualities. It is a big body
of iron sulphides with some odd splashes of copper—an
excellent flux quarry, but not a copper mine. West
Mutooroo might have been let alone to settle down to its
proper horizon, which will be tinted with the reflection
of calls, were it not for the nature of its reports. The
latest “ pitch ” is about “an important development at
the mine.” This development turns out thus:
“A bulk parcel of ore” (no quantity given) taken
from the trucks at Cockburn contains some excellent
specimens of erubescite, bornite and chalcopyrite (all
rich sulphide of copper).” This is very neat, but the
little word “ specimens” gives the show away ; for there
is nothing very special about bornite or yellow copper
pyrites specimens. The true inwardness of the story is
shown a little later, where it is stated that a truck-load
sample gave 26‘0 per cent, sulphur, while a little sample
of 121 b. gave 28'6 per cent, sulphur and I's per cent,
copper. Therefore West Mutooroo resolves itself into
a sulphur property —though 20ft. of a face isn t anything
too big when reliance has to be put on sulphur alone—
with a trace of copper. This is to be concentrated up to
40 per cent, sulphur, and carted and trained to its des*
tination, wherever that may be. Will the gentlemen who
put out this nice little specimen report also furnish the
sellin<>- price of the ore for sulphuric acid manufacture,
or as a flux, with the cost of mining, carting and railway
freight? Final judgment may then be forthcoming.
* * * *
W. A. Horn seconded Chairman Moreing’s
motion in London to adopt the Great t ingall report, re-
commending that the co. take an option over the Burra
Coppermine (S.A.). He told the shareholders— During
the period the mine was worked they never went below
330 ft. From that shallow depth they extracted £4,000,000
worth of copper ore. At that time there was no railway,
wages were high, and the whole of the ore had to be
carted to the seaboard, 100 miles, over an unmade road.
What is to be gained in the long run by talking rubbish
like that? Part of that Burra railway line was built as
far back as 1860 ; and trains were running into the Burra
in 1877 The mine was shut down, not because there was
no railway, but in spite of the railway. That develop-
ment work was shamefully neglected is true ; and that
the Fingall 00. is quite justified in spending £lO,OOO to
see if there is anything below the big cauldron of copper-
ore now emptied, is also true. But certainly the mine
was not shut down because it was too expensive to mine
and cart the ore ; it was shut down simply because there
was no ore to mine, and 25 railways wouldn’t have
affected that position one ounce.
* * » *
At the end of this month Wallaroo and Moonta
(S.A.) pays a 7s. 6d. dividend (18f per cent, on capital
at one pop and for one quarter); and, as soon as that
superfluous cash has been got out of the office, the co.
will proceed to cut up the unissued 40,000 shares among
the holders of the present 160,000 shares. That will be
equal to another 10s. dividend. But the chances are that
it will be really worth more than that. Present shares
are worth about £6 ss. ; and, after the new issue, shares
all round would have to fall from that to £5 2s. to make
the share-dividend worth only 10s. -
* * * *
3T J.B. : Worth holding now ...Stannum : Fact
that the co. has paid one div. doesn’t alter the opinion
that the mine is a poor one that couldn’t make profit with
tin under £l5O a t0n....A. Hooper: Barns and Webb,
Gvmpie (P.S. If you write to them, put a 2d. stamp on
vour letter.) J.O.D. : Can’t give mining tips. Believe
the mine you mention has good prospects ; but its shares
are many, and market speculators use them to make
bread-and-cheese with Maretino : Geo. Robertson’s
will send you a list on application. You will get answers
to the other questions from any text-book they recom-
mend.... XXX: (1) By specific agreement and by
o-etting representation on the Board ; (2) quoted on
Stock Exchange Prospector : Esk River Dredging Co.
is defunct. All the little capital put up was spent in
boring and results were not favorable. From corres-
pondence submitted, no cash to vendors was provided
for and one of the vendors (the only one known to the
co Wave a receipt for “ our share in company in full.”
C.8.D.P.: Write the sec., J. H. Cameron, Broken Hill.
They are a straight enough crowd.
* * * *
“ Coote” : I reckon you can’t produce another
mine in Australasia worked like one we have here in
Tasmania—and it’s so like Tasmania. One Phillips owns
it It is a tin show at Heemskirk, perched right on the
rocky cliffs facing Trial Harbor, 14 miles from Zeehan.
It carries a lode of very rich brown tin oxide. Phillips
has a hole sunk about 12ft. right into the side of the
mountain. He breaks the stuff out, carries it up a bush
ladder in a bucket, bums it to soften it, then breaks out
the richest portion and bags it, and gets on an average
about two bags of 70 per cent, tin per week. (Five or 50
times as much could be got by different methods.) He
can get his tin packed to Zeehan for 6s. 6d. per bag, but
he says he can “ earn good enough wages ” by wheeling
it So he wheels it—two bags a time, the 14 miles over a
roiwh corduroy track, in a barrow ! When spoken to
once about selling out, he was insulted, and said that he
had work enough to last his lifetime, and he might as
well be working there as anywhere else.
* * * *
The saddlery contract for the Commonwealth
military forces has been carried out by Holden and Frost,
an Adelaide firm. The saddlery sets numbered 5330, be-
sides those wanted for S.A. itself. All were completed in
less than the contract time, and not one article was re-
l'eoted - * * *
From a man at Cairns (Q.), who ought to know
what he is writing about: —“ If the Chillagoe 00. would
treat ore for the small man from the numerous payable
shows within reasonable distance of railway, the whole
of the furnaces would soon be in use. Under their pre-
sent system, rarely can they keep more than two furnaces
going! yet ore can be seen stacked along the railway from
Mareeba to Chillagoe, waiting for a chance to get a
smelting turn. Men will not stay at the smelters, and
why? They can do better elsewhere, under better con-
ditions. The officers (and their name is legion) are highly
paid; the rank and file, including the mechanics, are
under-paid. Result, a permanent staff cannot be kept,
and men only take the work as a stopgap. The directors
surely must know this in Melbourne, and it seems absurd
of them to tell their shareholders that once the
Almaden to Etheridge railway is completed there
will be an inexhaustible supply of ore. There
will be a vast supply, but it will be refractory.
And, in any case, it will be some two years before the
line gets to the Etheridge, and meantime share-
holders and bondholders will be growing impatient; and
when they come to ascertain that the profits of this
Mareeba to Chillagoe railway are being swamped in pay-
ing salaries of a huge staff, while four of their smelting
furnaces are often idle for want of ore, though the ore is
waiting, there will be ructions. Already some of the
most forceful of the men who are interested talk of writ-
ing to the London press to try to get the bondholders
to take a hand in altering things. Let the Melbourne
board authorise Mr. Back, the general manager, who is_ a
universal favorite, to pay good wages to the mechanics
and men, and cut the price for treatment of ore down to
the actual cost of treatment, plus 10s. per ton for the co.,
as they stated they would do in their original prospectus,
and there will be no dearth of ore for the whole of their
furnaces, and the co. will pay dividends before the Ethe-
ridge line is completed.
The mostly-English co. that now owns the
Premantle (W.A.) smelters is not having- any too much
luck with its northern prospecting copper shows. There
was some hope that things would be rushed along, and
the smelters kept going ; but that has been found impos-
sible The Smelter 00., which was engineered by Kauf-
man’ got on to velvet through handling the rich ore from
Golden Horseshoe ; apart from that, it wouldn t have
had a much less disastrous time than the old co. had.
• * • *
A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining 1 cos., because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost, which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. These machines have
been supplied to leading mines every where by the makers,
Messrs. Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have ap-
pointed W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, the
sole Australian agents. The machine has the distinction
of being a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.*
* * * •
P. W. Tewksbury, managing-director of a num-
ber of dredging companies in the Ovens district, writes,
under date 20th May, 1907 “ I find Rubberised Leather
much superior to ordinary leather or pure rubber for air
and other pump valves.” W. P. Shaw and 00., manufac-
turers, Abbotsford, Vic.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boilek and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from -.0
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Felton Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assayers and others.
This edition (sth blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
* * * *
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company is
building a complete plant for its claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 38 feet; a inch
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
6 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H.H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
bv steam from an externally fired multitubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoons to carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by 40 feet
wide To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
nlant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Robert McLintock, Eng.neer, of
Dunedin.* «
* * * *
The British Australasian in its issue of 19th
Julv 1906, wrote, regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited The society has advanced
rapidly, especially during the last three years, and it is
pretty generally admitted that the directors are con-
ducting a large business on very safe lines.”**
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * *
To Assayers, Analytical Chemists, Mining
Companies, etc. Taylor and Colledge Brisbane,
Laboratory Suppliers, carry full stocks of Balances,
Crucibles,Chemical Glassware, Merck’s Reagents, Purest
Chemicals and all Laboratory requisites at lowest rates.
Catalogue on application.* ,
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.* * * *
Cobar —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.
*** . . *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the C'obar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.
* ♦ * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.
* * » *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and vve will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply a t American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
IT * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay 1 , and may last as long again. Spual
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discription of cast or yvrought iron work.*
» ■* * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* ■* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald Hr
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
■*■***
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nvmagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write as for
Inventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
tight. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday ailernoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
■Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Lindy Lou” : Be “ Quan ” (B. 23/5/’O7)
and his growl concerning places with triplicate
names. A little village, situated barely twenty-
seven miles from Sydney, on the Western line,
can raise “Quan” to the extent of one. The
railway station isMountDruitt; the post-office and
public school display their shingles as Colyton ;
the church rears up its board as Rupertswood ;
while the inhabitants claim that they live at
Rope’s Creek. Heaven only knows how many
previous convictions the place has that it should
be driven to hide itself behind three aliases.
THE STOCK QUESTION.
PUBLICAN : “No mistake, this ’ere Donkin's a
smart bloke! ”
THE TEAT-PULLER: “Dunno. How many cows
kin he milk a day! ”
Somebody bought the right, title and in-
terest in 2000 donkeys for £lO in Adelaide the
other day. The donkeys are running at large on
certain mountainous State lands in S.A., and the
purchaser has the sole right to capture them. He
has already bought a donkey trap, and left for the
scene of action. But some politician has missed
an opportunity of buying an ideal Legislative
Council constituency dirt cheap. Fancy 2000
good constituents going at a little over a penny
each !
“G.S.K.”: The harangue of “Back-
blox ” (B. 16/5/’O7) re hotels met with in Outback
coach-travelling is a gross libel on some of the
most praiseworthy and plucky Australians. Have
travelled Outback from Broken Hill to Queens-
land, by way of Milparinka and Tibooburra, and
can vouch that there are NO “ half-crown ” hotels
along that route. Have ordered meals in private
dining-room at Milparinka, Tibooburra, Iduna
Park, and other wayside hotels, and never paid
more than Is. or Is. 6d. per meal. The hotels at
Fowler’s Gap, Iduna Park, and the others I have
mentioned, compare favorably with any of the
second-class hotels of the city. Again, re “ Back-
blox ” talk about having to get down to open
gates on the road. Does he recollect how many
gates exist between Broken Hill and Wompah
(Queensland border fence)? Let me tell him.
Not more than four —in a distance of 246 miles.
His assertion that the road is often blocked by
camel teams seems to show that “ Backblox ” has
never been beyond Argent-street, Broken Hill;
else he would know that the camel teams ha-ve
their own “pads,” which are always away from
the road. Surely, “ Backblox ”is a city dreamer
or a pal of Judkins.
* * * *
A gentleman whose signature resembles a
mad beetle writes
Re Narracoorte caves and petrified blackfellow, “ Flin-
derino ” and “ Brice Burn ” are out of it. In the winter
of 1862 I remember seeing a commercial traveller, his
pack of samples in a bluey across his shoulders. And, by
the way, he was minus boots, which were slung round his
neck, tied together with laces or summat. Later on,
it became known that the samples consisted of the
petrified blackfellow referred to.
The history of the defunct nigger read thus: In the
early ’forties (say 1844) the blacks were troubling the
local wool kings by discarding ’possum for mutton.
Whereupon one of the magnates, taking' the law into his
own hands, determined to stop at least one Combo from
continuing in the mutton butchering' business. After
the discussion the retailer took up his quarters in the
cave, where he remained sole occupant for 17 years or
thereaway. The commercial traveller referred to, scent-
ing satnpies, removed the mummified remains, but was
overtaken by the limb of the law, and the ancient butcher
was returned to his stalactited chamber, and securely (as
it was thought) walled in. He disappeared again, and
was a very much-travelled nigger when he finally reached
a museum (some say the British Museum) in England.
While it was in the custody of the police at Mount Gambier
I inspected the sample, which was an ordinary aboriginal,
in a semi-stooping position, and resembled hard, dark
tanned leather.
* * * *
“Mangrove”: I agree with David H.
Richards (B. 25/4/’O7) that the horse is an intelli-
gent animal, but“D.H.R.” undoubtedly pokes
borak at the public when he refers to the pre-
cautions taken by drovers’ horses to avoid
detection when appropriating grass belonging to
t’other chap. The drover’s prad is like his boss
—when hungry or thirsty, he takes whatever he
comes across. The only difference is that the
boss, by experience, knows and fears the sacred
rights of “proputty,” of which the gee-gee takes
no account. As to horses’ keenness of sight,
“D.H.R.” is correct. Time and again I have
known a horse detect a cow sneaking off camp at
night to go back to the calf which she left behind
on the track during the day. This, too, when the
half-sleepy rider knew nought of the hull’s sister’s
escape. Ride a good night horse round a cattle
camp, when the bovines are contented and at rest,
and, as he crawls around on his heat, like a thirsty
John plodding through Surry Hills in December,
he seems the laziest quadruped on the face of the
planet. But mount the same horse the following
night, when the cattle are restless and inclined to
rush. As he steps out springily, with flashing
eyes and ears pricked, listening intently for the
slightest movement among the mob, he seems a
bunch of nerves. A corner of the cattle (scared,
perhaps, by the cry of a night bird) may run in.
You will feel your horse’s heartbeat like a piston-
rod till the cattle settle down again. But let the
mob rush, and you experience a sensation with
which no other can compare. You are borne
madly along by an animal possessed, that will do
or dare anything in his mad desire to head the
cattle. Nor will his ardor cool off till the beasts
are once more steady, and give no sign of further
trouble. Then he becomes the same lazy, in-
different, hoof-dragging, old noddy as before,
drifting.along in his sleep, with no care for any-
thing under the canopy of night.
* * * *
“Janor”: Can corroborate “Silas Snell’s”
statement (B. 9/5/’O7) that “the Australian bear
can’t always he attacked with impunity,” for
away back in the ’6o’s I witnessed a duel
between a bloke and a bear, and the bear came
out on top. Mr. Koala was enjoying a pleasant
Sunday afternoon in the cool shade of a leafy
stringy-bark tree, foreninst the pub, and his
eloquence annoyed the bloke, and spoiled the
taste of his beer, and made him so dashed wild
that he walked up the tree to “wooden ” out the
animal. The bear roosted on a long horizontal
limb, and when the hunter appeared in the crown
of the tree, he waltzed gracefully further out.
The bloke rapidly overhauled him. Then, iust as
the “woodener” was about to fall, there was a
crash. The limb parted from the trunk, and, with
the same old thud, piled the scrap in a tangled
heap of leaves and branches at the base of the
tree. Mr. Koala emerged unhurt, and scooted
for the timber, uttering unprintable remarks.
The bloke was dead. I drank the rest of his
beer.
* * * •
“ PoLstan ” : Talking of tiger-cats (“ Silas
Snell,” B. 9/5/’O7), I once caught one in a rabbit-
trap, and it was also a boshter. Going round
with a lantern, I was under the delusion that my
•victim was a mere bunny. Then I suddenly felt
350 hooks tearing me to smithers. I created re-
moteness between myself and the beast. The
next morning my mate and Iwent to investigate ;
we found the trap still securely pinned, with giant
pussy mounting reluctant guard, and looking
indignant. “Letth’ poor beggar out,” said my
mate, with a soft expression of mercy on his
countenance. “ Pussy, pussy, pussy ! Poor
puss ”- The gentle animal made a leap, and
tore a pound or so out of Jim’s leg. Jim’s face
lost its sympathetic expression, and seizing another
trap by the spike, he passed the tiger one on the
ear and laid her out. Then he travelled around
the landscape on one leg, while I took the carcase
out and threw it many yards. But no sooner had
the corpse struck the ground than it burst into
galvanised action and swarmed all over Jim once
more. Jim bore down towards me through the
yell-laden air, but I’d had enough cat, and
making a laconic burst for the handiest tree, I
slid up the trunk, and pulled the tree up after me.
Jim passed on, leaving a comet-like tail of dust,
noise, leaves, &c., behind him as he went. Ulti-
mately he got the cat by the throttle, and spoilt
it, but not without sustaining great damage dur-
ing the frenzied process.
* tr * *
An item of interest to anyone with a bad
cough is that which tells him of an almost certain
cure. Angier’s Emulsion cures the most obstinate
cough. There is nothing equal to it for the lungs,
while it is a great aid to digestion and a splendid
tonic. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
Cormorants (shags) and turtles were, a
couple of years ago, declared thistles, or noxious
weeds, or pests, or something, in S. Aus.; and the
local small boy of the beach earns his Sunday-
school copper collection by slaughtering them at
a penny a time. For some reason or other, the
Lands Department has charge of the cormorant
and the turtle, presumably because they belong
to the sea, and in two years it has paid out for
over 20,000 of the fish-destroying birds, and for
nearly 60,000 turtles.
LIFELIKE.
PHOTOGRAPHER : “ Good morning Your wife
ordered this enlargement a week ago .”
GROGAN : “ H'm. It’s like her. Did she pay
for it?"
PHOTOGRAPHER : “No. She said you would pay
on delivery
GROGAN : “Did she! That’s like her, too.”
“ Flinderino ” writes from S.A. :
The seaport towns in the south-east of South Australia
take the bun for deadness. Port Macdonnell, where poet
Gordon spent his cradle days, is quiet enough, but
Beaehport and Kingston are much deader. The old-
fashioned white, sandstone houses, and the chalky-white
streets make one’s eyes tired with the glare ; and their
brightness forms a marked contrast with the inhabitants’
duiness. The arrival of the train three times a week
provides a little excitement. The youngsters, who are
not quite so tired as their elders, walk out half-a-mile to
meet the train, and ride hack on the footboard. About
once a month a coastal craft gives a look in and lands a
case of kerosene, a bag of sugar, and occasionally a case
of herrings or sardines. Once every couple of years some-
body capsizes a fishing-boat and gets drowned, but other-
wise death or sickness is unknown. Undertakers and
doctors are not required. As there are no wooden houses
to speak of, a house-afire seldom occurs, so 'even that
excitement is denied the residents. In the wool season a
commotion is caused by one or two oversea vessels calling
in to pick up wool. Each town possesses a harbor master,
and he comes in very handy to take around the plate
on a Sunday, or to take the chair at a concert.
Once a year, however, extraordinary excitement pre-
vads at Beaehport, when a steamer arrives from New-
castle with a load cf coal for the Mount Gambier gas-
works. Men are very scarce in the district, and, to assist
in unloading the coal, labor has to he got from Millicent
and other inland towns, including Tantanoola. (Tanta-
noola is where the tigers come from.) Farm laborers,
shearers, and rouseabouts cause amusement to the sea-
faring folk by coming aboard armed with potato spades,
hay forks, and miscellaneous agricultural implements.
Some of the men have never been on a ship before in their
lives. Many of the younger ones gaze upon the ocean for
the first time. If the sea happens to be a little choppy,
the majority of them have to throw up the job before it
is half finished.
Beaehport owns a salt-water lake known as the Pool of
Siloam. It is credited with possessing curative powers
of no small value. Anything, from an ache in the toe-
nail to a pain in the pulpit, is cured by bathing in the
Pool. Like the Blue Lake at Mount Gambier, and several
other lakes in the neighborhood, the Pool of Siloam is
“ unfathomable.”
“Itan”: At most of the oyster-bearing
inlets of the North Coast of N.S.W., close to the
oyster beds, there are large deposits of shells,
many feet above high-water mark. In some cases
the shell refuse is feet deep. One local theory is
that the coast has gradually risen, and carried the
shells with it. Another—which looks likelier—is
that our black brother Bill liked his oyster
supper. It seems pretty certain that the inland
blacks used to make yearly visits to the
coast for a fish diet when they tired of roast
’possum and baked snake, and as there are no
traces of battlefields near the oyster beds, or
skulls, or human bones, the chances are that
during the period there was some sort of tribal
truce. Probably the brethren swapped hunting
grounds during fish-time.
* * * *
A persistent cough should not beneglected.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will cure it.*
“Agricola ” : A bullock, though an unim-
aginative-looking beast, is yet a victim of peculiar
fancies. As stated by various scribes, he will
prefer death to working in company with a bull.
Another of bis peculiarities is a love for the smell
of new moleskins. The bullocky who dons a pair
of new moleskin rammies, and then attempts to
yoke up his team, is a man deserving of all
sympathy. The brutes crowd round him, and
sniff, and bellow delightedly, and try to lick him
wherever they can reach him with their tongues.
He may bellow
back at- them,
and spank
them on the
horns with his
spanner, but
unless he
changes those
pants he’ll be
lucky if he
finishes yoking
up inside an
hour. I once
saw a bul-
locky’s new-
chum assistant
sitting on a
fence, shout-
ing for help,
with sixteen
apparently in-
furiated bul-
locks fighting
and struggling
for a place in
the front row
of the orches-
trastalls. Even
after it had
been explained
to him that his
new moles
were the rea-
son of the aj>
plause his
mind was not
relieved, and
he tendered
his resigna-
tion, to take
effect from
straight-away.
The other day
I met a bnl-
locky gazing
more in anger
than in sorrow
at half the
gable and one
chimney of a new pair of moleskins which he
had left in an exposed position while he
went for a billy of water. The team had
divided the balance of the garment as a
memento, and put it in its scrap-book. That
bullocky didn't say anything, but his eyi s
bulged like red tram-lamps, and he made
large chewing motions with his mouth, and every
now and then he choked, and his head swelled to
twice its proper size, and he leaped in the air and
tried to reach down a star. His countenance was
crimson, with a leaning to purple, and I thought. I
saw a faint smoke arise from him. He seemed to
want to say something. In the end I believe he
wrote it down and handed it to the Chief Bullock.
* * * *
“David H. Richards”: Apropos of that
ant-campaign, chronicled by “Draillibor” (B.
16/5/’O7), I once watched a pitched battle between
an army of meat-ants and a force of the tiny black
order. The carnivorous ones seemed to be secesh-
ing from their home, and in their course they
invaded hostile territory. The invaded immedi-
ately foregathered in great numbers, and falling
valiantly upon their enemies, smote them, hip and
thigh, to some considerable tune. The fight isn’t
always to the bulky, nor the race to the loud.
The intrepid little ebon objects fastened in great
numbers to the legs of the meat breed, whose
utmost efforts to shake them off were futile. Glue
wasn’t a circumstance to those ants. The engage-
ment only lasted about fifteen minutes. The
meat-chewers who managed to get through the
fighting lines fled like a daily paper looking for a
Federal capital. At the end of the fray theie
were huge heaps of beef-ants, defunct and
mangled, and crowds of little black ones, wiping
their foreheads, and saying what a fine morning it
was ! Another time I saw an energetically-con-
ducted argument betwixt a party of sugar-ants and
the meat specimens. The meat-eaters licked the
other variety hollow, and pursued them to their
nest, where they put most of them to the sword.
I think this last was a religious war.
■* * * »
“Combo” from the Northern Territory :
The native question has been thrashed out in the other
States of the Commonwealth, but South Australia has
fieen quite callous in the matter of the aborigines, and
the Northern Territory presents a shocking picture of
neglect. There is no law in the Territory to prevent the
blacks mixing with other races. They have no reserves,
are not given rations or blankets, and loaf around the
camps for a livelihood. A shocking state of immorality
exists. Europeans and Asiatics are permitted to live
with native women, and nearly every camp, whether
Chinese or otherwise, has one or more females, some
mere children under 16 years of age. There is no pro-
tection for the natives. The medical officer in Palmer-
ston is the Protector, bub he is only allowed £5O per
annum, which amount is spent in the town. There the
aborigines are well clothed, and to all outward appear-
ances well cared for. But what a cruel picture the
back country presents ! The principal population is
Chinese. In some places there are no whites at all;
the Driffield, Union and Burrundie are examples.
Young children are obtained from the blacks in
return for provisions, tobacco, liquor, or opium ;
and the police do not interfere. They will tell you
they have no power to interfere, as there is no law to
prevent a black female living with a Chinaman. In my
peregrinations all over the Chow-infested mining areas
I have been told of and have witnessed harrowing
cruelties to native children —horrors that cannot he pub-
lished in the columns of a newspaper. Now that opium
is not so easily procurable as formerly, every Chintse
humpy has the inevitable bottle of square gin, which is
kept chiefly for the lubras, although the Chows consume a
g-reat deal themselves. I invite bookseller Cole or any
other Asiatic advocate to come up to the Northern
Territory and spend a month or so amongst these pagan
hovels. If the spectacles he will see there do not cure
him, then he is past redemption.
* * * •
Now, if from any sudden chill
A cold your nose should tint,
On no account take anything
For it but Peppermint.
We all are liable to colds,
Or frequently to cough,
On hand keep Woods’ mighty Cure,
Don’t put this matter off.*
KITTY MAGINNIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oi’m not Oirish—ye’ll only nadehearin’
Me spake to be shure that Oi’m not;
But to-night Oi’m a true son av Erin,
From the sole av me fut to the shpot
Where the hair av me head growin’ thin is ;
Oi’ve been dancin’, colloguin’, and all,
All night wid Miss Kitty Maginnis,
The belle av the Eganstown hall!
Aw, Geraldine, Sheila, and Eily !
They floated like quanes before me,
Inthrojooced wid a bow be me wily
Ould frind, Pat Maginnis, M.O. !
But faith, Oi am thinkin’ ’tis pardon
Oi’d be askin’ av Pat, did he guess
Av thim toimes at the ind av th’ gyarden
Wid Miss Kitty that kep’ sayin’ “ Yes ! ”
In th’ dark wid an Oirishman’s sisther,
’Tis there that ye’ll learn to feel glad,
Wid y’r head loike a shwellin’ orchisthra,
And y’r hear-rt loike th’ divil gone mad !
F’r y’r sins wan he wan are forgiven,
Till y’re boulder than iver y’ve been ;
Thin oh, ’tis the porthals av Hivin—
And there’s just th’ wan saint to be seen !
Wid her pretty whoite hands in a quiver,
And her heart batin’ clear as a bell,
And her eyes thryin’ har-rder than iver
To hoide th’ swate sayorets they tell.
Wid no daylight betune y’r two noses,
Yet you thremblin’ in fear y’ shud miss
Her mouth pink an’ tendher as roses—
Och, ’tis howly, an Oirish gurl’s kiss !
VIC.
PRIAN.
REAPING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah, there’s singing at the sowing
And there’s laughing at the growing,
But there’s weeping at the mowing
Of the wild-oat yield.
Yes, there’s weeping, weeping, weeping
At the bitter harvest reaping,
As the scythe goes sweeping, sweeping
O’er the wild-oat field.
VIC.
PAUL MELL.


David Storer <& Sons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
<EL BLUE.
Kept by
ALL MERCHANTS
(St, STOREKEEPERS.
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
SAFE WOOL-MARKING OB
SHEEP BRANDING OIL.
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
A
Choice
Brooch
is the
crowning effect
of a Smart
Costume.
«■< .«*.
* s * ,\
Pink Tourmaline, with Choice Whole Pearls and
Tourmalines, £l5.
Rubies, Pearls and Oli Vibes,
exquisitely finished in fine gold,
£5 ss.
We Make Choice Brooches—We Design them—We Set them
In our own Workshops. Work of the Highest Finish ; Work of Refined Taste ; Work of the Best Quality.
We cannot illustrate the thousands of designs we stock, as fashions change from day to day.
Our prices never exceed those of London.
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Harry C.N.,” writing from Winton
(Queensland), gives a cheerless picture of a journey
between Longreach and that town :
Five or six miles outside the town dead cattle could be
seen lying along the stock route, and this continued for
the 122 miles we covered. It appeared these cattle were
amongst the 70,000 that were driven along this track last
November. Now and again one would notice a dead
horse. The only vegetation consisted of the gidyea,
“ the dead finish,” mulga, spinifex, lignum vitae, and the
strange “roly-poly.” To those who have never seen this
plant, it is one of Nature’s marvels. Growing to a height
of about 20in., it looks like the back of a porcupine. It
overturns sideways when a strong wind arrives, and rolls
along and so scatters its seeds over the soil. At Maneroo
we encountered great mobs of sheep, one lot numbering
some 13,000. In many cases the ewes were dropping
their lambs, and the lambs were being left on the road to
die. In one place where hundreds of cattle were seen
lying dead, thousands of young lambs were noticed dead
also. The heat of the sun dries the carcases, and there is
absolutely no stench.
* * * *
“Rotorua” writes from Waihi (Maori-
land): —
You give far too much credit to G. P. Donnelly (B.
2/5/’O7) and far too little to his wife and to the Maoris of
the East Coast. G.P.’s mand among the Maoris is nil,
except in racing matters. His wife is the great element
in the partnership. In any case, most of the East Coast
Maoris are grafters, so the Donnelly entourage is no excep-
tion. All through Hawke’s Bay and Poverty Bay will
be found successful Maori farmers. At the Motu, above
Gisborne, is a co-operative butter factory, started years
ago by whites with only two dusky suppliers ; to-day, all
suppliers are Maoris, and the brown brethren milk up to
50 cows, and draw up to £6O per month for butterfat.
In the Cook and Waiapu counties the natives have
recently erected over 100 miles of telephone, and they
have subscribed liberally to the new Waiapu hospital.
In the Bay of Plenty they have long grown large
maize crops, and here in our bush are half a score
whose graft compares favorably with that of their white
mates. The limited Maori population here supplies the bulk
of Waihi’s fish. Unfortunately, the prophet disease,
endemic in Taranaki, is sporadic on the East Coast, and is
responsible for much intermittent idleness. . Toa’s mana
has survived the non-materialisation of King Ned, and
the Coast is now anxiously awaiting an eruption of White
Island and an accompanying tidal wave, which is to
sweep all pakehas from the Bay. The harder-headed
Gisborne natives stopped Toa on the frontier, and threw
mud at his alleged inspiration. Given individualisation
of titles, and most Maoris would graft as well as the
average white. Small blame to them if they fail to see
the fun of working for the loafers of the hapu.
THE MOTOR GAR.
From a pedestrian’s point of view.
“ Lindy Lou " : “ Oxo” (B. 9/5/’O7) won-
ders that the crows which gorge on the carcases
of poisoned rabbits do not fall victims to their
appetites. It is only necessary to examine a car-
case after the crows have abandoned it to discover
the reason of their immunity. The stomach and
entrails are torn out and dragged about, but
not devoured, and those are the only paits
which contain any poison. Of course, there is
plenty of the smell of phosphorus about the poi-
soned rabbit to warn his consumer to go slow.
Foxes, also, are very careful to let the phos-
pliorised one’s stomach alone, though they bite off
the head and eat samples of the body.
EASILY FOUND.
HIS REV: “Ah, Pat! Pat! If ye persist in goin' in there ye'll he lost.”
PAT: “ Thrue, yer Riverenee; but, sure , Bridget ’ll know where to foind me.”
Twice at least did the old military have a
bit of fighting to do in N.S. Wales. In 1816,.
when the Hawkesbury aborigines committed many
outrages on the settlers, Governor Macquarie
proclaimed martial law in the country to the west
of Vinegar (now Rouse) Hill, and sent the soldiers
against our colored brother Binghi. Again, in
1823, when the Bathurst blacks gave considerable
trouble to the local whites, Governor Brisbane
pursued a similar course in the country west of
Mount York. The result was bad for our trouble-
some brother in both cases. In fact, before the:
campaigns ended, he was mostly our departed
brother.
* * * *
“Agricola”: Usually, in this district- —
Tumut (N.S.W.) —the emu is an infrequent fowl,,
excepting in the hills ’way back from population.
But since the ripening of the briar berries, there
has been a great influx of the large rooster and his.
family. They wander through the briar-infested
country in mobs of 15 or 20. Their workmanship,
in skinning the briar-bushes is good. The other
day I noticed half-a-dozen heavily loaded bushes,,
and the next morning there was scarcely a berry
to be seen, but the de-
ficiency was accounted for
by the number of emu
tracks. The emus are dis-
tinctly unpopular with
the smaller birds, on
account of the size of their
appetites. A flock of
loudly protesting parrots,
accompanies each mob of
emus, but the ungainly-
looking objects dine
stolidly, and do not even
bother to gaze in the direc-
tion of the chatterers.
Rabbits also accompany
them, but from a different
motive, for the emus, in
roughly snapping off the
berries, shake a good num-
ber to the ground. The
bunnies have not the
slightest fear of them, and
scramble and fight around their legs for the
coveted morsels, and find themselves ignored also.
The emu seems to have less capacity for taking
notice than a Chinese joss.
» * * *
The land-owner in Australia is mostly a
vandal. He not only destroys the timber without
leaving even a shade tree here and there, but he
takes no pride in any landmark. When W. C.
Wentworth built a homestead at Burburgate
(Boggabri, N.S.W.) he left intact an aboriginal
graveyard, where there were some trees carved by
the blacks m a most interesting fashion. But to-
day the graveyard is levelled and the trees are
gone to the sawmill. Even the True Cross would
go to the sawmill if the Australian big landlord
could get at it.
The Bulletin closed its mean man com-
petition sometime back, otherwise Barragan, hero
of this story, would at least have been considered
worthy of dishonorable mention. Barragan is a
dairyman on the edge of an outback suburb that
has grown up among the original gums and scrub.
For years he had in his employ, as herdsman, an
old man known as Teddy. Teddy was supposed
to be a bit daft, and certainly he was very vener-
able. Last winter’s cold and wet got him down,
and he became unable to do more than crawl
about, so he was discharged from his ancient
office. Teddy seemed to be incapable of grasping
the fact that he had ‘" got brusher,” and used to
go after Barragan’s cows as usual, and the spec-
tacle of Barragan running the decrepit veteran
•off his premises ceased to excite the interest of
the neighbors. But one day a man caught Barra-
gan kicking Teddy through the gate, and repri-
manded him for his cruelty. “Show a little
humanity,” said the stranger. “Humanity’s all
very well,” replied Barragan, “but I ain’t goin’
to let the old beggar play no dirty tricks on me.
Why, if I didn’t watch him he’d crawl under my
bouse to die.”
* * * *
“The Waster,” from Condoboliri(N.S. W.):
I have been trying to trap foxes lately, with indifferent
success, but with some excitement. I was using 141 b.
half-moon dog-traps. This morning, while going round
the traps, I put up a gigantic emu, whicn raced away
along the netting fence I was following. Against this
fence were two traps. He missed the first one, but
plumped his pedal extremity into the second, and then
things occurred. The trap was merely attached to a light
piece of wood, and the emu tore the whole lot out of the
ground at once, and began describing revolutions back
along the fence towards me. As the whirling mass of feet
and feathers, dead grass, and dog-trap revoluted past me
I fired a charge of No.- 4 into space. The result
was to w-heel the whole calamity in my direction. I
jumped for the fence, but was too late. Something
bumped me, and I was knocked yards. I looked
up in time to see the travelling earthquake col-
lide with the top wires of the fence. I don’t know what
he wanted the wires for, but he took them along ; also
half a post and a considerable amount of netting. In the
next paddcck a black boy was hunting up the plough
horses, on foot. He heard the row when the fence went,
and looked back, to see the whizzing mass of devastation'
making straight for him. I suppose the emu reckoned
all roads led to Rome just then, if he studied tne matter
at all; anyway, those were the roads he was travelling.
The darkie at once lost all interest in horses, and gave a
splendid exposition of the art of tree-climbing. He w'as
a quarter of a mile from me, but I could see his eyes glar-
ing like the headlights of a train, and they stuck out so
that I could have blown them off if I had breathed hard
enough. Our colored brother was up among the twigs
when the end-of-the-world passed beneath in a cloud of
dust, feathers and vegetation, the trap-chain rattling,
and the hoarse, whistling grunt of the emu cutting
through it all. It was too much. With a yell, he leapt
up a bit further, the branches gave, and he fairly
hummed by the time he hit the ground.
As I went into the homestead for a cart to shift the
ruins, I noticed a gap suddenly cloven in the sky-line of
a low range of hills about ten miles to the northward.
I have been wondering since if the emu passed that way.
I DON'T CARE!
Trouble’s knockin’ at the door !
I don’t care !
Grief and Woe play on the floor—
I don’t care !
Spoon-fed chickens know no joy,
I’ve had heaps without, alloy—
More, maybe, than was my share —
I don’t care !
Fortune knocked when I was out!
I don’t care !
Often-times I’ve felt her clout—
I don’t care !
Fools make money, wise men hold
With the miser’s clutch to gold ;
Win and waste—for want prepare !
I don’t care !
My best boy spliced my pal to-day
I don’t care !
Caused a flutter, quite aufait !
I don’t care!
There are Johnnies far more true,
Brown-eyed, grey-eyed, hazel, blue !
Man’s the bait in Hymen’s snare !
I don’t care !
Death is calling soon, they say,
I don’t care !
All must go the Wormy Way !
I don’t care !
When the scoutin’ shadow comes,
Blow no bugles, beat no drums—
I ain’t frightened, I’ll be there—
I don’t care !
vie.
RITA SUNYASHE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. IVo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
R.K. : You start: “Has any ‘Abo.’ contributor
ever heard of foxes eating- grapes before ?” Well, Solomon
alluded to it in the Scripture—though he wasn’t exactly an
“ Abo.” contributor C.R.N. (Eoliuca) : They are older
than our ancestor who lived in the tree-t0p.... W. A. Lewis:
England was a definitely Protected country forperhaps4oo
years, but the beginning and the end of Protection both
came by gradual instalments, and it is difficult to fix
dates. It was with the beginnings of Protection that
England first began to have manufactures, and ceased to
depend on the Flemings for most of its manufactured
goods. As for the duties—well, even if it were possible
to trace all the tariffs of four or five centuries, we
wouldn’t publish them. This is a mere newspaper—
not a Webster’s Dictionary nor a half-ton family 8ib1e....
Hadson : The bush dance has been danced so often that
it crawls now to the basket for rest, unless it is a very
special dance indeed.. ..C.R.N. : These jokes have
travelled round the earth so long that we can’t tell
whether they’re on the tenth or the eleventh lap n0w....
F. : Poem started rather heavily, and when we came
to the beautiful line—
I think we’ll have a Consolidated Land Act,
we gave it up Douglas T. : That joke about the horse,
and the trap, and the humorist, and the fence, is an oft-
told jest Viti: That “ drinks like a fish” mirthfulness
has seen its best days A. George: American jest of
long standing C.R.N. : Just hovers on the verge
of being humorous L.L. : Have met some poor
parodies of “ The Raven,” bub yours is a record
Major: Rather a dry pair of items .L.C. :'
The underclothing joke is off till next spring....
E. Johnson : Rather good, and would have passed if it
hadn’t been such a worn-out theme. By the way, are you
the Johnson who sat on the alligator in the Northern
Territory? R. McG. P. : Both hopelessly strained and
unreal. Presume the address you give for return is in
Adelaide, so are sending them there. An address always
looks more complete when it includes the name of the
towm... .Dion : Six verses beginning with “I saw,” one
commencing with “ I knew,” one with “ I watched,” and
one with “I scanned” (if it had been a Chicago beef
poem you might have said “I canned"); and they all
tell the well-known circumstance that in the end every-
body comes to grief and dies, or else just plain dies.
Well, we know that nobody lives for ever ; at least no one
has done it so far Wiremu: “Dinner Bell” rather
crude Collis : ‘ ‘ Boy’s Tragedy ” very poor. Also there
is a G. C. A. Colies whose verse isn’t poor, and your pen-
name is too close an adaptation... .L.M. : Dropped tear-
fully into basket F.W.F. : The alleged Masonic goat
is dead, and has been sold in some North Queensland
town as mutton H. : “ Pongelo”got spilt somehow'...
A Mummer : “ Ballad of Unrest ” not up to the standard
of some of your work Billy the Pig : Nob very much
of an incident Mouse: Reckon you are improving, but
you haven’t quite struck it with any of the last batch....
G. : Poem about your wild desire to slay the cor-
roborator who says “that’s right” rejected R. :
“ Julia” is pretty good, but still not high enough above
the great ruck of poems that have also been addressed
to Julia. It isn’t the poem but Julia that is worn out.
How about some verses addressed to Sarah Olodd ?....
Geraldine : Can’t find a single redeeming feature about
“Boocy” (is it meant for “boozy”?) Sailor: “Skip-
per’s Model” rests on about the smallest incident we
have met up to date... .Orphan Boy: When you make
statements about a man wdio can run 200yds. uphill—a
pretty steep hill—in less than 20sec. you should give
name and address J.W.K. : That Dick Seddon joke is
our own, cribbed from a back number of The Bulletin.
Where was the other joke cribbed from? O.P.Q. : No,
thank you (on second thoughts, not thank you)
Jaysee: We have doubts —horrible doubts—still here
goes
... .Relief : Suggestion that Federal Government should
charter a sort of world’s ferry-boat to go round picking
up strayed and destitute Australians simply hopeless....
W.S.R. : What is your grievance? Do you want the
w'ould-be suicide fried or grilled in addition to losing his
voice, the girl, a quantity of valuable blood, time, etc. ?
... .Jim : Simply the doctor had two fingers accidentally
bitten off. Nothing amusing in that... .Billy-boy:
Horse verses nob bad, but of purely local interest....
R.K.: Cannot, even in “Abo.” column, admit yarn re
Oapertee foxes getting drunk on “wine grapes.”
Odds: Wordy discussion of heredity, environment,
etc., utterly unsuited to Bulletin Wants to
Know: Sorry no means of finding out... .Poetry:
“ Ballade of Reading Gaol ” ; any bookseller will get it for
y0u.... Harold F.: No, thanks K. : The “Square
Puzzle,” for the solution of which a prize is offered by
Ellisdon and Co., is quite genuine. A number of appli-
cants who didn’t get the reward have sent us their solu-
tions of the problem, and pointed out the obvious
correctness of the same, and denounced the affair as a
fraud. After being shown the solution (in strict confi-
dence), we can only say that all that remains for these
people is to try again Inquirer (Melb.): Believe it is
simply a low-down, ignorant, ungrammatical swindle.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ronzo : Figures fairly good, but the single figure—the
mere picture of a perpendicular person pondering at him-
self —will hardly provide a livelihood on the illustrated
press A.R. (Fiji): Sorry to say not a sign of hope or
promise about it... .Said : The idea is worthy of a better
picture.... J.H.M.: That joke was drowned in the Flood.
Your revival of it is an amazing case of the resuscitation
of the apparently drowned Chateau : Not a nice joke.
Also not a joke. In fact it is not anything except that
it’s not nice....Squits : Our opinion about your wash
drawing is that you are one more of the vast horde of Vic-
torians who won’t take the trouble to remember that your
penny stamp only carries a letter inside your own State.
These are our matured views on your wash drawing.
THE METHODIST MUG.
Hearken, brethren, ’tis Fitchett that’s prating
If he fell to this planet from space,
’Midst the millions of sects here gyrating
He could pick out the Methodist’s face.
If a Methody’s phiz, as he down flits
To earth, smites him hard on the luff,
One glance is enough, Fitchett knows it’s
A Methodist’s mug.
Such discernment, dear brethren, 's o’er-rated ;
Dull, indeed, is the man who can’t trace
In lineaments lank, elongated.
The cheerless, cold, Methodist’s face,
If there’s one thro’ life’s revels and joys sits
Sour and dour with the scowl of a Thug,
By such signs, brother Fitchett doth know it’s
A Methodist’s mug.


Corot's “ The Bent Tree " is objected
to in Melbourne on the score of the
price.
The Bulletin knows of another Bent
tree that is even more costly.
A. POINT OF VIEW.
On the ground of interest and expedi-
ency, the public recognise the obligation
to save the infants of the State. Every
child is a valuable public asset, well
worth preserving as a matter of business.
—Argus on, necessity for Infant Life Pro-
- lection.
Fat: “ Well, I don’t know, but p’raps
there might be a reward If I took
them in.”
OF COURSE NOT.
The circumstances of the election do
not indicate that the Council, as such,
has fallen in the estimation of the elec-
tors.—Argus on the tired Vic. Leg. Council
elections.
Forinstance, this sort of thing could not
bC taken as proof of the performer’s
fall in his audience's estimation.
AND NO INTERFERENCE.
He felt they could not do better than
eave this matter in the hands of those
ladies and gentlemen . who had shown
rh C w an / * Ctl T e intereat ‘n neglected
children. (Applause.) Poppycock Peacock
on Infant Lije Protection.
One of Those Active Ladies: " Cer-
tainly, leave the matter in my
hands-whlch it’s all I asks of you.”
SHADOWED, OR A MARKED
MAN! II
At the instance of New South
Wales the Conference of State In-
sects agreed “That someone pos
sessing wide knowledge of constitu
tional law and practice be appointed, ’
with a view to keeping an eye, in the
interests of State rights/ on that
suspicious character, the Common I
wealth Government.
LIBERTY AND LIBERTIES.
The Mayor of one of our most im-
portant towns declared that a law which
allowed a public officer to pry into the
quality of goods vended by a respectable
tradesman was an outrageous interference
with the liberty of the subject.— Age.
Respectable Tradesman; “Quite right I
’Ow dare they rob the subject of
his liberty to be subjected to any
liberty I like to take with him I ”
WOMEN’S EXHIBITION.
Proposed Ladies’ Chorus.
—Daily Paper.
And would not a Ladies’ Ballet, we
respectfully ask, be also quite In keep*
ing with a women’s exhibition?
VICTORIAN SINS AND POLITICS.


At the recent Methodist Conference, held in
Sydney, reference was made to an intended tar
“ Battle with the Bottle.” The phrase made a first-class heading
the dSy papers, and supplies a not-too-b.d motif for an allegoric.,
picture, which see above.
\ Press Representative : “On what lines
' do you propose to prosecute this
\j battle with bottles?”
' Rev. Commandant : “ Well, we .sU'all
i first take up a collection ’’■2EJ 4 '
„ Press Rep. : “ Of-of-bottles? ”
K survivor of the battle—a bottle*
scarred hero.
(1) lIETHODIST FACE.—MALE.
There is also a riethody method of
editing a newspaper.
(2) METHODIST FACE.—FEMALE '
One of the speakers boasted that he
could always tell a Methodist by his
face. “Hop” regrets that the re-
sources of The Bulletin plant do not
afford means for expressing the local
color of the noses in above sketches.
A Battle with Bottles ” is naturally associated In the mind with
“ push ” methods.
THE METHODIST COUNTENANCE.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Gout, Rheumatism! Rheumatic Gout, Tic
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at l/=, 2/6, and
5/. If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers —
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GCORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Don’t blame poor little Judkins. When
he makes a fuss about nothing it’s only because
he thinks it his bounding duty.
T. M. Slattery, who has been doing well
in California, has crossed over to England to re-
present some American interests there.
The Bulletin feels consoled a little for
the loss of Peter Airey out of Queensland politics.
Now “P. Luftig” will have time to write verses
again.
“Hiphen” (from London); The Daily
Mail described Tommy Bent, on his arrival
here, asa “fine, upstanding, robust man—atypical
colonial.” Help!
Newton J. Moore, Premier of Westralia,
on his way to Brisbane got his first glimpse of the
east coast of Australia. He has only been out of
his native Groperland twice.
“Evangelist ” and show-woman Ada Ward
says, “I would never trust a minister of the
gispel who smokes.” Well, what about trusting
a preacheress who wears corsets and tight boots
and hair-dye ?
The democratic Scott Bennett who, after
one experience of Vic. Parliament, left Ballarat a
prey to Anti-Sosh, is now manager of a store run
on socialistic lines in Melbourne. Scotr lectures
on Sundays on “The New Theology.”
Bishop Marsden, Australia’s first home-
grown gaiters, born in Sydney in 1832, is still
living—in England—though it is 22 years since he
gave up the See of Bathurst. He is the son of
Charles, who was the only son of Parson Marsden,
of early N.S. Wales.
The Queensland Assembly acquired a par-
son at the recent elections. A retired sin-shifter —
Brentnall—has long hung up his shovel hat in the
Upper House, but the shepherd or toiler in the
vineyard is a novelty in the Assembly. The new
sky-admiral is Adamson, of Maryborough.
Passed out suddenly through apoplexy,
Dr. James Cox, of Collins-street, Melbourne. His
diploma (M. 8., Melbourne) was dated 1875. For
many years he had been recognised as the leading
aural surgeon of Victoria, and was the pioneer
operator for the removal of post-nasal growths.
Mr. Stephen Forster, who died at Peter-
sham, Sydney, last week, aged 71 years, was an
old-time Australian, having arrived with his
parents, in the early ’fifties. Soon after his
arrival, the father, also Stephen Forster, started as
a blacksmith in Harrington-street, near Gallows
Hill. He developed a big iron business, and was
the first to manufacture iron bedsteads in Aus-
t -alia, an industry still continued by his grandsons
at Ultimo.
NO DIFFERENCE NOW.
Under a proposed new law goods sent to Britain from
the colonies will have to be stamped “Made Abroad,”
and be in that respect on the same footing as those of
Germany, France, and other nations.— Daily Paper.
THE OLD MAN : “ You come in the back way
after this—same as the others.”
A much-convicted Victorian casta horrible
reflection at Acting-Premier Davies the other
day. After he had spent a Pleasant Sunday
Afternoon parcelling up portables in a Warragul
draper’s shop, they arrested him once more; and
then he turned out to be a man whom Davies had
lately released from Pentridge, without any
undue publicity, on the ground that he was a
poor, helpless, broken old person, and beyond any
further mischief.
Died up North, John Archibald, who was
“ called ” to the Queensland Legislative Council
in 1897, and managed to sit there 10 years without
doing anything worth mentioning. Originally a
school teacher, Archibald turned his hand to many
things after he got to Queensland. He helped
to fine Charters Towers’ earliest drunks, and then
was made warden at Ravensw r ood. But the tail-
end of his life was spent grinding wheat—he was
the largest part of the Dominion and Brisbane
Milling Cos. —and he was a lucky speculator in
many things besides wheat and flour.
Joe Wolinski, son of the Rabbi, and
painter of Sydney Art Gallery picture, “ After
Life’s Fitful Fever,” is in the front rank of suc-
cessful Australian artists in London, with three
pictures to his credit in the Royal Academy. Joe
was a sign-writer, with a fine tenor voice. He
has pursued the Muses —Music and Painting—
together for some ten years, and neither of the
ladies seems to be jealous.
There is no danger of Australian enthusiast
Fred McCubbin echoing, on return from his trip
to Europe, the sentiments of another (imported)
personage in Melbourne paint circles. “Do you
know,” the latter dignitary solemnly assured a
“welcome home” assemblage, “I never once
thought of Australia all the time I was away.”
No one emitted a crushing response, but even a
novice in thought-reading could interpret the
silence as “ That’s all right, old man. Australia
didn’t fret itself into an early mausoleum about
you.”
“ S.S.” : Purves, K.C., saying nice things
about Panton, on the occasion of the latter’s
birthday and the celebration of his belated retire-
ment from the Melbourne Police Court bench,
assured the brusque P.M. that he had net only
the admiration and respect of the Bar. but was
appreciated by all who knew him, even by those
lie sentenced. Lawyer Purves has often been
authorised to speak for those gentry, but here he
goes beyond his brief. As a matter of fact,
Panton, P.M., is the best-hated man in Mel-
bourne Gaol, less for his sentences than for his
parts of speech. It was rarely that the long,
angular P.M. sent a man to gaol without an
angry homily which embodied the magistrate’s
very aristocratic view of men and things, and
prisoners bitterly resent that as an abuse of
privilege.
“ Scribe ” : The Rev. W. Fifcchett’s re-
mark that he knows Anglicans by their collars,
Baptists by the cut of their hair, and Methodists
by the kindness and intellectuality of their faces,
suggests two or three things; but, firstly, that the
Rev. Fitchett is a Methodist parson. He is also
editor of a magazine that reeks of sour paste, and
has the track of the shears all over it. In this
publication we find the kindness of W. H. Fitchett
to W. H. Fitchett, and the intellectuality of
everybody ele. The magazine is called Ltfe, and
in the midst of Life Mr. Fitchett is in debt to all
his contemporaries. Therein he demonstrates
that the saving grace he possesses is the grace of
saving by taking for nothing what ordinary con-
scionable sinners would pay for. He holds fast
to that which is good, as the Scripture teacheth.
Cash is good. I sent a book to Life for review.
This intellectual Methodist with the good, kind
face, scissored out a whole chapter, and printed
it, but he did not give my hooka notice. This is
Methodistical kindness with a method, but “if he
he not kind to me, what care I how kind he be ! ”
One of the most curious things about the
House of Dodery, now coming to pieces in Tas-
mania, is that Dodery himself is a Tipperary man.
That a man from the very stronghold of revolution
in Ireland should give his name to a House of
little Fat men in Tasmania is one of the queer
happenings of politics. Dodery was born and
reared in Clonmel, the town in which Smith
O’Brien and his comrades in arms at the Battle of
Ballingarry were sentenced to be hanged, drawn,
and quartered. Later
on, it was decided
that O'Brien and Co.,
Limited, should be sent
to Tasmania instead,
but tiie fool of an Act
said that the convicts
must'be hanged, drawn,
and quartered unless
they gave their consent
not to be so mauled
and strangled. And
the prisoners refused
to allow the sentence
to be altered, and a
short Act had to he
passed through Parlia-
ment to compel them
to permit the Govern
ment not to hang,
draw, or quarter them.
Then O’Brien and his
friends were sent out
to V.D.L. for life.
Dodery went out free
and took a pub in
Longford, which pub
is now the headquar-
ters of the coursing
men in those parts.
Then when O’Brien
and his friends were released from durance in
V.D.L., and a deputation of colonists waited on
Smith O’Brien at John Pascoe Fawkner’s old
Cornwall Hotel to say good-bye, a man named
Dodery was among the crowd.
About Panton, P.M. :
The retirement of J. A. Panton, Melbourne’s P.M.,
should let loose smne reminiscences. On early Bendigo
he dispensed the best justice he had about him in a can-
vas tent, 12 xB. He did it seated on a packing case.
From ’5B to ’62 he travelled in Europe, and sketched and
painted. ’Sixty-three saw him P.M. in the district from
Heidelberg to Wood’s Point ; after which came a spell at
Geelong, and then Melbourne in the seventies. One of
his treasures is a little silver medal, awarded bv the
Edinburgh Naval and Military- Academy, in ’49, for sketch-
ing from Nature. In ’65 he livened up the pages of Mel-
bourne Punch with some sketches entitled “ The Adven-
tures of Captain Achilles von Humboldt Blowhard ; being
an account of a trip to Wood’s Point.” Perhaps Panton’s
nest work was done in helping to found the Victorian
Academy of Arts, since merged into the Victorian Artists’
Society. In this he was associated with Louis Bouvelot,
Frederick Woodhouse, Hubert de Castella, Chester
Earles, J. S. Mackennal (father of sculptor Bertram), and
others. His portfolio will be priceless some day, contain-
ing as it does authentic and vivid sketches of scenes of the
golden days at Forest Creek, Bendigo, Wood’s Point, etc.
“ Dux” : “ J.A.C.’s” mention (B. 9/5/’O7)
of that jolly good fellow, the late Captain Jackson
Barry, calls to mind the time when he was Mayor
of Cromwell (M.L.), in which town he carried on
a butchery business. Hori Grffy’s visit was a
red-letter day for Cromwell, and a reception,
speeches, and other dreary conventionalities were
arranged. But Barry upset matters. He com-
mandeered the Governor, took him familiarly by
the arm, and led him off to see “ the finest blanky
pigs in the whole adjective country.” A crowd
of angry councillors followed the pair around pig
sties and cattle pens, and heard Barry confide to
his Excellency that “these blanky idiots behind
want me to wear a coat of vermin, or something
or other, now that I’m Mayor.” The reception
was quite a failure. Last time I saw “the
Captain ” was in Wellington, when he pressed
me to buy his book, “Ups and Downs,” which
he earnestly guaranteed as “the finest blanky
book ever invented /” It was invented.
If you have a bad cough don’t rely upon
ordinary soothing cough mixtures, but take
Angler’s Emulsion, which not only cures the most
obstinate cough but promotes appetite, aids di-
gestion, and benefits the entire system. In three
sizes, of all chemists.*
A MUSEUM OF THE NEXT GENERATION.
HORRIFIED MATRON : “ Come away, James! Don't attempt to look at the wicked things.”
W.A. Aborigines Protector Prinsep—next
to Railway Commissioner George the most
abused man in Westralia’s 975,000 square miles—
goes to England on twelve months’ leave, and
will then retire. Prinsep owes his comparative
affluence to Bigjohn. He was made Under-
secretary of Mines by Forrest without ever
having been down a shaft, and, when it became
necessary to modernise the department, Forrest
created him Protector of Aborigines, although
it isn’t certain that he had ever seen a nigger ex-
cept in pictures. Prinsep is president of the
Perth Art Society, and one of the few Westralians
whom old Governor Bedford has thawed to. A
cousin of his was Val Prinsep, the Academician,
who passed over recently.
Another belated story of ‘‘The Victorian
Four ”■—the comic Tory four who made such
an exhibition of themselves at the Senate election
of ’O3. Derham, of the Vic. Employers’ Federa-
tion, who was the still, strong man of the group,
secured a front room in the Victoria Coffee
Palace, Collins-street, for election night, so that
he might watch the returns as they were posted
outside the Argus office and consider their effect
on the crowd. At about nine, Derham turned up
at the Coffee Palace and was met by Mick the
night porter, a Socialist of the most bitter and
persecuting type. Mick didn’t know Derham,
nor did Derham know Mick but Mick greeted
the big man as politely as his election excitement
would permit. In reply to a question, he said
that the results were prime. “ And how are the
Victorian Four getting on for the Senate ? ” in-
quired Derham, blandly. “Getting on!” cried
Mick, ecstatically. “They’re getting done—
that’s how they’re getting on. Good enough for
the cows, too —trying to drag down the working-
man. They’re done like a dinner, Derham and
his push.” Derham was too. knocked over to
resent Mick’s honest criticism, and sadly dragged
his way upstairs to read the writing on the Argus
wall.
Cissie Zathar, the plaintiff in the Syrian
breach-of-promise case, which struggled along all
last week in Sydney, is a self-possessed, attractive
young woman, who looks neither the 24 years of
age she admits nor the 40 years of age alleged by
the other side. Cissie would probably be put
down as 30 by the majority of people. Like the
heroine of the “Song of Solomon,” she is dark
but comely, of pronounced Semitic type, and
altogether a pleasing sort of Rose of Sharon.
Cissie cannot read or write, even in her own
language, but she is a highly-intelligent woman
all the same, and probably the best witness that
the No. 2 Jury Court has seen for many a day.
Unlike most witnesses, she puts all her conversa-
tions in the first person, has never to be called to
order for transgressing the rules of evidence, and
in cross-examination answers so quickly and cer-
tainly qs to give the impression of truthfulness
and exactitude. When Cissie was asked why she
didn’t alarm the household when, as she alleged,
her fiance attempted to anticipate the marriage
ceremony, she caused a laugh in court by in-
quiring naively, "Why should I scream, when
he was going to marry me ? ”
Things are going badly with Dill Macky
these days. For years he has been a lecturer in
the N.S. W. Scotchbyterian Theological Hall, the
factory where they make the meenisters; but
lately there was trouble among his students.
The Assembly of the sect appointed a committee
to inquire into the students’ grievances, and that
committee (which was largely Dill’s own com-
mittee) unanimously recommended that Dill
should be “ relieved ” of the teaching of the
seniors and put; down to the ABC class. There-
upon Dill was insulted and resigned his lecture-
ship ; and now he leaves the Scarlet Woman and
the Cardinal alone for a minute to pitch into the
other lecturers, and charge them with being the
Scarlet Woman in disguise, or something like
that. “ There is now no one standing between
the students and the flood of rationalism which
is sweeping into our Church,” he shrieks. The
other lecturers reply that brother Dill is seeing
bogeys again, and that there wasn’t anything
about orthodoxy in the row at all; all that was
the matter was that the students said Dill didn’t
teach effectively, being too busy running after
the Scarlet Woman with a clod in his hand, and
they wouldn’t put up with him any longer.
“ Some little time ago,” says Mr. J. G.
Boyle, Kelmscott, W.A., “I was suffering from
a severe cold, which threatened to take a serious
form. Hearing so much about Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, I decided to give it a trial, and
to my great satisfaction was completely cured by
the time I had finished the first bottle.”*
About a stout gentleman who has left
many friends behind him :
The death of the Vic. Commandant, Colonel Ricardo,
in the hunting field, was due to his being what the
doctors call a man of full habit. His smart, commanding
deportment couldn’t conceal the fact that his weight-
some 16st. and more—was disproportionate to his height,
and because he carried too much flesh he was advised-
ill-advised—to go in for a severe course of horse-riding to
reduce his figure. He had formerly been a first-class
horseman, hut, owing to his bulk, the effort of taking his
mount over a fence caused him to break a small blood-
vessel in the brain. This accounted for his subsequent
fall from his horse, head foremost on to a stump, and
again it was his weight that told. A lighter man might
have survived the unlucky fall, but the massive colonel
fractured his skull so badly that he never recovered con-
sciousness. There are many stout middle-aged gentle-
men who play the giddy jockey without bringing them-
selves to grief, nevertheless they are distinctly out of
place in the hunting field. They should get themselves
into good condition by walking exercise before resuming
practice in the saddle.
GOOSE, HAWK , OR GAZEEKA?
Baron Rothschild declared that the attack being made
by President Roosevelt on the great railway corporations
of the United States, the income-tax and other problems
that are agitating Prance, and the Socialistic movement
in England, are all “killing the goose that lays the
golden eggs.” —Cable News.
THE PLUTOCRAT: “Stop it, now, and don’t be
foolish! Gant y’ see I’m the goose that lays
the golding egg? ”
THE DEMOCRAT : “ It’s no use talkin’, sonny.
Y’ can’t get a goose-skin t’ fit a hawk pro-
perly. Besides, geese ain’t so expensive t’ keep
as you are, and they ain’t in the habit of
eatin’ their own eggs; but, anyhow, I just
want t’ point out that you didn’t lay the
blessed earth! ”
A most peculiar jury (called to mind while
the personnel of Paddy Crick’s 12 good men and
true was under discussion one day outside Sydney
Criminal Court) was that which led to the con-
viction, over 30 years ago, in Parramatta, of
Sculptor Lorando Jones for blasphemy. The
jurymen that found Jones guilty (they did the
deed without leaving the box) were all B’s—Bell,
Benson, Bettington, Booth, Braddick, two Ber-
gins, two Byrnes, and three Browns. They all
swore on the Bible, and Buchanan appeared for
the defence.


WINTER
ANTHONY
FASHIONS
AT
HORDFRN»S\
No. 1003—Ladies’ Black Panama Voile Skirts, all sizes,
length 38 to 45 in., waist 23 to 32 in., 15/9.
Anthony Horderns'
ENORMOUS TRADE is Protected
at Every Point by
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
which extend from the Heart of the Fortress
that Anthony Hordern and Sons hold against
all comers, right away and round to the most
remote outposts, against attack, however
fierce and persistent.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
have proved Invulnerable. There is Not a
Weak Spot in their structure, not a Loop-
hole or a flaw, through which the keenest
enemy could fire An Effective Shot. Con-
tinuing the warlike metaphors, TONS OF
SHOT AND SHELL have been hurled from
Besiegers’ Guns, but Every Shot fell short,
and Every Shell was shoddy.
Absolutely Impregnable are
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
To Say all this is One Thing, to Prove It is
another. We Say These Things Every Day,
We Prove Their Truth to every person Who
Enters our Store.
w m
W'-m
■
/mm
,
No-1028—Black Voile Skirts, 18/9. Black Cashmere Skirts, 15/9.
All sizes, 38 to 45 in., waist 23 to 32 in.
V
1
4459
3*
Ife
a
446
4045
-
No. 4459—Colored Fancy Mollcton Flannel-
ette Gowns, newest patterns, light and dark
colors, 6/9. Similar designs, S/9, tO/6.
No. 4467 —French Flannel Gowns, brimmed
Silk Embroidered fancv trimming, Navv and
Cardinal, 10/6, 23/6,
No. 4446—Colored Fledgling 1 Gowns, newest
colors, trimmed Wool and Silk trimming,
29/6. Kiinona style, 24/6.
No. 4045—Colored French Flannel Empire
Gowns, newest colors, trimmed fancy
Galon, 27/6.
Anthony Hordern O. Sons,
Only Universal
Pro-Mi tiers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


By Special Jlppointment to
is Maj e sty The King.
“ Goutez et Comparez. ”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
- “graVrnette^
i; c L Are the Ideal Rubrics
tlOl\ f6r
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 11, 1907.
My Dear Akini,—
The trouble in Portugal over the stout King
who refuses to pay his debts may yet open
the glad vista of a stiddy job for a royalty who is
known personally to many Australians. Prince
Miguel, the Pretender to the throne of the little
roadless kingdom, was out here three years ago, and
put up at the Union Club as the Duke of Braganza.
A son—whose incognito, or alias , or alibi, or what
not, was Count de Neiva —accompanied him, and
wrought much havoc in pigeon-slaying, poker-
playing and other elevated circles. Society has
never found out exactly why these two elevated
folk came to Australia, but they were said to have
some dark and bulky purpose in view. One
proposition is that they put up at the Union Club
to be near Nicholas Willis’s office. Portugal is
their improvement lease if they can get it.
A passing incident in the Syrian alleged breach-
of-promise case, wherein comely Cissie Zathar
demands £lOOO from Moses Hanna, is the state-
ment of old Father Hanna as to why the lady did
not marry Joseph Abood. According to Dad
Hanna’s story, Joseph Abood wanted a wife, and
thought Cissie Zathar might do. So when she
came down to Sydney, Joseph Abood saw
her. “He gazed upon her, and then went from
the shop. ” Whether Cissie denies the story or
not, and whether it is true or not, it remains on
record as a description of the Syrian way of in-
specting the goods, as related in simple phrase by
•old Joseph. Apparently in Syria an appoint-
ment is made with he goods; the prospective
buyer calls and looks in the countenance of the
property; and if he is nit satisfied he just goes
away and leaves the job lot standing there. He
doesn’t even shake the hand of the article.
Since elbow sleeves became the rule for morn-
ing, noon, and night, long gloves have been a very
expensive necessity. Now the reaction is about
to set in. It has begun already in Paris, where
the sleeves of the mighty and the flighty are once
more to the wrist, and gloves are conspicuous by
their absence. To be guilty of wearing gloves is
to provoke a smile of horror. “ What ! are your
hands, then, so dirty that you must cover them ? ”
All the same, the no-gloves fashion is hardly
worth considering. The glove goes away for a
short change, and comes back with renewed vigor,
like Aunt Mary’s rheumatism, or the lost cat.
New spring models in millinery are already
lurking in certain milliners’showrooms in Sydney.
Some of them are expected to be worn at Miss
Kelso King’s wedding, this month. That will
be an evening function, and very hatty and
dressy. New hats will be off the face. The
pent-house lurch is “out.” “ Matinee Coronets”
are waiting to be worn. They are circles of straw,
with drooping tips or plumes, or rings of flowers.
Anyhow, they have not a sign of crown. The
“Peter Fan” model is a fez-like, close-fitting in-
cident, with tiny flowers on its brimless circu-
larity. Big Dolly Yarden kinds of head-gear will
have their day, so the authorities assert. In
etcetera novelties the “kimono belt” is in the
van. One I saw was of wide, hand-painted
ribbon. The whole decoration is in one—one
problem. (Can't think of a more descriptive
word.) There are the belt, and braces, and sleeves.
Worn over a single net-blouse in white or black
the effect ought to be ripping. The “sleeve”
of the kimono belt is only alleged. It is really
an armhole of the silk, although the wearing of
an “ armhole ” sounds like a confusion of terms.
Also, it vaguely recalls the Homan father who
bequeathed to his Bacchanalian eldest son the
keyhole, and nothing else. He said that he had
often seen the young man searching for it in the
small hours, with an intensity that suggested that
he wanted it more than anything else on earth.
Hugh Ward talks seriously of settling in
Sydney—“the most charming city on earth.”
Mrs. Hugh will probably take up the work of a
musical conservatorium here. She sings occa-
sionally in Sydney now, but the occasions never
seem to be advertised ; at any rate, I never hear
of them until there is nothing left to he said,
except that I wish I had been there. No matter
how earnestly I snatch at the greased forelock of
time in this matter, it always slips.
At the Fresh Air League ball the gowning of
two young Hordern Missuses took the vote : Mrs.
A. G. and Mrs. A. S. Hordern. They are
cousins, or some such, by marriage, to the only
Sam. They have been here a few months, and
the frocks they’ve sprung on Sydney are abso-
lutely hurrah. In fact, they are hip-hip-hurrah.
Sky-blue cripe and lace don’t sound much, hut
the artistry of the fashioning made the frock look
everything that was desirable in human covering.
The wearer of the gown had vine leaves in her
hair. This must not be read in the Ibsenish sense
—the leaves were artificial, and worn as orna-
ments. Ivory satin, and hand-painted chiffon
blue satin, and white lace were employed in the
make-up of Mrs. A. S. Hordern’s triumph. A
large bunch of debutantes was presented to the
Governor and Miss Rawson. Mrs. Harry Vale,
back from her honeymoon, also came in for the
vice-regal bow and complimentary word. The
iball was, as usual, a mighty financial success.
Under the significant title “ Honeyed Husks,”
the Saturday Review dropped hot ashes on the
programme of entertainment for the Premiers of
Greater Britain. It said : “We are playing right
into the hands of those, whoever and wherever
•they may be, who want to see the assembly of
1907 end in smiles and cigar smoke.” Mr.
Deakin’s phrase (a protest against the secrecy of
the Conference), “little precis slipped out day
by day between some trembling crevice,” seems
to be generally acclaimed as a winged phrase.
It is not flattering to other nice young women
with the extraneous Premiers, this starring of
Miss Botha ; also Miss Botha’s charm of manner,
her face, her frocks, her photographs. Even
Henry Lucy (or William Amelia, whichever it is)
drivels about her in the S.M. Hebald. She’s the
only bud on the bush, according to all accounts.
Yet Miss Aileen Ward, of Maoriland, is reckoned
a beauty, and has another precious gift—a Voice.
The London Symphony orchestra gave a special
concert in honor of the Premiers. Sir Alexander
Mackenzie conducted his own overture “Bri-
tannia,” and Dr. Harriss, a Canadian composer,
his own “Coronation Mass, Ed. VII.” Com-
menting on the programme, a noted English
critic (Arthur Symons) asked : “Why should our
colonial guests have been offered first a specimen
of our bad music and then, at much greater
length, a specimen of theirs ? ‘ Britannia ’ is
noisy and meaningless . . . The Mass begins with
an overture which seems to be the overture to a
ballet. . . dull prosings . . . destitute of religious
feeling.” This is the place where one is glad
Dr. Harriss is not Australian. Canada can keep
his Coronation Mass.
Mr. Goodwyn, general manager for Australia
of the Ocean Accident Co., is engaged to Miss
Vera Boyle, second daughter of Mr. C. J. Royle,
of Wahroonga.
Dr. Knight, LL.D., a nephew of ex-Chief
Justice Prendergast, of Maoriland, and his wife
have been in Sydney, visiting relatives and attend-
ing grand opera. When uncle Prendergast was
Lieutenant-Governor, nephew Knight acted as
private secretary.
Carreno’s clear-skinned, olive-toned face shows
no line. Her hair is greying, but her eyes have
the brightness of youth. Hers is perhaps the
strongest, most resolute woman’s face Sydney has
seen ; yet it has no suggestion of masculinity.
With all its strength it is a sweet face. As she
has lived fifteen years in the United States, and
before that, as a youngster, in London, she speaks
English like an Australian. At her headquarters,
in Berlin, she has pupils from every part of the
world. Americans predominate amongst the
foreign pupils. One Australian —Miss Hooper—
is from Sydney. The Carreno speaks of her as
“ gifted and charming.” Only three lessons a
day are given by the Mistress. The pupils are
prepared for the maternal star by daughter
Teresita (married in Melbourne last week), who,
if not herself a star, is at least a bit of star dust
or an asteroid.
The interior of the Town Hall was the most
glittering place in Sydney on Friday night, when
Carreno played Beethoven’s Emperor Concerto,
with the Amateur Orchestral Society. The
Rawsons and staff. Miss Wilson, Miss Vaughan,
and the Mayoral Hughes, all in their most costly
clothes, filled the unstrategie but vice-regal out-
post nearest the orchestral thunder. Sydney
society packed the rest of the hall and galleries.
The Carreno’s playing, like her facial expression,
proves iron will and subtle sweetness. She
thunders in big tone or orchestral effects, and anon
the lovely music (especially when she’s playing
Chopin) conies welling up with fairy delicacy
(honey and dew and seed pearls are in it). Criti-
cal men assert that women-players may interpret
Chopin poetically, but that they cannot do him
or Beethoven or Brahms full justice in an original,
illuminative sense. Still, these same men-things
do allow to one woman-player, and that’s
Carreno, the masculine attributes of nervous
force and imagination.
Piano-players will note the development of the
triceps muscles in the Carreno arms. Long con-
flict with a piano in the heavy-weight division has
done it.
Lady Northcote and a Saumarez-Smith brace of
girls were at the Carreno Saturday recital. The
Carreno gown was green sequined net over green.
Nary an ornament did she wear, and she came
to her work like a gentlewoman going to pay the
gas bill in a hurry.
When Conried was about to produce “ Hansel
and Gretel ” in the Metropolitan Opera House, he
got Humperdinck, its composer, over from his
own Lagerland to conduct. Mr. Max Rowan
tells the yarn. He was there at the time. Hum-
perdinck, looking like a cabman or a third-rate
fiddler out of a job, arrived at the Opera House.
For twenty minutes or so, door-keepers and flun-
keys at various entrances “ fired ” Humperdinck.
His look, and his name, and his lack of English
made just the combination that a flunkey vjould
fire. The Sydney-side observer felt sure that he
had met the shabby person in foreign parts, and
that he was a Somebody in Something, and
suggested that his name, whatever it was, be
taken to Conried. That was done, and presently
Conried was entreating the composer to look upon
him as his special doormat.
Lady Northcote, two of the Saumarez Smith
girls, and Captain Christian-Martyr-on-the-grid-
iron Fyers, were at the matinee of “Hansel and
Gretel.” The fairy opera is produced only at
matinees to suit the children, who stay from it
with unanimity. Not half-a-dozen of the
knicltered or short-frocked persuasion were
present.
To-morrow (Wednesday) Alderman Allen
Taylor’s portrait will be presented to its original
by the State Governor. A little ceremony and
some afternoon tea will lift the proceedings out
of ordinary Wednesday dreariness. A dreary day
is Wednesday, half-way to nowhere, with the
shadow of washing day behind and the shadow
of Sunday in front.
Mr. Dalglish—whose mother was a de Lauret,
of Goulburn, and sister of Mrs. Ted Simpson—
last month wedded, in the Cold Land, a maiden
wearing the inspiring name of Caroline de Burgh
Purves. The event happened at the Brompton
Oratory. The bridegroom soldier is in the ultra-
smart Black Watch regiment. This family ap-
pears to have a habit of marrying into the R.C.
aristocracy of Britain; another brother, who
leads the life bucolic near his family’s
town of origin, espoused Miss Maxwell-Scott,
niece of a full-blown Duke—he of Norfolk,
to wit. Mrs. Dalgl ish -Bellasis (mother of
the Black Watch bridegroom) gave £30,000
to finish the dome of the Oratory. This is
not a current item, yet it can’t be called a stag-
nant one. Donations of 30,000 lovely sovereigns
keep green a long time, and this one won’t sink
into a sere and yellow circumstance till the
Oratory wants another dome.
Miss Clark, daughter of Justice Inglis Clark,
of Tasmania, is in Sydney, and is staying with
Mrs. Boultbee, of Mosman. She and another
nice girl pal from Hobart did Maoriland before
coming hereto bite our unrivalled atmosphere.
Many well-known Melbournians are in Sydney,
either for atmospheric reasons or on business’
or else because they want to meet somebody here’
or because they want to avoid somebody over
there, or for some other motive. Glancing up
from my bit of cereal at the luncheon table of a
consequential hotel, I saw Mr. Judkins (looking
like a Cupid of 40), Mr. “Deeds” Fitchett,
Minister Swinburne, Mr. George Allen, and a
distinguished Melbourne editor man (who bristles
if you put his name in print), all feeding the
simple life. Mrs. Fred McEvoy (a calamitous
mushroom hat, trimmed with the very latest
French pen-wipers in art shades, couldn’t detract
from her prettiness) is another visitor. The
“Dick” Rowes (she a very fair and handsome
Circumstance, who has pleased Sydney in a
white cloth frock with blue facings) are still here,
but intend going to a station near Gundagai—a
place with an unspellable name as long as two
rabbits.
Mr. G. H. Reid had just finished luncheon.
He had had a lemon-squash, a liqueur with his
coffee, later a whisky and soda, still later two
more liqueurs, and he was on the verge of order-
ing another when an admirer interposed with
advice about mixtures. “Why,” said Mr. Reid,
settling his bulk back in his chair, “why, you
don’t think the drinks will ever meet, do you ? ”
Rev. .T. Hargrave, of St. Silas’ Anglican
Church, Waterloo, is retiring from active work
on the grounds of ill-health. He did one remark-
able thing in his life; he married the very sur-
prising George Dean, master mariner of a harbor
ferry boat, to Miss Seymour. And many results
followed that wholly unfashionable event. George
Dean tried to poison his wife and failed. He was
tried, and sentenced to death, and then held on
further inquiry to be not guilty, and released ;
and then he was proved guilty, and got a long
sentence for saying he wasn’t; and one or more
of his relations went mad, and one solicitor was
struck off the rolls, and two solicitors were tried,
and other things happened. The mild old parson,
who set all this going, had no idea how loaded it
was.
A curious tale of the strenuous life that a woman
may lead is that which has just drifted in from
Adelaide. The lady was behind the bar, and
the story goes that she went to the office of a male
person, at midnight, to get some books. She
said he drugged her, and that she only woke long
afterwards to find herself deserted, locked in,
and robbed of her jewellery—-£l4 worth. On the
other hand, he said that he bought the
jewellery off her, and that she wanted it back,
and was so wild when she failed to recover her
gauds that she burned down the office. The jury
believed the lady’s statement, but either way it
reads like a case of leading the strenuous life. If
it had been proved that the lady burned down the
office in her wrath, the event would fairly rank
with the case of Samson, who pulled down the
Philistine theatre.
Mr. Glencross Swift recently left for foreign
parts “to stay with Charlie Heidsieck.” Charles
is one of the Trustees of the Rheims Cathedral.
Whether this is an honor to Charlie or to the
Cathedral the man in the Australian street won’t
know. (To me it sounds very like being church-
warden to the Mosque of Omar.) The Jackdaw
of Rheims is better known to the bloque on the
highway than the cathedral of the same name.
But the Swift party—he was telling, dejectedly, a
Sydney woman of what was ahead of him. A
gorgeously liveried footman will bring him a pint
bottle of the champagne at 7’30 a.m. At lunch a
quart of the same bubble will lie at his elbow.
And after the meal the host will say : “Ve vill
now go to ze zellar to taste ze vines to suit Aus-
tralee.” “ Really,” said Swift’s listener, “I must
go home and sleep off this conversation. It has
gone to my head.”
Prof. MacCallum was the examiner in this
story, and the examinee is now a Sydney barrister.
The Prof, asked the student for his reading of the
lines from Macbeth, “This my hand will rather the
multitudinous seas incarnadine, making the green
one red.” And the student, who hadn’t even
read the drama through, gravely answered, “ I
take it to be a prophetic utterance referring to
the Battle of the Boyne.”
I was idly turning over Whitaker’s Peerage
in search of something or other when I discovered
that there is in the United Kingdom a Baron
Newbottle. It is an old title —there have been-
Barons Newbottle for 316 years. Also there is a
Baron Kerr, of Newbottle. Now I understand
the feelings of that Scriptural person who called
himself a “servant” and wanted to “depart in
peace.” I could also depart more peacefully now
that I have found the lordly family of Newbottle.
Life is not all a blank.
A man writes this :
A new style of headgear for wimmen has arrived. To
the eye of a mere man, it looks very much like
an ordinary sou’-wester, although the material is
different, and it is usually of another color. It
has no front, but extends horizontally to the rear
for a considerable distance. The particular point
about it, however—a point which will make the
hearts of certain tradespeople to leap, as leaps the wild
rabbit upon the precipice—is that a large number of
little curls (price one guinea each, at the very best shops)
are stuck in to fill up the vacant space at the back, and
bulge there. This arrangement has a peculiar effect, as
though Miss had put on a hat too large for her, and had
been forced to fill up the space at the back with padding.
It is a noticeable fact that women with black hair prefer
to wear another kind of sun-guard, and chance being out
of fashion. It is the little yellow devil with the easily-
matched and curly locks that rushes the milliner with
her order for the up-to-date rig.
I wish my friends would stop sending me that
venerable wheeze about “ the widow’s mite.”
Since the Bible began to be read, and men began
marrying widows, every small man who espoused
a large widow has been called by his friends and
enemies “ the widow’s mite.” Then there is the
other joke about “ the widow’s might ” displayed
in capturing him ; and when a lady, reputed to
have a tombstone in the family, appeared in pan-
tomime, a genius came in personally with a harrow-
ing jest about “ the widow’s tights.”
Mrs. Harry Chisholm, of Goulburn, is in town
for the (alleged) winter, and has taken Mrs.
Arthur MacArthur’s house, in Alberto-terrace. A
well-known mansion that has recently changed
ownership is “Pomeroy,” at Potts Point. An
old identity—Mrs. Rundle—occupied it for many
years. She died recently. Mr. Julius Caro has
bought the place.
Messrs. Hadfield and Daplyn, the hon. treas.
and hon. sec. respectively of the fund for pur-
chasing Mr. Lister-Lister’s picture, “ The Golden
Splendor of the Bush,” rise simultaneously to
inform subscribers that the trustees of the
Gallery have accepted the picture with great
enthusiasm. It will be formally handed over to
them next Friday afternoon.
From my Brisbane correspondent:
The festivities of the North proved too much for the
Chelmsford dame. She unable to participate in the
joys of tb£ Charters Towers reception, and after that she
threw up the sponge, and it never came down again.
She returns to Brisbane, accompanied by the Du Cane,
for rest and repairs, before the coming of the Northcotes.
Her frail-looking husband, much bucked up by his
junketing, will continue the tour alone, and captivate
the hearts of tropical girls with his youthful smile.
The town this week has been full of three kinds of par-
sons, and the air full of synod. There was the parson of
the Bush Brother variety, who dresses in tweeds, smokes
a cherry-wood pipe, and has an affection for the wilds.
There was the bleating;, town-bred Judkins, full of city
mission and gloomy detail of the “ fallen.” And, lastly,
there was a drove of newly-arrived, moon-faced, mos-
quito-bitten lambs, straight from the Oxford fold, fired
with a burning enthusiasm to save the degenerate colonial.
Lastly there was the Archbishop—one of him—who in-
dulged in quite an array of little jokes just before the
plate went round. He told how, in one town where he
flattered himself that his appearance had made a real
impression, he overheard the youngest old maid telling
her aunt that the bishop was “such a very plain man.”
Also, that the back-blockers laughed at his legs (which
was a shame, as he really is not Chippendale). He inti-
mated, however, that he did not object to the title of
“ bloke.”
On Saturday afternoon there was the usual reception at
gloomy Bishopsbourne, where the chief Reverend, ham-
pered by a lack of garden seats or dining-room chairs,
gave tea and fruit salad (both tepid) to about 600 good
friends of the church, many of whom grew quite weary
leaning against the wall. There were not even enough
curates to go round.
Last week Ken Mackenzie, Lieutenant in the Common-
wealth Army, heir-apparent of a local banker, became
the fortunate husband of Gladys Hill, a placid little lady,
who looks the part of one of the 20 love-sick maidens, but
who is in truth a practical little body, and calculated to
gladden any man’s premises.
Merchant John Arthur and his second hope, Violet of
the unruly locks, are on the road from England by the
Commonwealth. Violet, the self-willed, has given her
hand and good warm heart to a person of the name of
Campbell, and the knot is to be tied on the bride’s
arrival at Adelaide.
It is said that a bride who recently suffered from
bruises, served out with a lavish strap by her husband,
has seen her lawyer, but what he said to her is not
known. Anyhow, she has gone to your sinful but lovely
city to train as a nurse.
The death of Victorian Military Commandant Ricardo
recalls the almost forgotten episode of how the eldest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Blakeney met her
death at the Ricardo station at Fassifern. Mounted by
her host upon an old racer, she lost nerve when he bolted.
After screaming madly for assistance she fainted, and fell
out of the saddle, striking her head upon a stump. Then
the scared animal drag-ged her along till life was extinct.
It was almost exactly the kind of death that Ricardo
met himself.
Yours Affectionately,
ARENEL
A good idea comes from a Maoriland
correspondent of Sydney Herald—that Maori-
land should combine with Australia to build a
little navy. The destinies of M.L. and Australia
are in the same boat,'and they will probably have
to face danger together one day.
At the inter-State Conference a resolution
was carried that the Federal legislation against dis-
honest secret commissions should be extended to
the States. The resolution was put “ without dis-
cussion.” But it will be a long time before some
of the States follow the honest Federal lead in
this matter.
Mothers need have no hesitancy in giving
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to the little ones.
It is perfectly safe.*
The recent elections showed up once more
the superfluity of the Vic. House of Rich Land-
lords. One member was wanted for each of the
17 provinces. Ten of the 17 seats were uncon-
tested. Of the other seven, four were metropoli-
tan districts, and in these only 31, 36, 30, and 25
per cent, of the electors voted. In the country
the interest was deader still. At dozens of poll-
ing places but two or three votes were recorded,
while one booth was kept open the statutory nine
hours, with all the necessary officials in attend-
ance, that one solitary voter might mark his
paper. And even then his vote w T as informal.
The only argument needed to convince you
of the value of Angier’s Emulsion for coughs and
lung affections is a trial. It is used by doctors
the world over. Send 4d. for postage to the
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack-street,
Sydney, for a free sample bottle, and give it a
trial.*
, Daniel White, who, 30 years ago, helped
to found the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures,
and who has been treasurer of the institute
for 21 years, was entertained recently at a
smoke concert. Nat Levi (who was present) and
Mr. White are the fathers of the Chamber. But
Nat Levi has been more in the public eye. He it
was who beat the great R. D. Ireland, Q.C., when
the latter, having accepted the Attorney-General-
shipin the Heales Ministry, went up for re-election
for Maryborough. Up to that time there had
been none of the seed of Abraham in the Vic-
torian Parliament.
Sydney breathes more freely now that
Professor Starr Jordan has left it in peace. This
Yankee oratorical high-flier, whose real name is
surely Star Jawer, inflicted innumerable lectures
on various public bodies, none of which lectures
taught anything; he told countless “funny
stories,” which were either moss-grown or stupid ;
and for “eloquence” he wasn’t even in Dan
O’Connor’s class. Why are these wearisome
speakers imported from abroad? If there is a
demand for jaw with frills on it, Neild is still
with us, and threatening to write another book of
Jawbone poems.
The timely use of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will prevent pneumonia.*
Melb. Argus puts it gently, like this :
“British manufacturers have been driven, in a
manner, by the strenuous competition of foreign
countries, to cheapen the cost of production by
the use of adulterants.” But the Argus. fiscal
policy teaches that the strenuous competition of
foreign countries is a magnificent thing, and that
it brings all manner of blessings in its train, and
that anyone who objects to it is a Protectionist
and a fool. We were never told before that Free-
trade and strenuous foreign competition led to
fraud, lying, and poisoning—at least, the Argus
never mentioned it before.


'roRTHejjj^NCIIIG
SEASON
W
>vS
/A
V
h
V
w
00.
Tt.
o
k
i%
a
ve
rv
l^s
Cors
vf<>cl
c\
Ask For
&v<s
CB^
9ft
6y
APPOltf^
to His Majesty King Edward Vll.
r
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
UPTON'S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to thie
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (SI Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
srtl
AND
Supporters
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict oi Three Continents.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 10, 1907.
Mt Dear Yarrie.—
What’s the matter with our Benedicts and
Beatrices ? They honeymoon in boarding-houses,
set up their domestic gods on Mrs. Todgers’ altar,
bring up their offspring under her eye. Later,
they quarrel, and live in separate hash-turrets, and
divorce each other, and marry again on hash-
tower principles, and in the end lose all idea of
living in houses of their own. Do the hash-houses
reap a harvest of coin and scandal ’cos Ben thinks
Bee incapable of filling the most becoming duties
in the world, and because his appetite sadly mis-
trusts her ? Or is it that the blessed girl jibs at
the prospect of a little responsibility and care ?
Whatever the reason, it’s a foolish procedure.
Nothing incubates wifely scepticism like a circle
of interested and unoccupied cats; and nothing
vitiates husbandly tastes more than the social diet
offered him by a houseful of “paying guests” (or
owing guests). Romance is throttled by a newly-
married fear of ridicule. Effort is discouraged by
the lack of domestic incentive. And, more
serious still, figures become submerged in fat, the
fat of laziness. Oh, dear young friends, do be
courageous ! Start housekeeping on a deficiency
of floor-coverings and cash, rather than risk your
souls in the lazy snobocracy of a hash-foundry.
“ Parsifal ”is advertising well in Adelaide. A
saved soul (no connection at all with the manage-
ment), signing himself “A Young Man Grate-
ful,” acknowledges his redemption in S.A.
Register. He alleges that previous to seeing
“Parsifal” he had made an appointment of a
wicked nature, with sinister intent. On witness-
ing the spectacular sermon, he saw the error of
his ways; and no longer considered himself justi-
fied in keeping the said engagement. He didn’t
say whether lie intended warning the girl that
she needn’t trouble to come out that evening, or
whether he meant to leave her catching cold
indefinitely to no purpose at a street corner, while
he watched Missus Brune point a moral with a
plump leg clad in fleshings.
The two loving youngsters who eloped from
Brighton have at last sent cheerful and casual
word of their whereabouts to two sets of indignant
and anxious parents. They are both just in their
teens. For a week or so before the elopement
girl chums had been remarking that “she is
wearing a wedding ring,” but they set it down as
a sentimental joke on her part. As a matter of
fact, the little secretly-wed one was just waiting
her boy-lover’s word to “ fly,” and when he told
her to fly she flew. He also flew. They are
coming back to be kissed and forgiven—or
spanked. Why not spanked ?
A listener repeats an ominous conversation
which was voiced while the late Colonel Ricardo
was selecting a mount to carry him to the hunt
where he met his death. Talking with his wife
and Colonel Johnson, he remarked, in answer to
some sally : “Well, and if I should be killed on
Monday, I’ll go out in an easy, quick fashion that
won’t give anyone trouble, nor hurt me much.
What more can a man want ?” The poor fellow’s
end occasions honest regret on the part of all who
knew him, and great is the sympathy for his
widow. She was the brightest and most likeable
of military wives.
The late Colonel leaves two small daughters
(besides grown-up children of his former marriage).
The present Mrs. Ricardo was a Brisbane girl,
Miss Ina Thomson, daughter of Dr. Thomson,
of the Northern capital. The hearty old sur-
geon, her father, was for many years chief
medical authority in Bananaland.
The unwholesomeness of the habit of attending
the other fellow’s funeral (it is also unwholesome to
attend your own, but, alas, unavoidable) wasproved
again by the sudden death of Colonel Kelly last
week. He attended Colonel Ricardo’s funeral on
Thursday, apparently in the best of health, came
back, took to his bed, and died. To go to a funeral
is to undertake, as a rule, a long, wearisome, nerve-
racking journey, under the most depressing of
conditions. Sometimes the weather is too cold ;
sometimes it is too hot, and when the day is
really fine, going to a funeral is the worst sort of
use you can put it to. A safe rule of life is to go
to no funeral while you are alive, and to only one
when you are dead.
The fear of what the world will say almost
amounts to a disease, with some people. A pair
of Melbourne parents—a very Proper couple—
have a son who recently married a barmaid living
in another State. The damsel’s father owned the
pub in which she toiled, but he didn’t approve of
paying for outside help when he had it in the
family, so the girl was naturally a beer-puller
with the best of them—a barmaid ! When this
terrible news reached the young man’s family,
they were much put about, not being aware that
the young lady’s papa was the landlord of the pub.
However, it was decided to put the best face on
matters, and, it being the young man’s intention
to live in his wife’s State, it was decided to
spread abroad the intelligence that their hopeful
had married a clergyman’s daughter ! This
announcement was received in certain quarters
with rather more astonishment (not to speak of
amusement) than the family expected, notably
among the young men who knew John. What
they couldn’t understand was how any clergyman
tolerated that wild and whooping young man long
enough for John and the daughter to become
really acquainted.
Nurses at the big hospitals are making moan
about a new rule added to the already long and
stringent “ theatrical ” list (such a grim tragedy-
theatre is theirs). A nun-like cowl is added to
their dress—worn to cover every bit of hair, even
to the eyebrows—and almost covering the mouth.
The warmth of the theatre and the scent of
anaesthetics are sufficiently trying, and often
cause faintness. With this new harness these
things are appalling. One point of objection with
the nurses is that the doctors are not forced to do
likewise. Many doctors will not sacrifice their
pampered moustaches to the barber’s razor—and
“ their moustaches are worse than our eyebrows ”
cry the indignant Nightingales. Um—perhaps !
It would be a good topic for discussion whether
men’s moustaches or women’s eyebrows have done
more mischief since Man began to be ashamed of
the stump vestige of his tail.
The Musical Society rather spread itself to
welcome Madame Albani on Saturday night.
There was no padding to the party—just musicians,
Canadians and press. The prima donna, hale
and hearty, swept to her place of honor a vision
of emerald green velvet, ermine and lace, with a
diamond cross flashing on that white throat of
hers. Mr. Albani was with her—good Mr. Gye
who, on his own, doesn’t give you a bit the idea
of. just being somebody’s husband. Mildred
Jones, of the contralto voice, towers over her
party. The head she rears is crowned with such
glorious chestnut hair that one can forgive it for
rearing. Myrtle Meggy, the pretty and dimpled
Sydney girl,” takes Melbourne comfortably, and
helps, with thd three nice young men of the com-
pany, to give you the idea that it is a bright
combination.
Marie Hall, of the demure, hipless contour,
clothes her quaint flatness in garments of unob-
trusive but real artistic merit. At her first re-
cital, she fiddled in a greeny gown, with belt and
skirt-border of darker velvet. There were gar-
lands of pale spring-flowers, built of embossed
chiffon, clinging to the sheeny folds, and alto-
gether the costume, though too “ old ” and staid
for its small, serious wearer, was worth study.
Marie’s smooth, lovely “tone” suggests a singing
brook flowing across the strings of her Strad.
Those who sigh for typhoons and tornadoes of
harmonic emotion find the recitals just a little
missish; not tame exactly, but missish.
This is “Tryphena” from London: —
It’s a thieving nation. Every tube-lift and ’bus has the
injunction, “ Beware of Pickpockets—Male and Female.”
The effect of this proclamation can be imagined. Every-
one looks upon you as a pilfering cat, and you regard
every wretch in return as a prospective robber. Hence
the deadly cold air of suspicion that dwells in the solemn
face of the Londoner. For it is a smileless phiz. I perch
up at the side of a bell-toppered ’bus-driver and quiz the
funereal procession of Strand and Fleet-street pedestrians.
The Jehu jokes. He’s the one unprofessional humorist in
Fogtown. Every other jester gets a mighty fine salary
for rouging his nose and being funny for a few minutes
at the music-halls. But the nation grins not—neither does
it roar. Even the tinted Venus, who prevails at the cafes
and in the theatre promenades and in Hyde Park, masks
her wickedness in a cold-storage stare. All expression is
painted, or enamelled, out of her face. She seems to be
trying to look like a flattered portrait of herself, and to
deceive the bulk of the multitude into believing she’s a
languid aristocrat. The bulk doesn’t believe any such
thing. Suspicion again. The real Vere de Vere has an in-
variable companion—a fat poodle in fancy rig. If it doesn’t
happen to be a poodle, it’s an emaciated Johnnie looking
like a devilled bone. Really the pup is a more cheerful
sight. I saw a ducal dame, at the Army and Navy Stores,
trying a hyacinth blue ribbon on her pug’s neck. It
didn’t please her. She selected a pastel tone, and the
pet snarled, at which sign of intelligence she kissed his
dirty little ear. On another afternoon, I saw a motoriste
pull up at a theatre door and unearth a toy terrier from
her furs. He shivered in the cutting air, and started a
sneeze. These aristocratic yelpers are very artful.
Madame searched in the terrier’s velvet coat (it fitted like
a glove) and took out a lace hanky, the size of a tram-
ticket, and with this she dried the terrier’s wet nose.
I walked on, half-dazed, till a male philanderer pinched
my elbow. I gripped my bag of small cash possessions,
and fled. There’s always a male hanging loose about
ready to ogle a girl. This one had probably been
ogling while I was thinking the deep dog-thought’s
quoted above, and had pinched my funny-bone to draw
my attention to his ogle.
The name that stands tallest in Anglo-Australian stage
records is that of Alice Crawford. Last night, at a ban-
quet, I heard sub rosa that Sir Charles Wyndham and
Richard Harding Davis were suppering the Bendigo
dazzler after her “ Twelth Night” show, and then taking
her on to a large Ducal reception. And Alice has reached
a period in her grease career when she talks of her Art
and her genius to big theatre guns at the dinner-table.
“ I not only had good notices in Berlin. I was the only
principal to get any at all in most of the papers,” she told
a supper muster of dizzily important people. Alice is
arrogant these days, and actually allowed to be so by
virtue of her beauty and illuminating genius. She re-
fuses to wear dresses prescribed by Manager-Actor Tree,
and orders others. He doesn’t demur even. “ Alice will
have her way,” he explains petulantly. And she does.
It’s marvellous to find the Bendigo recitress of several
summers ago having her way with one of the most
dominating theatre-chiefs in this hub.
I had my first view of Alice, after a gulf of years, at a
gay little supper dance at the Grafton galleries. One
goes in bunches of fojir and six there, after the theatre,
and two-steps and waltzes (Boston fashion) into the small
hours of the Sabbath. It’s the smart rendezvous of the
theatrical and the high-class Bohemienne. One charming
Sydney grass-widow bore me along in her party. I found
her in her emerald spangled chiffons the most chic and
juvenile two-stepper in the whirling throng. Mostly
Madame Bohemia is plain, painted, passAe, but dressed
divinety, and you feel the Johnnie who whirls her is
merely dancing with Costly Clothes. The woman is
nothing. It’s the Dress.
This night, Alice Crawford wore a cerulean-blue crepe-
de-chi ne Empire rig—more of a drapery than a dress.
She lounged among a group of buzzing males—sullen,
handsome, distrait. The wife of a theatrical manager
pointed her out. I gaped. The whole character of the
face has changed. It is heavy, very handsome, but
sullen. The laughing, boisterous, cheeky Bendigonienne
has become a top artiste of the London boards at the ex-
pense, evidently, of her exuberant nature. Hard work,
competition, and final victory have resulted in a per-
sonality strong, magnetic, but in no way sweet. Alice
has, for a certainty, tasted the bitterness of a London
struggle.
Talking of galleries. I’ve looked on the famous resur-
rected Raphael canvas at the Dore Galleries. The asser-
tion is that the masterpiece is a genuine Raphael. It is
a masterpiece, and bears a distinct and unmistakable
likeness to all the other Raphael productions. “ The
Holy Family ” is the subject, but the group of figures is
not so wonderful as the coloring, which is rich and inspir-
ing. On no canvas but a Raphael will you find the wonder-
ful blues of the Virgin Mary’s robe, or the deep, deep,
bruised strawberry tone of the neighboring Saint’s
draperies. It’s a banquet of color. You can’t leave it.
You can’t conceive the effect of deep color till you see
this Raphael gem.
I want to see some more resurrected Raphaels. One’s
mind wants some art glory of the kind now and then in
this Big Smoke, to clear the mental dust-bin.
Lawyer Whiting’s youthful-looking spouse and
their two pretty daughters jaunted Sydney ward,
last week, on their way to Japan. This is the
girls’ first foreign jaunt; but they probably know
their own Australia better than any other Mel-
bourne girls. Their mother has made an ener-
getic programme of inland tours for the much-
indulged darlings, instead of the usual rush to
England. They are smart and pretty girls. One
does really clever art in black and white. The
other has a curve verse-ward.
The furs are very head-and-taily this season.
Instead of one’s fox fur terminating in one modest
little head, the correct thing is to dot them, fore
and aft and all over, with decapitations like a
Bluebeard’s room. And the many tails make the
girls look like Rabbit-O.
Gaston Mervale (whose real name off-stage is
Mistowski) belongs to c a very clever family. His
father is a Professor of Science and Languages
somewhere in Fog City, and a brother, Alf
Mistowski, makes a meteor-like appearance at
Australian Universities once a year as musical
examiner for English Trinity College. For this
work Alfred draws the nice little salary of £25 a
w’eek, plus expenses. He is also a composer of
some note, and that helps to eke out his humble
crust and keep the wolf off the verandah.
Warrnambool had a stirring wedding party last
week, and quite a many Melbournites trekked
down to the town that has missed the ’bus, and
helped in the marriage of Majah Vicars-Foote s
jolly little daughter Florrie to Mr. John
McKenzie, of “Calrossie,” down Yarram way.
All the round-about station folk came long dis-
tances for the shivoo, the Ardleigh, Anderson,
and Summers clans in the lead. The setting of
the ceremony was violet—millions of violets made
the decorations/
A mating which drew a crowd to St. Patrick’s
Cathedral on Wednesday, 29th, was that of Mr.
Tom McManamny, who is engaged in the sheep in-
dustry at Coonamble (N.S.W.), and Miss Daisy
Roche, of Ascot daughter of the Health
Inspector of that ilk. The bridegroom is brother
of a doctor of divinity, nephew of a.bishop, and
a native of Ballarat. They honeymoon on the
Blue Mountains.
One mayoral ball is usually very like another,
but Hawthorn broke out of the rut. The hall was
fair to look upon, decked out in pastel shades ut
blue and pink ; and the stage was a triumph. An
imposing flight of shallow steps, crimson carpeted,
led up from the ballroom to the platform. From
the said platform you might wander at will into a
fairy dell, hung with the multi-colored lights of the
journalist’s dream. One of the many scintillating
mayoresses evidently felt soulful. She wandered
into that fairy dell, and almost instantly found her-
self set alight by a fairy lamp. Councillor Riddell
rushed to the rescue, and averted the panic that
would probably have arisen if the municipal lady
had rushed through the hall wrapped in flames
eight feet high. Just now, with all the mayoral
balls coming on, a conflagration of mayoresses
would be an awful calamity to suburban society.
The timely councillor damaged his hands pretty
considerably, and the fair dame he rescued is much
concerned thereat.
Enthusiasts were surprised into a trip to G'oade
Island, the bottle works, and thereabouts, last
Saturday. The Yarra doesn’t run to width in
any of its aristocratic reaches, so the Australian
University crews had to wrestle for victory down
Footscray way. The smell isn’t nearly as fortify-
ing as of yore. In fact, they’ve improved the
good old familiar aroma right out of the Yarra.
But the setting to the race was not edifying.
Even the glimpse of golf links in the distance
failed to create enthusiasm. Some big club or
another plays away down here, within sight of
nothing much except the Quarantine Station.
Somebody told me—he was a member, and ought
to know—that the links are most accessible; you
go to Footscray and take a cab from there !
Ralph Straus, who is a novelist, a bibliophile,
a zoologist, and an Englishman, is now in Mel-
bourne. He came over the water because he
heard that Australia is a wonderful country, and
remains for a while because he realises that it is.
He will spend what time he may accumulating
data and information concerning Australian poli-
tics and society, aspirations and achievements.
Apart from his aims, Ralph Straus is a boyish
personage with a predilection for loud socks and
unusual overcoats. He sounds ingenuous, looks
immature, and declares quite youthful admiration
for our girls. “They’re delicious to look upon,
delightful to talk with. They’re so debonair;
so unaffected—and what a large proportion of
’em are more than ordinarily intelligent ! And
Australia itself—why, you live on the Hub of the
Future!”
The Titian-haired maiden of the magnificent
black fox furs keeps much in evidence in the
highways and afternoon-tea ways of the city—
with her lordling in devoted attendance. (They
are so very tame when caught young.) This one
is quite nice and downy, and answers to its name
every time.
The University boat club thought it awfully
jolly of Prof. Spencer. He invited them all to
tea last Sunday, with a plentiful complement of
nice girl to meet them, and fixed with the very
smartest She caterer to look after the eat-withal.
(Mrs. Prof, is away holidaying.) There was par-
ticularly fine method in the frolicking madness,
as the University Ball was due on Monday night,
and the tea provided a convenient introduction
and programme-sneaking prelude.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Birthday Cup, postponed from Saturday to Mon-
day because the multitude declined to swim to the fray,
was a dark, deep, dreary disappointment, so far as the
frockocracy was concerned. The weather was uncet-
tain, and the gorgeous chiffony erections had to be re-
linquished in favor of the plain, hard-working coat and
skirt. Such millinery outbursts as transpired were
mostly dejected resurrections of last year’s poultry
feathers. Many of the usual race-gadders stayed firmly at
home by the fire, and only an occasional scion of the
landed gentry left the pursuit of the frolicsome sheep,
and swam the family motor to town with the chauffeur’s
eye just appearing above the slush. Some of the few
brilliant exceptions that dotted the blotted landscape
were Mrs. Bert Saunders, in a gorgeous cream cloth
garment, with pink roses and blue plumes in her smait
head-piece ; Miss Flossie Melrose, in old-rose cloth,
trickily faced with white, and a black picture hat ; Mrs.
Albert Gebhardt, in a glorious confection of royal blut,
bespattered with cream passementerie, and topped with a
green hat; Miss Shiela Deeley, smartly garbed in navy,
and some others too few to mention.
’Tis said that over 3000 people emulated the breathless
sardine, crowded in the Black Hole of its tin, and went
to Pirie-street Methodist Church the night Ada Ward
performed there. Adelaide looked upon the guileless
Ada as a species of religious comic opera, and, with
“Parsifal” raging at the Theatre Royal at the same
time, felt it was in great luck. But after that one great
upheaval the populace wavered between the rival shows.
Their “Parsifal” weighed down the scales against Ada’s
mortified bonnet and whirl of arms and denunciation, and
Adelaide’s shekels turned steadily tou'ardsthe Williamson
coffers. Ada left us in the middle of the week, and a few-
belated persons gathered at the station and sang a hymn
or two. On the whole, this city declines to take the
“saved one” seriously, but it thinks her a pretty good
show.
The Royal British Nurses’ Association sets its annual
ball rolling at the Town Hall on June 20th ; and the
whole medical profession, to say nothing of a horde of
mended and grateful patients, are expected to help the
affair along. Their Exes., and the Chief Judicial Ways,
and various Premiers, Mayors, and other small deer
patron the ball, and a strong committee is pondering
over the egg of some great scheme which will makeitthe
most resplendent spree of the century—if the egg doesn’t
addle.
The Semaphore Tennis Dance happens on June 28th,
and threatens to be the usual hilarious success.
A wedding that is to illumine the very near future is
that of Miss Louie Henderson and Dr. Magarey. “ The
Voice w'ill Breathe ” as usual.
Four nights and a matinee has Mary Ann Brune come
into her fortune at the Theatre Royal. Her species is
such an elusive rarity in South Aus. just now that all the
harassed marms of the place attended, in the hope of
seeing her expiate the sins of her class at the stake. And
instead they saw her come into a fortune, and leave off
even the little, incompetent Miryanning that she did,
and make one servant less in an already almost servant-
less land. All the sympathy of thed.c. was for Mary
Ann’s harassed missus ; if she had come in for a fortune
and her domestic help had been arrested for stealing a
plated spoon, the circle would have been pleased. This
State wants more domestic handmaiden much more than
it wants less rabbit, and it doesn’t care a straw about
Danysz.
The Adelaide Skating Club closed the Glaciarium door
in the public face on Friday last (7th), and invited the
very ultra and elect population to slither and fall. The
youthful and energetic members of society still cling to
the icy pastime, but they no longer slither in democratic
company. The skating club slides privately o’ Monday
nights, and now and then it invites those who are horri-
fied at the Labah pahty to an invitation affair. Two
energetic secretaries, Messrs. Willie Gunson and J. Gow,
manipulate the club and examine the credentials of pro-
posed guests, and those Who are suspected of being in-
sufficiently horrified at the Labah pahty are not asked.
Yours affectionately,
JOHNNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
f~PES
GrO TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagci), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free, by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.—
A
9
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,’
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Mei,bournk.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The N.S.W. Liberal and Reform A As.
wouldn’t wait for a nomination from Waverley
Branch because it included among its members
“a number vrao were opposed to the present
Government.” Therefore if you can’t accept
Carruthers, all Carruthers, and nothing but Car-
ruthers, you needn’t join the Chief Ass. or the
Branch Ass. or any other part of the animal.
THE INSECT AGAIN.
Mr. Forrest told them they must not forget that the
Commonwealth might take over the Post Office Savings
Bank. He (Mr. Carruthers) said, “God help the Com-
monwealth if it threatens us in that way.”—D.T.
Joseph (in an ominous voice): “ Youse just try
it on, that's all.”
The Sydney Daily Telegraph lias been
sending some poultry to England, and records its
“ arrival in bad order.” Just like the Stinking
Fish that paper is always exporting.
Another Ma State Grievance against the
Commonwealth ; it is the S.M. Herald that has
dug up this one :
There may be Ways of getting the debt safely out of the
reach of the capacious maw of the Federal authorities,
in spite of the power the Constitution gives it.
The dear old lady’s affection for her debt is very
pathetic. Evidently, she would rather have an
unpaid bill than her marriage lines any day.
Mr. J. Richmond, who knows Papua well,
and has wandered with a theodolite and an axe
over most of it, calls public attention to the hope-
lessness of effective development whilst the Com-
monwealth is so mean with its salaries. For a
surveyor-general there is now offered £450 a year,
without quarters. That won’t tempt a good man
to go out into the wilds.
The week’s arguments for Secession :
Since Federation the Australian drink bill has cost
£90,000,000 (J. Cook at Methodist Meeting, Sydney Town
Hall)-
and
The Birthday Honors list, when it does appear, will
probably be blank, as far as this State is concerned. It
is possible, however, that one or two gentlemen pro-
minent in the Federal arena will be included. (Sydney
Sunday Timks.)
One of J. Carruthers’ mean little ways of
being nasty to the Australian Government is to
abolish all concessions to the military on N.S.W.
railways. In time of war, the Federation has
power to take possession of the railways ; and
this should imply some right of consultation in
regard to military use in time of peace. But the
buzzing Joseph doesn’t see that, and smiles a
Quilpish smile as he makes himself disagreeable
to N.S.W. soldiers because they are under Fede-
ral authority.
Joseph Carruthers, at the Conference of
State Premiers, became such a mean and hope-
lessly parish worm over the Northern Territory
matter that even the Sydney Telegraph, which is
a good deal of a parish institution itself, spoke
severely to him in its leading article of June 5.
And this quite surprised Carruthers. Apparently
he thought that it was his business to Go The
Whole Worm, and when his best supporter told
him plainly that the whole worm was too much
worm, he was an amazed public caterpillar.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is a medicine
of great worth and merit. Try it when you have
a cold.*
Supposing the Australian Government
decided to amend the Constitution, and the
electors were agreeable, and Sydney was made the
capital site, with even 100 square miles around the
G.P.O. as the Federal territory, would Car-
ruth ers, then be satisfied ?
Senator Chataway was the Argus and
S.M. Heeaud’s Special Commissioner to the
Territory, and duly wired two columns twice a
week of the “ views of prominent townsmen ” at
Port Darwin. Among other things Chataway,
who is supposed to be a Queensland senator,
stated that the railway to Cloncurry was “being
built slowly from Cairns.” Anti-Sosh doesn’t even
know the geography of the country it was elected
to save from the Labor party.
Even the Age can’t rid itself of the
appalling notion that the Vic. Leg. Council must
be a House of all Fat; and when a Labor candi-
date appeared for Melbourne North, it published
a shrieky head-line, “A Seat in Jeopardy,” and
called upon Fat to roll up and elect a man who
won’t let the Assembly do the things that the
Age says the Assembly ought to do. Yet when
the Labor people tell David Syme that his
Liberalism is humbug, he gets angry.
The big hungry legal action for the re-
covery of Church and School lands, started,
and promptly lost, by Primate Smith against
the N.S.W. Government, is the outcome
of a deeply and carefully laid scheme of
Dr. Broughton, the first Archbishop. Had
the plan worked out as he intended, the
Anglican Church hereabouts would have owned
more land than any other church in the world.
The late Speaker Abbott said he had, as a lawyer,
gone through the scheme, and had it not been
interfered with by various politicians it would
have made the Anglican body in this country the
wealthiest corporate body in Christendom.
Abbott considered Broughton a financial genius,
and grieved that his stupendous and incredible
snatch or steal had not come off.
The resumed Gobbagombolin estate is a
good example of how N.S.W. Legislative Council
helps to rob the people. When the Closer Settle-
ment question was under consideration, the
Assembly decided that land should be com-
pulsorily resumed at the owner's valuation
for land-tax, plus 10 per cent, for disturb-
ance. The Nominee Council knocked that
provision out. The owners of Gobbagom-
bolin valued their estate for land-tax at
£1 13s. 9d. per acre ; or at least that was
the rate at which they paid. The improve-
ments were valued at 12s. 6d. per acre,
making £2 6s. 3d. per acre. Yet when the
State resumed the place with the bound-
less name, the owners were paid £3 7s. 3d.
per acre. So either the State has been
done out of a lot of land-tax in the past,
or it is being done out of a vast amount
of purchase money now. Either way the
N.S.W. Upper House is responsible. And
not a man in the Council has been sent
there by the people’s vote ; in fact, a very
large proportion of them were sent there
because the people voted against them when
they stood for the Assembly.
The Victorian .Railway Department is
doing its best to show that we must open up our
own iron deposits. The department recently
imported a shipment of Krupp’s iron plates, and
fitted up its engine boilers with them. It has
now been discovered that the plates are defective,
and liable to blow out at any time. Anyhow, the
whole of the engines fitted from this particular
shipment have been withdrawn from service, and
are now lying at Newport unfit for use. They
will have to be practically reconstructed, and the
fine old imported material will promptly be
scrapped. A few possibilities suggest themselves.
Firstly, are there any other shipments of this
splendid foreign material wandering about on the
Australian railways ? Secondly, if there are, what
is the possibility of getting George Reid to drive
the loco, till he ascertains what is the precise
bursting-point of the plates ?
BE CALM
There is no occasion for hurry in dealing with our debt
problem.—Argus.
THE STATES : “ Don't get excited, Deakin; ‘plenty
of time; it's our river he's drowning in.”
The success of the Australian party 1 r .ders
at the London Conference has broken G. ibr.J up
utterly. He cannot even clown plausibly on the
painful subject. When George gets to the stage
that he is unable to clown about a thing, the
disappointment is deep and bitter indeed.
HIS GARMENT.
And it came to pass that Joseph wore a coat of many
colors. — Muddled Scripture to suit a muddled, poli-
tician.
JOSEPH: “ The ( turn) coat of many colors."
The crowd which is trying to block the
land-tax and the bre dung up of big N.S. W.
estates is pointing out that it is all wrong to say
that farmers are being driven into Queensland—
that “the return of estimated population in
Queensland shows that Queensland actually lost
male population during the Mu.ch quarter.”
Quite true. Queensland did lose population—
Kanaka population. The ingenious crowd forgot
to mention that it was in the March quarter that
Tommy Tanna was sent home.
Already quite a herd of legal men are
looking hungrily at the proposed billet of Hired
Anti-Federal Grumbler. Yet it isn’t so good a
job as it looks. The States are to pay this in-
dividual up to £3OO a year, and he
is to inspect Federal Bills and
find infringements upon State
Rights. In between times
he can go fishing. When
he finds an alleged in-
fringement, the Austra-
lian Parliament will
probably remark that if
there is anything in the
discovery the High Court
can deal with the matter after
the Act is passed, and it will tell the ab-
surd official to run away and play. That
will make him feel quite futile. And as
there have been 6J years of Federation
without any infringement of State Rights,
the wretched official hasn’t much chance
of finding anything for his salary. Yet if
he doesn’t find anything he will presently
be sacked _as useless. And if he finds
bogus infringements his legal reputation
will become a joke and a laughing-stock.
Why shouldn’t he hunt for the Holy Grail in
between times so that the States will get some-
thing for their money? Any fairly-swift official
could run after the two chimeras at the same time.
Cheviot (Maoriland), one of John McKen-
zie’s earliest Land-for-Settlement estates, resumed
from Ready Money
Robinson some 15 years
ago, now holds an agri-
cultural show of its
own, and is one of the
most prosperous country
settlements in Maori-
land, notwithstanding
the fact that :it was
nearly shaken out of
existence by earth-
quakes during 1901 and
1902. Dismal Massey,
the leader of the poor
old toothless Conserva-
tive party —the party
which, when it was in
power, ran relief works
at 2s. Gd. a day and
soup kitchens in the
principal M.L. towns—
this tine old Massey
visited Cheviot re-
cently, and told an
astonished audience
that he would fight for
them and the freehold
till his dead body was
carried off the Opposi-
tion benches. Every one
of his hearers remem-
bered the time, some
16 years ago, when
Massey and his crowd fought tooth and nail to let
old squatter Robinson keep the freehold of
Cheviot. Sixteen years ago Massey wouldn’t let
the “ common people ” have the freehold or the
leasehold or anything else, and the folks who are
now on Cheviot might have died in the back
streets of Auckland, or on the “Devil’s Half-
Acre” in Dunedin, for all the Tory class cared.
And now Massey lays his paw on his stomach and
offers to perish for them, talking furiously to the
last.
It is notified that, the Commerce Act
having been five months in operation, no further
grace will be given to importers to familiarise
themselves with its provisions, and future
breaches will be dealt with in the Special Customs
Court. Australia is very kind to the importer.
In old English days the man who was caught
swindling the Customs was speedily thrown into
prison, when he wasn’t shot on sight; and even
to-day the casual spieler who stops the country
yokel in Bourke or George-street and sells him a
brummy ring as gold is promptly given six months
as a rogue and a vagabond. But the importer
who sells tin tailings as pure silk has a special
court all to his own cheek, so that he shan’t have
to rub against the other rogue, and gets off with
a fine of about a tenth of the sum he filched from
the public.
The Austral seasons come and go
In summer’s heat and winter’s snow ;
And spring unfolds her fresh green shoots ;
And autumn brings her gift of fruits.
Each change is fraught with human ills,
With coughs and colds and sudden chills ;
But life is safe, and health is sure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Still another crowd, which is mostly
horrified when the union bricklayer or miner
wants preference for unionists, is vigorously
demanding preference for itself. This is the
Institute of Accountants of Victoria, which wants
the Federal Attorney-General to put in the new
Companies Act, a clause giving members of the
institute an absolute monopoly of companies’ audit
work in Victoria. There are some reasons why
auditors should be licensed; but it isn’t for private
coteries to do the licensing. Notoriously some of
the best accountants in the States don’t belong
to any of these “institutes,” simply because they
don’t need the poor little advt. which member-
ship confers.
A traveller lately discovered a bridge at
the back of Bowen (Q.), where it was lost about
30 years ago. This structure, which cost many
thousands of pounds—now a pretty rotten perma-
nent and reproductive asset to set against Cohen’s
loan—was put up in 1872, at a time when Ravens-
wood trafficked direct with Bowen. When
Charters Towers sprang into existence trade
filtered that way, en route to Townsville, so
Bowen was neglected, and millions were spent to
make Townsville a passable harbor. (Philp re-
presents Townsville.) Thus the great bridge
went out of use after it had carried across the
Burdekin only a few hundred tons of merchandise.
In the course of time floods came down and swept
away the approaches, so the structure was left
standing in midstream, weird and woebegone.
The other day a traveller went that way and dis-
covered it—the permanent and reproductive asset
that had been lost, strayed and forgotten.
From “ Caber ” :—-
Bob Philp has a deal of luck on his side. At the late
Queensland elections Labor presented him with five seats,
and Kidston handed him three. His candidates won on
minority votes at Cairns, Carnarvon, Murilla, Musgrave,
Woollongabba, South Brisbane (2), and the Valley. I
anticipated this, but expected Philp would also retain
the four seats he lost, and win Warwick, Nundah,
Aubigtiy, Oambooya, and the second seat for Drayton
and Toowoomba, so was ready to swear he won hi have
a working majority. It’s Bob’s turn to swear no.v. Any
hope he may have for a coalition with either Kidston or
Bowman doesn’t look too promising, and just there his
luck peters out. Kidston wouldn’t join him, and if he
did, Kerr, Jackson, Cowap, Maxwell, Kenna, Grant,
Brennan, and Woods would return to the Labor camp,
with a strong probability of M‘ln tyre and Blair accom-
panying them. A coalition with Bowman is too preposter-
ous ; thus Philp may consider himself removed from active
service. If Kidston has the wisdom of the serpent about
the establishment, now is the psychological moment to
yank it out. Philp should he made Speaker, and in less
than six months Janny Leahy, his successor, would
bump the Tory party over so many political logs ttiat a
pitiful wreck would be a complimentary term to apply to
it.
THE CREEP OF THE ASIATIC .
The remodelling of Sydney Parliament
House proceeds apace. Carruthers inspcrs ap
provingly and often a suite of rooms designed
for the Premier —an office, a private study
and a bedroom, all fitted with polished rose-
wood, marble mantels, and stamped metal ceil-
ings. A dreadful rumor has it, however, that
boiler-maker and Opposition leader McGowen
has also been seen approvingly inspecting the
rooms, just as the next heir may call and inspect
the house when the old man isn’t feeling well, or
as the crow may inspect the sheep when that
animal’s woolly race is nearly run.
Tasmanian Senator Dobson, drifting re-
cently through Sydney, dropped the opinion that
“it would be a great blunder to establish the
Federal capital in the bush.” In this respect
Dobson and his kind are suggestive of the lout
who was urged by his father to get married, and
who defended himself on the ground that he
didn’t know any girls. “Bustle about and get
to know some, same as I had to do,” said the old
man. And the lout snarled back: “Yes, that’s
all very well. You married mother, but I’ve got
to marry a strange girl.” To Dobson and his
kind Sydney and Melbourne are mother, and the
bush capital is the strange girl. They can’t
understand that mother was also a strange girl
once, and that Sydney and Melbourne were
also bush capitals at one time. So, for
that matter, were London and Rome and
Babylon and Calcutta, and every other
metropolis. Australia badly wants another
city ; far too much of its population is centred in
its two big capitals. The only way to make a new
city, is to start it just as Sydney and Melbourne
were started—in the bush. And if Dobson & Co.
could understand the simple proposition that the
strange girl beside the Snowy River will also be-
come mother in course of time, they would talk
less foolishness about “the bush capital.” The
term itself shows their mental confusion. While
it is bush it isn’t a capital, and when it becomes
a capital it won’t be bush.
The fact that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
is pleasant to take has made it a favorite with
mothers everywhere.*
SAVE HER FROM HER “FRIENDS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There is no doubt that New South Wales had better
be alive to the (act that she has not many friends. —
Premier Carruthers, in the course of a recent press inter-
view.
Too true, Joe !
A crowd of enemies has N.S.W.,
And if you’ve half a-mo’ to spare I’ll trouble you
To name a greater than her Premier wild,
Who apes the antics of a pampered child—
Inventing Ma State woes that his poor self
May keep from being placed upon the shelf.
Don’t you, Joe,
By this late time of day the hopeless folly see
Of stocking only baseless wails as policy?
What foes of State are worse than those with hungers
For chance to pose as vamped-up grievance-mongers f
Go to, Joe !
N.S.W.
U.


Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING’S.
fg
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices, of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Paling'*s,
338 Georg'e St.,
SYDNEY.
Musical
Instruments
at Paling’s.
mmmKmmmammnmmmmmm
No matter
what you
want in the
shape of
Musical In-
struments
Paling’s
can supply
you at low-
er prices
mmmammmmmammJtkmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmammmmm
than any
other firm.
Call or 1*0(1 for Cat*-
lojfuoo o( Piano*, Orfant,
Muaio or Bond Inatru-
m*ntl.
Juit aar which Catalogue
you want, it -will bo mailed
TREE.
Paling'* s
338 George St.
Sydney
79
Talking'
Machines
at Palings.
m
f
mahh>^
*.. <
cm art.
HONO6R
Edison Phonographs.
Columbia
Graphophones.
Gramophones.
BEST QUALITY goods
at LOWEST PRICES.
Write for free catalogues.
Paling"s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
89
The COLONIAL MUTUAL
Life Assurance Society, Ltd.
Completed New Business for the year pf t Tft
ended 31 st December, 1906 - - X- \ f IDOfD I U
Being an Increase of 25 per cent, over that for the previous year.
New Annual Premiums
£45,424
Being an Increase of 27 per cent, over that for the previous year.
Accumulated Funds, 31st December,
1906
Annual Income Exceeds -
£2,982,018
. £465,000
7 4
8 9
10 5
0 0
The Contracts of the Society are of a Liberal and
Comprehensive Nature, and its Financial Position
is Thoroughly Sound and Solid.
Branch Offices established In all the Australian States,
New Zealand, South Africa, and Great Britain,
PRINCIPAL OFFICE:
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Directors :
HENRY HENTY, Esq., Chairman.
H. BYRON MOORE, Esq.
Hon. AGAR WYNNE, M.H.R.
A. BONVILLE WERE, Esq., J.P.
GERALD T. BAKER, Esq.
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A., Secretary and Actuary.
SiSi
W-
m
§%fci
m
/
J
\
&
4
;n i ■
AN EXTRAORDINARY PHENOMENON.
“What is it?”
“Why, it’s ‘YOURS AND MINE.”’


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGIU. & CO., 18 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWNING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Old ’Un”: Bulletin par. (6/6/’O7), anent
Wren’s booming of Squires, is to the point, and correct.
Squires may be a wonder, but he hasn’t proved it yet.
Kling, Murphy, Bill Smith, Mike Williams and co. were
as so many ninepins set up to be toppled over. Felix gave
at least as good as he got in 11 rough rounds with
Squires at Newcastle, and no more deserved disqualifica-
tion for fouling than his opponent, as each transgressed
frequently, but the black never tackled the ex-miner
with the same heart again. ’Twas like Mick Dooley
opposed to that other great Australian natural fighter of
years ago—Joe Goddard. Don’t say Bill Squires was
taught by Bill Smith. If Smith tried to teach Squires, he
failed badly. The latter’s position is akin to that of the
bullocky with his language : “It wasn’t l’arned ; it’s a
gift.” Squires is lucky in getting Burns, who fights to
suit the Australian, and, though a few pounds heavier,
has 3in, less height and not near the same reach—disad-
vantages which should take some getting over unless
made up for by greater skill.
• * * *
The most remarkable thing about the unex-
pected is the frequency with which it happens. In fact,
it is always doing so, but nobody seems to get accus-
tomed to it. This explains the stupefaction with which
Sydney was overwhelmed when it heard that Queensland
had defeated its Rugby team by II to six, in the dull,
damp afternoon of Saturday last. It was an outrage of
the worst sort, for of the last 10 matches played, Queens-
land had gained only one. Last year the whole four
went to the Ma State by 11 to nine, eight to six, 25 to
three, and 13 to eight. For Queensland to win at all was
looked upon as amazing, but to do so by 11 to six was
regarded as quite impossible. The N.S.W. team does not
appear to have played together at all, while Queensland
entered the field with a magnificent forward team, a
pack that played with such perfect combination as to
suggest much practice together, and with an unselfish-
ness that is far above rubies or fat cigars. And it had its
reward—ll to six.
Much wonder has been expressed at the “in-
different ” play of the Sydney cracks. As a matter of fact,
it is a tribute to their sterling Rugby qualities. The best
men in club Rugby are not individualists —they are ex-
cellent parts of good machines. D’Alpuget, the reliable
and solid full-back of Eastern Suburbs, was not recog-
nisable in the nervous tumbler of Saturday afternoon,
and yet they were the same man. Messenger, the
brilliant three-quarter of the same fine team, was dull as
a tallow rush-light compared to the sparkling three-
quarter, whose forwards and half-backs live to feed him,
and who, in turn, feeds his wing men, to take it back again
later on. Just at present everybody is blaming the team
that lost, and mentioning names of sterling players who
ought to be dropped out of the next team. But in a few
days they will come to their senses and blame, not the
players, but the management. The team should have
been picked weeks ago and played together at least half-
a-dozen times, and then the downfall might not have
happened.
Play was somewhat rough on both sides, but the
only serious casualty was the breaking of the leg of N.S. W.
captain, Harold Judd, who collided with one of his own
three-quarters. Although his loss was a serious matter
to his side, there remains the discomforting fact that all
the scoring was done in the first half, while Judd was on
deck, so that N.S.W. was beaten before its skipper was
laid out. Playing with the wind, Queensland made all
its points in the first half, and, when N.S.W. got the wind
in the second half, it failed to add a point to its score,
although it certainly did prevent Queensland increasing
its figures.
* * * *
It remained for the League (Australian rules)
inter-State team to hold up the N.S. W. end of the log.
Port Adelaide, the S.A. premier team, came to slay; and
devour ; but N.S.W. 18 did the devouring, Port Adelaide
being eaten to the tune of 57 points to 44. Only some
3000 people rolled up to see N.S.W. win, while 25,000
swarmed along to see their State w’alloped on the fatal
Rugby field. It u'as the superior speed of the Sydney
Leaguers which enabled them to outclass their Adelaide
rivals. Hitherto no one has taken N.S.W. Australian
football very seriously, but this decisive win, by 13
points, is a fair warning that the Cornstalk leaguers are
no longer small potatoes. At first Port Adelaide showed
superior skill in taking marks, but after a little practice
the Cornstalks began to do the kangaroo act with equal
skill, and then their superior speed began to tell.
In the Sydney Soccer football game Pyrmont
and Glebe are still at the head of the competition with
10 points each, each team having managed to down
its opponents. Pyrmont, in particular, was called
upon to prove its quality by Petersham, the baby club.
Balmain and Ultimo are in second place with eight points
each, Rozelle and Petersham third with five, and Navy,
by virtue of its bye, is two.
Glebe won its match against Rozelle by the
narrow margin of one goal, the figures being four to three.
But the interest of the day was centred on the meeting
of the precocious infant, Petersham, with Pyrmont, last
year’s premier team. In the first half the baby had the
advantage of a strong wind, and although Pyrmont,
by a lucky chance, did score a goal, it put in
most of its time saving its meat by very narrow
margins. The spell found the scores—Pyrmont one,
Petersham nil. With the wind behind it in
the second half Pyrmont came down like the Assyrian,
and like that ancient party came to grief. After a fear-
some struggle round the Petersham goal the play sud-
denly raged away to Pyrmont goal, and Petersham
scored, equalising the figures. The premier team found
itself hard pressed, but managed to avoid any further
damage, although it had quite a number of narrow
escapes, the ball twice going over instead of under the
bar. Then Petersham’s wind gave out, its strength
turned to froth, like the beer that is half uncorked, and
Pyrmont scored four goals in short order, and won by five
to one. The other match, that between Balmain and
Ultimo, ended in a draw, each team scoring a goal.
* * * *
Last week both the Yic. League and Associa-
tion suspended their premiership matches, the former to
meet Ballarat and Bendigo, the latter to attend to S.
Australia. The Oroweaters sent over the heaviest team
they have exported for years, the result being a complete
surprise. Instead of a rough scramble, in which weight
beat skill, the 10,000 spectators got far and away the
finest game seen in Melbourne this season. There were
faults, of course. The play was slow at the start, and
there was far too much throwing of the ball; nevertheless
there were no scrimmages or scuffling ruck play
—the ball was travelling from end to end of
the ground the whole time. The big men were very
slow in getting a move on, and in the middle of
the second quarter the Vies, had put up five goals
three behinds to one goal four behinds, and the crowd
was silently preparing to move homewards. But once
the Oroweaters got warm they levelled matters, and at
half-time the tally was Vic., 7.6 ; S.A., 6.5. Lemon-time
saw S. A. men leading by 10.9 to 9.9, and, if they didn’t tire,
a strenuous fourth quarter was promised. It came as it
comes but once in aseason. The big fellows from Price’s
State threw their last ounce into it, and in 15 minutes
had notched three more goals, while the Bentites could
only score a goal and five behinds. It looked all over,
but the dark blues kept their heads and, playing
straight to one another, put up three goals
in twice as many minutes. The crowd yelled itself
hoarse. The Vies, had a five-point lead, and it was but
two minutes from “time.” But a goal would gives. A.
the victory, if it could get one. From the bounce in the
centre a tall fellow jumped and punched the ball to a
waiting mate outside the crush. He kicked it on again,
but his mate fumbled and the leather went out of bounds.
Tossed in, the manoeuvre was repeated, and a Croweater
“marked” 50.yds. from goal at an angle. It was odds
against his sending it through, and it was S. A.’s last hope
—the timekeeper had picked up the bell. Swiftly the
Croweater passed the ball to a mate 20yds. nearer goal,
who held it. Carefully placing the oval, he took his run,
and even as the ball rose the bell rang, but it sailed
straight between the posts, and South ’Oss had won a
fairly-played, hard-fought and beautifully open game by
one point—93 to 92. One question the game unfortunately
leaves undecided —whether weight and height are better
than pace and trickiness. Some of the Vic. League teams
have of late gone in for weight alone—with some skill, of
course—and so far they are at the top of the tree ; how
they will fare when the wet weather makes the grounds
mere swamps remains to be seen. On the Melbourne
ground a League 18 met a Ballarat team, while another
squad went up to Bendigo to try conclusions with the
locals. In both cases the results justified the forecasts of
the crowds that unanimously stayed away, the League
beating Ballarat by 170 points to 25 and Bendigo by
94 to 53.
* * * *
Those South Melbourne pushites who bar-
rack for “ Skinner’s hirelings ” had a great day on Prince
of Wales’ birthday, when, just as the game against
Geelong concluded, an aged St. Kilda barracker opined
that that club would make shows of the lot of them.
Having as little respect for age as they have for them-
selves, some South larrikins hustled the old boy, and
on a constable interfering “went for” the John whole-
sale. Three were arrested, with great difficulty, several
cab windows and constables’ helmets being wrecked in
the process. Fines of £7, £3, and £2 met the cases in
the opinion of the honorariums.
* * * *
Country football seems even more willing than
the city variety. At a recent Wednesday afternoon match
at Port Campbell, near Camperdown (Vic.), two players
had to be taken to hospital, one with two ribs broken, the
other suffering from an ill-directed kick in the abdomen.
At another local match, the same day, Mortlake, which
was discussing matters with Camperdown, was so in-
censed at a goal umpire for allegedly giving a goal as a
behind that nearly the whole 18 went for the one lone
man, tore his flags to pieces, and chased him off the field.
He managed to escape on his bike, but he’ll think twice
before umpiring for Mortlake again.
* * * *
“Pivot” writes in an illogical and discrepant
manner, alleging that The Bulletin’s Melbourne scribe
belongs to the Stinking Fish party. He doesn’t say
exactly why he thinks so, but apparently his ire is aroused
because the City of Dreadful Sleep—Geelong, to wit—
can’t raise a football team that has any hopes of the
premiership. He says, “’Wood, South, Carlton, Rich-
mond, Prahran, Essendon (A.), Preston, West, all have
Geelong’ players shining in their ranks.” Perhaps so ;
but, to take a particular instance, a South player—a
man who was not born in Geelong-, who has played
for three years for Richmond and two for South,
but who works in Geelong because he has a decent billet
there —hardly belongs to that Abode of Sleep. Doubtless
many players have been seduced away from the Geelong
club by metropolitan offers of billets ; but so they have
from other cities and States ; so they are in other games,
and in other professions. This writer, be it noted, is not
advocating professional football —he merely states the facts
as he learns them. He has always advocated district foot-
ball, but while the League club managers and those of
Essendon (A.), Prahran, Williamstown, among others,
act as they do, there is no hope for district football. As
for Geelong refusing to pay its players, which “ Pivot ”
asserts is the case, and which seems to be assigned as the
reason of its backwardness—well, these League secre-
taries have been challenged to make sworn de-
clarations that they do not pay any players, and
their only answer has been a monumental silence.
Anyhow, what does Geelong do with its cash ? It gets
the same share of the finals as the other clubs, and its
proportion of its own matches just as, say, Saints and
Melbourne, which last year divided with it the honor of
tailing the list of League clubs. If it shouts no suits of
clothes, boots, hot sea baths, etc., this spotless and
wholly non-professional club must have a nice little pile
stowed away somewhere.
* * * •
“ Nulla ” : Saw it remarked (B. 6/6/’O7) that the
superiority of N.S.W. city football teams compared to the
country ’bailers represented a state of things not found
in Maoriland. It wasn’t found in N.S.W. either in earlier
days. I remember when the Sydney lads used to go down
pretty frequently before the Western Union team. In
fact, until the secession of the clubs now forming the
Central Western Union, things were always pretty even,
and the last match the combined westerners played
(about ’94) wound up with a city defeat. The twin
curses of big landlordism and centralisation are no doubt
responsible for the decadence of country sport. Booting
a ball won’t keep a man in bread and butter, to say
nothing of beer, in the country, and, in pursuing a job,
he drifts away, so that it is rare to see the same mem-
bers in a team two years running. It is different in the
city. There the teams are like the Australian XI.; a man
only drops out through sheer senile decay. Wickham,
for instance, must remember the days when football con-
sisted in letting the ball drift to oblivion, or some other
place equally indefinite, while the plavers kicked one
another till all, including the air, was blue. The days, in
fact, when, as an occasional rheumy-eyed has-been will
inform us, “ We played like asterisked blanks.”
* * » *
They have got football form down pretty fine
in England. The 20 leading clubs that form the League
play 38 matches each, and in the season just ended no
club won more than 22, or lost more than 20 ! (This is
explained by the fact that “soccer” matches end in a
tie quite once in every four times.) With two points
counted for a win, and one for a draw, the best and
worst of the professional clubs come out thus :
Goals.
Played. Won. Lost. Drawn. Points. For. Against
Newcastle 38 22 9 7 51 74 46
Stoke ..38 8 20 10 26 41 64
When the last mail left, the clubs were all trying to fill
any weak spots in their teams for next September. (A
close season of four months, May Ist to September Ist, is
rigidly' enforced, for fear the public should get sick of
the game.) As an example, a Birmingham club, not even
in the first division of the League—but anxious to get
there—was paying a London team £4OO for a transfer of
its talented “centre-half-back.” The .youth is 24, and
has already played for a Lancashire club, for Leicester,
and in London. How local interest is kept up in the im-
portations is difficult to see. Of the eleven men that by
birth represented Scotland in the internationals this
year, eight were members of various clubs in England !
Objection is being taken to the careless manner
in which the League footballers dress for the game in
Sydney. The first-grade teams are the worst offenders,
frequently' appearing on the ground with bare legs (from
knee to ankle only) and with these legs unshaven. Years
ago, some of the swimmers took to shaving their supports
and using bear’s grease on them liberally. It wasn’t real
bear’s grease, of course—you never get that unless you
slay' your own bear —but it was what is called bear’s
grease. The result was something that would have
turned Julius Knight green with envy, and hundreds of
girls flocked to the carnivals where the beautiful
objects were on view. The Leaguers in Sydney badly
require to do something to draw the crowds, and if the
teams that play in the enclosed grounds were to go in for
beauty-leg cultivation it would probably start a rush of
girls, and the girls would bring their own boys with them
for educational purposes.
* * ♦ *
At the Targo Florio reliability motor-car race,
lately run in Sicily, the cars that came first, second, and
third, also all those that came after them, right up to the
car that finished ninth, were shod with Michelin tyres.
The race extended over 400 miles of rough mountain
country; so the Michelin tyre did well. Likewise the
winner and second in the Targo Florio Voiturette Oup
race were shod with the same good old reliable tyre.*
* » * *
The impending retirement of the energetic
fighting secretary of N.S.W. League of Wheelmen, Hugh
D. Mclntosh, will be a severe blow to that body. Pro-
fessional racing cyclists are, in the mass, unmitigated
pointers and scoundrels, and Fighting Mac has grown
a-weary of trying to keep them honest and straight in
spite of themselves. In between the four years of wield-
ing the axe on poolers and other crooked riders he has
built up a huge catering business in Sydney, and, in
addition, now runs the tourist resorts at National
Park, Sydney', and Mt. Kosciusko, Monaro. His four
years’ experience as secretary of a racing body, in which
the animals that did the racing talk, would make an in-
teresting book. Mr. Mclntosh was a great believer in
Faulconbridge’s maxim, “Straight let us seek, or
straight we shall be sought! ” and when a crooked rider
suddenly got an inspiration, as one did that night
he sent one man sprawling on the grass and threw
the other against the pickets, he usually wants a little
time to work out a reasonable chain of accidents and
reasons. Mclntosh never gave him that time, but came
down on him suddenly. Then the man whose brains
had largely run to calves, got mixed, blundered, and gave
his case away.
* * * *
One of the bitterest prejudices the average anti-
gambling Oarruthersite parson owns is against the totali-
sator system of betting. These saintly ones do not ask
that wagering shall be squelched utterly. They are not
quite so unworldly and foolish as that, though they do
believe in anti-Sosh, B. Smith, the malignancy of Victoria,
and such-like futilities. What they want is to see the
devastating curse “ regulated,” as the cant phrase goes.
The ideal they set before themselves, judging by their
attitude in regard to Wade’s recent anti-gaming measure,
is a racecourse enclosure, spotted with well-pleased
Israelites and their mostly' indifferently-pleased clients,
all betting for unlimited sums under the benevolent eye
and protection of the law. Now gambling by totalisator
is necessarily limited in extent. Even in Paris, where ten
money'ed people go racing to every one here, the invest-
ment of £lOO on a horse will send him out favorite in five
races out of six, and that by a process as mechanical as
the working of a penny-in-the-slot machine. In a word,
the moment a certain comparatively trivial amount is
passed through the pari-mutuel machine for any particu-
lar animal, it ceases to be worth the owner’s while, or
anyone else’s, to back that animal further. Under the
bookmaking sy’stem which obtains here, and which the
Reform parsons are helping to foster and maintain,
money may be won or lost practically to any
extent. If the layer of odds is sufficiently venturesome,
or has the horse stiffened, or happens to be broke anyhow
and “ going for the gloves,” or any other old thing of the
sort, there are no limits to the sums he may risk. And,
in any case, a book running well into the thousands is
nothing’ exceptional where most of our penoillers in a
fair way of business are concerned. The (theoretically)
anti-gambling parson, who in practice is in favor of the
biggest and most flagrant form of gambling we have here,
constitutes one of the queerest of anomalies.
* * * *
Another and a bigger-than-ever Maoriland
invasion threatens next A.J.C. meeting. In addition to
the lot already'" publicly mentioned, the coming of
Misere, Tambourina, Entombi, Prince Boy, Cross Bat-
tery, Maniapoto, and a number of Mr. G. G. Stead’s
cracks is announced.
* -* * »
That money for betting isn’t so plentiful in the
Wheat State this as last year was evidenced at Adelaide
Birthday meet, which ended on Saturday. Three days’
tote turn-over reached £29,361, as against £31,087 twelve
months before. Big event (Alderman Cup) of last day
saw the once Wren-owned Pius favorite, but neither he
nor the two next fancied—Cairngorm and Red Streak—
were placed. The winner, Ganymedes, was among the least
fancied, and paid £l6 odd. Cairngorm’s comparatively
poor showing suggests that there was much of fluke in
his Birthday triumph.
* * » *
Another big Maoriland tote div. Double
Uneuku (York Welter) and Loch Fyne (Winter Steeple)
at Auckland t’other day paid £BO4 for £l, and Uneuku
paid £64 straight out. Yet the Ikey' Mo can’t-lose
method of betting is legislated for in the Common-
wealth, and the honest-odds machine is shut out alto-
gether.
* • • *
The recently-announced retirement of that
brilliant performer, Achilles, brings to mind that during
six seasons of racing he won 25 times in 45 starts, and
gathered £8930 prize money. Achilles was bred at the
Tillimbystud (N.S.W.), and is by the Nordenfeldt horse
Medallion, from the Goldsbrough mare Sea Swallow.
* * •* *
Moorefield (Sydney)races(Saturday)introdueed
a promising youngster in Cryograft, who won Two-Year-
Old Handicap (sfur.) quite easily, beating such known
good ones as Scotch Annie (favorite) and Maesmore,
also others, pointless. If Cryograft can stay—and there
was everything in her run to indicate that she possesses
that quality—there’s plenty' of money ahead for the stable.
The filly is by Grafton from Cryolite, and strongly inbred
to Stockwell.
• * » •
N.S.W. and Victoria having, by special legisla-
tion, recognised and established on a legal footing the
hitherto “unregistered racing,” serious doubts have
arisen in both States as to the power of the A.J.C. and
V.R.C. to refuse the entries of horses whose owners are
guilty of no offence but competing at unregistered meet-
ings. In N.S.W. the A.J.C. has practically admitted the
injustice of doing so, by removing the embargo from
something like a hundred horses, and a similar
number of owners, trainers, and jockey's, and
it has announced that another batch will be
pardoned later on. In Victoria, the metropolitan pony
clubs are run by John Wren, and the V.R.C. is not taking
any Wren at any price. It threw down the glove in a
most unmistakable manner by wiping out the entry of a
horse named Cuirass, for the Birthday meeting, on the
ground that the nag had competed at one of Wren’s
meetings. Wren and the owner are talking about taking
legal action to prove that the V.R.C. had no power to
strike out the entry, and the V.R.C. says, in effect, “Fire
away! ” If Wren and the owner do fire away,
it will be a most interesting case. But the
amusing feature of the business is that in N.S.W.
the unregistered association is talking of disqualifying
the men who take advantage of the A. J.C.’s “ clemency.”
Whatever may happen in Victoria there seems little
doubt what will eventuate in N.S.W. Any row will
simply bring into existence the “ Advisory Board ” pro-
vided for by the Wade Act, which will take the matter
right out of the hands of the wrangling clubs and settle
it over their heads, and, most likely, in a manner that
will please none of them. The money hunger seems to
be at the root of the trouble —not any high-minded con-
sideration for the “ best interests” of the sport that does
so much “ to improve the breed of horses.”
•* * * *
The inter-Association bowling match between
N.S.W. and the Northern Association (Newcastle) took
place on Wickham green (Newcastle), under a damp sky,
on wet grass, and with greasy wood. Whether it was
that the N.S.W. men were so wet inside that the exterior
dampness was unnoticed, writer knoweth not, but they
certainly scored in a remarkable manner, winning by 119
to 83.
While these things were happening at New-
castle, at Ashfield green (Sydney) Mosman and Balmain
fours were struggling for the Rink Championship. Mos-
man had never a hoDe, Balmain winning by 39 to 11.
*** * *
Saturday last was Redfern’s day out at hurling.
The first-grade team beat that of City by 24 points to
five, and the second beat the City 11. by 18 points to
seven. Thisplaces Redfern at the head of both competi-
tions, with four points in the first grade and 12 in the
second. City I. and Annandale are two points each. In
the second-grade competition Marrickville, Glebe, and
City 11. have 11, two and one points each respectively.
* * *
Another unbeaten team met its Cannae on
Saturday last in Sydney, when the crack Petersham
crowd of baseballers was defeated by Chatswood by 11 to
nil. Not only was it a record hiding, but it was ad-
ministered in record time, the wiping-out of the team
occupying exactly five minutes. Paddington also ad-
ministered “ a well-deserved castigation ” to North
Sydney, flooring the Northmen by 11 to six, and Woollahra
crushed University, at Centennial Park, by 19 to six.
* * * «
“ Hank ” : lie your par. (B. 6/6/’O7) anent cham-
pion wrestler Weber’s retirement, and Rennert’s assump-
tion of the title. Rennert challenged Weber long before
the latter fixed up his last match with Singh, but Weber
made excuses, and, all along, showed disinclination to
tackle the big German, which is understandable, seeing
that Weber and Rennert were together in the Hacken-
schmidt troupe during the latter’s Sydney engagement.
Weber possibly knows that Rennert is dangerous.
Weber’s side-tracking of Rennert for Buttan Singh hasn’t
brought the turbaned alien out with a challenge—he
apparently still has vivid recollections of the summary
manner in which Hackenschmidt dealt with him, and
Rennert is an apt and a hall-marked pupil of the Rus-
sian’s. Rennert did not come from New Guinea ; he
never saw that section excepting on the map. Gus was
in the engine-room of the German liner Prinz Regent
Luitpold, and when persuaded by the late Mr. Hajek and
Mr. W. F. Corbett to remain in Sydney, he couldn’t speak
a word of English. Peculiarly enough, Pagel, the strong
man, while engaged as kitchen hand in a Macquarie-place
(Sydney) restaurant, was discovered by the same two
people.
* * » *
Melbourne Harriers’ five miles novice and
second teams race cross country—the first event of the
season—attracted some 120 runners (representing ten
teams) to Oakleigh, last Saturday afternoon. They got
away with a scrambling rush, the first mile or so being
especially hot. Over the actual cross-country the going
and weather conditions tended to fast times, so the peds
put the pace on. Young Geo. Stillwell, a promising wind-
catcher and cousin to ex-champion ten-miler Aleck Still-
well, was prominent right along the line, eventually
winning by 150yds. The time, 28min. 48sec., is a record
for the course. On time allowance, E. C. Kelly, a ’Varsity
ped, got away with the Novice, and Melbourne A team
blew out Essendon in the teams race. The first half-
dozen to leg it home in the aforesaid invariably show up
well in the big ten-miler at Caulfield in September—
unless they die, or get otherwise disabled in the mean-
while.
THE HOLY SPORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Judkins, at a Y.M.C.A. dinner to Melbourne press-
men, said billiards, boxing-, wrestling and prayer were
excellent exercises for young men. But Juddy is a fierce
opponent of boxing in the professional halls.
When godly youths put up their dukes,
And give each other toko,
Dear Juddy utters no rebukes—
A blessing he’ll invpke-o
For when they’ve punched their noses they
Will fall upon their knees and pray,
And that condones the fistic play,
Likewise the damaged boko.
But if the tough, unholy pug.
Wades in his foe to rattle,
And hits his man a heavy slug,
Jud hates such raffish cattle,
And must till Willie Judkins be
Appointed pious referee,
To pray both long and fervently
Before and after battle.
For prayer as exercise our ad-
’Miration won’t diminish.
We’ve heard the elders rave like mad
In voices fierce if tinnish,
And think the new athletic age
In praying contests will engage,
And saints upon their, knees will rage
For points, or to a finish !
Vic.
S.
A CIVIC OFFICER
FORTIFIES HIS SYSTEM AGAINST PLAGUE AND
DISEASE BY USING DR. MORSE’S INDIAN
ROOT PILLS.
Mr. Samuel Williams, who has been engaged
for the past three years by the Municipal Board
of Health in connection with the cleansing of the
infected areas of Sydney, states that he takes Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills regularly, and thus
keeps his blood pure and his system in good
health. He writes “ 9 Wymess-street, Sydney.
—For over 2J years I have been employed by the
MR. SAMUEL WILLIAMS.
(From a photo.)
City Council in connec-
tion with the Sanitary
Department, cleansing
the city and wharves in
the infected areas. A'"
though I have been in-
oculated, I have always
found that the best pre-
ventive against disease
and common ailments is
to keep the body well,
and in this respect there
is no better remedy than
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. My wife and
family use them occasion-
ally, and while we have
them in the house we
never require the doctor
or any other medicine.
You have my permission to use this, together
with my photo.” Cleanliness is next to Godli-
ness, but it is not alone necessary to keep the
outside clean; the interior must also be kept in a
sanitary condition. Many a tenement in Sydney
from all outside appearances looks clean and
healthy, but a coat of paint on the outside does
not prevent the germs of disease and pestilence
breeding in the dirty, unwholesome inside. So
with the human frame. The microbes enter the
system, and if the bowels are constipated and un-
healthy, and the blood impure, there it finds a
veritable harbor to germinate and gather in
another victim. Why is it that medical men so
seldom fall victims to disease? Well, the reason
is they consult themselves, and knowing that the
true secret of health is the regularity of the
system and the maintenance of unvitiated blood,
they take every precaution to this end. thou-
sands of men and women have learnt this secret,
and like our correspondent (Mr. Williams) use
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and fear neither
disease or any of the common ailments to which
mankind is heir. Be your own doctor. Learn
that a pure and regular system is the only proof
against disease and ill-health. Experience has
taught many this lesson. You may learn by their
experience. Ask your friends, neighbors, and
relatives what Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills ha e
done for them.


0
es
e
Hil
As a cyclist you know you have to
encounter difficulties “on both sides
the hill”—the
Eadie Two=Speed Coaster
enables you to overcome them aIL
It has been called “ the hub of many
merits”—it embodies IN ONE SHELL
a high gear for the level—a low gear
for the hill —a free-wheel on BOTH
gears—and a back-pedalling brake of
absolute efficiency. It makes hill-
climbing easy and coasting a delight.
Specify it in your next new mount
and have this built of
EHDIE FITTINGS
[Ask your Dealer.]
Dept. A, EDDIE M’F’C. CO., LTD.,
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Work : REDDITCH, ENGLAND.
EDISON RECORDS
...0F...
“LOHENGRIN.”
Here are a few of the choicest items from
the Grand Opera—“ Lohengrin’’—obtain-
able in Edison Gold-Moulded Records:
B. 1. Hoclistes Vertrauen (“All con-
fidence thou ow’st me ”), sung by
Heinrich Knote, Tenor.
B. 33. “Euch Luften” (“Ye
Breezes”), sung by Madame Rap-
pold, Soprano, with orchestra
accompaniment.
B. 36. “Lohengrin’s Farewell,” sung
by Andreas Dippel, Tenor, with
orchestra accompaniment.
Write for complete list of Grand Opera
Selections by Grand Opera Singers, and
we will tell you the name of your nearest
dealer, who will play some of the records
for you—free.
Price of the Edison Grand Opera Records,
3s. Bd. each.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO.
Of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. “B” - 340 KENT ST., SYDNEY.
YOUR FUTURE
IS KNOWN!
Your Fortune Free
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
Makes you look manly
Before
1
dfler
The Only Moustache Grower!
It is no unsubstantiated claim to say that Capillarine
is the only certain Moustache Grower. It has grown
thousands of Moustaches in the 25 years of its existence.
It is sure and always does as we claim, or we will
refund money.
Capillarine
10/6 POST FREE TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 25 years.
KUGELMANN’S
7
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
i Aid."
FR.EE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kttgelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box cf 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
£800
FOR NOTHING.
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £800 to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Scamp
Merchant, f4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Send
for his free Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some ? Hunt them up at
once — they are worth money.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE HOGG, of Fryerstown, Deceased.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
ANDREW and WILLIAM HOGG, sons
of the above deceased, is requested to communi-
cate with the Sandhurst and Northern District
Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited,
of Yiew-street, Bendigo.
JAMES P. B. McTUIE,
Manager.
m
• r «--
22
0
l*Kr
m
Outlast all Others
on Australian Roads
Unapproached for
Reliability S’ Wear.
Our Artistic Illustrated Motor Booklet
should be in the hands of every
Motorist. a Posted on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 255 Clarence St., Sydney;
117 Grenfell St., Adelaide; 268-270 Adelaide St.,
Brisbane; 81 King St., Perth; Worcester St.,
Christchurch, N.Z.
Dunlop
Grooved
Tyre.
Dunlop
Studded
Tyre. '
McKenzie v. Grace suit, recently con-
cluded in Sydney, provided the spectacle
of shoddy divided against itself. Reid was
briefed by the McKenzie faction, and he enve-
loped linen-draperism in a mighty Rabelaisian
cloud of laughter. The drama— what there was
of it—was supplied by the various accusations
and cross-accusations of subornation that were
hurled around (apparently everyone was ap-
proached in this case, barring the Judge). Much
Blandoltian humor was provided by Reid in his
researches into the color, size, texture, etc., of
certain articles of female underwear, which, with
an ancient and battered giddiness, he archly
termed “ unmentionables.” Finally, in answer
to one pressing question, a female witness tartly
informed George that he knew as much about
these articles as she did —whereat the ‘‘outsize”
lawyer-politician blushfully subsided.
Carru bhers’ fevered anxiety at the Bris-
bane Conference to distract N.S.W. electors’
attention from his own littleness as a State poli-
tician, by trying to talk big at the Australian
Government, was so apparent that the other
State Premiers got sick of him at last, and spoke
their disgust to the press interviewers as soon as
the foolish conclave’s adjournment gave them a
loose lip. Some opinions;—
From the initial stages the proceedings lacked unani-
mity, and the discussions were tinged with provincial
influences, and colored in some instances by an apparent
desire to make use of the Conference for political pur-
poses. — Premier Evantt ( Tag.).
Mr. Oarruthers appeared to be influenced by the coming
elections. — Acting-Premier Davies (Vic.).
He was surprised, during his present visit to the
Eastern States, to learn that there was a desire to secure
a reversi m to pre-Federal habits of Government.—
Premier Moore (W.A.).
He could not help noticing the utter lack of sympa-
thy expressed by Mr. Oarruthers toward the Common-
wealth, which, if he had his way, would not be allowed to
stir a peg or move in anything. New South Wales has
been assisted in keeping up its white Australia policy,
for which the Commonwealth has paid £187,328, and the
Queensland sugar bounty amounted to £512,319. South
Australia was as much entitled to consideration in deal-
ing with her Northern Territory as the other States had
been in respect of their particular questions.— Treasurer
Peake (S.A.).
Then Price, of 8.A., condemned the whole silly
show, in which Oarruthers was star performer, in
one smashing sentence :
No distinct Australian spirit was displayed at all.
By sending out 1,000,000 copies of a good,
clear map of Australia, Anthony Hordern & Sons
give a valuable tip to some people, who need it
badly, that Sydney isn’t N.S. Wales, and that
there is quite a lot of the Commonwealth that
isn’t even N.S. Wales. The map (about 24in. x
18in.) is so full of up-to-date information that he
is a very well-informed Australian to whom it
can’t teach something. It is to be had for one
penny—and you don’t get many things worth as
much at the price.*
Under the wild heading “ Wake up, New
South Wales!” one J. L. Adams commenced a
letter to Sydney Telegraph last week :
The Premier shows that Federation is leading New
South Wales into bankruptcy.
And yet Oarruthers is going round boasting of the
biggest surplus N.S.W 7 . ever had, and says that
owing to the extraordinary prosperity of the
State he is going to take off a lot of taxa-
tion. The capacity of the Anti-Australian
and Stinking Fisherman for wild assertions is
something marvellous.
Westralia is not having too much luck
with some of its recent State-assisted immigrants.
Among a late batch were some Hebrew youths
who were previously inmates of a London
reformatory school. Stolen property, belonging
to passengers on the steamer by which they
travelled, was found in their possession on
arrival, and part of this consignment now ranks
among the most expert thieves in the West.
Charges of evil fame, breaking and entering, and
stealing have been preferred against some of them ;
one of their number is now serving time at Fre-
mantle, and three others of the band have been
committed for trial.
The State Rights party—which is the
anti-Federal party in a thin disguise—is beginning
to find that the beast that Oarruthers has been
recommending can bite. Westralia has been
exercising its “ State Rights ” to levy “penalis-
ing inspection charges ”on t’otherside fruit; now
S. Australia exercises its “State Rights ” to prac-
tically shut out N.S. Wales - fruit; and a month
or so ago Victoria exercised its “State Rights”
and made a bigger concession to its own poor
little coal mines. The State that has been bitten
worst each time is N.S. Wales; wherefore it
begins to have doubts about the Joss it has been
worshipping lately. The North Queensland Chow
frequently hammers his Joss when he prays for
rain, and Joss sends a flood ; and Sydney Tele-
graph and other recent followers of the petty
Oarruthers start to feel very much like the
northern Chow.
The result of the Flinders election en-
courages Price and Peake, of S. Australia, to
stick to their resolution to go straight to the
British Government for a new Constitution on
Transvaal lines, if the Council will not accept a
reasonable measure for its own reform. At pre-
sent the Council represents only the propertied
two-sevenths of the electors entitled to vote for
the State Assembly and for both Federal Houses,
and for 15 years it has blocked every Govern-
ment’s scheme for reforming the franchise on
which it is elected'.
Late S.M. Herald manager Sam Cook
seems to have returned a much better Australian
than when he left Sydney.. After seeing all the
great places and great men of the Empire, Sam
comes back to express the opinion, in published
interviews, that Sydney is the best place of the
lot; that Australia presents the best conditions
of life of all countries, and that the best men in
public life here. Labor as well as Anti-Sosh, com-
pare, in point of ability, favorably with those of
Westminster. Further, when Teddy Roosevelt
asked Sam why Australians called themselves
colonials, Sam turned vehemently on the man
with the big stick and said that they didn’t.
A reliable medicine for croup, and one that
should always be kept at hand for immediate use
is Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.*
Australian Statist Knibbs has given the
Canadian boomsters and the Australian Stinking
Fish people a nut to crack, in a memorandum to
the Minister for Home Affairs on the text:
“Though you hear a great deal about immigra-
tion to Canada, you don’t hear anything about
emigration.” Knibbs says there are no reliable
Canadian figures hut the census tables, and from
them lie deduces that between 1891 and 1901
Canadian population increased from 4,833,239 to
5,371,315, or a net increase of 538,076. In the
same 10 years the natural increase by excess of
births over deaths was 757,688; so Canada, in
those 10 years, instead of gaining population hv
excess of arrivals, actually lost 219,612 of its
natural increase by excess of departures.
Right in the heart of Melbourne city, at
the top end of Collins-street, where the big trees
round Parliament House look into the Fitzroy
Gardens, there is heard every morning and even-
ing the grand old laugh of the kookaburra. There
is a little colony of ’burras somewhere among those
trees, and they assemble regularly round the
empty Parliament House and smile. They have
been there for years, and when Parliament is in
session, and Joe Cook has been snarling through
an all-night sitting, it is refreshing to hear out-
side, as the morning comes, the honest laugh of the
’burra. It’s a fine healthy-minded bird that can
raise such a robust guffaw over the ashes of the
Cook eloquence.
“S.S.”: It is a mistake to think that
Tommy Bent doesn’t take himself seriously as a
singer. I heard him attempt to sing a hymn
before a gathering of helpless, innocent children
at South Melbourne, and he went through it like
a cheap motor breaking down by the wayside,
Then he told the youngsters that he had learned
all he knew of singing in a Sunday-school choir,
and advised them all to stick to their choir-prac-
tice that they might, when called upon, be, in a
position “to grace any occasion with song. If
T. Bent is not called upon to sing before the
King, it will be somebody else’s fault, be sure of
that. Thomas would sing before the heavenly
choir, if the chance came in his way.


GIFTS FOR WEDDINGS.
THe Art of Giving is not only to select an article that pleases,
But something that always remains a source of satisfaction and deli^Ht.
Buying by Mail.
Our Mail Order Department will serve
you promptly and satisfactorily. Orders
large or small, you will receive the best
merchandise and the best value.
Free Carriage.
Our system of free carriage on all goods
to any part of the Commonwealth means a
big saving to you. All goods carefully
packed to ensure safe delivery.
Illustrated Catalogue
is yours for the asking, write for a copy. We
send it post free to any address. It contains
over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,Silverplate,Leather,Optical Goods.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER KETTLE AND STAND
Pure Silver Plated,
Hand Engraved,
Highly Burnished,
Post £2 . Free.
Other styles,
~ 355, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver, Richly Engraved.
Post 2/6. Free.
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL AND TONGS,
Pure Silver Plated,
Blue Glass Lining.
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles, 5s 6d, 7s 6d, 12s 6d.
Q~jj‘jjy'g~gg^g|gg|)j
m
Ez
gUra
SJfi
i*->«
M
0&
5««
K
gsa
ITO 2
\ :
A. SAUNDERS.
TANTALUS FRAME, English Oak Frame,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2. Pres.
Richly Carved Frame, £3/0/0.
Other Styles, 355, £2, £2 10s, £2 15s,
£3, £3 10s, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
TIE CLIP, SOLID SILVER,
2s 6d; Engraved 3s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d,
Engraved 15s.
isi
A. SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR,
Pure Silver-plated
Frame and Spoon,
Rainbow Glass,
Post 5/3. Free.
Other Styles,
2s Sd, 3s 3d, 4s 3d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPERGNE, 4-Branch,
Pure Silver Plated, Ruby, Opal,
Clear or Green Tinted Glass,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
-■<j h / A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
<S j A 1 Quality, Hand Engraved,
Post 2/6. Free.
Other Styles, 2s, 2s (3d, 3s, 3k 6d, 4s, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE CUP,
Pure Silver-plated,
Nickel Silver,
Engraved Name,
Post 4/6. Free.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d;
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
Clear Glass Dish,
Post 8/6. Free.
Other Style*,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
8-DAY MARBLE CLOCK, First-class Movement,
Strikes Hours and Halves, Cathedral Gong,
Visible Escapement, Enamel Dial.
Kept in Free Repair for 3 Years.
Post £4/10/“. Free.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £3 15s, £4,
£4 10s, £5 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Hand Embossed,
Post 3/6. Free.
Other Styles, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, Ss (id.
w.
bosom;£
7im
KS
tt '
®)iP^
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated,
Cut-glass bottles,
Post 17/6. Fl'< <
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
English Oak,
Porcelain China Lining,
Post T /-. Free.
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,
Cut Crystal Glass, Bottles,
Post 25/- Free.
Other Styles,
15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 30s, 355.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL,
Silver-plated
Floral Decorated China,
Post 12/6. Free.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 9s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
3-Piece, Pure Silver-plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers,
Post £2/15/-. Free.
Other Styles, £3, £3 10s, £4, £4 10s, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK,
Pure Silver-plated Cup,
Patent Stop,
Morocco Covered,
Post 17/6. Pree.
Other Styles,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 15s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET,
Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Engraved,
Burnished or Satin Finish,
Post 20/-. Free.
Other Styles, 255, SOs, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING,
Pure Silver-plated, on White Metal,
' Richly Embossed and Engraved,
Post 3/6. Free.
Other Styles,
Is 6d, 2s 6d, 3s 6d, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL,
Pure ' .ver-plated,
SoL silver Handle,
Post 4/6. Free
Other Styles,
Ss 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver Plated, Nickel Silver,
Al Quality, Fine Cut-glass Bottles,
Post £2/-/-, Free.
Other Styles, 30s, £2, £a 10s, £3, £3 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
ORIBBAGE BOARD AND
CARD DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Post 15/6. Free.
Other Styles,
A. SAUNDERS.
ZEISS PRISMATIC BINOCULAR,
Complete with Sling and Case.
Large Field of View, Perfect Definition.
No. 6, £7/-/-. No. 8, £B/-/-.
Other Styles, 20s, 265, SOs, 355, 40s, 50s.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney-


1
simsis
K/
\
¥
'"'l
d
a
m
fftfyU. vr^C*
Mi
? ' •rS ■ :-
• .
\ &*
■
m
i
•§.
HARRV j. vYV'Stor^
“There’s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia, and
no better brand than the ‘ THREE CASTEEL.’ ”
“ The Virginians—Thackeray


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
the Latest London Gaiety Success,
entitled,
THE SPRING CHICKEN,
interpreted bv the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEAT R E, SYDN EY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
p A LACE THEA T R E, 8 YDNEY.
THE HOLLOWAV DRAMATIC SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE COAL KING.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 15, Boucicault’s Admirable
Irish Drama, THE COLLEEN BAWN.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
Direction
J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING, SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 15,
MABIE HALL
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINISTE.
FOUR CONCERTS ONLY.
Box Plan Now Open at Paling’s.
PRICES—6s, 4s, 3s, and 2s.
HALL,
SYDNEY.
1" O W N
MONDAY and WEDNESDAY EVENINGS,
JUNE 17th and 19th.
Under the Patronage of their Excellencies the Governor-
General and Lady Northcote.
ALB ANT.
ALBANI.
MME. ALBANI. O.M.
ALBANI.
ALBANI.
Supporting Artistes :
Mr. WILLIAM GREEN, Miss MILDRED JONES,
Tenor. Contralto.
Miss MYRTLE MEGGY,
Solo Pianiste.
Mr. HAYDN WOOD,
Solo Violinist.
Mr. THEODORE FLINT, Conductor.
PRICES—7s 6d and ss, Reserved ; 3s, Unreserved.
Plan and Tickets at Paling’s.
Amusements.
JHE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR OF
** MADAME TERESA
CARRENO,
The Celebrated Pianist.
SYDNEY, JUNE 13 & 14. BRISBANE, commencing
JUNE IS. TOOWOOMBA, JUNE 22.
ARMIDALE, JUNE 24.
Plan an Paling’s. ID* - PRICES—Cs, 4S, 3s, 2s.
Direction BENNO SCHEREK.
OURING QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A HIGH-CLASS CONCERT & VAUDEVILLE CO.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Reappearance of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Splendid Success of FRANK HARTLEY, the Juvenile
Wonder. The Juggling Schoolboy.
Immense Success of MISS BIJOU RUSSELL.
Great Success of TECHOW’S CATS.
Miss EILEEN LYONS, Master LESLIE HALLINAN,
THE FOUR ROSEBUDS, THE DRISCOLLS.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Mr. ERNEST FITTS.
LES WHARTON. Miss FLORRIE RANGER.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FANNY POWERS, Australian Mimic.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy, “ The
Lady Sport.”
THE SVENGALIS in the Most Sensational, Inexplicable,
Mystifying Entertainment ever shown.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plays.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
Plan at Allan’s. S3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, and FRIDAY, JUNE 14,
Last Two Performances of . HE VIRGINIAN.
SATURDAY, JUNE 15,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC CO., headed by
MR. CHARLES WALDRON and
MISS OLGA HUMPHRIES
—in—
THE SQUAW MAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
Amusements.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee .. .. .. .. BLAND HOLT.
THURSDAY, JUNE 13, and FRIDAY, JUNE 14, Last
Two Performances of THE GREAT MILLIONAIRE.
SATURDAY, JUNE 15,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
IN LONDON TOWN.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies' & The Grand.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. J. O. Williamson.
THIS EVENING, JUNE 13, and Six More Nights and
Two Matinees Only, the Peerless Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. USUAL PRICES.
pE A L ICE SKATING.
THE FAVORITE WINTER PASTIME.
THE GLACIARIUM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
OPEN DAILY.
GRAND POSTER CARNIVAL
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, at 8 p.m.
Business Announcements.
Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Pfict* fid POST FREE, £t per year,
*. i »vc j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where hies
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bhitish-Acstralasian during the hist
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN(N ear Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
have you
noticed how
thin it is
growing on top ? Does’nt show
when your hair is dressed, but it
worries you just the same.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
will cure those thin places. It
will, nourish, and rebuild your
scalp out of which your hair
grows and upon which it depends
for strength, and life. Be sure
you get Barry’s,
Reuter's Soap improves complexions
Magio o ixtl Mirtli
Mystic Card Tricks
' FUN FOR WINTER EVENINGS
Puzzle Your Clever Friends
Eight Pence
posted.
THE WIZARD’S PACK
changes Four Eights into Four
Deuces, then into a Hand of All
Black, next into a Full Red Hand,
and afterwards you can show 'three
Eights and Two Deuces, or Thiee
Deuces and Two Eights. Real
Magic. Most Mystifying.
THE THREE CARD TRICK
enabies you to win every time. The
smartest of them cannot “spot
the Ace” when yon mix them up.
THE CHANGING CARD
—The Five of Hearts changes to the
Nine of Hearts while yon watch it,
then it becomes the Three of Clubs,
and in an instant it is the Ace of
Clubs. Yery wonderful.
Puzzles everybody.
THE FLYING CARD
THICK makes the chosen card spring out of the pack.
Foil directions with each Trick. You can do them easily, but
they will astonish a roomfull of people. Buy the lot
and become a celebrated Conjurer. Price
Eight Pence each, posted ; any Two Tricks for Is. 2d.; or the
Pour Tricks for 2s. Obtainable <mly from
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THE EDISON
CINEMATOGRAPH.
Write for Full Particulars.
m
wmm
_
Price:
£27 10s*
It is the up-to-date Showman’s money-maker. The Edison Kinetoscope
world. It stands supreme for brilliance, sharpness and accuracy. Easy to
1000 to 12,000 feet of film. It is fitted with the new “take-up” device,
order and have 200,000 feet of it in stock or for hire.
OSBORN
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
& JERDAN, Ltd.,
George Street, bo ™lhotel,
is the best in the
operate, and holds
We make films to
My Opticians,
SYDNEY.
WHY SUFFER FROM COED WEATHERS 7
Wonderful Japanese Hand or Body Warmers
The Finest Protection from Winter on the Market.
Thoroughly Practical. Absolutely Free from Danger.
PRICE
ONLY
2/6
EACH.
TPHESE JAPANESE HAND WARMERS are as wonderful as they are cheap. When in use they will give forth a
1 delightfully soothing warmth of about 120 degrees. The heating power is produced by a Japanese preparation,
which, when lit, smoulders away very gradually, giving out the warmth through the metal case of the HAND
WARMER or HOT BOX. The Preparation is already made up
Sti
ms-
in Cartridge-shaped packages, each containing a sufficient
quantity for about four hours’ warmth. One of these
Cartridges is placed in the Case, lit at one end with a match,
and the lid put on. Bear in mind that there is no smoke, and
no smell whatever, and, as the preparation only smoulders,
there is NOT THE SLIGHTEST DANGER OP FIRE WHAT-
SOEVER. We positively guarantee this to every purchaser,
and assure you that our JAPANESE HAND WARMERS can be
placed amongst the flimsiest material, or in any position in
the pocket or elsewhere with absolute safety.
A REGULAR DEGREE Of HEAT MAINTAINED.
Our JAPANEBE HAND WARMERS are a sure protection
against colds, chills, and other winter complaints, and of
priceless value to sufferers from pneumonia, bronchitis, neur-
algia, headache, toothache, chapped hands, &e. NEVER GO
OUT INTO THE COLD FROM A WARM ROOM WITHOUT
TAKING ONE OF OUR JAPANESE HAND WARMERS
WITH YOU. It’s dangerous. You may regret it. Our HAND
WARMERS are of special value to ladies and gentlemen engaged in light occupations, such as writing, sewing, etc.,
or for keeping-clothing or beds warm there is nothing on the market so effective. Supersedes entirely old-fashioned
bricks Or hot bottles which soon get cold.
USED AND RECOMMENDED BY DOCTOR*.
Can be carried in the pocket, muff, or other convenient part of the body, or can be used as a Foot Warmer. Doe*
not burn. Measures onlv sin. x 3in., lin. thick. The metal case is protected entirely with velvet. Fresh Cartridge*
of the Fuel preparation can be obtained from us at any time at the trifling cost of 4c/. per packet of 10 Cartridges, 03
sufficient for about 50 hours’ warmth. Thousands of these JAPANESE HAND WARMERS in use. Must be seen to be
appreciated Write for one before the winter is any further advanced. Money refunded in full if not in every way
satisfied. Pride, Only 2/6, post free anywhere, with package of 10 cartridges of necessary Fuel preparation.
Extra supplies, 4cf. per packet of 10.
nI /l I f\ I I rn To introduce these HAND WARMERS, we will present, absolutely free, to
\jr m O*. anyone sending us an order for not less than six,'one of our grand ELECTRIC
POCKET LAMPS which we sell at 3/9. If you order 12, you can have two of these Lamps, or one of our first grade
ELECTRIC POCKET LAMPS which we sell at 7/6
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14- Hunter Street, Sydney.
fdg
What enthusiastic users
say about
Records
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
“ Your Records are beauties, far superior to any I have heard of the other makes.”—H. VV, 8., Kurri Kurri*
VICTORIA :
“ The Records sent are quite up to your usual standard, and I am well pleased with them.” —G. J., Glen-
garry, Gippsland.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
“ Must give you credit for introducing to the general public a Record low in price, without interfering
with the quality and sound.”—J. D. L., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND :
“ They are the finest Records I have ever had on my machine, and I have nearly 70 records comprising five
makes without Columbia.” —G. W., Kingsborough,
TASMANIA :
“Have tried both, and prefer the Columbia to records.”—A. S., Ulverstone.
There’s Economy and Satisfaction in using COLUMBIA RECORDS.
Write for our new 1907 Cylinder and Disc “ B” Catalogues.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. GENT., 255 Clarence Street, SYDNEY*
Output of Columbia Records, Two Millions a Month.
fd
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - 6d. ~
Extra Chimneys - - 2\d. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.


AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET of the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES, 31st MARCH, I907.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation £1,085,704 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest .. .. 26,235,345 15 9
Bills Payable and other Liabilities
(which include Reserves held for
Doubtful Debts and Amounts at
Credit of Investments Fluctuation
Account, Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee
and Provident Fund and the Buck-
land Fund) ..
Paid-up Capital .. £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 1,475,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. 177,534 16 5
£27,321,049 15 9
3,338,069 0 7
3,652,634 16 5
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra.
£34,311,653 12 9
690,116 9 8
£35,001,770 2 5
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and
Cash Balances .. £6,451,585 12 4
Queensland Govern-
ment Notes .. 183,554 0 0
Notes of other Banks 34,732 0 0
Money at short call
in London .. .. 1,365,000 0 0
Investments—British
and Colonial Govern-
ment Securities .. 2,291,723 3 0
Municipal and other
Securities .. .. 152,264 2 11
Due by other Banks 64,357 4 10
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit.. 3,586,685 6 9
£14,129,901 9 10
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad-
vances to Customers 19,481,752 2 11
Bank Premises 700,000 0 0
£84,311,653 12 9
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit as per Contra .. 690,116 9 8
£35,001,770 2 5
Dr.
PROFIT AND LOSS, 31st MARCH, 1907.
Cr.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not due at this date .. .. £8,220 9 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows:
To Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum .. £lOO,OOO 0 0
„ Augmentation of the Re-
serve Fund 25,000 0.0
„ *The Buckland Fund .. 15,000 0 0
„ Balance carried forward 29,314 7 5
169,314 7 5
£177,534 16 1 5
['The Buckland Fijnd was established by the late Thomas
Buckland, by personal contribution of £l5OO during his
lifetime, to provide for exceptional cases of officers not
covered by the Provident Fund Rules.]
By Amount from last Account .. .. £27,732 11 6
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
viding- for Bad and Doubtful Debts,
Fluctuations in the Value of Invest-
ment Securities, reducing the Valua-
tion of Bank Premises, and including
Recoveries from Debts previously
written off as Bad .. ~ 149,802 4 11
£177,534 16 5
Dr.
RESERVE FUND, 31st MARCH, 1 907.
Cr.
To Balance .. ... ..£1,600,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities, and the
balance is employed in the business of
the Bank.)
£1,500,000 0 0
By Balance £1,475,000 0 0
~ Amount from Profit and Loss.. .. 25,000 0 0
£1,500,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. £1,500,000 0 0
J. BUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Government j|§|f||pr Notices.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR FROM
FARMERS WHO HAVE VACANCIES
FOR FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should be given as to whether experienced hands or beginners are required, and also
as to wages offered. A large number of capable men are reaching New South Wales weekly from the
agricultural districts of Great Britain.
H. C. L. ANDERSON, Director Intelligence Department,
2i102 Phillip and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
RODS
For Locating' MINES)
LOST TREASURE&c.
The Latest Improved;
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON.. 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by. Tom Collins 4s. 6d. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. 6d.; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. 6d. ; The Southern Garland 4s. 6d.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
office. A representative group of Australian
books.
g
A RAZOR OF QUALITY.
The Plum .Razor is the best razor you can buy, no
matter what you pay. It is a Razor of quality. Its
goodness lies in thie steel blade, which is the finest
money can buy.
The PLUM Razor,
10/6 Post Free to any Address in the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St„ Sydney,
LfflJ LaJ 1 a I
WILL FORTIFY YOUR HEALTH
w
S 3
m.
0
□0
u
The delicious flavor of “ 0.T.,” gentle at first, increases as it passes
over the tongue, and there is never a gap, never a hint of foreign
substance. Purity is, of course, essential to this smoothness and unity of
flavor. The flavor of “0.T.” is full and generous, evaporates slowly, and
caresses the whole palate.
Try it with Soda, Lemonade, Water, Wines or Spirits.
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
Sydney : Orme, Keigwin & Co. Brisbane : Quinlan, Gray & Co.
Adelaide: Tolley & Co. Fremantle: Tolley Ltd.
High S? Prahran.
•
As Supplied
Under Royal Warrant
fdg
To His Majesty
The King.
44
BOOMERANG”
BRAND'S
-
2?
%
v\ v <
\\v
m
m
m
-
!41»£
Kf
/to/ \
St
w
■J. J
IS PURE GRAPE
BRANDY.
No matter what you pay you
can’t get anything better,
FOR NOTHING BETTER’S MADE.


Impossible to Get Employment, as
Face and Body Were Covered With
Itching Sores—Scratched Till
Flesh Was Raw—Spent Hun-
dreds of Dollars on Doctors and
Hospitals and Grew Worse,
CURED BY CUTICURA
IN FIVE WEEKS
“Since the year 1894 I have been
troubled with a very bad case of
eczema which I have spent hundreds
df
of dollars trying
to cure, and I went
to the hospital,
but they failed to
cure me and it
was getting worse
all the time. Five
weeks ago my wife
bought a box of
Cuticura Oint-
ment and one
cake of Cuticura
Soap, and I am
pleased to say that I am now completely
cured and well.
"It was impossible for me to get
employment, as my face, head, and
body were covered with it. The
eczema first appeared on the top of
my head, and it had worked all the
way around down the back of my neck
and around to my throat, down my
body and around the hips. It itched
so I would be obliged to scratch it,
and the flesh was raw.
"I would first wash the affected
parts with warm water and Cuticura
Soap, and then apply Cuticura Oint-
ment and let it remain on all night, and
in the morning I would use Cuticura
Soap. lam now all well, which all
my friends can testify to, and I will be
pleased to recommend the Cuticura
Remedies to any and all persons who
wish a speedy and permanent cure of
skin diseases.” Thomas M. Rossiter,
Mar. 30,1905. East Orange, N. J.
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns& Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for Every
Humour, from Pimpleß to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
03-Mailed Free, “All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cl
TRADE
FUMiCO
MARK.
This is an exquisite aromatic for burning
in sick rooms, imparting thereto a delight-
ful odor. It is very economical in use, for
a Is. Bottle will last for months.
PRICE, Is. PER BOTTLE.
Double Size, Is. 9d.
If unobtainable locally send price, together with
the name and address of your chemist, to
BLOGG BROTHERS,
24-3 S Spencer-St., MELBOURNE,
who will see that you are supplied.
N.B.— Free sample sent for Id. stamp, any State.
REX
Tire,
rtic
1
The "FLUE”
is a Tyre of the very
Highest Grade, guaran-
teed for 12 Months,
possessing remarkable
flexibility and wearing
properties.
The “DADDY”
is guaranteed for 6
Months, but it will
compare favorably
with the best class
tyres on the market.
Ask your Dealer for
“FLITE” or “DADDY.”
Barnet GiAsyq
85 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY. |
The Standard Remedy which has outlired the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1995.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
ON THE HOP I—3oo of “ Hop’s ” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office
The simple, safe,
and reliable laxative, pleasant
to taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in
results—the laxative which restores strength
to the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
all impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
effectively stimulates the action of the Liver, Bowels
and Kidneys in Nature’s gentle way—is
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
The valuable tonic action of California Syrup of Figs, io
conjunction with its agreeable cleansing and corrective
properties, gradually overcomes the distressing
tendency to Habitual Constipation.
Sold by Chemists at 1/3 and 1/11 only. Be sure you
see the circular Trade Mark (as shown here)
printed in blue at the top of the
package.
SI
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES’
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
Our Booklet, “Shoelight,” that illus-
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
gfd
LEEMING’S BOOT Stores
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 &3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
The Most Comfortable and Best Appointed Hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere.
MRS. MACLURCAN -
Proprietress.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
is of great value as a “ Pick-me-up.”
Bovril is guaranteed to be free from any added preservative
in conformity with the Commonwealth regulations.
We are on the SPOT
WITH
• iiiw V/-: 1 /'ASM mw"
‘flLww %#J W'I'M" "n
■III® M
The •
Onlv
Subsrihife
for • *
ALCOC/fG C?rry.M j£/££ £raSr
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball. .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms —
422 GEORGE STREET
The Inky Way.
“David H. Richards ” : “Prank Morton ” (B. 23/5/’O7)
is right when he says tliat copy got off'the beaten tracks
is not required by reputable newspapers in this part of
the globe ; and, anyhow, at current rates, it would not be
worth while producing- it. There is any quantity of good
copy to be had in Sydney, but it won’t pay for the trouble
required to get it. The Bulletin is the only paper that
will print anything smacking of originality and truth that
touches institutions; etc. ; and, of course, it couldn’t give
every scribe a living, even were it twice as big. Not far
from where I live there is a mission headquarters, or
backquarters, or something, that thieves money in
the name of the Lord by very shady methods.
I would be quite willing to undergo the extreme
inconvenience and repugnant associations that would be
necessary' to learn its inmost workings and to affidavit a
written account, but the daily rags would either scoff at
such copy (preferring an article on “The Glory of our
Parks,” or “The Life of a Jackeroo”), or they would
want it as a letter. I know another alleged charitable
institution in Sydney' that would yield first-class copy,
but no journalist would tackle the task of getting it for
the sake of a paragraph. He’d want to make a fiver out
of the job, at least. But our daily' suppress is too smug,
or too spineless, or too something.
* * » •
Dunedin Star has decided that it will publish no more
accounts of “large and enthusiastic meetings” unless
one of its own staff really gazes upon the size and the
enthusiasm. The Maoriland papers are nOt given to pay'-
ing any more men than they can help, so they have been
quite content to take reports of meetings from secretaries
and other interested people, so long as the reports were
written plainly and on one side of the paper only. This
sort of thing would probably have gone on for another 50
years had not an enterprising gentleman set to work to
manufacture public opinion. He knew' the weakness of
the local press, and turned it to account. He held
enormous and enthusiastic meetings about something or
other, and held them often and in many places, and filled
up the dailies with good accounts of the stirring speeches
delivered thereat. One night, a Star man sought out
one-of these meetings. He found it to consist of half-a-
dozen friends, who sat round a table drinking whisky and
soda, while the promoter sat at a typewriter deftly
tapping off his report. Then the Star shut down on the
manufacturer of public opinion with a heavy bang.
* c * *
“Hexham”: Re pirated leaders (B. 2/5/07), I once
worked under a North of England editor who, five days a
week, stole political articles from far-away published ex-
changes. He used to localise or topicalise the first and
last sentences with “The telegraph informs us,” or
“Such is not, however, the opinion of the Liberals of
South Shields,” and let the rest rip.
* e » »
Refreshing to pick up a recent number of the New
Zealand Times. It contains an effective exposure by Dr.
Mason of various patent medicine frauds, and a straight-
forward article criticising the Maoriland Exhibition’s idea
of e couraging home literature, which concludes
“There is already a sufficient nucleus of Maoriland
prose to furnish material for a special and badly-needed
class of school-books, and the files of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, and volumes of verse sufficient to make a sma.l
library, may' be drawn upon almost inexhaustibly by any
firm that cares to produce a series of Maoriland poetry
books. The average Maoriland child or man or woman
is hopelessly ignorant of the small beginnings of
our literature, and nobody takes any' pains to give them
enlightenment. After all, perhaps the Exhibition story
competition had better be thankfully received, small as
may be its effectiveness, and awful as may' be its fruits.
We observe that the judge is an Australian magazine
editor and proprietor, who, by furnishing Australasia
with certain excellent magazines, consisting almost
entirely of foreign ‘borrowed’ matter, has probably
done more to de-popularise and damage Australian
literary production than any man of his time. Mr.
Fitchett may be a good judge of short stories ; we do not
know. He is certainly unknown to literary Australia,
and we must profess surprise that the Exhibition authori-
ties have not appointed a Maoriland judge, or, at the
very least, a literary critic of some standing.”
That’s the sort of straight talk we don’t get from Aus-
tralian dailies.
* * * *
“X.”: From a careful study of articles in the dailies, lam
slowly compiling a leader-writer’s phrase-book, contain-
ing the very cream of opening sentences. A few
samples:—
“It will be noted with approval that ”... (Sets the
tone for an outpouring of maternal praise.)
“ The community will experience a sense of relief in
learning ”...
“Nothing but congratulation is to be offered to the
Ministry' on ” ...
“ We learn with unfeigned delight that ”...
That is the gamut up which the “ cordial ” article runs.
When the Great Daily sets out to state its wrath it has
another scale:—
“ General uneasiness has been aroused by the announce-
ment that ” .. i
“ The limits of propriety are almost exceeded in the
action of ” ...
“ Grave dissatisfaction will be felt” . . .
“‘A gross scandal’ is the only term which we can
apply' to ...
’ * * t
v Sydney Telegraph, which has turned over to the Pie-
bald Australia party, is the champion somersault per-
former. Twenty years ago it used to print things like
this : • °
The time is evidently not far off when the accept-
ance of a title from the Colonial Office will be an effectual
bar to a political career, and when it will even lie under
the same kind of stigma as used to attach to the receipt
of a pension from the Court, or, still worse, from the
Court of a foreign country.
That, as already mentioned, was 20 years ago.
* * * *
“ That’s mine when you’ve done with it,” as the owner
of the reputation remarked to the rampant journalist.
THE BLOOD AND THUNDER BANNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These remarks (by Colonel Foster, R.E.) suggested to
us that it would be well to give a series of articles de-
scribing the chief features of great campaigns and battles.
They will be written by Mr. Donald Macdonald. —Bugle
Call of the Argus.
Ho 1 Granny Argus rises from her blood-bespattered lair ;
She waves the office besom, and unfurls Medusa hair;
She drummeth with a loud pom-pom, and blows a crim-
son air.
She wields her goose quill like a sword, her gamp becomes
a gun,
In word hysterics she’ll record how gory fields were won,
Till paralytic types, Goud Lord, in red ink columns run.
On corpses raised the Editor will sell his tall hat dear;
And Donald Mae will hold the floor, and spill the ruddy
beer
For bugler he, and matador, and football buccaneer.
He’ll tell bloodthirsty 7 histories of battles long ago,
How Xerxes fell to Pericles, how Judkins bit the foe,
And Hannibal, who crossed the seas, blew out to Scipio.
We’ll hear old battle canticles of bones in storied urns,
Napoleonic chronicles for which still Granny yearns,
And (when they sign their articles) how Bill Squires outed
Burns.
The school kid and the office boy will read with faces
pale
Till Deadwood of the Gulch will cloy, and Fitchett’s
Bleeds will stale,
And battles dire ’twixt ’Wood and ’Boy in warlike fervor
fail.
In bugle tones the staff will speak of blood-stained
modesty 7,
Professor Tucker, once a week, talk blood philology,
And leaderettes anemic squeak their bloody policy.
For, bellicose, the Editor will blushing battles baste,
His scissors drip imported gore—he’ll splash the purple
paste
Till sanguine juice is spattered o’er the journalistic waste
YIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Yes-No’s deputy, the unpleasant Joe
Ooolc, has been laying a church-hall foundation
stone, and, applauding the church that provided
miniature rifle-ranges, &c., said “it was a duty
to defend the blessings of the civilisation we
possessed against the attacks of an inferior
civilisation,'and therefore every man and boy
should learn the use of the rifle.” A bullet may
be the unpleasant Cook’s way of protecting the
civilisation we possess ; but when the foreigner
attacks us with his goods, made under the condi-
tions of his “inferiorcivilisation,” what’s the use
of a bullet then ? Wo are not even allowed to
shoot J. Cook, though he encourages those goods
to come.
A little Sydney pub, somewhat historic, is
in the market. It is at the corner of Elizabeth
and Kettle streets, Redfern, and is known as
The Australian Eleven Hotel. The street, named
after Jack Kettle, the old-time cricketer, forms a
part of what was the Albert Cricket Ground of
the ’sixties and ’seventies. Jack Kettle in the
late ’sixties opened the Cricketers’ Rest in Pitt-
street, Redfern. The pub at the Albert Ground
was established in 1872 by Erederick Lewis Lyons
or Lyon, who was, writer believes, a lithographer
by profession ; he called the house The Old Lion.
He kept it for about six years, when Jack Kettle
came into possession and called it the Australian
Eleven Hotel, and it has retained the name ever
since. The property is still in the Kettle family,
though the site of the old Albert Ground is now
covered with bricks and mortar, and harbors a
colony of bundle-carrying Syrians.
| SPIES’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
NEW COLORINGS JUST LANDED.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAI & CO,
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
$65
GILSON MFG. CO
GOES LIKE SIXTY
SELLS LIKE SIXTY j
SELLS FOR SIXTY
GILSON
GASOLENE
ENGINE
For Pumping, Cream
Separators, Chums, Wash Ma-
chines, etc, FREE TRIAL
"1 Askfor catalog-all sizes
ltd. Dept. L, Guelph, Ontaria
g
TWENTIETH CENTURY
Steam Merry-go-round
Latest Up-to-date Machine.
Tent Revo/ves. No Stakes or Guy
Lines.
Good Money-Making Concern.
HERSCHELL, SPILLMAN AND GO.,
North Tonowanda, N.Y., U.S.A.
Australian Representatives:
Wm. ADAMS & CO. LTD., 521-3 Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues.
Beautiful Home Decorations
fd
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“BAPOEIN” FLOOR STAINS stain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“BAPOEIN” All imr.n I:\A11 HI. gives unsightly Pipes, Boilers,
or anything made ot metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
JAPANESE GOLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease ot application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENBORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
Whisky
ALL LEADING HOTELS, -spa®
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
SALT *
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says£-
u This famous salt maintains its qualities for digestibility and savour. Besides
chloride of sodium this preparation contains phosphates which render
Cerebos Salt not only a flavouring ingredient, but a food in itself.”
Aeents—Harrison Attwood , Sydney-
Don’t
“DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 75% of Cases of Old
or ~Y n
Our FREE BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES are dangerous things foryou to “doctor”
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent", of
cases of deafness of people who write us. 75 per cent.
of cases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
Write us the
History of
Your Case and
We will ad-
vise you. Free.
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
THE
elected;
brings back
lost
hear' hC j
young-, whether you have
been deaf long or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and WE WILL
tell you whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you DON’T, we can.
We can, because, as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will semi you FREE, we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. 1 "tells you the names and addresses of
hundreds of people who formerly were deaf, and who
could only be cn ed by using Mr. Vernon’s Electricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain, because if
we can’t ' lure your case we will
say so at t nee.
That costs yet nothing, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-day.
THE L. R. VERNON GO.
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
105,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed !!! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry ts.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler .
371 George Street,
BOOKS
EWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send lor List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post Iree, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How TO Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
gfd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “ PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Br Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., With full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Bd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Pocltry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, 13
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of S' -hal
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the ScokE &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, 5s
Decameron of Boccaccio, llepTameron, and ma> /
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the Fr at
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it,
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Cloq Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1i» id. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alt 1 Agrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Booth over 300 lacest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Suga-
r Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illps., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
g
fd
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
“ HARNESS THE WIND ”
WITH
MARTISM’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering: elsewhere.
James Martin & Go.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
PRICE 27/G
THE "LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
™ e - NEW LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABTICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, ad the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUCCY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c. for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
ALL THE WORLD KNOWS
THAT
Biliousness is due to a disordered state of the liver and can
only be cured by restoring that organ to natural healthy
action. This MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP does, promptly and
thoroughly, because it acts directly on the liver, stomach
and bowels. That is why it always cures, not only biliousness,
but indigestion and constipation as well. Why not give this
great medicine a fair trial? You will not be disappointed.
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
I subject to bad bilious attacks and indigestion, with
all their attendant horrors. Acute headaches, constipation,
flatulence, fulness and oppression-I had them all. I was
hardly ever free from pain, and the many medicines I took
Yer y weak and ill when a friend advised
MOTHER SEIGEL S SYRUP I took the Pills too. and between
them they completely restored my health" —Mrs Alice Whyte.
4, Little Gore Street, Fitzroy, Victoria
OU RES
BILIOUSNESS
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed,
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention -s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ONE of the first things a man should ask
himself about shaving soap is, what will
be its effect on my face? Will it leave it in a
soft and healthful condition or sore and irri-
tated? The unique quality of
Williams s »
is that it always has a soothing, re-
freshing and antiseptic
effect on the skin and
keeps the face in the
pink of condition.
gfd
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers
all over the world, or mailed to any address on re-
ceipt of price in stamps. Williams’ Shaving Sticks,
Is.; Williams’ Luxury Tablets, Is.; Williams' Amer-
ican Shaving Tablets, 6d. (Trial size) of Williams’
Shaving Stick, 2d.
The J. B. Williams Company
65 Gt. Russell St., London, W. C.; 4 Kue Chauveaux Lagarde, Paris;
161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South Wales. Head office and
factories, Glastonbury, Conn., U. S. A.
DO YOU KNOW THAT
the latest motive power, and one
that is coming rapidly into almost
universal use is what is known as
M
SUCTION CAS?
This little illustration shows the kind
of plant. It is...
CAPEL’S COMBINED X,L. OTTO CAS
ENCINE and SUCTION CAS PRODUCER.
It is five times cheaper than ordinary gas, and at least TWENTY
TIMES cheaper than ELECTRICITY. YOU CAN RUN A
TEN-HORSE POWER ENGINE FOR LESS THAN ONE
PENNY PER HOUR.
Send for Booklet and farther particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., LTP., Sole Ageijts
7 and 9 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
The Premiers’ Conference got very sick of
the cantankerous Carruthers after a week of his
Police Court manners and methods. The last
straw was when he asked the rest to join him in
being cantankerous with regard to the taking
over of the Northern Territory. Disregarding the
fact that the Territory didn’t originally belong
to South Australia, and wasn’t tacked on to
it till 1863, and then was only tacked on
to it in an indefinite sort of way, because it
couldn’t any longer be left lying around loose,
and had to be temporarily fastened on to some-
thing—disregarding all this, Carruthers said that
South Aus. was merely “palming off” its bad
debts on to the rest, and sticking to its good ones.
Carruthers’ utter inability to see the matter from
anything but the small State-insect point of view so
disgusted some other States, which could see that
there was a matter of Australian safety involved,
that Victoria and Queensland simply declined to
vote on his sore-headed motion. But he fooled
the Westralian pair into supporting him; and
when they reflect that the Territory agree-
ment provides for the construction of the Wes-
tralian transcontinental railway, as well as the
Northern Territory railway, and that, voting
against one they vote against the other, they
will, no doubt, be a very disgusted pair indeed.
“ Stony ” sends this :
That considerably decayed Melbourne body, the
Accountants and Clerks’ Association, at present sojourn-
ing in rooms over a fish-shop, has been made the subject
of several unkind attacks in connection with the clerk-
sweating question. Once more it has been mentioned by
poorly-paid clerks as an old-established institution which
has failed to justify its existence. At present, apart from
the fact that it is a club, badly-furnished, and smelling of
dead fish, and patronised by a very small percentage of its
alleged 1000 members, the Association is merely a labor
bureau, which spasmodically advertises for three office
boys at 7s. 6d. a week, and a junior typist at 15s.
In a letter to the Argus (16/5/’O7) the Board of this
Association made several remarks which had moss on
them, and were gone in the knees. Like this: “That
sweating exists we are not prepared to deny, but, speak-
ing from the experience of the association work, we have
no direct evidence that such is the case.” In a letter,
written on the same day, and not in reply to the Board’s
effusion, an emphatic cuss wrote to the Argus (printed
17/5/’O7) that “ thirty shillings seems to be the recognised
wage now to offer clerks, and I have not heard of the
association placing any one of its members even at that
highly-remunerative salary for some considerable time.”
Another outburst in the letter of the blind, mumbling
old A. and O. Board is that “as regards the ques-
tion of legislati n, we fail to see that such a
step would tend to the betterment of the con-
dition of the clerk. It would make little differ-
ence to the seniors, but the services of the least efficient
would speedily be dispensed with. . . . The attempt to
organise the clerks in any numbers is practically hope-
less.” This admitted impotence of the A. and O. Ass., as
well as its senility in argument, must finally settle its
claim to be regarded as a pro-clerical show. Instead of
paying a secretary £3 or £4-a week to hunt up 30-bob-a-
-week jobs, and to provide Board-rooms for a Board that
won’t do anything but talk about the unsweated con-
dition of the pen-pusher, the sweated one should rush
the Clerks’ Union and clamor for admittance, and, if he
gets the sack for trying to better himself by legislating,
let him go and work in a factory or handle a pick and
shovel. It’s astonishing how much self-respect a man
can feel after a day’s hard work with his muscles, par-
ticularly when he is paid more for it than for shoving a
quill over a sheet of pale-blue paper for 10 hours a day.
The British War Office has issued a really
remarkable little handbook for the benefit of
soldiers. It contains a list of technical terms, and
some of the definitions are models of perspicuity.
For instance: “Explosive—that which explodes ” ;
“interior—the inside”; “ignite—to set on fire.”
Plainly, when the enemy comes he will find Bull
ready and waiting.
A suggestion by “ Num,” who seems suffi-
ciently callous to be a large promoter of wild
cats :
I have a rlieme for providing the public with cheap,
healthy amusement, and, at the same time, reducing the
State expenditure on criminal detention, and affording
those who have offended against the law a better oppor-
tunity of reform than they now possess. The scheme is
not wholly original. Its main principles were practised
in ancient Borne, and all I propose is to modify the
Bornan procedure. Briefly, my idea is to revive gladia-
torial combats, having a display, say, every three months.
The combatants would consist of long-sentence prisoners
doing time in different gaols. What I would do is
to make every prisoner with five years’ detention still
ahead of him a gladiator. He would be allowed
three months in which to become proficient in the use of
the net and trident or the broadsword, whichever he pre-
ferred, and would then be pitted against a fellow
prisoner of his own weight and skill. The victors at each
set of games would have the remainder of their sen-
tences . automatically remitted, and go forth free
men with laurel on their brows. The losers would
be accorded a big funeral, and the public would
have a good afternoon’s excitement. In some cases,
of course, there would be no victor, and both com-
batants would be buried. That would be the State’s
gain. As it would be manifestly unfair to allow one out of
every two individuals who had committed capital offences
to go free, I wou.d suggest that murderers should be
allowed to accumulate until there are ten or a dozen in
stock. Then I would give each a sword or tomahawk and
turn the lot loose in the arena, to battle until there was
one left. It would be a thrilling spectacle, and the
community could well afford to allow one murderer his
liberty with the certainty of getting rid of nine or 11.
Besides in most cases the law would soon get
a second shot at the prisoner who escaped.
When Darby Smith and Spud Malone went forth free as
the victors from the January games, they would
immediately resume their profession as garroters and
burglars, and, in all probability, would be again serving
another long sentence by April. The result would be
that they would appear for the July display, and, meeting
one another, would reduce their ranks by fifty per cent.
The same thing would apply all round, and in about
eighteen months there would be quite a scarcity of high-
class criminals—in fact a time would come when the last
of the crowd would have to appear in the arena alone,
and fight with himself. I would like to hear the opinion
of Inspector-General Neitenstein on my project.
Auckland (M.L.) is again considering the
advisability of cutting through the mile and a
half of land that separates Waitemata and
Manukau harbors, and thus bringing the city of
Auckland 480 miles nearer the west, whence all
the great ships come. With the opening of the
North Island Trunk Railway, the ancient capital
of Maoriland expects to become the distributing
port for the whole of the North Island, but in its
trade with Australia 1J miles of land add about
500 miles to the distance, as compared with
Wellington, while in the trade between Auckland
and the Maoriland West Coast that same 1 \ miles
of obstruction make 1000 miles extra distance.
The cutting of the canal would place Auckland on
an equal footing with the great central seaport,
and as in the course of time there is bound to be a
big population around Auckland owing to the
immense deposits of coal, manganese and other
valuable minerals at Whangarei, the commence-
ment of that canal will be the signal for a terrific
land boom in the northern city and parts
adjacent thereto. The canal has been talked of
ever since the far-off day when Hori Grey first
mentioned it, but southern jealousy has always
been strong enough to prevent the Government
attempting the work. Now that Auckland has
grown vvealthy, the city talks of putting up the
money itself. In the meantime the usual “ strong I
syndicate” has been formed, and is taking levels,
sinking holes, and doing other preliminaries while
it amb es round talking about a “concession.”
They are great on “concessions” in Auckland. |


THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
£3
tL •
\
T'HIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping, and
1 is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
C'unts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lO 10s.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The
UNDERWOOD
"All-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £2O,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BLICK £lO (SL £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
DlfliVc GOUT AND
liia.ll RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
eou
a
DR. J. GOLDS BROWSE'S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS. COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, *O. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
; Sept. 28,1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
ITPITF FOR WRITING.
JL * 1* GUARANTEED Cure for
Drunkenness.
We are giving- away Free Samples of the world-renowned EUCRASY.
Send for Booklet: and Sample ; enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
Call on or Address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
FACTS ABOUT THE
EUCRASY Treatment.
The Celebrated Cure for the
LIQUOR
TOBACCO
DRUG HABIT.
If you are addicted to Drinking, Smoking, or the use of Drugs, in any form, and you
now suffer the consequences, you must not delay in availing yourself of the
EUCRASY TREATMENT for the following reasons :
Because
The Eucrasy Cure has
been successfully used
for over 30 years
throughout the world,
and 11 years in Aus-
tralia.
Because
The Cure is positive
and permanent. It is
agreeable to take, no
injections or painful
operations of any kind.
Because
The effect of the
treatment on the
nerves is marvellous.
The Eucrasy is a life-
saver. There are no
bad after-effects.
Because
About one million
patients have already
been cured, over 10
thousand of whom
were in Australia.
Because
Each patient treats
himself, at his own
home without incon-
venience or loss to his
daily vocation.
Because
The craving- for alco-
hol is entirely stopped
in a few days, and a
permanent cure is
effected in from one
to two weeks.
Because
Several thousands of
Australian Testi-
monials are on file in
our offices. Many are
from Clergymen and
prominent public men.
Because
People addicted to
drinking, without re-
alising- their own
folly, can be cured
secretly, even against
their will, and with-
out their knowledge.
All cases are treated
Confide ntially and
with absolute privacy.
Letters and packages
are forwarded in plain
envelopes, sealed from
observation.
Because
Physicians, Clergy-
men, Politicians, the
Press, and Business
Men of high standing
endorse tne Euerasy
Treatment.
Because
Our specially prepared
remedy, In powder
form, is tasteless and
odorless, and can be
administered in food
without the patient’s
knowledge.
For further informa-
tion, call or address
the
EUCRASY GO.,
62 Hunter-st., Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Mgr.
GOING
BALD ?
Hair coining away by
the combful ?
•Scalp covered with scurf,
dandruff, and itchy
crustations ?
Forehead g'etting' •• in-
terlectual ” ?
"That Bald Spot” get-
ting' larg'er?
Use
CAPILLA
Hair Tonic.
It will stop the fall, clear the head of Scurf and
Dandruff, and make the hair grow on that bald
spot if a particle of “ down ” exists on it.
There’s a -£lOOO guarantee back of these asser-
tions.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL “ OAPILLA.”
1/6 & 2/6 a Bottle.
Full course (6 Bottles) posted free lf/3. Inter-
state 19/2, with letter of advice from W. O.
RICHARDS, Savings Bank Chambers, Moore
Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New'
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten,.lod. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
&
iff
\\v
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don't you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing
doctors does not cure you. You are trying one medicine after the other
with the same disgusting disappointment. You are a “ medicine doser,”
and the only change in your condition is for the worse. Why don't you.
stop tKis medicine Habit? Why don't you avail
yourself of the modern remedy? Proceed on Nature’s own
lines. Use the life-giving, healing, strengthening forces of Electricity!
This is the electric age. You can see on every hand the wonders of Electricity.
You don’t need doctors; you don’t need medicine, for medicine gives no
nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we apply it and you
will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to
the breakingrdown of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its alotted task
the entire human machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health—even life
—is to rebuild the weak part which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply
of vital electric energy. This can only be properly done with the new improved
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now
admit it, but there has been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is
crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good.
Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . . Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHUN’S
ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shocK, no burning or blistering, and
you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all Kinds, Varicocele
Rheumatism, Weak BacK, Sciatica, Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys!
Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free Book, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liRe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CAIila for Free Consultation.
McLaughlin
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Office Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McLaughlin co.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castleraagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
2
A FORTUNE IS CERTAIN
if only the exact opportunities of life are known, and taken full advantage of when they occur, but that
is the difficulty in ordinary life. There is no reason why those opportunities should not be fully
recognised and used, and the means to this end is Astrology. If you are a sceptic, or a truth-
seeker, and have been misled by one or other of the ignorant frauds who lurk under a showy but false
name, read the following unprecedented offer that Robert Herschell makes to the public :
Send Stamps or Postal Note or Money Order for Is. 2d., with date, month, and year of birth, and
A knowledge of Astrology is
only possible after many years of
laborious study and research. Mr.
Herschell has calculated many
thousands of “ Horoscopes ” for
clients, amongst whom are one of
the Reigning Monarchsof Europe,
the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Mr.
W. E. Gladstone, and many
thousands of the public.
A TEST HOROSCOPE OF FIVE LARGE PAGES,
and judged by R. Ilerschell from the planetary positions at your birth, each test beinglseparately judged. “ REFEREE ” says “ The prince of Living Astrologers.”
If the Horoscope is incorrect Money will be Returned.
Many hundreds of flattering testimonials have been received by R. Hersehell. Following is a sample
107 Queen Street, Melbourne, December 19th, 1906.
Advertising Manager,
Name.
‘ Life," and “ New Idea.’
Fill in, cut out, and send this Advertisement.
Address Full date of Birth
ROBERT HERSCHELL, “ Wood vi He,” Mont Albert, MELBOURNE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON &. CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 55.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queena-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
fhe Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. O. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C. i
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Dorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Qank of flew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
GOVERNfIENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
rj'HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
THE SAYINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repaj'ment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH, V
P. E. WILLIAMS, i- Commissioners.
W. H. O’M. WOODj
gank of f|em South (Dales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ... .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total .. ... .. 55,00,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. On arles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir Jambs R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt, M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors :
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks: and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo Id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
ON THE HOP!
Price 213. T:n Bjlletix Office, Sydney
Shipping.
3ST. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Geno ,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Adi-
hsi e
2 p ill
Jll K 'l
July 1 •
Aug. 16
Sep. 13
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MAHILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEI Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGI, )NG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDi-MAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
PRINZ SICISi.-UND .. .. 30th JULY.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
Unsurpassed Setgoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal j|ank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 6
£701,351 0 j
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matth ,vs
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, F 2.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspon Ants
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FR-MAETLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS .. .. I R. B. V. McKilliam I Noon, June 21
fDAMASCUS . | H. A. Schleman .. | No n, July 19
*MILTIADES .. | A. Douglas, R.N.R. i Noon. Aug. 10
t3rd Class Passengers only. *Twin Screw. Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £16 Os to £20 Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £31 10s.. £13 13s to £17 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORI.D Tickets from £115.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
g
PLYMOUTH & LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
CUFIC only) to sail about 15th
J UNE.
PERSIC, to sail about 12th JULY,
RUNIC, to sail aljout 9th AUGUST.
MEDIO, AFRIC an.g, SUEVIO to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to' £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyet/y anil Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malai ta ■ to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortlanu Islands (2 ports),
Solomon 1.-lands (about 8
fdg
CRUISES.>
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet .
BURL’S, PHILP & CO., Ltd., TO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mef.ks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Cash-bull Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessof, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grim wade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COQDWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(luvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hoii. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Legal Notice.
WHEREAS by an Order of the High Court of Justice
Chancery Division dated the sth March 1907
made in the Matter of the Estate of William Parker de-
ceased Blundell v. Parker 1906 P. No. 1674, the following
Enquiry was directed namely whether Frederick Parker
the son of the said Testator’s son William Parker was
living or dead at the date of the death of the said Tes-
tator and if he died since the Testator who is his legal
personal representative.
Notice is hereby given that the said Frederick Parker
or if he died since the death of the Testator on the 26th
September 1888 his legal personal representatives and all
persons claiming to be interested under the said Enquiry
are by their Solicitors on or before the 12th day of Oc-
tober 1907 to come in and prove their claims at the
Chambers of Mr. Justice Warrington and Mr. Justice
Parker at the Royal Courts of Justice Strand London or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded
from the benefit of the said Order.
Friday the 18th day of October 1907 at 11 o’clock in the
forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the Claims.
Dated this 23rd day of April 1907.
RICHD. WHITE,
Master.
Note.—The above named Frederick Parker went to
Australia in or about the year 1882 and was last heard of
at Adelaide South Australia in the year 1884.
CLAUDIUS GEO.' ALGAR,
17 Abchurch Lane, London,
England,' Solicitor.
OCEAN
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE SCENIC ROUTE
TO LONDON IS
via CANADA.
Steamers Saji, for Vancouver—
•MANUKA - - Stli JULY
AORANGI - - sth AUG.
*Twin Screw.
PASSENGERS BOOKED TO ANY PART
OF AMERICA OR TO EUROPE.
Round the World Tours
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS,
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars.^
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Mana'tring Agents, Georsre-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
RASY TERMS.
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.’w.
fflontdepieteO.iil.Co.Jtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
1T HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Rabbit tSKins.
We are CASH BUYERS for Export.
Top Prices Guaranteed. ; No Commission.
JAMES FAY, McDONAED & CO.
(Established 1889.)
44 Daigrety street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Raven sthorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Claims.
fS.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
June 26.
S.S. Yongala, June 15.
'S.S. Wollowra, June 22.
Sent and Cheapest Route to (} old Helds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUli-L & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritinies
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
FU Q FEDERAL—HOULDER—SHIRE CU C
-n-O, LINES r.11.0i
For LONDON and LIVERPOOL
(via Melbourne and Adelaide), calling at Durban to land
passengers.
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer—
ESSEX,
11,400 Tons. T. Young, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney' on the 12th JUNE, 1907
~ ~ ~ Melbourne „ 17th „ ' „
~ ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 22nd ~ „
Excellent Accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
Passengers.
The Saloon Accommodation consists of all two-berth
deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The Third Class Accommodation comprises 2,4, and
8 berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main deck,
with dining saloon on the upper deck.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
carried.
FARES— SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
Durban .. .. £2O £10; £11; £l2
Capetown .. .. £22 10s £lO 10s ; £ll Us ; £l2 12s
London & Liverpool £45 £l2 12s ; £l3 13s ; £l4 14s
To be followed at an interval of 28 days
by the Twin-screw Steamer —
DORSET,
11,300 Tons. W. L Prentice, Commander.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST QEDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMDER.
' EORGC HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swans ton-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel In Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION


LTwTvlJvlw-IwJwl^lwiaj^
[fit’s from
STEWART DAWSOHS
its good.
Write the
store nearest\
you.
K
©©©©©©©©©©©©©
Modern Jewels
AT
Stewart Dawson’s
By a combination of Good Luck and Ready Cash we have just managed
to secure a Big Parcel of Fine Australian Opal. Good Opal is very scarce
just now. The Continental buyers snap up at once all the good Opal they
can find. We have been busy mounting them up as Brooches in 15-carat
Gold of most artistic and modern designs, and we expect a prompt apprecia-
tion of their extreme beauty. We have decided to make the price so low that
the majority of our Lady Customers can readily possess at least one piece.
If desired, we can substitute for the Opals, Green Queensland Sapphires.
VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonS 1 :?
WEST. AUSTRALIA //L
395&397 Hay S.? Perth «[l
QUEENSLAND [( V V
QueenS Edward Brisbane'
NEW ZEALAND
H6&148 Queen S*. Auckland^"^^
1&3 LambtonQuay. Wellington-
-2368-2 33 HighS I ;Christchurch
Princes 8- DowlingS* Dunedin.
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery,
Silver and Silver-plated Goods
sent free on request. Your
Address on a Post Card will
bring them.
C 3338 —15-ct'. Gold and Real Pearl
Circle Brooch, £l/15/-.
D1579.—15-ct. Gold and Real Wing
Shape Pearl Brooch, £'2/15/-.
C332B—The “Lohengrin..” Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, Real Pearls, Rubies, and
Olivines, £B/10/-.
D1277—15-ct. Gold Brooch, set Fine
Whole Pearl and Diamond, £9/10/..
C 333 Gold Brooch and Pen-
dant, set Real Pearls and Green
Tourmaline, £3/10/-.
GB92B—Fine Diamond, Real Whole
Pearl, and 15-ct. Brooch, £B/8/-.
I
o
10.
11.
w
a
<o
o
13.
12
14.
sl|
t's
h 4--.
m
9^r
18
20.
&r
22.
•Pi-
S'
21.
23.
m
(A
25
26,
24
w
m
29?
28.
rB
27
30
31.
82
C3lB3—Pearl and Turquoise Laughing
Jackass Brooch, 15-ct. gold, £4/10/-.
D 1276— 15-ct. Gold Brooch, set Pine
Whole Pearl and Diamond, £7/10/-.
03334—15-ct. Gold, Real Pearl and Ceylon
Rubies, Set Brooch, £3/3/-.
C 3291— 15-ct. Gold Brooch, set Real
Pearls and Olivines, £4/4/-.
*
03331—15-ct. Gold, Real Pearl and Pink
Tourmaline Brooch and Pendant, £2/15/-
08930—Pine Diamond, Real Whole Pearl
and 15-ct. Gold Brooch, £7.
gffllKß"© CD
r;
v »
18-ct. Gold, Fine 18-ct. Gold and Pine
Opal and Green Green Sapphire .
Sapphire Ring, £4. £3/10/-.. *
C3332-—l5-ct. Gold Brooch
and Pendant, set Keal
Pearls and Australian
Rubies, £4/15/-.
C33438—-9-ct. Gold and Real
Pearl Brooch, 9/6.
C33l2—Beal Pearls and 15-et. Gold.
Brooch, £2/15/-.
A Handsome
03343 C—9-ct. Gold and Real
Pearl Brooch, 9/8.
03335—15-ct. Gold Brooch, set 1 Row Real Pearls,
and 1 Row Turquoise,£4.
G3314— 15-ct. Gold aud Heal Pearl Set Brooch, £2/7/6.
Order by Mail if unable to call. Money back
if we fail to please you.
fd
U J
C3313—15-ct. Gold and Real Pearl Set Brooch, £2/5/-.


r
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send ub your name and address and you will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Photo
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; ic describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
grad • Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
U/ITU THE ED EE ART R fin If you receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
If lin InC I nut Hill Dull IV ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we <a:i sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
.Vi£AD CYCLE CO., OEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL
A Chance of a
Lifetime !!
(226)
You ought to have a Land Roller!
You ought to have a Good One!
You ought to get it INOW when you can
secure it at a bargain !
THE “ INTERNATIONAL”
is the one that has had by far the largest
sale. Contains all the latest improve-
ments — Pressed steel heads enclosing
drums— Removable bushings — Com-
bination pole and shafts, etc.
EVERYONE SOLD has given the HIGHEST SATISFACTION.
Holds such a high place in the trade that one of our com-
petitors has complimented us by “originating” a roller
VERY like it.
m
Sizes 2 section, 26 In. diameter, width 8 ft.
•* »• *» •• „ 11 n
SPECIAL PRICES for June, ’07, orders only
8ft. — £9 5 O lift. — £13 lO O
EXTRAORDINARY TERMS: —£2 10 O cash with order and
balance of price by p/n due February 1, ’OS, no interest. Or
for cash with order —S ft., £S 10 O; lift., £12 10 O.
DELIVERY F.O.B. trucks at any of the cities printed below.
UNUSUAL GUARANTEE :— If roller isn’t entirely satisfactory
you can return to us, in good order, within one week of de-
livery, you pay one freight and we the other, we refunding all
cash paid by you and returning your p/n’s.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
Agents throughout Australasia
Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide.
Launceston, and
Christchurch.
Homoeopathy
H OM CEO PATHY jgjj
MEANS health^—'
%
Ql
?r
The
Secret
0f...
Health
TO THOSE
IN - -
ILL-HEALTH!
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedcnted success, and we are
g'lad to be able to state that tho
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism, GJb Allied
Complaints. Prostatic
AffedionS) Etc., are completely and permanently cured by
Patients living: at a distance, who wish
to give the HOMCEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated “ Homoeopathy is only in
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not flv to
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.” ' rural
VVe would like you to know more about our method, so in order that vou can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “ WORDS OP
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LTiNTI on Security of Freehold or Leasehold
xuvu il A JjtJjJM SJ City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors-— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. BY HAND LABOR.
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF.
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trustor Combine.
Manufacturers—
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
BE BEADY for WINTER’S TRIALS
BY BEING STRONG!
Nature uses Winter for a dual purpose in the matter of health.
Winter benefits those people who are in sound health, for the cooler
temperatures invigorate the system. Food is eaten with more zest, a
desire for exercise is created, and the day is followed by sound sleep,
which means real rest.
Nature also uses Winter to thin out the weaklings, and thus
maintain a better standard of health amongst the Race. In other
words Nature finds out the weak spots in Winter; and unless the
Weakling 1 makes himself a Strongling, a stern hand may be laid
upon his shoulder, and his weakened system go under.
Every Winter makes a heavy claim on those who are run down in
health, and consequently susceptible to pulmonary diseases. If you
are one of the weaklings or if you are in any way down in health at
this time of the year, secure the promptest means at your hands to
fortify yourself against the trials of Winter.
Who is it that is singled out for Rheumatism, Neuralgia, the
ravages of Consumption, the grip of Pneumonia, the wretchedness of
perpetual Chill ? Why, the person who leaves the wide door open for
disease to enter in; in other words the person who sets out on his
Winter Journey unequipped with the Shield of Health. To prepare
yourself you need to tone and brace the system with a good Tonic,
and there is not a better one known than-
CLEMENTS TONIC.
This wonderful Remedy and Restorative tones the nerves and
sets all the bodily functions working in perfect unison. Strength
comes to the muscles, vigour to the body, balance to the brain, rich-
ness to the blood. In, fact the glow of perfect health which keeps out
the cold and keeps up the energy is always followed after a course of
CLEMENTS TONIC.
Would you be forewarned to be forearmed? Then order some
CLEMENTS TONIC! to-day, and commence now to be a Strongling.
You are sure to reap great benefit from its use in all seasons.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS & STORES. Price 2/3 &3 9 per Bottle.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEK,
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaint*
of Men and 'Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure tl»e Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d
blood cure pills. gsKiftsssjasssaMaraMsa
— — ■ —■ —— ——— - Gravel OUI'US* U I'ui<xrjr x rwuKSA<o»a>. *•*»»- ".jz
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
UHpn|f Ulfnman Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, Z3,e.
bVGcIK ■■ IflllCll Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders es
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
urns PETER RASHUeeKM.


is the new face cream that will bring
natural beaut}- to the plainest face,
and will prevent the hot Australian summer
from spoiling your complexion.
Soap and water removes surface dirt only
and leaves irritating waste matter in t*he
pores of the skin. Oatine, the new face
cream, removes this waste and leaves the
skin fresh and clear, soothing and healing all
sores and blemishes.
It is made from fresh clean oats and con-
tains no animal fats nor injurious mineral
salts. No matter how hot the weather, it
will not go bad. It cannot grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Try Oatine now. It will remove all
freckles and prevent the dry heat of the
Australian sumpier robbing your complexion
of its bloom and loveliness. In dainty white
jars, 1/9, or larger size, containing four
times the amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
Vf IT'W suffering from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
A * TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug' Co., 88 Pitt St.. Sydney,
late Manager “Medical Review,” London, 25 years
chief consultant & Locum Tenens to Dr. BOY'D, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostician, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for over 30 years. Cure Guaranteed.
11HE BULLETIN POST CARDS— New
Series, IV.. V., VI, Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
m o
am
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
jarge bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
Price
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, Jewellery, etc, 210 Queen St., Brisbane
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
COMPOUND? for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Cough's and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Eases Asthma and relieves breathing-.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing-.
COAGULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
7 LINUM CATHARTICUM PILLS ’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN $ HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON, # Brfdsre #Loftus Sts., Sydney
Your Bowels
g
Here’s a picture of them. You have
over thirty feet of these in your body.
Just think. When you are constipated
it means that all the waste matter in these
thirty feet can’t get out. That’s why you
feel stuffed. That’s why you don’t have
an appetite. There’s no more room in-
side of you for food. But still you go on
eating, never stopping to think of the
complications which follow as you con-
tinue to force more food into your
stopped-up, overcrowded bowels. Can’t
you see how important it is to keep your
bowels in good working order ?
Nature intended the bowels to digest
your food and in order that they might
do this properly, nature has lined them
with hundreds of little cells which suck
up strength from the food as it passes
along. If your bowels are stopped; if
the food in them does not pass along, it
becomes stagnant, it decays, and instead
of giving up strength and nourishment,
it sends off poison. That’s when you
commence to belch. The decaying mat-
ter is sending off gas the same as any
other putrid matter does.
There is one way of making your bow-
els do their work as nature intended.
That way is Reuter’s Little Pills. They
stimulate and strengthen the bowel mus-
cles, and they do this in an entirely new
and different way from anything else.
Salts, cascara, jalap and the old fashion
pill simply blast out the bowel duct.
This means that the inside of the intes-
tines is wrecked. It means that all the
digestive juices which are so precious
are swept away. It means that the bow-
els are greatly weakened, and that you
will have to continue dosing yourself
oftener, and in greater quantities. Cas-
tor oil only greases the bowel duct. It
lets the matter slide through. It makes
the bowels more lazy and you find your-
self compelled to keep on taking the oil.
Reuter’s Little Pills act like exercise.
They act in a natural way. They build
up and restore the bowels to normal
strength.
This is a personal message to all those
who are afflicted with constipation and
its numerous accompanying troubles.
We want you to try Reuter’s Little Pills.
You can buy them at any chemist’s, and
a trial may mean lifelong happiness.
They are small and the dose can be in-
creased or diminished as occasion may
warrant by simply taking a greater or
lesser number of pills. We are spending
thousands of pounds to let the world
know about Reuter’s Little Pills and if
they were not all that we represent them
to be, we could not afford to spend this
vast amount. Prove it for yourself.
Has constipation upset your blood so
that your body is covered w.th pimples?
The quickest and best cure for all skin
complaints is Reuter’s Soap. Its creamy,
antiseptic lather soothes, heals and puvi-
fies. Its fragrant perfume leaves the
body delicately scented. At your Chem-
ist’s.
u
0
f
ijtLSAM Op
%
£
'^ade
0
0
0
Q
Q
0
POTOX’S
BALSAM 0 ANISEED
The only SAFE AND RELIABLE REMEDY
For COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
NIQHT COUGH, INFLUENZA, etc.
The unpleasant sensation of tickling in the throat, which deprives so
many of rest during- the night by the incessant coughing it causes, is
quickly removed by a dose of Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed. It is a proved
cough remedy of 80 years’ standing. It strengthens the Voice and cures
Hoarseness.
„ ... UNSOLICITED TESTIMONIALS.
T The Rev * WaL. LUSH writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle " For the nast v
twelve years I have been in the habit of using myself, giving away, and recomineiuFn g
your balsam. X should not be exaggerating if I said I had never known it to fail. Wheif-
cured met* cough. X use it.in preference to anything else,, and again and again it has
vea/towAlv £E?2!ZrY S F’ F J? rn Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk writes- •* Last
Balsam of Aniseed cured for me a very obstinate cough of some months’
dura ** on * W^ic k * feared would lapse into a pulmonary affection.”
for m^mhl?c N of L BR0U(^ H ’ * he er “ actor, writes-- I think it an invaluable medicine
artistes professiQn * and have alwa lS. recommended it to my brother andi
honomecf Cough < Remedy. S ’ Whe " ordera « their stores ’ should not thh time-
WARNING.-When purchasing Powell's Balsam of Aniseed you are
earnestly requested to see that the “ Lion, Net, and Mouse ” Trade
iofitations? the b ° ttle wpapper '’ and be not Persuaded to take
Sold By all Chemists', etc,, throughout the world.
Prepared only by THOMAS POWELL, Ld„, Blackfriars*
LONDON". ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland -
ELLIOT BEOS.. LTD., O’Connell St., Sydney, and Eagle St., Brisbane
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERT.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, lias been discovered, wbicii is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient. but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or w T hen
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splenditVy on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and iil
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named;
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
m getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately f Ol warded to you post free.
Chemists, c storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.*S.W.
&f>e LEADING
HOUSE
w
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
YVE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
m
JIM
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality-
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra snort top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
CANT
D
BEAT
Price 14s
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes—
4in., 7/0 ea„ ; sin.» 9 6 each
Anglers’ Ouide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
HTIre Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have bean properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
RgIV&I 1 © of ImitSi'tiOlflS • The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly
NOTICE. -Hearne's Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning- of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the vounerest child and the most a&red oersot
for.
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT A
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
[SUBSTITUTES-*
NERVOUSNESS
liOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CUKE, •will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
fdg
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [7
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
dfgdg
™
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little stud}'. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding- to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
pounds’ worth of
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO
dg fd
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you 50 of our Better Class picture post cards. Everybody wants
picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 50 cards for your own use, you have plenty of
friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of. Send
your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed envelope. In writing, state
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., 5 Angel Place, Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
dfg g
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
iDINNEFORDU
[magnesia,
df fdg
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
smrasaass: I %L^^?as£S!S£ r
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combine's made ub
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Temphone 213&
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
w»
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
TUP DECT
Blood Purifier
IN THE WORLD.
WHY SUFFER with that chronic
disease? Do you want to die ? Sul-
phur Bitters will cur* you as it has
thousands.
Why do you suffer with that
FOUL, OFFENSIVE BREATH?
You need not if you use Sulphur
Bitters. They never fail to cure.
Operatives who are closely confined
in the mills and workshops; clerks
who do not have sufficient exercise,
and all who are confined indoors,
should use Sulphur Bitters. They
will not then be
WEAK AND SICKLY.
wmmmammmmmmmmmmmmmmama
Is your Breath impure. Your
Stomach is out of order. Sulphur
Bitters is the best medicine to take.
Sulphur Bitters will build you up
and make you
STRONG AND HEALTHY.
At the dawn of womanhood, Sul-
phur Bitters should be used.
WIIHG
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
tn a " v address.


It’s pleasant to take
and.it stops that
Croupy Cough
%
«g
D? SHELDONS
New Discovery
FOR *
Coughs Colds and consumption
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
Why it cures disorders so seemingly different in character as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
indigestion
Ancemia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
This is a fairly long list of disorders, but every one of them is caused by defective action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from anj
of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following description
of the work performed by those vital organs is given :
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment," or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver.— ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Aiifemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded b.y the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a
curative agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many dis-
appointments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length
discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and bv
restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels
of the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Ansemia, Indigestion
Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles’and General Debility’
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the
reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and accounts of many remarkable cures effected even when
hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co. Limited
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. ’ ro-i ’
The Exile.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the sullen summer days,
When the coal mirages quiver on the edges
of the plain,
When the tanks are molten silver, and the starved
earth cries for rain—
Ah ! the empty stretching years,
With their seedtime and their harvest—and the
calling of the sea.
And the haunting ghost of youth, and the love
that’s dead to me !
: Seven dreary years ago,
From my sea-girt home you brought me to the
Western plains of green,
And you made your heart a throne, where you
crowned me as a queen.
Ah ! the murmur of the sea,
And the sapphire of its waters —and the soul
paralysis
That has made your heart forget how once my
lips were sweet to kiss !
And my child whose wondering eyes
Never saw the blue waves play upon the stretch
of golden sand,
Or the white-sailed boats oome inward to the
shelter of the land ?
He is born to bondage too ;
For the red West sets its brand in the dullness of
his eyes.
And the West shall hold him slave till in Western
dust he lies.
But for many hundred years
Have the women of my blood watched the fishing
boats oome home.
{ln my dreams I see the long waves ever whiten-
ing to foam.)
But the red face of the plain,
With the dead trees at its edges, and the quiver-
ing summer haze—
Ah! the calling of the sea through the sullen
dragging days.
N.S.W.
R. BOULTON.
The Commercial and the Pig.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOGAN eyed the clean-shaven Com-
mercial with evident disfavor, not to say
suspicion ; but that individual bore the
scrutiny with the assurance of his kind. To be
eyed with disfavor was to him neither unusual
nor disconcerting.
' Wherefore he continued to press his point.
“There’s absolutely nothing to stop yer,” he
said, authoritatively. “Put him in a little box
and stick him under the seat. They’ll never
know lie s there. Man alive, it’s done every day.”
Hogan’s face relaxed a trifle.
“It sounds roight enough,” he admitted,
thoughtfully; “ but Oi fill in wanst, an’ Oi’ll be
dahmned iv Oi do ut agin.”
The Commercial drained his glass and set it on
the counter with alarming vigor.
“Please yourself, ” he said brusquely, “but if
you re going to stay in Sydney over Christmas
with the family, you’ll want a sucking-pig, and
what could ye get better than this little chap ?
Tell y’ what,” he announced—then suddenly,
“ When are y’ going ? ”
“We’re dhroivin’ into town a’ Chewsday nixt,”
said Hogan, “ an’ catchin’ the thrain t’ Sydney a’
Winsday.”
The Commerced slapped the counter enthusias-
tically. All hardened Commercials suffer from
chronic enthusiasm.
“That’ll do tip top,” he stated. “I’ll take a
run down on Wednesday meself, and see y’ thro’.
Wanted to see the chief, anyhow.”
That settled it.
* * * a
Wednesday morning saw Hogan installed in a
first-class compartment along with the Samaritan
who was to see him through—also two other
veterans of the bag. The family was stowed away
in a ladies’ compartment; but under the seat be-
neath Hogan was a neat white box, wherein
slumbered, so Hogan said, “as foine a soocker as
y d see in a day’s march ” ; and in these matters
he was a person of much knowledge.
For the first hour or so he was a bit uneasy, but
the pig behaved like a perfect gentleman, and
Hogan felt secure.
At Parramatta, his friend got out and strolled
about the platform, “just to stretch me legs,” he
said ; but Hogan stayed with his charge—he was
taking no chances.
Half-a-moment before the train started the Com-
mercial dropped a remark to the busy station-
master, and then rushed for his compartment.
The stationmaster glanced at the clock.
“Too late now,” he muttered, “I’ll tele-
phone.” And he did.
At Sydney the usual platform crowd awaited
the train, but Hogan had grown bold in the ways
of deception. Yanking his box out from beneath
the seat, he turned to leave the carriage. The
tmket-exarniner, however, had his instructions.
“Let s have a look in that box,” he demanded,
curtly.
Hogan blustered.
mi °.^ e divil,” he began, stormily.
Ilie railway man was impatient.
‘ If y’ don’t let me look at it,” he said, threaten-
ingly. Hogan sighted an approaching helmet,
and handed it over.
The official upended the box, and an agonised
squeal split the air.
“ Righto,” copying the address into his
note-book. oil’ll have to pay for him now,
out you’ll hear from the Department in a day or
so.
It took Hogan a quarter of an hour to arrange
otherwise, and then he was a pound out of pocket.
Commercial was sympathetic.
* Well, anyhow, you’ve got him here now,” he
said ; ‘so you may as well see it through.”
Hogan thought so too.
After he left, the bagmen had sundry drinks.
I hey seemed much amused.
* * * *
Hogan continued to see it through for three
days. J hen the Inspector of Nuisances dropped
:n with an invitation “to be and appear,’’etc., etc.
Hogan was staggered.
He called the Inspector of Nuisances “adir’rty,
low blaggard,” and explained, with much vehem-
ence, that at Skeleton Greek, where he was tha
law, “ a mahn cud kape a bit iv a pig in his bid-
room iv he loiked, an’ th’ divil a worrud would
anny wan say to ’um. Anyhow,” he concluded
loftily, “ Oi’m a magistrate iv this Shtate mesilf,
an’ we’ll see phwat me contimp’ry has t’ say
about ut.”
His “ contimp’ry” said he would require to pay
one pound and costs, or change his residence for
a month. Hogan paid. Further, his contem-
porary advised him to get rid of the nuisance
without delay. Hogan did. He went Lome and
slew it in a scientific manner.
The Commercials attended the hearing; after
which they adjourned with that Good Samaritan,
Hogan’s Commercial, for refreshments. Their
amusement appeared to be intense. When a
letter arrived from Hogan, inviting the Samaritan
to dinner next evening, their amusement was
painful to witness.
* • * •
The nuisance looked perfection.
Hogan surveyed him proudly from the head of
the table.
“ He’s cost me a bit,” he said, confidentially, to
his guest, “but ’tis wurruth uts he is this minnit.
Moichael, go an’ see who’s at the dure.”
Michael went, and returned with a blue
envelope. Hogan opened it—and the surround-
ing air crackled for two and a-half minutes by the
Commercial's watch. It was a summons for
slaughtering hogs in the city.
Then he broke off suddenly.
“ It’s a dahm rum t’ing,” he muttered, half to
himself ; “ th’ poor little divil kep’ quoite enough
on th’ train, an’ only me an’ me fri’nd knew ; but
at the viry lasht minnit they foinds out.” (The
Samaritan was looking distinctly uneasy.) “Oi
brung um home in his box, an’ kep’ um in th’
house so as no wan would know, an’ yet they
foinds out.” (He was watching his guest out of
the corner of his eye.) “ An’ thin,” he went on,
“ whin Oi’m towlt t’ git rid o’ th’ noosinee, widout
delay, Oi comes sth.aight hoame an’ kills um in
th’ kitchen, wid niver a shquale ; but ” (he was
looking straight at the bagman now) —“ they foinds
out art th ’ sa-ame. An’ whoi ?”■
He rose in his chair and grasped the sucker
gracefully by the hind legs. “WHOI?” he re-
peated dramatically, whirling the corpse viciously
round his head.
The Commercial saw it coming—and ducked.
He got it on the top of the head.
Hogan side-stepped round the table, and the
bagman dived beneath it.
That saved him.
Hogan’s kick would have dispersed an army of
bagmen—if they’d stopped it; but the table was
a solid piece of furniture.
The individual who was responsible for the
blue envelope was letting himself out of the front
gate in a leisured manner, when he was propelled
into the gutter by a hurried and agitated Com-
mercial person, who proceeded to break all
records to the tram. Behind him came a lame
man with a sucking-pig.
Hogan turned the last corner in time to see his
quarry board a city-bound tram just as it resumed
its journey. \ Then he commenced to decorate the
atmosphere.
He was still decorating it when someone
gripped his arm.
“ What, in th’ na-ame o’ Hell ” he stormed.
The gripper wheeled him round with startling
energy.
“Come along,” lie commanded. “Charge of
bad language.”
And Hogan went.
SPINIFEX.
The Snake’s Breakfast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE snake’s breakfast had been a heavy
one, a dejeuner a la fourchettc of seven
courses. He was a very globular and
torpid serpent indeed. It was nice and warm
where he lay amid the bracken—warm and very
quiet. His tongue flickered in and out in sheer
enjoyment—he was tasting that mouse again. He
turned a little to warm the other side, and, as he
turned, far down the valley he heard a great
trampling and many voices. *‘ Man !” he thought.
“I must get out of this.” But his torpor still
held him. The rustling of bracken and snapping
of dry twigs swept up toward him, intermixed
with little squeals of “ Fred, you are a tease. . . .
dim, stop pullin’ my hair.” “Evidently quite a
party,” thought the snake, alarmed. He must
really make an effort. But the breakfast was
strong as the spirit was willing. He torped some
more. J ust as the leading yahoo reached him he
made a feeble wriggle to escape. The yahoo
started back. “Keep orf!”he yelled. “A
snaike! A black ’un ! I near put me foot
on ’im.” The snake heard a cracking of
boughs; the footsteps in the bracken became
cautious; and the girls whispered. “ These asses,
said the snake to his soul, “will now proceed to
kill me because lam a snake'. It does not matter
that lam a carpet snake, and harmless. It docs
not matter that in my sinuous curves (when I’m
not full up of grub) I hold more of the decorative,
and consequently more justification for existence,
than these grotesque persons themselves. I die.
Well, I will die with a full belly—-that’s one
comfort.”
Then they battered him for a space with infant
gumtrees, and broke his back in fourteen places.
They prized his mouth open to show the girls his
“sting.” They did not find it. An eye was
blackened over the vexed question of liis
venomousness. A nose bled freely over his precise
length—the length of a snake was never satis-
factory. This particular snake was declared at
12 feet.
They dragged him 2i miles by his tail, since one
of them desired to take him home and skin him.
Out of the skin would emerge belts, purses, carry-
alls. Then, after having eaten their lunch and
being stung by bull-ants in accordance with the
best traditions of picnics, they dragged him
another miles to the station. This time he
was dragged head-first, by means of a piece of
string round his neck. This treatment mad,e him
nice and supple. The day was hot, and this made
his semi-digested breakfast supple too. Never
was a more supple snake dragged on a string or
hung around a shrieking girl’s neck.
Upon the railway platform, ’Enery, who had the
reputation of much bushcraft (he had once been lost
for 36 hours in the Kanimbla Valley), took charge
of the defunct serpent. Wonder had not yet ceased
over the reptile. The'party stood about it. and
criticised, and lied, and made pointed, subtle japes,
that fell like an elephant’s foot, and made even
the girl from Wolloomooloo blush. ’Enery ob-
served a kerosene tin standing inoffensively upon
the platform. “ Watch me crack ’im like a stock-
whip, ho said. Thev watched. He swung the
snake by the tail thrice round his head, and
cracked it at the tin. As he did so its breakfast
shot out and distributed itself. It took them
quite a while to remove the traces of lizards,
frogs, grasshoppers and beetles from the girls’
white dresses. Then the boys belted ’Enery with
the snake, and the girls leaned over the platform
railing. The kerosene tin stood in dignified
silence. The train came in.
HOWARD ASHTON.
“ Itan : Squatter Keys, Upper Hunter
(IS.S.W.), drafts his cattle into paddocks accord-*
mg 1 to color, and submits them for sale so classified
—whites, or roans, or reds, or brindles. Another
squatter in the same district has reduced the
breeding of black sheep to a science, and has a
mob of 3000 of them. Last they ave-
raged more wool than the whites, and it realised
13d per lb. The lambing ran out at 82 per cent.,
without a piebald or a white. This success dis-
putes the theory that the black jumbuck is a
sport.


a
ZAM-BUK BALM SOOTHES & HEALS.
I have great pleasure in stating that I have proved Zara-Buk Balm
all it is claimed to be,” says Mr. J. H. Reed, a
shoemaker, residing in Illawarra Road, Marrick-
ville, Sydney. “I have*used ointments, but none
of them come up to the great healing powers of
Zam-Buk. For chapped hands I find it invalu-
able. My occupation necessitating my hands
being a good deal in water, the knuckles crack
and become very sore, but by applying a little
Zam-Buk Balm on retiring, in the morning my
hands are quite soft, and all the pain gone. I
may also state that when driving at this time of
the year, the face, on returning home, is often
smarting, but an application of Zam-Buk soon
takes the “ smart ” out. Zam-Buk is
also splendid for the children’s cold
in the nose. By rubbing a little
Zam-Buk on each side of the
nostrils, the child is eased con-
siderably and a good night’s rest
ensured.”
<5
[lfTTiTTitnu
Zam-Buk Balm is invaluable for chaps, chilblains, sore faces, cold sores, chest
cold, sore throat, cuts, bruises, sores, winter eczema, ringworm, piles, rheu-
matism, sciatica, etc. Of all Chemists and Stores, at Is. 6d. per pot, or 3s. bd.
special family size (containing nearly four times Is. 6d.), or post free from lhe
Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
KEEP A POT HANDY!
bm-Buk
RUB IT ml
/
9
mdm/MtiamMmf
md/aM dny&d d
d &d dda/zad.
The Old Salt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN over rock and river flat
The tide inrolling ran,
Upon his cottage doorstep sat
The old seafaring man.
His face was tanned by sun and wind,
And wrinkled like the sea
When, with a two-kmot gale behind,
Its waves run furiously.
A grand old mariner he seemed
Of gallant days long dead,
And still like battle-lanterns gleamed
The eyes within his head.
His hands lay idly on his knees—
His great hands brown and stark.
That held the wheel when raging seas
Swept madly o’er his bark.
All over now was that grim strife.
Safe anchored to the shore,
He’d struggle with the storm for life
No more —ah, nevermore !
Yet when the flowing moonlight shone
Upon the flowing tide,
His thoughts were with the brave days gone —
His days of strength and pride.
And oft he’d sigh, the while his hand
Would grimly clenched be :
“ My soul is weary of the land ;
Would I were on the sea ! ”
For ever through his ancient blood,
When winds began to blow.
The currents of the salt sea flood
Went pulsing to and fro.
And he could many wondrous tales
And stories strange relate,
Of raging seas, and roaring gales,
And storms intemperate.
“ I mind,” he said to me one night,
As we sat side by side,
A-smoking in the moonshine white,
And gazing on the tide.
“I mind a voyage, long years back,
Th&wust I ever had ;
The seas was white, the skies was black,
The wind, it blew like mad.
“ Our passengers, they all, good Lord !
With fright was green and blue,
And we had sev’ral pigs aboard,
And cows and ’osses too.
“ But though the breakers, close at hand,
Was roarin’ fierce and hoarse,
Me eye was on the compass, and
I kep’ her to her course.
“ I dug me teeth into me lip—
The mark you yet may spy—
‘ We’ll land upon the blanky slip
In spite of H —l,’ sez I.
“ A parson’s wife close by me sat,
And mighty stiff sez she :
‘ No man should cuss and damn like that,
Espesherly at sea. ’
“ The wind blew off the beam. We ran ”
I stopped him then and there :
“ Why didn’t you, a sailor-man,
Lay-to, or tack, or wear?”
A scornful glance on me he cast,
And said, in tones of ire, •
“ Why wasn’t we a-hangin’ fast
On to the cussed wire ? ”
Then on he went : “I licked the squall,
And landed safe the crew,
The passengers, and pigs, and all,
And cows, and ’osses, too.”
“ Then what were you, who bore at sea
That awful tempest’s brunt ? ”
“ I wus the captain, sir,” said he,
“ Of the Middle Harbor punt.”
N.S.W.
CREEVE ROE.
The Tongans.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 •
student of human nature can find
I much material, of a kind, in Tonga.
If he goes to a “ bolotu” (church service)
at night, when they tell their souls” (testify),
he will see all the women, from those verging on
. ~ m j-j •. , , J
scragginess to the old and decrepit, stand up and
tell in hot Salv’army language how they were the
vilest of sinners ; how they realised their lost
condition; how they. thought themselves far
beyond pardon and worthy only of the most
awful tortures of the “ pit.” The whole meeting
is moved to deep distress. Those who possess
hankies weep copiously. Those who have had
no chance to lift a hanky off a clothes-line,
or who have at home no bundles of white men’s
washing from which .to take one, suppress their
tears, and encourage the speaker with such re-
marks as “Mo one!” (that is so), or “Taka-
fatai!” (God be thanked !). It is almost unneces-
sary to state that the younger damsels do not
“ tell their souls.” They are generally too busy
preparing genuine material for their orations
when the time comes for them to join the has-
beens.
Some years ago there was a celebrated Tongan
beautv named Mele (Mary). “ When Mele told
her soul,” is an episode in the history of the island
to this day. For a long time Mele was the most
popular and sought-after belle in Tonga. But
when the charm of youth began to leave her,
younger rivals eclipsed her, and she quite natur-
ally commenced to think about her spiritual condi-
tion Mele went to a “bolotu” and “told her soul,”
and’great was the telling thereof. About 300
people were present. Mele had resolved to put
up a record. She had a hanky, so she wept freely.
She was not to be satisfied with the usual vague
hints at a sinful, mis-spent life. She used the
customary generalities as a mere prologue. Then
she launched out into full details. “0 Lord, you
know Bulo Oteli,” etc. Bulo, who was present,
was manifestly uncomfortable and embarrassed,
even before some secret foe wailed out, “ Mo one !
mo one!”
“ And, O Lord, you know when Sipo s wife
was away,” etc. “Oeawe!” (alas!) wailed out
other wives who had also been away, while. Sipo
was seen hurrying out into the night. The male
part of the congregation, with wild, expectant
looks on its face, was rapidly but unobtrusively
following Sipo’s example. When Mele had got
half through the task of “telling her soul ” there
was not a male in the room except those forcibly
detained by their wives. When she had finished,
discord reigned in every family circle in the
village, icy coldness sprang up between engaged
couples, the purity of descent of some of the
noblest families was marred, and' almost every
male of mature age in the village was involved in
the awful confession.
The Tongans are a deeply religious people, but
as liars they cannot be equalled. Old Ananias
could not hold a candle to aTongan in good going
order. They are handsomer than the Maoris, but
not so intelligent. The women walk like the
duchesses we read of; they value “good name,’
but nature, climate, &c., are too strong for them,
so much “ telling of soul ” awaits them when they
are so old that sin has left them behind.
Politics are in their infancy in Tonga. Parlia-
ment sits once in three years. Last election the
Opposition secured a fair majority. But their
“big gun” was 9s. in arrears with his taxes, so
he was not allowed to take the oath at swearing-
in time. He rushed off to the king, borrowed the
amount due, ran to the Treasury, paid it in, got a
receipt, streaked back, and found the business of
the House in full swing, and sundry new laws
passed which practically disqualified the Opposi-
tion.
A strong force in the Government party was
Kaho, Minister of Police. If any member of the
Opposition got on dangerous ground in his speech,
Kaho would rise and say, “ Sit down, or I’ll put
you in gaol! ” The Oppositionist sat. Towards
the end of the three weeks’ session, Kaho had only
to look at a member of the Opposition about to
rise, and that member’s eloquence died within
him, and he subsided.
One night, during the session, the King was
entertaining at his palace a party consisting of
the governors of neighboring islands, and some
big chiefs. Liquor was flowing freely. Now,
no Tongan is permitted to. look at the
giddy bowl without a “ tohi,” which is a written
permit to drink spirituous and fermented liquors.
Kaho knew that some of the King’s guests had no
“tohi,” so he assembled his faithful “cops” and
surrounded the palace. He tried the door, but it
was locked. He ordered his “peelers” to climb
the verandah poles, and from the balcony get into
the banquet-hall, which was an upstairs room.
But the cops’ courage oozed out at the thought of
entering his Majesty’s palace in that manner, so
Kaho climbed up alone. The illegal drinkers
scuttled away and hid in all kinds of nooks and
corners, but Kaho ferreted them out and had
them duly fined next day. The King protested a
good deai, but a Tongan King doesn’t amount to
much in the presence of a man like Kaho—embit-
tered, too, by the knowledge that the monarch
had lent 9s. to the Opposition.
The Tongans are the most enthusiastic cricketers
on this globe. When the game was first intro-
duced in Tonga, everybody played from morning
till night. When one village challenged another
to a match, it was not a game between elevens—
every man in both villages batted. At last the
plantations were so much neglected that an Act
was passed, declaring cricket to be illegal except
on Mondays and Thursdays.
Lest tourists, reading these things, rush in un-
due numerousness to Tonga, it must be stated
that it is only a very small land, where a man
like George Reid couldn’t hide his identity for
one hour out of the twenty-four. So let the
frisky tourist still label his portsammy for the
land of the Monkey, and leave poor harmless
Tonga in peace.
WANGA.
The Price of a Soul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE soul of Smith rapped gently with the
handle of its umbrella on the door marked
“ Manager.”
“Come in,” said a voice.
The soul pushed the door open and went in on
tip-toe.
A little gray man, very shabbily dressed and
wearing spectacles, looked up as it entered, and
pointed at a worn Vienna chair.
“Well, what is it ?” he inquired in an irritable
voice.
The shade of Smith cleared its throat and
shuffled its feet. Then it fumbled with its hat
and umbrella, and said : “I beg your pardon—is
the Devil in ? ”
The worried little man looked keenly over the
top of his spectacles. “Yes,” he answered, “I
think I’m in !”
Smith’s umbrella fell with a crash on the floor.
“ What do you want ? ”
Smith opened his mouth twice and shut it again
without saying a word. At the third attempt he
managed to gasp, “I want ... I want. . . sell
. . . my soul ! ”
The Devil jumped up and fumbled insanely
with his spectacles.
“ D’ye mean it? You’re not joking, are you ?”
“No—no !”
“You really will sell ? ”
“Yes—"-yes!”
“ How much do you want ? Say quickly! ”
Smith clutched his hat and umbrella to his
bosom and shivered.
“No,” he moaned, “ you must make me an
offer ! Make it large—large ! Give me every
penny you can —I’m desperate —must sell ! ”
The Devil, trembling with excitement, seized
a bell and rang it violently until the outer door
was heard to slam. Then he waved his hand at
Smith and muttered, “Sit there ! I’ll look up
your record, and make an estimate. Don’t move!”
Smith shivered and groaned, and the Devil
rushed through a doorway into an inner office.
“ How much ! ” whispered Smith to himself as
he sat huddled on the chair. “ Five million—ten
—twenty ? No! I must have fifty million in gold
and eighty years of renewed life, and—oh ! what
else can I ask ?... Yes ; I’ll stipulate for wisdom,
so as I can beat him in the end ... beat him !...
beat him !... Ah-h-h ! ”
The Devil burst in and slammed something on
the desk.
Smith stared, howled dismally, and leaped for
the door.
The Devil, with a yell of disappointment,
snatched up the half-crown, and flung it after him.
Vic,
KODAK.


Had no appetite, and could not sleep. Read what
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla did for Mr. Marsden, whose
portrait and letter we publish below:
gfd fdg
“I was in a very weak condition, had
no appetite, and could not sleep. After
trying several so-called cures, I began
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and it did me
so much good that I took, in all, ten
bottles. It was the cheapest in the end,
as it cured me entirely. I now make it
a practise to take three or four bottles
during the year, and it keeps me in good
working order. I can honestly recom-
mend it to other like sufferers, as I feel
sure it will cure them as it did me.”—
Horace Marsden, Adelaide, S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been
tried and tested in every way;
and there is nothinglike using an old, reliable, and*effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment.
It is too dangerous. Unknown and untried medicines
often work more serious results than the disease. When
you need a Sarsaparilla, get “AYER’S,” for it is the old-
est, strongest, and best Sarsaparilla you can buy. Hold
fast to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For
purifying the blood, strengthening the digestion, and brac-
ing up the whole nervous system, use
AYER ’S Sarsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Builds up the System.
Prepared by DE. J. C. AYEE & CO., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness.
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing- 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to d<? this we must give you full satisfaction.
Nr
te all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
*"■ '
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
mh
I /If ■ v\
yS
i M
l L
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
the dr. Austin*
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, \Veak Back. Kid-
ney, Live', and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Cbemlmta it l
Australia and New Zealand*
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the uso of
o® RICORO?
tSSE NCe F t
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the'world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenatin'*
all the important elements of the human frame. °
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
_ Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter hfe and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
o^frn S ,°^. s „ who had lost all ho P e before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you hare tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent oy mail in plain packages. When CURED we chanre
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS. S
Write To-day.
Address : HARVA Ro REM ED Y A GENC Y
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
df
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Poet Free, te.
S*nd Stamp for TUustrated Hats of Books and Novelties
Madame ftanza,
Box 913. Q.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Give Nature a Chance
When you are bilious, when your stomach is deranged, when your
bowels are not in good order, when you have sick headache or cannot
sleep at nights, things are apt to look very and "it. is no wonder that
you feel discouraged and depressed.
At such times as these you need a remedy that wjll tone and regulate
the digestive organs, rebuild the nervous energy, rest the tired brain, and
restore natural sleep.
Don’t delay, but procure at once a box of
Beecham’s
Pills
and take one or two immediately. You will feel their good effects in
half-an-hour. Take another dose when you go to bed, and you will waken
in the morning feeling like a new person. BEECHAM’S PILLS act at
once on the digestive organs, give the liver natural exercise, operate the
bowels, improve the blood, clear the brain, and assist Nature to restore
healthy conditions to the entire body. They do their work thoroughly
and quietly, in perfect harmony with physical laws.
BEECHAM’S PILLS have a remarkably buoyant effect on both
mind and body, without the slightest reaction. A great remedy for
lassitude and depression, as they dispel the gloom of disease, and
Act liKe Sunshine.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM,
•St. Helens, England.
sold Everywhere in Boxes, Price 10|d., l/l|, and 2/9.
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your•..
Rabbit vSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
i ii TO—
HILL, CLARK ®.' CO.,
SYDNEY.
g
\\fILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
” ” BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9et. Gold-Filled Round Wire Broaches,
3/6; w.th Pendant, Heart, or Cross, £/v. in 15ot. G.F
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIIVIS, GOLD KING, Cole's
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
fdgdfg
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS,
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
Each Capsule bears the
name Wr
fdg
MEN
A JVO
yOhtEN
h
.0., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOH,
“Tho Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,*'
Geo. Robertson ant! Co., Ltd., ami
t rice 7s. Gd., or if you apply to
May be had from
from all booksellers
Dr. Martin now a eppy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692
Bv rn’ OW6r f 5-" Prescriptions, 30 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Fou®Co®o?S
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true ' i"de for aP
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical hooks advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyelopsedia of information for suffering humanitv afflicted with on!
standing chrome, nervous, exhausting:, or painful diseases. .Vo similar look has ever been publlbetf g '
FR EE- Sp-P^e-specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and coiored hlate
a, << MIHn nju^ii a ver . v fa ]r >dea of what the Great Medical Book is like will he sent POST PPM?/?’
Also MUD OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on nr m.-T; F , l E
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five l.eetufes on “ ” ? and hl ?
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Hr /Vo*. : P Ailments posted
£W?. MARTIN, M.D.,
.Please mention this paper when writing.
' /5/ Elizabethst. r
—' HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


HOT
WATER
BAGS
m
m
Si
! :
:
! • ;
Complete
with
Wool or
The Very Besh
Quality, with |
Patent Stopper I
and Handle. '
Sizes.
12in;
x 6in.
l*2iri.
x Sin.
lzin.
x lOin.
\\ a.i
0b vers
7/-
8/-
8/3
Covers.
THESE WE GUARANTEE.
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
BHIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs.
Catarrh GUo-nloscnooc nnVI /.„ : -j ■ V i *
relieved
ETTES.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
*
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
df
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
PLATE and
CUTLERY
ft/I ft P K.
®OOSO
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
CbHF
WOLF
•H
or
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
aiso at SYDNEY
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
Jo & J. Maxfield, Ltd„ Sheffield
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
JFYm
INSTRUCTION FREES!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without ieaving your home. You can
sway the minus of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify your ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell yon
allabout this marvelous science. It contain*
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
It and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance ®f a llfetii.,»«.
Write to-day. Address—
g
s»rof. R. H. BARRADEN, b 9 Pitt St., Sydney
m
fdg
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rook Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181b*. Operated by com-u-essed air. consuming: about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART— Striotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
& J. LEMPRIERE, AnJat 6£pnVT B ST.T'sVD« , E^i >URN,S
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. Sl6O 1-BLADE
“PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle - 11-
Buffalo Handle - 1/6
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
df
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
V SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND:
P/ISWPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
c
.:■■■ I
■shi
mmm
■ f../,
. -
Correspondence Invited,
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
SLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
MARSHALL’S.
R.
[td.
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, w.i. Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
BALL
SILYERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Lear a. Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Professional
or THE
Siivertouin Rubber (Jo.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S. W.
g
GOOD PUMPS
For draining mine shafts, flooded galleries and levels, there is nothing equal to
THE PULSOMETER STEAM PUMP
It has no exhaust steam to be disposed of; needs no special foundation, but may be swung from a beam or tripod and raised or lowered as occasion demands
without interrupting its operation. Requires neither engine, belt, oil, or packing,—just a steam pipe,—easy to instal, easy to operate.
IN FACT, IT’S AN IDEAL MINE PUMP.t*! Write for Catalogue.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Sydney and Melbourne.
