

DEWAR’S
FOR
PARTICULAR PEOPLE
WHISKY
r. g. wATmnrs && co.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SEOOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MCLAREN COMPOUND
BTEAM TRACTION ENGINE
HOBAHX.
-JSJSi
■f
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ud. t 117 York St.„ Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.,
Hold Large Stocks
of McLaren Com-
pound
■
!
Send for
ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTIVE
LISTS.
For General HAULAGE, CLEARING LAND, DRIVING PUMPS, SEPARATORS , CHAFF CUTTERS, SHEEP
' SHEARING MACHINES, PLOUGHING BY DIRECT TRACTION, &c., &c. ____
k
Take it back,
have
must
s
HUTTON
Apple Brand
MAMS ®
BACON.
*
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring 1 St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A qiBB, Manager ,
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted.
u
OnMQIPM RABBIT SKINS & MARSUPIAL SKINS, WOOL,
OUNOIUN HIDES, TALLOW, SHEEPSKINS, Etc., to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. LTD., Sydney.
Charge for Selling Wool
Reduced to 2 per cent.
HIGHEST PRICES.
PROMPT RETURNS.
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
ALL PROCEEDS PLACED IN A SEPARATE
TRUST ACCOUNT WITH OUR BANKERS
ķ
Royal
Dutch
mm
is the Queen oM Cocoas
FOJ^
l Aroma,Streivgth^Purihc
CaPEj?
a
Trade Mark.
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark.
apEjg
N
■
;■ vims?
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
lON
AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW
THAT SPARKLES IN THE LILY CUP.
GOLLIN & CO.,
togas*
The Bulletin
V01.28.— N0. 1427.]
[Thursday, June §O, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


JUST ARRIVED—
PALL MALL PICTURES OF 1907.
The best and most popular guide to the Royal Academy and New Gallery, containing 200
reproductions of works actually exhibited, with exclusive reproductions of work of
J. S. SARGENT, R.A., and others,
WRAPPER (size 11 x 8 inches) Is 3d, POSTED Is Bd.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. 'PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOlCt.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure op
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of 1
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one 1
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAB GAZETTE”
says
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
sv HUDSON’S EUNIENTHOL JUJUBE
Unlike Cdugh Medicines, do not cause gastric discomfort orßailments.”
“ Tiib Practitioner ” says “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, ana sm
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, Is. ba.
The RED PAGE
THE NEMESIS ON NATIONS
IN analysing the causes of the decline
and fall of the nations of the ancient
world, W. Romaine Paterson, in The
Nemesis of Natiotis (Dent, per Syd-
ney Book Club) justly lays emphasis
upon the basis of wholesale slavery upon
which their world-wide splendor was un-
doubtedly reared ; but the author seems
to have minimised several other con-
tributing factors, as is apparent when we
consider the disintegration of medfieval and
modern States, into whose composition
slavery -did not largely enter. However, the
author promises us another voluipe, wherein
he purposes tracing the transformation of the
world's social basis from slavery to serfdom,
and from serfdom to poverty ; so that, with
this wide definition -of slavery, he • may
yet demonstrate the universality* of his
thesis. But nations, like individuals, ripe
and rot; like all other living organ-
isms, they have their allotted span, of
existence : they are born and grow
old and die. In the case of the individual
medical science c m postpone that death ;
and in the case of nations statesmanship can
for a few centuries hold at bay their inevi-
table end ; but the cause of decay in both
instances is not exterior ; it is due to changes
within the organism that are the direct con-
sequence of the length of the period of its
existence. When a nation, or a man, grows
old, each loses not only the power, but the
will, to combat the seeds of decay within.
And each, when the end comes of old age, is
usually glad to die.
Still, in his survey of the decline of ancient
nations, Paterson has graphically shown one
cancer that attacked them all, and, helped
by other circumstances, at the appointed
time destroyed them. In attempting to
p<mi-tray the vital world that lies behind
Oriental and classical scholarship, the' 1
writer tells us he determined, as far as
possible, to see that world not so much from
the top as from underneath—and the roots
of that beautiful garden drew nourishment
from a vast and -hideous substratum of
slavery. And in each of his four examples
of ancient States, Hindustan, Babylon,
Greece and Rome, he finds in their social
basis “ a fearful monotony ” —the omni-
present slave. For reasons, the author has
omitted Egypt from his survey. He there-
fore begins with the entry into India through
the Khyber Pass of a white Aryan race.
Even to-day in the Himalayan valleys we find
tribes speaking Aryan dialects and possessing
white skins, ruddy complexions, and often flaxen
hair. There is the clearest evidence that the
people who became Indians were proud of their
racial color, which, however, was gradually lost
under the sun of the tropics In the Yedie
hymns, which chronicle their victory, there is
constant scornful reference to “ the dark race,”
and Indra, the Aryan sky god, is described as
fighting against that race on behalf of his “ white
friends.”
The author finds an economic justification
for slavery at the period when civilisation
was just beginning. It was necessary for
men to unite in order to cope with nature
and clear the earth for a human settlement.
Thus freedom —the freedom of the wandering
savage or the wild beast—was restricted,
and social subordination necessary. But
subordination would be followed by insubor-
dination, and there began that conflict of
wills of which history is the mere record.
Slavery was the first rude discipline in that
combined labor which became necessary if man
were to be capable of holding the place which he
had already won in the world. It is really doubt-
ful whether the foundations of industry could
have been laid in any other way... . Given
immense hordes oscillating over the earth's
surface, plundering like animals, and already
the slaves of instincts not yet human, we may
well ask bow order was to be brought out of such
a chaos. Civilisation begins with the crack of
the slave whip. It is the first frantic effort of
the race to organise itself.
Beneath the splendor of Babylon and
Greece and Rome, the author affords us vivid
glimpses of the horror of that universal ser-
vitude. He shows us how great wars were
undertaken solely for the purpose of gather-
ing in the hordes of slaves necessary to
build those titanic cities of the past; how
the trade in slaves was approved and regu-
lated by the State, how their growing
numbers periodically threatened the exist-
ence of government, how the minority of
drones that were their masters instituted the
most elaborate precautions against a combina-
tion of their laborers, and how, at last, these
millionaire slave-owners met the fate of all
social parasites. Behind the glitter of Greece
was a dark and abiding background of hate
and suffering. It was in the hells of her
slave-worked silver mines, and in the torture
dungeons of her law courts that we find the
foundations of that brief splendor. Pater-
son’s account of the methods of working and
the extent and the richness of the silver mines
at Laurion is highly interesting ; for Athens
owed, not merely her commercial but her
political greatness to these mines, where the
chain-gang toiled, lived their brief lives of
misery, and died. The silver was so pure
that it became famous, and other Greek
States bought it for their own coinage.
Athens became the silver market of the
eastern Mediterranean. Behind the glorious
facade of Athens we discover a va,st in-
dustrial tyranny, beneath the Panthenon
workshops full of manacled slaves. Paterson
concludes that the culture of Athens was
bought at too high a price.
The programme of making wars mere
slave-catching expeditions was carried out
in her turn by Rome. First she ravaged
Italy, making slaves of the vanquished
peoples of her own stock; and then she
reached out to enslave the world. Every
new conquest opened up a new human
market. Slave - merchants followed the
Roman armies, and sales on the battlefield
were superintended by the State.
Often, indeed, the chief interest in a war
centred upon the kind of slaves who would be
brought to Rome. Thus we find Cicero complain-
ing that the slaves whom Caesar would lead cap-
tive from Britain would be illiterate;
&
So the author draws his terrible moral.
The economic‘basis of all ancient States was
the slave-market. Slaves formed the wealth
Of nations and in turn their nemesis. Given
a great and continuous supply of slaves, the
capitalist carried on his work uncontrolled.
In ancient States there was not even a pre-
tence of a genuine equation between labor
and capital. And here Paterson tardily ad-
mits the collusion of other destructive forces
—especially that decay in the character of a
people that comes when a State grows old.
We have seen that communities started their
corporate life with a great store of energy, which
expressed itself in a vital religion, a vital agri-
culture, a vital art, arid, above all, in a vital mili-
tary activity. . . . Meanwhile, as wealth flowed
in, a struggle,for its equal distribution began
within the State’s own borders, and it became
articulate in frequent and violent oscillations of
the body politic. The national self-consciousness
was. now permanently divided, or it . was united
only in face of an invader. ... The community
had become lop-sided; power and property
had fallen into the hands of the- more energetic
citizens, while hunger and misery became the
hereditary burden of the masses. But both of
those opposed factors produced the same result,
for luxury undermined the virility of the rich, and
poverty undermined the strength and character
of the poor, and slavery broke the spirit Of the
working class. .. . The wealth that had poured
in began to pour out in the purchase of super-
fluities, and native industry became unproduc-
tive. .. . There comes a day when the State finds
itself moving on an inclined plane. Sometimes,
as in the case of Greece, the descent was
rapid and violent. Sometimes, as in the
cases of Babylon and Rome, it was prolonged,
and many centuries heard the rumblings of
their dilapidation. It is extremely remarkable
that almost every State appears to record uncon-
sciously these symptoms of its own decline, as, for
instance, in inferior and stagnant art and litera-
ture, and above all in the loss of its religion. . ..
It is wrong to suppose that mere political develop-
ment can save a State. One of the lessons of
history is that great social abuses go on accumu-
lating while men talk politics. ... A fighting
force, however efficient, if it be detached from
the nation, is no proper bulwark. The victories
of Stilicho and of Actius, however brilliant, did
not save a people who were content to fight by
proxy,,and had begun to mutilate themselves in
order to escape military service. Further, as a
disintegrating influence we should observe the
tendency of property, and especially of property
in land, to" become vested in a few families. . . .
In contrast with all other things, wealth gravi-
tates upwards. ... A wholly hostile relation sub-
sisted between capital and labor, and this
permanent deadlock involved economic sterility.
There was an utter absence of that co-operation
without which a State remains an artificial and
highly dangerous organisation. . . . Accurate lists
of kings, archoris, and strategoi, consuls, pro-
consuls and tribunes, will never enable us to see
the unrest of those vanished States. Even their
art, their literature, and their religion are lame
guides, because modes of thought and expression
change and beliefs die. But labor lives. ... It is
the continuity of human work which binds ages
together. . . . If we study ancient nations from
within, we discover a society governed by intimi-
dation. Their combined rivalries, like the rival-
ries of'modern States, pressed most heavily on the
poorest class, and involved an immense but futile
activity.
From such a valuable an.d thoughtful work
as this, those who are concerned about the
future of Australia may deduce many an in-
structive generalisation affecting the health
of nations. It is from a study of the past
that we have the surest hope of predicting
the future.
We look with interest for the announce-
ment of the companion volume, dealing with
modern States, promised us by the author.
♦
George Lambert is well hung in the big room of
the R./\., with a large portrait group. Among
other commissions, and lucrative black-and-white
work, he is now engaged upon the portrait of a
daughter of Lord Lansdowne.
ANOTHER AUSTRALIAN KIPLING
“ It breathes the freedom of Colonial life in the
open, and some of the London reviewers have
gone so far as to describe Mr. Eden as the ‘ Aus-
tralian Kipling.’”—Extract from publisher’s
letter to the unprotected reviewer.
With this stimulating letter of introduc-
tion we receive Mr. Guy Eden, and his
Bush Ballads (Sisley’s, -London) with unkind
suspicion. And a reading of his verses
enables us to qualify the publisher’s phrase.
Guy Eden is not an Australian Kipling ;
he is a cockney Paterson. Eden writes—
in Paterson-and-water—of “The Old Grey
Mare,” and “Biralla Station Ball,” and
“The Man who came to Burrambeit,” and
“The Cove that Held the Ace,” and “The
Cove as Wears a Beard,” and there are odes
to Carbine and to Trumper ; and it is all
nicely rhymed, and swingingly stanzaed and
long drawn out and innocuous. The yam of
“The Old Grey Mare” is told in twenty-six
verses, disfigured by bathos such as this i-f-
But away in the corner old Billy,
Forgetting all else that was there,
Was quietly standing, and sobbing
With his arms round the neck of his mare.
While in a threnody over King Billy, Eden
opines that :
Surely some day when the story of life is told,
Angels will weep o’er the last of his race !
Most- of the yarns begin in the old time-
honored way.
Ridden a bit! I should think I had. ...
■ But there was a time—don’t mind me, sir,
I’m talkin’ of long ago.
And many of them end with the. same time-
honored bathos ;
I’m getting old and weary, and the end is near, I
know.
Will my darling never call me ? Hark, that music
soft and low.
Can it be? Oh God, it is, for now she calls me,
and I go
To meet her where the stars are softly shining!
Occasionally Eden’s humor mitigates his
weariness, and in “Sydney Harbor” and
“A Bush Conversation ” he just manages
to touch the real thing. But on the
whole, his book is a poor echo of a phase Of
Australian verse into which, by this time,
the white ants have got. In fairness to Guy
Eden, we append liis best effort :
Norman Carter’s realistic portrait of the ex-
Lord Mayor of Sydney in his robes is a highly
creditable piece of work. The portrait of Alderman
Allen Taylor is an excellent one; but for future
mayors the City Surveyor, or some other high
municipal official, should design a pair of
mediaeval and picturesque boots to complete the
costume. Beneath the gorgeous gewgaws of office
that adorn the brilliant-hued robe appears a pair
of boots, and the mayoral boots are just boots.
It seems a pity that convention should compel a
shrewd and likable personality such as Mr.
Taylor’s to go down to posterity in a form of
garment that modern civilisation uses only when
going for its bath. However, the personality is
there.
In a shilling book, Dr. Joe Cassidy (George
Robertson), Cecil Bramley, which is evidently the
pseudonym of a Melbourne medical man, depicts'
the career of a doctor from his student days in a
London hospital to suburban practise in Mel-
bourne, and ultimately to his installation in
Collins-street as a successful surgeon. To literal
turethe yarn modestly makes no pretences ; but
as an interesting and convincing story of the
medical profession it will be read with pleasure
by, at least, the members of that profession.
“ The editors will not derive any pecuniary re-
ward from the enterprise,” dolefully remark the
editors of The Trident, a little trilingual monthly
magazine, unillustrated, sponsored by T. C.
Lothian, Melb., price Id. In this “journal of
modern languages and literature,” there are book-
reviews and articles in English, French and
German. We fear that the editors have some
prescience.
A BUSH CONVERSATION.
Jim lightly rests upon his axe
As close at hand he hears a sound.
Then mopping up his heated brow.
With languid gaze he tjirns around ;
’Twas Tim, the stockman, standing by,
“ Good morning,” grunts old Jim to Tim ;
The other slowly shifts his pipe.
And grunts, in answer, “Mornin’, Jim.”
Then Tim, the stockman, looks around,
And gazes long on tree and sky,
Jim, likewise, throws his eyes aloft,
And gently heaves a tired sigh ;
Tim pauses in his wayward gaze,
And rests his eyes upon one spot—
“ It’s bloomin’ ’ot,” he says to Jim ;
Bays Jim, in answer,. “Bloomin’ ’ot !”
A magpie chatters in a tree',
A horse-fly comes to buzz .around,
Tim’s mare just whisks an angry tail,
The horse-fly sinks upon the ground ;
“ Woa, mare! ” says Tim, and then to Jim,
11 The fly’s a worrit, Jim,” he said.
Jim gurgles back a slow reply,
“It won’t no more—it’s bloomin’ dead ! ”
The sun climbs slowly up the sky, .
As Tim sits there and idly waits ;
Jim once more heaves a gentle sigh,
And thoughcfully expectorates;
Tim gently prods the sleepy mare,
Who vaguely wonders what is wrong ;
“ Bo long,” comes floating on the air.
An echo answers back, “ So long !”
GOBRT AND NEW YORK
Maxim Gorki, whom pious New York hounded
out of America on the grounds of alleged immo-
rality, gets his revenge on that moral community
in the Monthly Ilcneio. His article, “New York :
the City of the Yellow Devil,” is a most masterly
indictment of American civilisation, presented with
the sure literary touch of genius. “ One realises,”
he says of monstrous New York, where freedom is
lacking, and houses grow high because land is
dear and artistic taste low, “ that in these great
gaols dwarfed people live dull lives. No flowers
nor children are seen at the windows. From afar,
the city seems a great man with uneven black
teeth. It exhales clouds-of smoke, and appears
like a giant suffering from obesity. On entering,
you feel that you have chanced into a belly of
stone and iron, into a stomach which has en-
gnlphed millions, and which crunches and digests
them. The street is a greasy, I’avenous throat;
therein, somewhere deep down, float the town’s
working food-scraps—living people. Every-
where—over head, under foot, on a level—lives
and roars sinister iron, triumphing in its victory.
Evoked into life by the power of gold, inspired
thereby, it envelops man in its close meshes,
stuns him, drains blood and marrow, devours
muscles and nerves, grows arid expands, spread-
ing its chains even wider, reposing on silent stone.
Locomotives arid cars crawl like great worms;
motor horns screech like fat ducks; electric
wires wail grimly. The suffocating atmosphere
is permeated as a sponge with moisture,
with thousands of roaring noises. Packed in this
dirty city, grimed" with the smoke of factories,
man is imprisoned as in a gaol between high walls
covered with soot. He shudders apprehensively,
exhales foul odors in one’s face ; he has been
poisoned, is suffering and moaning. . . . Men’s
faces are immovably calm—it must be that none
feel the misery of being slaves to life, the aliment
of the city monster. With sad self-conceit they
consider themselves masters of their fate.”
Gorki notes that inner liberty, freedom of soul,
does not gleam from their eyes. In each coun-
tenance it is only the teeth that he sees. Their’s
is but “the freedom of blind instruments in the
hands of the Yellow Devil—gold.” Never before
has mankind seemed to him so insignificant, so
subjugated by life. All the people are silent ;
they have becorrie used to this violence without
object—accustomed to think that this represents
the object. Within the houses of the City of
the Yeliow Devil people quietly endure every-
thing that kills the man within themand turns them
into beasts. For the East Side, the compost-pit
of the city, Gorki has only a shuddering horror.
“ In these streets, packed with people as a sack
with grain, children seek eagerly in the garbage-
pails which stand upon the footway for rotten
vegetables, and devour them, mildew arid all, on
the spot, amid the acrid dust and exhalations....
At one in the morning, at two, and later, they
are still wallowing in filth, these 'wretched
blossoms of destitution, living reproaches to the
voracity of the wealthy.... Dirt is elemental. It
has pervaded everything; wails of houses; glass
of windows, the clothes of the people, the pores
of their bodies, their brains, desires, thoughts.. ..
They were as disease-creating microbes in the
city’s vitals, and the day will dawn when they
will poison it with the same virus upon which it
now nourishes them so liberally,”
By now, New York will perhaps be sorry that
it was so unkind to Gorki.
Readers of Jack London’s Before Adam, of
which, in its serial form, particulars have been
given on this page, will be interested to learn that
there is a remarkable superficial resemblance
between that story and The Story of Ah, by,
Stanley Waterloo, which was published in 1897.
Charged with plagiarism by Mr. Waterloo,
London practically admitted that he got his
fundamental idea from The Story of Ab. “If
you return to the proposition of similarity of
treatment, (he says), let me tell you that your
story and mine are as far apart as the poles in
treatment, point of view, grip, etc. Why, I wrote
my story as a reply to yours, because yours was
unscientific. You crammed the evolution of a
thousand generations into one generation—a thing
at which I revolted from the time I first read your
story. This situation strikes me as very funny.
Here I fall out with you because of your un-
scientific treatment of the primitive world, and
therefore write a reply, and then you say that in
six weeks I took all I knew from you.” Where-
upon The Bookman (American) comments that this
doctrine, if pushed to its logical conclusion, would
produce disastrous results. Any novelist who
chose to think the latest story by Mr. Howells, or
Mr. Kipling, or Jack London himself, unscientific,
would be free to adopt the plot, correct the errors,
and republish the amended story to his own
greater profit and glory.
Recently we put upon this page the name of 0.
Henry, as one of the smartest modern short-story
writers. Into that select category must now be
admitted the name of Leonard Merrick, author of
a series of delightful Whispers about Women.
(Unwin, per Sydney Book Club).- Merrick has the
knack of the short story, the allusiveness, the
humor, the “kick” in the denouement. By a
conscientious study of Henry and Merrick, the
local fiction-writer might improve his art, and the
local fiction-reader is promised good-entertain-
ment.
A travel-book, pleasant to read and well illus-
trated, is supplied by Beatrice Grimshaw. In
From, Fiji to the Cannibal Islands (Geo. Bell per
Geo. Robertson) the authoress, whose portrait,
quite in the manner of our local poets, serves as
a frontispiece, gossips interestingly of certain
little-known islands of the Pacific. Upon the
larger questions of polities and Imperial strategy
Miss Grimshaw has nothing illuminative to say ;
but her travel impressions are noted with an ex-
perienced and picturesque pen. Particularly in-
teresting is her description of Norfolk Island,
which lies so near our doors, and is-so little visited
by the Australian. The photographs add mater-
ially to the value of the book.


MAKE YOUR
HOME
BEAUTIFUL!
A Page taken from F. LASSETTER & CO.
LTD.’S General Catalogue—The Buyer’s
Encyclopaedia —1000 Illustrated Pages,
sent Free an reques
mmmm s *»ret. .nmmeammmimimmmm
m:,.
' . : . *' '
,r Ac?!
Ksfev «
r<
/< tJi *
uum
orm -*tn LANDSCAPE” FRIEZE, 21 inch, 24inch, 30inch wide. To match nil Piainand Decorated Ingroino in .11 C 010,..
SW/tk '
s
J
; -
«>. Jr
i
£S
OF 109-“ THE TULIP” FRIEZE,
,21 inch, 24 inch, 30 inch wide. To match all Plain and Decorated Ingrains in all Colors.
MjKfBfSBagSMPS
£
c
uj:>
w /■ \ A
-
1
i
//4tf
fxis
m.
fl r ,• i t'ttt ov p wfROUS ” FRIEZE, 18 inch, 21 inch, 30 inch wide. Used with Plain Ingrams or Stripes.
u - Made in all Colors to match Papers.
i:*x
p
<B, ,S*
<8
s?v,
m
O F 112-“ THE POMEGRANATE ” FRIEZE, 21 inch or 30 inch wide. Used with Plain or Decorated Ingrams
U * * or Textiles. Made in all Colors to match Papers.
“ THE KILLARA ” FRIEZE.
%
/
mBM ■
m
MM
O p H3_“ THE ÜBEROUS” FRIEZE, 12 inch or 21 inch wide
Used Ah Plain or Decorated Ingrain. Made in all Colors to match Papers.
Fassetter’s Hand
Painted Friezes.
New Designs and Colorings every mail.
NO OLD STOCK.
Our Stock of Wall Papers is the Finest
in Australasia.
High-Class Artistic Designs from
English, French, Canadian, American,
and German Manufacturers.
A Guide when writing for Patterns, is to
state —
What Color is Preferred.
If Border is Required.
Some Idea as to Price.
What Style of Room or Place to be
Papered.
Patterns Posted Free
on application.
Artistic Wall Papers. -QUALITY IS ECONOMY.
F. L A<S>SETTER & Co. Ltd.,
THE UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS OF
NOTED GOOD VALUES,
Greater CHeapside, in tHe Heart of SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THUB SPAY, JUNE 20, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xitd.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
CB
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In 5®
different
styles.
-*»>
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
rfS kbewora/
t#? I— Hp fc.
ou
£
w
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
All C.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports. From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for book of types to :
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., I A. E. Wittey, I J. bunting,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne. | York Street Sydney. | Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
OLD MAN!!
DO YOU FEEE
UNWELL ?
TAKE COURAGE!
&1 Os. is sufficient to send for a cure in most cases.
DO NOT ABANDON HOPE. All is not yet lost. Our system of cure (which is sent
to you in sealed package safe from observation) has lifted many from the brink of
despair. It will save you. Write to us freely and frankly telling your symptoms,
and we will, in return, forward on payment of £1 6s. a full treatment. “ The
Bulletin” Endorses our Cure.
Do you suffer from a feeling of something dreadful about to happen to the Ma
State, a sense of loss, sites before the eyes, unnecessary irritation, nervous inability to see
straight, loss of reasoning power, bashful ness in the presence of honest men, a feeling
of fullness after reading the morning papers, shortness of sense ? Are you disinclined
for exertion ? Do you see wrongs to the Ma State in your sleep?
All these symptoms point to the one conclusion. You are suffering from State Frights.
But courage. We can cure you. We have cured many worse cases.
READ THESE TESTIMONIALS FROM SYDNEY CITIZENS!
A State Premier writes s—
“ Two years ago I began to feel unwell. My tongue was forked. My statements were irregular.
I had Rraddon blots before my eyes. X suffered from frightful dreams of the Ma State being
burned at the stake. Now, before taking your mixture lam just the same as ever. I refuse
to take your mixture.”
This shows how bad a sufferer can remain who does not take our mixture.
A Cured Young Man writes :
“ formerly I used to read only the morning papers. I was fast becoming worn to a shadow from
State Frights. I could retain no wholesome food. I saw everything yellow. I was becoming
a burden to all who came into contact with me. I was a real Mrs. Gummidge. Since taking
your treatment I am a cured man.”
(Name and address on application.)
DELAY IS DANGEROUS. WRITE TO-DAY.
The Federal Cure is sold in bottles: Small size, 2/l-|; large sizQ, containing less than
half the quantity, 5 /-. Full course of treatment ,£1 6s. (sufficient for life). Send 1/- for our
literature on the subject.
Tire Federal Cure,
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
ĸ
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OS’ NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Piping Hot ; Human
Brutes ; and all Zola's, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
How to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The Wipe, This
Husband, and ‘The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d. My
Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron
of Roccaccio, 2/6. Heptamkron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining, Varnishing and Polish-
Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
t*. How to Vamp on Piano, is. How to Vamp, Is.
Howto Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is. Morgan’s
u.ieemasonry, is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions. Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s Gd. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s. 6d. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning
Calculator, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne
Barmaid, Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money
Making Secrets, Is. Passion’s Paradise, 2s.
Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
t-w 'vyw y
* - ».
C-w
539vri
IMilili
■M-
Z9Es*ti:
g?:^g
! 5®S
"W"'>^("^'l \-M
,j
iHilj
n
M Repeater ,f
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand firs*
in popularity, records and shooting
qualities. Always use them
For Field or Tra{> Sboot?og.
Ask Your Dealer For Them.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKINC MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- rec ‘ived and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
a Weeh
Given
Away
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
Ui
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature's Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— See Capsule marked ENO’B ■ FRUIT SALT;’ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpuud only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON, XNQ.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, <£c., everywhere.
t:
ARTE Ift
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
tn}«rr^
Sl¥c.fuScntMlU1c pills' U
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
k


It’s an easy job for tbe barber to
part tbe hair on a head like this. '
It’s just as easy to prevent baldness
if you only do the right thing.
Baldness is almost always a sure
sign of neglect; it is the story of neg-
lected dandruff.
Dandruff is untidy, unnecessary, and
unhealthy.
Myer’s
flair Vigor
cures dandruff and prevents baldness.
You save your hair and you are spared
the annoyance of untidy clothing.
It also stops falling of the hair, and
makes tho hair grow thick and long.
_ Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will onlv disappoint you..
Be sure you get AYE It'S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J.’C. AysT&CS~LoweH, Mass., U. S. A.
ķ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bongli r . of us. Your
money in full refunded with ut qu< stion
if not perfectly Batisfactor>. Highpta grade
Gy isles,
warranted five to ten year , despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on i-pproval
at less than lowes, manufacturers'- prices.
MODIE^S
Coaster Hubs, best mak's of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim < rakes, variable gears
andalliatcs improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to anv rort in the world. We guaranteo safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGE IffS
Write at once, using sufficient p istage. for free art catalogues
and our special offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE GS3 C , Dept. 280 Liverpool*
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES— IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, lOd.
MEASLES
THE
EVIDENCE
from
20 Warialda
St., Kogarah,
N.S.W.,
July 6, 1906:
“A severe attack of measles
left my little Cecil with a
nasty cough. From the
first dose of Scott’s Emulsion
I noticed an improvement
in his condition, and now,
after a course of it he is
quite a different child. His
cold has entirely disappeared,
he is stronger and better in
every way than he has ever
been, and has gained con-
siderably in weight.”
(Mrs.) E. HUCKSTEPP
THE REASON WHY
He is Stronger
C The intense nourishing
power of Scott’s, which
simply forces disease and
weakness out of the system,
and puts health and vigour
in their place, is due to two
things: (1) the pure, fine
quality Norwegian oil always
used in Scott’s; (2) the Scott
process of manufacturing
it, which makes
it perfectly
digestible by the
weakest sys-
tem the impor-
tance of this
is obvious! Poor
oils and indigesti-
ble emulsions are
useless.
k
TRADE MARK
Make sure of Scott’s by seeing ‘ ‘the
Ashman with Ash? ’ on the package.
SCOTT'S
EMULSION
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND
DEALERS IN MEDICINES
'e*
OHHINQTOV,
«$
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besf remedy -
' INFLUENZA, "
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton s COL °BRONCH JTIS.
and seethacyon get it, ASTHMA.
STOPTHATPAIN
“ There is only one Disease—•
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure—•
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pams or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Byes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work —and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Yibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last; for years. Used ever3'where and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street! Sydney.
NO CERTAINTY WITHOUT
“RISKS”
OLD
SCOTCH
Whisky.
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6d. from “
Bulletin»» Office
The
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’l
(Regd.)
c
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
<fcc.
ECONOMICAL
BECAUSE
DURABLE.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By
Royal Ware an
Purveyors to
ķ
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
MO IRS
New Season’s Genuine
“SCOTCH” OATMEAL
This Meal contains special fattening and
nourishing powers not obtainable in any
other. Scotch Oats are world celebrated.
In hermetically sealed packages. TRY IT,
and you will never use any other.
MOIR’S
WORCESTER SAUCE.
EXTRA SUPERIOR QUALITY
IS PURE AND GENUINE.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited.
HERBERT J. SOLOMON, Agent,
47 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
1
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores ,
(Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
PLASMON
COCOA
THE FOOD COCOA. ,
k Builds up the Body, '
because it contains a
much higher proportion '
of actual nutriment
than ordinary Cocoa.
* \
PLASMON OATS;
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of Husk and Fibre.
Furnish '
perfect nourishment
with easy cooking.
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE >
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
Ask for them.
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORES.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oblation.
All day the rain had teemed upon the earth,
Had poured in runnels down the glassy gums,
Or spouted arrows at the black cascades,
That beat defiance on their stormy drums.
But now the sun, post-hasting to the west,
Let loose a sudden gleam of wat’ry light,
As if that he relented to have borne
The world, so long, his grudge of jealous spite.
The broken track grew visible; its pools
Flamed ochre, like the wide-set hooded eyes
The rnopoke turns upon a traveller
Whom Night, descending, captures by surprise.
Then great Orion gave his massy belt
To girdle back the curtains for the Moon ;
And hidden angels, of their own accord,
Spread budding stars to glow around hershoon.
At last she came ; the proud, white-hornbd gem
Upon her forehead to the zenith raised,
As though to find the shy Endymion
For whom, on earth, her barren passion blazed.
The sun sank flaring; like a treasure-ship
Which some fierce brood of Adriatic slaves,
First having plundered of its wine and gold,
Lets loose in long red smoke upon the waves.
Anori there was no single sign to show
That it had ever been—unless it were
The giddy vortex in the ether made
By the displacement of so grand a sphere.
And Venus, with her sad autumnal smile,
Gazed thro’ the twisted windows of the trees,
Where leafy ladies chanted silver songs
In chorus to the thrush’s melodies.
B it mighty Mars, aloof and obdurate,
Pluckt at his harness and his sword undrawn,
While underneath his scarlet morion
His eyes absorbed such peacefulness with scorn.
And so, with all the great Hellenic gods
Arrayed on high, I lit a glowing jet
Of Eucalyptus boughs to give them word
That on this earth the gods are worshipped yet.
N.s.w.
HUGH McCRAE.
My Mate.
In dreams we meet, though dreams be few
Wherein your voice is clear ;
Awake, I go companionless
Down crowded roads in loneliness
Austere;
And yet, have I not longed for you,
My dear ?
My best can never quite repay
The craftsman’s full demands ;
I miss my utmost by as much
As means to me the inspiring touch
Of hands
Whose dreamland spell the workaday
Withstands.
What summit might not I attain
Upon illusion’s hill,
By your unaltered faith upheld,
By your unchanged belief impelled,
Until
Came conquest—might that dream we twain
Fulfil !
Alone, my makeshift best I try—
What matter, since I know
It serves its turn, and it is well
If in the market-place ’twill sell,
Although
Such guerdon mocks the dream that I
F orego.
In dreams we meet, though dreams be few
Wherein your voice is clear,
And still I go companionless
Down crowded roads in loneliness
Austere;
But oh, do I not long for you,
My dear !
Vic.
KETTLEDRUM.
The Reformer.
A shriek stabbed sharply into Slumber’s breast,
Her tender lips fell dully fro u my eyes ;
And half-awake, and fractionally dressed,
I soothed a man who vented horrid cr.es.
“I dreamed a dream,” hesiid, with eyes a-stare
“ A busy town I found myself within,
And to a multitude assembled time
I spoke in warning thunders of their sin.
“ At first T started on the traps that lie
To snare the godless where the glasses clink,
But like to thunder rose an angry cry :
‘ Within this city there are none that drink ’!
“Of dances, then, and theatres I spoke,
Wherein is evil for all such as seek ;
But on my warnings swift denial broke :
‘ We do not know the things of which you spa ik.’
“Then straight my tongue t',e sin of bitt'ng
spurned.
Upon this dreadful vice I placed my curse ;
The quick denial still the crowd returne 1 :
‘ There is no bettor here—all things are woV ,e.’
“ The great crowd glared at me, a ghastly gr.n :
I felt the limelight from my life hid gone.
It was a nightmare city, with no sin,
And I had nothing left to lecture on !
“It made me shriek.” And, laughing, forth I
went.
He called me back e’er I had fairly gone :
“Young man,” he cried, “ what sin is your intent
Roam.tig at night with such scant clothing on ? ”
N.N.W.
HAMER


soris anti conditions o/ JPeaplo
_K
because, being Absolutely Pure, therefore the best Cocoa obtainable,
it is the ideal food-beverage for every age, every occupation and
for all climates. It contains all the nutritive components of the
cocoa-bean with the fatty elements eliminated, so that the whole
of the Cocoa is available for building up bone, muscle and strength.
To Hotel & Boarding House Proprietors & Others
ĸ
For the preservation of your meat, fruit, and vegetables,
as well as for the improvement in flavor and tenderness of
meat that is hung, and from motives of economy, you
should not be without a
BRUNSWICK
ICE MACHINE
which,, at a small cost, gives you a perfect cold storage.
Only $ h.p. is necessary to drive the plant. It requires
practically no watching, and will give you splendid
reliable refrigeration.
The smallest size of Brunswick Ice Machine gives
refrigeration equal to the melting power of 2001 b. of
Ice ; i.e., if you could get 20 101 b. blocks of ice in your
ice chest, you would then produce the same refrigera-
tion. BUT AT WHAT COST? The Brunswick will
save you money.
Write for Catalogue and Further Particulars.
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St*, Sydney.
i Va
i
II
M
11
1
11
BUB
If
n
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queens GdeTerra.ce
I London. S.W. j
PATRONAGE
.ROYM
FASHIONABLE
HOTELS IN
LONDON
NOTED FOR
TS COMFORTS
CONVENIENCE
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” «OUI> EIVAMEE (Washable) Bich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“9APOEIIV EVAMEILB.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOIiIIV” BATH TUB JSSAMEL, In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, "SAPOLIN •’ FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
r*
ii
D
D
m&m,
.
Liiiiiiwi
Ilf
m
m
1 J- - !
v
ijjjjjj
rn
is
&
ii
1
m*
m
9fv
sifsH*
DEFIES
ii
J -V N.-'VHy
|-
gssii-m-i-is!*; !k
dl
i jf-. 'A
n
i
ppgjjjyng
. DAMP
m
■ S-Kf
•~!. m
|_~t_
ii
.
i~s-H'jr-f
iliill
RTi
m
m
■' '. v^O'cSß
I
ft TXT 1
SliilS
■» *4l
ii»
1H
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SfECtM lICIIEUR t
Scotch whisky
WS
>-
/
%
r &
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
n
m
0
HL
£s3
ARD
iables.
% &
A
Has it ever Struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcoek
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
complete catalogue, which will be
mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOT!
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
RUBEROID
DAMPCOURSE
is tbe Dampcourse which
offers perfect and permanent
insulation against moisture
of all Rinds, fresb mortar or
neat cement.
Obtainable from all Builders*
Ironmongers.
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH CO., LTD.,
sydi.ey and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1427.
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 1907.
Pbioe 6d.
A DISCORD OF THE NIGHT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
Australia /or the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
1/ ow to A ddre.ss Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the ot/icial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inn tours in 111 itch and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■—i.e., any picture which has to be re-draivn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS,
Copies of Tint Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetoivn;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Breioer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. xlUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
%T&idZe£m.
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 1907.
HOW AUSTRALIA CAN BEAT JAPAN
AT SEA.
To attempt the discussion of the Australian naval
question with the average person is a painful pro-
cess. Not long since the writer observed casually
to an acquaintance that it was high time Aus-
tralia set about building a navy of its own. The
man so addressed simply glared in horror at the
suggestion. “Where’s Australia going to get
several millions to throw away on a navy ? ” he
demanded. Yet the cash laid out on the navy
need not be “thrown away” in any sense. It
appears to be the accepted theory of the vast
majority that the money so expended is to be
shovelled straight out of Australia—is, as far
as the Commonwealth is concerned, to be
money exported which we will never
see again. This idea comes from the
supposition that the battleships are to be
“imported ” (made in England, Germany, Japan
or Timbuctoo) and smuggled through the Customs
with faked invoices. And it is an idea that
makes every good Australian feel tired —very
tired. For it is quite possible to spend
£50,000,000 on a navy without the money being
“ thrown away ” in any sense whatsoever. To build
the Australian navy in Australia, from Australian
material, and by the hands of Australian work-
men, would mean keeping the money expended in
the country. It would certainly lead to great
industrial activity, besides aiding in the develop-
ment of “ our great natural resources.” Skilled
mechanics would be attracted to these shores from
other parts of the world, and that would lead to
increase of population, and mean more men
behind Australian-made rifles when the Monkey
or some other Asiatic or miscellaneous enemy
appears on the horizon. Also when we can build
battleships we will be quite capable of building
cargo and passenger steamers to carry Australian
produce to foreign lands, and that in itself would
be a profitable industry. So much for the
“ thrown away” superstition.
* * * #
Another point that the naval sceptic delights
to harp on is that, because Britain has been 300
years getting its navy to its present state, Aus-
tralia will necessarily take 300 years to raise a
decent fighting force, and consequently it is
utterly useless to make a start. This 300 years
appears to be a favorite period, though some talk
of 500 years, and some date from Alfred the
Great, and some from the year when the first
ironclad appeared on the waters. But in either
c ise the story ought to be in a lunatic asylum,
and the narrative should Le consigned to a home
of aged and decrepit myths. It implies, in the
first place, that we have no naval traditions as
Britain has, and therefore have got to start from
the bottom of the ladder—a long, long ladder
with its bottom step a great way down. This is
absurdly unhistorical. Australians helped to
budd the British navy from the time of the first
galley to the time of the ironclad; and Aus-
tralians fought in every British naval battle
from the time of Alfred the Great down
to Britain’s last great sea effort at Trafal-
gar. That is to say, our ancestors, who • are
dead, fought there just as much as did
J. Bull’s ancestors, who are also dead. Neither
set of ancestors could be any deader than they
are. And, with naval traditions as good as those
of Britain, there is no reason why we should not
do just as well as Father Bull on the sea.
* * * *
And the talk of the great period required to
create a navy is childish folly. Our father, Bull
—:the marine Bull —has built in 18 years the
greatest navy the world ever saw. More than
, that, he has built all of the said navy that possesses
any real fighting value in 10 years. Everything
dating back before 1889 is old junk now, and
everything dating before 1897 is middle-aged
junk. It is the same with Germany, and the
same also with Japan. And as time and decay
still go on, it follows that it will be in the future
as it was in the past, and that the ships launched
yesterday will almost certainly be obsolescent
in 10 or 12 years, and just about obsolete
in 17; they will be old junk by 1924,
and fairly middle-aged junk by 1920. So we
come to this point, that if Australia begins build-
ing Dreadnoughts, or improved Dreadnoughts,
and first-class cruisers and torpedo-boats to-day,
and keeps on steadily at the work, it will almost
certainly have, about 1920, if peace lasts so long,
the most up-to-date fleet, and, with good manage-
ment, the most efficient fleet on all the seas. That
fleet will be of better quality than the navies of
Britain, France, Germany, Russia, the United
States, or Japan. It will be the one navy in
’'existence with no tail to it, and containing not a
single ship over, twelve years old. In 1918 or
1920 the issue of a great naval battle will almost
certainly be decided by the vessels that are built
between now and the hour of the scrimmage.
Those that date back to last year and earlier
years will cost about as much for up-
keep as the newer vessels, and they will
require about as many officers and men, but they
will only be qualified to scramble on the outskirts
of the trouble, and tackle the old or middle-aged
vessels of the enemy. They won’t decide the
issue, or do anything very serious toward decid-
ing it. Granting that skill and valor are equal,
and that the fleet with a tail of antiquated ships
isn’t more than twice the strength of the fleet
with no tail, there are great possibilities for the
fleet that has no tail. And if we set to work in
real earnest now , the Australian fleet is likely,
10 or 12 years hence, to be the only strong navy on
the waters that really answers that description.
The point to which it is essential to draw the
attention of the helpless, the unpatriotic and the
despairing, is that THERE IS NO REASON
WHY AUSTRALIA, BY THE YEAR 1920,
IF PEACE LASTS SO LONG, SHOULD NOT
HAVE A NAVY WHICH CAN BEAT THAT
OF JAPAN SINGLE-HANDED. It is easier
for us to have that navy by 1920 than for Japan to
have it, always provided we can get a dozen or so
precious years of peace, and provided that we
make good use of the time. In the first place,
Australia has almost exactly the same revenue as
Japan, and, in proportion to its wealth, it has a
vastly larger reserve of taxing power. (Also, by
the way, it has a vastly greater reserve of taxing
power than Britain possesses ; this country is just
as rich per head as Britain, but Federal, State
and municipal taxes in Australia are about £1
per inhabitant per annum less than national
and local government taxes in the United
Kingdom.) Consequently it should be easily
possible for us, during the next handful of years,
to build ship for ship—first-class ironclads, cruisers
and torpedo boats—with the Jap. Then we are
free from a huge burden which the Monkey has to
carry. If the battle can be put off till 1920, by that
time the present Jap fleet will be practically out
of consideration —it will be obsolete or obsolescent,
and of little account ; yet it is costing Japan
£2,500,000 annually for maintenance. The fact that
we have no old fleet, which will be a mere tail in
1920, to support means that, if we can have peace
till then, we will have the money that these old
ships cost Japan for upkeep to spend on the con-
struction of new vessels. Consequently we could
build much more than ship for ship with the Jap.
The great point is that, if the war can only be
postponed till 1920, the Jap’s long start won’t
count at all, and the existing Jap fleet won’t come
into consideration except as a burden. It will
cost a lot of money between now and 1920, and by
1920 it will be just about dead. Therefore in
saying that THERE IS NO REASON WHY
AUSTRALIA BY THE YEAR 1920, IF
PEACE LASTS SO LONG, SHOULD NOT
HAVE A NAVY WHICH CAN BEAT
THAT OF JAPxIN SINGLE-HANDED, this
paper speaks on the strength of facts and circum-
stances that are as capable of demonstration as
the multiplication table. As for finding the 36,000
men to manage such a fleet as that of Japan,
Australia will have men enough and to spare if
it only develops its manufactures by a sane Pro-
tectionist tariff, breaks up its great estates to
make room for small settlers, and encourages
desirable immigration. The men can be got,
and the money is here already—more than enough
of it.
• * * *
Yet, so far, Australia has done nothing. It is
retarded by many different kinds of people.
There are the wormy little State politicians like
Carruthers, who object to the building of even
so elementary an item of defence as the Northern
Territory railway unless it can be done without
N.S.W. paying any of the cost; and the horde
of people—the Staples and Hodges and Huie
and Adams class of Secessionists who write to the
papers, and the Secesh papers that they write to
—that are so busy inventing mean slanders
against the Australian Government that they
haven’t time to think of Australia. There are
also the crazy “loyalists,” who have a floating
impression that it is revolutionary not to depend
on the Ma Country for everything, and that to
build a fleet strong enough to help the Ma Land
is something like insurrection. There is a frenzied
little Sydney mob which says that we should have
no fleet lest, if we have one, some of the ships
may be built in Melbourne. There are the people
who don’t want to pay for defence. There
is a crowd of well-meaning fools who talk
of asking the Hague Convention to guarantee
the safety and integrity of Australia, regard-
less of the fact that the Hague Convention
itself hasn’t a regiment or a ship to defend us
with ; that even if the countries it represents
cared to guarantee our security, that under.
taking would be worth no more than the solemn
guarantees given to Poland, Denmark, Turkey,
and at some time or another to almost every
other country; and that, in any case, it is
a cowardly thing to ask other countries, which
have no interest in our affairs, to fight our battles
while we loaf. Further, there are confused tacti-
cians, like Willie Kelly of the Motor Car, with
crude ideas about the uselessness of defensive
fleets, and wild ideas, derived from some Ameri-
can author, that the only successful thing in war
is to go out and look for your enemy as the
Spanish Armada and the fleet of Rozhdestvensky
did ; and who somehow hold that an Australian
fleet couldn’t go out, though a British one can.
There are silly, despairing people who hold that
unless we can at once have a fleet which can face
a first-class Power, we shouldn't begin to build
any fleet, just as they might say that unless we
can build a whole house on the instant, we
shouldn’t lay the first brick. Also there are the
multitudinous people who reckon that as nothing
has yet happened, nothing will ever happen,
quite forgetting that everything happens for the
first time some day. And there are very many
people who hold that the fleet should be built some
day, j ust as the Sydney-North Shore bridge has been
going to be built some day for over 40 years. And
among all these people the precious months and
years are slipping away; and the evil day is
coming nearer without Australia being any more
ready to meet it when it comes.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Can a Secessionist be a Christian?
Within the last few months an excited but busi-
ness-like woman has been asking whether it is
possible for an actress to be a Christian, and she
has let down her hair, and lighted up her eye like
a burning coal, and answered her own question
with energy in the negative. Now The Bulletin
asks the much more important question which
appears at the head of this item, and after serious
consideration it is inclined to the belief that, as
regards at least the kind of secesh person who
clamors in public, he can't. The secesh push which
declares itself openly in the press is only a very
small band, but it is vicious and vociferous enough
for a very large one. And on strict theological
grounds it is damned ; also there is nothing about
it to even faintly suggest why it shouldn’t be. It
starts out by being a huge, coarse, malignant liar
of vast proportions. Ananias has been held up to
obloquy for close on 1900 years, the charge being
that he departed from the truth once ; a single
letter in the Sydney Telegraph or S.M.
Herald or Evening News from one of the hand-
ful of prominent seceshers can, for straight-out
lying, beat the combined known records of
Ananias, Sapphira, and the Leper three
times over. This sort of thing must get in the
way of Christianity. Then the secesh person is a
wholesale and malignant slanderer. His lies are
not harmless or humorous ; they are virulent and
groundless charges of robbery, breach of faith,
and all manner of things, levelled wholesale at all
manner of persons. He is a stirrer-up of strife
among brethren. Also he is an unpatriotic Stink-
ing Fish, and an evil-minded cad who drags the
good name of Australia in the gutter of calumny
by describing it as if it were a huge Fagin
which lived only for the spoliation and de-
struction of the Ma State. An individual
who wantonly assails the, honor of his mother-land
is the same kind of ruffian who would call his
mother a harlot if he thought he could make 2d.
out of the transaction. These things all make it
difficult for the loud-mouthed secesh agitator to
be much of a Christian. Mostly, too, he is an
enemy of his own State, and the people of his
own State, as well as of the rest of Australia. He
is, in the main, a grasping person whose real
objection to Federation is that the Federal tariff
does a little to encourage N.S.W. industry, and
to find work and wages for the N.S.W. people,
and thereby does a little damage to his sordid
business of discouraging N.S.W. industry and
starving out N.S.W. workmen to make room for
imports. It is always difficult for an importer to
be a Christian. It is his business to object to the
native industry which supplies work and wages
for the Australian father, and food for the
Australian wife and kid, and which provides the
country with population, and makes it prosperous
and strong to resist attack; for all these good
things mean a lessened demand for his imports.
Therefore, he is the public enemy by profession
and occupation. And when the importer class
turns secessionist and anti-Australian, it is difficult
for it to be even a fragment of a Christian. And
the secesh person is sour and cantankerous, in
addition to his other sins. He is grudging and
mean, and is always trying to make new seces-
sionists by alleging that some other State may
possibly get 2d. ahead of “our” State. In many
cases he clamors for secesh on the ground that, if
N.S.W. doesn’t break away from the Union, it
will have to pay something towards the cost of
protecting the Northern Territory (our open back
door) against Asiatic invasion. In that case he
ranks as a sordid traitor—the worst, meanest, and
lowest traitor in all history ; one who would sell
our country, our civilisation, and our race to
Asiatic semi-barbarism in order to save his own
pocket the price of a few cigars. That kind of
secessionist ranks with the person who would give
his daughter in marriage to a gorilla to save the
price of the trousseau that might be required if
she married a human being. If such a secessionist
can be a Christian, he must needs do it with a
dead lift, and the chances are that the lift would
necessitate the employment of a crane. Alto-
gether, The Bulletin has an idea that it would
like to meet with a Christian secessionist, just to
see how he did it, and what he was like when he
had done it.
The Scream of one Adams.
Just at the moment the depressed and anxious
Secesh person who is keeping up the chief corres-
pondence in the daily papers is one J. L. Adams.
He isn’t quite the magnificent liar that some of
his species are, but he is a sorrowful and heart-
broken inhabitant, with a purely parish view of
things. He feels that under Federation N.S.W.
is at the mercy of the Commonwealth, just as the
other States are, and just as Nottinghamshire or
Berkshire is at the mercy of England, and just as
Parramatta is at the mercy of N.S.W., and Cook
Ward is at the mercy of the Corporation of
Sydney. J. L. Adams expends columns of space
over arguments which only amount to a protest
against everything that has been done in the way
of promoting order ever since the anarchical
monkey left his tree-top and began to make his
first attempt at social organisation. And the rest
of the vast waste and wilderness of words and
Secesh argument, with which J. L. Adams fills
columns of daily paper space, is devoted to showing
how much money N.S.W. might save if it broke
away from the Commonwealth. (It is amazing
how these little sedition-mongers talk about
imitating J eff Davis and his Confederacy, and
rushing into a policy which might cost £10,000,000
in money and thousands of lives, and how they
cavort round as if treason and breakage of the
Constitution wei’e a little tippety-tappety game
of ping-pong.) Adams’ figures are vastly exag-
gerated, bu t still the fact remains that N.S.W.
would save a little immediate cash by breaking
away from the Commonwealth. It would save
the cost of its share in the construction of an Aus-
tralian navy, and it would avoid its share of the
responsibility of garrisoning Australia’s most vul-
nerable point, the Northern Territory, in the in-
terests of the White Australia policy. If a great
Asiatic invasion comes this way—as it almost cer-
tainly will some day, when Britain is fully occu-
pied elsewhere—the Adams policy would avoid
the expenditure of some money, by taking no
notice till the trouble reached N.S.W. itself.
Then, of course, it would have to take notice. ,1.
L. Adams is firmly (and quite correctly) assured
that some outlay could be avoided in the imme-
diate present by letting Australia slide. In the
same way, supposing N.S.W. could secede from
Australia, and save money thereby, the inland
parts of N.S.W. could save some more money by
seceding from N.S.W., on the ground that they
are under no more obligation to pay for a mili-
tary force that is mainly required to defend the
exposed localities of Sydney and Newcastle from
attack than N.S.W. is required to defend the
Northern Territory from attack. In like
manner the inland counties of England have every
right to secede, on the ground that they would
thereby save their contribution to the cost of the
British fleet; they never see the fleet, and, being
inland localities, they don’t want a fleet. And if
Britain were half as grossly selfish an institution
as J. L. Adams, it would expressly intimate
to all whom it might concern that it would never,
under any circumstances, pay anythingtowards the
cost of defending N.S.W. against foreign attack,
N.S.W. being a great deal further from Eng-
land than the Northern Territory is from N.S.W.
J. L. Adams deserves a monument all to himself,
He is parochialism incarnate. He has plainly
never heard of Australia'. He has apparently
never heard of patriotism or national spirit. If
the British empire were made up of individuals
like him it would be split into 100,000 fragments,
each of the less exposed fragments busy saving 2d.
by refusing to contribute to the defence of the
more exposed fragments, and each in turn losing
its life and its carefully hoarded 2d. after its more
exposed neighbors went down. J. L. Adams’
ideal State is one in which Penrith wouldn’t worry
about the defence of Sydney, so long as the enemy
wasn’t in sight of Penrith itself; and Katoomba
wouldn’t begin to think of defence till the Asiatic
hordes had occupied Penrith ; and Bathurst, when
it heard that the invaders had burned Katoomba,
would merely remark that they were still a iong
way off, and some streak of luck might turn
up. It is difficult to understand how persons like
Adams are possible in this allegedly enlightened
age, but they are not only possible—they seem to
exist to the number of some dozens at least.
Carruthers, for example, isjust like J. L. Adams.
Food, Folly and a Rebuke.
At a mayoral banquet in Sydney, last week, the
good food was spoilt by a display of doubtful
taste and'some folly. There were two Admirals
present—the State Governor of N.S.W. and the
Admiral in charge of the Australian station—and
certain anti-Australians thought it a good oppor-
tunity to parade their horror at the thought of an
Australian navy. It was in doubtful taste, seeing
that neither Admiral is supposed to have any
“ politics ” in public. And as an effort to
curry favor with the British guests it was
foolish, being based on a complete misunder-
standing of the British attitude on this
point. Is is by no means the case that
the British people are with the local anti-
Australians in their opposition to an Australian
navy. The most influential of the London news-
papers agree absolutely with the Australian atti-
tude as expressed in The Bulletin, and so do the
most important of the ‘‘Service” journals, and
very many of the chief public men. The anti-
Australian who goes abroad to cry “Stinking
Fish ” about his own country usually does so with
an idea that, by making an offensive display of
himself, he will please the “ British aristocracy ” ;
his conduct only excites contemptuous surprise
in those who notice it at all. Something of
the same feeling fills the average Briton when
he hears an Australian arguing fiercely that
Australia is too poor a sort of place to have even
the beginnings of a fleet of its own, and that Aus-
tralians are too helpless and cowardly a people to
do anything of value for their own defence. Mr.
Pilcher, in parading his poor opinion of Aus-
tralia on this naval question before the Governor
and Admiral, invited a snub, and got it. Admiral
Fawkes, in a speech which will be read
with pleasure throughout Australia, deliberately
“ dissociated himself from those who thought an
Australian navy impossible. He believed Anglo-
Saxons would come out right in anything.” The
rebuke was polite but severe. Mr. Pilcher was,
in effect, publicly asked by the British Admiral
to think a little better of his own country, and
not to seek to curry favor with Britain by throw-
ing dirt and contumely at a community that is
mainly of British descent.
■Wanted, Another 80,000 Minimum.
When the N.S.W. State Government takes its
bogus referendum, professedly to find out whether
the people of N.S.W. are satisfied with the pro-
posal to have the capital of Australia beside the
magnificent Snowy River on Monaro, or whether
they would prefer to have it in a comparatively
dry spot where all the trade will go to the already
congested port of Sydney, it will, if it is logical,
require that at least 160,000 votes shall be cast
against the Monaro site before the existence
of any popular dissatisfaction is recognised.
Joseph’s present disturbance arises out of the
proviso that the capital must be in N.S.W. The
chance to insert that proviso arose solely through
the failure of the first Constitution Bill to become
law in N.S.W. And it didn’t fail on its merits,
for there was a majority in favor of the Bill; it
failed solely because the N.S.W. Parliament loaded
the dice by declaring that unless the majority in
favor of the measure numbered at least 80,000 votes
(only men had votes then) its decision should be of
no account and should be annulled. But for that
loading of the dice there would have been no
clause stating that the capital must be in N.S.W ~
and the present row couldn’t have happened.
Now consider the new position as compared with
the old one. In the first case the I ederationists,
whatever their majority, were disqualified unless
they could raise 80,000 votes; if there had
been 79,999 votes against provincialism and only
one for it, provincialism would have triumphed
all the same. In the present case the provincial-
ists claim, as an additional concession, that the
N.S.W. State Legislature should have the right
to choose the capital site, and in pursuance of
that claim, they make the astonishingly cheeky
proposal that a referendum shall he taken
to say whether in N. S. Wales more votes


can be got in favor of Dalgety than in
favor of all other possible sites put together.
And by way of going one better than their old
80,000 minimum swindle, they propose that unless
Dalgety gets more votes than- all other possible
sites put together it shall be rejected. All the
advocates of all the other sites will naturally vote
against Dalgety, just as all the advocates of all
other sites would vote against Yass or Lyndhurst
or any place; and on that basis, and by that
disreputable fraud, there will be a majority against
Dalgety just as there would be against any other
site if put to a similar faked test. The political
welshers who loaded the dice against Federation
nearly 10 years ago are thus just the same old politi-
cal welshers. It is up to the provincialists to show
that they believe in the fairness of their own
policy of 10 years ago by applying it to themselves.
On that previous occasion it was held that unless
80,000 male voters declared their dissatisfaction
with the existing order of things no dissatis-
faction would be recognised as existent. Now,
to make things level, it should be held
that unless 160,000 male and female voters
express their dissatisfaction with the exist-
ing condition of things—said condition being
that the Australian Parliament has decided that
a site by the Snowy River is the best one for a
Federal capital—-no one shall be officially aware
that there is any objection to Dalgety at all. Of
course, as the anti-Federalists of the Carruthers
Ministry sit in the place where the ballot can be
officially faked, and the ballot-box officially
stuffed, there is not the least probability of any
such fair deal as this taking place. Still it is dis-
tinctly the turn of the anti-Federalists to struggle
against an 80,000 minimum (which would be a
160,000 minimum under the new conditions), and
they would get a quite rare and unusual reputa-
tion for honesty by doing as herein suggested.
The Australian Mail Contract.
The Australian Government can be credited with
a rare degree of patience in its negotiations
with the unreliable English syndicate which
tendered for the Australian mail contract.
In the first instance the Government made
what appeared to be an excellent bargain.
It was, therefore, generally abused by the
Opposition and the Opposition newspapers for
daring to do anything which might advantage Aus-
tralia. That was the first phase of the matter. This
storm of abuse had hardly subsided when the
syndicate which had tendered began to show the
cloven hoof which the “Private Enterprise
syndicate usually has concealed in its boot, and
to uncoil from beneath its spotless frock coat a
curiously spiked tail. Possibly the syndicate,
having read the comments of the Opposition
papers in Australia, and noticed their bitterly
unpatriotic and anti-Australian attitude, calcu-
lated that it would be a good thing to squeeze
the Government a little further, as help
could be reckoned on from the Opposition in
any step which meant detriment to Australia.
Anyhow, the syndicate began to go outside its
signed bargain in search of further concessions.
Its new proposals to the Australian Government
practically meant that if the new line were to be
a success the contractors should enjoy all the
profits, but that if it were to be a failure Aus-
tralia would have to step in and shoulder all the
loss. That was a game of “ heads you win, tails
I lose,” which Prime Minister Deakin wasn’t
willing to play on behalf of Australia with any
syndicate. Then the mail service promoters
began to talk of extra guarantees. Failing to
get them from the Australian Government (which
in fairness could not give the successful tenderer
any special new concessions, to the possible detri-
ment of other unsuccessful tenderers), it has been
seeking them from the States, and, at latest, Vic-
toria was willing to give the syndicate special help
in return for special concessions for Victorian
producers. But obviously the Australian Govern-
ment has no right to sanction that. Under a
Federal contract, all the States must have fully
equal rights and privileges. There is, of course,
nothing actually illegal in the arrangement which
the Victorian State Government offers. Anybody
—a State Government, or a bank, or a private
individual, or a Rechabite lodge, or the Shah of
Persia—has a right to lend its money or its
guarantee to the syndicate. And when Victoria
asks, in return for its big cash guarantee, the first
claim upon 1200 tons of cargo space on each boat
for the carriage of its products it commits no
breach of any Federal arrangement; the Federal
arrangement is for a swift fleet of mail-ships, and
the distribution of cargo space isn’t mentioned in
the bargain. Moreover, Victoria offers to any and
every other State that likes to join it in the
guarantee a share of the advantages for which it has
stipulated. But despite all these points the arrange-
ment is wholly undesirable. Prime Minister
Deakin should hold the syndicate firmly to its
bargain ; if the bargain is not carried out, the
delay and loss occasioned will have to be entered
as a debit—as the price paid for experience as to
the ways of Private Enterprise syndicates,
especially foreign syndicates. Then negotiations
on a surer basis should be opened with Australian
firms, or the Government should decide to itself
undertake the work of organising a European
mail service. There is no reason for pessimism if
the syndicate fails to carry out its bargain. Aus-
tralia is big enough and strong enough to face the
situation.
The Australian Fleet.
“ Amphibious ” writes as follows :
With all the prestige of your enthusiastic endorsement,
you publish a letter from Dr. R. Arthur
The Bulletin interrupts here to say something
about the enthusiastic endorsement. Looking at
it now, it is quite prepared to admit that its re-
mark might be misleading ; but when it “recom-
mended ” Dr. Arthur's letter “ to the considera-
tion of all Australians,” it didn’t intend to endorse
his scoff at Captain Creswell, or his idea of
training our sailors in old ships and postponing
the creation of a real fleet for 10 years. But it
did intend to express its whole-souled admiration
for almost the only politician we have who
preaches at all times the need for population and
the urgent necessity for a real defence system.
After this interruption, “ Amphibious ” may
resume.
——containing the following :
“ I am weary alike of W. H. Kelly and Captain
Creswell. The problem of Australian Defence contains
more things than either of them dream of. . . . As for
Creswell and his toy flotilla, the thing is either a joke
or an imbecility. Any compliance with this scheme
would mean sheer waste of money, and would delude the
easily-cajoled Australian public into an utterly unfounded
sense of security.... What then is to stand between us
and the might of the Power whose navy will have un-
disputed control Of the Pacific ? Frankly, Ido not know,
although I can say without hesitation that it is not
Captain Creswell’s mosquito crafts.”
I am certain that Captain Creswell does not yield even
to Dr. Arthur in devotion to Australia and regard for
her welfare. He may be credited with some smattering
of professional knowledge, and particularly in a question
which he has made his close life study for many years,
and assuredly he would not be capable of either a “ joke ”
or an “ imbecility ” in a matter of such huge responsi-
bility as the initiation of a naval policy for Australia.
I think Dr. Arthur and your readers generally may
take it as certain that every possible line of advance in
naval development had been carefully examined before
the present one of a torpedo flotilla defence to be built
in Australia was adopted. As to any idea that the tor-
pedo defence would suffice in such a contingency as Dr.
Arthur sets forth —invading attack in force from a power
outside Europe—Dr. Arthur may be certain that neither
Captain Creswell nor any other person with ordinary
brains has any such illusion.
The difference between* Dr. Arthur’s and Captain
Creswell’s ideas would, therefore, be narrowed down to
the years before the arrival of the danger belt in this cen-
tury. Dr. Arthur advocates the borrowing of old war-
ships now, and a loan of £10,000,,000, and the purchase of
a fleet eight or 10 years hence. A little closer look into
this idea would have changed Dr. Arthur’s view. The
“cast-off” ship, the vague, indefinite training of men
for an equally vague and indefinite purpose, is waste.
That poor farce lias been played before. We remember
the Wolverine. Such vessels, too, are perfect sinks, down
which to pour Expenses for repairs. The years of pre-
paration passed in such increasingly old crocks would be
spiritless to our sailors, but this is too obvious to require
words. For all this time, and for the purchase of the
£10,000,000 fleet, we should be dependent on Great Britain
across the globe. If the £10,000,000 fleet were damaged
seriously, our dockyards would be unable to deal with or
rebuild it. To cable for a fresh fleet and for another
£10,000,000 would require a high rate of interest.
Now, against this, Captain Oresswell’s proposals are
to build in Australia —and many leading firms have al-
ready expressed willingness to do so—the vessels to
meet the definite requirements laid down. To build and
commission these vessels will cost n.i more, probably less,
than it would to keep six old cruisers in repair and
commission, and think what else is gained? ADVANCE
—ever advance in naval progress and real efficiency.
Advance with the building and the class of vessel we re-
quire. We shall gain experience and responsibility
of the Government and the country in dealing directly
with naval matters, the experience of a personnel—
not of shadowy-purpOsed Naval Brigades or Re-
serves, but of a Government in authority and men
experienced in actual work, and in measuring their
means to accomplish it —the most valuable of all experi-
ence. And all working up to what? Why, when the
time comes for a big national effort, it will not be repre-
sented by a £10,000,000 cheque cabled to London for a
fleet, but £10,000,000 to be expended on the spot in works
and yards, fed from our iron and steel works, and our
coal mines. And what does that £10,000,000 expended
here mean ? Not alone the self-contained power, the pro-
ducing power which is worth many times 10 millions, but
it means many thousands of men at work in yards and
works, requiring many thousands in the country to feed
them. And which country of the two —Dr. Arthur’s or
Captain Crkswell’s— would be in a better position to
raise a loan ? A country with power in itself or one with
power to borrow only ?
Dr. Arthur really thus seems to have cheerfully waded
in to bludgeon his best friend —one who, I can say with
confidence, is perhaps the most earnest believer in Dr.
Arthur’s ideas (I know this for a fact) —who regards
population as the basis of defence. On the question of
the present power and efficiency of the toy fleet, i.e., its
direct return for expenditure, you may have every confi-
dence, notwithstanding opponents of the Kelly type,
who expect a destroyer to fight a Dreadnought in broad
daylight, and condemn it if unable. As to the indirect
return —the building, and population drawing, the iron
and steel encouragement, are plain to all.
Just by way of postscript, The Bulletin fancies
that “Amphibious” misunderstands Dr. Arthur
on one point. There was no mention in his letter
of borrowing the £10,000,000 to create an Aus-
tralian fleet. The remark that we must, if
necessary, submit to be “taxed to the last
penny ” rather suggested creating the necessary
fund out of taxation.
Undesirable Visitors.
One of the saddest of recent cable items is the
announcement that Keir Hardie, “ leader of the
Independent Labor party in the British Parlia-
ment,” is about to visit Australia, The state-
ment is added that the object of Mr. Hardie’s
visit is to study Australian legislation; but this
does not materially detract from the gravity of
the situation. All the visiting Labor leaders
come with the same yarn ; but they have hardly
got both feet on the wharf before they begin
lecturing instead of learning. Australia, and
especially the Labor party of Australia, is getting
very tired of these visitors. They are as
great a nuisance as the London alderman
and the Manchester manufacturer, who, when
they come to these parts, give rise to the legends
concerning the bolting of capital and the horror
of the foreign investor. Australia has had three
visiting Labor men lately— Tom Mann, Ramsay
Macdonald, and Ben Tillett. Keir Hardie
makes a good fourth. Mann is with us yet—to
our sorrow. Of the four, Tillett, Mann, and
Hardie are all of the one class. They are windy,
frothy, and shallow irreconcilables, whose stock-
in-trade is to call upon the workers to arise and
break their chains, and to take some undefined
weapon and smite somebody, not precisely
specified, with an indefinite amount of smite.
The bewildered listener, even with the most
fervent desire to smite, can gather nothing to
guide him from the Mann and Tillett 1 ravings.
It would, at least, be a little to the purpose
if, for example, Sam Hordern or Rupert
Clarke were pointed out, and the exact
nature of the proposed injury set forth. Simi-
larly, instead of vague talk of revolution which
leads to nothing, it would be interesting to hear
these beer-froth orators get down to details, and
make arrangements for enrolling, arming, and
drilling their forces, and fix a date for the out-
break, and mention where timber and other
material for barricades could be procured. The
Mann, Tillett, and Hardie type of agitator is
common in England, where such vaporings are
taken less notice of than the capture of a 201 b.
salmon. All the bubbly oratory of these men
hasn’t had the slightest tangible effect upon the
condition of the British workers. Mann and Co.
haven’t succeeded in loosening a single rivet of the
“chains.” They haven’t even agreed amongst
themselves which rivet to attack first. The present
British Parliament contains 50 Labor members —
out of a total of nearly 700; and these 50 are divided
into three parties. Keir Hardie is the leader
of one of the small parties; and yet, when he gets
here, he will probably try to teach the Australian
Federal Labor party. That party, which is a
splendid example of discipline and solidarity,
knows more than Keir Hardie’s crowd has ever
dreamt of. All that men like Tillett, Mann,
and Hardie do is to bring labor politics into con-
tempt, and to serve as useful arguments in defence
of Toryism. Intellectually they are miles below
Watson, Hughes and Price ; and altogether they
are a great weariness. Also they are a pest.
The Bulletin therefore moves that Keir Hardie
be asked, before he lands, to write 50 words in the
Polish language, and, if he fails to do so, that he
be sent back in the ship that brought him.
Carruthers and his Insane Three-Cornered
Bridge.
The N.S.W. Premier and his wonderful tri-
angular, three-jointed North Sydney bridge
scheme are still heard from at intervals. In a
sense the North Shore bridge is like the Sydney
city railway station. The city station was talked
of by futile State politicians for 40 years. It was
agreed on all sides that it was an absurdity to have
the railway terminus of a great city in a remote
suburb ; but after two generations of silly argu-
ment as to whether the city station should be on the
east or the west side of George-street, everybody
was as tired as if he had walked 27 miles. So
when a reckless politician suddenly built the new
station on the old remote spot, there was very
little complaint. Everybody was too stunned to
complain much. Similarly the North Shore
bridge has been used by politicians for advertis-
ing purposes till everybody is so dead tired of the
very name of it, that anything is liable to happen.
There is only one possible site for the bridge, but
that site has been mentioned to death during 40
years of repetition, and N.S.W., from sheer
hatred of its futile State politicians, would almost
welcome a proposal to build a bridge over Behring
Strait for a change. And here Joe Carruthers
comes in. He proposes to construct a bridge via
Goat Island and Balmain. It would be almost
twice as long as the direct bridge—33ooft. instead
of 1800 ft. It would start from a remote and out-
of-the-way corner of Sydney. It would miss all
the populous part of North Sydney, and arrive in
the midst of the bush at the edge of nowhere.
Incidentally it would strike a corner of Balmain
far away from the centre of population. It is the
last possible fool and circumbendibus in the way
of a proposal. But Goat Island is Federal pro-
perty, and the new idea enables Joseph to be
nasty by demanding that the Australian Govern-
ment should surrender Goat Island, and to
profess that the Australian Government pre-
vents the building of the wonderful bridge.
Probably the thing that would make Joseph the
maddest man on earth would be the passing of a
Federal Act which provided that the bridge might
be built, and that, as soon as it was completed and
the trains had started to run over it, Goat Island
would be handed over to the N.S.W. State
Government. Then Carruthers wouldn’t build
his loony .bridge, but he would no longer be able
to profess that it was the Australian Government
which stood in the way. At least, he would pro-
bably go on professing, but it would be very hard
to persuade people to believe him. In the way of
professing, it is hard to say where Joseph would
stop.
+
Fines.
“ Y” writes :
Many who thought Truck Acts and other workshop and
factory laws had compelled employers to pay employees
the full wages earned, were astonished at the recent
revelations in N.S.W. Arbitration Court. One after
another, employers admitted to deducting from the wages
earned sums for thread, needles, and other requisites to
the business, and numerous sums denominated “fines.”
The practice of “ fining ” should in particular be brought
under law. It is a widespread, and enormous, and
grotesque iniquity. The late sensationally-murdered
Whiteley, of London, ran up a code of 159 rules, all
worth 2d. or more in fines, and, of course, the fines were
imposed by a court which heard only one side of
the case, and from which there was no appeal.
Some offences : “ Lounging about in an unbusiness-like
manner, 3d.” ; “Not introducing at least two articles to
each customer, 2d.”; “Unnecessary talking, 6d.”;
“Losing copy of rules, 2d.” Other Captains of Industry,
as the big drapers like to be called, run up codes of 160
and more “ fine ” offences. Employers often aggregate a
substantial sum from this device.
“ Cleaning, as well as rent,” says a writer in the New
Review, “ is sometimes met by a weekly charge of 2d. or
3d. for c eaning the workroom.” The writer goes on to
say that one employer pays Iss. a week for cleaning the
premises, and deducts, in all, 30s. a week from his em-
ployees to cover the cost! The man who makes his staff
pay his charwoman is a genius in the way of meanness.
Miss Clementina Black, in “ Sweated Industry ” (Duck-
worth and Co., 1907), gives records for three successive
weeks in an English stay-factory, the wages, deductions
and receipts running thus :
(1) Nominal Wage .. 9/8} .. 8/- .. 10/2}
Deductions .. 1/4* .. ~/9} .. 1/6
Wage Received .. 8/41 .. 7/2} .. 8/B,}
(2) Nominal Wage .. 9/2} .. 8/6 .. 8/4
Deductions .. 2/2 .. 1/7 .. 1/11
Wage Received .. 7/0} .. 6/11 .. 6/5
(3) Nominal Wage .. 5/3} .. 5/2 .. 6/5
Deductions .. 1/4* .. 1/9 .. 1/9
Wage Received .. 3/11} .. 3/5 .. 3/8
It does not satisfy the claims of humanity or justice to
hand a hook of the code of fines to an applicant
for work, and thereby obtain his or her consent to the
“ bargain.” As there is no impartial tribunal to try the
accused, and no tribunal of any sort to which, without
loss of billet, he can appeal, the system is iniquitous from
one end to the other. It is forced on the employee who,
in an overcrowded market, recognises that if he does not
accept he must starve. To raise wages is a futile
thing while the greedy employer simply deducts
the increase, calling his deductions fines for the
breach of some items in an ingeniously con-
cocted code. “Young lady with soiled collar” was
a 3d. fine under Whiteley. “ Young lady with soiled
cuff,” another 3d. “ Young lady appearing untidy,”
another 3d. Miss Clementina Black mentions the case
of a retail drapery and fancy goods foreman, whose busi-
ness it was to collect fines, and who was required to make
up a fixed sum of money from this source every week.
That foreman was himself a married man with a family,
and knew he would lose his employment if the sum were
not forthcoming. Girls nominally earning 11s. were by
this foreman reduced regularly by fines of one sort and
another by 4s. per week. Australia has already acclima-
tised this robbery and drapery swindle, and if the law
does not suppress it, there is nothing to prevent the
worst abuses of other countries creeping in.
♦
The “S.M. Herald” Speaks Out.
Sydney Morning Herald gladdened Australians
last week with a leader that was “straight
Federal.” The small cantankerousness of Joseph
seemed to have got on the Herald’s nerves, and
it broke out: —
Is N.S.W. desirous of assuming the long-discarded
mantle of South Carolina? Let those who think of
forcing her into that unenviable position read the early'
history of the American Federation, and what came out of a
small tariff matter and a high sense of the dignity of a
sovereign State. But wherein do our grievances lie ? If
the Federal capital site still remains State territory on
whom rests the responsibility? Partly on the State
Government and partly on those whom we ourselves have
sent to represent us in the Federal Legislature. If the
administration of the Customs-house or of the Post and
Telegraph Department does not come up to expectations,
new administrators may be needed, or the clothing of ex-
isting officials with more discretionary power may be all
that is necessary. At any rate, interstate Freetrade,
which Federation has given us, amply compensates us for
Customs pinpricks, which should be removable, and
cheaper telegrams and uniform postal rates and usages
go far as a set-off against those petty irritations which it
should be the authorities’ most earnest endeavor to put
an end to. If we compare the administration of these
two great departments of Federal activity with that of
the Lands Department, solely controlled by'the State, we
do not believe that anyone will be found to urge that the
Commonwealth comes unfavorably out of the com-
parison.
Which last is very nasty indeed to Joseph. The
Herald takes breath and goes on ;
The Union has already accomplished one of the great
objects of its creation. It has awakened in us a sense of
our national responsibilities. Had it not been for Federa-
tion, the pressing danger of the unoccupied North would
never have come home to the people as it has now done.
South Australia might have gone on muddling till her
financial position became so strained as to be unbearable,
but the people of Australia would not even then have
realised that this was a problem in which their national
existence was involved. Had Federation done no more
than to arouse interest in this subject, the price we have
paid would not have been too great.
Had anti-Federalists been able to point to Federal
extravagance in the past, they might have made out a
more plausible case. But they cannot do so. Although
the Commonwealth might easily have incurred debt, it
has not done so.
They say that Macquarie-street doctors had a
busy morning administering restoratives to aged
members of the Cabbage Tree Mob, who had that
bombshell served up to them at breakfast.
+
Still another correspondent sends along the
familiar circular of the Derk P. Yonkerman Co.,
Ltd., of 64 Pitt-street, Sydney, and London
(England), and Kalamazoo (U.S.)—the. consump-
tion cure folk who are so anxious that you
shouldn’t die that their anguished communications
often keep on reaching your relatives even after
you are quite dead : x
Dear Sir,—We do not wish to burden you with our cor-
respondence, but we feel that it is a solemn duty we owe
our fellow beings to repeatedly stretch forth a helping
hand to those whom we know are suffering and in dis-
tress. We cannot be indifferent to you even though your
sister fails to continue our treatment, for we are in-
terested in her welfare, and want her to know the joy of
living which comes with perfect health. The knowledge
that Tuberculozyne cures consumption, catarrh, bron-
chitis, and asthma, and that it is absolutely safe and cer-
tain, is what prompts us to follow this case so closely and
persistently in an effort to have you do your part in this
fight against disease.
In the past we have explained to you the true princi-
ples of our treatment, and why it cures ; and when she
placed herself in our hands after doctors and other treat-
ments and remedies had failed, you surely must have
realised how serious was her case, and that there was
much to be overcome before a recovery could be accom-
plished. In any case of consumption, accompanied by
acute complications, the system becomes an appropriate
and fertile ground for the birth, rapid growth, and in-
crease of the consumption germs. For months they may
have been devouring her vital organs, and filling her
system with poisonous matter, until she was almost hope-
less of cure ; and now, just when our treatment may
have the disease quite under control, she seems to have
given up the struggle in despair.
But she need not despair, she may yet he cured ;
for Tuberculozyne cures by killing the germs and un-
loading the system of accumulated corruption. It gives
new life by restoring the vital organs to their normal
healthy condition, and it is the only remedy known that
does this. It is thus that the cures accomplished are
lasting, because the real cause of the disease—the con-
sumption germs —are destroyed and expelled from the
system. Only then can the air she breathes, and the
food she eats be properly digested and absorbed to pro-
duce healthy blood and tissue, and to give the desired
vitality.,
In a recent letter we called attention to the danger,
not only to the patient, but to your immediate family, if
our treatment is neglected at this time, and we pointed
out to you the terrible contagious nature of consumption
and the obligation you are under to shield your family
and your friends from this terrible curse of humanity.
We made you a concession in order that she might con-
tinue the treatment until her recovery was complete, and
we did this to prove how very anxious we are to rescue
her from this fatal disease. The question you must now
decide is ; Will you take advantage of a last effort which
we are making to induce her to continue a treatment
which we believe offers to her the only chance of life and
health ?
We cannot see her give up in despair and become one
more victim of this terrible plague, when we believe she
can be saved, and so we are ready to supply her with a
A Ballad of Perfect Curse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A vision there is abides with me—a vision of
scorching verse,
Whose every line shall faultless be —the essence
of Perfect Curse !
An hour will come—an hour sublime —when I,
with an inkpot vast,
Shall fashion a grim and mordant rhyme, whose
words shall rend and blast!
Red thoughts shall drip from the speeding pen—
they’ll be written in god-like ink ;
They shall reach the minds of careless men—they
shall force the world to think !
It haunts me aye, that vision of bliss—o vision
of joy perverse,
When I shall fashion with words that hiss the
Ballad of Perfect Curse !
The looms of thought a song shall weave—an
anthem fierce and grand,
Whose flashing lines like swords shall cleave the
shams that infest the land !
The roaring flails of rhyme shall beat, like
hammers of massy steel,
When at last I fix in a song complete the thoughts
that I sometimes feel!
The thoughts that come when the blatant world
lies hushed in cow-like sleep—
Like thunderbolts they shall be hurled, and the
souls of men shall leap !
Aye, the earth shall start like a guilty thing—
shall drop like a toad its purse
When the shattering stanzas roll and ring of the
Ballad of Perfect Curse!
The palsied creeds shall wither away —shall pass
from the sight of man ;
And kings shall rush in a Judgment Dray, while
he shall drive who can !
No more to cash the knee shall bend—no more
shall white men creep
Like prostrate worms to their journey’s end-
yea, men shall be more than sheep !
The New Republic’s flag shall fly—new eras men
shall see.
When my metred blast goes roaring by like the
blast of artillery !
0 song unsung ! O god-like thought that my in-
most soul doth nurse,
That by my pen may yet be wrought the Ballad
of Perfect Curse!
Volcanic thoughts sweep through the night—red
tides of lava gleam;
They pour their blaze of crimson light athwart
my burning dream !
The pregnant lines take shining form, the long
stern metres swing—
I hear thy voice, incarnate storm, for ever
thundering !
Like vivid lightnings through my soul the jagged
curses flash —
The blazing tides transmuted roll in rhymes, 0
God of Cash !
I see pale Cant—it scuttles by, a dead thing in a
Hearse,
And fetiches piled mountain high—slain by my
Perfect Curse !
A vision abides for aye with me —His a vision of
burning verse,
Whose clarion lines shall perfect be —the essence of
Faultless Curse!
An Hour will come—an Hour sublime vjhen I,
with an ink-pot vast,
Shall fashion a most infuriate rhyme whose words
shall blight and blast!
Red thoughts shall drip from the speeding pen, and
I’ll boil down hell for ink —
I shall write an epistle to careless men that shall
force the world to Think !
It haunts me, that dream of joy and light (0 world
where good dreams are scarce !),
That the gods have appointed me to write the Song
of the Perfect Curse.
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY.
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemists refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l^d.
The Showman’s Moneymaker.—The Edi-
son Cinematograph—write for particulars. Fi Ims
in great variety in stock. We stock everything
for showmen. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., 5.)6
George-street, wholesalers for Fdison Phono-
graphs and products.*
full month’s treatment of Tuberculozyne for a merely
nominal fee ; rather than have her condition grow more
serious, we will send you a full month’s treatment upon
receipt of but 20s. We want to cure her, and believe we
may do so, if you will only do your part and send for the
medicine at once.
Anxiously yours,
(Signed) Derk P. Yonkerman Co., Ltd.
Thus does the voice of the soulless quack holler
even on the bank of the Styx, offering to sell his
beastly bottle for twenty bob, to the disturbance
of Chakon the ferryman, who has already rowed
the consumptive’s ghost halfway across.
»
In Westralia the nefarious truck system—the
long-since-abolished “tommy shop” method of
the bad old days in England—still exists in places,
naked, glaring, blatant, and unashamed. The
great insolent Timber Combine practises it for all
it is worth. One of the demands made by the
men is that they should be allowed to put up their
own houses at their own expense, instead of
being compelled to live in any kind of cottage
the Combine likes to put up, and to pay
any rent the Combine likes to charge. To this,
manager Teesdale Smith returned a flat negative,
and said :
We will erect, as we have hitherto done, decent
cottages where necessary, and the men will pay a fair
rental.
Teesdale Smith and the Combine deciding, of
course, what is a “fair rental.” And to another
demand made by the men—that they might be
allowed to run their own co-operative stores
instead of being compelled to buy their food at
the Combine’s “tommy-shop” at any prices the
Combine cares to ask for any kind of food the
Combine thinks fit to supply—nigger-driver Tees-
dale Smith thus replied
I said we would certainly agree to let the employees
run any stores they liked provided they would give us
AN EQUIVALENT OF THE STORE PROFITS IN A REDUCTION OF
WAGES, WHICH I ESTIMATED AT ABOUT 6d. PER DAY PER MAN,
MAKING THEIR MINIMUM 6s. 9d. INSTEAD OF 7s. 3d.
The nominal wages are pitiful enough, and yet it
is practically admitted by Teesdale Smith that
the men are diddled out of 6d. a day of their
scanty pay at the Combine’s “ tommy shop.”
And Smith hasn’t the moral sense to be ashamed
of this.
♦
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Here are my answers to
Quans” relevant questions (8., 30/5/’O7), the
irrelevant and irreverent ones do not concern the
present administrative heads :
(1) I do know some N.S.W. public school inspectors
who look upon this New Syllabus as tommy-rot; but Xdo
not know any inspectors in whose districts no attempt is
being made to introduce it. Even the most antiquated
and ought-to-be-superannuated fossil of an inspector is
sure to have some live teachers who keep in touch with
modern developments.
(2) There be some folk who regard every innovation as
an improvement; there be others who like to shuffle alone
in the old ruts of a rusty past.
(?) Superficial people think that “ dambi-extra drorin ”
and blasticene puddling,” and a few other frilly fads,
are the very soul of the New Syllabus. I have defined the
t ® everal tlmes for Bulletin borrowers and readers.
(4) I do not know any inspectors who were appointed
because they were prominent members of a teachers’
orgamsation. An organisation must be a limp, lukewarm
affair, if the promotion of some of its leaders can bust it
up.
(5) I do not know of any who were appointed because
it wasn t considered safe for children to be taught by
men with such violent tempers ; but I do know of two
able men who were not made inspectors, because thev
were both a bit hot-headed. J
(6) I do know quite a dozen out of the three dozen or
so who would be considered good teachers under the New
Syllabus.
C) I do not know many who made their schools
a haven, a sort of second home, a place of light and
love, a place of dear delights, to be remembered after with
warm gratitude in the strife and stress of maturer years ”
Some there were who believed in light and color, and
warmth and humor, as foundations for sure sympathy and
beneficial understanding. In the era before the New
Syllabus some of us got great kudos for our work in this
direction by the two present heads of the Department
Of course, there will always be educational icebergs, who
u'!f- Ve at a sc . h . ool should be like a prison, bare, stern
chilling, unenticing, uncompromising, frowning for-
bidding. They ought to be sent rabbit-trapping.
(8 and last) I do know teachers who assembled school
half-an-hour before the prescribed time, and dismissed it
an hour after the right time, and who were accused by
parents of harassing their pupils for their own ends an
inspectorship. Some hold sheaves of grateful lettersfrom
pupils who were successful in after life ; splendid presents
from thankful poor parents ; valuable gifts from the
townsfolk amongst whom they labored. I know one
who gave Saturday lessons from 9 am. to 12.30 p m for
15 years in the country and the city, free, gratis’ and
°J. n gthing’. He had no unwilling pupils and no dis-
satisfied parents.
In conclusion, I desire to say that much of my small
measure of success is due to two teachers (now dead)
who taught in historic old Parramatta, and who were not
afraid to give extra tuition, free of charge, to the ambiti-
ous sons and daughters of poor folk, like my own folk
These two teachers were not clock-watchers and time-
killers ; they were workers. God be good to them !
Occupiers of N.S.W. State lands, newly-arrived
immigrants and others, are hereby urged to study
a recent decision of the Gunnedah Land Board re
one Hogarth. Hogarth purchased the holding
of Michael Edmonds on the strength of a “ final
certificate, ” which had been granted to Michael
by the President of the Land Board himself.
Aftei the purchase, some doubts were raised as to
the vendor’s bonafides, and the transaction was
reviewed by the Land Board. Michael Edmonds
who was the respondent, objected, through his
counsel, on the ground that he had been given a
final certificate for his land, and if final didn’t
mean final, he asked what on earth did final
mean ? Counsel on the other side argued that it
was all very fine to say final was final, but what
about section this and section that, and Act No
546 and clause 3472. They went at the question for
five days, and in the end the Board decided that a
final certificate was not necessarily final, and the
holder of such a certificate was liable to have the
question of his title re-opened just as much as if
he held the most temporary certificate ever in-
y®n*ed - luckily for Hogarth, who had bought
the land the Board decided that Edmonds was
in bona-fide possession, and give him a still more
final certificate to pass on to Hogarth, but
whether this makes him any the more secure,
nobody knows. Hogarth doesn’t know for one!
Ihe decision has seriously alarmed a multitude of
the aged cocky who has been sitting in his humpy
with the final certificate under the hearth stone
and it has also terrified a cloud of mortgagees who
have lent money on these final certificates. There
is some talk of taking the case to the Land
Appeal Court. Anyway the State might be
asked to create a new title, and call it the
Absolutely Totally-Last, or the Really-the-Very-
End, or the Dead Finish, or something like that *
so that the cocky could be assured that there is a
dead stop somewhere.
+
“ The Gunyah ” writes :
Our dear Ma State has evidently set a bad example in
its continual growl re the hardships that the different
States have had to put up with since Federation. The
snarl has at last spread to Victoria, and is with reference
to the Commonwealth Patent Office library. Sec 85 of
the Australian Constitution Act provides that all State
property, used exclusively in connection with any trans-
ferred Department, shall become vested in and under the
Patent Offt® Con “wealth. When the different State
1 atent Offices were brought under the Commonwealth,
the library of each office became vested in the Australian
Government. As each library contained a vast mass of
the same publications, and the Commonwealth didn’t re-
quire the six of them, it decided to take over the Victorian
one—partly because Victoria was the possessor of two
sets of the same publications, one in the Free Public
library and the other in the State Patent Office; and also,
incidentally, to save a N.S.W. growl.
The Commonwealth has been in possession since 1904,
and has spent hundreds of pounds in binding, etc. But
now the Vic. Government can’t see why N.S.W. should
have all the growl to itself, so it has set up in opposition,
the first injustice to meet the eye being the Patent Office
library, which it wants back. Tommy Bent lit the fuse
just previous to leaving for Fogland, and left Davies to
be on hand when the explosion took place.
Meanwhile Victoria has a duplicate library which it
doesn’t use. The books are at the Free Public Library,
stowed away down in the vaults, and covered with the
dirt and dust of ages.
Victorian Government is under the impression that
the disputed library contains only valuable law books,
and no one seems desirous of removing the scales from its
eyes. If it were to carry its ridiculous point, which it
never will, and the vans were backed up outside the
Crown Law Offices, and 17,000 vols. containing nought
but dry-as-dust English specifications were emptied into
the street, then Bent would awake to the faot that the
library is of no interest to him, that he didn’t know
what he was growling about, and that the books’ proper
place is in the Patent Office. Dear old Ma State, you
have a lot to answer for.
What with petty State jealousies and “ left-behind ”
State servants pulling the strings, the life of the Common-
wealth official is fast becoming a curse. Betwixt his
duty to all of Australia and his struggle against State
bogies, he generally retires at night with a prayer that
in the morning he’ll wake up and find himself dead.
• a * )oU k , U P the Australian Government to protect
its officers, either by hiring someone to club the growlers
to death, or else by sprinkling insecticide around the
haunts of a lot of State Premiers.
A little while ago this paper reported the case of
the Mayor of Warrnambool (Vic.), who advised
his Council not to enforce the Pure Food Act,
because it was “inquisitorial.” The Board of
Health took the matter up, and the Warrnambool
Council retreated, in a violent hurry, from its
untenable position. Yet, a few days ago, an
almost similar scene was enacted in the Shire of
Mortlake, which adjoins that of Warrnambool.
The Board of Health wrote asking this Council
whether it had, during the year 1906, complied
with the Pure Food Act by submitting for analysis
at least three samples, per 1000 of population, of
food or drugs. To this polite, business-like, and
sensible inquiry was given the following reply
Councillor Dowling thought it an extraordinary
request. The Act never contemplated such a thing. It
■would, take away all power of legislation. He moved
that it lie on the table till next meeting. Seconded bv
Councillor Cumming.
Out of the 11 councillors composing this shire
council, eight are sheep squatters, and all
seem to be enthusiastic law-breakers and
advocates of dirty and adulterated food. The
consternation which the Pure Food Act is causing
amongst Victorian shire councillors is as
amusing as it is surprising. The Act is a simple
one ; and, to the ordinary person, it seems very
useful and exceedingly necessary. But the average
councillor views any interference with adultera-
tion as a sort of infernal machine, or a spring-
gun, or a mad dog, or a wild Red Indian of the
reddest character.
The S. M. Herald’s special correspondent with
the Governor-General's party in the Northern
Territory made some interesting remarks :
South of the Adelaide River the line enters a hilly
mineral belt. Hungry-looking hills, showing mostly
slate and sandstone, appear from the train, and have
been minutely prospected. A good deal of gold has been
won at various shows, and several promising copper and
tin deposits have been opened up but now the field is
almost entirely in the hands of Chinese. In fact, eight
men on the Elinor mine, near Pine Creek, are the only
whites working, if you except half-a-dozen at the Govern-
ment bore. The history of white effort on the field is a
dismal record of trusting London shareholders, of incom-
petent managers, and of thousands spent in elaborate
surface working, with reefs at depths in no wise entering
intait. From the train the Faded Lily is pointed out
at Brock’s Creek. Here over £40,000 was squandered
before 220 ft. had been sunk, and before the trust
of shareholders was shaken ; while at every point ex-
pensive machinery rusting to ruin may be seen at tne
mouths of pitifully shallow shafts. Even if he had any
capital left when he got there, no manager ever saw fit to
go below the water level, and 260 ft. is the greatest depth
reached. In nearly every case the shows were abandoned
while the shafts were still in payable ore bodies, and the
managers returned to England, vigorously denouncing
the field as unprofitable, and characterising any sug-
gestion of going below water level as absurd. Thus the
field fell into the hands of Chinese, hundreds of whom
with all their primitive methods and decidedly bad
mining, are making a good living.
In other words, it wasn’t the inability of the
white miner to work in the climate—as the pro-
Rigger party alleges but the crass incompetence
(or worse) of the imported “expert” (somebody
just like Mr. Johnson) that handed over the
mining industry of the Territory to the Chow.
Now, having made their navy quite familiar with
Australia, our devoted friends in Japan propose
to send ‘one of their greatest military leaders”
on a, ‘ holiday tour through Maoriland and Aus-
tralia about the middle of 1908,” and he will be
accompanied by “ two other officers whose achieve-
ments have made their names famous.” Doubtless
Australia will show them what maps it has, pre-
sent them with a list of its troops, explain that it
nasn t either a small-arms or an ammunition
factory, and point out that in the recent Easter
manoeuvres the broken sea-line from Botany Bay
to the Hawkesbury was manfully held by 1100
garrison troops, of whom less than 500 were
infantry. Then Premier Carruthers— if he hap-
pensto be Premier just then—wiU proudly point
•out that he has shifted the Mint, which should be
away at an inland capital, to a nice handy place
overlooking the harbor, and that if he can oblige
in any other way he’ll be so delighted. Then the
Monkey that squeezed the Bear will no doubt
smile, and put a few more things down in the
inevitable note-book, and remark that he really
■couldn t ask Australia to be more obliging than it
iias been. °
+v.?\r R ? Ij ! Ll '™. N > Father is on the warpath now amongst
nr swt? 1C H a itle ?. —he hardly £ ets time to eat his meals,
,° r ®i e ®P- He is showing- them how to tar roads with the
JnH O in He i tarfced first with a Bmall hand truck
vnf^?Q° n nlaohlne - coverin g the roads with tar at
the rate of 8 square yards per gallon of tar per minute
at a cost of carbide |d. per gallon. Then he gets out a
horse machine, covering the roads with tar at 32 yards
™ ™ ga li?" S ° f tar P u r nlinute - My word > the engineers
did open their eyes when they saw the old man at work
There was no necessity to sweep the roads or prepare
them in any w ay; he simply started the horse, and before
you could say Jack Robinson,” the road was done He
is anxious now to tar everything he sees. He says that
tar is the best disinfectant known, and that it is now
within the power of any municipality to lay the dust at a
wery nominal cost. If father gets ali the machines goiri"-
that he is now negotiating for, there will be very little
r e m . Sydney. The old man makes no mess, but
;does the job with a suit of white clothes on. Two or
three jokers started to chaff the old man, but he very
soon quietened them with the tar from the spray • that
•closed up their argument very quickly. a
He wants you to let the people know that agencies are
now opened at Block Place; off Little CoFlins street
Melbourne, at 28 Adelaide-street, Brisbane; and at
Waymouth-street, Adelaide.—Yours, etc., Bill Williams.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Spring Chicken.”
Theatre Royal Royal Grand Opera Co.
Palace “Two Little Vagabonds.”
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Blue Moon.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Squaw Man."
Theatre Royal “ In London Town.”
Buon “ For Her Children’s Sake."
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium Poster Carnival.
Marie Hall (whose first recital befell at
Sydney Town Hall last Saturday) charms rather
than stirs. It is questionable whether her body
will ever gain the strength which is necessary to
one who would be among the half-dozen on that top
where it is said that there is always room—and so
there is, if |you shove the other person off.
She will never—in this writer’s opinion—
stand with the first-rate masculine player. At
the same time, there may be a very high
place for her on the feminine side of musi-
cal expression. The feminine in art is as neces-
sary as the masculine, and the feminine seems
to be Marie Hall’s province. It is one
whose bounds will be enlarged by the experience
of life. She will gain a larger command of
emotion and of the dramatic sense. An example
is furnished by the allegro energico of the Max
Bruche Concerto. It would have been quite satis-
factory if there had been more of the energico.
The adagio was exquisite. Others might read it
differently, but this was a true, legitimate reading,
full of expression and tenderness, perfectly played,
and to be judged as a beautiful individual in-
terpretation. Like the Max Bruche allegro,
that which opens the Mendelssohn Concerto had
everything except molto appassionata to commend
it. The andante lacked shading, and was rather
cold. Miss Hall’s playing gained so much as the
evening went on, that it seems more than pro-
bable this movement might have been very much
more impressive if it had been played later. The
artist appeared to distinctly better effect in the
second part of the programme. The various items
on the list did not include any which enabled the
fragile little lady’s audience to estimate whether
she possesses any great gift or acquirement of
technique. They were all within the capacity of
any violinist who claims to be called an artist. Of
the two concertos the Max Bruche furnishes the
more severe test, but both are in the repertoire of
most competen t soloists. It is to Miss Hall’s credit,
and helps to define her artistic level, that she
relied for effect in her first recital upon interpre-
tation, and not on what is called virtuosity. But
her powers in that direction may be taken for
granted, since she has achieved acknowledged
success, amongst other things in the Ernst Con-
certo, which is so seldom heard, less on account of
its musical value than on account of its tremen-
dous difficulty. Miss Lonie Basche plays with
very great charm and sincerity, and wears a very
pretty frock.
ifc * * *
Society responded well to the call of
Albani at Sydney Town Hall on Monday night.
It was a readily-satisfied gathering, and the
Canadian singer of the past, with reminiscences of
royalty to support her, frisked about the platform
in her skittish little way to her heart’s content,
and was liberally rewarded with flowers and
encores on account of what she has been. It is
hard sometimes to enthuse over the musical
memories of Our mothers, and that is how we feel
in regard to Albani. Of her once glorious voice
there remains but a residue, and it is rather a
painful struggle for her to, produce it. She is,
however, respectably supported, vocally and in-
strumentally. Contralto Mildred Jones has capa-
cious and resonant lower notes, William Green is
a lusty tenor, Haydn Wood is a fiddler of a mild
Paganinian order, and our own Myrtle Meggy is
a facile and determined pianist. The last was
listened to with great interest. She has not
belied the hopfes of those who said she would do
good work.
** * *
The community is truly grateful that
Carreno is coming back to Sydney to give
three more recitals. They are to take place on
Wednesday (26th), the afternoon of next day. and
the evening of Saturday (29th). As a player who
covers the whole acreage of piano composition,
Carreno has never had her equal in Australia.
That is the verdict of those who claim to be ex-
pert judges, as well as of the public generally.
Carreno can make anyone like any piece of music,
whether it be a Beethoven Sonata or a Liszt
Rhapsodie. • Her skill is simply magical. She
promises to give us three great concerts, with
Benno, her manager, at a second piano.
** * *
“ Romeo and Juliet ” —“ Music by Chas.
Gounod, to the book of the immortal William Shak-
speare,” as the advertisement rather quaintly puts
it, as if it were a modern musical comedy, and the
dignity of the “authors” had to be acknowledged
—was staged by the Musgrove Grand Opera Co.,
at Sydney Royal, on Saturday. The opera falls
very closely within the lines of the Immortal
Bill’s specifications. Romeo makes love bravura ;
Juliet responds coloratura; then everybody is
killed. There are probably morals in the
story. Romeo was a roaming sort of lover,
and was just as prepared to wade through
blood for another girl before he met Juliet,
if that other girl had been such a forward
minx as Juliet was. The opera takes no notice of
the morals, but provides a very full supply of
shakes and trills, and other musical passementerie,
and the result is picturesque. Few composers
can put the spangles on a theme as artfully as
Gounod.
* * *
Mr. Musgrove’s artists gain in public favor
as their season progresses. “ Romeo and Juliet ”
on Saturday was in most respects a satisfying
performance. Here and there the heel of the
Teuton pressed heavily on the prostrate English
language, but that was a detail lost sight of in a
general high standard of merit. Miss Mary
Stoller, as Juliet, had the slight, girlish figure
for the part, and her voice was equal to the
music, though it was a little hard and un-
sympathetic. Richard Oeser had the gallant
bearing for Romeo, and his voice, too, was
satisfactory though not brilliant. Fritz Rupp
and Hans Mohwinkel sang well; and Emil
Greder gave distinction to the small part of the
Friar. Greder is, all round, the best artist of the
company. Summed up, the presentation of
“Romeo and Juliet ” satisfied the eye, and did
not offend it with a 20-stone Romeo, or an
ancient mass of avoirdupois trying to be Juliet;
and the ear was well enough pleased.
To-night “ The Flying Dutchman ” —a
simple little excursion into gloom, suggesting a
visit to the coal cellar on a winter night, which
Wagner ran off in one of his less involved
paroxysms—-will be staged. It should suit this
co., which is strongest in the basso section. The
last production in Sydney, with Pringle in the
name part, is still a satisfactory artistic memory.
* * *
“ The Spring Chicken ” at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney, is getting bigger houses than it deserves,
which is probably why it is getting them. A
popular delight of the moment is to guess what
expurgated naughtinesses came in at particular
points, when the Chicken was a French frivol,
and the guessing is fairly easy ; for the average
human has a fine capacity for guessing what
wickedness other people would be capable of in a
given set of circumstances.
Hi Hi Hi Hi
“The Squatter’s Daughter,” which still
hangs out its colored poster and its garish lamp at
Sydney Cri., has entered on yet another week of
the strenuous life that is led on the up-country
station of melodrama. The sheep still shed their
wool, the hero his gorgeous platitudes, and the
young person, who is a wife “in the sight of
Heaven,” her angry tears, to a running fusillade of
firearms. High morality, indiscriminate carnage,
and the reek of black powder dominate the
atmosphere.
** * *
Everyone knows the story of the “Colleen
Bawn,” as Dion Boucicault’s play has it: the
Irish aristocrat who has married a peasant girl
whom he dare not present to his mother; the
mother’s anguished efforts to get him to marry
his heiress cousin, and so save the ancestral home
from being sold up; the attempted murder of
the peasant wife by a hunchback foster-brother of
the aristocrat ; and the reunion of the latter with
the girl of his heart who has the brogue. The
real story, as it was enacted in real life in Ireland
less than eighty years ago, held two tragedies—
the murder of the pretty peasant wife, Colleen
Bawn, and the subsequent hanging of her hus-
band. But no audience in Australia would
tolerate the (stage) murder of the Colleen Bawn,
and as far as this writer knows, there hasn’t been
a hanging on the Sydney stage since 1886, when
Newton Griffiths was suspended by the neck at
the Gaiety and afterwards went round, mad, with
the rope in his pocket.
* * » •
Charles Holloway’s dramatic co. is playing
“The Colleen Bawn” to good houses at Sydney
Palace. Pretty little Beatrice makes a cuddle-
some Colleen, but her tongue rebels at the brogue.
The boy of the cast is John P. O’Neill, as Myles-
na-Coppaleen. His brogue, his songs, his sly-dog
humor, his humorous raggedness and artfulness
keep the audience amused all the evening.
Robert Inman and Godfrey Cass, as Hardress
Cregan and Kyrle Daly, act as gentlemen would
act under the circumstances in which it pleased
Fate and the light on Muekross Head to
call them. Mr. Jefferson Taite, as a pettifogging
attorney, pettifogs with success, though how an
astute attorney can continue to desire to marry a
lady who replies to his matrimonial proposals
with such outcries as “ Impudent Hound,” only a
dramatist knows. James West, as Danny Mann,
the hunchback, deserves mention next to the
O’Neill’s thirsty character. Hesford’s Father
Tom is a lovable old cleric, and Misses Rosa
Conroy and Mabel Russell are hereby congratu-
lated on their truly pretty playing of Mrs.
Cregan and Ann Shute. Next Saturday the
co. will revive what it calls the best play
in its category—“ Two Little Vagabonds”—in-
troducing the small “h’’-less vagabond with the
“ corf.”
** * *
West’s Pictures at Sydney Lyceum Hall
are enriched by a lot of photographs taken when
the Canadian, S’African, and Australasian
Premiers paid a visit to Portsmouth. To do the
visitors honor, the Admiral planned a fine, sham
piece of naval display, showing battle, murder,
and the extinction of life. Torpedoes, bluejackets,
and Dreadnoughts rather lend themselves to
dramatic effects.
** # *
Carlton, a new streak of humor, has
brightened the Sydney Tivoli bill since Saturday.
With a cheerful patter-patter, this leanest man of
the moment bustles through a programme of not
very difficult card-tricks ; but he doesn’t give his
audience time to reflect upon the quality of that
part of his show. He is a cheerful mummer, who
gets on good terms with his people, and that
means a popular success. Otherwise, the Tivoli
is offering a good and fairly-varied bill.
Hi Hi *
Melbourne’s new Biiou Theatre —entirely
new as regards the interior fittings—opened its
doors on Saturday, notwithstanding a prohibition
order from the local Board of Health. The cause
of this official unpleasantness was not obvious to
the audience. The Bijou stands where it did, the
entrances and exits remain as before, plus im-
provements, which had presumably been sanc-
tioned by the authorities who made trouble at the
eleventh hour, and the auditorium is sweet and
clean and beautiful. Lined with mirrors on the
ground floor and d.c., the house strikes one as
offering less opportunity for the aggregation of
dirt, dust, and insect life than any of the larger
Melbourne theatres. The effect is gladsome.
Even when the lights are lowered, and the in-
augural bellowdrama demands notice, the sur-
rounding brightness can be felt.
* » * *
The management of Messrs. Sullivan,
Harriss and Woods, with Mr. Tittell Brune
figuring as lessee, is also new to Melbourne. lo
some extent, the bellowdrama, “For Her Child-
ren’s Sake,’-’ is new likewise. It was compiled by
the author of “The Fatal Wedding,” and, in its
infantile interest, the present shocker compares
favorably with its forerunner. A pore sick
mother has two precocious kiddies, who
hold a meeting of youngsters at the house
of their grandfather, a dreary old vicar.
The reverend parent has driven his daughter
from home by forbidding her to marry her
•much-maligned young man. She doesn’t marry
him. She goes abroad and marries two other
fellows, one of whom —the father of her two
children aforesaid—breaks his neck during a 10
years’ interval between the first and second acts.
He dies of doing his duty as a trapezist m a
circus. Subsequently the widow marries the boss
of the circus, a violent autocrat who compels Ins
wife to go riding in the arena under threat of
converting her offspring into acrobats if she
shirks the contract. Poor mother is understood


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
insurance society,
PITT AND KING *STKEETS* SYDNEY*
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Oharoed. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
ASTHMA CAN BE CURED.
A Noted Physician will Peove this to
SUFFEKEKS IN AUSTRALASIA.
The astonishing statement that asthma can be
cured, coming from so well-known authority as
Dr. Rudolph Schiffmann, will be of interest to
asthma sufferers. The experience of most
asthmatics has been that little, if any, relief has
been afforded them by the methods heretofore
employed ; and, in fact, the disease has up to now
been regarded as incurable. This noted physician
has, however, after a lifelong study of asthma and
kindred diseases, discovered a remedy which not
only instantly relieves the severest cases of
asthma and bronchitis, but has actually cured
thousands whose cases had been pronounced in-
curable. SocompleteisDr.Schiffmann’s confidence
in his remedy that he requests this paper to
announce that he offers to send a liberal sample
package of “Schiffmann’s Asthma Cure ” free of
charge to all persons sending him their name and
address, plainly written on a post-card, within the
next four days.
He believes that an actual test will be the most
convincing, and in fact the only way to overcome'
the natural prejudice of thousands of asthmatics
who have heretofore sought relief in vain.
Although most chemists in Australasia have sold
his Asthma Cure ever since it was introduced to
the public, still the Doctor fears there are some
persons who have never heard of it, and it is with
a view to reaching these that he makes this
liberal offer.
An opportunity to test, without costs, a remedy
so celebrated and promising so much certainly
should be eagerly grasped by every sufferer.
Address Dr. R. Schiffmann’s Depot, Nos. 5
and 7 Barrack-street, Sydney.*
to get shockingly damaged by a fall from her
gee-gee, but her husband doesn’t live to
gloat over her injuries. Her infant son
shoots step-father with a pea-rifle, and the demise
of the tyrant leaves her at liberty to marry
the faithful lover of 10 years ago. The idea of a
twice-widowed heroine arriving at connubial hap-
piness, through the murderous agency of her
darling cheeild, is probably quite new. All the
other ideas in “For Her Children’s Sake” are
as old as “The Fatal Wedding,” i.e. , both
dramas have an amazing foolishness which differs
essentially from that of “ The Worst Woman in
London,” and similar Andersonian productions.
On Saturday, the somewhat brilliant success of
the kiddy element in the show was counteracted
by the dull superfluity of talk, which lasted until
11.40 p.m. Forty-five minutes of desultory dia-
logue could have been spared from the four acts.
When the performance is divested of its padding,
and the adult players have learned to moderate
their tones and subdue their tempestuous style,
the result will be n.t.b.
* * * *
E. B. Russell and vociferous Alf Booth-
man were the principal offenders on Saturday.
Charles Blake and Johnson Weir did fairly well,
and Miss Helen Burdette, although she over-
acted all the time, more or less, showed a lot of
versatility and emotional power as the harassed
young woman. Miss Helen Fergus played a
genial German character part with exceptional
naturalness, and the children, one and all, were
excellent. The dancing schools of Melbourne,
founded long ago by Mrs. Green and the Misses
Hyams, have proved wonderful nurseries for stage
talent.
** * *
“The Squaw Man,” revived at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) on Saturday, has more
variety of action than one finds in any ordinary
melodrama, where a dejected father hugs his first-
born to his manly breast. There are moments in
every act save the first when truth seems stranger
than fiction, but these are not so numerous as the
moments when fiction seems less convincing than
truth. And, unfortunately, none of the incidents
which appeal to a journalist’s highest moral feel-
ings are quite so impressive as the lurid, sinful
drunk of Cash Hawkins. The characters im me-
diately connected with the Love and Marriage
question cannot get a good grip of the audience’s
sympathy. Diana, at the outset, is evidently dis-
posed to lead the good young man astray, and,
seeing that good young men are scarce, Diana’s
allurements are reprehensible. He (the virtuous
James) stoops to an alliance that no sincerely
White Australian canapproveof. His wife, Nat-U-
Rich, has a tender, loving heart, but she is only a
squaw—“just squaw”—consequently her suicide
goes for very little. The same may be said of her
father’s silent grief. The old Chief is a noble
savage and a loyal father-in-law to the hero, but
the people of this Christian country have no tears
to spare for a war-painted gentleman m a blanket
who erects a fence of feathers around the back of
his head. Some changes in the cast of “ The
Squaw Man,” since last year, are of less import-
ance than a noticeable improvement in the acting
of Miss Humphrey. That is to say, her acting is
not so theatrical as before, and her beauty seems
less self-conscious. Why are Les Belles Ameri-
caines so obtrusively charming as a rule ?
** * *
With an eagerness that borders on anxiety,
Melbourne is waiting for “The Blue Moon ” to
rise at the Princess’s next Saturday (22nd). A
new musical comedy is a thrilling event in
stage-struck circles, even when it means another
repetition of an old, familiar co. “The Blue
Moon” will introduce a new company of the
latest possible construction. Ten principal names
are advertised, and only two of them —Celia
Ghiloni and P. Bathurst—-are to memory dear.
And none of them, seemingly, was imported
from outside of Australasia, the principal soprano
being Miss Amy Murphy, late of Maoriland. It
is a notable sign of the times that J. C. William-
son is about to produce a new musical piece under
conditions which have happened only once in a
Blue Moon.
** * *
For 12 nights only Bland Holt will pro-
vide his Melbourne Royal public with a revival
of the lively drama of the Bad Blind Man and
the Simple Millionaire who abide “In London
Town.” The Blind Man (Styan) differs from
most members of his melodrama class in not being
an object for sympathy. He’s the wickedest old
citizen that ever felt his way with a walking
stick. He bullies the hapless maiden whom he
has adopted for his daughter, and he bangs his
stick against the crutch of a gentle lame boy.
He’s a terror to the virtuous, is this afflicted evil-
doer, until he gets himself knocked down a steep
flight of garret stairs by a rebellious subject,
and the sound of his falling body is the
last that is heard of him. The millionaire,
on the other hand, is an amiable, long-
suffering idiot. In the first act he accepts
the Blind Man’s daughter as his own flesh and
blood, and seats her in the lap of luxury where
the other girl ought to be. The misunderstanding
re the daughters is instigated by a shiny-hatted
villain (Albert Norman) for matrimonial purposes
or something, but his base designs are thwarted
by Bland Holt, the comic hero of this amazing
tale. As a matter of fact, Bland removes the
polished villain by pushing him off a house-top.
It is a lawless way of bringing things to a happy
conclusion, yet it passes without comment from
the police. Some five-and-twenty characters and
ten scenes are employed in the production of
“In London Town.” Maxwell (as the guileless
millionaire), Miss Ross, Styan, Albert Norman
and Miss Ireland (the bogus daughter) undertake
the heavy parts, whilst Bland and Mrs. Holt,
Brown, and several other people supply the rorty
Cockney relief, which helps considerably to make
the success of an unreasonable drama. The plot
is the weakest part of the entertainment.
** # #
“ 0.K.” writes:—
Prior to the re-appearance of “ Mother Goose ” last week,
it was reported in Melbourne that the panto companj’ had
lost about half-a-dozen of the original performers, includ-
ing Phydora. There were only three changes in the cast—
Mabelle Morgan for Florence Young, Shortland for Sam
Gale, and Florence Quinn for Celia Ghiloni. Pressy
Preston and Olive Morrell are understood to be leaving
shortly, but the retirement of Miss Morrell is not likely
to weaken the show, anyhow. As a matter of fact, it
hasn’t been weakened to an appreciable degree thus far.
The new fairy, who has little to do, is a very passable
substitute for Miss Ghiloni, whilst Mabelle Morgan, in
the principal boy part, now reveals a fresh young singing
voice, with some sweet top-notes, in addition to
a tall figure, which looks finer than before, though
not so large. Young man Shortland, too, is a
good substitute for his predecessor. “ Mother
Goose” promises to keep its popularity throughout
a six months’ tour. Phydora will stay with it all the
time, and if there ever was much fault to find with
that luck-bringing comedian, the reasons are no longer
apparent. He and Harry Shine have bettered what they
did at first, singly or together. Their grotesque duet-
singing in the airship is a finished work of harmony. It
sounds accidental—the harmony—but it happens every
night, as the result of half a year’s practice. Even a
panto, improves with age, if the mummers regard it
seriously, and when panto, is their special line of business
they take it as seriously as an amateur Hamlet takes his
Immortal Bard.
** * *
Town Hall concerts are “ off” just nowin
T. Bent’s metropolis ; also the “ Living Ireland ”
pictures will pass away from the Athenaeum Hall
in a day or two. A coon-songstress, whose lightest
step sounds like a brick falling on a kerosene-tin,
is the latest arrival at the Opera House ; and a
Grand Poster Carnival will transpire at the
Glaciarium on Wednesday of next week.
** * *
Zangwill’s “Mary Ann,” at Adelaide
Royal, proved to be like all his books, varying
quickly from real art to the foolishly farcical.
There was a soda-water syphon that stood and
gazed at the audience for two acts. It was quite
certain to squirt somebody; why didn’t it begin ?
As things turned out, it was waiting for a parson,
and, when he came on the scene, it squirted him
in a way that made up for lost time. Ten
minutes could with advantage be cut out of each
of the last two acts. Also Zangwill never can, or
could, resist a play on words. But the piece may
be forgiven, because it affords Miss Tittellßrune
a chance to do her very best work outside
of “ Sunday.” The co. is ending its season with
revivals: Leah of the cabbage farm, and Dorothy
of the temper that was warm enough even for
Queen Elizabeth. There is a cheerful, hard-
working humorist named Denis Carney at the
Tivoli; the Hippodrome has sunk from the horse-
drama to “East Lynne’’and the like; and the
“ All Blacks ” crowd has been giving its strictly-
moral family fiddling entertainment at the Town
Hall. Mrs. Brough has been in Adelaide during
the week ; but, alas! only on business, and that
not stage-business.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Hamer”: A horse went mad in a subdued township
in Victoria recently, and created more excitement than
the average hamlet generally experiences in a generation.
A mad horse is about as exciting a calamity as can arrive,
barring perhaps an earthquake or a drunken Jap. In
India, where the mad horse is fairly common, the civilised
native prince loves to set him to light a tiger in a circus.
Mostly the “ patient, plodding stead ” wins the battle,
and that is a fair criterion of the particular Sheol he is
capable of creating when he starts to eat a small town on
a summer afternoon.
“ Hiphen Alfred Sutro’s new play, “John Glayde’s
Honor,” is, I believe, shortly to be transplanted to Aus-
tralia. I have seen it here—George Alexander up. It is
many furlongs behind his “Walls of Jericho,” but still is
distances in front of the usual problem play. John
Glayde is an American by nationality, and by persuasion
a millionaire. In making his money, he neglects his
wife. She, being an American, naturally goes to Paris,
where she has an affaire with an artist. John Glayde
arrives suddenly, sees how the land lies, and makes
remarks of a more or less personal nature. His wife,
fearing a sticky death for her lover at the hands of her
husband, puts her arms round his (the husband’s) neck,
and pulls his leg (it isn’t a contortionist turn). She
swears there is nothing in the rodent he has sniffed, that
she loves him only, and will never, never look at anyone
else, &c., and that she only wants to go out and
see if the trams are still running, and will return
in a few minutes for ever and ever, amen.
John, who, for a Yankee bullionist that scalps the
’Merican public for its last dollar, seems to be a simple
sorter soul, gives her a torrid kiss and his blessing, and
lets her depart. As the most ingenuous debutante in the
ten-and-sixpenny stalls has already foreseen, she goes
straight to where her lover is waiting with a fleet motor-
car to convey her to the place where the husbands cease
from troubling and the millionaires are at rest.
Before they can get started, however, John arrives,
having been made wise by his sleuth-hound secretary.
He, as an interested party, has quite a deal to say on the
subject. Had it been melodrama, he would have shot
the villain, his wife and himself. As it is refined drama,
he merely wishes the villain luck, and tells him to keep
the goods, which cannot be returned on appro., or words
to that effect. Our old friend Henrietta Watson figures
prominently in the cast.
“ Snell ” : “ The Virginian ” failed to catch on in Mel-
bourne, where “The Squaw Man” was a big success.
This is not surprising, for the latter, despite its faults
and its slap-dash blending of the Family Herald with
“Deadwood Dick,” had a coherent story, and was a fairly
good and craftsmanlike drama of its kind, whereas “ The
Virginian ” is a mere string of incidents, and remains
quite as chaotic as the jumble novel from which it was
constructed. The love affairs of the Virginian and the
school-marm from Vermont don’t get into grips till the
last act, and the whole show is lingering, disjointed, and
unsatisfactory. All this troubles the reader of the novel,
too. By the way, the story of the mixed babies was told
in Australia of a Gippsland party long before the
American took it up ; and the yarn of Emily the hen, the
success of which, the author declares, almost induced
him to turn comic writer, is merely one of the commonest
comic properties which earlier and better humorists have
used again and again.
“ The Spring 1 Chicken ” gives indication that in its
original French it was something broader and more
precipitous than it is now. The action of the typical
Palais Royal farce —and “ The Spring Chicken ” is just a
Palais Royal farce bowdlerised and set to music—revolves
with damnable iteration around the administering, at
awkward moments, of “Elixirs of Life” or “Buckup
Drops ”to the various members of the cast. Indiscrimi-
nate hocussing, taken in conjunction with a night scene,
during which all hands burst in and out of each other’s
bedrooms in different stages of unclothedness, gives scope
for some humor—of a kind. The spectacle of the
p.yjamaed hero speeding across the bedroom furniture a
short length ahead of the stout and despicable husband
in a low-comedy nightshirt, with the remainder of the
company a lap or so behind, is one a Palais Royal audi-
ence never tires of. Only a faint flavor of all this is left
in “ The Spring Chicken.” The hocussing is a mere affair
of homoeopathy, so to speak ; and certainly in the play’s
country of origin that studio scene was not played in a
studio.
The Smellful Fish party seems to be influenced by
Audrey’s habit, in “ As You Like It,” of thanking the
gods she is foul.
“ Puzzled ” : Does “ Clarence M. Brune’s ” middle initia
stand for Matilda, allee same Tittell ?
Britain’s tender and trucklesome regard for the feelings
of its Brown Ally has broken out again. The Lord
Chamberlain, a few weeks ago, vetoed Gilbert and
Sullivan’s opera, “ The Mikado,” on the ground of its
“ buffoonery in certain parts,” as though the ornate joke
were not consistently extravagant throughout. “The
Mikado ”is 22 years old. Its “ buffoonery ” was not less of
a libel on the Government of Japan in i. 885 than it is to-
day, but in ’B5 the libel didn’t matter. The Brown Man
was then merely the monkey that scratched its head
whilst John Bull played the organ. Now we have the
monkey turning the organ handle whilst J.B. scratches
his head. Therefore, further performances of “ The
Mikado ” are prohibited in Britain, which will probably
be the cue for a glorious revival of the work in
America. The dishonesty of the Lord Chamberlain’s
statement of his reason for suppressing the opera was
lately emphasised by a supplementary order forbidding
any performance of any of the music by regimental bands
or on ships of war. W. S. Gilbert, in a scornful letter to
the London Daily Telegraph, remarks that there can’t
have been any objectionable buffooning in Sullivan’s
music. Music doesn’t scoff at anybody. But Gilbert had
better lie low these times, and not draw attention to
himself. If the Japs demand his arrest for writing “ The
Mikado,” the new and humble Bull will assuredly run
him in, even if he has to do it under a dubious charge of
disorderly conduct and tearin’ the Jap emperor’s uniform.
“Hamer”: The Sunday Sun published last week a
photo, of “0. M. Berkeley, the new English actor who
will appear with the Human Hearts Co.” Isn’t this
carrying the “ English ” business too far? Berkeley has
been known, playing under that name too, for years in
Australia, and, to my best belief, he is an Australian by
birth. Some day an Australian audience, with a patriotic
desire to see what its own actors can do, will turn round
and ask the people who bring these “ English companies ”
to Australian theatres for an Australian show. And then
the managements, as they confess that all the people except
the stiff leading lady and the disappointing leading man
are native-born Australians, will look surprisingly small.
From an athletic point of view, the most important
artist with Musgrove’s grand opera co. is Rufus Ferguson,
who is in the chorus, and also does small parts. Rufus is
indeed versatile. He is an ex-champion amateur track
and cross-country ped, cyclist and gymnast; he wore a kilt
with the Vic. Scotty regiment, and has won prizes at
rifle shooting and at aquatic carnivals. On the all-round
ticket, Ferguson takes a lot of beating, especially with
his sweet baritone thrown in.
“G. Elburg”: I think that the title of Zangwill’s play
should be “Merely Mary’s Million.” Even the hero’s
respect for the girl whose soul struggles with beetles
in the kitchen dates only from the moment when
he becomes aware of her dazzling legacy. He is little
better than the fawning hash-house lady. Just previous
to the arrival of the news, he curtly orders the girl-
drudge to put a shine on his shoes, but when, as the
possessor of a pile, Mary Ann commences to brush his
coat, he says, in a shocked voice, “You mustn’t do that
now! ” The transformation, inside six years, of an
illiterate slavey, with a rustic accent that would turn the
edge of an axe, into a polished society Miss with musical
accomplishments, is too tough for any digestion. Alto-
together, “ Merely, etc.” is mostly tripe, but as the
average audience relishes tripe, and always asks for more
tripe, I suppose tripe will continue to loom largely on the
theatre bill of fare.
“K.” : Albani’s skittish mode of exit from the platform is
a truly amazing reminiscence of the singer’s bygone youth-
fulness. History records that the Albani frisk set her
Australian audiences laughing, nine years ago, when she
still had a little of her old voice left. This time the frisk
is pathetic—painful rather than funnj'. Seemingly the
matured matron has no other way of quitting the stage.
She runs off as though she had sportively flung a ball of
wool at the audience and were pretending to be afraid of
a return throw. The act of giddy girlishness is performed
even under the most inappropriate conditions. If
Albani has just completed an “Ave Maria,” she scuttles
away from public view as gaily as she flees from “ Within
a Mile of Edinboro’ Toon,” or “ Oomin’ Through the
Rye.” It seems unkind to allude to the airs and graces
of Albani in her advanced autumnal days, but a public
that never knew her when she was a Queen of Song, can
nowadays hear and see nothing in her save a handsomely-
dressed matron who makes a great to-do about a warble
that has lost its beauty. One must smile, or sneer, or
feel sorry for the lady, so it is best to shut one’s eyes and
mourn for the departed Voice. Some of the listeners
at the first of Albani’s concerts in Melbourne, last week,
didn’t need to shut their eyes. They were invitees from
the local Blind Asylum.
“Snell”: I see a London manager has been disputing
the right of theatre-goers to hiss performers or per-
formances that displease them. Defendant contended
that the right to applaud implied the right to hiss, but
the manager would not have it, and the person who made
the goose noise was fined. In Australia you never hear
the faintest hissing in a theatre in our time ; but there
was a period when things were otherwise. And lam far
from sure that managers are wise in rigorously repressing
the hiss. If people are displeased with an important item
in a performance, they sit it out with painful patience,
then go home and warn their friends to keep away, and
consistently remain away themselves for the balance of
the season. The manager isn’t certain what it is that has
emptied his house, and very often he would be glad to
know. And it would pay him to know, whether he was
glad or otherwise.
Even if “ Modern Milo ” Montague really rode through
Coventry 7 in her stage lack of costume (as alleged in the
yarn referred to in a recent Bulletin), she was not the
first to imitate Lady Godiva in the old town. One of the
letters of William Godwin, father of Shelley’s second wife,
mentions “ Coventry Fair, with a procession of all the
trades, with a female representative of Lady Godiva at
their head, dressed in a close dress to represent naked-
ness.” This was in 1797.
“ Rhaupo ” : The entertainers who periodically inflict
thousands of feet of Hograph pictures and middle-aged
female balladists on N.S.W. provincial towns are striking
opposition from the colored curse. Two of Bruce Smith’s
proteges, who formerly sold scented soap and cheap
jewellery to cockies’ wives, ran a flicker horror in Dungog
over show week. Hordes of these frowsy bundle-humper s,
friends of the showmen, cast dodgers and handbills
around the town and show ground ; two greasy brothers
took cash and tickets, while another worked the sight
destroying agony and actually lectured on the views.
The desolation at Poverty Point will be complete when a
troupe of Chinkies stage “ East Lynne ” at the bush
School of Arts, or a Dago Comedy Co. after a successful
season at Bungville, “ scales” the publican and printer.
“Flinderino ”: “.Let me say a word in favor of musi-
cal (?) competitions. It is the custom for the Melbourne
music-shops to give a donation to the prize funds of these
competitions, and in return for this donation the music-
shop people are allowed the privilege of selecting the set
songs and goanna items. Now, Messrs. Rail and Tando,
of Oollins-street, have in stock 25 doz. copies of “Good
Night, Queen Anne, Good Night,” which they bought
cheap at a sale in London 20 years ago ; they have had
them stowed away on the top shelf ever since. A cheque
for the prize fund is sent along to the officials of the
North-West-by-East Melbourne competitions, and “ Good
Night, Queen Anne, Good Night,” is chosen for the bar-
rowtone solo. Messrs. Rail and Tando are the only people
who have, this song in stock, so the competitors must buy
their copies there, and pay 2s. a piece for music not worth
2d. In this way the music shops are able to profitably
dispose of what would otherwise be dead and useless
lumber, and they don’t thereby make the competitions
any worse than they naturally are.
Maoriland’s most amazing’ showmanyis Felix Tanner,
whose endeavors in the cause of quaint uselessness have
l>een highly successful. Felix first burst into.popularity
as a public entertainer at Waihi during the gold boom.
A miner looked into the whare of Felix, gave a cold
shudder, and cut the rope by which Felix was hanging to
the tie-beam. Felix opened his eyes and smiled. He was
just experimenting, he said. After that he used to hang
himself more regularly, with the same success, and
before payable audiences of miners. To demonstrate that
his stomach was as weird an article as his neck, Felix
suddenly refused all food. He persisted in this refusal for
a month, after which he was satisfied that a man was
much better without tucker. He has put up a long
series of fasts since then. Six years ago Tanner
threatened to go round the world in a sort of barrel, and
immediately produced a. monstrosity funnier than
the Pah’f’l. After he had collected several shillings from
people who came to view and retired to laugh,
he went to sea, intending to return to Maoriland in about
16 years via the Arctic Ocean. Felix was away nearly a
whole day, but his boat remained longer. Subsequent
barrels were built and swamped, Felix undergoing show
fasts to obtain the lucre for each successive craft. A
fortnight ago Felix went on a coastal voyage in
the latest barrel, with five companions and three days’
tucker. Possibly Tanner concluded that his mates we: e
professional fasters too. Anyhow, Tanner and his Ark
were seven days on the trip, and the marvel is that they
weren’t longer. Maoriland is now waiting to see Felix
Sixpence break out in a fresh place. He never fails to
do that.
In a poor quarter of Hobart stands a queer-looking
building, time-worn and tottering. A stranger, gazing
thoughtfully at the ancient structure and the huge
wooden props which prevent its collapse, mistook it for a
factory, and expressed surprise that the authorities
allowed it to remain standing. When told that the build-
ing was the Hobart Theatre Royal, he sank down on the
footpath, and was carried, gibbering, to the nearest pub,
where they saved his reason with brandy. No one seems
to know exactly when this theatre was built, but a close
inspection of the original structure—now thickly covered
with patches of wood, iron, tin, etc.—reveals huge blocks
of rough-hewn masonry, which would suggest a con-
nection with the Stone Age. The interior is fearfully and
wonderfully designed, so as to utilise every square inch of
space. Years ago Bland Holt staged one of his mammoth
dramas at this place, but the narrow stage ruined the
piece and nearly killed the hero. The scene depicted a
prison, into which the hero had been cast by the villain.
The lights were turned down, and while you counted
three the bright morning changed to the darkest hour
of night. The hero then escaped, rushed on the stage
through the gloom, yelled “Yah ! I’m free !” and fell
headlong into the stalls. It is said this caused Bland H.
to swear never to stage another piece at Hobart without
taking measurements of the drama to see how it and the
stage would fit.
The Poverty Pointer in Melbourne was asked if they
had had a good audience at Traralgon while on tour.
“ Yes,” he said, “ it was excellent, what there was of it.
He asked me out to have a drink after the show.”
Pictorial post-cards bearing the inscription “ Greetings
from Australia,” and the portraits of Gertie Millar. Marie
Studholme, and Zena Dare, are now filling the windows
of Sydney stationers’ shops. This latest phase of the im-
porting mania is calculated to make the recipients of the
cards at the other end of the world think that Australia
doesn’t possess three good-looking girls in its total
female population of two millions or thereabouts. Why
put a group of English actresses on what purports to be
an Australian post-card ?
“Falk”: “Why Valkyrie for Walkiire”? (B. 23/5/’07.)
Because Valkyrie is a common English word, in use before
Wagner was born, and stands for thelady whom Germans
call a “ Walkiire.” Our knowledge of her was got from
the Icelandic, and the name, of course, also. And it
would be more appropriate than the High Dutch form,
even if it couldn’t claim priority ; for never a bit of High
Dutch are we (non nobis, Domine !), but a good deal of
Scandinavian. So for general purposes we say “ Valkyrie,”
and keep the German form for use when there may be
doubt as to whether it’s the Wagnerian or some other
version of the story that we are talking of. Anyhow, it’s
a sinful thing to urge the Australian to curl his tongue
round a German ii, when there is any fair way out of it.
and “ Valkeerer ” might well be unintelligible to both
parties.
Australia has one bank, anyhow, to which
Australia is home and the rest of the world isn’t.
In the official shareholders’ list of the Bank of
Adelaide, when a shareholder doesn’t live in
Australia he is simply described as of “Parts
beyond the Seas.”
The cheerful manner in which Abo. writers
hand round the statement “You’re Another” is,
no doubt, because they observe their snakes and
vanishing frogs under different, if not indifferent,
conditions. They should remember that the
ideal for all mental effort is acquired by the aid
of the right allowance of D.C.L. Whisky, the
beverage of the brainy, and an infallible cure fcr
snakebite.*
Things must be pretty bad in the cow-
yards when such an old crusted Conservative
print as the Warrnambool Standard, about the
leading paper in the Victorian Western District,
says the Presbyterian parson was right, and the
child-labor practice “is assuming proportions
that ought to be instantly checked.” In fact,
almost everybody is beginning to say that the
cheap child-slave must be taken out of the cow-
yard. There are not quite so many yet who say
that the child-slave would probably never have
been thrown into the cowyard if rents and free-
holds had not been run up so outrageously. Now
the cow-raiser has got into the child-slave habit,
and it will take a rigid law to break him of it.
And the chances are that in the process he will
often get broken himself, with the law pushing
him one way and the landlord pulling him the
other. So the landlord will have to be attended
to as well as the child-slave.
THE MIKADO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As a sop to Japan, the British Lord Chamberlain has
withdrawn his official license for stage performances of
“ The Mikado,” and has forbidden the music of the opera
to British military and naval bands.
O, Lord Chamberlain,
Must we mourn in vain
Vanished friends who sang before us—
Katisha, Pooh Bah and chorus?
Can’t they sing again?
0, Lord Chamberlain !
“ Mighty is Japan,”
Cries the Englishman.
People now are changing places ;
We must cringe to colored races.
Great is Hindustan !
Mighty is Japan 1
Truckle to the Chow,
He’s a boshter now,
Though his skin be dry and yellow,
He’s a very splendid fellow,
This we must allow.
Truckle to the Chow !
Europe’s day is done,
Hail the Rising Sun !
Yellow, Black, and Brown united,
Overrule the Whites affrighted.
Hail the Three in One !
Europe's day is done.
O.K.


DEAFNESS, HEAD-NOISES,
and all other Aural diseases permanently cured at your
own home by pure natural Aural Kinetics. No medicine
no Electricity, and no Eardrums, but nature’s own treat-
ment, safe and effective, endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Read the following statement
The Hon. Joseph Blumenthal (Tax-Commissioner)
writes “I am pleased in being able to inform you that
my wife is entirely cured of her deafness and head-noises
from which she has been a most pitiful sufferer for years!
Since using your treatment she has been examined by
the highest medical authorities, and they all agree that
she is permanently cured. We feel very grateful to you
and can hardly express it in writing. Before using your
‘ EAROSCOPE’we had already given up all hope of her
ever being cured, and concluded that deafness was
entirely incurable.”
This is only one of the many grateful letters we are
continually receiving from our successfully cured
patients. All sufferers and their friends are cordially
invited to call and inspect or write for particulars, which
will be posted FREE. Address—
THE “EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt Sc., Sydney, N.S.W.
Nothing succeeds like success, and Angier’s
Emulsion is eminently successful in curing coughs
and lung affections. One day's trial will convince
you of its soothing, cough-allaying, lung-healing
powers. Send 4d. postage for a free sample
bottle. The Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack-
street, Sydney.*
SOCIETY
A Melbournite (they are very tired of the
police force in Melbourne, and have lost all
respect for it) writes
The Melbourne detectives have had heaps of assistance
from outsiders in their efforts to unearth the murderer
of diamond-dealer Bauer. For days they were busy
tracking: down a story about a man who got into a cab
somewhere near Modern Chambers at something about
the tune of the tragedy. Till they have caught that man
they will make no attempt to run down the people who
were seen getting into trams at the same time and place.
The people who went by on foot will be dealt with subse-
quently, also those who were anywhere thereabouts
on motor-cars, or observed passing in balloons, or
who rushed up on locomotives or traction engines,
ihe only suggestion to which the police are not
prepared to give some attention, it would appear
is that Bauer was really killed in Collins-street!
and conveyed to his room surreptitiously, it being
considered improbable that a man could carry a blood-
stained corpse up-stairs in a crowded building without
exciting some attention. This conclusion reflects great
credit on the force, but, despite the astuteness thus dis-
played, Melbourne people have no faith in the ability of
the police to catch the criminal, although there is some
little hope that the criminal may catch the police.
* » * *
The Melbourne tecs and the Melbourne
press seem to have jumped to the conclusion that
the slayer of diamond-merchant Bauer is some
well-known and experienced criminal. They are
guided to this belief by the adroitness with which
he got away, and the cold-bloodedness with which
he killed his victim in order to destroy the evi-
dence against him. But an amateur, or a person
that the police have never heard of, may get
away even more adroitly than a professional, if
luck favors him ; in fact, it is chiefly by the lack
of sufficient adroitness in getting away that a man
becomes known to the police as a professional
malefactor. When a man has been caught, or at
least discovered, often enough to be known as a
hardened criminal, he is obviously the man who
hasn’t put up the best of records as a swift
and noiseless vanisher round the corner. Therefore
it may be argued that it is the man whom the
police have never yet bowled out who should be
looked for rather than the one they have howled
frequently ; the force should hunt for the man it
has never heard of. Also the amateur criminal,
or the one who has never been found with blood-
stains upon him and the body on his premises, is
often quite as cold-blooded about wiping out his
victim as the known professional; as a case in
point, there is a mere youth in a Victorian gaol
who admits having done exactly that same thing.
Bauer evidently anticipated a visit and knew his
visitor—he was killed while in the act of weighing
loose diamonds. As his papers give no hint of
any appointment, how would it be if the ’tecs
turned their attention to the deceased’s respect-
able friends and customers, and tried to find out
which of them was in such financial straits that
he might reasonably want to kill and plunder a
diamond merchant? The cabman’s story about
the man who rushed out of Modern Buildings and
hooked it wildly in a vehicle to connect with the
Sydney express doesn’t necessarily mean any-
thing. Many times every day dilatory people
rush out of buildings—they couldn’t be expected
to rush out of dirt-boxes or coal-scuttles—and
catch trains with only half-a-minute to spare.
Probably no man in Australia has done it oftener
than Justiee Barton, who is reputed never to have
caught a train by more than a 10-seconds margin
n his life. And no suspicion attaches to him.
j * * * *
“ D.” offers a theory ;
When the Bauer murder is solved it will likely turn
out to be the work of some utterly commonplace per-
former. A series of crimes of this class occurred lately
in ’Frisco, beginning with the slaying of a Jap bank
manager, who was neatly clubbed to death from behind
as he bent to examine a cheque, and finishing, after five
faultlessly executed assassinations of the same kind, by a
bungled attempt on the life of one Behrends, a jeweller.
Behrends, though badly injured (his clubbing had taken
place as he turned to his safe), managed to han«-
on to one of his assailants till the police arrived. Then
it was found that this “ strong- arm ” band of cracksmen,
to which all California had been attributing the horrors
for months past, consisted of a brace of callow youths,
mere amateurs, as it were, in the great game of robbery
with bloodshed. In criminal circles it is mostly the unex-
pected that happens to commit the murder. From
present indications, and despite all talk of “ skilled
work,” “old hands” and the like, a Y.M.C.A. resort
would seem as plausible a place as any other to start a
hunt for Bauer’s slayer.
Melbourne gets its daily sensation now
just as it had its daily race meeting before Bent’s
Gaming Act came into operation. While the
Force was getting out of the limelight, and look-
ing in shady corners for clues to the Mint rob-
bery and the city murder, came news—carefully
suppressed as long as it was possible—of another
unaccountable steal. The Star of Australia Felix
lodge of Rechabites, which meets in the Temper-
ance Hall, just below the police barracks, is about
the most unlucky body of soft-drinkers extant.
In ’92 its secretary got away with £2OO of its
funds, and though he was subsequently convicted
the lodge recovered nothing. Two years ago its
treasurer took £l5O home with him one
night—and hasn’t since been seen or heard of.
After that disaster the lodge took less risks,
and the present treasurer, one Schunke, has to
deposit the quarterly-night receipts in a safe on
the premises in the presence of two stewards. At
10.30 p.tn., on June 10th, Schunke and these
stewards locked £l5O, in notes, gold and silver, in
the drawer of a small safe in a cupboard in the
Temperance Hall lodge-room, and locked the safe
and the cupboard. Then the caretaker locked the
room door and the hall itself, and all went home.
Next morning Schunke came along to take the
cash to the bank. Everything was locked as he
had left it—he having one safe-key, the bank the
other—but the cash was gone, and a shocked and
surprised Schunke hurried to the police office to
pile further trouble on the shoulders of the har-
assed ’tecs. A back door to the building was
open, but in this case, same as in the case of the
Mint robbery, the cupboard, the safe and the safe
drawer had all been opened with proper keys,
and carefully relocked, and there had been no
need for violence whatsoever. And when the fat
man meets the bald man at the corner he remarks
that it is a really astonishing coincidence.
* •* * #
There is no lack of charity in Merrie
England. Miss M. Loane, in her recently pub-
lished “ The Next Street But One,” says :
Letter-writers in the daily papers this winter have sug-
gested endowing the poor with old tea leaves, stale
bread, and pieces from the children’s plates. Why omit
sour milk from the cat’s saucer, and bones that have
ceased to interest the dog? I should think little of the
poor if I did not firmly believe that they would starve
rather than eat the scrapings of nursery plates—and what
must children be, brought up in the houses of people
capable of writing such maddening insults and calling
them charity ?
Miss Loane adds that one of her last experiences
as a district nurse was the offer, for the use of the
poor, of a feeding-bottle no longer needed by the
half-dozen puppy dogs for which it had been pur-
chased. This sort of reading fills one with a
yearning desire to be able to sentence all the
wealthy and charitable females of the country to
three years domestic service in the families of
small suburban grocers.
* » * *
“ Lantana ” : Passing recently along the
vicinity of Goulburn and Elizabeth streets (Syd-
ney), I was edified by the spectacle of a white
girl of about 16 toiling between the shafts of a
fair-sized truck, laden with crockery and assorted
debris. The “conductor,” a male thing of the
Assyrian persuasion, was doing all the grunting
while he shoved with one hand at the rear of the
vehicle. Went in search of a policeman, but the
vehicle and its human “shafter” passed on dur-
ing my absence. I had a vague idea I could get
at the savage for cruelty to humans, or something,
if I managed to interest the Law in the matter.
For a generation or so a certain
Victorian shire council was bossed by
the secretary—a jovial old soul, w'ho
made fearful and amazing errors in the
municipal accounts, and was usually
non est on council days, but who was
kept on because no one had the heart,
or the pluck, to shift him. The inevit-
able reformer arrived, being elected to
the council on the distinct understand-
ing that he was to be appointed chair-
man and that his first official act would
be to fire the jovial secretary. It was
a blistering hot day when the council
met for the first time after the
election, and no progress was made
because there was no secretary and
no minute book. The older hands
lit their pipes and waited philo-
sophically, but the reformer rose
in his place, and started to re-
form. For three-quarters of an
hour he vainly threw himself
up against the dead wall of
apathy, and tried in vain to find
a seconder for his proposal that
the drinky, confused and in-
visible secretary should be dis-
pensed with. Then he dis-
gustedly retired to an adjacent
pub wrote out his resigna-
tion. Ten minutes after he
was gone the convivial secre-
tary arrived, in his shirt-
sleeves and with a bell topper
over one eye, and struck the
table hard. “ Thish meetingsh
adjourn’,” he said. “ It’sh
too hot f’r me, anyhow.” And
the unreformed shire council
smiled and adjourned, blandly
indifferent to the fact that
thistles and stinkwort were
spreading over the land.
The case of Silk, the naval engineer, who
was belated near Port Darwin for five days or
thereabouts, suggests that some naval engineers
are mighty poor navigators. Silk got belated
eight miles from a town. There was a railway
line to guide him ; if he found the railway line,
he couldn t help finding the town, and any man
who could tell the points of the compass by the
sun, and could walk in a fairly straight line,
couldn t help finding the line. Under these easy
conditions, the distinguished explorer lost his
road, his gun, some of his clothes, a dead duck
that he was carrying, a wallaby tail (also dead),
and himself, and was at last rescued and towed
into dock by a nigger.
• * * *
An outfitter’s circular serves to recall the
fact that it doesn’t take much to construct the
yelling variety of University student, 1 which utters
its loud arrangement of sounds at Commencements
and such. “Gown, £1 10s. ; trencher, 10s. 6d.,”
says the manufacturer. Then there are the shrieks
—say 5d.; and the student itself, 2d. less than
nothing. Total, £2 Os. 9d.
In Sydney, t’other night, about £2300 was
raised at a meeting of the Foreign Missionary
Society. It seems a lot of money to plav-up in
educating Mr. and Mrs. Tanna to a taste for
trousers. Late Arbitration Court proceedings
suggest powerfully that a mission to the people
who sell the trousers to the converted Tanna
family would do more abiding good.
THE TRYING TIME.
THE DENTIST: “ Will you have gas, sir !”
M‘TAVISH : “ Eh, well, if ye wouldna wind, I
theenk I'll take the gas when you’re drawin'
ma siller . ”
Seeing that Greek mythology still
crops up freely in poetic literature, oratorical
allusion, and even in journalism, a word of en-
couragement is due, perhaps, to a booklet of “Old
Myth Stories—Simply told for Little Australians.”
They are not at all improving to the infant mind,
but the youngster who knows nothing of Perse-
phone and Midas and Atalanta and Atlas, &c.,
is likely to find the ignorance inconvenient at one
time or other in the future ; so it may be well for
Little Australians to become familiarised with the
names and doing of the old, mildewed kings and
gods and goddesses in a Hans Andersonian way.
The yarn concerning Ceres and her daughter
Persephone is at least as valuable as the rhyme Of
Mother Hubbard and her Dog. The same re-
mark applies to the fable of Ulysses and the
Sirens, which is a subject for the painter’s art,
whereas no artist of eminence has interested him-
self in Mrs. Hubbard and the animal that didn’t
get a bone. If the “Old Myth Stories” are un-
avoidable, and people are bound to “take” them
as one takes the measles, they had better be
taken early and easily. Miss Emma Pyke, of
the Yic. Education Department, is the authoress
of the booklet aforesaid. She got it published
last year, and somebody has lately remarked that
it supplies a Little Australian want. At any rate,
it is amusing to anyone who has read the original—
and less moral—versions of the same old myths.
The only important myth that is not in the book
is Spruce Myth.
WASTED ENERGY.
TIEKD BILL : “ It’s terrible ter see a young man
like that wasting his time. I've been lying
down over there watching im do that all
day."
Sydney Telegraph is still missing its
chances. There was that motor fatality in Mel-
bourne the other day—a Sydney clergyman
killed in Melbourne streets by a motor—and no
headings of
Melbourne Malevolence.
Its Merciless Motor.
Over-runs a Sydney Citizen of Blameless Life.
Wake Up, N.S. Wales !
* * « <. 1 *
If a laddie gets a wetting
Coming thro’ the rye,
If he has a cold upon him
.Need the laddie die ;
He can laugh at all chest troubles
If he can procure
The proper stuff, and plain enough.
It’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
A shortage of army officers is one of the
most serious of the problems which face British
War Minister Haldane just now. The extrava-
gant living that was formerly customaiy in all the
Guards and Cavalry, and in many of the Infantry
regiments, has lately been discouraged, and a fall-
ing off has occurred amongst the wealthy youths
who used to do a little sociable soldiering for the
sake of the gas
and gaiters at-
tached to the
business. Yet
the discourage-
ment hasn’t been
sufficient, nor is
the pay good
enough, to give
a chance to the
brainy man of no
means, who
might otherwise
make the Army
a profession. It
is hard to con-
ceive on what
principle Britain
recompenses its
officers. Thecost,
for example, of
the gorgeous
mass of steel,
iron, tin, lace,
cloth, feathers,
&c., that goes to
make up the
dress-uniform of
a Life Guards
subaltern isalone
far in excesss of
that youth’s first
year’s pay. Pos-
sibly it is tacitly
understood that in
war-time a certain lati-
tude shall be allowed these
starveling warriors in the looting line. Yet loot-
ing is a terribly precarious, and often dangerous,
method of adding to an inadequate income. And
half Britain’s wars are against people who have
nothing to be looted, except bullocks and garden
truck.
A curious breach of promise case has
struggled to a close in the Sydney courts. It was a
yellowish case, with much hard assertion in it.
The Syrian plaintiff was a lady who hawked
things with a horse and cart—a hawkeress, or
hawkerina. She had a glass eye, and said she was
24, and indignantly denied the charge of
being 40. She was attractive, barring the eye, and
the only objection to it was its glassy stare ; also,
she didn’t look 40, and her name was Cissie Zathar.
The defendant, Moses Hanna, was a Syrian
kid, who was alleged to have been only
16 when Cissie blandished him with her best eye
—or he mashed her. He was said to have sworn
by a strange saint named Maroon that he would
marry Cissie, and to have given her a handker-
chief, and to have objected to her speaking to
Malanck. The lady was partly corroborated by
her relative Bakash. On the other hand, Boy
Moses indignantly denied having ever succumbed
to the charms of Cissie, and pointed out that some
at least of his alleged love letters were signed with
the firm’s name, and dealt solely with business.
He denied having seduced the lady ; he denied
having kissed her; he denied knowing her age ;
in fact, he repudiated Cissie wholesale and retail,
except as a customer at the shop of his Syrian
parent. He was partly corroborated by Basha.
It was a long-drawn-out case, with many side
issues in it. The general tenor of the defence was
that Cissie was an elderly, brownish siren who
had beguiled little kid Moses, but an analyst gave
it as his opinion that a certain birth-entry, which
purported to provethe amazing youth of Moses; had
a curious discrepancy in it as. regards the age of the
ink used; and then Cissie was so good to look
upon that it seemed a shame to call her 40. So
the jury gave the lady a verdict of £250. Later
on, when she learns the mystery of Costs, she may
know more than she does now about the value of
a verdict for £250.
• * * *
They hange d Peter Sadeek at Broken Hill
the other day (it was Broken Hill’s first hanging),
and then they held the usual inquest to find out
what he died of. After deep research they dis-
covered that there was no ground for any sus-
picion that he had perished in the bush through
want of water, and they brought in a verdict
accordingly. Then they buried Peter Sadeek, in
the blessed hope that he will preserve his balance
on the bridge of Al-Sirat at J udginent Day:
» * » •
The confusion in the inner circles of the
N. S. W. Alliance has been so bad lately that Mrs
Christina Elizabeth Clark, a lady of the most
teetotal character, has been awarded heavy libel
damages against Mr. William Winn, a gentleman
who never takes any alcoholic stimulant what-
ever. About seven costly lawyers, all of whom,
as far as this paper is aware, drink a little, will
make a lot of money out of the affair. The
gentleman who doesn’t take anything will have to
pay £650 and a fearful lot of Costs, unless he gets
a new trial (possibly before a drinking Judge)
and a different kind of verdict at the end of it ;
and even that would only mean that one or other
of the strictly Cold Tea parties would have more
Costs to pay to the moderately-drinking legal
profession. And if the present verdict stands,
there is always a stack of Costs which it is
impossible for the winner to recover from the
loser; and it is quite possible for a lady who
shudders at the very sight of liquor to find a dis-
appointingly small sum left out-of a £650 verdict
gained against a conscientious Keehabite brother,
after certain drinking lawyers (drinking within
reasonable limits, of course) have had a bite out
of it. This paper can only say that it regards the
whole business as a regrettable mistake. When
two Recliabites fall out, and go to two
solicitors who keep something at home in the
decanter, and the briefs are drawn up and
submitted to barristers who (quite possibly)
smell of the whisky and soda they had at lunch,
and the case, after paying fees to all manner of
officials, who probably take a drop now and then,
goes before a Judge, who, as likely as not, enjoys
a taste occasionally, and is referred to a jury,
which, for all we know to the contrary, may
imbibe rum as a regular thing, and the c»se is
heard in a court right opposite a public-house, it
seems a grievous waste of good Rechabite money
and principle for the profit of the ungodly.
BALLADE OF A SLUDGE BOARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Sludge Board writes in an airy fashion about etc.
—Age Leading Article.
Of tribes and septs in their armor clashin’,
Historians write in tedious style ;
Of Rome and Nineveh, Carthage, Bashan,
And long-dead nations round the Nile ;
They publish volumes, pile on pile,
Nor on a tired world take compassion ;
Their books are heavy and only rile—
But the Sludge Board writes in an airy fashion.
In mood divine, from heights Parnassian,
The poet watches the stars defile,
And all things kindle to burning passion,
Where Life, and Beauty, and Love beguile—
In his bright universe naught is vile
That Fame’s eternal lightnings flash on ;
He dreams and writes with a god-like smile—
But the Sludge Board writes in an airy fashion.
ENVOI.
Prints though there be that charm awhile
The minds of men, they are grey and ashen
Beside those glories of grace and style
That the Sludge Board writes in an airy fashion !
VIC.
O. C. CABOT.


Teach
by
Post
r
All Business
AND
Technical Subjects.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
MOORE ST., SYDNEY.
“Home Study,”
Post Free.
THtJoNE
J. F. Archibald’s memories in The Lone Hand
for July (a larger instalment is given than in
previous issues) covers a wide range of interest.
The old Melbourne Daily Telegraph, the
Argus, the Sydney Daily Telegraph (in the
days when it was known as The Morning Rum),
the “ Black Wednesday ” of the Berry regime,
the girlhood of Madame Melba —all these are
touched upon with bright and humorous pen.
The method of these memoirs is to tell a good
yarn whenever it occurs, and “ bother the
sequence.”
Particularly strong in fiction will the July
Lone Hand be. Some of the stories :—
“Riches of Exile,” by Howard Ashton, a
Romance of the Foundation times of Australia,
with remarkable illustrations by Norman Lindsay;
“The Ridiculous Family,” by Henry Lawson, in
which this fine writer gets back to his old form as
the limner of the Australian bushman; “ Cold
Feet,” a story of humor and heroism, by Albert
Dorrington; “The Genius,” a charming child
story, by Alice Rosman, with illustrations by
Alex. Sass; “Sturdy Does It,” a cheery yarn of
human nature, by G. Bron; “ Happy Jack,” a
humorous bush sketch, with illustrations by Alex.
Sass ; “Two Battlers and a Bear,” a continuance
of this delightful comedy series, by Edward
Dyson, with illustrations by “Hop”; “The
Secrets of a Prime Minister (No. 2): The Inci-
dent of the Beautiful Terrorist”; and several
others.
More serious articles will not be neglected.
Frank Myers has a prose poem of the Bush, and
also a glowing appreciation of artist Stieeton.
The usual literary and dramatic features are in-
cluded, and the pictures represent a very decided
improvement on previous numbers. As a frontis-
piece, a portrait of J. C. Watson in red chalk, by
Norman Carter (suitable for framing), will be
given.
Many were unable to secure the May and June
numbers. Make sure of getting The Lone Hand
every month by subscribing now, direct to the
office, or to the nearest newsagent.
JhElg'ClfANfii
Subscription I2s. per year (post free).
Advertising Bates on Application.
214 George Street, Sydney.
“ Xley ” : I was at Halifax (N.Q.), and
scraped an accidental acquaintance with the
solitary carrier’s cart. Heaven knows what it had
done that day before I lighted on it. Anyhow, at
10 a.rn., it carted alotof empties to the station. At
11, it fetched a coffin for a Chow, who had died
from consumption or anything yqu like. At 11.30,
it carted the dead Chow and four live ones to the
cemetery. At 1.30, it brought a lot of edibles for
Governor Chelmsford’s reception at the station.
At 2.30, it carted away the triumphal arch (which
had been built by five Japanese, two Chows, two
Hindus, and a Dago, with one blackfellow looking
on), and a lot of bottles to the corporation tip. At
4, it took the scenery and props of a belated
dramatic company to the station. Then the horse
and man had a drink.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
- V ■
I § -
m
Km
msm
New Shipment of
All=Blue Underwear.
The demand for our All-Wool Underwear was so
great recently that we were obliged to cable for a
fresh supply, which is now at hand.
The two garments—Undershirts and Underpants
are genuine, all-wool, warm, comfortable, perfect-
fitting Underwear, and the man who would not
be simply delighted with them would indeed be
hard to please.
Shirts or Pants, 5/0,
Postage 6d, extra.
CTJT THIS OUT.
Please send me Undershirts (or Pants) for which I enclose
Size round Chest for Shirt
Size round Waist for Pants
PE APES & CO., Ltd ~ Men’s Outfitters,
309311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Thomas Clodd ” : The germ-hunters of
Maoriland are in a state of hysterics over two
alleged cases of plague in Auckland. Two girls
working in one building died. One died after a
short illness. It is alleged she wouldn’t have
died if she hadn’t been frightened to death. She
was in a weak state of health after an operation,
and the Germ Department, feeling suspicious,
sent its ambulance along, and insisted that she
should go straight to the hospital—alone, except
for the driver. No relatives or nurses were al-
lowed to accompany her. She passed out in a
hurry and a scare. The other girl had had a
tooth extracted the day before she died, and wild
yarns were circulated that she had swallowed
some mouth-wash —sworn to be harmless—and
perished in consequence. Further, it was alleged
that the girls had eaten from the same tin of
salmon, and had been killed by fish; but as they had
never even spoken to each other, this yarn was ex-
ploded in court. Just after the Bull-Boer Bait, the
Maoriland experts discovered the only case of small-
pox ever found in M.L., and burnt an enormous
quantity of soldiers’ property, besides the pro-
perty of the khakero who had the pimple. The
Germ Department published , photos without
faces—of detestable cases of smallpox, and led the
public to believe that they represented the con-
dition of the spotted ’ero, who admitted after-
wards that he had had the time of his life in
quarantine. They take epidemics in a serious
spirit in Ward’s country, and wild whirling doctors
ai e liable to set fire to the house almost before
the patient is out. of it, on suspicion that the case
is Asiatic cholera, or Black Death, or something,
or almost anything.
Australians
often meet persons
of “Oxford culture ”
who condescend to
shed light on benighted
outlying portions of the
earth, and some of them
are impressed. A recent English writer gives a
list of some of the things that one variety of
Oxford culture does not necessarily include :
No one who wishes to become a B.A. or M.A. of Oxford
is forced to study English composition or literature, the
history of the British Empire, the geography of the globe
we inhabit, the scientific discoveries and inventions
which have profoundly altered the conditions of modern
life, any of the fine arts, any of the laws of England, the
rules that guide the law courts in estimating the value
of human testimony, the art of government and econo-
mics, the art of war, or French, German, or any modern
language.
Come to think of it, an affected drawl, a languid
style of walking, and a few bits of dead language
are not much to make up for all this spacious
absence.
The Methody parson ought to know, and
it is the Methody parson who says that the
Methody brand of religion is so brittle that it
isn’t safe to take it out of the wadding. So the
Australian General Methodist Conference has
“strongly and affectionately ” urged the flock to
abstain entirely from dancing, theatre-going, and
such amusements, and to keep off the grass with
regard to any practice, “ however fashionable or
alluring, which
tends to lower
the tone of their
Christian char-
acter or lessen
their influence
for good.” Noth-
ing was men-
tioned about the
evil consequen-
ces of sweating,
and the rich Me-
thody fluff-seller
wasn’t affection-
ately urged to
leave off his
habit of “spiffs,”
which peril the
immortal soul of
the twelve-and-
sixpehny shop
assistant, who
can either sell
her conscience
and her tongue
to the boss, or
barter her fading
charms to the
first man who
rattles money in
his pocket as she
scurries home to
her bread and
dripping. Like-
wise the Con-
ference di d n’t
specify the hard
Methody land-
lord who grinds
out the utter-
most farthing of
rent, and makes
it necessary to
send out Billy,
the kid, to pick
up a few pence
and more bad
habits selling
papers in the
street. It is easy
to make yourself
a massive pillar
of your own little Bethel through “ compound-
ing sins you are inclined to by damning those
you have no mind to,” but there seems pretty
good reason to doubt whether you can make
yourself a pillar of heaven by the same cheap
process.
* * * *
So long as there are insincere class news-
papers, and “justices” who administer the law
with due regard for the rights of
“class,” so long will there be.
three kinds of “ justice ” —justice
tempered with mercy, justice
tempered with grovel, and justice
served out with a loud yell. A
late notable instance of merciful
class “justice” and newspaper
“discretion” is that which con-
cerns a young and foolish (to
say the least of it) medical
student at Melbourne Univer-
sity. At that institution there
lately occurred a series of petty
thefts, the most serious being
that of a microscope from a
woman-student, who valued the
goods at £B. The matter was
put into the hands of the police,
and they unearthed the culprit,
who was fined a fiver. In press
circles the affair was wrapped
in a heavy shroud of silence,
and hurriedly buried out of
sight, the convicted young man
not being an unfortunate can-
vasser or insurance tout who had
got away with 4s. 9d., but a per-
son whose “career” would be
spoilt by publicity. This kind
of incident, however noble and
just the decision, must embitter
the heart of the bloke who has
been put away for six months be-
cause he made off with a leg o’
mutton from a butchery, or the
sad-eyed slouch who exchanged
his worn-out bluchers for a pair
handily dangling from an opulent
shop-front. This kind of person
has no career to spoil, but he may have a “re-
cord ” —which the J.P. usually takes care to look
into before doling out mercy or dealing out judg-
ment.
* * * *
The Danysz committee still tries to bear
up against overwhelming evidence, and professes,
according to its organ, the Sydney Telegraph, to
look hopefully forward to a trial on the mainland, where
the French scientist himself anticipated probably better
results than were obtainable on the island, owing to the
influence of the sea on soil and herbage there.
But there is no chance of Danysz being
allowed to try his rabbit virus on the main-
land. He failed badly under specially favor-
able conditions. With his rabbits so crowded up
that there was every chance of them dying in any
case, the Danysz remedy failed as regards a
large proportion of them. The inference is that it
would fail much worse in the interior, where the
rabbit, instead of being penned up as a prisoner, is
leading the strenuous open-air life. It isn’t
worth while, under the circumstances, to let loose
a disease which might attack the flocks and
herds and domestic fowls, and even human
beings, though Danysz says it wouldn’t. Danysz
hasn’t been so much of a success that Aus-
tralia can afford to take his word in the
matter. He is in the position of a man who
couldn’t shoot his rabbit at close range when it
was tied to a tree, and still he claims to be a
marksman, who can be let loose to shoot
promiscuously and be trusted not to hit the wrong
animal. The Telegraph says that it was the sea air
and the herbage that spoiled his aim, but even
that eloquent assurance isn’t sufficient.
“All, my Beloved, fill the Cup.” You
may just as well fill it with the purest spirit avail-
able. Wolfe’s Schnapps is the liveliest stimu-
lant and best tonic known for mind or body.*
Melbourne bakers have the same weakness
for water as Melbourne milkmen, and several
have been prosecuted for watering their bread.
In one case the loaf was found to contain 43J per
cent, of water. Probably this baker delivered his
bread in a bucket. What with watered whisky,
watered bread, watered milk and watered stock,
water is about the most expensive commodity
going.
THE LOAVES AND FISHES.
“ Papa,” said the missionary worker's little
daughter, “ I am playing that my dolls are
heathens .”
“ That is nice, dear.”
“ And — and, papa, I want a penny to pay the
missionary ’s salary. ”
The result of a recent marine investiga-
tion, held at Auckland (M.L.), is highly interest-
ing. TheTe Aroha, a small paddle steamer of 50
tons, intended for river work only, was sent on a
voyage from Auckland to the west coast of the
North Island, and on the first or second night out
it foundered half a mile off the shore. The men
on board escaped by a narrow margin. The Court
found: (1) Ihat the vessel left Auckland quite un-
fit for the voyage, and in an unseaworthy condi-
tion. (2) That when it began to make water, its
bunkers were so rotten that the coal washed out
and clogged the pumps, so that there was
no chance of keeping it afloat. (3) That by
reason of their action in sending such a
death-trap to sea, the owners had broken
most of the clauses in the Maoriland Shipping
Act. (4) That, as one especially bad breakage,
the vessel was sent out without a certificate. And
this lawlessness which, but for the luck of the
weather, might have been wholesale man-
slaughter, so angered the Court that it ordered
the owner of the vessel to pay £2O 7s lOd costs
of the inquiry. Jrerhaps it was all that it could
do ; but the British Shipping Act provides heavy
fine and long imprisonment for the person who
sends out an unseaworthy ship, and the M.L. Act
is commonly believed to do likewise, and if it
does, there must be some authority with power to
proceed in such a bad case as that of the Te
Aroha.
* * * »
Bill’s (also Jim’s) characteristic lengthy
“ft "S*” embarrassed G H &J
other things the unhealthiness of the shearer’s lot!
Reid was disconcerted to see six feet odd of tanned
brawn and sinew appear as the first witness,
Counsel got him out of sight as soon as possible,
and called another. He tfas longer, more tanned]
brawnier, and more sinewy than the first, and the
Court smiled broadly. He also disappeared
hurriedly, and a third was called. Presently the
building trembled, and about two cwt. of human,
apparently 80in. high, squeezed into the box, and
stood up. He looked as if he could juggle with
bulks like Reid for mere amusement. The K.C.
sat down heavily. “ I think I’ll stop proving the
unhealthiness,” he said helplessly.
It was alleged on analytical evidence be-
fore a Sydney coroner last week, that the Aus-
tralian Gas Go. of Sydney does not supply its
customers with coal gas, but with a mixture of
coal and water gas, which is more poisonous than
pure coal gas, and being less smellful, gives far
less warning of a leakage. The mixture has a
larger proportion of carbon monoxide—the choke-
damp of the coal pit—than pure coal gas, and that
makes the difference; it is also much cheaper to
make, and that makes the other difference. One
fatality has already been attributed to the escape
of the substance that kills you suddenly and with
little warning.
* * *
An Adelaide youth last week had to stand
and hear the Criminal Court play tennis with his
chance of liberty. It was an exciting rally. (1)
He was found guilty of assault. (2) But the vic-
tim was (as the Judge candidly remarked) “a
mature woman of shameless, filthy, and intemper-
ate conduct.” (3) But even such a woman has a
right to protection. (4) But prisoner bore an
excellent character. (5) But he had already been
in the reformatory for throwing a dog into a fire.
(6) But it was only a lot of smoking boughs, and
the deed was a “ playful act,” and didn’t damage
the dog so much as might be supposed. (7) But
the Judge had happened to be passing on that
occasion, and said it was a brutal proceeding. So
prisoner got six months for assaulting a woman,
apparently because two years ago he was unkind
to a dog in the presence of a lawyer who has since
become a Judge.
THE HEATHEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Methodist Conference; the question of an Aus-
tralian mission to India was discussed.
Dr. Fitchett said India was simply the most tremendous
aggregation of heathen forces on the planet. China was
nothing to it.—News item.
What’s a heathen ?
What’s the germ
Of this misused
Saxon term ?
What’s a heathen ?
Is he one
Who some hideous
Deed has done ?
What’s a heathen ?
Any man
Not within OUB
Clique or clan !
Some queer stranger
From the bush,
Not a member
Of our Push !
All the teeming
Millions who
May be Buddhist
Or Hindu,
They are heathen
To the man
Who’s a fervent
Wesleyan !
To the Fitchetts
It is clear
All non-Fitehetts
Far and near ;
Though there’s hope of
Saving them ;
Must be heathen,
Branch and stem ;
To Mahomet’s
Followers
He’s a heathen
Who prefers
Any other
Form of creed
But the one that
Moslems heed !
There’s the secret,
There’s the rub,
Found in every
Creed and club !
What’s a heathen ?
ANY man
Not within OUB
Little clan 1
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGK.


It would seem that “ A Man Like
Johnson” can kick. On account of
some nasty things the daily papers of
Sydney have been saying about our
newly-imported Railway Commissioner,
their representatives have been ex-
cluded from deputations and things.
Our readers will be glad to hear that
traces of the long-lost Oeo. Reid have
been found. A scrap of paper has been
picked up by a black tracker containing
some wildly-incoherent utterances of
his on the Australian Hall Contract.
By-the-bye, Chief
of Police, Melbourne,
has A Man Like Johnson.
In consequence of the Press attacks
on the inefficiency of the police, the Vic-
torian Police Department has given in-
structions that in future the detectives
are not, under any circumstances, to
give any information to the Press, and
a policy of secrecy has been followed
for some time.
THE DEAD SILENCE.
-Iu e J O, V, reSS Sti " Urges Premier Kidston to make a coalition
with Opposition leader Philp.
Philp (at the telephone ) : “I’ve been waiting here for a month
and still he doesn’t ring up.”
The Bottle-oh man must go. The
brewer’s hand is raised against him.
Dejected Bottle-oh Alan :
"I “Alars! there’s no-
l thing left for me
Oj \ now but to go into
'/ / V ) Parl’ment I ”
Mr. Consett Stephen, a
Sydney solicitor, sug- N
gests that N.S.W, should
start its own mail service,
.It will be necessary to
storm the G.P.O. and
steal the mails.
Above may be seen C.
Stephen leading a forlorn
hope in an attack on the
G.P.O.
Here you see the .sportive Crick ad-
dressing the electors of Surry Hills,
the Bottle-oh suburb, for which he has
announced his candidature.
And here ditto ditto the Truly Good
Bruntnell, who is the other candidate,
on anti-barmaid, anti.gambling princi.
pies.
A Voice : “Wot about pony-racing?"
POLITICS. WITH SOME SECESH AND A GLANCE AT JOHNSON.


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
David vStorer O, iSons’
Tattoo Oil
[Registered Trade Mark]
IS THE ONLY ABSOLUTELY
In Three Colors:
BLACK, RED,
(EL BLUE.
Kept by ...
all merchants
(Sb STOREKEEPERS.
SAFE
WOOL-MARKING or
OIL
k
THE PERFECT
SHEEP-MARKER.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE RABBIT-PROOF FENCE.—AN
ABORIGINALITY OF SOME
TRUTH.
The recent earthquake at Kingston (S.A.)
has made the south-eastern corner of that State
very thoughtful. In 1897 there was a shock down
there every day for a year, but since then nothing
further happened till the beginning of this month.
Mount Gambier, the chief town of the district, is
built fairly in the crater of an old volcano —sup-
posed to be utterly extinct, but even the deadest
volcano can’t be wholly trusted.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: After rain at Tib-
ooburra (N.S.W.), folk go specking on the
alluvial flats in the township. Where does this
fine gold come from ? Some assert that it comes
from a parent reef, which will be found some day.
Near the granite-guarded township is a pyramidal
hill of diorite. A well-known geologist said that
all the gold in the alluvial came from that knob.
The heat and cold, rains and winds of centuries,
by saturation and desiccation, gradually wore
down a mountain of diorite into a little hill ; and
the gold thus set free has been washed by storms
over the flats. I believe that rich gold deposits
will be found in the curious dry water-courses of
that neglected and remote region.
* * * *
Tell of the good of it,
Say what you should of it,
All that you could of it.
Say what you would of it,
Tell of colds cured by it,
Good health ensured by it,
Long life secured by it—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“ Lindy Lou ” : Of all pests to which the
goldminer in alluvial tunnelling country is sub-
ject, the worst is the man who neglects to timber.
Sometimes he is too mean to buy timber ; other
times he is too lazy to split it. Sometimes it is
simply recklessness on his part; but anyway he’s
a curse. He will boast of his cheap tunnel when
he is in 200ft. or 300ft., and he claims that his
knowledge of how to slope the sides of the orifice
at the correct angle makes it as safe as a building
society. But it always ends the same way. Some
day his trucker tears along yelling that Bill is at
the face and the tunnel has pinched. Then all
hands rush as fast as their feet will carry them to
the spot, and graft their souls out, and use their
own timber in making things safe behind them.
And all the while they tell one another of the
things they will say to the fool when they get
him out. But, when they find him, he is gasping
and all but done for, and he moans, “Gawd ! but
I thought it was all up this time.” Then they
forgive him, and spill good liquor down his neck.
Also, they put him on to another show, and give
the “ pore devil ” enough stuff to keep him going
for six months. But such is the nature of miners.
* * * *
“ Plumbob ” : I recently caused the death
of some hoodies in an unusual manner. The
boodie is a small animal with a snout like a
miniature pig, though elongated a trifle. He
goes through life wearing a deferential, apologetic
look, and only ventures out at night. When con-
fronted with a light he is quite blind, and keeps
side-stepping to avoid a danger of which he is
conscious though its whereabouts is a mystery.
Iii this state it is quite easy to kill him ; but
killing things causes me no pleasurable sensations.
So I made an agreement with them that they
were not to touch the salt and flour, and I put
the rest of the goods beyond their reach. After
a while they used to pick up the fragments that
remained after a meal quite fearlessly. But I
woke one morning to find most of the self-raising
flour inside two boodies. They had the distorted
abdomens of those who take risks, and even in
death their eyes wore the reproachful “ vvhy-did-
I-trust-you ” look of those whose confidence has
been abused.
* * * *
“ Percole ” : Talking about hybrids (which
we ain’t), I saw something the other day which
knocks the ’possum-cat into a billycock hat. In
a densely-timbered, fertile desert, somewhere
about central New South Australia, I started
a peculiar animal, which appeared to be half
dog, half reptile, half nondescript, and the,
other half nothing in particular. Its front legs
were twice the length of the hind ones, and when
it made a noise it was something between a silent
roar and an ear-splitting whisper. When it was
silent it didn’t make any noise at all. It slid
along the ground at what can only be described
as a crawling gallop, and disappeared into the
scrub with a shriek like the soulling of a lost
whale. An unnaturalist has since told me that I
was fortunate enough to see the only existing
specimen, alive or dead, of the most mysterious
animal known to zoology, namely the dingoanna.
There is only one other creature as scarce (he
informs me), and that is the hybrid which is a
cross between a two-legged bird and a pain in the
jaw, known as the cockatoothache.
* * *
“ David H. Richards” : One of the most
exasperating experiences that can befall anyone
in this exasperating world is to be camped for a
lengthy stretch with a mate who can descant on
nothing but his past drunks. Especially if it
rains for 39 days and nights, and you have nothing
to read, and no gun wherewith to do murder, and
no lines wherewith to fish, and nothing but the
wetness of Nature to help you bear your lot,
and restrain you from slaying your com-
panion to an excessive deadness.
Then you get into the poetic habit
of yearning, and you yearn with a
yearning vast and solid for some-
one who will say something about
the man who got a slush-lamp
and went searching for honest
men, but found only land agents;
or about the ideas of Nero in
the matter of matricide, or the
amours of Paris, or the Dago
Renaissance, or the dry-rot in
modern English drama, or the
advisability of an Australian Life
Assurance Department, or Jason,
or skipper Kidd, or the millen-
nium, or the glory of the ever-
lasting stars, or the question
whether Cain married a monkey,
or about the canoes that go by
in the night, or the smoke-room
yarns of Boccacio —anything, in
fact, but beer. The sound of your
mate’s voice makes you curse beer;
and a man has to be desperately exas-
perated before he’ll curse beer.
“ F.H.R.” : The Australian bushman is a
versatile crittur, and takes naturally to batching
in general. Most of him can cook as well as eat.
Most of him can sew some, and spends much time
putting decent patches on trousers that ar&hardly
worth the time and trouble; but though he washes
his own clothes, he is not an expert at laundry
work, and always considers it effemininate as well
as laborious. The part he really excels in is the
wringing. He generally gets a mate, if one is
handy, and they twist opposite ways for all they
are worth. Neither would allow the other to
wring the end out of his grasp, so it develops into
a muscular competition something similar to a
scratch pull. When not another drop of moisture
can be squeezed out, they unfold the trousers or
shirt, and generally find it twisted into rags.
Then busliie hangs it across a log where the
goats can get at it, and is content.
■Jr * * •
Tickling in the throat seems trifling, but
you know these little, insignificant complaints
gradually develop into the most serious, unless
checked in time. Nature invariably sounds the
alarm, and if you don’t heed, disastrous results
generally follow. When there is a tickling in the
throat you may rest assured there is some cause;
some foreign substance lodged or some inflamma-
tion. You must take Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. You can feel at once its soothing,
quietening, and healing influence. It is no ex-
periment. Not only does Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy reduce the inflammation, but strengthens
the delicate lining of the throat, makes it stronger
and more able to throw off pulmonary diseases.*
“Oxo.” : The altered climatic conditions
of Southern Gippsland, during late years, seem
to support the contention that the rainfall is con-
trolled by the forest areas. Old inhabitants aver
that, previous to the influx of settlers and the
consequent clearing, the rainfall was considerably
heavier. Now the climate is becoming somewhat
similar to that of the Northern districts. Minus
its copious rainfall, Gippsland is inferior to
Northern Victoria for fertility, and, placed under
similar conditions, must be superseded thereby.
Agriculturally speaking, Gippsland is very
patchy, and the Bent Closer Settlement policy as
applied to it is a farce. The Allambee Estate,
now being subdivided, is in a fearfully precipitous
district, road grades being, in some instances, as
steep as one in three.
NEW YEAR MUSINGS.
INEBRIATED PARTY (at the ringing out of the old year) ; “ Lesh sheel
thish year or lasht year, or the nex year.”
“ J.G.” relates a mean-man story :
He was a big bachelor cocky, and owned over 900 acres
of land in Northern Victoria. One day, whilst riding"
around his paddock, he was thrown off his horse, or got
bucked off, or the horse shied and he slipped off, or he got
drunk and fell off. Whichever it was, his neighbor saw him
lying on the ground one red hot afternoon, and, going-
over, found that the mean man was unconscious, and
that his leg was broken. As the damaged one had no
relatives or friends about the place, the neighbor had
him brought to his (the neighbor’s) house, and bound up
the damaged part of him as best he could. Then he
harnessed a horse in a trap and drove the sufferer
to the local hospital. On the way the broken-legged
mean man revived a little, and asked the sound legged
generous man to look after his farm until he recovered.
The sound-legged man agreed to do this, and suggested
that the broken-legged man should leave his valuables in
his charge. But the broken-legged man said he wouldn't
trust anybody with them. He had his bank book, show-
ing a credit of several thousands. And perhaps he had
an idea that his neighbor would forge the broken-legged
man’s name, and draw out the money. After he
was admitted into the hospital and put to bed,
his clothes were taken away, as is the custom in hos-
pitals, so that the broken-legged man could not get
up until the doctor allowed him. Whilst the wardsman
was hanging up the broken-legged man’s coat, the bank
book dropped out. The warder carried it to the secre-
tary for safe keeping. The broken-legged man was in
the hospital for about four months, and when he was
going out, the secretary suggested that he should give a
donation to the hospital funds. The ex-broken-legged
cocky then pitched a whining tale to the effect that he
was too poor to do this ; he had no money, owing to
droughts and high-priced labor, and his farm was
carried on at a big logs, and he only kept it because it
was a hobby of his. “Oh, I see,” said the secretary,
“ then this is not your book. I thought it was. It must
belong to somebody else of the same name.” Thin the
ex-broken-legged man felt his coat pocket, and all but
fainted, as he recognised that his book was in the hands
of the enemy. Finally he said he would give 10s. to the
hospital funds. But the secretary pointed out that per-
sons with means had to pay £2 a week, and the wretched
ex-broken-legged man didn’t get away until he hail
signed a cheque for £4O. Then he went home, and al-
though his neighbor had looked after his farm for him
all the time he was in the hospital, he didn’t as much as
say “ thank you.”
“G. Elburg ” : Remember a joyous raid
once on a fan-tan establishment in Port Darwin,
round which Governors and Ms.P. have just been
wandering. The fighting trooper was stationed
in the yard at the rear, while the Inspector and
another made their way in through the front.
The backyard sentry noticed a Wood-pile, so
selected a waddy of convenient length and weight,
and stationed himself near the door. After sounds
of trouble in the building, the door burst open,
and a yellow stream emerged in haste, and imme-
diately struck hard trouble about the head. The
Inspector came last, with a Chow’s neck in each
hand. “ Made any arrests, constable ? ” he asked.
The trooper pointed to seven recumbent bodies.
“ Take your pick, sir,” he responded respectfully.
“ Sancho ” : “ Micawber ” (B. 30/5/’O7) is
“up the pole ” in his remarks upon push phrase-
ology. “Bonzer,” long since defunct, has been
succeeded by “Just the mud.” Anything at all
off-color is derided as being a horrible “ frisco.”
Possibly the word is derived partly from “fiasco’’
and partly from the Californian earthquake.
* * * *
“D.H.R.”: Re bush J’s.P. (B. 2/5/’O7).
A man of many acres but diminutive erudition
sat, like Sancho Panza of old, upon the court
stump to hear a dispute between two others of his
kind over a bucket. The first man said he had
lent the second a bucket to bring some water from
the river, and he hadn’t returned the article —as.
a matter of fact, he had let the utensil slip.
After much evidence (which consisted mainly of
recriminations and reflections from both sides on
the other side’s ancestors) my J.P. asked the
plaintiff what value he placed on the vessel.
“Twenty-five bob, ver Honor,” replied the
plaintiff. “ What !” roared the astounded beak.
“Twenty-five bob for a bucket!”
“Twenty-five bob for a bucket” is a byword on
the Warrego to this day. In the early days of
Bourke, a newly-invested J.P. with a mouth for
booze was dragged, in the absence of all other
authority, to adjudicate on his maiden case, which
was one of riotous behavior. When the J.P. had
been assisted on his tottering way to the Bench,
the solitary constable of those parts went off into
a lengthy recital of cross-counters and frayed
uniform. When he had ended, a silence heavier
than a sermon fell over the precincts. For awhile
the limb o’ the law waited for a conviction to
reward his eloquence, till suddenly the cop realised
that the beak had fallen asleep. Hastily, and
almost irreverently, he awoke him and explained
matters. “ Oh, take the fellow out and hang
him ! ” was the verdict.
GOIN DOWN TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the last mob’s shorn and raddled,
And it’s Christmas time once more,
And the old mare’s standin’ saddled,
Svvishin’ flies off at the door ;
Oh, you’re light of heart and merry,
And you’re strong, and fit, and brown,
And it’s good-bye, Tom and Jerry,
For you’re goin’ down to town.
Goin’ down to town,
Strong and fit and brown,
With a cheque pinned in your pocket,
You are goin’ down to town.
At the rails the boys are waitin’
With commissions by the score,
And old Bill is just debatin’
If he’ll have “ a dozen more.”
And it’s cartridges and baccer,
And you start to write ’em down,
Till you reckon you must yakker
When you’re goin’ down to town.
Goin’ down to town
(At last the rails are down),
And the old mare’s like a filly
When you’re goin’ down to town.
Oh, it’s grand the boyish riot
That is runnin’ in your heart,
When the whirrin’ Wolselev’s quiet,
And you’re ready to depart
From a year of solid graftin’,
On the plains so bare and brown,
From the beltin’ and the shaftin’
You are goin’ down to town.
Goin’ down to town,
To buy the girl a gown—
Oh, your heart is full of music
When you’re goin’ down to town.
And you pass old Regan’s quarter
Skirtin’ out a mile or more,
For you know that Regan’s daughter
W.li be waitin’ at the door ;
And you reckon you suspect her
When it comes to “ lambin’ down ” ;
So you’re dodgin’ Regan’s nectar
When you’re goin’ down to town.
Goin’ down to town,
Nary lambin’ down,
You’ll get lots of better l'cker
When you’re goin’ down to town.
And you feel a strange emotion
While the mare is goin’ free,
For you’re thinkin’ of the ocean,
And the salt breath of the sea ;
Oh, you’ll see the breakers swingin’
Where the misty headlands frown,
And you burst out sudden singin’
When you’re goin’ down to town !
Goin’ down to town
To buy the girl a gown—
Oh, the old mare shakes her bridle
When you’re goin’ down to town.
H.S.W.
HORAOK CHARLES HALLORAN.


as?
n.i
H W.
A DRINK TO BE
GRATEFUL FOR
fOsCHNAFFS
A Medicine as well as a Beverage.
SQUATTERS*
Diamonds are a good invest-
ment it bought wisely.
They have increased in value
over 25% lately.
They will go up still higher.
All Special Diamonds, £2B.
Sappliire, Ruby and
Diamonds, £l5.
They must ever increase in value.
WHY ?
The world’s production is not equal to the demand.
Sixty years ago a favored few bought diamonds.
To-day hundreds of thousands in every land are buyin
New mines have not been discovered.
Choice Jnjrers-
fpntein Diamonds
and one Whole
Pearl Dress King-,
£l2 12s.
Special Diamonds,
*,lB. With 2 Kubies
and Diamonds, £l5.
With 2 different
colored Sapphires
and Diamonds,
£l2 12s.
SEE. OUR. GRAND STOCK,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
WHAT HE DID KNOW.
BENNO : “ What yer marrer say for coppin yer
out waggin it, Pete ? ”
PETE: “ I dunno what she sed, but, my oaf, don’t
it ’urt when yer sit down ? ”
“ Quan” supplies some camel lore :
While the smell of a camel will cause horses (or, at
least, such of them as are not on everyday speaking terms
with that personification of stink) to light out for the
horizon, it has the opposite effect upon cattle, which will
charge the perambulating smell with 19 h.p. energy.
Yet, if the camel bellows, most cattle, even in the height
of their maddest charge, will turn tail. The horse is
supposed to have a good memory ; yet horses which are
accustomed to camels, but which go for a few months
to a place where there are none, are, upon their return
just as afraid of them as if they had never seen them pre-
viously.
* « * *
“ Krys. W.” : The cakewalk had pene-
trated to the bush darnce, but only one couple
from somewhere nearer civilisation had any idea
of dancing it. Accordingly, when the concertina
started the inevitable “When the Billy Boils
Over,” this particular pair commenced to prance
and throw their legs about and shy at each other
and at the startled push. Finally, just as they
were doing their best, the “skirt” somehow got
her foot caught in the pocket of the bloke in
front, and came down a “bosker.” So did the
bloke, whose rightful property the pocket was.
Before the prancers behind could stop they
wandered on top of the fallen, and sat down
abruptly also. The swearing of the M.C. and the
wail of the horrified concertina added to the
general din. Finally the prostrate crowd was
sorted out, and the “skirt’s” foot was got out of
the bloke’s pocket. Whereupon the M.C. rose
and went for the offenders with the following
gentle exhortation, plentifully strewn with
“color”: “Look ’ere, you bloke an’ his piece,
next time yer comes ter a darnce, darnce that
city hop all ther’ way ’ere, and knock off when
yer gits inside.”
“Wang”: Sweet charity, what crimes
are committed in thy name l I remember a few
years ago, at Wangaratta (Vic.), a “carnival” in
aid of the local hospital. Amongst the items for
the amusement of the assembled crowd was a wild
bullock riding competition by local Buffalo
Williams, A particularly miserable walking-
beef was hauled into the arena. Then 13-stone
weight of gladiator leapt on his back and started
ripping him with spurs. Also a man came along
with a pointed stick, and gave him a few ungentle
reminders that he had to caper about in the cause
of charity. But he refused to caper, and after he
had lost a pint or two of blood and a few square
inches of hide he uttered a moan of resignation,
and lay down. A little farther away I noticed
another hoodlum with a blackened face, standing
in a barrel, holding a dilapidated brolly in front
of himself, while a number of tomfools fired lumps
of wood, weighing about 31b. each, at him at a
ha penny a shot. He ducked whenever one
whistled near his cranium, and thereby escaped
ruin. Had he ducked a moment too” late, he
would have been laid up for repairs, or buried, or
something, and either the gamfe would have had
to cease, or some other jackass would have had to
take the tattered gamp, and dodge the flying
timber in the blessed cause of benevolence.
* it # .g
“Paul Cupid” : The common bush theory
that a snake will not try to go away if you watch
it is both true and false. A person may watch a
reptile while another person goes for a stick, and
never take his eyes off, and still the serpent may
crawl leisurely away when it feels inclined. Yet
if the watcher knows his business, and is wa tch.ng
a snake at, say, Dan, he can keep it there while
his companion goes to Beersheba for a stick. A
snake is, in one re-
spect, something like
the Speaker of the
House ; you must
catch his eye before
you can do much
good. When the rep-
tile crawls away
while being watched,
it is clear that the
watcher has his eyes
fixed on its body or
tail, which is no
good. To keep a
reptile stationary
you should, if pos-
sible, get straight in
front of it, and con
centrate your gaze
steadily on a spot
between the serpent’s
beady optics. Keep
your gaze on the
same spot, don’t
blink, and that snake
will not try to go
away from you,
though it may start
to come towards you.
■But don’t lie afraid ;
it won’t bite. If you
are afraid, don’t try
the business at all.
The reason the rep-
tile will not go away
is because man can
fascinate a snake, if
he only knows how
to apply the power.
No doubt it is this
circumstance that
gave rise to the be-
lief of some people
that if you put any-
thing on the ground
in front of a snake, it
will .watch it while
you go for the al-
ways-absent stick. I
knew a city Johnny
who had heard this.
Johnny was saunter-
ing by a dam, study-
ing the landscape,
w hen he nearly
stepped on a mag-
nificent specimen of
Pseudechis porphy-
riaeus. Johnny gave the first leap of his life,
and making a flank movement, put his hard-
hitter down about 20yds. in front of the snake,
and then went in search of a stick. In about 20
minutes he returned with four fathoms of young
tree on his shoulder. The snake was gone.
Johnny threw the stick into the dam, com-
menting to himself on the unreliableness of
bush legendry in general. Then he picked up
his hat, and the snake hurriedly uncoiled itself and
darted away, while Johnny gave the second jump
of his life, and said “Bai Jove!” and “ Bai ” several
other things.
“8.0. V.” : I’d never make a living as a
murderer. I had the job of killing a fowl last
week, so asked Smith to “Cumangiveusahand,”
and even offered to go for a bottle of beer whilst
Smith did the job on his own. Smith wanted to
go for the beer too, so in the end we both took
part in the execution. After chasing the feathered
biped for 23 minutes, we caught it and tied its
legs. We then prepared the block and axe, same
as for Polly, Queen of Scots. The fowl persist-
ently refused to keep its head on the block, and I
refused to hold it on when I saw the madness
with which Smith lashed out with the axe. So
we fixed its legs to a peg in the ground, put a
string round its head and pulled its neck over the
block. Then Smith belted all the universe with
the axe and split the heavens. He almost severed
the bird’s neck. With an irresistible flutter it
left its moorings, and flew up, peg and all, on to
the shed, and there, with its head hanging on by
a few feathers, it gave three agonising crows and
then flapped back on to the ground. Smith and I
watched further operations from the bathroom
window, with the door locked. After 11 minutes
we took courage and a washing-board, and went
out and smote the fowl to death. Bloodstained,
we brought the executed bird to the kitchen, and
learned that we had killed the only rooster by
mistake. I refused to do any more killing.
Smith went home drunk. I’d sooner go Judding
than slay another fowl.
HIS PASTE EXPERIENCE,
PROPRIETOR (to new editor of the Boobybingee BANNER ): “ You’re a pretty editor. Why, the
confounded issue’s all extract. Hanged if I believe you're had any past experience.”
NEW EDITOR (with dignity): “ You are mistaken, sir. I served six years as a bill-poster.”
“ Combo Jim ” writes (there is red dust in
his letter, and the postmark signifies that it comes
from the desert at the back of everything save
the crow, the rabbit, and the dingo ; it is even
west of the mortgage):—
“ Jimmie Pannikin” asks if any contributor can throw
light on the history of those conical-shaped aboriginal
stones found west-o’-Darling-. Having lived all my life in
the district referred to, I can give “Jimmie IV’ the
explanation furnished by the aborigines themselves. The
stones are called “Death Stones, and the birth and
death of every member of a family is marked on that
family’s stone, much the same as‘in our own family
Bible We do not bury the Bible with the deceased.
Neither do they bury their “ Death Stones, but keep
them as records to hand from one generation to another.
The stones are family possessions, not tribal. Therefore
when the family becomes extinct, through sickness or
war, the stone is left behind by the tribe when it shifts
camp. A nigger carries nothing that is of no use to him.
The various compositions of the stones are due to the
laziness of the aborigine; he uses the handiest stone
he can find wherever he may be when he wants one. In
some districts slate predominates, in others sandstone,
and so on. The markings represent the births and deaths
of the blackfellows’gins and the piccaninnies of the house-
hold that at one time possessed the geological relic,
Presumably when a stone becomes covered with records,
the family gets a new boulder and leaves the old on
behind, but that is mere theory.*
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : I have found my Gippsland
■ e .t-1 r ui . J ■ £
informant fairly reliable up to now, allowing for
the bushman s passion. for dramatic effect, and
am disposed to believe m the peripatetic female
he has just reported upon The strange wandering
sister came to Baxter shut at noon when the rail
and paling splitter was busy burning h.s mid-day
chop at the stake out-o-doors. She was short
plump, and nuggety, about 36, and not too bad
in the eyes of a man with no prejudices. She
carried a kind of a swag and a billy, and greeted
Baxter like a man and a brother. “Good day
mate, she said “Good day, ma’am ” answered
the axeman, rather diffidently. “I s pose,” said
the woman in the most matter-of-fact tone, you
don t happen to be wantin’ a wife? ’ Baxter
dropped his chop into the ashes, and started up
m amazement. “Want a what? he gasped.
“Why a wife, to be sure. Why not?” “Wli-well
I’m—jiggered!” said Baxter. Then lie shook
his head decisively, and having raked his chop
out, went round to the other side to continue
the cooking. “ No, I don’want no wife,” he said
decisively. “I’m a good cook,” said the woman
insinuatingly. Baxter shook his head. “Good
at wash hi’ an’ironin’,” she went on. “Not to-
day, ma’am,” said Baxter. “ I can earn me six-
teen bob a-week easy, but they prefer married
couples on the jobs now,” the woman said. “ Sure
you don’t want a wife ?” Baxter shook his head
in a manner that left no shadow of a doubt,
“Know any likely chap about here that does
want a wife ? ” Baxter gave the matter due con-
sideration. “No,” he said. “Well then, can
you direct me to any chaps batchin’. Nothin’
like tryin’ for one’s self.” Baxter directed her to
Guire, and Thonemann, and Lister, and M’Kenny,
and the woman picked up her swag and shouldered
it. “I’ll give Lister the chance of his lifetime,”
she said. She tried the whole four without sue-
cess. The blokes at Sawpit had no enterprise,
When last heard from she was 13 miles back from
the railway, still pursuing her quest.
“G.H.P.” : There is a popular idea that
our bladk brother’s favorite and usual weapon is
a boomerang. But a great many tribes have a
very hazy idea of the boomerang, and don’t know
the first thing about throwing one. The Queens-
land nigger is undoubtedly the “daddy ” at both
-. manufacture and its use in hunting and
lts manufacture ana its use in nuntmg ana
conflict. On reaching the Northern Territory
the boomerang almost immediately loses its
.. ■ . 0 / . .
beauty, and becomes clumsy, oometimes it is a
f oo t longer than the Queensland weapon, and
also has an upturned hook at one end. Its course
• • • T . i i ,
1S va,ria-l>ly straight, hence, from a spectacu
point of view, its operations have no special in-
terest. The further West one travels the less is
seen of this weapon, until it is almost completely
lost sight of. But the Territory nigger knows ail
b t As he makes them, they are works
. t , .. ■ .
of art. Ihe productions of our own ancient
Britons are Brummagem alongside the beauti-
ful glass-beaded spears of the north and north-
west coast aborigines. Let a person imagine a
transparent rose-leaf, and he has a very good idea
of a ‘ g l ass spea r-head. A square gin-bottle
n & r • u . • i 4.
usually furnishes the material, the artist often
keeps the raised letter-work on the bottle
* n . fhe middle of his spear-head. I have
a beautiful specimen bearing the letters AV H
h thro P ugh the middle How the chipping
d « beats g me , and I could never find out
~ g i ass spears are mostly used in warfare; the
h d in % aria £ y breaks off in the victim’s A
f h t 4 es ison the weapon, the said
• j being accomplished by allowing the
e ] / rema f n in thf f carcase of a departed
CQmrade for a while . T l,e stone-headed and wire
° ™ raostlv used in hunting for food. I
P the niggers in the Territory doing great
tion among f t flock pigeons with an ordinary
{ N B % vire . the manufacture of
V wea pons is rapidly deteriorating. So
travellers now get into even the remote
f contill / t , all in quest of curio s,
h ; have acqu ired the habit of turning
7 Yu -A j
° Vid h P * 7 ’ *
lnee U 1 ‘
* * * . ..
“ Ruru ” : Forethought is not usually
reckoned a Maori virtue, but the Maori matron
displays it sometimes, F’rinstance, at the Eller-
she races (Auckland), lately, a gorgeous brown
female vision paced the lawn. Her silk skirt was
of that aggressive shade of pink which borders on
cerise. Her flannel jacket was the color of a
purple shriek. An emerald-green scarf was round
her throat, and a scarlet one floated airily from
the Panama hat. But the general effect was
marred by a bulky brown paper parcel carried
under one arm. The reason of the load appeared
later, when a heavy shower drove the crowd to
the shelter of the trees. Here the wahine publicly
divested herself of all her gorgeous upper raiment,
produced from her parcel a black stuff skirt and a
shocking hat, put them on in the full glare of
publicity, packed up her red and green helong-
ings, and once more faced the weather. That
visiting clerical potentate who once changed his
robes on the pavement in Sydney wasn’t a cir-
cumstance to the lady for calm publicity.
BALLADE OF BARRACKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For cricket dead, let fall no tender tear,
Another altar claims the oil and wine ;
The Pigskin God of Winter, He is here !
And now, with parted lips and eyes a-shine,
There runs in rapture to St. Rugby’s shrine
The Barraeker who, taking little reck,
Cries to the skies with speech incarnadine,
“Jump on 'is chest, an’ twist his blanky neck."
With shrieking joy he views the fray severe ;
The crackle of the dislocated spine,
The hanging scalp, the freshly severed ear,
Fill all his being with a joy divine.
To higher horrors all his thoughts incline ;
While grandstand weaklings shudder at the wreck
He gaily doth his campaign plan define :
“ Jump on ’is chest, an’ screw his blanky neck.”
The Referee, with vitriolic jeer,
He doth to hells quite fathomless assign,
When—checking Murder in her wild career —
The ruling whistle lifts its piercing whine ;
While from his soul, as from a noisome mine,
He digs out reeking curses by the peck,
And bellows fearsomely in frenzy fine,
“ Jump on ’is chest, an’ break his blanky neck.”
Envoy.
Blokes I Now the Maori from across the Brine
Approaches on the heaving steamer’s deck.
To bear our laurels back is his design,
“ Jump on ’is chest, an’ rend ’is blanky neck.”
QUEENSLAND.
MACHETE.


THOROUGH.
AN EXPERT GOES ROUND
THE WORLD.
Unless the Victorian Govern-
ment prohibits the importation
of the fruit which conveys the
fly, Victoria will know more
than it wants about this
orchard scourge long before
Mr. Froggatt returns from his
round-the-world tour.— Age.
The Man Beneath: "Help!
why don’t you help me?”
The Man Behind: " Don’t be
impatient—let us do things
thoroughly. I must find
out, first, the approved
way of rendering assist-
ance in a case like this.”
What with South Australia, the West,
and Mister Carruthers all "on to him,"
these sort of things in the daily papers
are not too good for Victoria’s nerves
All the newspaper sensations have
been happening in Victoria of late.
Here we have Hr. Carruthers and the
most famous beard fancier in N.S.W.
discussing this latest injustice to the
Ma State.
A SUCCESSFUL JOCK.
There has been a succession of race-
course calamities reported recently.
THE QUALITY OF MERCY.
fit heavy fraction out of our present
expenditure goes in giving eighteen
illegitimate children out of every hun-
dred a lingering death spread over six
miserable months.— Age.
Her Honof Judge Grundy : "As a
first offender, we let you off with
six months of life, but, if it occurs
again, we will make the sentence
longer.”
MODERN CONDITIONS.
Of course, owing to modern conditions, there was not the least
doubt that the masses were not content while they were hungry. — Argvs.
Fat : “ Ah, quite true ; It’s these pernicious modern conditions that'
make the masses dissatisfied with hunger. Things were differ*
ent in the good old times.”
BY HOBSON’S BAY.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY*
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
One day’s trial will convince you of the
soothing, cough-allaying, lung-healing power of
Angier’s Emulsion. It is pleasant to take and
aids digestion. Send 4d. postage for a free sample
bottle to the Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7
Barrack-street, Sydney.*
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
FILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Oout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, lie
Douloureux, Sciatica, Neu algia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are known as the
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and .in many case# mire in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at l/«, 2/b, and
5/- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the hole Proprietors and Manufacturers
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The violently British character of his com-
munications suggests that Melbourne Herald’s
“Special Commissioner” to the Imperial Confer-
ence ought to be known as Colonel Hoo-Reay.
Queensland’s J. G. Drake, pressman,
Senator, Attorney-General, and soldier, has, it is
gazetted, permission to retire from his life of
martial enterprise and still wear his uniform. So
Drake will have at least one coat that isn’t turned.
When he is not on his travels, Vic.
Premier Bent regularly carts home for Sunday
leading a bundle of the papers that are politically
opposed to him. Rather a mortifying way to
spend the Sabbath, but at least it gives the victim
a chance of learning something, which is more
than can be said for the Unpleasant Juddy After-
noon.
It took the late Hannah King Lethbridge,
of Bay of Islands, 91 years to get tired of Maori-
land, and she is entered on the page of fame as the
first white woman born in Geyserland. The field
of Waterloo was hardly tidied up when she
eventuated. Her father was chief officer of the
brig Active, which went to M.L. in 1814 with a
load of missionaries, whose descendants now have
their holy tentacles around territory that should
support thousands of small men. He tired of the
sea, and went to Sydney, where he married a Miss
Tollis, daughter of an army captain, and the pair
returned to the Bay of Islands, where the first
white girl-child was born.
“Madame 8.,” who was convicted in
Sydney, last December, of murder by means of an
illegal operation, and sentenced to imprisonment
for life, is dead, after six months’ gaol, spent in
the hospital.' The original sentence was death,
but the lady with the initial was evidently dying
on her own account, and the Law declined to
hurry the process. “ Madame,” to all intents and
purposes, received no punishment at all, as she
would have been in hospital anyhow ; still it is
hard to see what else the law could have done.
The only Australian Judge who had nerve enough
to recommend the hanging of a dying person (he
would have recommended the hanging of a dead
one if he thought it would do any good) is dead
himself now.
The last female of the Swan River (W.A.)
blacks died lately. She wasn’t even a queen, as
the ancient female black survivor is generally
said to be; on the contrary, she was, as she
admitted, a shockingly bad lot, even judged by
her own tribal laws ; and some of her quasi-matri-
monial experiences led to her hurried and pro-
longed absence from the Swan River haunts of
her people, which was probably why she was the
last of the Mohicans. According to. white-
pfeller notions also, she was a bad old lot, who
spent her last moments vigorously cursing every-
body who wouldn’t bring her beer. Her name
was Balbuk Yooreel, or “Fanny ” for short; and
Subiaco’s society people may now score it off their
visiting lists for good
A DOUBTFUL EXAMPLE.
LADY INTERVIEWER : “ And now, Professor,
what is your opinion of the deportment of
Australian women? ”
Bennett, M.L.A., up Durham (N.S.W.)
way, who was a portfolio-holder under Tvvaddell,
has been weighed in the balance, and found to go
only Boz. of Deform to the lb. So a Carrutliersite
is to be run against him. Local choice threatens
to fall on old Brown, who has been dug up some-
where in the electorate. Brown is an ancient
Parliamentary hand with frightful whiskers. His
name is H. H. Brown, called for short Hold Hairy
Brown.
Premier Price, on his way back to Adel-
aide from Brisbane, found time to look in at the
inter-State football match in Melbourne, S.A. v.
Victoria (Australian rules); but he had to leave
to catch the express, thereby missing the finest
finish on record. He told the reporters in Adel-
aide next morning that various Vic. legislators
had barracked for their own side ; “ but I think I
made more noise than a dozen of them while I
was there,” said Price with modest pride.
A young Adelaide lawyer, son of the
deceased veteran Villeneuve Smith, has had his
character grievously assaulted by a barmaid who
was giving evidence in the Criminal Court. He
was trying to show that she was unsober on a
given occasion, and she retorted with “You have
forgotten the time when you asked me if I would
like to have a drink with you, and I said to you
that I did not drink.” The shocked barrister
protested that he had never seen the lady before,
and offered to go into the box and swear to it.
But the Court had no time for this side issue ; so
the lawyer may go down to his grave under the
stigma of having once said, “Will you join us,
miss?” to a young lady behind a bar.
“ Thomas Clodd ” from Maoriland :
Likely that William Jones, Maoriland’s stop-gap Pre-
mier, who works harder and blows less than any other
M.L. Minister, will drop polities pretty soon. Fact is,
the straight-going Jones has been turned on too often to
do several men’s work, and he is now a mere case of
angina pectoris. It is pathetic, in the light of Jones’
break-up, that only a week or two ago he warned a mob
of school children that politics was merely “dead-sea
fruit, beautiful outwardly, but dust and disappointment
within.” The Tory press sneered volubly until the
wretched words ‘ heart-disease” were whispered. Jones
is the one man of the M.L. Ministry whom no one has
ever accused of deceit or duplicity, and it will be a hard
job for Ward to find anyone equally respectable for gap-
filling if William goes out of the political industry.
A Sydney firm of auctioneers is offering
for public sale a life assurance policy for £982 on
the life of Dan O’Connor, at present on tour, and
last heard of in Tipperary. The man who buys
the policy looks for his profit, of course, in the
insured’s early death. Till that happens he has
simply to pay premiums and keep on hoping.
Also he has to keep an eye on the insured, so that
he can prove his death. If the insured wanders
over the horizon of his friends, and dies at last
unidentified in unknown parts, the buyer may go
on paying premiums for ten years after he is dead,
and then have hard work to get the money. Of
course, Dan won’t do that; a man with such a
persuasive voice and such whiskers couldn’t be
lost. But Daniel is only 63, and he has just
dodged an earthquake, a burning city, and a fall-
ing hotel, without turning a hair.
Castlemaine claims that it possesses the
venerablest inhabitant in all Victoria—Joseph
Hicks, who is said to have just turned into the
102nd lap of his earthly race. Castlemaine has
to take'Joseph’s word for it to some extent, for
about 1806 birth records were very loosely
kept, and the race of quite reliable centen-
arians isn’t due for nearly 50 years yet.
Anyhow Joseph is said to have been at
Forest Creek since 1855, and in the ’6o’s of
last century he is alleged to have owned a
three-horse vehicle, which took prisoners from the
goldfields to Melbourne at £7 a head. Some of
them were hanged on arrival. Hanging didn’t
cost anything like £7 a head.
Carruthers is the most absolutely boss
Premier New South Wales has had since the days
of Parkes. It is said that he will not
allow any of his Ministers to spend
more than 2gd. without reference to
him, and. in Cabinet, Hogue, Lee, and
Moore, if they have any opinions,
keep them out of sight unless they
know they agree with the views of
Pretty Cocky. Even Wade hides
under the table when Carruthers
frpwns. (Waddell will probably crawl
under a chair.) Carruthers was
schooled by Parkes, and the old man
always declared there could only be
one opinion in his Cabinet, and that
opinion must be his own. Bruce
Smith and McMillan were trouble-
some, but Carruthers learnt his lesson
better than the others. And the
result only shows how violently a
futile opportunist can drive a team of
oxen to nowhere in particular. Car-
ruthers is a hard driver, who hasn’t
the faintest idea of his destination.
Melbourne’s champion revenue
provider— Samuel Pinnock — turned
up again at Port Melbourne Court,
the other morning, to pay fines for
offences committed vicariously—by his
employees, to wit. Samuel’s weakness
is sand—plain, yellow sand, belonging
to Edward VII.—which he persists in
removing without the owner’s consent.
Pinnock has paid about £1000 in fines,
and this would have bought about all
the sand in Bent’s electorate, but he
prefers to “shake” it and chance get-
ting caught. And chance has been a bad*friend
to Samuel.
Frank admission of one Richard Pearse, a
Ballarat city councillor : —
1 know I am an ignorant old fool.
It was this Pearse who was Mayor of Ballarat
when a banquet was given to Lord Tennyson, and
his offhand style of oratory kept the table in an
uproar. Mrs. Peacock tried in vain to restrain
her Alexander from letting off his historical
guffaw, and Lady Tennyson had tears in her eyes
when honest old Dick Pearse touched her on the
blue-blooded shoulder with his friendly paw and
remarked, with unction, “Me and ’er ladyship ’es
as thick es if we’d known each other orl our lives,
ain’t we, yer ladyship ?” Pearse wanted to run
for the State Parliament in the Anti-Sosh in-
terest, but only got three votes on the nomination.
They can have their picturesque funerals
even on the lonely fossiekers’ fields of the Far
North. The other day a tin-washer, a veteran of
70 named James Moodie, died on Gowrie Creek
(Q.); and his mates (as far as any fossicker ever
has mates) buried him in his battered sluice-box
in a grave dug on his claim. A worn-out old
mate, and his worn-out tools, and a worn-out
claim —there was a funeral for them all.
Divorce Court Justice Simpson (of N.S. W.)
is the only remnant of a band of gallants.who once
made Sydney “Block” (George-street and King-
street) a sort of local Rotten Row. When he and
Dailey and some of the other departed were young
bloods, “doing the Block ” was much more than a
mere" 1 ' walk round town,” as it is now. To watch
the excellently-groomed Judge strutting past the
Post Office or" along King-street is quite a lesson
in how it should be done. After he finished the
Crick-Willis trial at Darlinghurst'he took the first
tram to the city, and was quite the biggest man
on the Block that day. He doesn’t often miss
once round on a fine afternoon.
NO LINGUIST.
“ But why have you given up golf ? ”
“It's only temporarily. I’m going in for a cours
of bullock driving to make my vocabulary
last around the links.”
General Gordon, N.S.W. Commandant,
has two nicknames in the service. One is
“Maria,” but that is really one of his Christian
names—Joseph Maria. When he is not “Maria,”
he is “the Army.” The S. Australian Govern-
ment made him a Brigadier-General when the
Defence Force of that State consisted of few more
than himself and the barracks cat. When he is
neither “ Maria ” nor “ the Army,” he is “ G.—
Mark II.,” to distinguish him from the Inspector-
General, who is “ G. —Mark I.”
N.S.W. Entomologist Froggatt gets away
for 12 months to interview the insects of the
world. An inquiring little man is the Entomolo-
gist, and when he is in his office in the time-worn
Admiralty Stores at Circular Quay, the room con-
tains about as much knowledge regarding insects
as can be found in all the rest of Australia put
together. Froggatt is an enthusiast, and would
chase a fly right up to the Gulf if it were a new fiv.
And he always overtakes his fly in the end.
Jimmy Hogue, now N.S.W. Education
Minister, who has represented the Glebe electors
ever since he has been in Parliament, reckons he
holds the seat in the hollow of his paw. So when
he heard that a local person named Cole intended
to challenge his selection as the Deform candidate,
Jimmy smiled. Later on he heard that Cole was
a probable winner at the ballot. So Mr. Hogue
had to throw himself about violently, make
speeches, distribute handbills, and toil like any
common or backyard candidate. At the selection
he scraped home by a bare 18 votes. Machine
politics are going strong in N.S.W. these days,,
and the Deform Juggernaut nearly ran over
Hogue.
In the days when Dick O’Connor, father
of the High Court Judge, was Clerk of N.S.W.
Parliament, and Henry Parkes kept a shop in
Hunter-street, there was a certain link between
the two men—Parkes mended flutes badly, and
O’Connor blew through flutes moderately. O’Con-
nor had blown away some of the innards of his
pet flute, and Parkes botched it for a pecuniary
consideration. O’Connor’s feelings about Parkes’
work were too deep for words at the moment. A
few years later, when Parkes, M.L.A., signed the
roll for the first time, he glanced up at the indig-
nant Irishman. “You don’t remember me, I
suppose,” said Parkes. “Oh, don’t I,” said
O’Connor. “You’re the omadhaun that ruined
my flute for me.” The comparatively hairless
Parkes of those days said nothing. Neither his
whiskers nor his vocabulary were full-grown then.
A tale of the brush :—•
A kindly Australian artist of some distinction tells of
an interview he had with a broken brush. The brother
brush was a pavement specialist doing landscapes, ships,
and still-life studies on a Melbourne footpath. He was
very depressed. The Melbourne people had no apprecia-
tion of art, he said, and he had gathered only lOd. in
coppers for his day’s work. The artist was touched by the
woes of his humble brother. “ Extend your gallery,” he
said. “Give them something they'd like. Here, while
you’re working on that, I’ll sketch in a picture at the
other end.” The painter took a few chalks, and set to
work, and turned out quite a vivid color-sketch of two
footballers jumping for the ball. The big man was rather
proud of his work. He was anxious to see how the public
would take to it. The pavement specialist arose and
examined it Critically. Then he took his rag and started
to demolish the drawing. “ Pretty good for an amateur,”
he said. “ But, of course, I can’t leave it. A man in my
jine can’t afford to trifle with his reputation.”
The N.S.W. State election casts its shadow
ahead. 01.1 members and fresh candidates can
now be seen promenading in public with their
wives, and even (in desperate cases) carrying a
baby. They stand up a good deal in trains to
give a lady a seat (especially if the tram is robing
through the candidate’s own constituency). They
help ladies and children into trams and trains. If
the candidate has a friend with him in a public
vehicle he is often heard discussing serious topics
with that friend, denouncing vice and speaking
highly of simple home virtues. His boots begin
to creak as he enters church (this attracts atten-
tion), and he drops his coin into the plate from a
greater elevation (this, makes it bounce). Also
Abbott, of Wingen’s burning mountain, has
started writing letters to the papers, and Abbott,
of Wingen, is a sure election barometer.
There was a German candi-
date among the crowd which stood
lor one of the Downs (Q.) constitu-
encies this election, and his ad-
dresses were an oasis in a wilder-
ness of brown, dusty “blather.”
After one speech, he announced
that he would
answer any ques-
tion. The first
query was, “Are
you in favor of
the Bible in
State schools ? ”
“Efery dime,”
said Hans Bock.
“It vill shtop
dose blokes say-
in’ ‘Gor blime.
IShtrike me pink!
Shtrike me
blankety, blank,
blank, blank ’
(he didn’t say
‘ blank ’”) unt all
dose oder pletty
svear vorts dey
say veil dey are
bei me on Sun-
days. I wote for
him efery dime
alretty.” The
second problem
was, “Do you
know a cattle
tick from a bed
tick when you
see them?”
Efery dime. Unt
alzo, ven I looks
me arount here,
I see der differ-
ence between a
cattle tick unt a
pletty lunatic. I
vill not reply to
any oder qves-
tion. Here is too
many chumps
here. All dose
votin’ for me can
holt up deir
hauts.” He care-
fully counted
the hands being held up, and said, " Dere is a
mayority of votes for me here, uut all der rest of
you can go to hell alretty.” He was third, and a
good third, on a list of five, on election day !
And he deserved to be first.
William Zeal, the ancient Victorian Tory
politician, has been conducting a fierce contro-
versy with a parson member of the Queen’s Statue
Committee, re the infamous conduct of the com-
mittee in not giving him a front place high up at
the unveiling of the image. His claim is based
on the fact that he contributed more than some of
those who were quite conspicuously situated, full
in the eye of the camera. Never did the ArgOs
permit a more ignoble controversy to leave a
muddy footprint in its columns, but the argument
at least shows how little mind is necessary tc
make a successful President of the Leg. Council,
and in making manifest the ease with which Zeal
outruns discretion.
Perth papers record the transfer of a wine
and beer license from J. M. Lofthouse to G. F.
Wheatley. Latter, only five years ago, was presi-
dent of the Westralian Methodist Conference.
He retired from the ministry to go into the land-
agency business, and in the course of four strenuous
years he has been orchardist, secretary to the
National Political League, Parliamentary candi-
date, boss of a printing establishment, restaura-
teur, lay preacher and publican ! Presumably he
has now found his vocation. Wheatley’s pre-
decessor in the Conference was T. A. James, of
giddy memory and parts unknown —the gentle-
man who wasn’t drowned, but merely went on
a whirl with a girl.
Died at Casino (N.S.W.), on June 2,
allegedly aged 97, T. H. Green, who took a
prominent part in the foundation of Brisbane,
and was a shareholder in the first steamship
company formed at Moreton Bay. For the last
15 years or so he lived a hermit’s life at Casino.
THE FREE AUTOGRAPH.
Alfred William Eustace, from Chiltern (Vic.), was the
first to use gum-leaves as a medium for painting dis[?]
scenes. Specimens of his art on gum-leaves s nt. to the
late Queen Victoria, the Emperor of Germany, and the
Czar of Russia, were acknowledged by autograph letters.
But why trouble about yum-leaves when a hand
painted bomb would be equally effective !
“ 1i.8.” writes :
Died at Melbourne, the other day, Lieut.-Colonel Niue!
William Kelly, a big, fine, picturesque sort of soldier who
had seen service in S’Africa, and who knocked down land
with a little hammer in Melbourne when the war was
over. He began to battle in Melbourne when he was 12
years old, put up a plucky fight, and made a place f< r
ids firm of Carney and Kelly. In conversation he had
a queer and oft-repeated mannerism : “D’ye understand
what I mean?” and this he tagged to the simplest of
questions. He had been under sentence of death for the
last rear, ever since his first apoplectic stroke ; but he re-
mained active and debonair to the day before his last.
He turned o\lt to Ricardo’s funeral, and looked big and
strong, but almost too large for his uniform. The four
hours’ march to Kew cemetery may have contributed
to the second stroke ; often there is nothing so fatal to
mourners as a funeral. A good man and a fine fellow was
Nigel William Kelly. Peace be \> it.h him !


Cream Separator.
During the last few years MILK SEPARATORS have been very extensively
used fey Dairy Farmers. The reason lies with the con-
siderable advantages derived from the use of this machine.
Flfi
m
'!
TT is now-a-days Simply Impossible to Profitably Work a dairy farm Without a Good
Milk Separator, and no farmer should be without a BALANCE.
The BALANCE separates, in the Shortest Space of Time, whilst the milk is still
warm, i.e., immediately after milking. Whereas, with the old pan method of standing,
the milk, which has first of all to be cooled and freed from air, and then stood for days
in large rooms with specially regulated temperature, and then left to separate by itself,
considerable time is lost, and the profit to the farmer reduced to a minimum.
It is claimed by the makers that, by using the BALANCE for separating- milk,
an average increase of 10 per pent, in the quantity of Butter may be expected, in com-
parison with that obtained by ordinary methods, and the increase may be even as much
as 15 or 20 per cent.
The scale of separation given below is understood to be for Milk Direct From The
Cow (as used for tests in the laboratories) and not for milk which has been transported.
The results become shialler the longer the milk has been standing, and the farther it
has been carried.
ķ
GREEN BONE GUTTERS
For the Good of the Poultry Farmer
Boos CGttsrs
are excellent helps.
©
I
■a
f
m
Green Bone Cutters have made a firm and lasting- place
for themselves in the yards of leading practical poultry-
men. The successful ppultryman who does not have a
Bone-Cutter is an exception. A Green Bone Cut-tei v\il
enable you to so feed your hens that they will join the
ranks of the layers, and it will be odds on that you II have
plenty of eggs.
The STEARN’S GREEN BONE CUTTERS
vantage. Following are prices
uwe many points of advai
if the numbers we stock .
No. 6—On High Stand .. .. • • -
No. o—Without Stand, to attach to 1 ost or
Table •• •• • • • •*
No. 2—For attaching to Post or Table
No. 4 „ »» ’>
701-
55/-
55/-
35/-
No. 3—On High Stand, geared for power, only
one-horse power required to drive it .
WilSoo’S
<Sre€D Boi)e Cotter aijd
Farnj Mill Conjbiijcd.
BROS
BOOKHOOI
No. 3 Green Bone Cutter and Farm Mill Combined, as
illustrated, for horse power; weight, 310 lbs.
Capacity, 600 to 1,000 lbs. of bone in 10 hours ;
grain, sto 12 bushels per hour. Can be run with
a 1,2 or 4-horse power . £8 fOs.
WiiSoQ’S
Greet) Boi>e Cotters, &c-
This well-known maker’s Cutters are stocked in various sizes.
The Daisy Green Bone Cutter.
Wilson’s Daisy Green Bone Cutter 551-
No. 4—Wilson’s Crushing Mill, on High Stand .. 30/-
No. 2£ —Wilson’s Combined Grit Mill and Corn
Cracker .. .. 70/-
Mann’s Green Bone Cutters —
No. 7 70/-
No. 8 £6/10/-
Patent Fastened Egg Boxes, with Lining —
To hold 1 doz. Eggs .. 3d. each ; 30/- per gross.
To hold .. .. 12 18 24 36 doz.
1/6 1/9 2/- 2/6 each.
Fillers, for Boxes to hold 36 doz. Eggs .. Bd. set.
Poultry Baskets, Round or Square 4/6, 5/3 each.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
I * VPC| 1 Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’B English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COUMN
The one cheerful feature about Westralian
finance is the size of the State’s sinking funds, for w hich
Australian Treasurer Bigjobn Forrest, its first Premier,
was responsible. For its loans, as a general thing, a 1 per
cent, sinking fund has been provided—substantial, but
not too much, considering that heaps of the borrowed
money has been spent on goldfields works, and the best
goldfield eventually becomes nothing more than a place
with a lot of valueless holes in it. When the Common-
wealth takes over the State debts, the Treasurer’s idea is
to provide for a sinking fund of £ per cent. ; and as
Westralia isn’t as “ flush ” as it was, and is strongly dis-
inclined to tax itself, and would be very glad, therefore,
if it could dodge paying J per cent, on its loans, it
would cordially approve of the transfer of the
debts on Treasurer Bigjohn’s terms, but for one thing—
it doesn’t want to be checked in its future borrowing
madness. Of course, the Westralian politician who knows
anything at all about the matter knows that the Com-
monwealth will have to take over the debt with the
sinking fund condition attached, and that, unless all the
lending Cohens agree, the sinking fund can’t any more
be cut down than the rate of interest can be ; but the
Westralian politicians, egged on by the Government
Statist, propose a little juggle—that the State should pay
only J per cent., and that the Commonwealth should
advance enough to make up the usual 1 per cent, pro-
vided for (in a few cases it is more). For last year it
would have worked out this way :
Provided by State .. .. .. £87,792
Advanced by Commonwealth ... 121,700
Total Sinking Fund .. .. £209,492
After the sinking funds Originally contracted for had
paid off the debt, the State would, of course, have to go
on paying back to the Commonwealth the money ad-
vanced. It is another way, in short, of borrowing over
one-half of the sinking fund ; and it is very like playing
the confidence trick with Mr. J. Bull Cohen.
The folly of any such proceeding would be less
the Commonwealth’s than Westralia’s. The State has
suffered already, and must go on suffering, through pro-
\ iding not for too heavy a sinking fund, but for too light
a one. It is the, no doubt just, boast of “ barrackers” for
Bewick, Moreing and Co. that of some 20 mines which
obey are controlling in Westralia, only two would be
running were it not for the reduction in costs which
they have effected. Dividends (paid nearly all to per-
sons outside the State) are in the aggregate pretty well
maintained, but the output of gold is slumping horribly.
The richest of the cream has already been skimmed ; and
now costs—the money spent mainly in the country—
have to be cut, and cut, and cut. While the cream is
being skimmed, and huge profits made, the sinking fund
should be very high—not 1 per cent., but in many cases
(as Bigjohn Forrest saw) 3 per cent. The men who run
the mines, when they spend money on works, provide
often for a contribution out of profits of as much as 10
per cent, for the return of capital; and the State’s works
are, in many cases, no more permanent. If, then, Wes-
tralia had demanded from the first that out of its riches a
substantial sinking fund should be provided, it would
have less to worry about now. Yet even the present
is richer by far than the future is likely to be.
This mere handful of mines cannot go on
paying over £2,000,000 a year in dividends. While
the present riches last, therefore, the 1 per cent,
sinking fund (or, in a few cases, more) should not be
monkeyed with. It is not too much now; it was too
little in the past. Even a 1 per cent, sinking fund in-
vested at per cent, will take nearly 44 years to wipe
out a debt, and it is a mighty good goldfield that will last
anything like 44 years worked as the modern engineer
works it, with shafts rushing down 200 ft. a year. The
less the present has to carry, the more the future will
have to bear—the future that will be left with the
skimmed milk while the present has still some cream to
feed upon. Even if Westralia presses its proposal, then,
the Commonwealth should not listen to it.
* * » m
“W. Sandison” writes; “Re Goldsbrough,
Mort and Co., Ltd. Bulletin (a3/6/’O7), in its criticism of
this co., remarks upon the leniency of the debenture-
holders. As you say, there may be an explanation.
Three trustees, I know, were appointed, who were sup-
posed to represent the debenture-holders ; but, although
I was a creditor of this company, I had no voice in their
appointment, neither do I know when they were ap-
pointed, nor who appointed them. What I do know is
that one of these trustees was a large shareholder in
Goldsbrough’s. Another had been Goldsbrough’s agent
prior to the first reconstruction. They had been in
receipt of large remuneration from the funds of the
company. These gentlemen may nevertheless have
watched the debenture-holders’ interests; yet I, for
my own part, would not have chosen them for
such a work. I also note, after the latest
reconstruction, that large blocks of debenture-stock were
held in the name of one of these trustees and others. 1
also note that Goldsbrough's in 1902-3 bought a large
quantity of debentures, and it would be interesting to
know whom they bought them from. As regards the
latest reconstruction, had the facts been put before the
Court, it would never have sanctioned it. For years I
and others have endeavored to induce our Government to
appoint a commission to inquire into the working of
Dibbs’ Reconstruction Act, with the view of probing the
methods of some of these reconstructed companies, but
so far without success.”
“A Goldsbrough-Mort Creditor,” writing on
the same subject: “In the valuable summary of Golds-
brough, Mort and Co.’s reconstructions (B. 13/6/’O7), while
the fact is made clear enough that the shareholders were
relieved of a heavy liability, it is not, perhaps, sufficiently
stressed that the debenture-holders were made to suffer
severely by the 1901 reconstruction, 40 per cent, of the
B stock being then cancelled, representing, in round
numbers, £500,000. The whole transaction has been dis-
creditable, and must affect the opinion which is held of
us in England, where most of the debentures were located.
It practically amounted to some of the wealthiest men in
Australia getting rid of their own liability, and then
tearing up the company’s promise to pay.”
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd. :
Provided Added to
Ex- forDepre- Insurance
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Fuad.
1896 £392,705 £193,941 £78,180 £120,584
1897 397,012 196,092 80,403 120,517
1898 ,412,898 220,073 79,996 112,829
1899 409,744 209,907 75,832 124,005
1900 406,428 218,526 77,735 67,969 42,193
1901 412,816 226,783 79,577 106,456
1902 429,263 226,512 81,002 121,749
1903 438,825 236,874 87,731 114,220
1904 454,758 248,313 95,175 111,270
1905 461,663 281,453 101,078 50,000 29,132
1906 466,126 335,946 104,564 25,616
The claims during the year have been extraordinarily
heavy, and this has not been due to anything very ex-
cessive in the way of surrenders. Whether the mor-
tality experience has been less favorable than the expec-
tation will not, however, be ascertainable till the next
actuarial investigation and report. The largest increase
in outgoings has been under the heading of matured
endowments, and those are claims which have possibly
arisen through effluxion of time. The expenses have not
been small either, so the additions to funds have been
very poor. In fact, allowing for £34,330 which has been
written off the Investment Fluctuation Reserve during
the year, the funds have actually diminished, which is a
rare experience for an Australian office. The chances
are, however, that the £34,330 written off the Investment
Fluctuation Reserve had really disappeared before—not
very many investments depreciated last year—so that the
writing-off makes the office no poorer. The transactions
in connection with this reserve are shown hereunder :
Investment Fluctuation Fund.
Written Written
Off. Balance. Off. Balance.
1897 £8147 £39,718 1902 £10,789 £85,967
1898 4515 35,203 1903 6254 79,713
f 396) 1904 5855 73,858
1899 I Added V 102,776 ( 8809)
(_ 67,969) 1905 / Added V 115,049
1900 3443 99,333 ( 50,000)
1901 2577 96,756 1906 34,330 80,719
Besides this £34,330 an amount of £2178 W'as w’ritten off
office property —which no doubt includes furniture, etc.,
—and this amount is reckoned in with the expenses.
As for the expenses, this shows 10 years’ ex-
perience reckoned on one basis :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1897 .. £2O 5 0 p.c. 1902 .. £lB 17 5 p.c.
1898 .. 19 7 6 „ 1903 .. 19 19 10 „
1899 .. 18 10 1 „ 1904 .. 20 18 7 „
1900 .. 19 2 6 „ 1905 .. 21 17 10 „
1901 .. 19 5 6 „ 1906 .. 22 8 8 „
But the position is really better than that, because a
good deal more new business is now being secured.
Assuming that the old or renewal business cost 7 per
cent, of premiums to manage (it probably cost a bit more
in an office of this size), then the new business last year
cost 173 per cent, of the new premiums received, whereas
five years ago the cost was 231 per cent., and 10 years ago
it was 230 per cent. But, despite the improvement
shown, the figures are still much too high. Reckoning
on this basis, from 130 to 150 per cent, of first year’s pre-
miums ought to be the limit of the cost of new business ;
and there are offices that have got it down below' 100 per
cent.
Unfortunately the office does not atone for too
heavy costs by high interest earnings :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1899 .. £3 19 4 per cent. 1903 .. £3 19 8 per cent.
1900 .. 31711 „ 1904 ..414
1901 .. 317 11 „ 1905 .. 317 11
1902 .. 319 4 „ 1906 .. 318 1
The official report deducts the Investment Fluctuation
Reserve from the funds, and shows the earnings as though
they were wholly derived from only the Insurance Fund ;
but there seems to be nothing whatever to be said in
favor of that system. It merely has the effect of inflating
the return. If the Investment Fluctuation Fund is an
actual reserve, then it is represented by assets, and those
assets are earning interest just as much as the assets re-
presented by the Insurance Fund. The return is dis-
tinctly poor. The trouble seems to lie in the dispropor-
tionate amount of freehold and leasehold property
held—no less than £786,068, or nearly 26 per cent,
of the entire assets, while “ Government and other
debentures ” represent less than 12 per cent. In
1893 the “freeholds and leaseholds” item represented
just over £500,000, so it looks from that, as well as from
the interest return, as though a good deal of the property
dates back to the days of boom values. Banks, finding
themselves in the same position, have been able to unob-
trusively lop off some of the boom value by applying the
surplus profits of extra-good half-years to the purpose ;
hut the insurance office can’t do much in that way—it
makes practically no profits (apart from sales of securi-
ties) that it can avoid showing. - And if it applies those
profits to writing-down purposes, the bonuses must
suffer. Still, if these reflections are not very cheerful, it
can at least be remembered that the recent course of
property values, in Australia at least, has been all in the
office’s favor; moreover, the progress made in securing
new business at smaller cost than hitherto ought to make
figures look a good deal better in the future, when this
new business will be old or renewal business, and won’t
cost much to manage.
* * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Nov., 1901 £5139 5 per cent. = £3991 £ll4B £29,167
May, 1902 4472 5 „ „ 3991 481 29,648
Nov., 1902 4479 5 „ „ 3991 483 30,136
May, 1903 4908 5 „ „ 3991 917 31,053
Nov., 1903 4699 5 „ „ 3991 708 31,761
May, 1904 5247 6 „ „ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904 5438 6 „ „ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905 5291 6 „ „ 4789 502 33,370
Nov., 1905 5752 6 „ „ 4789 963 34,333
„ loon j 5696 6 ~ ~ 4789 1 om
May, 1906 -j Written off £lOOO / ~ 34 > 240
Nov., 1906 6249 6 „ „ 4789 1460 35,700
May, 1907 9077 7 „ „ 5587 3490 39,190
The spring in the profits is remarkable. Ever since the
troubles in the early ’nineties this bank has kept its divi-
dend fairly low, and probably it has thus been able to get
its book values down to bedrock. In the present state of
Australasian prosperity sales of most properties are pos-
sible ; and it may be that this hank has realised some
securities well above the written-down values. Certainly
ordinary banking business has been most profitable
lately; but not so much more profitable during the past
six months as to account for all the improvement shown
above. Nor do the detailed figures of the balance-sheet
otherwise explain matters, though they do show a sub-
stantial business expansion:—
May, 1906. May, 1907.
Notes in circulation .. £60,365 £64,535 Inc., £4,170
Bills, etc. .. .. 14,435 10,855 Dec., 3,580
Deposits at interest .. 254,725 245,929 Dec., 8,796
Deposits, free .. .. 280,851 310,375 Inc., 29,524
Liquid assets .. .. 223,076. 174,525 Dec., 48,551
Advances .. .. 550,404 630,537 Inc., 80,133
Premises, etc 28,964 27,904 Dee., 1,060
Outstanding features here are the large proportion of
deposits not carrying interest, and the increase in ad-
vances. The bank is now working up to the full extent
of its visible resources. In spite of the large proportion
of call money, only 27 per cent, of its liabilities to the
public are represented by liquid assets. Many bankers
w'ould not venture that far in ordinary times. True, the
public is very well protected on account of the large
capital in proportion to debt; for £1 of the shareholders’
money in the business, there is only £3 ss. of the public’s,
as against between £7 and £8 in the case of some of the
big Australian banks. It is on this account that the
profits have been comparatively small in spite of the very
large proportion of the whole resources that are put to
use. On the basis of capital (£152,040) and reserves,
recent profits have been as follows :
Nov., 1903 .. £5 2 8 p.c. Nov., 1905 .. £6 4 1 p.c.
May, 1904 .. 514 2 „ May, 1906 .. 6 2 3 „
Nov., 1904.. 518 1 ~ Nov., 1906.. 614 2 „
May, 1905.. 514 5 „ May, 1907 .. 913 5 „
The bank has its head office in Launceston, and the bulk
of its business comes from the north and from the mining
districts on the West Goast; and the activity in the latter
parts, due to the phenomenal prices of metals, has no
doubt also had its effect on profits. Unfortunately, it is
not an effect that is at all likely to be permanent, in the
present degree, at any rate.
» * * *
The Argus Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898 .. £223 Nil £lBl £42 £1689
1899 .. 198 Nil 339 1548
1900 .. 472 Nil 440 32 1580
1901 .. 1275 Nil 1762 1093
1902 .. 1494 3 per cent. = £505 1113 969
1903 .. 1607 3 „ „ 505 963 139 1108
1904 .. 1466 3 „ „ 505 973 1096
1905 .. 1416 3 „ „ 505 980 1027
1906 .. 1332 4 „ „ 673 398 261 1288
1907 .. 1700 5 „ „ 841 522 337 1625
There is always some doubt about this society’s figures,
because repairs and additions are apparently charged both
to contingent reserve and to profit and loss account
direct. In the foregoing, the amount by which the con-
tingent reserve has been reduced has been added to the
amount charged to profit and loss account for repairs and
additions, and the lump has been treated as written
off. The recent history of the society is further traced
in the following:—
1900. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Deposits .. ..£10,153 £14,455 £14,598 £22,382
Overdraft .. .. 3,054 25
Due on mortgage .. 4,467 8,204 8,204 8,204
Cash balance .. .. 1,737 6,069
Advances .. .. 35,305 38,649 40,813 42,665
Interest earnings .. 1,530 2,991 3,017 3,566
The capital is £16,825 ; so the deposits now considerably
exceed the capital. Advances have not, how ever, kept
pace w'ith the growth of deposits, so that £5OOO of the
borrowed money is itself on fixed deposit; and there
isn’t much in that. Like several others among the build-
ing societies, the Argus can command more deposits
than it can find immediate customers for ; and that,
and the steady increase of borrow’ers, seem to
point to a revival of building-society business.
For many years after “ the boom ” practically no building
was done in suburban Melbourne ; now, though the jerry
speculator hasn’t yet turned up to any extent worth men-
tioning, there is again a fair amount of the other sort of
building in progress, and this other sort is the only sort
w'ith which the building society has any right to interest
itself. Probably the average Melbourne society has
learned that lesson by heart; if it has, it can look forward
to a better time than it has had for the past 14 years.
• • *
The Zinc Corporation, Ltd., formed in 1905
to make millions out of the zinc in the Broken Hill tail-
ings and ore: —
Written
Loss. Off. Deficit.
Feb., 1906 .. £4,499 £4,499
Aug., 1906 .. 7,981 12,480
Reserves.
Premiums on new shares, £28,333 15,853
Deficit.
Feb., 1907 .. 13,841 £28,333 26,321
With which this may be read :
Capital. Liabilities.
Feb., 1906 .. £240,000 .. £11,631
Aug., 1906 .. 292,453 .. 150,360
Feb., 1907 '.. 373,689 ' .. 144,769
The liabilities at the end of February were as follows :
Block 10 Co. (for purchased tailings), £111,429 ; sundries,
£23,506 ; net overdraft, £9011; interest, £823. In addi-
tion there are large contingent liabilities in connection
with contracts made with Block 14, the British, and South
cos. ; if these contracts are not carried out, the Zinc Cor-
poration forfeits £22,500 plus interest, which amount has
been put up, and is included at present as an asset. Of
the capital so far raised, and apart from the £22,500 just
mentioned, £334,712 is represented by “ tailings dumps
and purchase consideration account.” “ Purchase con-
sideration ” is represented on the other side by 80,000 £1
shares “ paid up otherwise than in money”—apparently
the little bit of fat which the men who strike these happy
ideas for making millions reserve for themselves without
any base cash consideration. In construction and equip-
ment £78,570 has already gone, railways and rolling
stock have cost £8687, and £27,910 covers machinery and
stores in hand and in transit. Nobody can accuse
the co. of wasting time. It had the money
or the credit, it believed the metal w r as
there, the price of zinc was extra-good, and it
sailed in, at first rather triumphantly, later on with
much more diffidence. And nobody can . ccuse the
promoters either of not, at the outset, believing thoroughly
in their scheme. The angry people are those who, mis-
led by the early enthusiasm, rushed the shares up to a
large premium. At the end of February of this year the
shares were 375. They are now quoted from London at
12s. 6d. buyer, and it is still only June.
Unfortunately, t he co. is not yet out of its troubles,
by a long way. It was established on a basis which
almost compelled it to look for big profits ; so it turned
aside almost contemptuously from the processes w'hich
for years past had been bringing in a little profit to the
Sulphide Corporation, Block 10, and, to a smaller extent,
other Broken Hill cos. Its promoters had, no doubt,
been misled by tall, loose talk on the part of some B.H.
metallurgists visiting London. Those visitors deserv e much
in tie way of forgiveness ; for at a time when there w as a
chorus of’ Stinking Pish they apparently tried to counter-
balance things by ~ .ooping joyfully of the little things
they knew about. And apparently the man on the other
side, used to the Australian who said the worst things of
his country, mistook these for the same sort. Hence the
trouble wliich they subsequently struckin vast quantities
where they had expected nothing but smooth sailing.
Now', having learned something (at a cost of, perhaps,
£75,000), the co. goes to work in a much more sober
frame of mind, and there are plenty of reasons why it
should succeed in a measure. At least three cos. have made
profits out of “ zincs,” and the Sulphide Corporation is
at this moment making probably from 12s. 6d. to 15s. per
ton, or, if it isn’t now, it know's pretty well that it will
shortly be able to. The Zinc Corporation will, of course,
have to pay for the tailings (about ss. per ton) out of what
it makes ; but even then the margin is good so long as
metal prices keep good.
* * » •»
The future of the spelter (zinc) market is the
same large mystery as the future of the other metal
markets. At present the price is about £26 per ton.
That is very much above the average of the past
25 years. Previous to 1905 the year’s average had in only
one year of the 25 gone beyond £24 ; and in 13 years it
was below £lB. In 1895 it was £l4 12s. 2d. Still, for the
past 10 years the spelter market has been firm, and the
average for a year has never gone below £l7. With the
generally higher level of prices now prevailing (due to
the bigger gold output, or something else), nothing very
shocking in the way of a slump need be expected, unless
the metallurgists make some very startling discovery.
And if they do, then, if the Zinc Corporation has the use
of the discovery, a fall in price won’t matter so very
much.
* * * *
Some Westralian results for May :
Value
Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Horseshoe .. . . .. £52,853 £21,091 46/-
I van hoe 43,662 21,022 45/2
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 30,006 16,187 54/2
Great Fingall .. .. 35,057 13,805 31/5
Kalgurli 25,397 11,892 58/-
Associated Northern .. 14,126 9,809 80/6
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 18,474 4,714 27/10
Associated.. .. .. 19,103 4,165 38/6
South Kalgurli .. .. 12,457 2,739 28/7
Lake View Consols .. 13,575 1,502 23/7
Mararoa .. .. .. 1,617 500 37/-
Boulder Main Reef .. 3,216 65 22/-
Kalgurli’s profit for the current month should show a
substantial increase on May figures, as the new mill en-
gine is now at work. The Mararoa figures given above
are exclusive of lldwt. in tailings.
* * * *
Principal dividends paid by Westralian gold-
mining cos. to 31st May last: —Boulder Prop., £2,447,425 ;
Horseshoe, £2,355,000; Oroya-Brown Hill, £1,898,741 ;
Ivanhoe, £1,768,750 ; Fingall, £1,475,000; Perseverance,
£1,251,250; Kalgurli, £495,000; Associated Northern.
£490,000 ; Sons of Gwalia, £425,675.
South Kalgurli goes from bad to worse in depth.
At 1200 ft. thereare a few small, payablepatehes sandwiched
in between big blanks, but at 1500 ft. it looks as if there were
going to be one long, continuous blank and no patches.
Hope Nicholson is having a hard struggle to maintain a
7dwt. extraction ; and unless the West (Morty’s) lode,
which is opening up fairly’ well above 840 ft., comes to the
rescue, he will have to “ sky the towel ” bef re long. The
treatment plant has been laid up for repairs, so there will
be about 1400 tons less treated this month, and 700 tons
less in July.
* * * *
Resources of Oroya-Brown Hill and Associated
Northern (W.A.) are being conserved for all they are
worth, on account of the rapid depletion of the rich pipe
of ore, and a commendable desire to make it go as far as
possible. Oroya-Browm Hill should produce £30,000
worth of gold monthly for the next three years—equal to
30s. per share in dividends; after that it may have to take
a back seat among the big producers. The Associated
Northern is at present making a profit of about £10,500
on an 80s. extraction ; but a drop to 605., or thereabouts,
is inevitable before the year closes. The mine should run
for two years on this latter grade, and then it will gra-
dually snuff out. Both cos. have large cash reserves,
while in addition Oroya-Brown Hill has a valuable asset
in 70,000 Oroya-Black Range shares.
* * * *
First clean-up from the new mill on the Ivanhoe
Junction, Kalgoorlie(W.A.), turns out the expected fiasco.
As usual, the plant is blamed; in this case the gold isalleg d
to have disappeared “down a crack in the battery.”
Another yarn is that the cyanide vats leaked and allowed
the gold solution to run to waste. The fact is, the mine
hasn’t any payable ore, and the plant—an eccentric ami
decrepit-looking thing—was not warranted, and should
never have been erected. Over £50,000 has been frittered
away on this wild cat. It has produced no payable gold,
and it is unlikely that it ever will.
* * * * .
Great Fingall (W.A.) shows an improvement
at 1000 ft. from shaft in the No. 13 level, north end, where,
for 73ft., the ore has averaged about £2 per ton. It may
be only a “ flash in the pan,” but it looks promising.
Murchison Associated, Ltd. (W. A.), is try ng to
engineer another reconstruction, making the filth or
thereabouts. The present scheme is to raise £27,500 by
a shilling assessment, and keep 50,000 shares (£12,500) in
reserve. The co. has been kept alive for years past by
reconstructions, the circulation of taradiddles about its
prospects, and the occasional publication of line drawings
representing the property to be a next-door-but-oue
neighbor to the Great Fingall, and to have the continua-
tion of its shoot. As the two mines are over a mile apart,
and as the Murchison Associated has less chance of
getting the Fingall reef than its bottom level has of being
struck by lightning, the thing has been scandalous. The
co. has its office in London.
* * * *
On 31st March last, Golden Ridge (W.A.) was
estimated to have enough ore in sight to keep 20 head of
stamps running at least 12 months. Reported since that
large additions have been made to reserves. The direc-
tors anticipate that an eighteen-penny dividend will be
declared in August, and hope for quarterly’ distributions
of the same amount. As no mention is made of building up
a reserve fund, the inference is that the Ridge authorities
intend to boost shares by dividing profits as soon as they'are
earned. The Golden Pole people did this ; but the here-
after came sooner than was expected, and brought with
it a big slump in shares and the ruin of persons who were
confiding enough to believe the gaudy yarns spun to
them, those who are tempted to buy Ridges at the pre-
sent price should remember Poles. Also they might
profitably reflect that the mine stands by itself in an
unproved locality, and has only been partly prospected
to a vertical depth of 300 ft. If values gave out at the
next level (and, unfortunately, quartz reefs have a knack
of becoming unpayable at shallow depths in the West)
the Ridge will fizzle. For the present, however, every-
thing in the garden’s lovely; and shareholders aston-
ished the newspaper reporters at the recent half-yearly
meeting by clinking glasses, instead of squabbling and
inviting each other to “ come outside ” as of yore.
* * * *
The Phillips River copper district (W.A.) is
doing little more than mark time until the railway from
Hopetoun Harbor comes along, when it is locally ex-
pacted that 3 per cent, ore will show a profit, though
that, of course, depends on the price of copper. The
best way to develop the field would be to form properties
into groups and work them on a large scale, as Kaufman
is doing. Leaseholders, however, do not seem to think
so, to sit down and ask prohibitive prices for
individual surface shows. And buyers are not rushing
small, isolated surface shows.
•x * * *
Meekatharra (the only goldfield in W.A. where
working prospectors have bought and erected mills out
of profits) is agitating for 23 miles of railway to connect
it with Nannine. Hitherto, stiff cartage rates for timber
and fuel have been the camel blocking Meekatharra’s
track to glory, and railway facilities would, so to speak,
get rid of the camel. Big bodies of schist streaked with
rich quartz leaders occur in this district, and small for-
tunes have been made working these leaders and leaving
the schist alone. Meekatharra has not yet been proved
in depth, though ; and, judging by the character of
its formations, it is doubtful whether it will successfully
pass this test. , * #
Dummying is said to have, become a fine art at
Greenbushes tinfield (W.A.). Alleged that most of the
land is held without registration, and the dodges for
shepherding areas are said to well deserve a chapter in an
encyclopaidia of bluff and imposition. Apart from that
question, A. E. Morgans, of Perth, and Frank Moss, of
the Kalgurli, have acquired most of the good things on
this field ; and if values hold down, and are equal to ex-
pectations, big fortunes will be made by these specu-
lators.
* * * *
The May crushing from the Mararoa, Norse-
man (W.A.), was 875 tons for 4810 z., worth 665. 9d. per
oz. The reef, which is big, has been proved to a depth
of 350 ft. on the underlay. This is equal to 230 ft. vertical.
The management estimates that there ure 30,000 tons of
navable ore in sight; also that when a cyanide plant is
erected, in three months a profit of between £lOOO and
£l5OO will be earned monthly. Meantime ore treatment
is being carried on, and calls are being made to help pay
the balance of the purchase money, which is due at the
beginning of August. # *
Bewick, Moreing, and Co. have abandoned the
option taken in January over the Sirdar leases at Magnet
(W.A.). An expenditure of £7OOO revealed fair prospects,
ZINCS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ At an extraordinary meeting of the Zinc Corporation,
a resolution to alter the articles of association so as to
place the head office in London, was unanimously carried.
It was stated that, although the nominal management
was in Melbourne, the policy and direction came from
London, where most of the shareholders now were.”
Now speaks sorrow !
All the shares —
And to-morrow
All the bears
Can beg or borrow —
Go to Bull!
He is full !
Full of Zincs 1
Full of Zincs !
That’s why he drinks ;
Hence his sorrow'.
Bought ’em up to fifty bob ;
(Now’, if you’re inclined to rob,
You may net eleven and six).
Sad to-morrow !
Fifty bob to nearly nix—
Zincs !
Stinks!
Now the office goes to Bull ;
He is full—
Full of Zincs—
Though the awful facts he blinks,
Taking in despair to drinks ;
Hear Bull’s boodle as it clinks,
While Bull sadly pays for Zincs,
Sellers playing lofty jinks,
Each his profit loudly chinks,
Made of Zincs—
Name that stinks
Worse than many kitchen sinks,
Bad as minks 1
Zincs!!
Bull’s full!
(Crowded Bull).
These are nice Imperial links,
Binding us to London town —
Zincs are down !
Holder’s brains are full of kinks—
Holder’s outlook black as inks ;
Seller loudly daily winks.
As he walks ’mid roses, pinks,
And the Heidsieck gaily drinks,
Bought with Zincs I
Fifty bob to ’leven and six !
Fifty bob to nearly nix !
Hi! Drinks!
Zincs !!
Stinks 11!
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
but the high scale of wages recently fixed for the neigh-
boring Black Range field is alleged to have scared the co.
for which the Sirdar group was selected.
* * * *
Marvel Loch, Southern Cross (W.A.), has fur-
nished two small but good returns, and is reported to be
opening up well in depth. Tb has about £5OOO in
hand, and so far 40,000 shares nave been issued. There
are also 10,000 reserve shares, but they are under a six
months option at ss. per share.
* * * *
From an uninterested man, who was asked for
his opinion : “ The flat underlay of the reef in the Oroya-
Black Range (W.A.) is not likely to be of much benefit to
the Sandstone Development Co., which holds a big area
of ground adjoining. One of its leases —the Juno—must
get a bit of the reef if i t holds down ; but, as the shoots
of gold dip south, values will soon pass once more into
Oroya-Black Range ground.”
* * * *
The May returns from the Junction North,
Broken Hill, don’t show the improvement forecasted by
the stock’s lusty barrackers. The ore treated was 3926
tons, and the approximate profit was £2865, less office
expenses, depreciation, etc.; say, £2250 net, which is an
outside figure. That means 11s. 6d. per ton. Reserves
are estimated at 300,000 tons ; at 11s. 6d. per ton, that is
£172,500, or 19s. 2d. per share (there are 180,000 in the
co.). No doubt, more ore may be opened up ; possibly,
also, the extraction may improve; and something may
also be allowed for the zinc-bearing tailings. But a good
set-off for all that is the certainty (as far as anything can
be called certain) of a fall in the price of metals. In the
foregoing, lead was taken at £l9 17s. 6d,, the month’s
average, and silver (fine) at 2s. BJd. Whether a mine,
which on this basis has 19s. 2d. per share in sight, can be
fairly reckoned worth 355. is purely a ma, ter of opinion.
The man who says it is, must be a person who takes a
large size in risks.
* * * *
Broken Hill South Blocks are sharing the de-
mand for Broken Hill Souths, and that demand, which
comes mostly from London, is apparently due to the
phenomenal firming of the lead market to £22. Buying
orders at £7 18s. were received in Australia early this
week, and that means a shade over £8 delivered at the
other side, which brings this stock close up to
the top reached during the November boom (£8 155.).
At the end of 1904 they stood at £2 7s. 6d. for paids, and
40s. for the others. Certainly for this mine the 1904 con-
ditions can’t altogether return again, because the ore
developments since then have been remarkably good.
That, however, with a mine like the South, whose ore
reserves have never been in doubt, is of much less conse-
sequence than the price of metals ; and in that respect it
is quite likely that the 1904 experience will be more or
less repeated. And the 1904 lowest price for lead was
£ll, or just half this latest quotation. South Blocks
made a net profit in May of £4471, which works out
at 13s. 9d. per ton of ore. There was approximately
782 tons of lead in the concentrates, so the net profit
was at the rate of £5 14s. per ton of lead. In
other words, South Blocks’ profit would disappear if
lead fell £5 14s. below the May average, which was about
£2O. Thus, on present figures, profit would vanish if
lead fell below £l4 6s. ; and, except in 1900, there wasn’t
one year between 1885, when Broken Hill started, and
1906 when lead didn’t fall below £l4 6s. South Blocks
must therefore do better work before its future can be
reckoned as assured.
* * * *
Yambulla, on the N.S.W. South Coast, lately
had the usual visions of Foreign Capital coming in with a
benevolent smile and a free hand to “ open up the dis-
trict,” an admittedly neglected one. The report was that
a Melbourne co. had been as good as formed. But some-
thing seems to have gong wrong with the works. For
some years a small co. worked the old Yambulla mine,
and took out about4ooo tons for Bdwt. per ton, all from
shallow levels ; then after getting down to 180 ft., the co.
abandoned the business, and Mjradian and Pola took it
up. They opened out at 180 ft., and from a reef running
up to as much as 12ft. wide they have got out 2000 tons
for about 2100 oz. It was generally understood that
“ Melbourne capital ” was going to give £7OOO for an in-
terest, and put up enough to provide new machinery,
etc.; but after an inspection of the mine had been made,
“ Melbourne capital ” turned out to be less generous than
had been supposed, arid so work is going on in the old
way, with, according to some estimates, 18 months’ stone
reasonably proved.
* * * *
New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.), which has not
received its electrical plant as soon as it had figured on,
must have a lot of financial leeway to make up, on account
of its heavy capital expenditure. Shareholders and
dabblers, therefore, want to see a statement of liabilities.
Before the shaft collapsed things looked strained. A
shilling dividend cost the co. £lO,OOO, and the market
value of the mine was ten times that much. Yet all
there was to pound out profits was a 10-head mill—-a good
enough little plant, but 10 heads take a long time to make
£lO,OOO. The co., therefore, did wisely to get more
battery power and another mine the Eleanora—
though the latter’s previous history was poor enough. The
New Hillgrove Prop, itself has had some very rich
stone; but it was in short shoots, so the upper levels
were quickly worked out, except for some rich stone
near the shaft, where it was unsafe to work. The deeper-
level shoots should be longer ; and as Baker’s Creek,
next door, is prospecting the deep-levels to advantage,
things should go fairly well with the New Hillgrove, in
spite of the dead-weight of capital expenditure. The
battery is of Bendigo make.
* * • «
The New’ Hillgrove accounts for the co.’s year,
which ended on December 31st last, arrived by mail this
week; but nearly six months, have happened since
December 31st, and the co. has tfad its hand in its pocket
(or in its banker’s pocket) all the time. When the books
closed, cash and liquid assets were under £lO,OOO in
excess of outstanding bills; and all that went long
ago in shaft-sinking, plant, and the new electrical
installation. Last year showed a loss of £7059 ; that was
exclusive of capital expenditure on shaft-sinking, but in-
cluded £9019 written off for depreciation of plant and of
mine work previously charged to capital. Management
expenses were, as usual, heavy; actual mining cost
£13,804 (exclusive of shaft work), while management ex-
penses in Hillgrove and Sydney ran to £4320, and in Lon-
don to £l9Bo—and what was done for the latter amount
Heaven only knows, seeing that the consulting engineers’
fees are charged to the Hillgrove and Sydney account.
* * * a
Homeward Bound, Wyalong (N.S.W.), is
struggling with the hard country by introducing air
compressors to work machine drills. The chief trouble is
the smallness of area ; it would be more profitable to
amalgamate with the two adjoining claims and sink one
good serviceable shaft. The three properties among
them only take in about 1000 ft. along the reef.
* • * *
Captain Richard, of Mt. Morgan, w r ho was
rushed off to America as soon as the Electrolytic Refin-
ing Co. was fixed up, will be back again this month. As
a matter of fact, though the co. was only completed in
February, it had been on the stocks for months—almost
ever since F. H. Snow made the contract with his Ger-
man-American principals, to handle the Morgan output
—so many things were already in train. The engineer
and manager of the new co. will be Benjamin Magnus,
who formerly ran the Calumet and Hecla refinery at
Buffalo ; and the works will most likely go up at Kembla
(N.S.W.). This will be some consolation to Kembla for
the painfully slow progress made by that other smelting
co. which, over 12 months ago, was going to rise out of
the ashes of the Dapto works. In fact, that co.’s progress
is so slow that you can only measure it with good instru-
ments.
* * * *
Manager Coakes, who is leaving the Catherine
Reef United, Bendigo, after half-a-century’s service, was
a bit of a terror to journalists. Not that he was unkindly
or harsh, but none quite knew how he would take the
way a bit of intelligence was put. His last clean-up at
the old Catherine was tip-top—23o£oz. from 31.0 tons.
After all, the mine hasn’t done badly out of the present
shoot even as far as it has gone, for a big lump has been
paid in dividends, and a big capital expenditure wiped
out. The new manager is a young Bendieonian, with a
tolerable amount of self-confidence. This, plus the mine,
ought to put him up a rung or two on the ladder.
* * * *
With the death of cricketer “ Bob ” M'Leod,
the modern spirit in the directorate of the Long Tunnel
Extended disappears. When he went on to the Board,
matters were very blue with the old co., and shares were
at a figure not seen since the call days, 30 years back.
“Bob” owned to the last that he knew more about the
pitch of a cricket field than the pitch of the shoot
of gold in the Extended mine. Still he knew what
was discipline, and the mine profited by that knowledge.
He never had any prejudices about the underlie of the
reef being against the mine, but had the sense to pick
out among the staff men who could put facts straight to
him. And, above all, he did not mind talking straight on
the many occasions that straight talk was needed in the
Extended’s Board room. An odd coincidence w'as that
with his advent into VValhalla, the reef in the Extended
lost some of its underlie, thus giving the mine a longer
life. Now, at the time of his death, comes the news that
the reef is making west again more rapidly than it did
for hundreds of feet overhead.
* * » *
Cassilis (Vic.) has at last got its electric scheme
planned. Not before it was want ed either. Idea is to put a
power station on a fall near the junction of the Oobungra
and Victoria Rivers, in Gippsland, and convey the elec-
tricity to the mine, to be used for hauling and every other
purpose possible, even to browning the manager’s toast.
The co. is the sole survivor of the many that have tackled
the mineral lodes of that part of Vic. Thanks to the
average run of the ore being an ounce, it has only called
on shareholders to put up about £6OOO, on which a return
of about £14,000 has been made in dividends. That looks
well; but it doesn’t look as well when it is known that
the gold won is of the total value of £250,000. A big
portion of this has gone in plant, for almost every new
man who has come has made a change in the designs of
his predecessor. Had the shareholders been at all a
determined lot, they would have diverted a good deal of
this expenditure into their own pockets, for they would
have put up capital long since to provide proper equip-
ment, instead of grubbing along midway between a call,
a bank overdraft, and a dividend. The electric scheme
will help, for there is no decent fuel in the locality. No
doubt it will be carried out, though the fund built'up to
pay for it out of profits is already coveted by some of the
shareholders.
» * • *
Birthday New Find, Berringa (Vic.), doesn’t
pretend on its native heath to be much more respectable
than a Wild Oat; but the public is fed with cheerful
reports, so calls are got in pretty regularly from the out-
siders. A lengthy term of shallow work has not dis-
closed anything to justify the 10-head mill which was
recently added to the plant, and it will probably rust
out before there is enough stone at grass to keep it
running full time. A while ago, a trial crushing of a few
hundredweight of stone was put through, to encourage
the holders of shares, now called up to 6s. 2d., and
marketable outside the home district at about 3s
• * •
The7d. a yard wash which the dredge-man is
nowadays pursuing, recalls the record of the Allied
Armies. That co. worked the ground now shaded by
Ballarat’s most decorative villas. It only had three
acres, but in three years those three acres gave £lOl 350
worth of gold. The wash was 30ft. deep.
* * * •
J. Bull will put up a vast sum for the purchase
of a mine, but after that he is a poor call-payer. Eighteen
months ago the Victorian Star Gold Mines, Ltd., was
floated in London in 150,000 shares of £l, and nearly all
the working capital went in buying pumping and winding
plant. The falling off in the yields of the Victoria
Cornish has presumably caused John to shy off further
Victorian Star calls, and consequently the mine has
temporarily closed down. In the old days of Daylesford,
the Star, on Specimen Hill, was a mighty gold producer. ’
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, at a ver-
tical depth of 2650 ft., has cut 6ft. of mineral stone. This
may mollify some of the discontented shareholders, who
have been criticising directors and management. Total
cost of handling stone runs to 38s. 9d. per ton ; 22,725
tons were milled for £21,317, and £14,941 came in from
concentrates—an average yield of about 325. It has
become a habit with some managers to lump the cyanide
return with the mill recovery; but that kind of thingisboth
objectionable and misleading, for often a rich lot of old
tailings happens to be included in the total. The Bril-
liant Extended gold from cyanide works was £4538, which
is equal to about 4s. a ton on the ore milled ; so even
reckoning cyanide returns in, the yield did not pay the
total costs. The co. owes £5327 to its bank, and £2400
on its new compressor, and the debt isn’t likely to get
any smaller very soon. Some 60,000 tons are estimated
as reserves in sight ; but with a reef containing patches
of white stone that have to be left, the actual reserves of
profitable ore are a doubtful quantity. The co. has a
large area (75 acres), and good stone at 2650 ft. is a favor-
able sign ; and the sick share market has brightened up
in consequence. There is certainly as much reason to be
hopeful about the Brilliant reef as about most things on
an old goldfield, and its record is one of the best.
0.K., the North Queensland copper mine which
was put oh too high a pedestal and then was trampled on
after it had been knocked off, made a profit last half-year
of £13,491, according to profit and loss account. ■ As a
matter of fact, though, profit and loss figures are not
worth much in such a case. On the one side, owing to
the severe wet season, the furnace was in blast for only 99
days, yet for the balance of the time many of the'ex-
penses ran on. On the other side, large" sums spent
during the half-year in development work have been
charged not against revenue but against capital; and
there was also heavy capital expenditure in other
ways. At September 30, 1906, the bank balances
and matte and copper in hand, after paying outstanding
debts, were £14,802. In dividends, £16,872 was paid
during the half-year ; and the haif-year ended with over-
draft and other liabilities £3735 in excess of the value of
copper, etc., on hand. In the two months that have
passed since then smelting has been continuous ; and
working on 10 per cent, ore the look of things soon
changed. At March 31 the co. owed the bank £14,253 ;
at the end of May, chairman John Newell said the co.’s
credit balance had already got up to over £lO,OOO. So
far, the mine is still handling ore averaging over 10 per
cent. ; and that can be kept up for the rest of the
year at least. After that, on present prospects, the
figure will gradually taper off to about 6 or 7 per cent.,
and wdth the appliances now' available there will be good
profit in that. It has been suggested that, as recent
developments have shown mostly about 7 per cent, ore,
the average of the ore treated should be reduced as soon
as possible, so that there may be something like uni-
formity. The directors’ idea, however, seems to be that
the more copper that can be turned out in the present
market the better ; and, anyhow, very little of the lower-
grade ore can be conveniently worked at present. Divi-
dends will be resumed probably in August.
• * * *
Copper and tin shows that John Moffat is con-
nected with in N.Q. have mostly built up solid bank
balances ; so, in spite of disappointments respecting mine
development, Mt. Molloy pays its 17th div. of 6d. without
worrying about the funds ; and Dalziel’s, as forecasted
has also blossomed into a long-expected “sixpenny’’’
About 400 tons, which look like 5 per cent, tin oxide
(say, between £4 and £5 a ton), are now going through the
mill from this mine. The developments have been poor •
but the open cut turns out fair ore at a low cost’
The show is well managed; yet tin is so erratic and
pitchy a mineral that it would be sound policy to
acquire more ground. It is unpalatable to find that the
tin doesn’t go down; but the district is prolific in tin
shows, and a big co. should not confine itself to a small
area.
* • JH •
Chillagoe(Q.) smelters are now treating over 3000
tons of lead and copper ore per month, and this accounts
for a g-ood deal of the improved railway returns, for nearly
two-thirds of the material handled is outside ore. Total
production for Mayr was 149 tons copper, 216 tons lead,
and 30,7660 z. silver ; but it is well to note that 3387 tons
of ore were smelted, so the average return, although
metals are at top prices, was only about £'6 per ton of ore.
Chillagoe’s own ore does not come up to that average-
-1176 tons copper ore yielded 47 tons metal, or 4 per cent.,
besides 6|oz. silver per ton, Mungana sent 151 tons for
14 tons copper—a small return for such a big co. But,
although this mine is classed among copper shows, it
sends out more silver and lead ; for the month, 690 tons
of ore returned 09 tons lead (10 per cent.), with nearly
lOoz. silver. Chillagoe thus depends on outside shows,
including Mungana, to keep its furnaces going ; so a man
who invests in shares or debentures is practically backing
the resources of the district; wherefore, as before pointed
out, the fact that the smelting return even on present
metal prices is only £6 per ton of ore is worth noting.
Out of that, mining, freight, and smelting costs have to
be paid.
* * • *
“Mainshaft”: Re statement (B. 6/6/’O7) that
there are doubts about the permanence of the Charleston
mines (N.Q.). Three Charleston properties, owned by
John Candlish—the Queenslander, Havelock, and Nil
Desperandum—have a mill record of 35,000 tons for
49,0000 z., with from 50s. to 735. gold in concentrates and
tails. All of these shows have strong reefs in the sink,
and are still producing ; and one of them has proved a 3ft.
shoot of ounce stone for 1200 ft. Further, the Dry Hash
has a silver-lead lode, whose last exported parcel returned
60 per cent lead and 15dwt. gold. If Charleston isn’t
good enough to build a railway to, the rest of the Ether-
edge field can be counted out as well.
* * * *
“Redoubt”: “ Mainshaft’s” notes on the
Cloncurry position in the market (B. 6/6/’O7) are good, in
so far as they relate to the present position of the prin-
cipal mines; but the principal mines are very few in
number so far. Further, the present position of the
mines is not what concerns the investor. He looks at the
future, and that’s a bit hazy. But the present position
does concern the speculator, though, and Australia at
this moment is a pretty sick kind of speculator, and
“Mainshaft” unconsciously advances the reason. He
says from “November last to the end of February, Mr. Bull
fed greedily on Cloncurry copper, and his table manners
were beastly, and then New York gave him an emetic.”
Not so. Bull had his feed of Cloncurry copper any-
thing from seven to 30 years ago, and from the incep-
tion of the present metal boom he has been feeding his
calves, of which Australia has been the most avaricious.
Bull is not eating ;he is getting rid of his load. Note
what “Mainshaft” says The market strengthens on
Australian buying one day ; in comes Mr. J. Bull, a
strong seller, and knocks the market out.” Just so.
Bull is still feeding his calves. He made the market
originally, and has been selling the stock from the high
prices down to the present low or normal ones. John
Bull received no emetic from New York. The New York
position right through the chapter, panic and all given
in, has been a strong one. Even to-day it is New York
which is keeping up the price of standard copper—the
speculative copper. New York is coming in daily to buy.
It buys standard copper in London at a price payably
below its own electrolytic, and takes it to America and
converts to electrolytic. New York has been keeping
up the standard-copper price by buying, and England
sells its standard copper as it has been selling its Clon-
curry shares. Australia has got the Cloncurry shares at
high prices (and it can have more), and America has got
the standard copper. Not until England comes in and
buys back some copper co. stocks (notably Cloncurry) will
Australia look otherwise than sorrowful. England has
got our cash. And serve us right.
• * • •
“ Quartpot ” : Re Argylla, of Cloncurry
(B. -23/5/’O7). True, the outcrop is large, but it is what is
locally known as “ white oxide ” (quartz). There are two
small, short seams of rich ore running diagonally into
this outcrop, on which two 6x4 prospecting shafts are
being sunk, and at time of writing they are not looking
too favorable. Previous to recent visit of }4r. Hill, senior
partner of Messrs. Alex. Hill and Stewart, the co.’s con-
sulting engineers in London, the co.’s late and sanguine
general manager had let a contract to sink a main shaft.
But Mr. Hill stopped that, and substituted the two shafts
mentioned. Very doubtful if the two shoots of ore go
down ; and this is characteristic of most of the ore occur-
ring in quartz on the field, and the chances of the mine
being the “boss” of the field are very remote. Of
all the Queensland Freehold’s properties, undoubtedly
the Just-in-Time, orMalbon, is the most promising. Two
prospecting shafts are on ore 4ft. wide, of glance and
carbonates, and there are some 80 tons of 30 per cent,
ore at grass for about a month’s work. The Argylla has",
perhaps, 10 tons to show for very nearly the same amount
of toil.
* * » *
“Quartpot,” from Cloncurry: “Noteworthy
that, from this much-boomed field, only about one-
quarter the copper is going away now that went over 12
months back, though the price then was some £7O per
ton, as against £lOO now. The rich surface patches are
becoming scarcer and more difficult to find, and the
gouger’s lot is not such a happy one as of yore. Carriers
are scouring the field to get back-loading, in shape of
copper ore, which, however, in spite of reduced rates, is
unobtainable. The absence of water, too, is telling
against the gouger. The late wet season was a light one,
and, in consequence, long, dry stages have to be tackled.”
* * * *
Shades of Lonergan and .J. P. Madden ! The
sails are to be bent once again on that apparent derelict
the Mt. Lyell Comstock, and an attempt made to get the’
craft out of the region of perpetual calm into which it
was supposed to have drifted. Hill and Stewart, mining-
engineers, of London, are now the metallurgists that are
to solve the problem that has baffled many a good man,
as well as many a duffer—how to treat profitably the
low-grade copper-bearing schists of the Mt. Lyell region.
Moore, at the South Tharsis ; Trent and his subordinates'
at the North Lyell ; and the Mt. Lyell staff, with
the wet magnetic separator, have all passed by with
bowed heads. Hill arid Stewart’s idea is to concentrate.
The ideal concentration would be that of a smelter if
pyritic ore w'ere available, or if the Comstock ore were
sufficiently high in copper to be a workable proposition.
Sticht, of Mount Lyell, has so far gobbled up in the end all
the ore that has been won by previous experimenters at
heavy cost. This, too,in all probability will be theendof this
latest effort in experimenting. Hill and Stewart admit
that water concentration is of no avail. The process to
be relied on appears to be the Cattermole, owned by the
Minerals Separation, Ltd., which several of the Broken
Hill mines are adopting. It is an emulsion process
minus the Elmore vacuum. Ore sent from the Lyell
Comstock, and treated by it, ranged from 2‘3 per cent,
copper to 3'7 per cent., and a recovery of between 70 and
80 per cent, was made. This was laboratory testing. On
this basis, it is W'orked out that the ore gives a product
valued at £2 10s. 9d. per ton. The outlay is put, at £1 5-
3£d. per ton, leaving a profit of £1 ss. s£d. But tli,’.-e
figures are on the dangerous basis of copper at £lOO per
ton. As it is said that there are 150,000 tons of 4 per-
cent. ore available, Bull is to put up £54,000 to give the
new process a trial. This ought to be ample ; but Bull
will be wise if he goes very slow at first, so as to find out
whether working tests overcome those difficulties of
recovery which made Sticht say that 7 per cent, copper
was needed to earn profits from the Lyell ores.
* * * *
™ A -, th l ee . year . s ’ sumn iary of the Waihi, the
J Bulled mme wiuoh P ays the marvellous dividends to
„ , _ . 1904. 1905. 1906
Ore crushed, tons .. 291,176 298,531 328,866
Yield per ton .. .. 47 /_ 4 «, «’/
Costs per ton .. .. 22 /. 21/- 21/
Nt«S iP p fca •• 688 ’ 147 733 -561 847,197
Nt t profit, £ .. .. 311,665 346,554 408 793
Ore reserves, tons .. 712,794 938,334 1,029’658
Last year’s dividends (£397,244, including tax) were 75
Cent i‘ co Capital the return was 65per cent for
1905, and 60_ per cent, in each of the tw O P years before
, the outtook, if it does not assure a larger
likely! d * thlS year ’ su^ests that such a thing is very
* * * #
m .. ” : The ferry service between Port
idaint! r f n rom n^ Wlllia m- StOW S, (Vic ’ ) is causin F many com-
plaints from the public. For several years past and
until just recently, two boats, the Gem and the Queen
naintained a half-hourly service between the two places’
bonrnp h connecting with the trams at the Port Mel-’
r!nwav Pier ’ ftnd J he Queen with the trains at the
1 P . A nionth or two ago the Railway- Depart
ment called for tenders for an improved service connect'
ing with the trains, and offered a substantial subsidy.
The subsidy was smaller than that given in previous
years, so the boat-owners interested decided not to
tender. The Department then raised the figure, and
called for fresh tenders. An outside syndicate proposed
bringing a boat over from Launceston and securing the
contract. Simultaneously with the announcement that
the Kail way Commissioners were giving favorable con-
sideration to the Launceston boat, the news was pub-
lished in the Melbourne dailies that the owners of the
Queen, Gem, Baldrock, and Motor Gem had amalgamate
and formed a concern to be called the Victorian
.terry Co. The new company promised a ferry
service that would not be surpassed in Sydney
Harbor or Hobart. “ Come fair, come foul,” their
boats would be found running according to time-table,
ihis sounded so nice that the Railways (it once accepted
their tender, and gave the Launceston-boat people the
go-by. How the trouble has commenced. Out of the
four boats that the Victorian Ferry Co. has under its con-
trol, three are laid up, and the Gem is running* on its own
doing only one trip an hour. The co. considers the con-
venience of the public to such an extent that the hitherto
30-mmutes service has been reduced to a 60-minutes one.
As soon as the contract expires, it’s about up to the Rail-
way Department to build its own boats ; then, perhaps,
, ilhamstown will know the joys of a quick service and
cheap fares.
A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding' the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining cos., because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost, which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. These machines have
been supplied to leading mines everywhere by the makers,
Messrs. Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have ap-
pointed W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne and Sydney, the
sole Australian agents. The machine has the distinction
of being a drill maker as well as drill sharpener .*
* * * •
P. W. Tewksbury, managing-director of a num-
ber of dredging companies in the Ovens district, writes,
under date 20th May, 1907 “ I find Rubberised Leather
much superior to ordinary leather or pure rubber for air
and other pump valves.” W. P. Shaw and Co., manufac-
turers, Abbotsford, Vic.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any Other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. ffm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
103 Clarence-Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring- up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“ Shaw ” Hand Rock -Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer —which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. In some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw-
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [c]
• * * *
The Journal of Commerce (Liverpool) in its
issue of 4th September, 1906 wrote, regarding The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ In these days
of severe competition, when some of the best known
offices find the fight for new business so hard as to justify
them in seeking absorption, it is refreshing to come
across an institution which manages each year to add to
its productiveness.”*
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * #
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar.- —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
« * * ■
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N'.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*
* « * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * ■*
“ Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel- 1
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase."
•* * ■* m
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne. *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and i
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * »
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivi ted pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also-
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field fof
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A,
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six larae Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the-
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for ,
Inventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
fit
i-
GrO TO HELL
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
as
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bali Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER RMTHeRSr 2 ?! 000 '* 03 *
A LSf) AT MtXBOORNE.
( opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Only three out of Victoria’s 22 Premiers
have had a longer run than Bent has had now—
Turner. McCulloch and Gillies. By the end of
May, Thomas will have had 1209 days of glory or
the other thing. But he will still have to go over
a year more before he reaches the nearest one of
the other three.
The High Court decision in regard to the
S. Australian Senate seat, which was left in doubt
through the muddling of a local official, shows
that, given a fair count, Labor would have won.
It follows that a Labor man will be sent in by the
S. A. Parliament for the vacancy. That will give
D moeracy a majority against Anti-Sosh in the
Federal Top House.
The fact that the Kidston Government has
not, by this time, lodged in gaol 200 or 300 of the
insufferably insolent Tory law-breakers who faked
the postal vote at the late Queensland election,
intercepted and stole voting papers, and illegally
bullied and threatened voters, is disappointing.
There seems to be material enough to land several
hundred prominent Philpites, male and female,
in gaol for lengthy terms, if the matter was only
followed up.
The shifty Joseph of N. S. Wales has a
characteristic way of providing for reduction of
members (which he doesn’t believe in, but has to
pretend to believe in). Not this Parliament, but
the next is to be asked to authorise a referendum
on the subject, and that will leave it to a still later
Parliament to put the reduction, if sanctioned,
into force for the Parliament next succeeding,
some six years hence. Having explained this,
Joseph flies off at a tangent to explain that there
really should not be any reduction, partly owing
to the grievous wrongs of N.S.W. and partly
of all things on this earth, because of the
new Local Government system—the system which
was to relieve Parliament of so much of its work
as to make a whole lot of members unnecessary.
HARD TO PLEASE.
The Bishop of London headed a deputation from differ-
ent denominations to the music-halls committee of the
County Council, protesting against exhibitions of living
statuary.
THEATRICAL MANAGER : “ Ga rn ! Watcher growlin'
at ! Ain't they a fine body o’ gals ! Wot's
wrong with their figgers, anyway ? ”
The Bulletin hasn’t yet received any
particulars from Mr. E. J. Hodges, of Carrington-
road, Marrickville, the anti-Federal gentleman
who declared in the press that it was distinctly
set forth in the Constitution that the capital was
to be fixed during the life of the first Australian
Parliament, and who accused the Australian Par-
liament of breach of faith in not so fixing it. This
paper asked Mr. Hodges to point out the hitherto
unheard-of clause on which he rested his state-
ment, and, so far, he hasn’t done it. On present
appearances, he doesn’t seem likely to do it. It
looks like a back-down or a crawl-out. At various
times The Bulletin has asked quite a number of
slanderous persons who accused Australia of
breaking—or proposing to break—some pro-
viso or other of the Constitution, to point out
the clause which contained their alleged proviso,
and it has had the bad luck not to get a coherent
reply from one of them. It begins to think that
every one of the State Frights party invents his
grievance and his slander against Australia, and
is so well aware that it is invented that he won’t
even attempt to give particulars. Senator Gould,
the man who said there was a clause in the Con-
stitution which prohibited a Federal graduated
land-tax, has now been silent for about eight
months, though The Bulletin has been asking
him for his clause at intervals all that time.
Despite the huge increase in hank and
savings bank deposits in Victoria during the
past three years, there is no tendency to
speculation. The savings bank deposits grow
greater by half-a-million annually, and the
interest allowed averages only 2£ per
cent. Yet there is no gambling in
land or shares. Perhaps the me-
mories of the land boom are still
joo near. There are no build-
ing societies or land banks to
help along a boom in land or
houses, and most small in-
vestors are buying their homes
through the suburban brancli
bank. This is all right until
the banks want cash or till-
money in a hurry; then good-
bye to the Queen Anne villa in
Malvern, and farewell to the
Gothic cottage at Balaclava.
The Melbourne Stock Ex-
change is desperately dull, and
only dog-eat-dog business is
being done. The fact is there
is no new public money going
into the Stock Exchange. All
the old fields—Walhalla, Mal-
don, Ballarat, Bendigo, Ruth-
erglen—are dead or dying, and
nothing new is being found.
Daylesford is a flash in the pan,
and by Christmas it will be as
dead as it should always have
been. Lenticular bodies of
quartz, hard to find and mostly
patchy in gold, are the characteris-
tics of Daylesford, and too uncer-
tain for the ordinary investor. The
public wants something fresh to
play with—some new field or some
new gambling counter. Possibly the
promised stiff Protective tariff will
create big new industries, to be carried
on by joint-stock capital, and the ex-
pected boom may follow next year.
Meanwhile, with the Collingwood tote closed,
no betting in the newspapers, the Chinese casinos
shut, the two-up schools kept on the run by the
police, the crack clubs closed, barred, and bolted
at 11.30, Melbourne is bereft of chance, risk, or
speculation, and money accumulates while men
decay.
The paralysis of the Carruthers Govern-
ment in the matter of the crimping evil at New-
castle begins to be ridiculous. Newcastle is
practically bailed up by the men who run the sailors 5
boarding-houses, and who refuse to “supply 55
seamen except at a ridiculous profit to them-
selves, and under wholly illegal conditions. Con-
sequently, the harbor is full of loaded ships which
can’t get out, and of ships which can’t load because
loaded vessels are in the way. The Carruthers
Government knows all about the Federal capital,
and a good deal about how to run the Federal
mail service, but it doesn’t seem to know in the
least how to deal with this conspiracy to black-
mail the commerce of the second port in the
State.
Little Carruthers considerably tired the
representatives of the other States at the recent
Premiers’ Conference in Brisbane with his in-
cessant whine about State rights and Federal
oppression. Said Treasurer Peake to him at last:
“Isn’t New South Wales represented in the
Commonwealth Parliament?”
Federal Minister Ewing is again asking
State Insect Carruthers for particulars, but it is
safe to bet that he won’t get them. Joey was re-
ported as having stated at a gaud Mayor’s banquet
that, though Defence was under the control of the
Federal authorities, the Federal Government had
declined to spend a shilling in N.S.W. waters or
in connection with its navy. Ewing points out
that last Defence estimates provided £195,000 for
expenditure in N.S.W., apart from its share of
the expenditure for stores, equipment, etc., and
he asks Carruthers either to explain his yarn, or
to state that he never uttered the lie ascribed to
him. Australia is waiting with a firm conviction
that Joe won’t explain in the least.
More Carruthers re the Brisbane Con-
ference :
Underlying the whole business (the State debts ques-
tion) is the “ sport of the thing’’—the domineering and
imperious attitude of the Federal Government, which will
brook no delay, and will not condescend to patient dis-
cussion, but insists on the delivery of the ultimatum,
which is to be answered while the sands run down in the
hour-glass. I told Mr. John Forrest that we wanted to
use the good old seven-day clock to measure the time
rather than to be so dictatorially ordered to decide within
the hour. The Commonwealth is only seven years old,
and it wants to do everything within that time, and
spring upon an unprepared people all sorts of novel and
undigested schemes, simply to show its authority.
When the Commonwealth wants to do something
that doesn’t go to prop up Joey’s little speck of
“dignity” as a State Premier, Carruthers says
that the Commonwealth is only seven years old,
and the time is yet too green. But when the
Commonwealth objects to plant the Federal capi-
tal on Carruthers’ back-door step in Sydney,
which Carruthers thinks would bring him kudos
from his Tory friends as the man who ensured the
capital’s trade to Sydney, then Carruthers snarls
about “unreasonable delay,” and threatens to
secesh because the Ma State has been “Robbed
of her Rights” for seven whole years. What a
cantankerous molecule it is !
“ Cam ” writes :
Melbourne Age digs up a disgraceful reminiscence of
the anti-Australian gang which calls itself Free-
trade. In order to compete in price with imported
shoddy, some Australian woollen mills took to making
a sort of flannel which was partly cotton —clean, fresh
cotton, not filthy rags used up again. They didn’t sell
this as all wool, but honestly admitted that it was
shandy-gaff flannel. Nevertheless, the importers, cheered
on by the Melbourne Argus, had it analysed, presented
the analyses to the Tariff Commission with a scathing
denunciation of Australian manufactures, and made a
demand that the nice, clean, pure imported stuff should
not be penalised as against this Australian rubbish.
That was just about a year ago. And the other
day, when it was proved that many imported
silks are fully half shoddy and other foreign matter,
that they are loaded with arsenic and other poi-
sons, and that they are sold by the lying Foreign-trader
as pure materials, the Melbourne Argus again became an
angry paper. But it was a different kind of angry paper.
It wanted to know why the woman of moderate means
should be deprived of the satisfaction of wearing a nice
shimmering material, sold to her under false pretences at
double its value, and it was very wrath indeed at the
foreign swindler being interfered with. The Freetrade
press is the anti-Australian press all the time, and it
seems willing to barrack for any swindle or any poison-
ing device, so long as it is the importer who perpetrates
it, and the mere Australian who suffers by it.
NO SURRENDER !
VALIANT JOR (nailing his unpaid bills to a gum-
tree, and defying the Australian Parliament
to come on): “ Who steals a Capital site
steals trash—but ther blessed cow who robs me
of me I O U— I’ll KAT ! ”
“ P.” makes a serious allegation :
Re failure of the Vic. Labor party at State elections.
A g-ood deal of it is due to Tom Mann and his Socialist
party. Mann wishes to be sole ruler of the Democrats ot
Victoria, and to that end he pushes some of his mosf
enthusiastic supporters into the P.L.O. branches in the
various districts. If a selected candidate does not suit
them, they take measures to kill his political chances.
Witness the treatment meted out to T. Smith at
Fawkner, during the Federal elections. That so-called
fight for free speech seemed to be carried on for the pur-
pose of killing Smith’s chance of election. In vain the
local branches protested and pointed out the harm that
was being done to the Labor cause. As to a fight for
free speech, Mann’s party ..takes particular care that any-
one who is opposed to it doesn’t get a ghost of a chance
of free speech ; and I know for a fact that it was
particularly requested to attend the Prime Minister’s
meetings in force where it was possible. The Mannists
say they intend to kill the P.L.O. and replace it by a
Tom Mann organisation.
Carruthers announced, the other day, in
connection with Sandford’s ironworks enterprise,
that the industry didn’t want any Commonwealth
interference or bolstering. Perhaps not; but
Australia’s friend, the Monkey, knowing
that he must have iron and steel.
wouldn’t take any risks. Consequently
he backed his iron and steel works with
his whole wealth and credit; and he
backed the industry to such purpose
that the output of the Imperial Japan- i
ese Steel Works at Wakamatsu has
already reached 90,000 tons a year,
and, according to a British Con-
sular report just issued, is ex-
pected to reach 180,000 tons by
1912. The Australian iron and
steel industry had no interfer-
ence and bolstering for about
120 years—and that’s just why
it never had the strength to get
born and be an industry. It just
remained a chicken in the shell, while
our friend the Monkey’s chicken was hatched and
was fed up into a very powerful fighting rooster.
Marrow-freezing Maoriland shriek from
a religious paper :
Joseph Ward, our Premier, is a Romanist; and so is
the General Manager of the Exhibition, Mr. Munro. The
Civil Service is largely composed of Romanists. How
they get there, God only knows, but dark and mysterious
are the wavs of Rome. . . . Devlin and Donovan have been
here preaching Home Rule. Joseph Ward was at Devlin’s
meeting. ... If the people of Maoriland only knew what
Ward is doing, and what he has done, they would be up
inarms. He is a dark, wily schemer. .. . Joseph Ward
has gone home to the Colonial Conference, there to wag
his oily tongue, well-oiled with unctuous Jesuitical
sophistries and finesse. . . . We hope you will watch him
well at the Conference, for he is a sly dog, this same
Joseph Ward.
A bit vague and breathless, perhaps ; a trifle
lacking in definiteness, possibly ; but how telling
an indictment withal ! The man is unmasked,
and should go away and drown himself without
delay.
One A. Consett Stephen, presumably the
solicitor of that name, wrote last week to Sydney
Telegraph, suggesting that the N.S.W. State
Government should go to the Orient s.s. Co. and
“ offer them such subsidy as may be deemed
reasonable by them for the taking of our mails,”
and he added that “someone must come to the
rescue, otherwise there will be no mail service at
all —that is evident.” Truly, they are a wild,
mad lot —these provincialists, Australia will have
various mail lines even if there is a temporary
break in the Orient service—evidently Mr. Con-
sett Stephen never heard of the P. and O. and
the Vancouver lines. And his proposal to pay the
Orient Co. for a mail service anything it thinks
reasonable is insanely rash; he has no idea
how much it might think reasonable. Then
there is something fine and large about
the picture of a respectable, middle-aged
solicitor like Mr. Stephen leading a storm-
ing party into the Sydney G.P.O. to get
illegal possession of the Federal mails so as to put
them on the State mail-boats ; and the Federal
troops defending the premises ; and the stairs
covered with nose-blood, torn coat-tails, and shat-
tered top-hats. It is wonderful to consider the
number of high-handed, violent and illegal acts—
acts that would almost certainly end in tumult
and gore—that are advocated in the Sydney press
by wild but provincial-minded gentlemen who
never really hurt a fly except under great provo-
c tion or chloroform.
Sydney Telegraph, in a leading article on
the starch industry (12/6/’O7), did this marvel of
confusion and misrepresentation :
But even this poor pay is not yielded by the market
value of what they produce. Starch enjoys a Protective
duty of 100 per cent., which, vith the cost of freight and
insurance, raises the price in Melbourne to more than
double the f.o.b. quotations in London, the difference
being between £lB 14s. per ton and £4l per ton. There
is an excise equal to half the duty, so that the net Pro-
tection to the manufacturer is 50 per cent., while the
consumer pays the 100 per cent, on the imported article
all the same. And this is to keep in existence an i udustry
that now pleads inability to pay a reasonable wage to
those whom it employs. Every laundress in the < ommon-
wealth is put under contribution, and her scanty wages
reduced in order to make up the starvation pay of the
starch makers.... It may be that what a South Aus-
tralian Judge recently described as the “ esoteric mys-
tery” of the balance-sheet prevented Mr. Justice Hood
from understanding the true condition of the starch
business as presented by the employers’ figures, and
caused him to give a decision based on an incorrect inter-
pretation of them. If that is so, an undue share of the
tax is going into the manufacturers’ pockets, and the
employees are being choused out of a public contribution
levied for their benefit. If it is not so, and things are
what they seem, it means that consumers of
starch are paying twice the market value of the article to
keep alive an industry which does not afford a living
wage.
The real position is this : If consumers used im-
ported starch, they would pay the high price
that the ’Graph speaks of, but they don’t; they
use the local article. The local article, through
excess of local competition, has gone down in
price till it is miles below the present
price of the imported article, and the local
laundress is just now getting her starch
at a cheaper figure than usual. Through the low
price wages are down to what Australia con-
siders a starvation level, though they are still
fully 50 per cent, above English rates. (In some
parts of England just now you can hire a skilled
carpenter, who is much more of an artisan than a
starch-maker, for 4yd. per hour, or 21s. 4|d. for a
week of 54 hours; and the lowest wages paid to full -
grown men in the Australian starch trade are far
ahead of that.) The Bulletin’s remedy is to fix
a decent minimum wage, and let the price of
starch go up to correspond—it can do that, and
still be as cheap as any decent human being
would ask. The Telegraph’s remedy is to open
our ports to the goods of all the world, and to add
to the local competition which has made wages
low, a foreign competition which will make them
lower.
The silence of William Kidston, State
Premier of Queensland, is troubling the Pbilp
party greatly. Most of it almost lives at the tele-
phone, on the off-chance that Kidston will ring up
and propose a coalition ; but so far Kidston might
be dead for all the ringing he does. If William
from Scotland only sits tight he will produce a re-
markable situation. He can meet Parliament and
lay down his programme. Nothing can throw
him out except a coalition between declared
Socialism under Bowman and old crusted Toryism
under Philp. If they do combine to throw him
out, they can’t combine to form a Government,
and no Government that either of them could
form can possibly live except by the permission of
Kidston. Therefore, the obvious course is to go
ahead, and let things sort themselves out. A still
mbre obvious thing would be for Kidston to bring
down a programme of one item —the passing of a
Bill to provide for Elective Ministries with a
tenure of office covering the life of one Parlia-
ment. That is the remedy for the three and four
and five and twenty party difficulty. But Kidston
comes from Falkirk, and they don’t try veiv
radical experiments in a very great hurry at
Falkirk.
WASTED ENERGY.
Rev. Dr. Fitchett prefaced his subject by some compli-
mentary references to Mr. Reid, He was a statesman,
not only of Australia, but of the Empire.. . . When the
history of the first 50 years of the Commonwealth was
written, the name of George Reid would appear in bril-
liant letters.
Little Boy : “ It's no good a-rubbin' of that ole
plate , Mrs. Fidget. The letters is near wore
off already .”
The bailiff has sometimes a better billet
than most highly-paid civil servants. Two of
him in Sydney are said to make £lOOO a year
each. The fee for serving an ordinary debt sum-
mons is out of all reason. Take, for example, the
North Sydney Court. A small-debts summons
costs 3s. for service alone in the borough. If the
bailiff steps across the boundary line into Mosman
or Willoughby, the fee is increased.
“ I applied for the position of gardener at
Mr. Carruthers’ house to a city florist. He said,
‘You will have to work on Sundays, as Mr. Car-
ruthers has tennis parties every Sunday, and yon
will have to mow the lawn ; but Mr. Carruthers will
help you push the mowing-machine.’ I said. Mr.
Carruthers can do the lot, as far as I am concerned,
for I won’t work for Father Peter on Sunday.’
How on earth working men can vote for such
scrouchers is beyond my ken. ’’ Extract from letter
read, at Sydney Labor Council on Thursday of
last week.
HOPELESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Ma State wailers stopped their tears
As solid reason met their ears ;
But howls were soon again begun :
“ Ain’t got a grievance ? Ain’t that one 1
NORMAN LILLNY.


A GENTLEMAN
AND
HIS BOOTS.
Anybody who wants to
be well-dressed and
wear Boots which
retain their Shape
and Poise all their
time
Should
Buy a
Pair of
CALLAGHAN
“ ECONOMY ”
BOOTS
To-Day.
' i -
W. - • 1
Wa
1
rM
1616
POST PAID 17/6
TO ANY PART OF THE
COMMONWEALTH.
Callaghan Boots
Give Long: Wear, Too.
The toughness and elasticity of the soles, the solidity of the heels, the fine finish of the
leather in the uppers give assurance of comfort and long wear.
Send for Our Post Free Style, with 96 illustrations and full descriptions.
CALLACHAN AND SON, 395 n™'
BOOTS EXCHANGED OR MONEY REFUNDED.
iilil
1
it
Sill
mm
m
a
I
:
gw
m
wm
i m i
. . .
% yi
i
•v>
i
lu
'.I
®v
I
mmt
M
w
3
r*
&
•'■ : > ■
sm
I
i
m
:■
If
s. ip if
L® if?/Jfe
•fa
I |i|i
■M m 1 *?&■*
James Ward*
501 Geo. 31m
J \destol
• 9
DaMPCOURSE'S
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not. ’’—Marcus Aurelius,
RELIABILITY is more important in building than any quantity of
fancy detail. The sure foundation is naturally, as a matter of course, THE
KEYNOTE OF SUCCESS. There can be no sure foundation unless
it is overlaid with an absolutely effective dampcourse.
MALTHOID ENSURES SUCCESS.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
W
Refiners and Sole "
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. HOLDSWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, foreign manager,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
I
‘HARNESS THE WIND’’
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering' elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
PRICE 27/6
'
AS TRUE AS A BELL !
The PLUM RAZOR will give you many an easy clean shave
before it requires honing or sharpening. It’s as true as a bell
—and rings like one—a sure test of its “ temper,” and temper
is to a Razor what the balance is to a watch.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handie, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
10/6 Post Free to any Part of the World.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
25 Years.
Why in the world doesn’t a man like Jones
get dovm to modern methods l Does he
think I’m running a puzzle department ?
His writing heats me /
“ Well, I’m delighted. At last Jones has a
Briton Typewriter. What a relief from
his pcn-scribhled puzzles ! ”
MR. THINKING MAN!
However smal your business, or whatever your pro-
fession, answer these questions
WHY do you go on laboriously “ penning ” your letters, reports, or other
communications ?
WHY will you waste time over the ancient, wet copy-press, or, perchance,
despatch important letters and documents without retaining copies ?
"WHY won’t you protect yourself by the typewritten carbon copy, which will
repeatedly save trouble and expense 1
WHY don’t you utilise those “dull days,” by extending your business or
vocation throughout your community, by neatly typewritten letters or
announcements ?
Begin to-day!
BRITON TYPEWRITER
is specially
designed
for You.
You need not pay an exorbitant price for complicated and delicate attach-
ments you will never need.
You need not contribute to the costly selling methods used in placing the
high-priced machines on this market.
Let us tell you why The Briton will exactly suit you, and save you £l4.
All our literature is free.
Write to-day for full particulars of OUR Free Trial Offer.
Southern Sales Co.,
6 DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents invited to communicate re Agency for this and other modern lines.
We deal direct with Manufacturers.


AND
O*
vS'
O
GET
YOU
&
HEIDSIECK
Charles
CHAMPAGNE
VINTAGE 1900.
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
k
trademark
Dress faßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
THE VARNISHED BOARDj
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 18, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Various inventions for the coming W.W. Ex-
hibition are credited to women. One has invented
a billiard table. Most likely this will turn out
to merely signify some changes in the old billiard
table. But if some woman would invent a satis-
factory stove, or oven, or range, others of her
species would arise and call her blessed, and buy
the article. Men have, up to date, planned the
cooking apparatus, and women have to cook
on man’s rascally and incompetent device.
(These few remarks are not intended for gas-
stoves —though they are bad enough.) Wives
and daughters sorrowfully put up with the thing
that the other branch of the human species
devised; the “general” or cook doesn’t. She
just says “I can’t stand that oven. Will you
please suit yourself?” One fiend of a stove I
have in my eye (a most unpleasant thing to have
in one’s eye is a stove) affords no chance for the
removal of the cinders except by groping with
one’s hands from the top and lifting out the
slag personally. The fool-inventor who doesn’t
allow for the raking-out of a firebox from
the front, or by means of a trap door from
underneath, ought to be given 10 years
hard cooking in his own diabolical contraption.
Another good stove to give to a bitter enemy is
heated by a flame that passes first over the top.
The heat is over instead of under the cooking
cavern. So nary a “rise” is there in the puff
paste, or the sponge cake or scones. Then con-
sider the dirty and unnecessary labor in getting the
beastie clean ! The lifting off of circular iron lids,
the pulling out of little knobs, the brush-work
that covers one with soot, and the fooling with
iron tools that often stick fast down in the narrow
alleyways of the vacuum spaces ! No wonder
Sarah Janes give notice and go into cigar
factories, like Carmen, who, I firmly believe,
acquired her vile temper through beginning life
as a general servant in Spain, and presently
threw the stove bodily at her missus and left
with all her finer feelings demolished.
The small woman with the figure of the adoles-
cent has at least one advantage over the larger
lady of the same age, even if she doesn’t show off
her gowns so well. She looks years younger.
Miss Marie Hall and Miss Lonie Basche are
almost the same age. There is only a few
months’ difference (Miss Basche takes the differ-
ence) in their ages, yet Lonie (awful name), the
Large Girl, looks almost maternal near Marie,
the Small Girl. Lonie (amazing name) has a
beautiful figure, and she could make her fair and
rather big head quite picturesque by curling all
the straight, rat’s-tail ends of hair, or getting a
hairdresser to give eighteen penn’orth of moral
support. On Friday, Mrs. Mayoress of Sydney
Hughes asked a large piece of Sydney society to
“meet” the star fiddler. Star and star-gazers
met at “ Cranbrook Cottage,” the Hughes’ place
at Rose Bay. The two girls were escorted by
.manager Tait.
A sympathetic manager, watching over the
“ meeting ” of a youthful star with a lot of dressy,
assured, experienced women, is an object of com-
miseration no matter how happy he looks and how
well his frock coat fits him. Even though
his tie is of the latest shade of brown—
“ scorched bread ” brown —he is to be pitied.
He longs with a savage longing for the star to
verbally interest the crowd that he desires to see
later on in the front seats of the Town Hall, and
he regrets with a fierce regret that when the
reception is over she hasn’t said anything but
weather things, or repeated the dry facts she’s
already told those stump-extractors—the press
interviewers. “ Don’t you think,” says a musical
amateur, showing a lot of auriferous teeth, “that
the perfect accord of the human voice and the
violin is most magical in its charm?” And the
star replies fervently, “ O yes ” (of course, she
doesn’t say “Yairs” or “Yep”). If she were
older and more knowing she might hurl a long,
rhapsodic reply in the golden teeth, and the
musical amateur would go away and tell her friends
that the star was the embodiment of a gigantic
intelligence. Especially would she say this if the
rhapsody was wholly unintelligible. There is more
“ bluff ” put up about music than about any
other art.
But to get back to Marie Hall. At her Meet
with society she looked very artistic in a frock of
something green and silken trimmed with moss-
green velvet, a black picture hat, and a necklace
of gold beads. She is a pretty girl in a refined,
uncommon way, but one doesn’t appreciate her
personal charms except at short range. She isn’t
a telescopic girl. The beautiful, quiet eyes, sweet
smile, perfect neck, and silky hair look best the
more closely they are inspected. Marie Hall can
bear being walked round three times and viewed
narrowly from every point. On a platform she
looks insignificant, for want of significant dress-
ing. I wouldn’t mind wagering that if a smart
woman of the world turned her clothes intellect
onto little Hall, she could make the girl as much
a topic as was Paderewski. Her frocking (at
least on Saturday night) accentuated her mezzo
coloring and slenderness. Can’t the Tait
induce her to get into a long, long-tailed, waist-
less robe of vivid scarlet, or turquoise blue —
the brightest turquoise, with gold or silver arab-
esques? And her hair should be frizzed out
like] a mad nimbus. Marie Hall ought to be
gowned in a style that would make the musical
amateurs think of a clarion blast and the Turkish
Patrol. Then she and her fiddle would make
something of a picture. At present, they remind
of the first wash-in of a sepia sketch.
As a musician, the girl is difficult to place. She
is great within the limits of her age, her physique
and her condition—all of which must be taken
into account in estimating her position in the
violin world to-day. Her playing is virginal.
In that sense, her expression of emotion is
limited and sometimes monotonous. But time
and experience
Lady Northcote was at the young violinist’s
first recital, and seemed to gloat over the Max
Bruche concerto. Mrs. Carrefio has been received
by her Ex. privately. Miss Leverrier, another
Lady of the Ivory, was at the House Excellent at
the same happy hour, but the piano fled into a
place of concealment, and there was no music.
A sixteen-year-old bride is a rarity these days.
Miss Vera Isley, the Ohatswood girl who sang for
the Yorks when the public schools gave the Royal
pair a treat, is the that-aged bride. She recently
married a Moree solicitor, a widower named
Zlotkowski. The honeymoon is being spent at the
Solomon Islands, where the bride will have time
to spell her new name in peace.
Miss May Yohe has married for the third time.
It happened in New York, and the third sole
object of the lady’s affections is a commercial
man named Newton Browne. Sydney first saw
May as a coon-song singer. Then as Lady Francis
Hope. Then it heard of her as divorced and
married to an American magnate’s son, named
Strong. Now she’s Mrs. Brown. Later on she
may be Mrs. Smith. Some day she’ll be dead.
That frisky, risky Hartwell and lady left these
shores on Saturday. When they decided to cut
their legal bonds they used no superfluous words in
the letters of farewell they wrote their respective
legal mates. The beautiful lady wrote about six
lines beginning, “I have leftyou forever,” and say-
ing who the new love was ; and the pretty gentle-
man wrote to his consort, also saying, “I have
left you for ever,” and explaining that he could no
longer go on living the semi-detached life. Per-
haps the consort is going to live up to the family
motto of her hubby (“ Contented with his lot ”),
for she hasn’t started to divorce him.
Met Miss Heinze, the Carmen of the German
opera 'co., to-day, and nearly dropped dead from
a rush of admiration to the head. When I saw
her Carmen I vowed it was Bruce Smith in dis-
guise. But Heinze is perfectly beautiful. She has
an extra chin, it’s true, and she is heavier than
twenty-four years should be. But her features
are as classical as those of a Greek marble, she
has eyes like Palotta’s —grave grey eyes with
great black iris, and her hair is a flaxen-golden.
A real blonde. What a pity Carmen can’t be
played fair! The wife of Rilnger (call him
Ringer, or you’ll make him mad) is another very
handsome circumstance. She is dark, and doesn’t
sing—just sits in the stalls and admires Him.
He’s a gay young athletic party. His wife says
the English are thin because they cannot eat their
own cooking.
Prof. Starr Jordan left Sydney last week. One
of his last jaunts was to the Hawkesbury College
with Mr. Frank Coffee, an old schoolfellow. The
pair of old-young boys were born in the same
town, and attended the same school in Western
New York.
Mr. Leonard Dangar and Miss Mary Anderson,
of Glen Innes, are being congratulated on their
engagement. Also, Rev. O’Breznan Ball, of
Kelso, and Miss Lee, of Bathurst. Rev. F. Met-
calf, chaplain of the Powerful, is engaged to a
daughter of Mr. J. Jackson, an architect of North
Sydney.
A piece of Limerick lace (made in Limerick),
with a design in Australian wild flowers, is in
possession of the nuns of St. Vincent’s. Said to
be one of the finest pieces in the hemisphere. It
will be shown at the forthcoming Women’s Work
Exhibition. There will also be exhibits from
the Parramatta woollen mills—beginning with
the raw material, and ending with a piece of the
cloth made for Lady Northcote. A Sydney girl
is binding the programme for the opening of the
Ex. for her Ex.
The State Governor, speeches, tea, and—in the
language of daily journalese—a large and dis-
tinguished gathering, all helped to make the por-
trait presentation to Alderman Allen Taylor a
live function. His State Ex., who made the pre-
sentation, said among other true and flattering
things, that “the works carried out during
Alderm tn Taylor’s period of office had certainly
made Sydney a much better place than it was
before. He congratulated the committee and
citizens on paying honor to one who so well
deserved it.” Also he said pretty things about
Mrs. Taylor’s capability as first civic citizeness.
He didn’t know that Sonny Forster Taylor has a
new motor car, in which he travels like greased
lightning slipping on orange peel, or he might
have advised Sonny to go slower for fear of not
inheriting the oil portrait of Pa. Many a good
portrait has gone out of the family through a wild
young heir trying to be too much like the son of
Nimshi.
Mr. Ken Mackenzie, of Brisbane, writes to say
that the statement of my Brisbane correspondent,
that he was recently married to Miss Gladys Hill,
is incorrect. But as he is engaged to the lady, and
as she is a lady that any man might be proud to
be engaged to, I can only say that I am sorry the
marriage hasn’t yet come off. I think it would
have been better to hurry up the happy event
than put me. to the trouble of this explanation.
The hats which the demi-mondaines of Long-
champs and Auteuil are wearing to-day, the
nicest and most virtuous hereabouts will be
attaching to their upright brows some twelve
months hence. That is an unchanging law of
fashion. The tiny headwear grotesques of
yester-year are doomed. This month and last,
mighty, umbrella-like structures dominated
the Paris grandstands and hid the faces of
Lutetia’s fairest. Frail trifles like cigarettes
are being discarded for hat ornamentation, and
cassowary and bustard wings are used in
their stead. In fact, the era is fast approaching
in these parts when the short, stout woman, who
staggers doggedly down the street bearing a
stuffed emu on her skull, will be acclaimed the
last cry in the world of dress. It is an appalling
prospect.
One of the new lamp-shade hats is pervading
Sydney on the head of a small woman. It is a
face-extinguisher in red silk, with a big silver rose.
The Franz Degens left by the Kleist for Euro-
pean parts, and Sydney is the darker for the loss
of two bright and attractive personalities. Mrs.
Degen is a beautiful little plump woman, to whom
life is all joy, and her pleasure in being alive is
good to look upon.
A friend sends me from London a glowing
compliment from The Spectator of April 13,
which says:—
Perhaps the greatest of colonial critical journals is the
Sydney Bulletin. Certainly that famous paper stands
easily first in respect of its influence on the social life of
which it is so powerful a reflection. In a sense, the Syd-
ney Bulletin is Australia.
This introducing a paragraph about The Lone
Hand. It makes for joy, since The Spectator
is certainly the finest of the British organs of—to
use a much-abused word—culture. Not cul-
chaw, which is quite a different thing.
By this morning’s mail two more picture post-
cards. One from “Tryphena,” who istwo-stepoing
about London. It shows the Marble Arch and a
patch of congested traffic—horse, foot, and
vehicle; and it writes me to “ Come along and be
fascinated. You’ll never tire of this great old
Hub.” The other is from Mrs. Walter Elkington,
and carries a rose, russet, and amber view of
Glarens (Heavenly Clarens, birthplace of young
Love. Look up your “ Childe Harold”), and re-
marks that “this is just the entrancing spot you’d
revel in.” Fancy writing those invitations to a
person who is sea-sick on a Mosman ferry boat I
A few additional lines from the last writer: “ All
veils have a border frill, and all shoulders slope
down towards the elbow. .. . Ten days after my
arrival in London I saw Ruby” (her niece, and
Melba’s daughter-in-law) “in a private hospital.
She is recovering from appendicitis. She looked
a dream of beauty, and her room was a bower of
roses and lilies of the valley. Melba, son George
and wife leave in August for Melbourne. The
Star has taken a house forty miles from that city
for six months.”
Miss Molly Owen, daughter of the Lange l
Owens, came out at the dance given by Lady
Northcote on Tuesday. It was an unmarried
damsels’ dance, and is understood to have been
given for Miss Owen, for whom her Federal Ex.
has a strong fancy. The dAbutante was at Mrs.
Hughes’s At Home for Marie Hall —a pretty,
round-faced girl. The beauty of the gathering
was Miss Bowker, a grand-daughter of Dr.
Bowker.
Mrs. Fitzgerald, widow of the well-known
circus proprietor, has been'in Sydney after a two
years’ absence, that made her heart grow fonder
of this good old city. For a year she has been
going to and fro on the European continent, look-
ing for circus novelties. Mrs. Fitz found them, and
is waiting for more, and in the spring will open in
Melbourne. Meantime, she goes to Maoriland to
have a few months’ rest with a sister who abides
in the Wellington district. Searching for the
trained pony, and the trick tiger, and the witty
clown, the india-rubber human, and the new
novelty which isn’t too old, must be fatiguing
graft. It will be remembered that Mr. Dan Fitz-
gerald died in Sydney, and some months later
Mr. Tom Fitzgerald succumbed in India. It was
a most disastrous year for the Fitzgerald co.
Six humans, eighteen ponies, and a lot of ele-
phants passed out within the twelve months.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide :
Adelaide Government House has come out of its long,
heavy sleep, and got into its best clothes to welcome
back her Ex., who returned from Britain last week. She’s
a very healthy Ex. after her jaunt. The one chick stays
in Germany at school.
Adelaide Society (for the prevention) of Arts is suffer-
ing from an Exhibition. It had its opening and catver-
sazione on Wednesday evening (12th), the exalted popu-
lace being invited for 8 o’clock, and the riff-raff and
tumultuous herd for 8.45. Also the aforesaid exalted
ones had fruit-salads and other delicacies upstairs
behind a closed door, while the riff-raff and squalid
multitude were fed upon buns and sandwiches
on the basement. Being one of the riff-raff,
I was unable to discover who were concealed behind the
closed door, more particularly as everyone with any pre-
tensions to ton seemed to be among the basement sand-
wich-eaters. They included a Commissioner and his
family, several consuls, all manner of moneyed sassiety
folk, and all the artists who had provided the exhibition.
The show itself is disappointing. Adelaide daubers
seem to have a distressing fondness for bright green land-
scapes and peacock-blue sea waves, and this year many
of them have added to the confusion by putting in
canvases painted in the dark ages and already exhibited.
A few exceptions make the show worth a glande. Will
Ashton, as usual, has done good work, and exhibits,
among others, a fine seascape entitled “Squally Weather.”
Julius Ohlson’s “Coast of the Sirens,” shown at last
Federal Exhibition, re-appears, and is certainly worth a
second view. The most interesting exhibitors of the
year are Misses Rose McPherson and Bessie Davidson,
lately returned from Paris, who show a number of striking
and delicately-painted studies that have already been
hung on the line at the Paris Salon and various other
places. Among them are a fine study of Flemish women,
some gorgeous hydrangeas, “The Studio Window” by
Miss McPherson, and a couple of original canvases of
Tangiers (Morocco) by Miss Davidson. The Hambidge
sisters are, as usual, well represented, and show portraits
of (among others) little Edith Le Hunte and Mrs. Herbert
Rymill. Rhoda Holder shows a clever portrait study
that lately won first prize at a Melbourne exhibition ; and
another successful she-dauber is Miss Constance Stuckey,
who also has foreign study behind her. Hans Heysen
exhibits a number of realistic-looking torrents, glaciers
and other wild things that abound in the Maori isles ;
George Webb has portraits of Sammy Way and Ed. T.
Smith. The only nude pictures are provided by H. P.
Gill, and they are pretty weird.
John Raymond Wilton, a nice Adelaide hoy of 23, has
secured the job of Fifth Wrangler in the mathematical
tripos at Cambridge (England). John was a pupil of
Prince Alfred College, where he collected all the avail-
able scholarships, prizes, etc., as freely as if they were
bottles. Then he went on to our little pet ’Varsity, still
raking in laurels, took his B.Sc. at the age of 19,
and went off to Cambridge with it. There he
won a sub-sizarship (I don’t know what kind of a
quadruped that may he, but it is worth £35). The next
year he gathered in a full-grown sizarship, worth £lOO a
year for three years, and now he has bolted with a major
scholarship in mathematics, valued at £lOO a year for 51-
years. Adelaide’Varsity is throwing up its learned hat.
The laureled youth is a son of journalist Wilton, of the
Advertiser, and is the second South Australian to climb
to these giddy heights of wrangler-ship. The other was
J. J. Stuckey, M.A., who did the deed in 1864.
Harold Parsons, Adelaide’s ’cellist, back from Germany,
'celled for the first time at the Conservatorium orches-
tral concert last week (he is now chief ’cell instructor at
that institution). The Kaiser-country has done marvels
fer him. Another success of the evening was the warb-
ling of Muriel Cheek, a sweet maiden of 19.
Wanda Radford, the Australian actress and wonder-
child, gave a recital in London last month before a
crowded house of titled and exalted folk, who showered
flowers, dolls, sweets and other trophies on her. ’Tis said
that the street outside the hall was strewn for miles with
carriages and haughty mobiles with powdered flunkeys
in attendance, and that the whole peerage came out of its
moated grange. Probably this is an exaggeration. The
child gave representations of Juliet, Portia, Fagin, Shy-
lock, and various other celebrated characters. Animme-;
diate result of the concert was that the kiddy was en-
gaged to perform at a dinner before the Connaught
royalties. The time is probably not far off when Edward
Rex himself will come down off his pedestal, and request
her to sing God Save him.
The Civil Ambulance Juvenile Matinee Ball
will occur on Wednesday, 26th inst. It will be an
attractive sight. A crowd of young silken hairs
and curled darlings will form a guard of honor
for the State Governor.
A girl, writing from Hay the Hot, tells that
Miss Marion Tyson (a niece of the famous Ernest)
is engaged to one of the Maidens (the wool swells)
of Sydney.
Certain amateur players from the Lands Office
gave a very clever representation of “Trial by
Jury” last Friday. (They’re funny dogs, these
Lands officials : you’d think they’d heard enough
of juries lately). Miss Jean Maclurcan, in an
Empire gown of white lace, brocade and silver,
as the plaintiff, made the Judge’s mad lapse from
judicial dignity quite excusable.
The Percy Buckleys of Melbourne are in
Sydney, and plunging into theheavymusical season
with apparent zest. Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Villiers
(he is M.P. for Brighton, Eng.) are staying with
Ex. Rawsons at Cranbrook. She is a sister
of Lady Chelmsford, and they are going to Queens-
land presently. The Wilders and their automo-
bile arrived to-day. Albani nestles at the Australia
Hotel. Last evening, at the Albani’s first concert,
the two Government House parties, and the
Admiral, and their respective suites, made a bril-
liant patch at the Town Hall. Albani still flutters
on to the stage with wings outspread, and re-
tains her trick of holding her arms rigidly down
and out in front of her, one small (left) hand laid
open with palm downwards under the thumb of
the right hand. She looks handsome and cheerful.
Husband Gye is a good copy of King Edward.
The Gyes are a most loyal pair.
Dr. MacCarthy’s opera, “Lady Nora,” will be
presented for copyright purposes next Saturday.
The doctor has composed both music and lyrics,
and the principal parts will be sung by Mrs.
Ernest Truman and Mr. Burns-Walker.
The Smaller Boy at Manly, son of Mr. Ernest
Laurance, the Little Boy at Manly, made his
dAbut at the Manly Hospital Ball, last Friday.
He is fourteen months old, and he wore the
tasselled hat, short coat, and high-waisted pants
with the patch on ’em that Hop’s pictures have
made famous.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
Thursday saw the return to the Government residence
of her Ladyship and bonny Du Cane. The chatelaine of the
Chelmsford menage is obviously not at all well, but cousin
Enid has taken on a new lease of youth. With the ladies
came a wonderful talking parrot, whose language, it is said,
is something ’orrible ! However, sweet-voiced Miss Scott,
of the cerulean eye, has been placed in charge of the
feathered heathen, whose vocabulary is toning down
wonderfully under her influence.
The Smart Set —smart for Brisbane, at all events—
rolled up in force on Thursday in response to an invite
from the Slade dame, and the pretty lawns and gardens
of Cooreelba were bright with winter hats. Afterall, no
engagement was announced, so presumably the hopes of
a gallant captain still hang in the balance, or the daugh-
ter of the house is still thinking it over. Grace Palotta,
in Assam silk and a dream of a hat, graced the scene.
The air *is thick with rumors of more fete, for the
General Hospital, this time. Meanwhile, the ladies of the
Bowen (Maternity) Home are forging ahead with their
benefit race-meeting, on July 6, which promises well.
Everyone who is anyone is hard at work upon a panel or
a plaque or some stitchery for the Women’s Exhibition,
in which it is confidently expected that the Queen State
will make a brave show. I’m sending a bit of crochet 50
years old myself, and the aged relic should take a bit of
beating.
Id was all very well for the local press to bark viciously
when N.S.W.’s Carruthers said that the Brisbane River
was full of vegetation, bub the statement wasn’t far ou t.
Last Saturday, perhaps as the result of Wednesday’s
rain, a fresh batch of the water hyacinth came down from
the Bremer, and blocked the ferry service in the town
reaches just at the busy 5 o’clock hour. If the Govern-
ment doesn’t get to work pretty smartly, and expend a
little of its Harbor and River funds on eradicating the
pest, there’s a hob time coming for it in the by-and-bve.
A certain parson I hear of allows his wife to employ
“ the fallen,” who is usually a strapping young woman,
whose infant is boarded out. In the ordinary course of
things her wages would be, at the very least, 10s. per
week, but, in the house of the good shepherd, “the
fallen ” gets 6s. The balance is made up with extra long
hours, and lengthy admonitions about her sins. One
lately spent a happy time of rest in a hospital, and
her ailment was simply overwork and misery. The
nurses petted her a bit, and when she was nearly con-
valescent, her reverend employer came—to inquire when
Mary could return to work, presumably still on 6s. per
week.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
It is comforting for Australia to know that
at the artillery headquarters (both Melbourne
and Sydney) there used to be employed two Jap
servants. They were the same Japs, and after
serving the officer man in Melbourne they came
up to Sydney and served the officer man here.
They were good, intelligent servants, too, and
probably what they don’t know now about Sydney
and Melbourne defences isn’t worth alluding to.
“Dejected” (which is a sorrowful pen-
name) holds forth from Adelaide :
I read with interest A. W. Hyman’s par (B. 6/6/’O7) re
fighting qualities of Russian Jews and their suitability
for settlement in Australia. Now, I don’t know much
about their fighting capacity, but I do know that for dirt
and indolence they can beat the Hindu or Chow easily.
I travelled through, and also lived amongst, whole
colonies of Russian Jews in Entre Rios, Argentina, and
of all the lazy, motley crews that have - settled out there,
the aggregate Abraham from Russia is the worst. It
will take Isaac Moscow about 200 generations to assimilate
up to the lowest standard of Australian coekydotn. I
have been brought in contact with nearly all the farming
colonies in America, and for good citizens I give my vote
to the Danes, Germans, Basques (from Spain), and
Italians. The Danes and Germans have assimilated, and
can fight into the bargain. So why wait for Abraham
Muscovy ?
London Morning Leader, a Freetrade
paper, had a curious cartoon re preferential bade
in its issue of May 7. The said picture showed a
miserable, emaciated woman, gaunt and hungry
under Freetrade; a pathetic baby, looking very
withered under Freetrade; a small boy who didn’t
seem to get enough to eat under Freetrade ; and
a small, depressed girl, who looked utterly
wretched under Freetrade. And to them a
large, prosperous-looking, Protectionist Alfred
Deakin was represented as saying : “ Surely
when we propose that your loaf should be
taxed to give us a preference, you are not
going to turn to us the cold shoulder.” The
moral obviously is that the policy which pro-
duced the wretched-looking family shouldn’t be
disturbed on any account, and that it is mere
effrontery, to offer advice to people who know
their business so well that they have filled the
country with 12,000,000 people just like the tired,
shabby wreck of a woman and the three hungry
children.


DUNLOP
m.
Always
Reliable
m
(c
Are Heels of Pure
Rubber that afford
GREAT COMFORT
At a SMALL COST.
Made in Afl Sizes, in Shaped.
Round and Wurtemburg Patterns.
Stocked by alt leading Boot Stores.
Only Accept *• DUNLOP" Brand®
THEY OUTWEAR ALL OTHERS.
Dunlop Rubber Co., Air states & wj.
Bag
It
DUNLOP
HOT
WATER
BAGS
Last many
Winters.
Winter
Comforts
There’s nothing that conveys so
much comfort for so little
money—as our Dunlop Bags.
Their cost is nothing as com-
pared to their worth. They
outwear the imported bag o* ing
to their Better Quality,
and being freshly made and free
from perish do not crack or
burst. They may cost you a
shilling or so more, but their
Quality Warrants it, for
a cheap bag gives poor service.
Obtainable all leading Stores or
Chemists, but accept only
“Dunlop" Brand which is
marked on all our bags. Failing
to obtain “Dunlop” Brand
kindly write us direct.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide. Perth,
i Brisbane. Christchurch. N.Z. j
buks
\s*
§
&
a®
o
b
CORtfJBXS
>SOMETrtING- 6VITE -NE.W-
I w jmL«JMPL
TMF 1?
f <kL JfrwlSf*' ■/
WORLD:
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 17, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie.—
“ St. Vincent’s ” is always the ball of the early
season, and Thursday’s was a successful climax to
the frantic planning and practising of many folk
for weeks and more. The Madden set was
worth much pictorially. “ Early Victorian
was the key-note, and the girls wore stun-
ningly short white muslin dresses that looked like
“Quality Street” with their small blue
bows. The ankles were exceedingly neat and
white stockinged, and the shoeing was black and
satin and old-time strapped. The shoulders were
particularly uncovered, and the hair piled up and
out like the frame of a picture. The men angles
of the set might have stepped out of Dickens.
The jolly Campbell captain was a blue-stocked,
blue-socked Pickwick. A Fitzgerald item wore a
green stock with his tight and early toggery. Aide
Vallange just hit the top note of an exquisite
with his carefully-tied white stock and frilly
linen; but his tight-and-early-Victorians made
him look like the long and lean Carlton of jug-
gling fame.
It was a night of “ sets ” ; Mrs. Ernest Brooke’s
Powder and Patches were exquisite and cold-
looking as a snow scene. A gay little agricultural
party wore peasant dress (more short frocks) and
carried hay forks that did delightful damage all
night. Many shepherdesses and Dresden china
folk “ setted ”to partners on their own. It was
nearly eleven before the dancers-in-chief got into
swing. It was too cold and early for “sitting-
out ” without the exhilaration of just one turn,
and later poor Edwin and Angelina had to dance
brilliantly to keeptheir blood in circulation, while
the shepherdesses and hay-rakers gazed at the
stars from sentimental and shadowy corners.
The Alliance Frangaise gave the cunningest
little party on Friday evening. It was in the
Independent Hall, of the Independent Church —
which sounds grim and staid; but under the
magic hands of the hostesses (Mesdames Mas-
seran and Tobin) the whole, effect was dainty and
Parisian. Dead-and-gone clergymen, in solemn
portraiture round the walls, coldly watched
the French frivol. Cute drapings of tri-
color and blazing touches of massed scar-
let geranium brightened the Sombre walls. Mrs.
Janson sang from St. Saens’ “Samson and
Delilah,” and someßomances of Chaminade ; also,
in duet with Napoleon Boffard, she sang from
“II Trovatore.” Mrs. Charbonnet-Kellermann
(who is the proud mother of the graceful mermaid
Annette) played. She is leaving for England, and
medico Crevelli speeched for the Alliance a
regretful farewell. The beautiful little lady
answered for herself in lightning French. With
pretty gesture she declared that Victorians were
most kind to musical artists; they “put the
singing birds into such sweet golden cages that
the birds did not care to fly away again.” An
orchestra gave a good account of itself. It was
called the Victorian Soft Goods Orchestra, but
it had nearly as much brass as the Besses, and
might quite easily have been the Ironmongery or
Hard Ware Band.
The favored few who gained access to the inner
chamber where the Women’s Exhibition posters,
diplomas and medals were displayed last week,
had an illuminating time. There’s nothing better
on the hoardings than the best of the
work. At its worst, it shatters for ever
the i'lusion that women have no sense of humor.
Angels figure largely on all the posters unblessed
by artistic skill. Draw your own inferences.
First prize goes, of course; to Bendigo. “ The
Athens of Australia” always makes a nuisance
of itself in competitive examinations. The poster,
which depicts a row of winsome young things in
pastel shades tripping along to somewhere, will
presently gladden the landscape from the Gulf to
the Bight, etc. Number two is a starchy blue
amazon, with dawn-lit domes and a yellow
sky behind her, a really fine lady for advertis-
ing purposes. The sister of a big black-and-
white man draws third prize, with a wonderfully
clever bit of work. Every known industry is
represented by a fair maid, modern to her finger-
tips. She has grouped these to form an absolutely
correct map of Australia. A florist’s triumph
forms Cape York, a plate of cakes much of the
Northern Territory, the fall of a skirt Port
Phillip, and a shawl Port Adelaide. It is mag-
nificent, but it isn’t proper poster work according
to the committee’s notions. The artist, however,
carries off first prize for diplomas. A South Aus-
tralian artist gets first for medals, a well-known
sculptor coming second.
The University Rowing Club ball, on Monday
night, had quite a lot to say for itself. There
was a large percentage of verdant youth in the
mazy throng, and almost half-a-hundred “ debs ”
blossomed out on this rose-bowered occasion. A
tall, good-looking student, who has made much
splash recently in Trinity exams., engineered the
debutantes’ set, which was managed quite thea-
trically and for one turn held the whole of the
floor space—excepting the official set (led by the
Chance-Excellency) at the other end of the ball-
room. The combined deb ballet carried silver
shepherdess crooks, with vegetable attachments
that threatened danger to any “ transformations ”
and “extra” curls which got into their vicinity.
A giddy whirl it was, softly lighted and well
suppered.
Some of the dressing was gorgeous. I saw a
woman of grace and soft grey hair, in a kimono
embroidered with blue silk —the white cherry petals
might easily have just fallen with a breeze. Little
Leslie Madden made a blooming re-appearance in
blushes and a pink gown. Quite a tired-looking
Ruby wore black, and Mrs. Madden herself
smiled sweetly from a frame of softest blue crepe.
Mrs. Vallange, by the way, mothered the party,
and hustled the aides in the intricate maze of the
“opening” set.
At the University ball Dame Forrest arrived
early, with a jolly budget of young folk ready for
a good time. Bigjohn was to follow with a man
party of Westralians and Bananalanders, whom he
was dining lavishly. Time sped along, and it
took all the little Dame’s smiles and wiles to
make up for the non-appearance of the Acting
Prime Minister. His party included several
notables, and the dance-secretaries and the aides
were tying themselves into knots arranging a to-be
official set in correct placement. All their study
seemed for nothing, when, just on the stroke of
twelve, like a conglomerate Cinderella, the dinner
party arrived in most jovial mood, and the wearied
secretaries roused themselves for one last effort
over the much-postponed Lancers. Carriages had
been ordered for twelve, but chauffs. shivered and
coachmen grumbled till three o’clock, when the
elevated (this means the high and mighty) dancers
at last consented to be toted home.
A clever little Melbourne hospital nurse won
much praise last week. It was her “day off,”
and she was out in her best bib and tucker vvhen
a street accident roused her professional instinct.
It was a case of cut artery. Pushing the useless
crowd aside, the little hospital maid knelt down,
whipped off her garter, bound the injured man’s
arm, and fixed him up just as the ambulance
arrived. She saved the man’s life. He should
be thanking his lucky stars that the prompt small
personage was conservative in her hose-gear. A
“suspender” would have been no use—and
awkward to detach, anyhow.
Dr. Crevelli, the man of the many hand-
some sons, has just bought Gordon Lyon’s
great estate. Since old Gordon’s death, three
years ago, young Gordon has cut well into his
money, and none of it went to the up-keep of the
fine old place. Old Gordon Lyon spent time and
thought and much legal tender on improvements
—especially an extensive irrigation scheme.
These have been left to crumble. Dr. Crevelli is
doing much to tone things up. The house is to
be completely refurnished, and the big and hos-
pitable family will divide its time between there
and the red dwelling of suburbia.
Colonel Ricardo was accepted as a “ first-class
life ” the week before his death, when he increased
his policy by £lOOO. The knowledge of this fact
inspired him with such confidence in his physical
soundness that he went a-hunting again after a 10
years’ spell, and met his death. The Colonel died
poor, and his widow is fortunate in possessing a
father able and willing to provide handsomely for
her and her children.
A rich and generous father is a convenient asset,
whether the occasion is one of weal or woe. One
of the prettiest homes on Mount Macedon has
been presented as a wedding gift by Mr. Hogg to
his daughter, who married Mr. Norman Smith.
Just now Melbourne is roused up to a spasm of
interest in the boarded-out babies. Miss Suther-
land, this city’s expert on the reclamation of
neglected children, is besieged by questioners
anxious to air her views as their own. Said
whole-hearted lady, with a houseful of infants
and a yardful of milking cows to look after, must
find it pretty galling when her scant leisure is
intruded upon by voluble experts anxious to im-
press spinster Sutherland with their alleged
superior instinct for nursery economy. “I’ve had
a husband, and brought up three children,
you know, Miss Sutherland,” purred one tabby,
complacently. “I’ve had no husband, and I’ve
brought up 3000 bairns; what d’ye think o’ that ? ”
was the Hielan’ woman’s spirited rejoinder.
From “Tryphena,” in London :
The junket starts to weary one. There’s such a mono-
tony about the magnificent spread, and the ducal host or
the honorable hostess is only the same common or garden
man or woman, plus a label. The Marchioness isn’t any
different from the rich Mrs. If at all different, it’s to the
advantage of the Mrs. The Marchioness is often a per-
sonage of late hours, of a rackety-gorgeous life, of acute
nerves and frayed digestion, of a w rinkled cheek and a
feverish heart. In the morning, Time taunts her,
and the mirror calls out on her haggardness. At
night, the Graces cluster round, and do her homage at
the toilette table. By the time she is upholstered and
completed she is a picture (a sort of reverend, beauti-
ful Ruin), and she goes forth like an academy gem, to find
her place in the line of distinction. The plainly labelled
Mrs. has started to racket later in life, and so has a
healthy youth to back her middle-aged dissipation. In-
variably the beauty of any of these crushes is the Mrs., and
the gorgeous old painted Ruin is the Marchioness.
In the frilly legion aswarm at the Brewery Tooths’
shivoo the other night, at the most costly hotel here-
abouts, I caught a glimpse of the Rupertswood grass-
widow. Mayfair has added a whole heap of arti-
ficiality to the appearance, if not the personality,
of the lady. All the same, the intelligent beauty
makes good in any company. At the Tooths’ she had
garbed her elegance in ivory chiffons, and illuminated
herself with a dizzy array of diamonds. In her chocolate
tresses, among the alluring crimps and ripples, the stones
flashed with any amount of bold splendor. She has her
place fixed in this cosmopolitan Vanity Fair, and it’s a
high place. An exalted English official as much as said
that the lady had achieved in a few Mayfair seasons what
some Yank sausage-merchants and soup-kings had taken
a gross of years to accomplish. Personality, the clothes
art, and the delicious tiny doll house of a mansion in
Park-lane have worked the trick.
The Osterley Park show of the Jerseys drew the Aus-
tralians together in strong force the other Saturday.
And the rain, which raineth every day in Merrie
England, actually held off. I saw the Josiah Symons
bunched together in a dull trio. The Adelaide Marm is
highly intelligent, but her style is that of a very modest,
hard-working housekeeper, who wants only to look tidy
and talk horse-sense to politicians. Miss Symon is a chip
of the maternal block, with this difference—that she
doesn’t want to talk. Premier Bent waddled about the
historic green lawns of Osterley with a fat-handled brolly
in his fist. Tummy has a way of waddling at scrambles
of this sort that is droller than Harry Lauder’s
screaming Tivoli turn. Even Oom Bill Lyne gropes into
position with more grace, with some knowledge, and with
a sullen determination to “ arrive.”
The Agents-General and their wives are getting no end
of a good time. They do all the year round. The
Taverners are the sleekest and smuggest of the lot.
I rushed to see how the Australians fared at the 1907
Academy. I was disappointed. There’s only one of
Longstaff’s, and this is a mere color-effect in clothes,
though it’s called “ A Woman’s Portrait.” The Countess
of Eldon is the person in pigment, and whether her
severe nobleness or her dress burden (leagues of velvet
trail about and around her) is answerable for the wooden-
ness of the pose, it’s impossible to say. But it is wooden.
I liked immensely a bit of life and color in a Simon
Vedder picture—“ Girl with a Mandolin.” The Venetian-
like hussy looks out from the canvas with mocking eyes
and parted lips on which the words of impudence still
hang. The whole has feeling, character and the life glow.
It is real Girl—not Pigment.
Percy Spence has a drab, dull, dreary gentleman sub-
ject for his one Academy laurel. It’s the Admiral of the
Fleet—Sir E. H. Seymour. The clever Percy has curiously
chosen a drab background for his drab Admiral, and the
cleverness of its treatment (it is clever) is discounted.
To Bertram Mackennal the largest Australian praise is
due. His three exhibits in the Sculpture division are
examples of his improving art. One—memorial to Peter
Nicol Russell—is a colossal work of fine skill and excep-
tional feeling. In a statue dubbed “ Diana Wounded,”
the Australian has effected another fine bit of work. It’s
a delicate but beautiful goddess, with a cut limb, which
she bandages with slow care—her whole bending body as
she does so expresses shrinking pain. It’s a graceful idyll
sn marble. A third exhibit reaches the idealistic stage,
jt’s a large clump of marble, with four female figures
chiselled at close intervals round about it —or, rather, in
it. The title, “ Earth and the Elements,” leaves one still
guessing.
The canvas round which Mayfair crushes closest, and
the critics gnaw their moustaches hardest, and the casual
stranger gasps longest, is the sen-ational work of F.
Cadogan Cowper. It took me two-and-a-half-hours to
squeeze a way in through the first day’s damp crush.
The wait wasn’t wasted. It is a bold dramatic shock in a
Gallery where the landscape stretches, tiresomely green,
and the “ Portrait of Milady ” wearies with its magnifi-
cent dulness. In a convent cellar (it’s little better), Satan,
disguised as a vagrant troubadour, having been fed by
some charitable nuns, sings them a song of love. Beneath
a gloriously-illustrated stained-glass window the dingy
devil, with troubadour trappings and his strong, evil face
in profile, twangs and tootles passionately to the sister-
hood, who, their meal finished, are sitting around on their
plain wooden benches, listening. The groupingis a, delight-
ful effect. They cluster into a small space, turning their
faces full on the warbler. And every face is alive
with feeling. On some, disgust and white fear have twisted
the features all awry. On others, a dawning light of
wonder breaks. On" some, a dumb prayer is written
deep. On the younger, a new mad joy leaps and laughs,
dimpling the rounded faces. One or two black figures
crouch, faces hidden, on the ground. The whole canvas
is alive.
The social sensation of the present Anglo-Australian
tour is the arrival of Mrs. Luke, of vigneron fame, and
her sudden engagement as Miss D’Arcy Lane, on the
Gaiety boards." The beauteous Melbournian has no
knowledge of stage life and no singing voice, to my
knowledge. She may have acquired one in the Medi-
terranean, where most other feminines acquire husbands
or evil reputations. You pick up all sorts of things on a
sea voyage. It says much for Mrs. Luke’s looks that she
was only a week in this over-burdened hub of idle theat-
ricals when she was booked.
Mrs. Charbonnet-Kellermann is off to join her
amphibious daughter. The mermaid Annette lias
an engagement in the States that is going to
take a lot of worry off her good little mother’s
shoulders.
That versatile actor-man, Gaston Mervale,
appears in some new rdles shortly. He joins one
of Meynell and Gunn’s new companies, to produce
their plays, stage-manage, and play the heavy
vil-lain (ha-ha !) into the bargain. The public is
bidden to sit up straight and pay attention to his
efforts. We are to have a taste of the great
Belasco’s methods of play-direction, mixed with
Mervale’s own ideas, and memories of his classy
French training. The ingenuous girls who know
h im slightly, and who suffer from stage-mania, pur-
pose rushing him for engagements. They maintain
that he’s really quite a tame and gentle animal, in
spite of his facial suggestion of a Corsican brother,
or someone of that sort.
A forthcoming benefit concert at Melbourne
Town Hall is to have the patronage of all the
resident aristocracy of music. The heroine of the
occasion will be Miss Caroline Rudd, a young
pianiste who represents the teaching of Mrs.
Charles Heath and Marshall Hall’s Conserva-
torium. Her concert programme is Hall-marked
on every link. The Conservatorium orchestra
will be there, likewise Miss Elva Rogers, Miss
Harrington, young Amadio the flautist, and
Bertie Zelman, who does Australia proud on the
violin. As for the list of patrons, it is a guarantee
of a large and toney audience.
The Norman Menzies have gone to live in
Alma-road, East St. Kilda. Mr. M. has bought
the house owned by the late Alfred Joseph, and
called by him “ Sandhurst,” after the city which,
for a time, had the old name of Bendigo dragged
from it against its will—a fine big house, with
good old trees in the garden.
Tittell Brune, tragedienne, leaves us in Sep-
tember to recuperate her art and search for flesh.
The managerial trio got the lady to tour “smalls”
for a month over the period of her contract, just
to oblige them. Whereat “her girls” call the
management cruel.
A lace-worker of much art, Mrs. Bolton
Houghton, gathers up some of her masterpieces,
and shows them at the Women’s Exhibition.
Mrs. Houghton is the most successful of local
amateur exponents of Irish crochet. The lay
woman, whose knowledge of lace-making is
limited to seeing a thready dream grow under
clever fingers, is completely staggered at such
infinite application and intricate art as crochet
demands. Mrs. Houghton is the proud possessor
of draperies whose patterns have been copied
from historic vestments, and most enviable
extravagances in the shape of boleros, scarves,
and all the other ecstatic details that make a frock
worth wearing.
The Corot which the National Gallery has lately
acquired for the amount of a small fortune is a
privileged possession we may well be proud of.
The subject, “ The Bent Tree,” offered the master
inspiration for a lyric in pigments. The quiet
scene which flows into a far horizon, the mass of
foliage, and the one scarred leafless tree which
bends across the canvas, say the last word for im-
pressionistic landscape. There is an atmosphere
of reality about all, yet a suggestion of charm and
mystery emanates from the picture which en-
thralls. Curiously enough, while connoisseurs
inveigh against its purchase, and deprecate its
beauties, that section of the community which
calls it “a Cor-rott,” appreciates it more justly.
Members of that section arrive at the gallery in
battalions, and say “Ain’t it lovely !” in chorus.
The hour of cut prices and bargain hats having
arrived, I and another cat went forth to spend
more than either of us could afford, and bring
home some prizes for our vanity. She said:
“Really, dear, sales are worth attending, even if
you don’t buy anything. I find that they’re more
reducing than Turkish baths.” That was an irre-
sistible bait. I wanted a hat—a becoming, unique,
and inexpensive lid, which would take me any-
where. At the first shop we went to, I found it.
It was a seductive concoction of fruit, flowers,
feathers, and felt, marked half-price, and, with it
on, I felt just It. The other cat saw that this
was so, and said: “My dear! You wouldn’t be
foolish enough to buy a thing like that! Why, it
makes you look positively vulgar.” I was dissuaded
by her deceit, and let it go. She paid a deposit
on it herself, while I was in the underclothing
department. Then I saw the whole truth. That
hat must have suited me exquisitely. She per-
suaded me to buy a coat suitable to a decrepit old
maid, and she changed a blouse-length of merce-
rised silk with me for a sequined scarf. I bought
335. worth of nothing in particular, and never met a
single hat under three guineas, barring the one
already mentioned, that wouldn’t shame me in
the wearing. I’ve quarrelled with her, and the
mercerised blouse-length won’t wash. All my
available cash has wasted away, and a woman
pulled two tail» off my muff and.spoilt it. Moral:
Don’t go with another cat to bargain sales. Go
by yourself—by your own cat, so to speak.
A small but “ correct ” audience turned up for
Albani. Just the sort one would expect from
adorers of everything “beloved by the Queen.”
The company includes good talent, but has? hope-
lessly old-fashioned provincial English atmosj here.
Albani is a Reputation. She clings to the .'ear
old fashion of running on and off the platform, end
repeats the ultra-dramatic gestures which she
learned of yore in the Italian opera school. She
is dressed just as beautifully and correctly as a
fine French doll. A dapper little tenor, with a
manly voice, and a long limbed, solemn-looking
contralto help things along; but the life of the
programme are violinist Haydn Wood, and festive
little Australienne Myrtle Meggy (Meg Myrtle
would suit her piquante style), who plays the
piano prettily enough.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


United Service Magazine (Eng.) on Im-
perial naval defence: —
The colonial contributions to the Imperial Navy are at
once too little and too much. Too little because they do
not amount to the cost of a single battleship; and too
much because they really constitute a contradiction of
the cherished British principle that taxation and repre-
sentation should go hand-in-hand. We must trust our
colonies wholly if we desire reciprocal treatment, and
every Briton knows that we can trust them. The prin-
ciple of assisting by contributions alone is out of date
and vicious.
There is more than one way to cure a
cough, but the best way is by means of Angier’s
Emulsion, because it not only soothes the lungs
and cures the cough, but also improves digestion,
and acts as a soothing tonic to the entire system.
In three sizes, of all chemists.*
Waiters at the Gate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are waiting on the strand of our undefended
land,
Just a nation of Micawbkrs, young and old ;
Man and ,woman, girl and boy. expectation is our
joy,
We are quite unique, a wonder to behold
As we watch, with folded hands, from these
silver-crested sands,
For an imminent millennium, maybe,
While the Fates, untiring, spin weft and warp to
wrap us in—
- Webs, perhaps, to prison folk who will not see.
Dilatory dreamers all, deaf to threat or duty’s
call,
Hugging sundry cherished fetishes to heart,
As all-placidly we purr, “ Surely something must
occur
To make needless any effort on our part.
Heaven’s help our course shall guide, with the
Dear Old Land beside,”
Quite forgetting, as assuredly we do,
Heaven’s aid is for the man who his own career
.can plan,
And then strives amain to put that programme
through.
Here’s a country with no fleet, and an “army”
that, if neat
In its serviceable trappings on parade,
Is so very sparse and small that it scarelv weighs
at all
As a counter when the game of war is played.
And its rifles are but few, and are nearly worn-
out, too,
While it will not make munitions for itself —-
Local powder, shell and shot would, it grumbles,
“ Cost a lot ”
Holding safety aye subordinate to pelf.
But, in consequence, the fate of this white man’s
ultimate
And non-garrisoned, lone outpost seems to shake
In a balance with a slope to a quarter where
there’s scope
For developments to make the boldest quake.
Still, unheedful of the gibes of the rampant
colored tribes
That are threatening to close us in their ring.
We keep looking very sage, while around the
heathen rage,
And remark that “They imagine a vain
thing.”
So we sit and meditate at the Yellow Peril’s Gate,
Self-disparaged, and impervious to shame,
And one hardly likes to say what may happen on
the day
When the smoke beyond us kindles into flame.
Shall we fists and feet oppose to the lethal-
weaponed foes
Whose encroachment we should any time
expect ?
When their guns in battle bang, can we throw
the boomerang?
Or the waddy wield with conquering effect ?
From a vulnerable shore, as our fathers did
before —
Scarce a whit more self-reliant than were they—
We are looking over sea, through the mists of
Yet-To-Be,
For protection by a people far away.
Dwellers in a distant land, who, beset on either
hand
With impediments and problems of their own,
May not over-keenly care in the hour of our
despair
How a parasite's redemption they postpone.
N.S.W.
TALAFEKAU.
J- Y. Chataway, the Queensland politician,
whom the Argus acknowledged as the author of
its articles on the Northern Territory, while the
S.M. Herald printed them as from its own
“ special commissioner,” ground his little axe in
the last of the series. He denounced the pro-
posed transfer of the Territory as “a bad bar-
gain,” because S. Australia stipulates that the
transcontinental line shall be finished. Chataway,
as a man whose billet depends on Queensland
votes, wants the line to wander across to Camoo-
vveal, and then go on wandering until it strikes a
line that wanders out from Cairns. What parti-
cular good to Australia a line would be that
wandered between Port Darwin and Cairns,
Heaven only knows. What there would be for it
to carry even Heaven doesn’t know. The rail
that links Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane runs up only as far north as Rockhamp-
ton, and after you crawl out of Rockhampton you
are three days’ steam before you can crawl along-
side the Cairns mudbank. For a “ Defence” line
Chataway’s isn’t a route ; it’s a joke.
+ ; ■
The lords of the Western District of Victoria,
though they fence out the settler, don’t counter-
balance matters to even a small extent by in-
creasing the capacity of the country to carry
sheep. In Follett county, of which only one acre
in every 130 is cultivated, the number of sheep is
actually dwindling; and in the other western
counties the growth is trifling. Yic. Government
.Statist Drake’s 1907 figures show that the big
increases have been in the Mallee and Wimmera
—the two districts in which agricultural settle-
ment has also been largest. So the returns prove
over again that you don’t crowd out sheep by
crowding on men, but the very opposite. If the
Western District squatter held back settlement by
growing more sheep (the jumbuck is a useful
animal, although it hasn’t shown any disposition
so far to bite an invader), it would be something
in his favor; but the only thing he really does
grow is more intolerable.
“0.K.”: Australian cigar manufacturers, as is
now officially remarked for the first time, are even
less true to themselves and their own products than
the hatters, bootmakers, etc. The hatters and
bootmakers merely refrain from stamping their
goods with an unmistakable Australian label or
trade-mark. Purchasers are tacitly invited to
accept the local for an imported article,if they beof
the Stinking Fish persuasion. But there is not, as a
rule, any deliberate pretence of foreign manufac-
ture in the branding of the local hat or boot.
The Australian-made cigar, on the other hand, is
marked under strictly fraudulent conditions. The
labels and bands are made in Germany, and the
language of their adoption is Spanish. Seemingly
it has just occurred to the Acting Minister of
Customs, that the Tariff’s encouragement of cigar
manufacturing in Australia was not intended to
encourage the importation of mock Spanish
printing from Germany.
“Dico” writes from the spot :
I can quite agree with “ Wusslean ” (B. 2/5/’O7) in re-
gard to the invisible townships in Victoria’s Western
District. I had the miserable misfortune to get a shift
to one of these places about six months ago; and have
ever since been looking for the village. So far, I have
unearthed a school (held in a rickety church building),
and two or three isolated and bumble-looking dwellings.
The rest, as far as regards signs of human habitation, is
as Pompeii was after Vesuvius had done throwing
muck about. There is not even a store or post-
office, and the nearest pub is 22 miles off. Yet
the place is marked on all the maps as a town-
ship, and the squire-worshipping inhabitants tell me that
it was surveyed and sold in I-acre blocks about 30 years
ago. It is a splendid site for a town, well-drained, and
right on the shores of Victoria’s inland sea, Corangamite,
I have never struck a healthier spot. The salt air would
make a confirmed dyspeptic long for pork and cabbage,
and the soil and rainfall are quite as good as in the famous
Lancefield district. The numerous lakes around (both
salt ami fresh) are teeming with all kinds of wild ducks
and geese.
But, alas! the squatter-octopus spreads his loving
arms over the surrounding country for leagues. From
here to Camperdown (22 miles) the traveller passes but
two dwellings—a boundary-rider’s hut and a farm-house.
And it’s just as bad in all other directions.
I’ve looked at the question from all points of view,
and there’s only one practical solution—compulsion by
means of a Federal graduated land-tax; and if that
doesn’t come, and soon, then Goo help Australia !
A slight digression to wind up. Next to me dwells an
old man who, for the last 28 years, has been employed on
a neighboring station. Lately he has been labbit-ex-
terminator at 17s. (id. a week, finding his own horse, cart,
dogs, ferrets, &c. Well, yesterday the kind squire rode
up to him in the paddock where he vvas working, and
bluntly told him to go, as lie was getting too old. I just
relate that because we hear so much of the generosity,
charity, and g-eneral kindliness of land-snatchers. Isn’t
it amazing! Everyone can plainly see the disastrous
effects of squatter-occupation, everyone hears the loud
howl for land, and should clearly understand by this time
the utter futility of voluntary sale ; yet McDougall,
M.11.R., couldn’t get a seconder for his'motion in favor
of compulsory purchase at a Progress (O, Lord !) Associ-
ation meeting. Mr. McD. had better get away from that
kind of Ass.
Mining in Queensland used to be a deadly busi-
ness ; but less casualness, or more State inspection,
or the introduction of harder planks at the gaols
THE SACREDNESS OF AGE.
DAIRY INSPECTOR (to cocky): “ Your premises are very dirty , I'm sorry to say.”
COCKY: Oh, that's old dirt. It was there afore the Act come in."
which yawn for over-careless managers, or some-
thing, has diminished the tombstone-maker’s little
jobs. From 1878 to 1883 one miner out of everv
267 employed was killed every year; so, before
those four years were over, one out of every 67
was a corpse in a grave. Nowadays the annual
harvest is about one in 550 ; last year things were
good, and there was only one in 739. But even
that figure isn’t as healthy as the record in
N.S. Wales, where it took 943 miners to provide
one inquest last year. This is in metal mines
only. The coal-miner takes worse chances ;
on an average for 20 years, one man in 420 fails to
dodge death in each 12 months. But as death is
liable to come into the coal mines in large lumps,
the figures are erratic ; in 1902. for example, every
125th man in N.S.W. was sent for. When the
coal-miner has a strike, and won’t give in, and
pretty often won’t listen to reason in the end, the
shivering public that didn’t get in a stock of fuel
before the agents ran up the price says that the
coal-miner is an obstinate animal. And when one
looks at figures like the above, it seems a mighty
good thing that he is an obstinate animal. If he
wasn’t, he might be scared right out of the busi-
ness, and then the public would do a lot of
shivering.
The Miners’ Association of "Victoria needs shaking
up. Local conditions of employment are, in many
cases, scandalous. Yet the organisation offers
next to no protection, and possesses about as much
political force as a penny bun. Only about 6000
out of 30,000 odd persons engaged in the mining
industry appear on the rolls of the association,
and these 6000 make no attractive bid to the odd
24,000 who should come in. Things being so, Greed
and Co. can afford to refuse to confer with the
A.M.A. on such life-and-death questions as reason-
able hours of toil in hot workings. The Ballarat
Mine-Owners’ Association has stonily refused to
consider anything proposed for the betterment of
miners’ conditions, which, perhaps, was only to be
expected when starving tributors jump at a
chance of getting ss. a “shift. Also, the Mine-
owners’ attitude is the result of the compliance
shown by certain officials of the A.M.A. to the
wishes of Greed and Co. that there should be no
affiliation with the Trades Hall. Nobody believes
in the yarn about the hardships borne by the call-
payer in the interests of suffering humanity ; for
the call-payer always expects to get his money
back with interest added, and call-payers as a
body are above the suspicion of doing good by
stealth. The A.M.A. wants rejuvenating, and if
there are any brains in the outfit they should
adopt a forward policy of organisation, scoop in
the ‘‘poor tributor,” and make the A.M.A. a
power. Then it could begin to talk back to
Greed and Co.
-
That charming person, the big landlord, who
loves all mankind as a brother, is aghast at the
vile person who wants to break up estates and
settle people in farms and homes of their own,
and turn out the sheep that are on the land now.
A. Beviss, of Dorset Park (S. Aus.), is the
charming person in this case. Says he to the
Register :
Mr. Price told the electors at Gumeracha that we
wanted more men and less sheep—in other words, he
told them they were not paying enough for their meat.
Fewer sheep mean 7d. per lb. for mutton,
ihe thoughtfulness of the landlord for the poor—
he just keeps sheep where men ought to be so that
meat may be cheap for them ! He doesn’t explain
that meat at 7d. would be cheaper to a man who
was earning Bd. than meat at sd. is to a man who
is blocked from earning 4d. Also, the kind land-
lord makes a mistake about men driving off
sheep. Close settlement breeds sheep as well as
men. In Maoriland, in 1880, they only had
15,174,203 sheep. At the end of 1905 they had
19,130,875, notwithstanding that, in the previous
five years alone, 29,951,390 carcases and sheep were
exported. In other words, after 14 years of close
settlement, Maoriland was, in the next five years,
able to export just upon twice as many sheep and
lambs as it began with, and still have larger flocks
than it had when closer settlement started. Also,
in Victoria, as the Government Statist lately
pointed out, the increase in flocks is taking place
only in the districts where small settlement's in
progress. Where the big-landlord curse sits, even
sheep-breeding stagnates.
“ Mallet ” writes from Westralia
I don’t want to be classed as one of the Stinking- Fish
pa,rty, but I don’t believe in bringing people here under
false pretences. The fact is that in very few places are
blocks of good land of any size to be found at all, the
country being patchy, and intermixed with scrub land
and sand plains. Bui where good consistent ground is
to be found it is all taken up, mostly by the land-
grabbers who are keeping the country back.
The best agricultural land is found in the Great Southern
and South-Western Districts. The country around
Northam, Meckering and Grass Valley (absolutely the
pick of the lot) is practically cut up between Tiirossell
and the Dempsters. From York to Beverley we have
Monger ; from Wagin downwards there are the Piesses ;
in the Williams is Hammersley ; in Bunbury, Forrest.
So that if one wants land, he has to go out from 30 to 50
miles from the line to find it.
The “ Selectors’Guide,” issued by the Government, is
particularly misleading. All the districts from Narrogin
to Albany are described in it as having “good roads,”
when, as a matter of fact, with the exception of the old
convict-made Perth-Albany highway, there are no roads
at all. They are merely tracks. And the published
reports re wheat yields are quite misleading.
I should like to see this country opened up and go
ahead, but that will not be, seemingly, until we stop
electing Daglishes, Rasons, and Newton Moores, and
until we get the Federal graduated land-tax. When that
time arrives, we can honestly invite outsiders to come and
settle on the land, but until then there are plenty of
unfortunates here waiting for the bit of soil they
can’t get.
4.
Agriculture is now a science subject in 40
Victorian State schools. The infant first takes
nature study ; when he reaches the third class he
can specialise agriculture till he is 14 ; then he
can take a course at an Agricultural High School;
after that he can go to the University and take a
degree in Agricultural Science. Subsequently, he
can take a microscope and look for a land-tax that
would provide him with the land, without which
all his school-learning is valueless; and when he
hasn’t.found it he can finally take his swag and
streak for Queensland.
The afflicted all fly to it,
The suffering cry for it,
Sing praises high for it,
It can ensure
Protection from chills,
Chest troubles and ills,
Keep down doctor’s bills—
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is wider-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, ivhether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Fred Davison: Comparison of the divergent
views in the two essays adjudged the best should con-
vince you that there was no intention to suppress views
contrary to Bulletin policy... .M.R.A. : Unsuitable
Ambitious: You can acquire a good prose style only by
growing- into one. Read the best modern writers —if your
taste doesn’t tell you which are the best modern writers,
you needn’t worry about literature. If your thinking is
clear, your style will be lucid. Aim always at simplicity
and directness. Style is nothing in itself; its sole use is
to express yourself. Sorry we can’t be more explicit
R. Dupp. : Should say it was plain, bald, naked swindle.
You can’t teach that art by post any more than you can
fight 10 rounds by telegraph... .Cygnet: Well, quite a
lot of mayors spell themselves “mare”....J. Nordon :
Ask the gentleman for the date. Possibly some cor-
respondent said so. Can’t remember all the things that
every correspondent has said.... Olla Podrida: Thought
those two anecdotes were quite dead VY.B.K. : The
“violet” and the “subtle perfume” and the “dainty
feet ” and the “ soft eyes ” and the “ sweet music of the
lyre” are all right, but they don’t lead anywhere
Oorydon: Don’t think you’ve improved it....Awood:
A very slight variation of a recent Bulletin dog yarn
Ether : Tale is perfection of the commonplace, the banal,
the ordinary, the hackneyed, f.a.yed, and generally used-up.
Verse pretty good, but too precipitous... .E.: “Magpies’
Song” spoiled by ineffective rhymes and other things.
For instance, “see” and “sea,” “drowsily” and
“seemly,” are heroic efforts... .S.G. (Bendigo): The sen-
timents are noble, but all the geological terms we know
won’t describe the rockiness of the metre. . .CJ.E.M. :
The illegitimate baby is an old subject, and you make no
new remarks thereon..... Joan : Poetic feeling in them,
but style very youthful and amateurish... .X.Y.Z. :It is
his son’s photo. Thought that joke was extinct Goril:
They didn’t hook on—neither of them.... Brooke: Well,
here's one verse of your “Sunset,” as a horrible warning
and an example :
What is more grand or inspiring than viewing
A sunset, a sunset as I see,
The deep-red rays of a departing luminary,
Casting- its glorious splendor and magnificence
Over a foatn-fiecked ocean, reflecting-
A delicate rose-colored radiance,
Awakening emotions foreign to me.
... .C.R.N. : Two old jests, one about a hen and the other
about a policeman A.S.G. : Your “Policy of Pro-
tection ”is full of dreadful figures. Only read as far as
your remarks about this country’s population, and theie
you are wrong in every single statement... .Maoriland :
(1) Never heard of such a person save in a book. (2) Don’t
think so, but can’t give name. The building of steel
vessels commenced in 1879, but quite a number of them
were built that year. (3) No, it won’t resist white ants.
F. : “Englishwoman’s Love Letters” struggle along a
rather old route.. ..Val V. : “Nemesis” hasn't a chance.
The other is a well-known quotation... .Phil Random:
All about a publican’s dog and an inane practical joke
E.W.N. : Write Henry Southern, 140 Strand, London,
W. 0., for price.. .E.P. (Bega): The Bulletin is used to the
type of journal which steals a column or so of its matter
per week, and chides this’paper gently in another column
the while... .The Chiel: Men with bullets in them to be
found everywhere.... West-o’-Darling: Lamentable treat-
ment of that Afghan by white bookies a subject on which
the Caucasian, with any pride of race, should keep a pro-
found silence... .Goolvva : Your Domain nigger hardly
worth notice. There are so many prominent whites en-
gaged telling lies about Australia that a mere Domain
nig may be suffered to lie unrebuked H.E.M. (Melb.):
The new talking site, despite the adjacent morgue and
other disadvantages, is good enough for Tom Mann and
his crowd. In fact, it’s rather suitable.. .. J.G.: That de
feated candidate who fails to score as many votes
on polling day as he has committee men is no ex-
ception. He turns up somewhere at each suc-
ceeding election. He himself is inexplicable, but
the passion for free beer which distinguishes a sec-
tion of the population explains his committee men
“ Z.” : Your yarns are too scarlet for Tiii: Bulletin. Do
you take this journal for a Tory publication like the
Pink ’Un, or what ? Also yours, like most other inde-
cencies, are painfully unfunny... .Towan Gurr : You try
to “ write fine” about what you imagine, instead of
writing simply about what you know." For example,
the night “ settling down like a black pall upon the sur-
rounding virgin forest.” The dingo howl “ like the wail
of a lost soul’’—forgetting that in the New Theology the
lost soul doesn’t wail Bert. H. : Quite useless to us
E.C. : Your outburst re “Kids,” and the way your own
and those of your brother’s arrived, goes too intimately
into family secrets.... Dreadnought : Those points
already taken Lindy Lou: Slip,ail discussion " off.”
Hypatia: Your plaint against W.A. doctors in
general because one of them attributed local infant mor-
tality to improper feeding, is unreasonable. It is a fact
that most infant mortality the world over is due to im-
proper feeding- Mouse: Not good enough yet, but
still not at all “rats” as a p0em....0.0. (Cloncurry):
(1) Yes. (2) Yes. Australia has some restrictions
against the admittance of the Asiatic. But once he
is in, the law treats him as a man and a brother....
J.R. : The Admiral of the Fleet who entertained royalty
for a night, and found himself with 19 servants to feed,
has no cause for complaint; he got off lightly. When
King Ned puts in a quiet Saturday to Monday with a
friend, from 60 to 70 servitors follow him. It is no use
aspiring to this royal entertaining business on such sums
as 30s (or even £2) a week... .S. : The Bulletin is inclined
to approve your scheme of a permanentßalmain Eistedd-
fod, as a means of side-tracking G. Pile, the D.T., the
man in the tram, and such like, off the grievances of
the down-trodden Ma State. But mayn’t the price be
a bithigh even for those blessings? Again, have we any
certainty that these dreary people will retain their pre-
sent comparatively cheerful interest in the Eisteddfod.
At any moment they are liable to turn round and pro-
claim the whole thing an outrage, and a subtle
Federal plot against the freedom of N.5.W.....
P.G. (M.L.) : “ Mammon ” unsuitable... .H.C.B. : Rather-
foolish and uninteresting Moira: Too obviously
founded upon Kipling... S. Mac : Your metre is good,,
but your rhymes are unspeakable. “Wretch” andi
“vouch,” “card” and “heart,” for instance.... Rifle-
man : One is an “ outer,” the other two are dead misses..
R. P.G. : The style is hopelessly out of keeping with,
the subject Harry M. : In the issue of 23/5/’O7, page 10.
....WAV. : It has nothing to recommend it but the title..
...H.O’B. : But a “Song of Triumph” shouldn’t creep,
along in the metre of a dirge. ..R.R.B. : You have good,
verse-mechanics, but not a particle of inspiration
Bobadil: So unequal that it seems to be the work of two-
different hands Berkelly : The bull-ant device is too.
01d... .R.E.S.: Have lived in Maoriland, and never,
noticed the strange accent you describe.. .78: Unsuitable,.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.A.0.C.: Drawings hopeless... .E.H.F.S.: Fairly good
drawing, but motor breakdowns are so very' common....
M.O.N. : Very scratchy sample of art Pedro: Based
on a poor pun, and, anyhow, the Australian small boy
isn’t so ignorant re dogs as all that Pope: A lot of
energy 7 about your drawings, and a good deal of humor,
but not sufficient 5ki11.... Pic : Below par JE. : Picture
throws no new light on the vast vexed question of the
man who comes home tight in evening dress H.I. :
“ Beethoven’s Adieu ” only amounts to a pun at best. . .
E.M. B. : Unsuitable.


iV ' l~' . ‘
'
, 4
l i ’
j, - ,
-
'■■■■ ' ■ '
i
,
. . •
w&rsl
, *“v -•
\
.
U*'
5
'V«
'4
K
’ :
'V
/
1
AJ
-
W---:
lIS
mm
mm
V
«SI« 8
. , '
!. bX:
-
*’> r A "* * * »* ’* V ,• - ! H"»
-'4 pfcSqfe -* iKSfevA^V*'
.
. • „ •
' ■
’ '-• - : ' ' ■
I+AftRV v/(>>'t«»;
*» from the perfume of the * CAMEO ’ Cigarette,
it must be that rascal Gustave.”


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
1 OTOR CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Clip, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
A WONDERFUL CORRECTIVE
Of all Disorders of the Stomach, Liver,
Kidneys, and the Blood.
It is not claimed that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a cure-all, but as a genuine corrective for
all common ailments arising from disorders of the
stomach, liver and kidneys, they hre undoubtedly
the best remedy on the market. An ounce of
prevention is often worth
lbs. of cure, and as many
people are more or less
subject to some- weakness,
when the latter gives warn-
ing of its approach it is
both wise and reasonable
to adopt some means of
preventing symptoms de-
veloping into serious illness.
“ For the last seven
years,” says Mrs. W. Burt,
of Hillgrove, N.S.W., “I
have occasionally taken
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills for indigestion and
constipation, and I would
not be without them, for 1
find they give me imme-
diate relief. I enjoy very
good health, and on any
signs of indisposition I
have recourse to Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. I also give them to the
children when they require them, and I think
that is what keeps them in such good health. 1
can speak highly of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills as a mild corrective, and recommend them
to others.”
f D?
ySfrSE$
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS Ria»
CHILDREN AHal* to*
Wnouc Pill Oissolvco
hi SwwrrjieoWnTtß
Take before reHrini
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Aust-alian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Ikey Moes of the Victorian Club, Melbou rue,
are having another turmoil over the handicap for their
annual billiard tournament. Some years ago they
objected to one of the entrants, on the ground that he
had deceived the handicapper as to his “ form,” but he
braved the storm and ultimately got away with the first
prize under amicable conditions. It seems that he had
not been playing “schlenter” games. He had merely
concealed his want of practice until the weights were out,
after which he recovered his lost “ form ” with all the
enthusiasm of a bookmaker’s racehorse.. This year the
too-wel)-treated amateur was a Mr. Von der Luft, handi-
capped to receive 100 points in the 250 up. The subsequent
discovery that Luft is a good player “ when he gives his
mind to it,” caused great excitement in the betting club.
Melbourne Age treated it as a matter of vast importance,
and threw out the suggestion of Luft’s retirement from
the tournament. Then he was loudly commended for
having consented to scratch his name and make things
pleasant. But Luft didn’t retire. He hung on to his
rights. So, last week, the committee decided to get rid
of Luft by cancelling the billiard tournament, prepara-
tory to taking nominations for another one. If the luck-
less stranger enters himself for this new tournament, he
will presumably be placed at about 500 behind “ scratch.”
Had the first handicap been allowed to hold good, what a
nice gentlemanly time would the “books” have given
Luft 1
* * * *
With the local billiard world agitated by
thoughts of tournaments, and every entrant dreaming of
a sudden reformation in his play and a new knowledge of
the game, Alcock & Co. get crowded houses for the
Inman-Lindrum game at their Melbourne Billiard Hall,
or “Parlor,” as it is sometimes called. The “Parlor”
holds not more than 150 people comfortably, and if the
rush for object-lessons goes on increasing in volume it
will need a lot more accommodation. Amateurs in ordin-
ary, judging from thei'r unaccountable applauding of cer-
tain shots, and their non-applauding of others, get more
entertainment than instruction from a fine display of pro-
fessional billiards. The accuracy of Inman’s losing-hazard
striking, when he made, say, a break of 100 or 150 off the
red ball after “ potting ” the white, was one of those
points of excellence that everybody could appreciate, but
the unobtrusive cleverness of his play for “ position ”
seemed to be accepted as a matter of course—an every-
day affair—like his easy method of making occasional
plain shots under difficult conditions. Both Inman, from
England, and Lindrum, the Australian lad, are solid
rather than delicately artistic in their billiards. The
man, of course, has more solidity than the less experi-
enced boy, but even in watching the youngster,
an amateur student of the game is struck by
the fact that the art of playing for position after
the stroke is not worth much to a third-rate
cueist. Lindrum, in his teens, is always making
individual strokes which the average matured amateur
player would fail to make twice out of three attempts.
This is more noticeable in the free, all-round play of In-
man and Lindrum than in the big “ break ” manipula-
tions of a Roberts and a Stevenson, who keep in closer
touch with the balls. Last week, when Lindrum scored
100 odd, or Inman 200 odd, in one visit to the table, either
of them woukj make during the innings five or six, or
eight or ten, shots which no fairly capable amateur is
certain of making. The odds against his making
all of them in succession would be fully. 100 to
1. A respectable amateur may know how to do
it, but he is unable to make a certainty of it.
Many lovers of the game remain blind to this simple fact
whilst they are watching a pair of professors at work.
They are more impressed by the judgment shown in the
“ strength ” and tactics of the performer than by the
deadly precision of his aim. And if the professor hap-
pens to be slightly inaccurate in a shot which would be
somewhat difficult to them, they say that he “ broke
down at an easy one.” Moreover they attach no particu-
lar importance to his ambidexterity, which enables him
to make easily with his left hand a shot that puts an
amateur to the inconvenient necessity of using the “rest.”
Inman has the billiard face so strongly typed
that one might guess his business from merely looking at
him as a stranger. Bluff and hearty John Roberts is an
exception, but the rule with the faces of these billiardists
is a cold placidity of expression—an acquired calmness —
a meek, hopeful stoicism, and the long collateral lines in
the forehead when the player is sighting the ball. Roberts
has them almost as markedly as Inman. Boy Lindrum
will get them anon. Seemingly this expression of sur-
prise at the job in hand is the result of a natural lifting
of the eyelids, or removal of the shade from the sight.
* * * *
The weights are out for the Y.R.C. Grand
Nationals, and punters are looking for another Realm to
swear by. Among the light-weights in the Hurdle Race
there is nothing that looks likely to prove so absolutely
“ good ”as Realm last year, or York in 1905. But within
the next fortnight one of the lot handicapped under the
10.7 mark may burst forth as a shining light. Meanwhile,
Lion Heart (9.6) has a promising appearance, and Devonier
(11.4) and Prestonpans (10.12) are better liked in Mel-
bourne than Capulet, the Maorilander, whose reputation
is based on private reports. Among the ’chasers the
handsome Napier is worth considering, in spite of his
12’2 burden.
* * * *
In the three days of Adelaide Racing Club’s
Birthday Cup meeting only £29,000 went through the
totalisator. (This is about the level of recent years, but
in 1899 nearly £47,000 was taken.) The promoting club
gets £2200 of this as commission, and the State Govern-
ment about £730 as tax. The last day’s racing showed a
record dividend, in a small race with a field of 15. The
winner paid £ll 18s. for a pound ticket, and the second
horse (on which only £4 ss. was invested) paid £54 9s. !
* * ¥ *
Grafton (N.S.W.) Argus, referring to Killara’s
recent win of a welter handicap in the Clarence River’s
big town, states that, according to the owner, the only
preparation undergone by Killara was bringing in cows,
and that he was ridden from Nymboida (26 miles away)
on the morning of the race, and home again same day.
Our authority adds “ That Killara was totally devoid of
condition was palp .ble to everyone who saw the horse on
the course.” The Bulletin rises to say there couldn’t
have been much lack of condition about a nag that sand-
wiched the winning of a race between two journeys of 26
miles each in one day—s 2 miles in all; also this journal
wouldn’t like, for the sake of the district’s horseracing
reputation, to even hint at what it thinks of the quality
of the opposing cattle, and the condition they were in,
unless Killara is an absolute marvel.
* * * *
The prosperous Sydney butcher, Mr. L. Uhde,
who died last week, once ran The Grand (Wynyard
Square), and sundry other Sydney pubs, and ran them all
profitably. Over 40 years ago he was a prominent turf
patron, but latterly didn’t follow racing so closely,
though he had “an interest in something ” occasionally.
Thirty-eight years back Mr. Uhde’s Warrior, after
running third in the A.J.C. Metrop., and unplaced in
Sydney and Forced Handicaps, was sold to late Mr.
Saqui, and same year (1869) won Essendon Stakes, Mel-
bourne Cup, and followed with Sandhurst Cup. Though
’twas hard luck to have parted with such a nag just then,
the animal had not proved a bad spec, for his prior
owner, who won some good races with him.
The formidable list of A.J.C. whitewashed
pony trainers, jockeys and such, published a week or turn
since, made it appear that ponydom would be completely
absorbed and live only in history ; but apparently this is
not to be. The A.J.C. committee met last w'eek to con-
sider applications for licenses ; result, certificates issued
to, perhaps, eight trainers and a similar number of
riders. If the pony clubs hit back at the would-be
seceders, the ranks of Sydney’s unemployed will be
largely swelled.
* * # *
The absence of Orcus, the yearling brother of
the mighty Poseidon, from the entries for the liberally-
endowed A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate and Gimcrack Stakes has
been commented upon and marvelled at, in view of the
fact that he cost 3050 guineas—a record figure for a
youngster on this continent. Possibly that astute
trainer, Ike Earnshaw, has advised that it is best not to
get the colt ready for spring meetings. Especially does
it appear so, as Orcus has been nominated for A.J.C.
December Stakes.
■*■*•>.*
The A.J.C. committee, which is always being
appealed to by infuriated denizens of N.S.W. to do some-
thing in the way of challenging the supremacy of the
Melbourne Cup as the race of Australia, has not yet
responded to the appeal. But it has tackled the Derby,
and has added £2OOO for the 1908 event, making it the
richest “ classic ” stake in the Commonwealth. For next
year’s race 201 entries have been received, which is
claimed to be an Australian record.
* * * »
Some more pleasing dividends paid by the
totalisator : £54 9s. on Queen’s Cup in the Disposal Stakes
at Adelaide, Saturday week ; £l6 7s. on Metal Queen in
Port Adelaide Cup, Saturday ; £9 10s. on Lantier in the
Handicap Steeple at Port Adelaide, Saturday ; £l5 18s.
on Montgolfier in Croya Handicap, Kalgoorlie, Saturday ;
£26 16s. on Bi-color in the Farewell Handicap, Kalgoorlie.
Saturday. Of course bookmakers lay odds as big as these
sometimes, but the horses that they lay such odds upon
never win in all the creation of cats.
* * * *
Broken Hill Licensed Victuallers’ Races were a
beautiful epitome of the horse-racinggame generally. In
the two miles Hurdles two animals fell, and Snablets
broke his own neck, and so badly injured his jockey
that the boy had to be taken to the hospital. The Ladies’
Bracelet provided some excitement. Zamiel and Dignum
dead-heated, and when the stewards came to look into the
matter they disqualified Dignum, and took measures for
the arrest of the trainer and owner on a charge of ringing
in and attempting to defraud the club. Dignum was
alleged to be the horse Savoy, disqualified some time ago
for malpractice at Orange (N.S.W.).
* * # IT
The constant dropping of ink begins to wear
away the stony hearts of the racing clubs, and the
y.R.C. has taken some steps to reduce the risk of sudden
death to men and horses at forthcoming Grand Nationals.
The top rails of the fences will be replaced with brush,
and the logs and stone walls reduced in height. This
should have an appreciable effect on the butcher’s bill.
Of course, the change was vigorously opposed by the
“old hands,” who argued that it meant the ruin of the
sport. But the world begins to understand the “old
hand,” and to brush him aside with the contempt he
deserves.
* » * *
N.S.W. Bowling Clubs are going to keep the
memory of John Young, the father of the game, green in
the memories of future generations by placing enlarged
portraits of the old gentleman in the club houses. A fine
shield, which will bear his effigy, is to be made and com-
peted for in the opening matches of the season. The
chief topic in bowling circles just now, however, is the
question of “green fees” and their abolition. It has
been the custom and unwritten law of the game for each
member of a visiting team to hand to the caretaker a
humble bob. A number of bowlers desire to see the
practice abolished, but there is a lot to be said for it. It
has been a valuable source of income to the smaller
and less financial clubs, and has done a lot to bring into
being many of the fine greens scattered around Sydney,
The argument against it is that it makes bowling expen-
sive to men of small means, and to writer’s mind this is a
fallacy. The visiting bowler escapes with an expenditure
of a couple of shillings for the afternoon, even after
paying his tram fare. If he plays on his own
green, it is almost certain to cost him nearer ss.
he must help to entertain the visitors by supplying liquid
refreshment to keep them and himself up during the
heat and burden of the game. Altogether, it seems a
very small item to have caused such a large discussion.
The Association selection committee has decided that the
matches between the N.S.W. and Northern Districts
(Newcastle) Associations shall take place at Newcastle on
June 8, and Redfern Green on June 26, and exciting
contests are looked forward to.
* * * *
The Melbourne glove battle, Sam Grey versus
Lyn Truscott, was another demonstration of the fact
that the referee often takes a lot of beating. Lyn Trus-
cott, as a boxer, is not in the same paddock as the
Victorian veteran, who can put up a spar second to none
on this continent; and yet, after the scrap had gone 20
rounds, and Samuel had put it all over Truscott with
both hands, taking in exchange a casual left hand body
punch and one or two pokey straight left leads, the
referee, Sam Gosson, promptly specified that Truscott
was the winner, and then got out ahead of a storm of
hooting that signified the very righteous disapproval felt
by the mass. Oosson, as a rule, manages a fight admir-
ably, his one fault being a weakness to get between when
interference is not called for; but this decision will
damn his reputation for judgment in the estimation of
the pug-loving public for many a cold night.
•***■*
N.S.W. Cricket Association, on Monday night
last, lifted the disqualifications from the rebellious
players. They will now be eligible to hold office
(if any club is foolish enough to elect them) from July.
In the meantime, a new tiger has appeared in the brambly
path of the Board of Control. Saddled with a £lO,OOO
guarantee, the Board has to keep a sharp eye on the
finances. The Sydney Cricket Ground trustees have
demanded 20 per cent, of the gross takings, in addition
to making the Board pay all ground expenses, which
usually run to 10 per cent. As the Marylebone Cricket
Club has to receive 50 per cent, of the proceeds, this
leaves the Board a mighty narrow margin. The im-
pudence of this demand will be fully appreciated when
it is remembered that the Board will not receive
a penny on account of the thousands who will watch the
matches from the members’ stands; while the trustees
are certain to receive the benefit of a large increase in
the number of annual ticket-holders. This means that,
in addition to having half the accommodation for their
own members orticket-holders, the trustees will take 20 per
cent, of the revenue of what space is left to the Board.
(The Melbourne Cricket Club is charging only 15 per
cent, for the use of its ground.) The situation now is that
the Board will have to reconsider the whole question of
bringing out the English team. It will first ask the
various State associations to indemnify it against loss.
As the guarantee will be a personal one, the various asso-
ciations will probably be dubious about giving it. And
if they don’t, there will be no visit of the English Team.
It was this complication, no doubt, that influenced the
N.S.W. Association to lift the disqualifications from the
players, so as to enable the Board to throw the whole
onus of the impending catastrophe upon the extortionate
Trustees of the Sydney Cricket Ground.
* ’* « *
The campaign of the players for separate repre-
sentation on the Board of Control is meeting with scanty
support. An attempt to gain signatures in support of
the application has failed miserably. The Associations of
Queensland, N.S.W., and Victoria, and also the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club, are reported as wholly opposed to
the idea. The name of the players is Mud again, after
having been several times previously Mud.
* ¥ * *
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding
Piles in 6 to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
Died in Melbourne about 2 o’clock Saturday
morning the one-time mighty cricketer, R. W. M‘Leod.
He was one of the committee of the Melbourne Cricket
Club, and represented that concern on the Victorian
Association. He represented the Melbourne Football
Club on the V.F. League, and loomed large in the mining
world. He was a cricketer from his youth upwards, and
in the heyday of his career he knocked up 300 for M.O.C.
against Essendon. He also bowled and batted in the
Australian XI. of 1893, and left his mark on both N.S.W.
and South Australia. Fifteen years ago he was generally
recognised as third man on the roll of cricketing fame,
the two above him being George Gitfen and Harry Trott.
The Board of Control sent a wreath, and also the N.S.W.
Cricket Association, and the flags at Sydney Cricket
Ground were hoisted at half-mast.
* * * *
Mr. W. J. Trickett having refused to recon-
sider his resignation of the position of President of
the N.S.W. Cricket Association, Premier Carruthers
“consented” to take the vacant chair, and was formally
elected last Monday evening.
* * « *
It is to be sincerely hoped that the unfortunate
accident to “ Sunny Jim ” Mackay, who was run over by
a motor car in Jew’burg, Africa, and sustained con-
cussion of the brain, is not the beginning of a Cricket
Trouble Curse.
« * * •
The wet week in Sydney culminated with a
great downpour. All Friday night and far into Saturday
morning the floodgates of Heaven were bust, turning
Sydney Cricket Ground into a bog. Most people took it
for granted that the match would be postponed, but the
Queensland captain, confident in his pack, decided to
play. This was bad judgment on his part, for half of his
team was in a more or less damaged state, some of the
men coming straight from the dressers to the ground.
Against this battered crowd,N.S.W. brought a combina-
tion that was, in many' respects, stronger than even the
first team that met the Queenslanders. And, moreover,
the Queenslanders were strangers in a strange bog, and,
after all, there’s a lot in playing in your own mud. On
the other hand, it was a windless afternoon, and the
winning of the toss gave N.S.W. no advantage. Handi-
capped with five “ hospital players,” Queensland was
beaten from the start, and about the middle of events its
strength gave out entirely. In the first half the
Northern tean kept its end up fairly well, and
drew first blood with a penalty' goal. Before the
whistle went the Cornstalks equalised with a try, which
they failed to convert. Early in the second half the
weaker team was further handicapped by an injury to
the leg of one of the forwards, and though, later on, he
resumed, he was obviously a lame bird, and was finally
retired. With one man short and several others almost
helpless, Queensland tried to break through with drib-
bling sweeps, but the slippery ground broke up their
formation and made the t.iing a gamble. On the other
side, N.S.W. vainly endeavored to let the backs loose,
and they slid wildly in every direction except that of the
Queensland goal. It was a forward game, pure and
simple. Although obviously beaten, Queensland put up
a great defensive fight, and managed to prevent N.S.W.
scoring more than another goal and a try. Thereby it
turned what threatened to be a rout into an ordinary
defeat by 11 to 3.
* * * *
The N.S.W. captain did an insane thing in
placing such a sterling player as Messenger away to glory
on th left wing of the three-quarter line. It would have
been all right had it been a fine day with a hard field
under foot, but when the ground was a quagmire and
there was no passing to speak of it was suicidal. Fortu-
nately, Messenger is far too versatile to be squeezed out
as long as he is included in the team at all, and he
played a great game, quite different from that which he
put- up in the first match. It was an individualistic game,
and Messenger put his ears back and practised private
enterprise with the best of them.
The chief result of the N.S.W.-Queensland
Rugby matches this year has been to reveal the New
England player, W. Dix, as the finest full-back the Ma
State has produced for many years. On Saturday, in
spite of the greasy, sodden state of the ball, his line-
kicking was startlingly accurate. He was full of resource,
and his gathering-in was a triumph, while he repeatedly
risked being drowned by falling on the ball when the
Queensland pack threw itself on him so quickly that there
was no time to kick. And he is only a little scrap of a
man after all.
* * * *
No less than 12 N.S.W. metropolitan and
country Soccer clubs have entered for the Gardiner Oup,
and they will be formed into a league for the purpose of
the contest, which will commence about the beginning of
August. By that time the struggle for the Rawson Oup
should be completed.
* • * •
Owing to the presence of the Queensland team
in Sydney no First Grade Rugby matches were played on
Saturday afternoon, and both the Leaguers (Austral
Rules) and the Soccers decided to spend the day foot-
balling with their mouths. Most of them put in the
time watching the Rugby men mudlarking at Sydney
Cricket Ground ; yet including them there were less than
6000 people to watch the fun.
* * * *
In Melbourne, on Saturday, the expectation of
a great battle brought a crowd that packed the ground
at the Saints and South disturbance, “ Skinner’s hirelings ”
being the only team reckoned capable of “downing” the
victorious seasiders. This they duly accomplished—-by
12 points, and the superior play of four men. Also, their
straight kicking had something to do with it. But there
was little genuine football, and less concerted play;
mostly, it was a rough, scienceless scramble, the big men
bumping around, slinging, charging, and twice coming to
blows. One individual discussion was so persistent that
a constable went, to separate the two, but the umpire
suspended the game and the argument before the Law got
there. Only good umpiring saved the match from de-
generating into a free fight. Free kicks were very plenti-
ful, and verj' little regarded. If teams that play football
are to have a chance against those that go in for rough
scrambles, and wrestles, and fights, and struggles, where
brute force and weight beat skill and system, the um-
pire will have to be given power to order
persistently-offending players off the field, as in
Rugby. Perhaps he may even require authority to
shoot the persistent offender. The match supplied
excitement enough, as in the third quarter, and again in
the fourth, the scores were equal. In fact, up to within
10 minutes of the finish the alleged game looked like
ending in a draw, but the better trained Southerners
then added two more goals to their tally of five goals two
behinds, and went home joyful. Carlton, which is get-
ting back to its last year’s form, walloped Essendon by
104 points to 50. Melbourne beat ’Roy by 55 to 47, after
the best game of the day ; and ’Wood returned from
Geelong winners by six points, the victory being chiefly
due to the Pivot’s awful kicking. The Association
star match —between the two undefeated teams, Williams-
town and West Melbourne—also brought a big “ gate.”
A scrambling, rough-and-tumble game resulted in a 10-
point win for ’Town, which now heads the list. West
and Essendon tie for second place, Ports and ’Scray do
ditto for fourth, and North adorns the rear with a large
oto its name. As North was Premier team three seasons
back, its downfall is notable.
m * * *
The “willingness” of Victorian footballers
and the hastiness of the barrackers will get someone into
serious trouble yet. After the South and Carlton
match on May 25, which South won on its opponents’
ground, a crowd of degraded ruffians hustled the players
when leaving the field, the women, who were, if possible,
worse than the men, sticking hatpins into them, and
kicking them on the shins. One Southerner lost his
temper, and clipped a small boy on the ear, whereupon
the crowd surrounded the pavilion and demanded that
the hasty player be brought out to be slain forthwith.
The police, who, incompetent as they are in Melbourne,
do some good occasionally, got him away by the back ;
but the small boy was a persistent kid, and brought the
case to court, and the justices reckoned £3 a fair thing.
A more strenuous uproar marked the match between
Castlemaine and Wesley Hill, on June 12th, when a W.H.
player, being dissatisfied with the umpire’s decision, pro-
ceeded to smite wisdom into him. The opposing'pla.vers
resented this, and a gorgeous free fight ensued, the game
ending at three-quarter time, with both scores disputed.
They are a hefty lot, these country ’bailers.
* ■* * *
All lacrosse and baseball matches in Sydney
were postponed last Saturday owing to the rain, and the
result is r ither serious to the followers of the Canadian
game. As there are no other dates available for the
missed matches, they will presumably have to be dropped.
Balmain and liurwood clubs were both confident of
winning, and had the latter scored, it would have given
the club a lead of four points in the competition, and a
hard and fast mortgage on the premiership.
* * * *
Unless something went wrong with the time-
table, Maoriland sculler Webb arrived in N.S.W. Tuesday
last, to do battle with Charles Towns for the latter’s
brummy championship of the world. The Maorilander
brought with him the boat built by George Townsin which
he beat Stanbury ; and George Towns has another shell
waiting for him, with which the Maorilander will struggle
to wrest the championship from the Towns family. The
•eagle and the feather on the fatal shaft again.
* * • •
Mr. E. R. S. Larbalastier is founding an Ama-
teur Motor Cycle Club in Sydney, for the benefit of non-
professional riders. Among the events proposed to be
held shortly are a reliability test, and a hill-climbing
contest, in which the prizes will be £5, £3, and £2, for
first, second, and third places respectively. Unless some-
body has been misreported, the new club is to be an
amateur cash, or cash amateur, one.
* * * *
The world’s record for motor-cycles climbs
steadily upward. The latest lift was made by C. B.
Collier, the well-known English motor-cycle man, who
covered the mile in lmin. 4 l-ssec.
■ * * * *
Judging by the harvest the surf has gathered
in of late around Sydney, the race of fools who seek ex-
citement in a gamble with the undertow where there are
practically no life-saving appliances, will shortly be ex-
tinct. Last week a pair of them went in at Tamarama
Bay and promptly got into difficulties. One was rescued
by strangers on whom he had no claim, but who risked
their lives to drag him from where his foolishness had
placed him. The other was not so fortunate, and he is just
as dead as might be expected. There are three scenes in
the last act of the fool-bather’s career : (1) “ Be hanged .
Who’s afraid?” (2) “Whoop, isn’t it lovely?’ (3)
“ Help 1”
* * * *
Balmain (N.S.W.) Municipal Council recently
started a municipal bath for the use of the ratepayer?,
and in a spasm of liberality allowed the local public
school children the benefit of the water free. The kiddies
rushed theioea, and Balmain promises to provide next
generation’s Kierans and Cavills. The council has now
decided that the State Government is the proper
authority to provide water for the Balmain youths to
swim in, and has applied for a State grant. And the
local anti-Socialistic member, who believes in Private
Enterprise, and who urges the community not to be a
tired leaner-up against the State Cow, had better clamor
for that State grant with all the resources of his mouth,
for election time is near.
* * * *
The number of wealthy members who are pre-
pared to build and maintain expensive racing yachts
doesn’t tend to increase. The motor car is turning out
to be a serious rival to the speed yacht. Also the mot< r
boat is distracting attention from the white-winged craft.
Sydney’s two big yacht clubs have, therefore, decided io
niake a bid for the support of small men who can’t hoye
to build and run a Sayonara or an Awanui. They ha\ e
practically'decided to encourage a new class of 10-metie
raters, and will offer a third of the total season’s prue
money to the class, provided five boats are maintained in
commission. A yacht of this size is a toy yacht, arid it
won’t be easy' to explain to your girl on the Manly boat
where the 10-metre “yacht” starts and where the 18ft.
sailing boat leaves off.
* # * *
Sydney motor-boats Invincible and Fairbanks
will meet again on the same course —Garden Island to
Manly' and back—on Saturday week, for the Blue Pennant
of Sydney Harbor. There will be three laces., and, of
course, the winner of the majority will fly the Sign of the
speed championship of N.S.W. ihe beauty' of the Blue
Pennant is that the holder of it can be given a month’s
notice to race by anyone, so the flag has a fair show of
being always found on the fastest boat afloat in Port
Jackson. Invincible has now been repaired and is running
better than ever, and Mr. Relph is very sanguine in his
lair at Mort’s Dock. So are the Davies brothers, who
have implicit faith in their semi-hydroplane.
* * * *
Re the crack Achilles, j ust retired from M.L.
racing. His first appearance was at Riccarton (Christ-
church), as a two-year-old, and thereby hangs a tale.
The owners, having discovered what wonderful pace
the youngster was possessed of, decided to go straight
for a coup on his very first race. They accordingly
shipped him from Wellington to Lyttelton, the day
before the race, which, of course, meant his arriving the
day it w'as run. He was given an easy canter the wrong
way round the course to the starting post in order to
take the stiffness resulting from the journey out of
him. Large sums were telegraphed to Cohen all
over M.L. as late as the backers dared to leave
it. But it so happened that they despatched
their telegrams a little too early, with the result
that a good proportion of the investment came back on
to the Tote, thereby considerably reducing the price, and
sending the unknown prad out second favorite. Circum-
stances considered, Achilles ran a great colt, but he was
just beaten by Helen Faucit, a big filly of Stead’s, which,
though not Wonderfully fast, was turned out in the pink
of condition, and thereby prevailed in the last few yards.
Had the stable been content to ship the colt with other
horses a week or so earlier, he would have won as he liked,
and his starting price would, in all probability, have been
no lower.


KUGELMANN\S
m
v
XF r.
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny-
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Hydro Majestic Mediow Bath, Blue Mountains.
The most Fashion 4
able Winter Resort
in Australia.
Buildings heated
throughout and lit
by Electricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Good Cuisine, and
Healthful Amuse-
rv
merits. Motor Cars and Carriages Every Day to Jenolan Caves and Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
The Wonderful MAJESTIC
PHONOGRAPH & 6 Records
POST 20/- FREE.
ĸ
k
ķ
NEVER before has such a Phono-
graph offer been made at the
price. The “Majestic” is a
wonderful instrument—it plays—
tiflks —laughs—sings and gives
splendid results. Nothing to get
out of order—and is so easy to
work that a child could handle it.
We have over 20,000 Records of
Songs, Band Pieces, Operatic
Selections, &c., &c,, from which
yon can make your selection.
THE MAJESTIC PHONOGRAPH AND SIX STANDARD SIZE RECORDS SENT
EREE ANYWHERE EOR 20/-.
Write for Lists of Records and Catalogs of Instruments.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., oplic lr
393 George Street, EOT^IEL , SYDNEY.
T t
Test
the
Weight
when you are buying
a new bicycle and
when you are making
such test, ask your dealer
to show you a machine built or
Eadie Fittings.
Then compare its weight with that
of others and note the difference.
You will find it pounds lighter, yet
just as strong!
That means enhanced speed, comfort
and enjoyment!
If you are interested write, to day, for
latest Hrt Catalogue. Dept k
Eadie Mf g. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Buildings
Collins St., MELBOURNE
WORKS ; REDDITCH, ENG,
FOR WINTER!
Underwear of Aertex Cellular in
Wool, Merino, or Heavyweight Cotton, is the safest
and most comfortable form of clothing. We recom-
mend, as most economical, the heavyweight Cotton,
but for those who prefer wool next the skin we also
stock the Wool and Merino ; but whichever is used,
the hygienic principle is the same, and the same
beneficial result follows its use.
In Antarctic Latitudes.
Mr. 0. E. Borchgrevink, the celebrated explorer,
who is about to make another attempt to reach the
South Pole, writes “ Your Aertex Cellular Under-
clothing proved most excellent during the time I
spent within the Antarctic Circle. It is remarkable
how well it suits both cold and warm weather.”
CALL AND INSPECT, or write for Samples
and Illustrated Price List.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. :
DAVID BRAHAM & CO,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
your trumpet
throw AWAY
&
You can cure deafness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly 1 Then write for booklet, free, (mem
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO , sag Collins St., Melbourne.
STECK PIANOS.
The Only Imported Piano
Sold Direct by the
Manufacturer to User.
Pianos usually sold in Australia carry from two to four
profits—the manufacturer and retailer, or the manufacturer,
home exporter, indentor, and retailer.
The STUCK PIANO is manufactured by the PIANOLO CO.,
in the largest producing factories in the world, making last
year a'little over 16,000 Pianos. These instruments are shipped
direct from our factory to us, and are sold throughout Australia
with but one profit added to the cost—that of the manufacturer.
The individuality of this Piano, as far as it can be described in words,
consists of a certain richness and mellowness of tone, a sympathetic singing
voice, as distinguished from those pianos characterised chiefly for brilliancy, but
lacking in the deeper and subtler qualities which art demands. Wherever there
are musicians of true culture, professional or amateur, this piano is known for
its enduring qualities, its generous singing tone, its beautiful harmonious soul.
When the Grand Nibelungen Orchestra, at Beyreuth, desired to tender
Richard Wagner a special token of their affection, it was a STECK PIANO
that was selected for the gift. Wagner placed the STECK PIANO in the first
rank, his opinion being shared by his friend Franz Liszt:
“The fine STECK PIANO which I have obtained is
everywhere acknowledged to be excellent. My great
friend, Franz Liszt, expressed the liveliest satisfaction
after he had played upon it.
“ (Sgd.) RICHARD WAGNER.”
Write for Catalogue P.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO., 357 G SiS.
Branches at 185 Collins Street, Melbourne; 311 Queen Street, Brisbane;
38 King William Street, Adelaide.
Makes you look manly
finer
Before
1
The Good WorK
Capillarine Does.
You will be surprised at the good work Capillarine will do.
It is just as good as we say, and will produce a Moustache
in remarkably quick time. Harmless and undetectable.
PRICE 10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD
(Under Sealed Cover).
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 25 years.
&
1c
?Vk£S
355®!
\
£fj
-ss-
LONDON TO MONTE CARLO
Continental Tyres
AGAIN BEAT THE RECORD.
Reports to hand by the last mall show that Mr. Chas. Jarrott has once
more beaten the London to Monte Carlo record by covering the complete
distance of 900 odd miles in 35 hrs. 20 mins. At the conclusion of this
remarkable performance Mr. Jarrott wired :
"Arrived Honte Carlo 7.30 Eng. time. 35 hrs. 20 mins, for complete
journey. Beat my own record London to Monte Carlo of last year, and
all Monte Carlo to London records made since. Continental Red Rubber
Steel Armoured Non-Skid Tyres (Pat. No. 5 356) wore splendidly.”
ALWAYS SPECIFY.
*rif mm


ĸ
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Scarf Pin,,
set Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;.
15ct. Gold, 15s,
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
Patrons residing at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
255.
£3,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 50s, 60s. Solid Gold,
, £3 10s, £4, £5, £6 10s £7 10s.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s fid;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s (id.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hear! or
Round Shape Pendant,
get Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4Jin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c. Gold. 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
!ia
■ B
HHBB
m
i
mm
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
Oct.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 os. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 50s.
a 9
tg&S&
BOS
m
mS
s»*
m I
ism
£3
ogsf
A. SAUNDERS.
Pine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Pull Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, 21s.
!£»
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £3;
3 Diamonds, £5.
KJ
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x 3Jin, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
l'urse, Ss fid, 10s 6d;
Silver Filled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold “Luclc”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, Iss.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, £os, 255.
a a
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Leal Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
Issai
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9et. Gold Mounted, 10s 6d;
smaller 8s 6d. Other Styles,
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving Brush and
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s Od,
JiM
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
20s; 15ct. Gold, £2:
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS. '
Curtins' Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6£in
long, Ss 6d. Other Styles, 5s 6d, 15s 6d.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
Solid
Silver,
£2.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Pull Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
Met. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold. £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BucKle
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS,
9ct. Gold Pin,
Chain and Wishbon
Charm, 5s b'd;
Larger, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bo„ k ar- “*
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815, 817 George-st,
85fiSS£*&.. SYDNEY, N.S.ff.


wm
w
sfiiSEHSMSSs
«
?<«
•feat<o®
Sj
isjg&
x«:
iS-V.
gg&B
2SM
Stfs;
'
1
:
SSprSIS
K^iiSJs
KM
■“
• , '
*& ’
N
" V 11
%
vS '-.Z&aj**
.1 • •»*..* -if3
3f.T<
W
U
.aim
**■"^L
35 «5
on;
K-v'r^
•W"'.-:f>
•Wai c<~®HW
".v :-vy',-5
/**3P
•;• f. :<•
l»w
s§*» 4*l
K3&rm
&r* ; vs§M
'* ’, &' / V
■
sal
Si
"* *
fi
%fW f:.
MHHI
% .
:v.
K%
: :
BBS'S
.. J &'S *s3
\
-ft
%
9
m
:
i
r
BSiSIS
««
I
%
•*>
'
ilgfl
%
%
m
■
- •
• , ! /b'o ia'K
*
•ifcSißFEi
■: ’•'
v-iy*.
: h;
'•V,;
•<*»> .y
■A.
E*
K*
All over Aujtralaj-ia
Make a £ood impreJL/ion.


i'll
1
ill'l
HI
|_(
n<<*
y 2SI
- v
DAVID JONES LTD.
IflV
-Wfi
Fir
1 ,«
«»
n
m\
Irl
f
vi
i \ i
WKfjfiaiSiSnff©
MWJMM
Commences
MONDAY
NEXT,
June the 24th.
Reductions
in all
Departments.
Send a Post Card
for our
Illustrated Sale
Catalogue of
64 Pages, if you
cannot view
the Bargains.
SYDNEY.
if®
'■v '■
Write for Price List
and Catalogues
to the Sole Agents,
LIPP PIANOS.
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pare Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability*
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free.
SYDNEY:
MELBOURNEs
ALLAN & CO. PROP., Ltd. W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 George Street.
276-8 Collins Street.


VICTORIA
isfon S*
ALIA ML
Collins&Swan£
WEST. AUSTRALIA
Hay S* Perm fill
QUEENSLAND (« .V
> Queens Edward St? Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
H 65143 Queen S!. Auckland
1&3 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 5233 HighS*
Princes S DowlingSt? Dunedin^
!
£
0
ff its from
[Stewart Dawsons
iJs good:
Write the
store neerestW
you.
0
UhLj>
o
8
0
\\
o
THE best thing that can be said about a Watch is, “It’s an Honest
Watch.” It tells you the correct time always—you never find it mis-
lead you. If you want just such a Watch we can recommend for your
perusal our 48-page Booklet of Honest Watches, prices for which range
from 14/6 to £7O. We will be pleased to post a copy to any who will
make the request. We mention on this page dependable Watches, any
of which we will send free and safe by post, together with our written
guarantee, on receipt of remittance. ORDER TO-DAY.
The Presentation Watch
S. D. & Co.’s Gentlemen’s Gold Keyless Half Chronometers
are the very best make, highest possible finish throughput. Finest
g-plate movement, Chronometer Balance, adjusted to keep correct
time in all climates. Brequet Spring to counteract shocks caused
by jumping, riding, &c. Jewelled in the finest rubies, perfect key-
less action, Damp and Dust Proof, 18-ct. Gold Heavy Cases, suitable
for merchants, bankers, and professional gentlemen generally. These
Watches are unsurpassed as timekeepers, or in elegance of design,
quality, and excellence of
manufacture. Warranted
for 10 years. Price
Price with Double Hunting
Cases, £27 10s.
n
The “Derby”
Double Chronograph .
Our “Derby” Double Chronograph gives an instantaneous record
in minutes, seconds, and fifths of seconds of any racing event. The
chronograph works act quite apart from and do not interfere with
the time-keeping of the watch in any way. It has perfect start,
stop, and fly-back action. The movement is f-plate and jewelled in
rubies, is fitted with
Breq u e t spring and
with fine compensating
balance, with 18ct. Solid
Gold Case and Crystal
frontpiece.
Price, with hunting
cases, £22. In silver,
£6 10s. Open face, £7
10s., hunting.
A
For the Avorage Man
vve find our special make of Waltham Lever Watch is par-
ticularly suited. The price is comfortably within his reach,
while the Watch is neat and handsome in appearance. The
movement is jewelled, f-plate, with exposed winding
wheels, Brequet spring, and compensation balance. The
winding is keyless, and the cases are of the Hunting style,
made of Hall-Marked Solid
Silver. We guarantee and
sell this Watch for
We supply this Watch
in two Higher Grades, £4
10s. and £G 10s.
/PI
The “Premier”
Watch .
This is the highest quality of Silver Watch made. The
movement is the celebrated English Lever, and is finished
by hand. It has all the improvements which go towards
the making of a high grade watch, and it will be as good
after 20 years’ wear as it was when new. The Hunting
case is a 2£oz. solid, hall-marked Silver one, thus ensuring
durability. Fully jewelled,
brequet hair-spring, com-
pensation balance, ad-
j listed. The price is
Wfr-
A Special Dust
Protected Watch .
and one that has met with general approval, is the “ Excel-
sior.” This is an old favorite of ours, but lately we have
completed important improvements, including the addition
of a full dust cap, which completely covers the works and
excludes all dust and damp. It is a man’s Watch, fully
jewelled, jr-plate movement, Brequet Spring, Compensation
Balance, and has full Hunting Solid Silver Oases. A
splendid country
watch is the Excel-
sior English Lever,
and we post it, to-
gether with our
warranty, for
MAKERS PRICE'S
The Lady’s
Gold Filled.
The ideal Watch for a Lady. Ladylike in size, and in
the exquisitely decorated genuine Gold-filled Case. Key
less, of course, and fitted witli a real good quality Elgin
Lever movement. A watch of beauty, a watch of satisfac-
tion, and guaranteed to outwear two or three cheap all-
gold watches. Price only
Price with 25 years’ guarantee,
14ct. Gold-Filled Cases, £5,
A*
A Three-Quarter
Plate English
Lever Watch
is a favorite with many, the movement being so constructed
that the Watch is thinner than would be the case with a
full-plate Watch. The balance-wheel being situated below
the level of the plate, is specially protected from damage.
We offer a Gentleman’s Keyless Silver Hunting, Jewelled,
Brequet Spring, Com-
pensation Balance,
English Lever Watch,
with guarantee, for
m
The Famous
“ Nonpareil ”
Lady’s Gold Watch .
PA^?r e >. M w g^ne uiJ 8 ' Ct - Gold KEYLESS “NON-
AELIL WATCHES are truly a specialty amongst
specialties, much recommended to ladies who desire a
unique, compact, and elegant inexpensive gold watch The
entire Watch is most exquisitely finished, fine full jewelled
movement, 18-ct. Gold Strong Cases, perfect keyless action,
convenient and reliable.
Hunting Cases.
Price, with open
face, £6 10s.
k
The Steel Lever.
l e r ? an recommend this watch for Country wear, the
oteel Cases being so strong and fit so closely that dust can-
not penetrate. The movement is al5 Jewelled one, Key-
less, 1 late, with exposed winding wheels. We find them
to be most excellent timekeepers, and they have a large
and ever increasing Sale in all our 8 different Establish-
ments throughout Australasia.
Price only
Price with Crystal
Open Face, 255.
a
For the Woman who
takes note of tiijr \e
and the one whose daily occupation demands that she have
the correct time always by her, we confidently advise the
purchase of one of our Keyless Silver Hunting, Solid Gold
Case jointed, Waltham Levers. They are splendid for
time-keeping, and were made especially to our order by the
Waltham Watch Coy. for sale in our eight Australasian
Stores. The movement
and winding work, etc.,
is on the same system as
the men’s size. We will
post one free with guar-
antee on receipt of
HZi
m.
The Old Reliable
Key wind English Lever.
This is the good old reliable English Hunting Silver
Keywind Capped and Jewelled Lever Watch. We have
sold this make of watch throughout the civilised world
during the past 31 years, and we can truthfully say they
have given general satisfaction. The movement is a gilt
and jewelled one, and is fitted with compensation balance
and a dust excluding cap. The case is a substantial one of
Hall marked silver. The
price,
Price, with three pairs
extra jewels, £4 10s.
Open face, 18ct. gold,
£lO.
©
An Ideal
Lady's Watch
is our 15 Jewel American Waltham Kevless Lever in its
18ct. Gold, Engraved, Hunting Cases. "Manufactured to
suit the Australian climate, it has all the known improve-
ments. The movement is of polished nickel, and is fitted
with best Compensation Balance and Safety Hair Spring.
It is a High-Grade Watch in every way, and will give
unequalled pleasure. Posted,
with full guarantee, for
With 14ct. Gold Hunting
Cases, £lO 10s.; with lOct.
Gold Hunting Cases, £8 10s.
A>
Special Gold
Waltham.
For a gentleman nothing can be more suitable than the
14ct. Gold Keyless Hunting Waltham Lever Watch. It is
handsome in appearance and not at all bulky—is a depend-
able timekeeper. The works are § plate to allow the
balance wheel to be out of danger, below the level of the
top plate. It has 15 Jewels, Compensating Balance and
Brequet Spring.
Price
Price, with Best
Movement and
18et. Cases, £2l;
lOct. Gold Cases,
£lO 10s.
%
Get a Gold
Watch now
Don’t put it off until possession gives you no pleasure; buy
it now, when you would really find satisfaction and delight
in it. We can supply a 14ct. Gold Filled (only you can tell
it is not Solid Gold through and through) Watch with a
guarantee by the Waltham Watch Co. that the case will
wear and look well for five and twenty years. The move-
ment is a fine U-plate Keyless, Jewelled, and Brequet
Spring Waltham.
No man need be
without a Gold
Watch when we
offer this excep-
tional one, with
fu 11 case and move-
ment guarantee,
for
Special Circular
on application.
G>


Headache, Indigestion and
Const]pation.
'AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of the
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
> Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to .and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearanc e of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, .and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, _ storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
iHoNTSEKB^I
Sauce
r -<
rmi Gs*
mm
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserra. Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
Jl&k y° ur Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
w suffering from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
JTI TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug' Co., 88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “Medical Review,” London, 25 years
chief consultant & Locum Tenens to Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostician, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for over 30 years. Cure Guaranteed.
110,000
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed 11 ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
THE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the NEW LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play ot
light and shade.
EYerv yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk iVlercers throughout the Colonies.
Tshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN. IQd.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy ’for Coughs and Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy.
• LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, &c.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND,’ for Coughs and
Colds. Bases Asthma and relieves breathing.
‘ COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
"COAGULINE, KLINX, TENASITINE.
Cements for broken and other articles.
‘ LINUM CATHAETICUM PILLS ’ of
Mountain Flax. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of
Kay’s Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds
A POLICY i'on the COMMONWEALTH
Price fid, from The Bulletin Office.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
Lu
D
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
narticularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd . j and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
Dandruff
Are you troubled with the discomforts of
this unpleasant disease ? Yes it is a disease,
and a very fatal one so far as your hair is
concerned. Dandruff is the forerunner of bald-
ness. If you have dandruff you should take
steps at once to cure it, otherwise it will keep
on increasing until it totally destroys your hair.
What Dandruff Is
When your hair roots become weak either
from a run down condition of health or from
neglect, they begin to decay. When decay
sets in it is accompanied by a microbe growth
which continues to multiply, and as it does, it
absorbs all the natural oil of the hair and
scalp. When the scalp is deprived of its
source of nourishment it grows thin, tight, dry.
Dandruff is simply particles of the dead scalp
which have become dry and peeled off.
How To Cure It
You can go on forever ‘‘pouring'’ things on
your head and yet get no benefit from them.
You must remove the cause. You must
strengthen and rebuild your scalp; make it
strong so that it can withstand and overcome
the dandruff germ. Make it fleshy, pliable,
vigorous. There is only one way of doing
this and that is Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. It
goes right to the Cause of the trouble. It sup-
plies the hair roots with nourishment; it re-
builds the scalp ; it kills the dandruff microbe.
Listen To Reason
No one can grow hair in a night, but every-
body who has’nt chronic baldness (which n
incurable) can grow strong, thick, luxuriant
hair, if they will give the necessary time to the
proper care of their scalps. Nourish your
scalp ; build up the wasted tissues with Barry’3
Tri-coph-erous. This is the way to get results,
and results are what prove more than all the
advertising in the world. Part your hair with
a coarse comb, then sprinkle on the Tri-coph-
erous. Wet your scalp thoroughly but don’t
drench it. After this manipulate or “knead”
your scalp for four or five minutes. Make it
loose and pliable. Use Barry’s Tri-coph-erous
twice a week but keep up the manipulation
every night. Continue this treatment with a
shampoo with Reuter’s Soap for a month or
six weeks. This will prove to you the hair
growing power of Barry’s Tri-coph-erous.
You will be astonished at the wonderful im-
provement.
Special Warning
Commercial jealousy has led many to imi-
tate Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. Dishonest clerks
T*'
try to substitute worthless imitations, because
they make more money on them. Don’t be
fooled by the Clever Salesman and his “Just
as Good ” story which common sense refutes.
Insist upon getting Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. It
is made in New York, U. S. A., and across
the end of every wrapper is this trade mark:
Hi
Trade
Note the name Barclay & Co.
The womlerfully sweet and fragrant
perfume of Reuter’s Soap ts so prized
by some women that they place a cake
of it amongst their clothes, using it the
same as a sachet. At your Chemist’s.
$
[P(lPMppP
(Rcdjp
0
6
v
f.
f
oVELI;
S
BALSAM or AN ISEED
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable
remedy for Coughs, Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis, and all Lung and Throat
Troubles. Read the following proof of its efficacy: —
The Rev, Wm. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle“ For the past twelve years I hare been in
the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your balsam. X should not be exaggerating if I said
I had never known it to fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it iu preference to anything else, and again and
again it has cured me.”
Mr. Lionel Brough, the eminent actor, writes:—“l think it an invaluable medicine for members of my
profession, and have always recommended it to my brother and sister artistes.”
Mr. A. J. Woodhouse, Fern Lodge, Cley-next-the-Sea, Norfolk, writes:—“Last year Powell’s Balsam of
Aniseed cured for me a very obstinate cough of some months’ duration, which I feared would lapse into a
pulmonary affection.”
SOLD BY HLL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE
v Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England. >
SOLE WHOLESALE AGENTS tor NEW SOUTH WALES and QUEENSLAND:—
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY,
and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
- for A
°OxjC^
as
zz
s
©
mi
&


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, and EVERY EVENING, at 8 o’clock,
the Latest London Gaiety Success,
entitled,
THE SPRING CHICKEN,
interpreted by the full strength of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Feank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING, EVERY EVENING,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
Exceptional Australian Achievement,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER;
Or, THE LAND OF THE WATTLE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of CHARLES HOLLOWAY.
THE POPULAR
CHARLES HOLLOWAY DRAMATIC COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
Boucicault’s Admirable Drama, THE COLLEEN BAWN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 22,
the Play of all Plays, TWO LITTLE VAGABONDS.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
JOVVN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction
J, & N. TA1T.
MARIE HALL
THE WORLD’S GREATEST VIOLINISTE.
RECITALS—THURSDAY, 20th JUNE (MATINEE).
SATURDAY, 22nd JUNE.
Box Plan Now Open at Paling’s.
PRICES—6s, 4s, Ss, and 2s.
■pHE LYCEUM HALL, BYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty.”
Every Evening:, at S. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
C L O C U T I O N A R Y RECITAL
■“ By MISS
ENA TURNBULL,
ST. JAMES’ HALL, SYDNEY, THURSDAY, JUNE 27.
Assisting- Artists
Miss Geraldine Rivers, Soprano ; Miss Eyre-Cook, Pianiste •
Mr. W. J. Grieves, Violinist.; Mr. W. Reginald Gooud’
Basso. ;. Signor Lardelli, Accompanist.
ADMISSION BY INVITATION.
Cards May be Obtained at Messrs. Paling and Co.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR OP
” MADAME TERESA
CARRENO,
The Celebrated Pianist.
RETURN SYDNEY SEASON.
TOOWOOMBA, JUNE 21.
ARMIDALE, JUNE 24.
SYDNEY, JUNE 26, 27 (Matinee), and 29.
ADELAIDE, JULY 2, 3 and 4.
Plan at Paling’s. UWF" PRICES—6s, 4s, 3s, 2s.
Direction BENNO SCHEREK.
Tivoli theatre, syd.mey
Sole Proprietor & Manajrer—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
CARLTON. Card Kino- and Quaint Jester.
Reappearance of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Great Success of TECHOW’S CATS.
Splendid Success of FRANK HARTLEY, the Juvenile
Wonder. The Juggling- Schoolboy.
Miss EILEEN LYONS, Master LESLIE HALLINAN,
THE FOUR ROSEBUDS. Miss ANNIE TYE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Mr. ERNEST FITTS.
LES WHARTON. Miss FLORRIE RANGER.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MISS BIJOU RUSSELL, Coon Singer and Sand Dancer.
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIERE, Artistic Sketching Specialty.
FANNY POWERS, Australian Mimic.
GRAHAM & DENT in Musical Comedy, “ The
Lady Sport.”
THE SVENGALIS in the Most Sensational, Inexplicable,
Mystifying Entertainment ever shown.
Plan at Allan’s. S3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING (for a Limited Season),
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S DRAMATIC CO., headed by
MR. CHARLES WALDRON and
MISS OLGA HUMPHRIES
—in—
THE SQUAW MAN.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
Amusements.
|\| EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
IN LONDON TOWN.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. .. J. 0. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 22,
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in a New Musical Comedy, entitled,
THE BLUE MOON.
Box Plan at Allan’s. I® 1 * USUAL PRICES.
SKATING ON REAL ICE, GLACIARIUM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
£& OPEN THREE TIMES DAILY.
DISPLAY of FANCY SKATING and WALTZING,
TUESDAY and THURSDAYS, at 9 p.m.,
SATURDAYS, at 4 p.m. and 9 p.m.
GENERAL ADMISSION, 2s ; Skates, 6d.
School Children, Saturday Morning, 6d ; Skates, 6d.
Monthly and Season Tickets at Special Rates.
POPULAR PRICES. POPULAR PRICES
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY and FRIDAY
EVENINGS the PRICE of ADMISSION WILL BE
ONE SHILLING ; SKATES, SIXPENCE
(Carnival and Special Occasions Excepted).
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
A GRAND POSTER CARNIVAL on the ICE will be
HELD on WEDNESDAY, JUNE 26, at 8 p.m.
VALUABLE PRIZES WILL BE GIVEN.
ON THIS EVENING ONLY THOSE IN POSTER
COSTUME WILL BE ADMITTED ON THE ICE,
admission to which will be by Special Cards.
All those desirous of taking part in the Carnival must
fill in forms (which may be obtained at the office), with
name and description of Poster.
No costume that is objectionable or likely in the
opinion of the management to cause annoyance or ob-
struction to the audience or skaters will be allowed at
the Carnival.
AH nominations must be delivered at the Glaciarium
not later than Monday, 24th June.
The skater or skaters representing the advertiser will
be admitted to the Carnival at a charge of five shillings
each, including skates. Periodical ticket holders will be
admitted without extra charge, but to be allowed on the
ice must appear in poster costume.
Any further information may be obtained at the
Glaciarium. Telephone 4515.
General Price of Admission to the Carnvival, 3s.
Reserved Seats, 2s extra. Skates, 2s.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Missing Friends.
GEORGE HOGG, of Fryerstown, Deceased.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
ANDREW and WILLIAM HOGG, sons
of the above deceased, is requested to communi-
cate with the Sandhurst and Northern District
Trustees Executors and Agency Company Limited,
of View-street, Bendigo.
JAMES P. B. McTUIE,
Manager.
FREDERICK PARK, formerly residing
in Blandford, Dorset, England, is re-
quested to communicate with Mr. Traill, Bland-
ford, England.
--
y
Dinner Jacket Sait 50/-
A grand Suit —ready to put on—
beautifully made of rich black
material—Silk trimmed and hand-
some roll collar
The Full Suit, 50/-
Consisting of Dinner Jacket, Vest
and Trousers. The Vest can be
white pique or black material. . .
Carriage Paid Anywhere.
MURDOCH'S
In Park Street,
Sydney,
“Where the Good Hats are.”
Cot S “Down”
On That Bald Spot?
Yes ! Then you need
“CAPILLA” Hair Tonic.
“Capilla” will cultivate tliHt
“down”—will INFUSE renewed
life and vigor into those tiny
hair bulbs will make them-
grow into long and strong hair.
If your hair is falling out-
head covered with dandruff-
suffering from itchy scalp—or
any other hair trouble —then
you’re on the road that leads
to baldness.
“Capilla” will rid you of these
troubles easily quickly per-
manently.
USE “Capilla” Hair Tonic and
it will put you on the road
that leads to a luxuriant growth
of hair—as sure as night follows
day.
ALL CHEMISTS.
116 & 2/6 Bottle.
W. 0. RICHARDS, Savings Bank
Chambers, Moore St., SYDNEY.
Posted under Cover, 2/- & 3/3 a Bottle.
CHEAP MUSIC
The Latest Music for
ONLY 6d. PER COPY.
Remarkable Value. Read over the List.
The only thing Cheap about this music is the
Price. It is correctly printed on best paper, full
music size, and in every respect equal to what
you are now paying from Two to Four Shillings
for. Send In your order now for as many copies
as you want, and you cannot possibly be disap-
pointed when you receive the Music. The
postage must be added, which is Id. on a
single copy, or id. per copy if more than one
piece is ordered.
FREE!
With all orders for 4 or more
copies we will include a new Book
of Puzzles, called “Problems
with Matches,” and which, or-
dered separately will cost 6d. post free.
in the Va'ley where tne Blue Birds Stnt
Always in the Way
Just Across the Bridge of Gold
When the Ha««est Moon i* Shining
Rose of Killarney
I’ll he with You when the Roses bloom again
She *as bred in Old Kentucky
Asltco .n the Deep
.Davy Jones' Locker
While the Convent Bells were Ringing
Girl I loved m Sunny Tennessee
I'm Trying so Hard to Forget You
Alexander (latest Coon Hit)
Good-bye, Sweet Marie
I’m Wearing My Heart Away for '(W
Down on the Farm
Georgia Camp Meeting Cakewalk
Laughing Water
Would You Care
. Bull anj Bush
Close Your Dreamy Eye*
Fatal Rose of Red
Moving Day
Won't You Wait Nellie Dear
Day by Day (a great favourite*
Clonnc (an excellent song)
If My Wish Came True
Wait at the Gate for Me
I've got My Eyes on You-00-oD
In the Valley of Kentucky
Whistling Rufus
Can't You See I'm Lonely
Man in the Overalls
Man with the Ladder and the Ho*e
Why Don't They Play with Me >
My Rosaiv
Walu Me Round Again, Willie t
Good bye, My Lady Love
Ring Down the Curtain
Smoky Mokes
Anona, Cakewalk
A Bit O'Blarney (Song)
Meet Me in St- Louis, Lout*
Fish jpg
Mobile Prance
May Flower Schottische
Down where the Swan nee Rlvsr Flow*
Banquet in Misery Hall
Fna Y«sr Dnr Heart n Rlu
Egypt (May Brin/'* Cyclonic Hit)
When Yis'rt Drtamiai, Drtsa sf Rt
Fly Away Btr4*e to Bw«a
Flyisg know Ra.«k
I west U h i StlSier
Would You CsrtT (Waltz*
Alice where art thou going
She waits by the deep blue sea
The Man Behind
Pansy Faces
In Friendship’s Name
See me at the G.P.O.
Hear the Piper Calling. J
Hark, Hack to Baltin
When the Harvest Day* a.e Over
In the Valley where the Old Oh* Row*
Song Birds are Slutting of Yoo
I see you've ant the Oid Brown Hat on
Little ChurcKwhere you and I were wed
Bright Eyes, Good-bye
The Glory that i* beat
Pm so tired ot waiting for f»V
la (he Shadow of the Pines ,
Jim a Little Rocking Chair and Vos
For Old Time* Sake
Wartui* at the Churchj
We parted on the Shoie
London. New York 01 Parts
Yocv Mother it youi Friend
We Ouse ;ii Two on Thursday
I Didn't Think Any More
When the Wattle Bloo.na Again
Rosy Qo*y Bungalow
Puc a LitiSe Bit Away fur • Rarny Day
Arrah Wwona
Ncihe D-hn*
RtJelL
(t>nde Up mr mind to tail away
•where in if* wo*ld
Boney«crcJile and the Bee Walts
Also instock Magic Flutes, is 6d. Musi-
cal Canaries, Is 2d. Canary Bird Whistle.
Is 2d. Mock Bagpipes, £s 6d,“Boomerang
Mouth Organs, Is 6d, 2s, 2s 6d and is, &c-
Post free anywhere. Handsome Catalogue of
Musical and other Novelties goes free with every
order.
A. J. SMITH &Co ; Sydney.
Mention this Paper token Ordering-J .
MANY LIVES.
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma
and other
Lung Troubles.
Oxbridge?
V fungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
The bulletin post cards-Now
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
The imported Johnson has turned a deaf
ear to the deputation which has been clamoring
for a system of season tickets on the Sydney
trams. Said Johnson :
There was no service in the world which could be com-
pared with the Sydney tramways, during the busy hours
of the day, for rapidity and frequency. They must bear
in mind the length of the penny section. _ He had no
hesitation in saying they could, not do better in any coun-
try or city in the world.
When the S.M. Herald heard that Johnson had
reached Adelaide on the way out to his job, it
breathed heavily, and declared that now our tram-
way system would soon be put right. And John-
son declares that the system that Oliver, the con-
demned and sacked Australian, built up cannot be
excelled anywhere in the world.
Premier Carruthers, who has had it dinned
into his ears for the past three years that the
crimping of seamen at Newcastle had reached
serious proportions, paid a flying visit to
Coalopolis recently, and returned to Sydney with
the announcement that he had discovered the
existence of crimping. He then addressed the
local Mayor, pointing out that he (the Mayor)
could obtain power under the Local Government
Act to regulate seamen’s boarding-houses, and
ordered him to apply at once for these necessary
powers. The Mayor answered in a weary tone
that he had already applied for this authority, and
that his application had been lying in Carruthers’
own office for the past four months unanswered.
Whereupon Joseph subsided again.
With a wild whirl of a Tam-o’-shanter,
some one sent this to Sydney Telegraph
The Federal compact has been broken. It therefore is
open to N.S.W., and she should act on it at once to make
her own management. Let her withdraw from this
hateful Federal compact and muddle; start on her
own lines, and approach Queensland to form with her
territory a nation which would overshadow all the rest of
the continent of Australia in desirability, prosperity, and
progress. The time is now, let her secede, manage her
own affairs. The man who is able and willing to lead
such a movement can depend on the support of thousands
of others who think as I do.—Yours, etc., ’l5 and ’45.
This appeal might serve as a gentle reminder to
Joe C. as to where his secesh vaporings are lead-
ing some people. Rebellion and treason are ugly
words, and the fate of the leaders of the 1715 and
1745 risings isn’t pleasant reading. Those of them
who didn’t hang saved themselves by flight, even
if they had to leave a fairly profitable solicitor’s
business behind them. And when Canada had a
secesh movement it peacefully hanged the principal
secesher, despite his plea that he was a lunatic
when he seceded.
Passionate outburst from Argentina (Pas-
toralists’ Review, 15/5/’O7) by one who is plainly
a member of Reid’s “Democratic League ” :
And there is one pest they (i.e., the pastoralists) haven’t
got to annoy them here, and that is the British work-
man. Oh ! wouldn’t I just like to import a thousand or
two gauchos, who turn out willingly at daybreak and
keep on till dark without a growl.
A wild mad desire to import gauchos, chows and
kanakas in large masses is the sign manual of the
Reidite democrat. And how he does loathe the
great mass of the British people, despite his flags
and his blessed Empire Day, and his habit of
calling England “Home!” To this wretched
Tory anti-British bounder, about three-fourths of
the male part of the British nation is simply a
“ pest.”
“ J.R.” writes rather confusedly :
A case which turned on the identity of a young female
person, who recently died allegedly from the effects of an
illegal operation, has just been tried in Sydney criminal
court for the second time, the jury having disagreed on
both occasions. The Judge remarked, with some asperity,
on the little care taken by the local hospitals to identify
their patients. It seems, indeed, as if it might not be a
bad way for a person who wanted to quietly get rid of his
identity to get himself admitted as a casualty to one of
the Sydney hospitals, call himself John Jones, or some-
thing equally impersonal, get himself promptly dis-
charged without giving much trouble, and then fade
away. To all appearance all traces of such a person would
be lost, but in case of any trouble he could always prove
by the hospital records that he was Jones. A very
curious case in point occurred in connection with the
N.S.W. Old Age Pension Act some time ago. A pension
had been running for some three years, when it suited
some person with a puli to get it stopped. It was ascer-
tained that someone of the same name as the pensioner
(there are some hundreds of the same name) had been
admitted to one of the hospitals 12 years before. There
was ho proof that he was the pensioner, and there was a
difference of five years in their ages. No one knew what
had become of the hospital patient, and the incident sort
of flapped itself to death, but the pension was stopped on
general principles.
There is war talk again in Japan, directed
against the United States. But it seems likely
that poverty will keep the Brown Man quiet for
the next few years. Even the Jap can’t fight
on an empty Treasury, and he recently failed to
convert his dear-money war loans into stock at
more reasonable interest, while the proposal for a
new loan was received with the deadest silence
that the financial world has heard for a long time.
Now, it is up to Australia to make the best pos-
sible use of the respite before the Ape gets his
second monetary wind.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report : There is
no change to report in the local wool market. A steady
demand exists for all descriptions of the staple, at values
about on a par with those ruling at last month’s auctions.
At the Brisbane sales, held last week, super scoureds did
not meet with the support expected. All other descrip-
tions of greasy and scoured, however, met with a ready
sale at late rates. From information to hand from
Bradford, we gather that spinners and manufacturers
are well employed, with orders on their books that will
take some months to execute, although new business is
rather quiet. Our next sale will take place on Thursday
(20th) when we expect to bring forward a catalogue of
about 1000 bales, consisting chiefly of the new clip from
Queensland.*
The island trader, who gave to the S.M.
Herald particulars of employment in the New
Hebrides in rebuttal of certain House of Commons
statements about the oppression of the natives by
long hours of work, might have effectually hit
back at horrified Britain with the story of its own
oppression of its own workers. Two wrongs
don’t make a right, but when the British
Government affects horror at a blaclrboy working
from daylight till dark, there is a great tempta-
tion to remark that one wrong doesn’t make a
right either, even when it is Bull’s wrong.
Only a few months before the Commons stood
up for the blackboy of the New Hebrides, one
Miss Irwin gave evidence before a committee
of the Lords, and showed that girls were em-
ployed in bakers’ shops in England from 6.45 a.m.
to 8 p.m., and to 11.30 p.m. on Saturdays. The
black boys in the New Hebrides are allowed a
couple of hours’ siesta in the middle of the day,
but the bakers’ white girls are given no time for
rest, and even while eating their meals, they have
to run backward and forward to the shop. And
their case isn’t the worst; from 90 to 96 hours a
week are set down as the English restaurant girl’s
record of labor. Some day John Bull will have
his belltopper and prayer-book taken from him,
and the sentence of civilisation will be that he
shall not be allowed to appear in public with them
any more till he treats his own girls half as well
as he professes to think a distant male nigger
should be treated.
The Bulletin receives a card from Mr.
Frank Lock, a State candidate for Waverley
(N.S.W.). It reads as follows :
Vote for Honest Politics, Progressive naws, Liberty of
Action, Liberty of Conscience, Freedom of Speech, Anti-
Sectarianism, Local Option, No Confiscation, Anti-
Monopoly, Fair Labor Conditions, Land for the People,
A White Australia, Humane Laws, Help for the Little
Ones, Immigration, Sound Finance, The Development of
Our Resources, True Reform, etc., etc., etc.|
N.S.W. has local option and freedom of speech
already. The State Parliament has no voice in
the White Australia matter, so that point is mere
frill. And the rest are platitudes. Everybody
claims that his politics are “honest,” his laws’
“humane” and “progressive,” his finance
“sound,” his reform “true,” and his idea of
labor conditions “fair.” Everybody believes in
“ land for the people,” but doesn’t say how they
are to get it. Everybody believes in “help for
the little ones,” but doesn’t say how they are to
be helped; and “the development of our re-
sources” is as old a platitude as the hills. Mr.
Lock is in the anti-Carruthers interest. That
cause wants a much more definite candidate.
Melbourne Age is deeply shocked about
the great leasehold estates in the Territory. And
people are saying that if the paper could see its
way to be half as much shocked over the great
freehold monopolies in the Western District of
Victoria, that dreadful and chronic story about
the Farmers’ Exodus might not be such a weary
disfigurement to the aforesaid paper.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 192 L.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. 5t0ck,£43.435) .. 65.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,110,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial |||utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruch Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Brandies and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Deni Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
IIRAETQ 011 Australia, New Zea-
® land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GOVERNrtENT SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
fj'HE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances on
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
•for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full information upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Lands Agent.
GRANTS
A. MACINTOSH, 'l
P. E. WILLIAMS,
W. H. O’M, WOOD.J
Commissioners.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : li. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOItItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTBY.
Shipping.
2XT. 3D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Pour Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. 2nd JULY.
PRINZ SIGISMUND 30th JULY.
MANILA 27th AUGUST.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the A (rents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
Ll Ml tki>. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
k
PLYMOUTH & LONDON' via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to sail about 12th JULY.
RUNIC, to sail about 9th AUGUST.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS .. ..I R. B. Y. McKilliam I Noon, June 21
fDAMASCUS . |H. A. Schleman .. Noon, July 19
*MILTIADES .. |A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. Aug. 10
f3rd Class Passengers only. *Twin Screw. Via Suez Canal.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
# HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
mm
CRUISES.».
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for lllus-
t™*ed Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
/
5^
5=
'■piJlS is a splendid Watch tor country use. You
4 couldn’t get a better timekeeper it you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Pace. Can he wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 101$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and “ fat Banquets and
Private Balls xermT able Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE SCENIC ROUTE
TO CONDON IS
via CANADA.
Steamers Sail for Vancouver—
*MANUKA - - Bth JULY
AORANGI - - sth AUG.
*Twin Screw.
PASSENGERS BOOKED TO ANY PART
OE AMERICA OR TO EUROPE.
Round the World Tours
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS,
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing; Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
<s>
#
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
TST-S.'W.
Ujontde pieteO.ii |. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Rabbit skins.
We are CASH BUYERS for Export.
Top Prices Guaranteed. No Commission.
JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
(Established 1889.)
44 Dalgety Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port lor
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
June 26.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Porta North to Claims.
S.S. Wollowra, June 22.
S.S. Innamincka, June 29.
Jiest, >mil Chetipest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows: —
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.H.S. lines F.H.S.
For LONDON and LIVERPOOL
( via Melbourne and Adelaide), calling at Durban to land
passengers.
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer—
DORSET
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 7th JULY, 1907
~ ~ ~ Hobart ~ 11th ~ ~
~ ~ ~ Melbourne ~ 16th ~ „
~ ~ ~ Adelaide „ 20th „ „
Excellent Accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
Passengers.
The Saloon Accommodation consists of all two-berth
deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The Third Class Accommodation comprises 2,4, and
8 berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main deck,
with dining saloon on the upper deck.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
FARES— SALOON. THIRD CLASS.
Durban .. .. £2O £10; £ll ; £l2
Capetown .. .. £22 10s £lO 10s ; £lllls ; £l2 12s
London & Liverpool £45 £l2 12s ; £l3 13s ; £l4 14s
To be followed by other similar twin-
screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island,
on day of sailing only. For full particulars and pamphlets
apply to BIRT & COMPANY LIMITED, 7 Macquarie
Place, Managing Agents.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon jfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
REDUCED INCLUSIVE TERMS
during AUGUST and SEPTEMBER.
' EORGE HOTEL,
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
E. CHAMPION’S
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL,
Swanston-St., Melbourne.
This palatial Hotel is now completed in every up-
to-date detail, and ready for the reception of
Interstate Visitors.
The Most Centrally-Situated Hotel in Melbourne.
Close Proximity to the Railway Stations.
Trams to Every Suburb Pass the Door.
Letters and Telegrams Receive Prompt Attention.
Tariff on application to the Manager— W. CHAMPION.


Suffered for a Long Time Without
Relief—Had Three Doctors and
Derived No Benefit —One Doctor
Was Afraid to Touch Them
Soreness Disappeared and Hands
Now Smooth After Application of
CUTICURA SOAP AND
CUTICURA OINTMENT
“For a long time I suffered with
Bores on the hands which were itching,
painful, and disagreeable. I had three
doctors and derived no benefit from
any of them. One doctor said he was
afraid to touch my hands, so you
must know how bad they were; an-
other said I never could be cured; and
the third said the sores were caused
by the dipping of my hands in water
in the dye-house where I work. I
saw in the papers about the wonderful
cures of the Cuticura Remedies and
procured some of the Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment. In three
days after the application of the
Cuticura Ointment my hands began
to peel and were better. The sore-
ness disappeared, and they are now
smooth and clean, and I am still
working in the dye-house.
“I strongly recommend Cuticura
Soap and Cuticura Ointment to any
one with sore hands, and I hope that
this letter will be the means of help-
ing other sufferers. Mrs. A. E. Maurer,
Chicago, 111., July 1, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Beference: B. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, IST. S.W
MOTHERS! MOTHERS!
To know that a warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and a single anointing
with Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, and
purest and sweetest of emollients, will
afford instant relief and refreshing sleep
to skin-tortured babies, and rest for
tired and worn-out mothers.
Sold throughout the world. Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Besolvent Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60),
may be had of all druggists. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
af Mailed Free, “ How to Cure Eczema.”
Address, B. Towns & Co., Sydney, 1\ T . S. W.
(t
TRADE
FUMIGO
MARK.
This is an exquisite aromatic for burning
in sick rooms, imparting thereto a delight-
ful odor. It is very economical in use, for
a Is. Bottle will last for months.
PRICE, Is. PER BOTTLE.
Double Size, Is. 9ct.
If unobtainable locally send price, together with
the name and address of your chemist, to
BLOGG BROTHERS,
24-38 Spencer-St., MELBOURNE,
who will see that you are supplied.
N.B.—Free sample sent for Id. stamp, any State.
*
M?t
«/.
eh
kp-AL
pi
SYDNEY DEPOT
85
Clarence St
€>9l_E ' AUSTRALIAN • AGENTS-
BARNET GLASSeO
city oc-por. 2,2,6 Fhr\ders L&r\e .
EACT9DY • • • I^^SL P E>-
'ARA-RUBBCR-WoRKS'
poor see? zcir-
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ķ
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES*
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is.; other States,
Is. Bd.
FREE. £?f"Our Booklet, “Shoelight,” that
illustrates and describes our stock of Foot-
wear. Posted anywhere free on request.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
k
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
The Most Comfortable and Best Appointed Hotel
in the Southern Hemisphere,
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
yadi Janos
Foe LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The ‘VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity^
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
A FORTUNES CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known. Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for IJ-? and postage for..
A TEST HOROSCOPE OF 5 LARGE PAGES,
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
“REFEREE” says “ The Prince of living Astrologers.”
This offer is made to convince those who are sceptical of, or unacquainted with, the truth and value
of Astrological Science.
Money returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (of London), “Woodville,” Mont Albert, Melbourne.
FILL IN, CUT OUT, and SEND THIS ADVT.
Name.
Address
Date of Birth.
'
TWENTIETH CENTURY
Steam Merry-go-round
Latest Up-to-date Machine.
Tent Revolves. No Stakes or Guy
Lines.
Good Money-Making Concern.
HERSCHELL, SPILLMAN AND CO.,
North Tonowanda, N;Y;, U.B.A.
Australian Representatives:
Wm. ADAMS & CO. LTD., 521-3 Collins-st., MELBOURNE.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues.
Satisfaction in Smoking' !
SMOKERS will find FLAVOR, COOLNESS, and QUALITY in
EDGEWORTH TOBACCO
MT~ GUARANTEED NOT TO BURN THE TONGUE. Ho Connection with any Trust or Combine.
EDGEWORTH TOBACCO is manufactured in Richmond,
Virginia, U.S.A., by
LARUvS AND BRO. CO.
tSOLD IN 2oz. and 4oz. TINS.
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 Loftus Street, Sydney, Australasian Agents.
The popular credulity which fills the
pockets of the spiritualistic “meejum” with
good shining coin is beginning to develop other
aspects, not quite so pleasant to the ghostly im-
postor. He now finds it rather difficult to get a
decent house to live in and nail his shingle to.
Landlords discover that it is bad business to let a
dwelling to a raiser of the dead. Quite a multi-
tude of people believe in spirits, and a lot more
half-believe, and an additional number don’t
exactly half-believe, but don’t like to hear
strange knockings in the dead of night. There is
a feeling that the spirits may be real, and that
when they have acquired the habit of dropping in
at a house they may keep on doing it, and even
if they don’t there are plenty more houses, and it
is no use taking a risk. One Sydney house—a
well-appointed place in a decent street —has had
three different tenants during the two months
since the spookist flitted. The first tenant
stayed a week, the second four days, and the
third three days. They simply “didn’t like the
place ” as soon as they heard that ‘ ‘ spirits ” used
to drop in there o’ nights, and so they left. Now
the youngsters thereabouts call it “the haunted
house,” and that’s the first step on the downward
road which may lead to it being a faded, shutter-
less, broken-windowed tenement, avoided by every-
body as if it were an evil spirit, and only fit to be
sold for firewood.
“ Stony ” writes :
A pallid, scared, feminine face, shabbily straw-hatted
above, and shabbily bodiued below, peered round the
open swing-door of the bar, and withdrew. Later, I went
out, on my way to the street, and in the vestibule found
the owner of the face and hat, with a frightened expres-
sion, supporting at intervals the head of an utterly
paralytic victim of beer. Seven men, all eminently
stupid, were attempting to drag the drunk to his feet.
The Public always does try to stand a drunk on
his feet. When the drunk once arrives at an
upright position he immediately falls down again,
and cuts his nose and bleeds like a pig, and a large
crowd collects, and he is taken in charge for being screwed
and disorderly. This bunch of men was trying to stand
the drunk up. Then I came on the scene, calm and
collected, and asked her of the heavy eye if she W'anted
to get her husband home. Which seems a silly enough
question when one comes to think of it. However, at
that stage a blunderer dashed out from the bar and said,
bluntly and excitedly, “ What ? What’s this ? What’s
the matter ? What —is he drunk 1” The faded Mrs. re-
plied, indignantly, “ No, Vs not. ’E’s sick ! ” and then
answered me,“ Yes.” “Well, you want a cab?” I
demanded. “0, they’ve just sent fer one,” she said. The
drunk had reclined in the vestibule about half-an-hour by
this time, and they had just sent fora cab. A lean-faced
person at that moment put his chin over the crow'd and
said : “ ’Ere ’e is, missus—an’ it’ll cost yer two bob.”
She of the hopeless hair murmured, defiantly, “ Well,
it’s no good ; I’ve on’y got one-an’-nine,” and we of the
public had to take up a collection to find the remaining
threepence. Then we had the work of dumping the em-
beered one in among the straw at the bottom of the cab.
What I want to know is : Why isn’t a seeing-home fund
provided by publicans for the comfortable disposal of
their disabled patrons, instead of leaving them to the
public ? The thing should be done on the Monte Carlo
principle, by which the stony-broke punter is allowed
money to take him out of town. The publican is anti-
Sosh in theory ; but when it comes to State or public
care of his principal product, the beer-cadaver, he lets the
State and the public carry the corpse readily enough.
“D.” : He came out of Exhibition-street,
Melbourne, and yelled after the green tram head-
ing down Collins-street. The conductor did not
hear, or did not want to hear, and the man started
in pursuit at quite a great pace for a short-legged,
rather meaty person overgrown with country
whiskers. He was certainly from the country-
one of the simple bush characters to whom bad
men present wads of bank-notes left by philan-
thropic relations in Fiji. He carried a bundle
loosely wrapped in brown paper, and every time
he tried to brandish it as a signal to the tram-
conductor some article of wearing apparel fell out.
At the top of the hill he nearly reached us, but by
this time "he was almost breathless. I refrained
from enlightening the officer in charge, as I hate
to spoil a good sporting event, and so the tram
started across Russell-street without him. He
came down the incline past George and George’s
at a great bat, still shedding goods out of his
bundle, and in front of the Town Hall, while the
tram was waiting signals, 'he arrived, lurched
into a corner, and sat gasping. The conductor
took his thrum and nipped a ticket. “Pu-pu-put
me down at Swanston-street, please,” said the
stranger from Far Out. “Certainly,” said the
conductor, “this is Swanston-street.”
“ Koala ” has had an experience :
One wet night, a fortnight or so back, a motor-car
stopped in front of our door. The motorist, muffled up
in a big loosely-fitting leather coat, after seeing his car
housed, came in, and in a voice of the purest “ culehah,”
started out on what was almost a monologue. He began
on the boy (whom he called “ Harray ”) accompanying
him. “Ai say, Harray, what rippin’ luck ! My cigarettes
are still dwy. Ai thought they would be sodden. May
we have tea? Thanks, thanks awfully. How far are we
from tone? Only 30 miles, eh ? Ai would have gone on
only Ai was afwaid my cahbide would give ote, and Ai
mate be run in if Ai had no late when Ai got to tone. It
is absolutely impehative that Ai weach tone by nine in the
mohning, so Ai shall need to be up at six. Ai am afwade
Ai shall sleep in. Eh, you’ll call me 1 You will, for
suah ? Thanks, awfullay. Ai am a bit fagged, and
the boy is knocked out. If Ai get an early staht, and
there are no twavellers, Ai shall go lake—lake— blazes.
Ha, heah’s the tea. So good of you.” Then to me:
“ Keep on smoking, my deah f’lah. Ai am a seasoned
vessel.” After his meal, and when the second cigarette
was under way, he went on : “Ai have been touring for
pleashah, and about 10 miles back, some bally thing or
othah went wrong. Bay good luck we got going again,
and then had a beastly punctchah—took us two solid
hahs to repair it. Othahwise Ai would have been home
befoah this. Heigh ho ! what d’ye chink of ouahEedewal
legislatahs? Wotton lot, ain’t they, the whole box and dice
of’em? And then think of that man Bent going home
as Pw'emiah of Victorya ! What will they think of us in
England? Well A’me for bed. Youah suah you’ll call
me? Thanks so much; good nate. Come, Harray.”
Called him at six, by rapping on his wall. He broke off
a very high-class snore, and yapped out, “ What the
devil’s the matter? Eh, what, 6 o’clock alweady? Ai
have been dweaming. Thanks, thanks, awfly. Harray !
Harray 1” “Or-ri.” A few seconds later—“Harray!
what is the use of youah saying ‘All rate’ and not
moving? You must turn ote.” Half an hour later, after
making a din with the “cah” like the upsetting of a
well-stocked travelling tinker’s waggon, they got away,
and it is to be hoped reached home safely.
Thus a Pig Islander :
Ic is not probable that the “ tip ” curse will ever leave
us. Like the politician's promises of roads and bridges,
its immediate advantages are too many and too far-reach-
ing. I was one of a number of unfortunate Exhibition
patrons who rushed a departing boat at Lyttelton on the
bare prospect of a shake-down. The chief steward said
“No ! ” with decision. Even the masthead was occupied.
I lied glibly to the effect that the company’s office had
assured me of a shake-down, at least. “ The company’s
office would tell you anything,” he said. “ We’ve turned
hundreds of ’em away. Why, some of ’em have even
offered us money," he remarked fiercely, as he eyed the
crowd of importunate persons who blocked the gangway.
“ Yes, money ! ” he hissed significantly, turning to me. ' I
retired, abashed, but fully determined not to leave the
steamer. “ What’s your berth, sir? See to your luggage,
sir ? ” and a steward clutched my belongings. “ Ain’t got
none,” I replied ungrammatically and with bitterness.
My hand wandered unconsciously to my hip pocket.
“ That’s all right, sir, I’ll fix you up. Ah, thank you,
sir.” The other victims, who knew not the value of a
coin on an emergency, imagined I had some influence
with the company or something. The gratuities go into a
common pool, which is subsequently divided amongst the
crowd. The tippers are certainly marked out for especial
attention, and the knowledge that they have tipped
spreads with incredible rapidity.


Vo inlander's
Binoculars.
k
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER'S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney,
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
The Bulletin
ok>
t POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21U George Street , Sydney.
Si Briiisb=fl«stralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
DcVp fLA POST FREE, £1 per year,
r 1 I L/C UUt in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
inyited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austealasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
DeughtfulPipes
Thais what
*1
* D£ H/\nK CUARAMTttb^
means
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable from all Tobacconis/s
2EMER
JfUNS
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
- W. W. CREENER'S
TREBLE-WECQE-FAST
The Strongest Cun In the
World and the best She otlng.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
Greener, Birmingham.”
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed! Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
ralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman.; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
A CURE FOR DRUNKENNESS
FREE
FOR
WRITING.
We are GIVING AWAY FREE
SAMPLES of the World-renowned
EUCRASY.
A Boon to I Vivos, Mothers,
and Sisters .
CURE FOR SONS, BROTHERS, HUSBANDS
EUCRASY DRINK CURE.
»
Mrs. J. HATTON,
who cured her husband with
Eucrasy, writes us that she
has cured also a near and
dear relative, and makes a
most earnest appeal to all
other women to save the
drunkard.
\M.
«e
Mrs. Soott writes
“Oh, how happy
I am that my hus-
band has lost all his
appetite for whisky.
“Your remedy is
surely a blessing for
drunkards.”
DRUNKENNESS
or the
LIQUOR HABIT
Positively Cured
WITH EUCRASY.
It may be given in
Tea, Coffee, or Food,
thus secretly curing
the patient without
his knowledge.
Highest Endorsement from W. P. Stanton, Esq., J.P., S. of T., and 1.0.G.T.
W. F. STANTON and CO., Watchmakers and Jewellers,
22 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
E. H. NORTON, Esq., Eucrasy Company, Sydney. ,
Dear Sir,—As a lifelong Abstainer, a Son of Temperance, and Good Templar, I, for years past, recognised
Drunkenness as a disease, not a crime. When you, in 1896, "introduced your Eucrasy Treatment, I became
keenly interested, and recommended it so that 1 could m ore closely watch its results. My experience with what
I may term my patients has been such that I can, without any hesitation, testify to its curative effects, and,
without any soliciting on your part, I give this testimonial, believing sincerely that by so doing I am carrying
out my temperance pledges, “ To do all in my power to advance the Cause.”
I wish you success, for every patient cured adds to the influence the Temperance Party require to enact
Prohibitory laws. You are at liberty to use this testimonial as you deem fit.—Yours sincerely,
J W. F. STANTON, J.P.
MISS WELLAND, who cured her father after years
of misery, wretchedness, and almost unbearable
suffering, says: “ I shall be so glad if you publish my
experience, for it will reach many others, and let
them know about the wonderful EUCKASY. I will
do all I can to help any suffering sister who will
write me.”
This Cure for Drunkenness has shed a radiance
into thousands of hitherto desolate firesides. It does
its work so silently and surely that, while the devoted
wife, sister or daughter looks on, the drunkard is re-
claimed without his knowledge.
Mr. JOSEPH KLOSTERMAN, Cobar, N.S.W., says:
It is eight years ago since I sent for EUCRASY,
and after a lapse of eight years I think a person
should be able to pass his opinion. I am pleased to
say that your medicine has done wonders for me.
I ani frequently in the company of smokers and
drinkers, but have no desire myself for either liquor
or tobacco.
If this statement should be of any benefit you
are at liberty to use same for publication, and
remain, Yours thankfully,
(Sgd.) JOSEPH KLOSTERMAN.
k
ķ
ĸ
FREE ! FREE !
If You mention the “ Bulletin.”
Send for Booklet and Sample. Enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
This is a Genuine Offer.
CALL ON OR ADDRESS :
The Eucrasy Co.
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
By Royal Warrant to
m
His Majesty The King)
BOVRIL
The flavour, essence, nutriment and all that’s good in prime
ox-beef is concentrated in Bovril.
A little Bovril added to soups and made dishes renders them
more appetising and nutritious.
LEARN TO HYPNOTIZE!
k
PROF.
Reader, do yon desire to become a Hypnotist? Do yon want to know how to utilize th„ most
powerful and mysterious force of nature? Do you value control over others ? Do you value the
means of securing friendship, love and personal influence ? Do you value the power to conquer
pain and banish sickness, to reform a misguided friend, to gain business success, to win wealth,
position and happiness ? If you do, you must learn to Hypnotize. Why not? No other accom-
plishment is so easily acquired. It can be mastered in a few hours time, without leaving your
home. It costs nothing to find out all about it. The greatest Hynotist of the century has just
issued in book form a large and exhaustive TREATISE, OR INSTRUCTOR IN HYPNOTISM,
covering the whole ground of his Science, and he will send it while the edition lasts, absolutely
FREE TO ALL who apply. The book is profusely illustrated, containing beau Jful and artistic
engravings, and shows as never was done before the principles, features, wonders
and uses of this mysterious Science, all in a popular and pleasing style. It tells
you just what Hypnotism is, and what you may accomplish with it. It shows you
how you may sway the minds of others, perform astounding feats,
and produce amusement by the hour. New and instantaneous
methods. Success absolutely guaranteed. Remember this grand
work costs you nothing. It benefits everybody who reads it. It
places you in touch with the wonder-science of the age. Read
it anyhow. It is absolutely FREE. Apply at once to—
R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ft
n
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
WeayM ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DespaiF.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
n . n n ' n n.inr nil ■ q Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOOD OOtlt ■ IL.I-O. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and allßlooci
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
K 1( * im„,.. nn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
Weak Women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; IS PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE f
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock In the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring* this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 1-. 5
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
22s 6d. Sale "Price•• •• •• *• •• *
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ķ
Oaline
is the face cream for the Aus-
tralian woman who values a
good complexion.
It will remove all the dirt and dust tha
soap and water cannot get at from the pores
of the skin, and will keep it soft, smooth and
ciear through the Australian summer, so
complexion destroying.
Oatine is a pure cream made from healing
oats and contains no dangerous mineral salts
or animal fats, which hot weather can cause
to go bad.
Oatine will not grow hair. Men should
always use it after shaving.
Oatine costs 1/9 a jar at all chemists, or
in larger sizes, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
Don’t
"DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 7 5 % of Cases of Old
or ——
Our FREE BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES are dangerous things foryou to “doctor”
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent, of
cases of deafness of people who write us. 75 per cent,
of cases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
Write us the
History of
Your Case and
We will ad-
vise you Free.
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
young, whether you have
been deaf long or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and WE WILL
tell you whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you DON’T, we can.
We can, because, as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will send you FREE, we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. It tells you the names and addresses of
hundreds of people who formerly were deaf, and who
could only be cured by using Mr. Vernon’s Electricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain, because _ if
we can’t Cure your case we will
say so at once.
That costs you nothing, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-day.
THE L R. VERNON CO.
60-64 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Oserine fits cease lt has cared
~ S’AT S
BifiSSißrfewn to
wholesale agents:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Premred by L W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Prepare y stree t, Belfast Ireland.
kYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
f lightful and wickedly true. *
the:
fcucnfiS
BRINGS BACK
lost


ifiUHKlft
s V
1
■ 1
I) U* l '
nr&i
COLUMBIA
Phonograph
The
Largest
Talking
k
Company,
Gen’l.
Machine Manufacturers, 2 h S5S3g"
In the Southern Hemisphere.
Offices and Showrooms :
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Country Agents Wanted. Big Profits Assured
Write for Terms.
WILL FORTIFY YOUR HEALTH
W
S 3
O
«—b
R
The delicious flavor of “ 0.T.,” gentle at first, increases as it passes
over the tongue, and there is never a gap, never a hint of foreign
substance. Purity is, of course, essential to this smoothness and unity of
flavor. The flavor of “0.T.” is full and generous, evaporates slowly, and
caresses the whole palate.
Try it with Soda, Lemonade, Water, Wines or Spirits.
WHOLESALE AGENTS*
Sydney: Orme, Keigwin & Co. Brisbane: Quinlan, Cray & Co.
Adelaide: Tolley & Co. Premantle: Tolley Ltd.
J-Dixon*=G? - High St prahran.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
>
The Joker’s Surprise
Donkey Camera —Made like
a genuine Brownie. This
surprise camera is one of our
latest and best jokes. Can
be used as often as the
operator chooses free of cost.
Ask one of your friends
would he like his photo
taken, and when he accepts,
r. quest him to put on his
best smile, and look straight
at the camera. Immediately
your victim is interested, re-
lease the lid and watch
result.
Price 1/6.
Post free to any address.
The Joker’s Mouse Match Box.— A very neat
pocket novelty, nicely made of polished nickel, with
rubber ears and tail. Can be carried in the vest
pooket, and makes a very useful novelty. Price 1/2
post free to any part of Australasia.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise
and Joke Novelties.
»
The Touch-Me-Not Sur-
prise Match Box. Can be
carried in the vest pocket,
and never fails to give the
match-cadger a shock. When
your friend asks for a match,
just hand him the box and
immediately he attempts to
open same, he receives a
very sudden shock. Nicely
made of nickel, and finished
in leather. Price post free
anywhere for 1/2.
False Noses. —These noses are made of
canvas cloth, and covered with wax. Beauti-
fully colored, and made in every conceivable
shape. Will fit tight on any nose, and always
causes heaps of amusement whether worn on the
stage or in the drawing-room. Price 6d. post free
anywhere.
ĸ
We also stock False
Moustaches at 2d. each ;
False Eyes at Bd. pair ;
False Novelty Spectacles
at 6d. ; or the whole
make-up, consisting- of
nose, moustache, eyes,
and spectacles, posted
.free to any address in
* Australasia for 1/9.
Write for Price List B.
Wholesale and Retail.
710 GEQRCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY. H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
■ The London Bank of Australia Limited*
2 OLD BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.
Subscribed Capital £1,276,747 10 O
Paid-up 548,015 O O
Uncalled, including Reserve Liability 728,732 10 O
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
DAVID FINLAYSON, Esq., Chairman.
GORDON HUNTLEY CAMPBELL, Esq. DAVID QUIXANO HENRIQUES, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq. ROBERT ROME, Esq.
RIGHT HON, SIR WALTER FOSTER, M.P. GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of the Proprietors, held at Winchester House, Old Broad Street,
(Hall No. 174), at 12 o’clock noon, on Monday, 13 th May, 1907.
! The Directors present their Report, accompanied as usual by audited Accounts, for the year ended 31st
December last.
The Profits as shown by the Annual Statement of Profit and Loss, after deducting Management
Charges and Taxes amount to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £83,553 2 9
To which is added the amount brought forward .. .. .. ~ 1 o'lo6 13 4
£99,659 16 1
After providing for the interest at 4J per cent, on the Transferable Deposit Receipts for the
year 1906, amounting to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 47,098 7 9
There remains a Credit balance to be dealt with of
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows : *
Dividend of 51 per cent, on the Preference Shares for the year ended 31st
December,” 1906 .. .. .. .. .. .. £9,456 3 0
Dividend of 2J per cent, on the Ordinary Shares for the same period.. .. 9,197 7 6
Amount to Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. 10,000 0 0
£52,561 8 4
28,653 10 6
To Balance carried forward to next account.. .. .. .. .. £23,907 17 10
During the year Branches have been opened at Alvie and Beaufort in Victoria, and at Macksville, Nabiae and
Smithtown in New South Wales. The Branch at Townsville, Queensland, has been closed.
It is with much regret the Directors have to announce the death of their late colleagues, Sir James F. Garrick,
K.C.M.G., K.C., and Mr. George Miller.
Under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association the vacancies thus caused on the Board have been
filled by the appointment of Mr. George Slade and Mr. Gordon Hdntly Campbell.
The Director retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association is Mr. David Finlayson, who,
being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., also retire, and again offer themselves for re-election.
Following the Meeting of Shareholders, a Meeting- of Depositors will be held at 12.45 p.m., at which Mr. Andrew
Cunningham and Mr. Gordon Huntly Campbell, the retiring Depositors’ Directors, will offer themselves for
re-election.
Warrants for Dividends, less Incrme Tax, will be issued payable on and after the 16th May, to those Share-
holders whose names appeared on the Register on the 29th ultimo.
F. J. CURTIS, Secretary.
2 Old Broad Street, London, 2nd May, 1907.
Balance Sheet, 31st December, 1900
LIABILITIES.
Capital :
49,103 Ordinary Shares of
£22 10s. each .. ..£1,104,817 10 0
Less :
Uncalled
and Re-
serve Lia-
bility . .£736,545 0 0
Calls in
arrear.. 377 10 0
• 736,922 10 0
Add:— 367,895 0 0
Amount prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect of Un-
called Capital and Re-
serve Liability .. .. 8,190 0 0
£376,085 0 0
17,193 5J p.c. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £lO each fully paid .. .. 171,930 0 0
548,015 0 0
Transferable Deposits due 1917 .. .. 942,227 0 9
Other Deposits and Current Accounts .. 3,291,174 11 2
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (in-
cluding' reserves for doubtful debts) .. 754,518 18 5
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. .. 128,990 0 0
Balance of undivided Profit .. .. 52,561 8 4
£5,717,486 18 8
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balanoes, and Notes
of other Banks .. £824,558 19 9
Money at Call and Short Notice in
London 85,000 0 0
Investments, including: those held against
Note Issue, and Bills Receivable .. 666,506 7 4
Bills Discounted, Advances, and other
Assets of the Bank.. .. .. .. 3,757,600 0 1
Bank Premises 383,761 11 6
£5,717,486 18 8
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the Year Ended 31st December, 1906.
To Salaries and General Expenses in Aus-
tralia including' Remuneration to
Local Directors, Rent, Rates, Repairs,
Stationery, Travelling, &c. .. .. £64,207 6 9
„ Salaries and General Expenses in London
—including Directors’ and Auditors’
Fees, Rent, Repairs, Stationery, Tele-
‘grams, &c. .. .. .. .. .. 9,211 710
„ Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue .. 2,657 2 5
~ Interest at 4£ per cent, on Transferable
Deposit Receipts for the year 1906 .. 47,098 7 9
~ Balance of undivided Profit .. .. 52,561 8 4
£175,735 13 1
By Balance as per last Report .. .. £34,755 10 1
Less Dividend for year
ended 31st Dec., 1905 —
On Preference Shares .. 9,456 3 0
On Ordinary Shares .. 9,192 13 9
18,648 16 9
£16,106 13 4
Profits in London and in Australia after
providing' for Interest due and accrued
on current Deposits, deducting rebate
on Bills, and making provision for bad
and doubtful Debts 159,628 19 9
£175,735 13 1
D. FINLAYSON, "V
F. J. CURTIS, Secretary. R. ROME, t Directors.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, J
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 1900, we certify that all our requirements as Auditors
have been complied with, and we have to report, to the Shareholders that, having- examined the above Balance Sheet
with the books at the Head Office, and the returns from the Branches, we are of opinion that the above Balance Sheet
is a full and fair Balance Sheet, properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank’s
affairs as shown by such books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & Co., Auditors.
Medic«t«r, ftizo
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the seiise of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
RODS
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE &c.
_ The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Eclw. NORTON. 64 Hunter Street. SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CAPDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The DmzJcier
Electric Pocket Lamp
&rrr
UGH
Only 3/- carriage paid to any address.
'T'HIS Electric Pocket Lamp is guaranteed in thorough order.
A giving a dazzling bright light. Though so cheap, it ia
of the highest quality. Just press the button and you have
a brilliant illumination. The flashlight thrown suddenly
into a dark corner often reveals very funny things. Better
than a lantern; no danger, no smoke, no smell, no oil, no
matches Always itistantly available. The most wonderful
invention in electrical science. It contains its own battery
and can read carried in the pocket. Battery recharged
when necessary by merely pouring in a little cold water. The
price is only 35., including carriage to any address, the
cheapest ever offered. Every Lamp testefd before issue and
guaranteed in perfect order. The same lamp with Bull's-
Eye Magnifier, giving three times as much light, 55., carriage
paid. Obtainable only from
The Union IMfg. & Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
where.
SEE OUR CATALOGUE
Of <.Novelties, Curious Musical Instru-
ments, Cheap Sheet Music, Violins, Accqr-
diolrs, Mouth Organs, Harp Zithers,Home
Electric Medical Batteries, Electric Light
Pocketj’Lamps and Scarf Pins, Rubber
Type Outfits, Name Brooches, &c„ &c.
Sole Agents Wilson’6 Ear Drums and
Ramey’s Medicator. Write to-day (mention
« Catalo^ue Posted free any-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins St., Melbourne,
“ Ailral” : Part of a political address de-
livered in my town
There’s Denmark and Norway and Sweden and Por-
tugal, all making their living at agriculture alone. Us in
Australia get 17 million a yer from butter, 20 million a
yer from wool, 15 million a yer from mutton, six million
a yer from timber. We have a population of four million
a yer—er-er —a million in four yers, er—er—I mean
four million altogether. That works out at over £4 a yer
for butter per head, £5 a yer for wool, £3 15s. a yer for
mutton, and £1 10s. a yer for timber. In spite of
droughts we have recovered marvellously from our de-
pression, and have paid every penny of our debts.
And I believe the animal was elected.
Westralia’s Newton Moore Ministry, which
has drawn a year’s pay for uselessly wagging its
chin, threatens, in the course of one session, to
pass a land-tax, legalise preferential voting,
abolish the Public Service Commissioner, appoint
a new railway manager, reform the electoral law,
put through an Infant Life Protection Bill,
authorise half-a-dozen railways, and knock the
present licensing law endways, in addition to rub-
bing the House of Fat the wrong way if it gives
any trouble. And that’s only half the programme.
In fact, the policy speech hasn’t been delivered
yet. The things mentioned are mere trifles to go
on (talking) with.


The
UNDERWOOD
** All -in - Sight ’
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26*
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BLlCtt—£lo (SL £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
VIGOROUS STRENGTH
\
J
K
■//Ail
WITHOUT DRUGS!
Every man who is weak and failing knows that there should be
“someihing” that will restore that “old-time vigor” to his body. He has in-
variably tried all kinds of medicine and found them a total failure. He
finds himself worse instead of better. If you have been paying money to
doctors and taking nasty medicines for years, and have derived no benefit
from it all, do you not think it is time to stop ? . . Twenty years
experience with Drugs and Electricity has confirmed us in the know-
ledge that Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will
replace and renew lost energy and vitality, and that our appliance is
the only practical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients tell us that medicines failed
to cure them* and that Electricity as given by
DR. MCLAUGHLIN'S ELECTRIC BELT
did cure them after they had tried everything else and had given up Hope. It is
the grandest invention of the age for weak people. . . . No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever regret
giving it a fair trial, It has special attachments for men and women, and is within the reach of all. The price
is as low as £1 in many cases. We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of home treatment
in Australasia. Our Belt is the standard. . . . It is a quick and certain remedy for all cases of Debility,
WeaKness of all kinds, Nervousness, Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vari-
cocele, Indigestion, Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and Bowel Troubles.
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
-very man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
io help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
iliße BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
the mclaughun co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
'■“ M ' :< ' Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
<5
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book op Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
k
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young 1 and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women 1 both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads op Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book op
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. 8©“ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS A DVT.
Write for my ,
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book or Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all> Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills.—
“ 1 d o not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.’’— Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Inva.lua.ble to ©very Mother of a family*
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Considering that the following letter
arrived nearly 30 years before it was written, it
seems to The Bulletin that some of the asper-
sions cast on the Australian postal department
must be groundless : —
Federal City, May 6, 1937.
Dear Bulletin,— A few of us had an argument last
night, at the Federal City Hotel, and we want you to
settle it. I said that, about 30 years ago, N.S.W. had a
Premier named Karruthers or Crothers —I am not very
sure of the spelling. The others said that there never
was such a Premier, and that the Premiers about the
period mentioned were Parkes, Gibbs, Barton and Crick
(or Click).
Now, I distinctly remember, as a boy, hearing my
father talk about “ old Bill Crothers ” (they used to goto
school together, I believe). Dad said that Bill Crothers
had two great schemes. One was for altering the slant
of the earth, so that the sun would shine only onN.S.W.,
leaving the rest of Australia with merely a sort of twi-
light. But just when this scheme was ready for use,
Kruthers trod on a banana-peel, and slipped off the end
of Circular Quay, and we heard no more of him. I fancy
he was drowned. Bill’s other scheme was to build the
Federal city on wheels ; and every night he intended to
shift it quietly a few yards nearer to Sydney. I remem-
ber Dad reckoning that this was a great scheme ; and I
was disgusted that none of the people here seemed to
have ever heard of it. Yours, etc.,
State F. Bight.
During 1906 there was an increase of 128
factories in N.S. Wales, and 5583 extra hands
found employment in the industries fostered by
the Protection which came with Federation.
“ H.” on the matter of compulsory vot-
ing :—
If a man is so apathetic that he will not trouble to go
to the polling booth, or secure a postal ballot paper,
the less say he has in the government of his country the
better. So far from forcing the apathetic to vote, the
proper course would be to discourage the apathetic vote
altogether. It is the vote of the people who don’t know
and don’t care which is the real danger to the com-
munity.


To the Sick and
Ailing Everywhere
THE CURE FOR YOUR DISEASE
Delivered Free—Free for tho
Asking—Free to You.
ffio the sick— the suffering—to every man and
woman victim of
organic disease —
local trouble or
broken general
health—Dr. Kidd’s
offer of free treat-
ment is given in the
absolute faith and
sincere belief that
they can and will
stop disease, cure
it and lift you up
again to health and
vigor. There is no
reason why you
should not get well
if you will only
bring yourself to
take the free test
treatment of these
wonderful rem-
edies, no matter
what your doubta
may be.
%
I Want the Doubters
I want to give them the proof—the evidence
and the glory of new life in their own bodies—
and I want to pay the cost of this proof- all of
it —to the very last cent —myself.
I have put my life into this work—l hold the
record of thousands of cures—not “ some better”
—but thousands of desperate sufferers, hearty
and strong and big and well; and their letters
are in my hands to prove every word I say.
Rheumatism, kidney troubles, heart disease,
partial paralysis, bladder troubles, stomach and
bowel troubles, piles, catarrh, bronchitis, weak
lungs, asthma, chronic coughs, nervousness, all
female troubles, lumbago, skin diseases, scrofula,
impure blood, general debility, organic vital ail-
ments, etc., are cured to remain and continue
cured.
No matter how you are, no matter what your
disease, I will have the remedies sent to you and
given into your own hands free, paid for by me
and delivered at my own cost.
These Remedies Will Cure
They have cured thousands of cases—nearly
every disease—and they do cure and there is no
reason why they should not cure you— make you
well—and bring you back to health and the joy
of living!
Will you let me do this for you—will you let
me prove it—brother and sister sufferers? Are
you willing to trust a master physician who not
only makes this offer but publishes it and then
sends the test and proof of his remedies without
a penny of cost to anyone except himself ?
Send your name, your Post Office address and
a description of your condition, and I will do my
utmost to satisfy every doubt you have or can
have that these remedies will save your life and
make it all that nature meant to make it.
Let me make you well. Give me your name
and tell me how you feel, and the proof treat-
ment is yours at my cost. No bills of any kind—
no papers—nothing but my absolute good-will
and good faith.
DR. JAMES W. KIDD,
Bpx 506, FORT WAYISTJ, IND.
NOTE.—Dr. Kidd’s methods and his offer
are exactly as represented in every respect.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
Pills
ķ
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY, FEYERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS DROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
Homoeopathy
HOMOEOPATHY HI
MFANS HEALT Hjmmn
HE
£
II *
'4tL’
If THOS f ILL-HEALTH!
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY ?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to be able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
and Diver Troubles,
Rheumatism, (Sb Allied
Complaints, Prostatic
The
Secret
0f...
Health
Affedions, Etc., are completely and permanently cured lay
Patients living 1 at a distance, who wish
to give the HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT
a trial, should send a complete descrip-
tion of their complaints in detail,
together with £1 to cover the cost of
one month’s treatment.
THE IRVING
HOMCEOPATHIC
TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London Hospital, stated : —“ Homoeopathy is only in
its infancy, and if the public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment they would not fly to
nauseous medicines taken in large quantities, but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.”
We would like you to know more about our method, so in order that you can make a study of our
system, we will send to your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure “ WORDS OP
WISDOM ” to any man who will write to—
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
ss
It looks better
And lasts longer;
Softens the leather
Preserves the shoesl
It is not so sticky, or dirty, does not run, and
will not smut when moistened. Its increasing use
* world around is due to its great superiority,
and it can be applied more easily and quickly than
any other kind of boot polish. IVlade only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
. „ BOSTON, MASS., U. 8. A. *
Agents for United Kingdom
«Jolin S. Deed & Sons, Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
k
i'A
J
a
AND A
BAD ONE
The Standard Remedy which haa outlived the Centime#
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT:
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aak your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
ON THE HOP I—3oo of “ Hop’s ” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
k
1
<s>
Jy s>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-=* welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
&
o# V ❖
c#' <#
#=
and OINTMENT
?L
Your Fortune FRJLE!
TO introduce my unerring’ ASTROLOGICAL SYSTEM throughout Australia I will, for a limited time, send you FREE, an Astrological Horoscope of your
life, if you will send your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and //- for postage, etc. I want to tell every reader of The Bulletin what the future
has in store for them ; what happiness there is in the coming months and years to brighten their lives ; what sorrows, disappointments and reverses are hidden
in the future, most of which can be avoided if you only knew how to go about it.
One Shilling, Stamps or Postal Hate, and a Horoscope or Reading of your Life, together with my interesting book, will be sent
to you in a plain envelope. When you receive this reading you will discover how absolutely correct, as w'ell as wonderfully helpful it is, and you will be glad to write me
when you wish to know w T hat to do about the future, for success in love, marriage, speculation or business. You Will, lam sure, be pleased to go out of your way to
advise your friends to consult me, and in that way repay me for the cost of the Free Horoscope I send you.
k
ķ
k
EVERYTHING
PERFECTLY
TRUE.
Gouleurn.
I can truthfully say I feel
happier since I have received
my Horoscope, and think every-
one should have one. Every-
thing- you told me is perfectly
true. You have read me to the
letter. Should I need advice in
the future, I shall surely write
you.— Lily Conbek.
MY PREDICTIONS CAME TO PASS.
Trangie.
lam very much pleased with my Horoscope. Many of the things told me have'
already come to pass. The disappointment you predicted for January was true
and in March I was successful in winning a match. What you told me regarding
my friends was true.— E. Andrews.
MY ADVICE
BROUGHT
MONEY.
Brisbane.
I am proud to tell you that I
have profited greatly hy fol-
lowing the advice contained in
my Horoscope. I had about
given up taking a journey, but
when you advised it so strongl}',
I reconsidered and took the
journey, passed my examina-
tions, and am now in a position
to earn from £2O to £25 per
month. I would not take £lO
for the advice you gave me.
I believe every young person
starting in life should by all
means secure a Horoscope from
you. Nothing I ever received
has given me such power to
control conditions and circum-
stances as your Horoscope.
Wishing you every success,
I am, yours truly,
B. H. Randall.
'
J3F“ WRITE ME TO-DA Y, AND LEARN WHA T THE FUTURE HAS IN STORE FOR YOU. To-day may be the turning point in .your future.
Do not therefore delay, but write to me at once and get the valuable information that I alone can give you. Let me prove to you my wonderful powers, and then help
me by recommending my work to your friends. Thousands are this day blessing tine toour they first wrote me.
Address: PROF. HEMRI DE ASTRO, 300 Bourße Street, Melbourne


Carmen
Lohengrin
T annhauser
Die WalKure
Romeo et Juliette.
Possibly you have not been able to hear the Grand Operas which have recently
been performed in the big cities ?
If so, why not invest in some of the genuine...
EDISON
GRAND OPERA
SELECTIONS.
The following are now obtainable, price 3s. Bd. each :
Bl.—“ Hochstes Vertrauen” (“All confidence thou ow’st me”), from “Lohengrin. 5 *
Sung by Heinrich Knote, Tenor.
833. “Eueh Luften 55 (“Ye Breezes”), from “Lohengrin.” Sung by Madame
Rappold, Soprano, with orchestra accompaniment.
B36.—“Lohengrin’s Farewell,” from “Lohengrin.” Sung by Andreas Dippel,
(1 Tenor, with orchestra accompaniment.
89. “O Brother, Gome,” from Tannhauser.” Sung by Anton van Rooy,
Baritone. -
“O Star of Eve,” from “Tannhauser.” Sung by Anton van Rooy,
Baritone.
■Bljb “Toreador’s Song,” from “Carmen.” Sung by Anton van Rooy, Baritone.
-****• “Siegmund’s Love Song,” from “Die Walkure.” Sung by Heinrich Knote,
Tenor.
“Stephano’s Air',” from “Romeo et Juliette.” Sung by Madame Jacoby,
Contralto.
„ , lf y° u fill in this Coupon we will send you a complete list of the Genuine Edison
brand Opera Selections, post free, and also the name of your nearest dealer, who will
he pleased to play you some of these free of charge.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 310 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please send your list of Grand Opera Selections to
M <
■-
Bulletin.
You can always tell the Genuine Edison by Mr. Edison’s signature printed on each.
National Phonograph Co* of Australia, Ltd*, 340 keKt.^sydney.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEER
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized.
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels?
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
HOW TO ENJOY VIGOROUS HEALTH
v?Z e \
$/ ‘ S\
What is health ? To this the answer is : A perfect structure of all the organs of
digestion and elimination, with a perfect performance of all their functions. Health
and happ.ness are possessions we all desire to obtain and retain. You cannot be
healthy with a sluggish liver or inactive kidneys; sometimes these organs get thrown
out of action on account of improper food or drink, sometimes from a faulty
metabolism. Nature then requires assistance, and it is of paramount importance
that the right aid should be employed in dealing with these delicate pieces of
mechanism. It has been known from time immemorial that certain European spas
which have acquired world-renowned fame on account of their possessing remedial
and health-giving properties, form a natural stimulant for the liver and act as a
cleansing agent for the kidneys. The health-giving and remedial properties of these
famous spas are now incorporated in Kutnow’s Powder, which is universally
acknowledged by the most eminent physicians to be a most perfect remedy for all
liver, kidney, stomach and bowel disorders.
TAKE KUTNOW’S POWDER
The INFALLIBLE REMEDY.
The principal organs concerned in effecting the separation of deleterious substances from the blood are the
liver, kidneys and bowels. So long as these organs work efficiently so long may the owner count on health and
strength. But we know that a large percentage of mankind find it very difficult to keep the digestive and excretory
organs in perfect working order. Stripped of these health-producing faculties, they are left miserable, anxious mortals,
simply worrying through a bald and barren existence. All fear of dyspepsia, liver disease, kidney trouble, and intestinal blood-
poisoning can be avoided by simply adopting the remedy which Prof. Lawson Tait, M.D., so highly recommended—“ KUTNOW’S POWDER.”
HEALTH
■ # \%
-S>
KUTNOWS
powder"
XJS
GENERAL DUNSTERVILLE
WRITES :
•‘TheAvenJ* Upper Norwood, 29th May, 1905.
l)ear Sirs, I began to use Kutnow’s Powder about
a fortnight ago, and, finding it both palatable and effica-
cious, I have procured a bottle of the regulation size, and
mean to have some always by me. I visit Heidelberg
every year and am glad to find that my friend Dr.
txlassner, Hof-Apotheker there, stocks it.
“ Yours faithfully,
DUNSTERVILLE, Lieut.-General.”
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine and Original Kutnow’s Powder
can he had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER,
REV. E. R. GIB3ENS
AV RITES :
“ Wesleyan Methodist Church, Tonbridge,
“ 13th October, 1906.
“Gentlemen, —For some weeks I have been using
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I have derived great
benefit. Bilious trouble has disappeared and rheumatic
pains have been entirely removed. I can very confidently
recommend this preparation.
“ I am, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) E. R. GIBBENS.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


1
<r
f
I
C
ft
GlVtr
THey are tKe Surest Safeguard against Coughs,
Colds, Chest and Lwb§ Affections*
EVERY mother knows the folly of delay where sickness among her, children is
concerned. The invention of PEPS has brought a valuable retiedy within
the reach of every home, and by always having a box handy to guard against the
seriousness of coughs and cclds, to which children are more exposed, parents will save
themselves worry and expense. Children daily run the risk of contracting these com-
mon ailments through getting wet feet or clothing, becoming overheated, and various
other causes, and the neglect or which weakens the chest and lungs and leaves them at
the mercy of Asthma, Bronchitis or Consumption. A golden rule is never to neglect a
cough or cold in children, you never know what it may lead to. Therefore, mothers
should acquaint themselves with the great value of the Pine-air treatment, which is as
unique as it is pleasant, and as sure as it is scientific. It consists in dissolving
an agreeable little Pine extract tablet on the tongue, and breathing into the
throat and lungs the wonderful soothing and healing fumes that are released.
Peps thoroughly disinfect the mouth and nasal organ ; they end all harmful
germ-life, and clear the throat when breathing is heavy or impeded. The fine
bronchial tubes are strengthened and healed by them when made weak by incessant
coughing. Keep Peps always handy. Give the children two or three when going
to school, also when retiring to rest. They will purify the mouth, strengthen the
throat and chest, and prevent Cough, Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, etc.
PEPS
are sold at 1/6 per box by Chemists and
Stores, or lor same price direct from the
Peps Pastille Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FREE
SAMPLE
Send id Stamp to the Peps
Pastille Co., 39 Pitt St., Sydney
for FREE SAMPRE.
FROM
THE*
RICH
1
PINE-S
FORESTS?
//
-1
/A
%
\
-JL
1
%
F\
nK
>
'/a
m
Business, Robbery, etc.
A very large firm of Sydney drapers always
keeps the odd halfpenny. It does an immense business,
and that odd bawbee must amount to a good deal in the
course of the year.
■***•*
“Tito”: My nervous system received a rude
shock a day or two age. Whilst looking over some old in-
voices, I came across one from an English firm, and
amongst other matter printed at the head of it was
“Manufacturer and Exporter." I rubbed my mas-
sive brow for a few moments and thought deeply.
Exporter 1 I had never noticed that word on
any of our warehouses or shops—surely it musD
be a mistake of the German clerk when he made out
the invoice for the printer. Still my craving for know-
ledge was not satisfied, and all night I sat up and
wrestled with the mighty subject. With morning light
it gradually dawned upon me. “Exporters!” They
must be the people who supply our “ Direct importers.”
I had never seen the word b.efore, so my ignorance may
be excused. I only see local invoices, and they all read
“ Direct importers.”
Bendigo, not being able to get much excite-
ment at “The Beehive ” just now (share-dealing is as
dead as Julius Caesar), is tearing itself in halves in a wild
discussion whether pigs are cattle. It all arose out of a
license to sell cattle granted to “Jimmy” Curnow, ex-
postman, and ex-Mayor. Bendigo’s produce markets are
mostly in Hargreaves-street, whither everybody with
weeds in his whiskers and strange smells about his
clothes naturally drifts, and Curnow set up his saleyards
there. He specialised in pig's. Now', these yards are in
the very heart of Bendigo, and, though there was
one pig-selling yard within a few chains, a large
part of Bendigo reckoned that there shouldn’t
be any more ; and Curnow, Who had meantime been
emptied out of the Bendigo City Council—-chiefly on
the pig or no-pig issue—was instructed to sell no more
swine. But his lawyer told him that he was licensed to
sell cattle, and swine W'ere cattle ; therefore he wouldn’t
stop. Then the Council consulted its lawyer, and other
people consulted other lawyers, and among them they
make out that sw'ine, are cattle sometimes, but not
always, but nobody knows for sure when they are and
when they are not, no time-table having been issued on
the subject. So Curnow risks it, and sells on, and the
lawyers have hopes that the controversy will carry them
through the winter.
“ Murray Hicks” : I went to the Sweated In-
dustries show, taken from the Christchurch Exhibition,
and now' being used as an object lesson throughout
Maoriland, and I shuddered. Things that I bad spent
years trying to forget came hammering back, and I feel
them ail over again. This lady’s costume, of elegant
design and neat workmanship, the task of about 30 hours,
made for 13d. ; and here, in Maoriland, we should pay at
least 20s. for the labor. A child’s suit and shirt made for
sd. the lot! Though I came into the world under what
looked like pretty favorable circumstances, by one of
the queer turns of Fortune’s wheel I spent seven years
of my miserable childhood amid scenes of squalor and
starvation —“in poverty, hunger, and dirt,” on the bed-
rock of existence. Maxim Gorky’s recent description of
the poor children of New' York as “human wolves,”
prow'ling in the gutters, turning over the dust bins and
refuse-heaps in search of scraps of anything eatable, irre-
spective of filth, is literally true. I know—l have been a
wolf. Looking at thesesweated garments, I see a recurring
scene of my boyhood in a garret— sans food, sans fire,
sans everything but a little hope. We frequently listened
with expectancy to footfalls on the creaking stair, to be
confronted by "some visitor or other, who generally
enjoined us to put our trust in God, assured us that He
would provide, and left us a tract. One of them, I re-
member, was entitled, “Are you a Sheep or a Goat?” I
used to puzzle over it then, and have often done so since
w'ithout a satisfactory solution of the problem. It would
.be a good thing if a similar exhibit to that which has set
me thinking and writing could be showrn throughout
Australia. It should arrest the attention and enlist the
sympathies of every Australian worker, and make him
think tpo.
• * * *
Part of a Johnstone River (Q.) sugar planter’s
wail, t’other day, was for children of the hoe, or, as he
put it, “ apprentices who would be paid a merely nominal
wage until they were conversant with the industry.”
This awful complexity of a hoe never struck us before.
By the way, if a boy has to serve an apprenticeship before
he can weed sugar cane, what is unskilled labor ?
* * * *
They start early in Melbourne. Some boys
went out last holiday shooting with a pea-rifle. As it
didn’t W'ork well, the elder of two brothers looked down
the barrel, and the usual thing happened. Then—so it
was recorded at the inquest—the victim’s brother, aged
11, after vainly trying to get the other to speak, wailed
“ Geordie, Geordie, are you gone! Who do you leave
your pigeons to?” But Geordie was already past caring
about pigeons.
The latest roving party of Australian miners to
be heard from are manning the Neaqueen Proprietary
Gold Mines, in the foothills of the Andes (S. America),
and they were expecting to hear from a gang of bandits,
40 stron°' as soon as the battery got to work. This
opens up an alluring vista. The big fish which was just
missed by the angler will he as nothing to the size of the
dividend which would have been announced if the bandits
had not looted the battery, or massacred the staff, or re-
moved the mine. It must be a blessed relief for an apolo-
g'ising chairman of directors to. have a g*ang* of bandits to
fall back on. All the other excuses are so frayed.
* * * ,
Bent’s Closer Settlement Board appears to be
making some wonderfully bad bargains. One that it has
now on offer to the public—Tindara—is in blocks that
are costing the settler from £4 2s. fid. to £7 per acre,
unfenced and unimproved. Yet in May a well-improved
farm of 320 acres, with house and outbuildings, in Tin-
dara district, was sold for £5 10s. an acre, and it is three
miles nearer the station than the Closer Settlement
blocks. Another farm, slightly improved and but a mile
further from the line, brought only £3 per acre. Without
a land tax, the more the Board buys the more it has to
pay • and then it can only let the settler in by passing
the steadily increasing bundle on to him.
\ * # *
a. , r\ , T u i,-*- n,r
JJrom the offices Oldest Inhabitant: Mr,
J. S. Butters resurrects himself in Melbourne Argus re
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo. The co. was floated, he says,
bv Melbourne’s first firm of mining brokers, Baillie and
Blitters. The proposition was brought to B. and B.’s
office bv J. H. Knipe, then of Bendigo, whose heiress
grand-daughter is being fought over and pursued in the
law courts. The early owners of the adjoining claims
were Thorp , Earlv, Chappie, Abbott, and Murdock,
whose ground had produced £90,000 worth of gold in IS
months. From these claim-holders Knipe obtained 200
specimens of milk-white quartz, blazing with nuggets,
“ the finest exhibit ever made in Melbourne.” They were
placed in the showcases in the Collins-street windows
on the day the prospectus was issued, with the
result that, by 3 o’clock in the afternoon, the
office door had to be shut, to prevent any more
applications coming in. Still, applications were put into
the letter box and under the door by scores, and over
£200,000 in cash was received. The hon. sec. was
G. h’. Knowles ; but subsequently Howard Spensley, who
had recently arrived in the State, was appointed legal
manager. This Howard Spensley, who had studied for
the Bar, entered Parliament and became Gay an Duffy s
Solicitor-General; he married Simon Staughton s daughter,
with a pile of money, built the Bourke-street Arcade
therewith, and afterwards went to London and entered
the House of Commons. J. S. Butters himself was a
notable character. He was in the Legislative Assembly,
and left it along with C. E. Jones. But both got
back to the Assembly again. Butters was Maypr of
Melbourne in the Duke of Edinburgh’s year. In 1870 he
and his partner Baillie went to Fiji, and when Thakambau
started a Parliament and Executive Council, Butters
became Speaker and drew up the Standing Orders The
Parliament o Thakambau was abolished when Fiji was
annexed. Baillie was murdered in Fiji-a murder mystery
still. Butters returned permanently to Victoria in 1874
and again entered Parliament, this time in the House of
Rich Landlords. The warrior is now in his 76th year. He
arrived in Melbourne in 1853, and founded the stock-
broking business in 1806. #
„ „ -t-tt, ,i T ii
Quan : When the Judders have fastened
prohibition on Australia, I’m going to set up as a vendor of
American patent medicines. And 111 boom. .ruck by
the enormous increase in the sale of patent medicines in
Massachusetts (a prohibition State), the local Board of
Health had 61 well-known and widely-patronised tonics,
bitters, and other proprietary medicines analysed. All
were found to contain alcohol, the proportion ranging
from 6 to 47J per cent., while the average was over 20 per
cent. Nine of the 61 were described in terms indicating
that they contained no alcohol. Yet analysis of these
revealed that (1), “not a rum drink,” contained 13'2
per cent.; (2), “purely vegetable, recommended for
inebriates,” 41'6 ; (3), “ entirely harmless, 19'5 ; (4), “ not
an alcoholic beverage,” 6 ; (5), “ entirely vegetable and
free from alcoholic stimulant,” 25'6 ; (6), “contains no
alcohol,” 20'5 ; (7), “ contains no spirit,” 6'l ; (8), “a
non-intoxicating stimulant,” whisky without its sting,”
28*2 ; and (9), “ recommended for treatment of alcoholio
habit,” 26 - 5.
The rascalities of the short-weight wood-and-
coal dealer are troubling Melbourne again. Instances
are given of 601 b. being short out of 3cwt., 151 b. in lewt.,
751 b. in 2cwt., and so on. Citizens who complain to the
negligent councils are invited to act as inspectors and
prosecutors themselves. Bent’s Parliament passed a law
strong enough to absolutely stop this species of petty
larceny and then left it to the councils to carry out.
Three central municipalities—where Laborites hold a few
seats—have joined together to pay an inspector ; the
rest wholly ignore the matter. • It becomes evident that
if such laws are to be left to the average councillor to
carry out, he will have to be instructed to do the work
thorou = hly ’ and be fin , ed if he doe # snx
~ Tr r m ci a , ~ • • •
O.K.Y. : The SUNDAY Slimes is giving pic-
tures of the beautitul homes of N.S.W. lor the
most part, they are fearsome monstrosities in bricks
an( i mortar. The typical house of the Calico
Jimmy in Sydney suburbs is apparently a quarter-
acre roof of French tiles, supported by brick railway
arches, under the gloom of which lurk little windows fit
for prison cells, and a doorway large enough for a fair-
sized dog. It is into dungeons of this brand that Jat
retires after the beat and burden of the day, and within
he lies low until next morning. Our true home, for
climatic reasons, should be a dwelling surrounded by
wide verandahs, each room with windows extending
from floor to ceiling*. Queen Anne is dead, and her style
o{ R enne i should be dead, too.
» « * *
, • , n • „ , .
. Rubber-growing enterprises are being boomed
in London and Paris on the strength of some pioneer cos.
figures. On paper the profits are too rich to be taken
without apple sauce. Cost ot planting (with tropical
colored labor, ot course) is set down at about £lO per
acre, and subsequent attention at £2 per acre. In the
seventh year returns start to come in, and run from any-
thing, to begin with, up to £2OO per acre per annum when
the trees are mature. If the figures are within miles of
the truth, there ought to be something in it for Queens-
land, and especially for 1 apua. At Kamerunga, the State
nursery back from Cairns, nothing seems to thrive better
than rulibcr—fine-looking trees, too; most of them would
Pass for Moreton Bay figs. y et l^a. r qq r u.nga,isn t exact y
111 a swamp ; it stands on the first of the foothills that
presently climb up to Kuranda and the Barron Falls.
* * * *
Ipswich (Q.) flannels, under a severe expert
fcesfc l on the Yorkshire market, came out with the certiti-
(.a^e that “ for qualitv they leave nothing l to be desired.”
j attractive preparation, however, but there is the
off . s ‘ et o p n o adulteration with cotton, which can’t be said
of Kn „. lis |h makes. The annual output of this factory has
r j st .„ ce the beginning of Federation from 83,500yd5.
tQ ygg 000yds., and vet the demand has not been over-
taken ; but the price has had to be so cut that the co. has
over £20,000 in six vears. Unless High Protec-
arrjves ; t looks, therefore, as though the industry
lm]gt w ; th er
*' * * *
A co nj er the Period, has just been launched
at Middlesborom’h (Eng.) for Howard Smith and Co.
coal fleet includes several similarly-named boats—
’ Era! and Ttoe. With the
. . f .7’ p " • j ; n v. o ., f t 0 Howard Smith’s
of Period it is aboutjp to Howaia-Matos
op p (Jsite s j,i e of L y, e globe for things that can be produced
j n o ur own continent. The sooner the Australian ship-
owner owns Australian-built vessels, the better it will be
for t h e shipowner and Australia. Many will rejoice when
tbe fine 5000-ton passenger steamer Kookaburra leaves the
gppg .Kangaroo Point, and old King Kirribilli from
K oran( jerrk performs the christening ceremony with a
b tfc , of Australian wine
* * * *
~ ... . ,
Mercator : Now that Australian goods are
getting their name up, shoddy stuffs are seeking sale
under the masquerade of Australian. Was passing a
shop when I was attracted by a pile of blankets, sur-
mounted by an aggressive notice— These fane quality
colonial blankets are being absolutely thrown away,
Being interested in the manufacture of Australian
blankets, a cursory glance told me that the goods were of
the poorest English make, being very largely cotton, and
calculated to make the lowest quality Australian blanket
blush for shame. Until the States extend the JJederal
Commerce Act provisions against such dishonesty there
seems no remedy,
THE MAIDS OF THE LANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Melbourne softgoods firm has made an innovation in
pushing its wares by engaging a couple of lady com-
mercial travellers. It is anticipated that other firms will
follow, and the lady traveller will shortly be a common
'eature of the road.—News item.
The poet, with figments and fancies,
Is fading away ;
For Commerce the greatest romances
Develops to-day.
Where the bustle and push of the trade is
The youthful gods reign,
And have for their Hebes, the ladies
With lines from the Lane.
With trains full of damsels who travel,
Just purely for biz,
The joj r that the bushies now have’ll
Be twice what it is.
They’ll gather on platform and siding
To hail in glad terms
The cars where, in beauty, are riding
The girls from the firms.
Do they understand what the lore is
Attached to the craft?
Do they know all those smoking-room stories
At which we have laughed ?
Will each try to stay up the later,
Love’s fictions to tell,
While cuddling the prettiest waiter
At every hotel ?
The youth who knows not her existence,
When counting his cash,
Will watch her approach from a distance
And hope for a mash.
But e’er his words come, she will start hers
And give him a shock,
By offering lovelier garters
Than he has in stock.
Before he’s come out of his faint, he
Will suddenly know
That something in lingerie dainty
She’s anxious to show.
All thoughts in a whirl will be flying,
Confused in his mind,
Till the trucks come from Melbourne supplying
The orders ;he’s signed.
With books bulging stoutly, they’ll tarry
Not long where they go,
Until they retire and they marry
The head of the co.
No time for coquetry or dalliance,
O’er peak and o’er plain,
They sweep in their fairy battalions—
The maids of the Lane.
N.S.W.
A.B.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKct, Sydney, N.,S\W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE
FOR
ĸ
Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
THE MAINE
Pifle
Shewing Pifle A parr
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CAN’T
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight —~
12/6
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W.; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
HEARNES BRO S TIS
The Famous Remedy For*
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, F*ain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc Hy.
NQf IO Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial -for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
ASK FOR,
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTES.j
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, free oC charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
Vi
SPECIAL VALUE.
BLACK, CREAM, or SBLACK
Tipped with WHITE.
From the Farms of Africa.
Length, 9 inches.
3 FOR Qjm
(Six Shillings) Peft Free.
The Feathers we offer you cannot he bought for twice
the money in any other house.
Send Postal Note or Money' Order payable to John
Milusr. Catalogue Free.
MILLERS FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt S\, SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MEL3OURNE.
|Mention Tun Ruloktin.] [8
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
k
i; CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertisin’', with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds’ worth of
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in' a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, mention
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you 50 of our Better Class picture post cards. Everybody wants
picture post cards, and if you do not want the w'hole of the 50 cards for your own use, you have plenty of
friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of Send
your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed envelope. In u’ritinir state
whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
Se. CO., 5 Angel Place, Pitt-st., Sydney, N.S.W.
ķ
ĸ
0
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
The MISSES ISAACS Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereairh Street
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*® TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Com Bings made im
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone ms'
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
On the Trail of the Trust
m
m 5
Price 1/3
POST FR33.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Will cure
The worst cases
Of Skin
Disease
From a
,; -1 ■
Common Pimple
On the Face
To that awful
Disease
Scrofula.
1
Try a bottle
To-day.
I CURE FITS.
What I think of my remedy for Pits
doesn’t so much matter; what you think
of it is much more important-therefore
I will give you a bottle of it to try before
buying any. It speaks for itself ! I guar-
antee it to be the best and safest remedy
for Fits yet found. I have given away
over 70,000 bottles of it during the past
20 years, and have testimonials of cures
from all over the World If you, or your
people, care for restful nights and health-
ful days you will do well to
TRY IT.
, A simple and safe remedy-approved by
the Medical profession.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45 Museum St., Bloomsbury, London,
England.
Send i/- to pay parcel post to the Colonies-


INDIGESTION,
The torments which are suffered when the digestive organs fail to do their work thoroughly are, ;
unfortunately, so well known to most of us that it is not necessary for the various symptoms ot indi-
gestion or dyspepsia to be given in detail here. ■ ’
Indigestion has several sources of origin, the principal being Gastric Catarrh, in which the food
becomes covered with mucous, and consequently resists the action of the digestive piices , Gastuc
Flatulency, the development of wind or gas; Gastric Diarrhoea, caused by the food,
through the digestive organs unassimilated, and Constipation. Constipation is by far ■the mo§|
frequent and obstinate cause of indigestion, and it must be rectified or digestion cannot be otherwis.
than imperfect. , A
Food must be eaten in sufficient quantity, and must be digested, and be convertMl into l.loodj
Nature makes this one of her most imperative laws of life. During the process of digestionl food 1S
entirely changed in composition by the action of the juices of the internal organ, t g ,
passes. In the mouth it is thoroughly mixed with the saliva. Then it is swallowed, and enjerstbe
stomach, where it is acted upon by the gastric juices, and becomes partly liquefied. *
it passes to the smaller intestine-which is about 18 feet in length—and there certain tg
food are liquefied by the bile and other juices. The food thus made fluid is in a condition to be
absorbed into and becomes a constituent part of the blood. -The indigestible portion of the f
discharged into the larger intestine, whence it is m turn expelled from the body together with other
refuse matter. _ . >
Just as certainly as that it is necessary to life that food must be absorbed, so, likewise, lt-is
essential that the blood must be in a condition to absorb the food, lorpidity of the liver is the c
cause of nearly every case of indigestion, and when the liver is torpid the kidneys are al y.
sympathetically affected to a greater or lesser extent. The blood, which should be transformed,
cleansed and filtered by the kidneys and liver, then contains urinary and biliary poisons, and is there-
fore a feeble absorbent of nutriment. This condition of the blood reacts upon the nervous- system qf
the digestive organs, and prevents the flow and alters the quality of the digestive juices. yJ
The entire nerve energy of a person suffering from indigestion is weakened, owing to the con-
taminated condition of the blood, and the general feeling of mental and physical depression, which is
experienced during an attack of dyspepsia, is due to this cause.
The blood must be continuously purified by the action of the liver and kidneys, Or good digestion
cannot be expected to occur.
Many sufferers from indigestion obtain temporary relief by eating predigested foods or taking
medicines, such as pepsin, which act as digestives in the intestines. A course of such treatment merely
encourages a slothful action of the digestive organs, and causes them to become gradually weaker; atia
less capable of performing their duty, just in the same way that a person who takes jittlepr
becomes incapable of responding to any demand for exertion. Other sufferers irritate the digestive
■organs into temporary and abnormal activity by taking purgative medicines so frequently tnat
presently the stomach and intestines refuse to act except under such irritating stimulation. Xhe w - 7
rational and permanent cure for indigestion is to create such a condition of the blood that eacn
corpuscle becomes hungry for food, and ready and eager to absorb it. The digestive secretions will
then respond to the demands of the blood, and the stomach and intestines will perform their work as
a matter of course. When the blood is laden with uric acid and other urinary and biliary poisons it
■cannot adequately absorb food, and makes but a feeble attempt to do so.
Warner’s Safe Cure J
Is not a purgative medicine. It permanently cures indigestion and dyspepsia, simply because it
restores the liver and kidneys to health and activity, so that the blood naturally; becomes tree trem
urinary and biliary poisons and ravenous to absorb nutriment freely. Nutriment is then conveyed by
the blood to the nerves throughout the body. The nerves of the digestive organs being; properly
nourished, the organs are in a condition to do their work efficiently. Nature is merely aided in mer
efforts to preserve a balance in the manifold and complex processes of waste and renewal by wnic 1
life is maintained.
Remember, constipation or irregularity of the bowels must be overcome. W arner s Safe Rills
should, therefore, also be taken in sufficient quantities to ensure one free movement daily.
Do not overload the stomach. Avoid tea, coffee, alcholic stimulants and rich or fat foods. Do
not eat generously of any solid food.
Write for treatise on Liver and Kidney disorders. Sent post free by H. H. Warner and _Go.,
■Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne. t -*
Flood.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MAN set a narrow bound for me,
With ordered willows, row on row,
And garden-slopes and lawns below ;
And marked me moving to the sea,
My placid wave untroubled, slow ;
Nor guessed beneath my even flow
The fettered spirit—fierce and free.
By glimmering beach and bay I wound
My listless length, a laggard tide,
So still my dreaming wavelets died
In soundless shallows ere they found
The rushes bn the river side.
My naked strength was all untried,
My strength that laughed at bar and bound.
Voice to a thousand things I gave—
The rustle in the water-weeds,
The ripple lisping in the reeds,
The plash of wild things in the wave,
The myriad sounds that silence breeds ;
Man knew not, buried in his needs,
My smiling mirror masked a grave.
Storm darkened on the solemn hills,
The brooding skies were black with rain,
That swept across the cowering plain,
And drowned the flowers and gorged the rills,
And trampled down the ripening grain,
As sudden as the hurricane,
Whose breath is vital while it kills.
It swept me thick as swarming bees,
My dwindling currents drank and drank,
Until I brimmed from bank to bank,
And lapped the willow’s gnarled knees;
And, as I rose, 1 leneath me sank
My bordering rushes, rank on rank ;
My marshes widened into seas.
Full-fed and foaming, swift as flame,
Oame vassal waters from the hills,
And every creek that flows and fills.
And trickling threads without a name,
The melancholy marsh distills
And slowly brims and slowly spills,
To me, its lord, with tribute came.
Then rose I roaring, wave on wave,
Maddened, exulting, ’neath the lash,
And swifter than the lightning flash
1 burst my bonds, no more a slave.
Man built his barriers ; vain and rash !
They fell before me crash on crash ;
I whelmed them in a seething grave.
The dams they deemed so stout and staunch,
I leaped them all and wrenched away
With roars of triumph stone and stay ;
1 snatched the trailing willow branch,
And tossed it in Titanic play,
Till foam-sweat mingled with my spray,
Resistless as the avalanche.
My tawny torrents tossed in glee
Their foaming crests, and laughed to feel
The stately'arches'rock""and" reel,
And roared a thunderous litany
Thro’ blocks of stone and stays of steel,
Deep as a swelling organ peal,
The chant of triumphs of the free.
My fretted, fettered soul had found
That freedom lay beyond the span
Of bridge and bar, and brooked no ban.
I flooded field and fen, and drowned
'The shores as far as eye could scan; ■
Fierce as a ravening wolf I ran,
A watery waste without a bound.
Storm lifted from the hills afar
Her trailing mantle touched with light,
And forth in splendor came the night,
The heavens opened star on star.
The high moon sailed serene and white
Over the valley and the height,
The waves fell hushed upon the bar.
But far and wide, a shoreless sea,
My lawless waves unbridled flowed,
O’er lane and field and winding road ;
And that wild soul the floods set free,
When I rose, maddened, to the goad
. Of roaring rains, and seaward strode,
Shall nevermore be quelled in me.
• MAOKILAND.
MAUD PEACOCKE.
The Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury.
THE LADY OF “OCEAN CAVES.”
[For Tub Bulletin.]
I WAS laid up with rheumatism, and the
long day dragged wearily. I had cast the
illustrated papers aside, and had at last
settled down to seeing pictures in the fire. My
mother, looking out of the window, remarked
that Mr. Holmby had a very wet day for his
funeral, and it occurred to me that Mr. Holmby
might, after all, be quite indifferent to the fact.
It was to have taken place at three p.m., and
the hour hand of the big cuckoo clock was
approaching the figure six. I was glad it had
rained, for the wet would assuredly drive Edward
Forrester in ; and once Forrester had two whiskies
nothing on earth would stop him telling a yarn.
And I liked Forrester’s yarns.
At last I heard his voice in the hall. He poked
his nose in at the door, and assured me that it was
worth having rheumatism to escape helping
to bury Squire Holmby.
“Not that the old squire didn’t make a very
picturesque exit. Few people have gone to
Valhalla with such pomp and frill as he did to-
day,’’ continued Forrester, stirring the whisky
punch cautiously. “It was not the stereotyped
pomp, but a new brand all his own, and almost
worth the inconvenience of watching it. We
left Deepwater at nine o’clock. We were to have
got away before eight, but there was such a crowd
that we had to breakfast in relays, and we started
neai’ly an hour late. It was a perfect morning,
and as we trotted along, up out of the l’olling
tussock came groups and knots of horsemen, and
dropped into the cortege. The majority were in
the dark blue uniform of the Canterbury Yeo-
manry, and very fine they looked. The squatter
was coffined in red rimu, covered with a Union
Jack, and rode on a gun carriage.
“ When we-were about 15 miles from Geraldine
I saw a small torpedo-shaped cloud rush suddenly
out from behind Four Peaks, and then whole
squadrons came sailing from between the peaks of
the Southern Alps, and in a few minutes the sky
was overcast. Muttering thunder ran round the
hills, red gleams showed momentarily, till with
a blinding flash and a deafening boom of thunder,
the rain fell in a vast sheet. We trotted on
through it, the bugles wailing spasmodically,
and what a long dreary two hours it was before
we caught a glimpse of the church spire of
Geraldine showing over the trees !
“ The bugles were answered, and when we came
down to the long, white bridge there were two
lines of men, all in the Yeomanry uniform, from
the bridge to the gate of the cemetery. Well,
just as the Squire crossed the bridge that infernal
downpour ceased, and the sun pierced a shaft
through the rolling inky mass, and shone down
full on the squatter’s coffin. Very slowly the
gun carriage climbed the hill on which the ceme-
tery is, and that strange unearthly sunlight
streamed right down upon it. It was a most
weird effect ! The massed bands of all Central
and Southern Canterbury were wailing the Dead
March from 4 Saul.’ The grave was waiting, and
the deluge had filled it with water, so that the
coffin floated. The Freemasons were gathered
round the grave, and they cast little sprigs of
green in on the squatter. The Shepherd Kings
heaped him over with white and purple lilies ;
old Brown, the sexton, poured clods upon him,
and then over the yellow mound they heaped
more lilies in the weird sunlight from the break
in the inky clouds. The Yeomanry fired three
farewell volleys. Then the clouds closed sud-
denly, and a fresh downpour sent them scurrying
to the pubs.
“You know Squatter Holmby didn’t deserve
all this frill. He was the incarnation of uncon-
scious selfishness, and with a lot of people that
stands for real greatness. He was apparently
devoid of all those affections and emotions that
go to make up normal humanity. An insatiable
desire for wealth, for which he had no use except
as a means to acquire still more wealth, and a
fearful devouring regard for what he called his
4 honox - ,’ were his chief characteristics. He made
much wealth, and founded many stations—and he
drove his wife to another man to find affection
and companionship.
* * * *
“ The reason why we were all taught to do him
extra reverence was because of his smashing of Te
Rouparaha. The Maori Napoleon, or Ghengis
Khan, or whatever his admirers like to call the
bloodthirsty brute, came raging down through
Marlborough after the Devil, his father, had
assisted him across Cook Strait, having a regular
carnival of murder and cannibalism. When he
came within sight of Kaiapoi Pah, the greatest
fortified post in all Maoriland, he was aghast at
the strength of the place. Moreover, old Tai-
aroa, with all the southern Maoris, lay on the
edge of the swamp ready to attack his flank the
moment he attacked the Pah. Te Roup, hauled
off and began to temporise. Taiaroa and
he got negotiating ; and Taiaroa got the worst of
the deal, for Te Roup, humbugged him, and sud-
denly assaulted and carried Kaiapoi before the
bamboozled Taiaroa could get through the swamp
to assist it. The slaughter was awful, and Te
Roup, ’s friends dined on roast baby that night.
Next morning they fell on Taiaroa with the fury
of tigers, and the southerner was crumpled all up.
As the two armies went thundering down the
Plains, killing and being killed, the northern
Maoris came across flocks of strange animals
which were almost as good eating as the people of
Otago. They were Holmby’s specially imported
merinos and crossbreds.
44 Three days later Te Roup, was astounded to-
find himself attacked in the rear by a small band
of mounted white men, led by a youngish man
with a beard the color of a tussock. This was
Edward Holmby, and such men as he could
raise, and they didn’t number more than. 70, all
told. But they had caught Te Roup, in a bad
spot; his crowd was struggling across the shingle
reaches of the bed of the lower Rangitata when
the white men rode down on them and opened fire
at 50yds. All day long the roar of battle went up
between the shingle cliffs, and drowned even the
crashing of the boulders. Hour after hour the
white men rode down on the rushing Maoris and
shot them like dogs, wheeled, galloped away, re-
loaded, and came again. And between every
shingle drift were brown corpses. At last the
Maoris fled; 'but there was no shelter. Behind
them thundered the terrible horsemen, and they
withered away under the deadly rifle fire till they
were glad to beg mercy on their knees. What
did the great Chief of the Golden Beard desire of
his brown children ?
“The Great Chief of the Golden Beard was
brief and emphatic :
44 4 You can kill and eat one another till you’re
damned well tired, but our sheep are sacred, and
tapu are their lives and wool; neither may they be
disturbed. Get out! ’
“And they got out, quickly. And here endeth
the greatness of Edward Holmby.
• * *
“For the next 16 years Holmby went on accu-
mulating wealth and piling station upon station,
till, like the old Scotch county of Cromarty, his
territory was all over the country. . Finally, he
settled down at Deepwater, and, of all things,
married. The unfortunate lady was Miss Doyle,
daughter of Esmeralda station. She went to live
at Deepwater, where, faint and far, on stormy,
nights, could be heard the ci’ash and boom of the
South Pacific on the shingle bow of Ninety Mile
Beach. Fora pastime she turned the place into a
wilderness of roses, for her husband was never at
home ; he spent his life roaming round his various
properties, auditing books, inspecting works and
sheep, and supervising expei’iments to determine
the relationship between soil and wool. Usually
his tall, gray-eyed wife, who, by the way, had
beautiful brown hair, saw him about every half-
year. Deepstream was the only station he didn’t
audit and inspect carefully; and he gave as a
reason for it that Ambrose Mort, the manager,
was a fool, who hadn’t brains enough to do any-
thing but what he was told.
“Ten miles from Deepstream homestead the
shingle beach gives way to an irruption of rocks,
honeycombed with a series of curious caves.
Through some of them at high tide the waves roll
thunderously, but Others are above even the
spring tides, and remarkably dry. There are also
patches of singing Muds, and the whole region is
wild and romantic. Stretching from this rocky
shore a tract of yr'onderfully fertile soil runs
inland. Holmby had for years tried to buy it,
but someone in the Lands Office always baulked
him. He could get the leasehold, but not even
bribery secured the freehold.
44 When Mrs. Holmby heard that there were
singing sands at Ocean Oaves she becam greeatly
interested, and frequently drove out there in the
mornings, returning in the evenings just in time
for dinner, at which meal Ambrose Mort always
joined her.
“ One day Holmby returned to Deepwater, to
find that the lease of that wonderfully fertile
strip had been cancelled, and the land sold to the
Ocean Caves Syndicate, Ltd. At first he was
very angry, but suddenly he remarked :
“ ‘That's good ; we will buy that syndicate out,
later on, Mort ! ’
“ ‘ Have you got all of ours off, and have the
others been put on ? ’
“ ‘ I got all ours off immediately I got notice of
the sale, but I am unable to say if the others
have been put on.’
“ Mr. Holmby blew his whistle, and when the
groom appeared he was sent to ascertain if the
new owners’ stock had been put on the strip. He
was back inside two hours with the information
that two men with guns had ordered him off,
threatening him with arrest as a trespasser if he
came again. He had threatened them with Mr.
Holmby’s displeasure and then the groom
stopped.
“ ‘ Well, what happened then ? You were quite
right. I sent you. Of course they apologised ! ’
“ ‘ No, sir, they didn’t; they said they’d bundle
you off too, if you came.’
“ ‘ Had they been drinking?’
“ 4 Well, sir, I suppose they must have been,
though they didn’t show any signs that way.’
“ ‘Very well, you-can go now. I’ll deal with
them later on.’
* ■* * *
“Next day the great Edward Holmby himself
was ordered off the Ocean Caves Station, under
pain of being instantly arrested. He dared them
to arrest him. But the man coarsely assured
him they wouldn’t take the trouble, and there-
upon smote the squatter’s horse over the hind
quarters with his hunting crop, and Mr. Holmby
had to go, willy nilly. When he did manage to
pull the brute up, he considered the question, and
saw that Ocean Caves had as much right to keep
him off its property as he had to keep them from,
inspecting the new pigsties he had just put up.
“A few nights later he came home to dinner
and found it served in his library, where he
always retired immediately after the meal to read.
He ate his dinner, rang for the maid to clear, and
settled down with book and pipe. As was his
wont, he smoked and read till far into the morn-
ing, and then he rang the bell fiercely till the
cook, who knew his habit, served grilled kidneys.
“ ‘ Ask Mrs. Holmby if she would care to join
me ! ’ he said to the sleepy servant.
“ 4 Mrs. Holmby did not return home last night.
She went away early, and has not come back.’
“Mr. Holmby looked at her with a pained
expression.
44 4 Why did you not let me know? Tell Mr.
Mort I wish to see him ! ’
“‘Mr. Mort’s away too—he was driving, and
they’ve neither of them come back. As Mrs.
Holmby took so much luggage, I thought she had
gone to Christchurch, sir ! ’
“‘O, very well,’ and Mr. Holmby went on
with his reading.
“The cook went, and, no doubt, made many
bright and original remarks in the kitchen. Mr.
Holmby went on reading for a while, and then
he went down to the office, and started to over-
haul Mort’s boolcs, and daylight found him still
examining them.
“At the end of three days’ careful study of
Ambrose Mort’s books, Mr. Holmby suddenly
gave orders that the Whole of the employees were
to assemble at the office. When they arrived
there he swore them in as special constables,
armed them, and started for Ocean Caves home-
stead. As usual, they were met by the two arnled
shepherds, who discreetly retired in the face of
superior force, after sending up a cloud of smoke.
Mr. Holmby pushed on to the station. The
homestead was no better than a cottage, but
round it, in the shape of a great mass of newly-
planted rose cuttings, he recognised his wife’s
handiwork.
“ Leaving his men at the bottom of the garden,
Holmby rode up to the verandah, and tapped the
post with his hunting-crop. He was answered by
a maid in cap and streamers, who said 1 that Mr.
and Mrs. Mort lived there, and when the gushing
young woman brought out a photo of Mrs. Mort,
Holmby recognised his wife, and knew that what
he suspected was true. Fortunately for them, the
maid did not know in which direction Mr. and
Mrs. Mort were to be found that day, and before
they returned Holmby was back at Deepstream.
“On hearing that her husband had called on her,
‘Mrs. Mort ’ became terrified. She knew that Mort
was outnumbered, and in any conflict must be
beaten. He was not even a Justice of the Peace,
and that was a heavy handicap. What she
feared was that Holmby would take her back to
Deepwater by main force and practically make a
prisoner of her. Having once called and ascer-
tained where she was, she felt certain Holmby
would come again, though in the beginning she
had hoped he would wash his hands of her, and
devote himself more strenuously to the making of
money and determining of the relationship be-
tween soil and wool.
“As a matter of fact, it was not Mrs. Holmby,
nor his outraged honor, that the great Chief of the
Golden Beard was worrying about. It was that
wonderfully fertile strip of ground that Mort had
jockeyed him out of. That was his trouble.
With cultivation it would run 15 sheep to the
acre, and the loss of it broke Holmby’s heart, and
al l his letters to his f riends at that time were filled
with references to 1 this terrible blow, the loss of
this splendid land !’ His wife was hardly men-
tioned.
‘ ‘ Mort decided that the homestead was no longer
a safe place for the lady, and she flatly refused to
allow him to stay in it unless she was with him.
She feared violence at the hands of the hero of
Rangitata Reach, and at last persuaded Mort to
take some furniture and provisions down to one
of the caves. He took them secretly in a Yankee
waggon, under cover of the night, and‘Mrs. Mort’
selected the driest cave, and made it into a rather
comfortable chamber. Every evening, after
dinner, they used to ride down to the caves and
sleep there, riding back to breakfast in the morn-
ing. The employees were warned that there was
danger in the air, and on no account to run risks
by trying to defend the house should it be
attacked.
“The fury of a woman scorned was gentle raillery
compared to the rage of an old-time squatter done
out of choice land, and ‘Mrs. Mort’s’ intuition was
correct. Mr. Holmby did sweep down one wild
night when a nor’-wester was starting to blow,
firing tussock as he came. The servants at Ocean-
Caves faithfully obeyed orders and made for
safety, and from a distance watched the dark,!
(Continued on next page;)


KIDNEY TROUBLE affects PEOPLE DIFFERENTLY
Though no two persons alike are
affected in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man may suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism —another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous, and despondent —
her neighbour may have all the
symptoms of dropsy or Bright’s disease.
It depends on the sufferer’s constitution
and the nature of the impurities kept
back in the body by the blood filters —
the kidneys.
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills
Should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong. ■ .
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation; they drive out the uric
acid that irritates the kidney mem-
branes and clogs the passages. Doan’s
Pills help the kidneys in their great
blood-filtering work, and give tone
to the whole kidney organism.
□
rnnuuii
C«U
©
c
c
c
“ Every -picture tells a story.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Piiis are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box, or
posted free by Foster-McCieilan Co., 76 Pitt.street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin-lane, Surry Hills, Sydney,
says:—“For nine years I’ve been troubled with the
kidneys. In that time I used all sorts of remedies, but
the first to do me good was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills —these were Al. I used to get pains in the back
and across the shoulders, hot flushes of blood to my
head, burning pain under the eyes; I was frightfully
nervous, and had palpitation of the heart. Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills started to relieve me when I had taken
a few doses. After I had taken them for a week, I felt
so well that I forgot to take them. Anybody who needs
a kidney medicine should get Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above five years later-
“ I am free of every distressing symptom mentioned above,
and have been ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney 1 ills
cured me five years ago.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-Railwa'y Guard, 749
Harris-stn-et, Ultimo, says: —“Some time ago I strained
myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the
effect in the small of my back. For three solid months
was unable to work. I had a very lame back, and a dul
pain through the loins and the kidneys, and my secretions
became unnatural and irregular. I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and obtained wonderful relief. lam so much
better, I can now do heavy work. I am firmly convinced
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and I never fail to recommend them among my friends.
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement:—“ lam still
well, and have never suffered with my kidneys since Doans
Backache Kidney Pills cured me eight years ago.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kid ney
Jm
PHIS.
•
gliding figures in the glare of the burning tussock
as they burned the homestead. They saw
squatter Holmby sitting on his horse, watching it
go up in smoke and sparks, and then saw him
ride off again towards Deepwater.
“The sanctuary at Ocean Caves was a dead
secret. By midnight the howling nor’-wester
suddenly ceased. A curious calm fell over the
land, and a horrible feeling of something about to
happen, as the medical advertisement says, fell
on the houseless servants of Ocean Caves. They
longed for the dawn and the reappearance of their
master, who would start to reorganise things.
“Far away from the North came a rumbling
sound, and the earth heaved gently. It was not
a shock, just a gentle heave, a feeling that a wave
had swept under the solid earth and gently forced
it up, and all over Canterbury the shingle ter-
races rustled musically.
“Down at Ocean Caves the sleepers felt the
gentle heave, and were awakened by the crash of
falling rock. Then the stillness lulled them
again.
“ When they arose next morning, Mort was hor-
rified to find that exit was cut off by a mass of
rock that had crashed down across the entrance.
Being of a philosophical mind, he straightway
began to wonder whether it was fortunate or
otherwise that the supply of air was uninter-
rupted. If they were discovered in time, it would
be good ; if no one came along that way before
starvation did its work, it would be a misfortune.
At the station, the people waited vainly, and,
when midday came without any sign of the squat-
ter, his people concluded that he had fallen into
the hands of Holmby and been murdered. They
erected shelters for the maids, and, while some of
the men killed mutton, which was all they had
to eat, others started off to Esmeralda station to
acquaint ‘Mrs. Mort’s’ people with what had hap-
pened.
“ The Doyles were shocked at their sister’s con-
duct, but, all the same, they weren’t going to
stand by tamely while her roof was burned over
her head and her lover shot. For the hands had
represented that Mort had been shot and the lady
carried off prisoner.
“Next morning, Squatter Holmby, who was
beginning to wonder if he had not overdone it,
received an armed deputation. The Doyles
arrived in full force and demanded an account of
their sister. Holmby assured them she was with
Mort. ‘ But where is Mort?’ they queried.
‘ He’s not been seen since you burned him out.
Neither has she. We’re going to rake the ruins,
and if we find anything, you’ll swing, as sure as
your name is Edward Holmby.’
“ Holmby sat back and breathed hard. Was it
possible that Mort and Emily had been burned in
their home. Once the hands knew that, they
would probably turn on him. In fact, he knew
they would—the obedience of even Canterbury
hands of the feudal period didn’t run to burning
women alive. Squatter Holmby waited till the
Doyles had disappeared beyond the home pad-
docks, and then he mounted a horse, the fastest
in the stable, and galloped wildly away towards
Ocean Beach. His saddle bristled with fire-
arms. He did not believe his wife and Mort were
dead, but the danger was that the Doyles might
find something in the ashes that would lead them
to believe she was—and Holmby felt his throat
tenderly.
“ Well, it seems that the cats had not escaped,
or some of the pets had been burned, for some
tiny fragments of charred bones were discovered.
They didn’t bear the least resemblance to human
bones, but the Doyles were excitable young men.
Ingram Doyle burst into tears and hoarsely
called on his brothers to follow him and avenge
thpir murdered sister.
" In a few minutes the whole of them were gal-
loping back to Deepwater. As they approached
the station they expected to find preparations for a
fight; but there were none, and the people seemed
considerably scared at their appearance.
“ They rushed into the house and demanded
Holmby, dead or alive. He could not be found.
One of the men told how he had ridden away
bristling with firearms. He opined that the
squatter had taken refuge in one of the caves
down where the singing sands were. There one
man, while he remained awake, could defy an
army. . .
“‘Take us to these caves immediately, said
Ingram Doyle. ‘ Saddle up the best horse in his
stable, and show the way. You can’t sympathise
with a ruffian who burns a woman in her bed,
surely ! ’
“ The man, who had probably borne a hand m
the firing, shuddered as he reprobated any con-
nection with such horrors. In five minutes he
was leading the way to Ocean Caves. It was
afternoon when they arrived there, and searching
around for tracks Ingram Doyle heard someone
cooee. At first some of the men who knew the
romantic reputation of the place said it was a
good locality to get out of, but the Doyles went
on searching. Again that faint cooee. They
tried to locate it, but it was an hour before they
did, and then it took the whole party, using gun-
barrels and driftwood from the beach below as
levers, to roll the mass away and rescue the couple
within.
* * * *
“Squatter Holmby escaped safely to the North
Island, after a terrible journey. He made his
way on horseback along the sea-coast, right
up through Canterbury, across Banks’ Peninsula
and through Marlborough, under the impression
that he was being hotly pursued, and that detec-
tives would be waiting for him at Christchurch.
It was only when he was preparing to make a
dash for New Caledonia, or Chili, or somewhere
in a small yacht that he heard that his wife was
alive and well, and that his terrific journey was
wasted effort, owing to the fact that he was never
pursued. He eventually made peace by obtaining
a divorce from his wife, and rebuilding the home-
stead at Ocean Caves. Old Mort was down at
Geraldine to-day. He has buried the hatchet.”
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Trap.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE trap and I were chums—that is, we
used to fish together on Sundays off the
rocks, and used to confide in each other as
far as we thought it advisable.
There was an old fellow named Jerry over the
mountain, and he made a drop of grog. There
were, I believe, many stills over that way, but I
was only sure of Jerry’s. The stuff was made
mostly of bran and sugar. White it was, and
strong as sheep wash —would burn a hole in almost
anything. I took a small schnapps bottle of it
into a cowyard one morning, and the smell of it
caused a riot.
The trap was always watching the mountain
for the smoke of illicit stills, but I don’t fancy he
often spotted them. The stills mostly operated
on foggy days. He didn’t care too much about
poking around after the mountain distillers in
person, because a gun, pointed by an unseen
hand, might go off any time ; or a lot of other
things might happen in the gullies.
Old Jerry had an agent in the town. A lame
man the agent was, and always got about on
crutches. I don’t know rightly how he got rid of
the stuff, but I had a notion that a lot of it
reached Sydney in milk-cans, same as it does to
this day. When I felt like it, I bought all I re-
quired from the agent at eighteen pence per
square face, and he did a pretty considerable
trade locally. Nearly all the J’s.P. were cus-
tomers of his. People used to be surprised at
the number of loony-looking men who mooched
around town—and men who were never seen in-
side a pub, at that. When you see a big per-
centage of loony characters in any community,
vou can swear there is a still handy. The J’s.P.
were all loony ; but that didn’t signify.
As I said before, the trap and I were friends.
One day, over a couple of beers, he told .me, in
confidence, how it had been reported to him that
Jerry was expected down the mountain that
night with a load of stuff. He was going to ride
out about 11 o’clock, and land him, and he wanted
me to accompany him; but I didn’t happen to
have time. I had important business in town,
and told him so. People, the trap explained, had
been complaining a lot about Jeremiah and his
cart.
The old hoppy agent, who went round on
crutches, couldn’t ride for sour apples, but he
always had a fast horse stabled, and something
had to be done in a hurry—a real fast hurry. I
didn’t trust the agent much, and told him no
details. But, at 9 o’clock that night, I was riding
for the mountain as fast as Hoppy’s horse could
move under list. I met Jerry right enough about
a quarter of a mile from the top, with some 50
gallons of fire-water, and warned him. Jerry’s
language was beautiful.
Ten minutes later, I was bound for town, fear-
ful that I might meet the trap on the road. I
reckoned lie must be on the road somewhere.
There was no getting across country there, so I
rode hard and hoped for all I was worth, for I had
a character to maintain and a billet to keep. But
my luck was out. * Long before I got to the cross-
roads, where I meant to diverge and get out of the
way. of trouble, I heard the clatter of a horse
coming my way. It made a row that any sensible
trap, out looking for a malefactor, should have
been ashamed of.
There was neither bush nor gutter anywhere
handy that I could dodge into until he passed,
and I was reckless. When I got within 50 yards
of him, I spread myself down along my mount,
bushranger fashion, and made a dash for it.
I could never just remember passing him, but
I have dim recollections of being called upon to
stand in the Queen’s name, and of hearing shots
and curses, and sounds of pursuit. But l rode
like the wind, and presently the enemy was hull
down on the horizon.
When the trap met old Jerry, he went through
his cart, but found nothing under the load of
sorghum. Jerry afterwards said that the trap’s
language was disgraceful.
I don’t mind telling you now that I had an in-
terest in that grog-manufacturing concern ; and
that’s mostly why I rode so hard.
I often wondered why the trap let me into the
secret; but I discovered all about it some years
a ter, after he had retired from the force. He
was also one of the firm. And I might have
broken my neck saving his grog and helping him
to work up a reputation for vigilance.
YAERUM.
Rue.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Night her own world make 9
apart,
And hushes noisy street and mart,
And stills the City’s throbbing heart—
When sleep walks through the city, free,
With shoes of silence silently—
My bitter Self comes home to me.
He will not be by force gainsaid ;
He has no fear of me, no dread
He lies beside me in my bed.
He will not let me rest; his eyes
Burn through my brain ; he pants and sighs
And evermore his poniard plies.
Between the hours of dark and day
Most people die, the wise folk say
I know the reason ; so do they.
Ah me ! The tender Moon that shone
Long, long ago my bed upon —
Where is she now ? Where has she gone ?
She used to come to me at Night,
And stroke my face with fingers white,
And whisper stories of delight.
“ Beyond the world, beyond the day,
There is a bright world far away !
Come, little stranger ! ” she would say.
“ This glad, green earth that now you see,
Which seems, by day, so full of glee,
Is not my world of wizardry.”
That tender golden moon of yore
Is dead ; I see her face no more,
Da Luan haivn ! Asthore! Asthore!
The lamplight through my chamber gleams;
I watch the clock, as one in dreams ;
The long hand like a dagger seems.
In vain I sigh, and turn, and start;
In vain are all the drugs of art —
That dagger strikes into my heart.
Good friends I had in days gone by—
No man had more beneath the sky—
Good friends I have—and what am I ?
I gave to them, for follies wild,
The small excuses of a child,
And they, with fond forgiveness, smiled.
When comes the last dread Reckoning Day,
And all are judgi d—l humbly pray—
Dear God, be Thou as kind as they !
VICTOR J. DALEY.


If you are run down, losing strength, are greatly
debiSitated, and suffer from the long, hot summer,
there is one medicine that will quickly cure you. It is
AYER’S sar s a pari Ma
Read this interesting testimonial of a lady residing at East Brisbane
R
“ The past season I had a severe at*
tack of dengue fever, which left me
feeling very weak and languid, with
little appetite and no energy; but I
am pleased to say Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
cured me.
“As a blood purifier and tonic for
those who are affected by the debili-
tating heat of the Queensland summer,
it is unequaled, and I am pleased to
recommend it to those who need a reli-
able remedy.”
If you are sick, you cer-
tainly should give Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla a thorough trial. It
cannot fail to help you, for it purifies the blood first of all.
Then your nerves become steady and strong, and the hot
weather of summer does not affect you. Remember, it is
a wonderful medicine for the children, too, when they are
thin and feeble, pale and languid. Put your confidence in
it, for there is no family medicine in the world its equal.
Make sure that you get “ AYER’S ” Sarsaparilla
not some other kind, put up to imitate it, and
which will do you no good.
Prepared by DU. J. C. AYEB & CO., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Aver’s PUIs cure dyspepsia ; strengthen the stomach.
-' '
And Artistic
CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent, 's Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
We take all the Ri3k. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not. make you
' this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
V
•
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
If!
s
£Y\
GETTING DARK IN
THE MORNINGS NOW
and possibly you have to get up by
candle light. i
It is a little difficult to know the proper time, and
what you need is a good alarm clockxlirect from “ the
store where quality counts.”
We can supply the regular pattern, with bell on
top, like the illustration shown here, at the following
prices— 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 9/6, post free to your
address.
The one we specially recommend is the “SPAS-
MODIC ALARM CLOCK,” made by the Water-
bury Co. This rings for half a minute, and gives
another alarm every alternate half minute for 15
minutes. With a clock like this in your room it is no
use turning over and trying to deceive yourself that
thfe call is meant for someone else. The price is
9/6
' POST FREE TO YOUR HOME.
Other clocks are illustrated in the big “A & 0 ”
Catalogue. Will you please write for a copy ?
We pay the postage on anything purchased here,
and if on receipt of the parcel you are in any way
dissatisfied with the article, please return it and we
will cheerfully refund your money.
ANGUS & GOOTE,
GEORGE ST., Corner Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
ASTHMACURE
1 ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nerrons Couchs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GR!’ 1 * T ” m -
ETTES.
lUMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
Bold by all Chemistt.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored
Four Weeks by the use of
O 6 RX COROs
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queer
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness.
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remed>
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
. Write To-day.
Address i HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss o
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth
street, Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
“On the? Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the ease
for Protection froth all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
Handy to have in the House.
, A ox BEECHAM S PILLS is a handy thing to have in
the house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need much
illness will be saved.
Any trouble arising from derangement of the digestive
organs is quickly set right by
This unrivalled medicine will do more to build up robust
health and maintain it than any other remedy.
They are unequalled tor
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEAPACHE,
INDIGESTION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
P-23
L
sag
Sfe
g&HS
§2
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR FEMALES OF ALL AGES.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price Hl\ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
If You. wisli to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your • . .
Rabbit tSkins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
*>» ■ 1
' TO—
HILL, CLARK ®. CO.,
SYDNEY.
!/
INS
VP*
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat.s r improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREES.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC B£LT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
.cele, indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back, Kid-
ney. Live ,andSt machComplaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
A fine budget of books for the winter fire :
Such is “Life” by Tom Collins 4s. Gd. ; The
Bulletin Story Book 4s. Gd. ; The Bulletin
Reciter 4s. 6d. ; The Southern Garland 4s. Gd.
You can get the four for 15s. post free from this
o fice. A representative group of Australian
books.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney,
\\ZILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
T T BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ot. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
k
Superior to
COPAIBA
and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the sama
diseases in 4.8
hours v/lthcai
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name feir
MIDY
-4
men
WOMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: tO to 4, 7 to 0 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if yon apply to
I>r. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 602 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 103 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised ir< e
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaidia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with iom -
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful.diseases., Xd similar book has ever been published.
FREE A 'W-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate.
~ * *”“ giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE,
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on l)r. Martin and Ins'
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
any where on receipt of Is (Id (stamps). Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when Writing
'Z.'mlay Hzuce,
151 EUzaheth-st..
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,


TO KEEP YOU WARM
ĸ
AND DRY
USE CUH
MACINTOSHES.
AT ALL PRICES.
Special Qualities
30 / m , 42
Send for samples of Materials of which
these are made. When ordering-, give
height and chest measure.
Our List of Winter Requirements Free on Request.
Perdriau Rubber Co.ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
k
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Pest Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
1 for Illustrated Lists of Books
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G. P.O.m SYONE
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
ancj Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
ALOGUES FREE
to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Price 6d
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. -Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS
& J. LEKPRIERE,
606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST.. SYDNEY.
ķ
k
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST,
m
■
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
•
i
■§! ; :
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES anil FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE. IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS,
Valves Lathes
Lubricators Drilling Machines
G.M. Fittings Boilers, Injectors
Blacksmiths’ Tools Emery Wheels
Engineers’ Tools Bolts, Rivets
Wheels and Axles Bar Iron & Steel
Wire Ropes Sheets, Plates
etc., etc. Mining Steel.
BALL
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Profes mat
or THE
Silvertoiun Rubber «.
279 GEORGE STREL T,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
ffl
'n •„ « r ,:
m
m.
Is carrying all before it.
After long Competitive Tests the Gold
Prince Co., Colorado, adopted the “Card,”
and installed 76 in their New Mill.
V. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Manufacturers,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 486 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
