

ID
R. G. WATKINS «$& GO.,
107 XCexrb street, Sydney,
' V —FOR— _
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
3BCC>39'JK«; 1 37;
\
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
FSTON PORTABLE STEAM
Are used throughout AUSTRALIA by Squatters, Farmers, Sawmillers and others because
they have IMPROVEMENTS adapting them to the Special Requirements of the country.
Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to SOLE AGENTS
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.
9f
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON
HAMS ®
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
Tlaticnals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OFN.Z.
Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security,
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St-, Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
■a*
a
!.
For
DELIVERY, SUf^ION,
Your Entff fr
STEAM,
and
S to-
OR
■
ROCK DRIL
SJLVERTOWN,
ENGLAND.
.
Telephone
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
279 Ceorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
882,
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. ''
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDBIEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
f
'AL
rcii
>k
EASTWAVS
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IQI
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
gkner.au,
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-MaKing Machinery.
MTtmnH SPA WATER.
HELIDON SPA WATER is a perfect
T, K 1» WMor.
■SJ.U33V
oo ?s? Nmoo
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1447.]
[Thursday, November 7, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Bullen, P. T., Call of the Deep, cloth 3s 6d, post sd.
Duncan, Steam and Other Engines, ss, post ed.
Kipling, Life’s Handicap, new uniform pocket edition, in
scarlet limp leather, 6s, post 4d. ,
McVaHs, Prevention of Infectious Diseases, 10s, post 6d.
Bailey, The Brewer’s Analyst, 15s, post Bd,
Saintsbury, Later 16th Century Literature, 6s, post 6d.
Gilbert Parker, The Weavers, paper covers 2s 6d cloth
bound 3s 6d, postage 6d.
MacLaren, lan, St. Judes, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
TO ARRIVE SHORTLY.
CLOTH, with 8 fllus., 3a. 6d.,
6 cl.
THE YOUHCER SET,
A Novel, by Robert W. Chambers, author of “ Iole,” “ The Fighting- Chance »
. - Cardigan etc. The story is full of freshness, vigor, and the extraordi-
nary charm which Mr. Chambers succeeded in putting into “The Fighting Chance.” The book deals with smart
society, its good and bad points, and the scene is laid in York and in the country houses surrounding New York.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
Fob the Cure op
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voioe.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung;
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE’*
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat"
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL. JUJUBES
Unlike Ooug-h Medicines, do not cause gastric diseomfort or digestive derangement.
“ Tub Practitioner ” cays “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments."
Sold by a/I Chemists* Tins, Is. 6d.
THE RED Page
THE CIRCUMNAVIGATOR.
. . . The ruder Italy laid bare
By that keen Searcher of the Seas
Whose tempest-battling, never-baffled keel
Left half our planet little to reveal;
But restless roaming everywhere,
Zig-zagged the vast Pacific, as he prest.
With god-like patience, his benignant quest;
True hero-god, who realised the notion
Its races feign of mythic Maui still,
And plucked up, with a giant might of will,
A hundred islands from Oblivion's ocean !
Sea-king and sage—staunch huntsman of pure
Fame,
Beating the waste of waters for his game,
Untrodden shores or tribes without a name ;
That nothing in an island’s shape,
Mist-muffled peak or faint cloud-cape,
Might his determined thoughtful glance escape;
No virgin lands be left unknown,
Where future Englands might be sown.
And nations noble as his own !'
ALFRED DOMETT.
CAPTAIN COOK
IT happily occurred to Arthur Kitson, the
author of the latest life of Captain
James Cook (Murray, per Dymock’s
Library, Sydney), to discard the various
biographies and go direct to the Admiralty
fecords for his information. The result is a
valuable study of the great discoverer that
sheds new light upon his character and his
career. In Kitson’s view, Cook has two claims
to fame ; in addition to his rank as discoverer,
he was the first successfully to combat that
dread enemy of the sailor in those days of
long voyages—the scurvy. Prior to Cook’s
triumphant demonstration of his ability td
keep his crew in health, scurvy made
tremendous ravages among seamen.
Cook’s method was to avail himself
of every possible opportunity to vary
the food of his crew with fresh vegetables ;
at every country he came to his first care
was to search the place for “ wild celery,”
“scurvy grass," or any possible substitute.
In Maoriland he brewed a spruce-beer that
seems to have been a valuable preventative
of the disease. This care was but one aspect
of Cook’s incessant attention to detail.
During the whole of the first voyage, with
the exception of the terrible outbreak of
malaria, responsible for almost universal
sickness and a number of deaths, at Batavia,
where Cook had to put in to repair his
damaged ship, the “Endeavour” had had
only five cases of scurvy—“ a report such as
had never before been made by one of His
Majesty’s ships after a voyage of any con-
siderable length. This was most un-
doubtedly due to the careful forethought and
constant attention of her commander to
everything, no matter how trivial, which he
thought would tend to "prevent the horrible
scourge from getting a foothold on board.”
On his three voyages, during which he re-
mained away for years, only two deaths
occurred from this disease; while it was a
usual occurrence for the ships of the navy to
be put out of service owing to losses from
this disease even on a voyage across the
Atlantic.
Working his way up from apprentice in
the mercantile marine to the position of
mate m a Whitby collier, Cook volunteered for
the navy as A.B. He knew that experienced
seamen, despite the efforts of the “press,”
were difficult to obtain, and that men of a
certain amount of nautical knowledge and
good character could soon raise themselves
above the rank of ordinary seamen. He was
then 27 years old. A month after his entry
into the navy he was rated as master’s mate,
and two years later became master. And
Cook had a varied service in the navy before
he became an explorer. He was present at
the siege of Quebec, and rendered such note-
worthy service as a surveyor that the
Admiralty thereafter marked him out for
chart-making. So it was that when it was
decided to send an expedition to the South
Seas to observe the transit of Venus Cook
was the obvious man to take command. Of
the exactitude and the thoroughness of the
charts he made as the result of his circum-
navigation of the two islands of Maoriland
subsequent explorers speak in the highest
terms. Many of Cook’s charts are even now
the basis of those actually in use at the
Admiralty, and in these there is much that
has been found to require no alteration. And
these charts were made under the most un-
favorable circumstances. An instance of the
difficulties encountered in the navigation of
the Great Barrier Reef is given by Cook in
his journal :
We sailed upon this coast near 400 leagues by
the lead, with sometimes one, sometimes two and
three boats ahead to direct us, and yet, with all
this precaution, we were often obliged to anchor
with all sails standing to prevent running ashore.
<252?
Cook made no claim to being the dis-
coverer of Australia. His journal expressly
states that on leaving Maorilandhe resolved
to sail westward “until he fell in with the
east coast of New Holland, and then to
follow that coast to the northward or what
other direction it might take, until we arrive
at its northern extremity ; and if it shoulc
be found impracticable, then to endeavor to
fall in with the lands or islands discoverec
by Quiros.” His only claim, and a very jus;
one, is that he discovered and traced the
course of the eastern coast. Cook took
possession of this eastern coast “by the
name of ‘New Wales’,” though Admira
Wharton says that in the King’s copy of
Cook’s Journal and in the Admiralty copy
the ( name is given as “New South Wales.’
Subsequently, in a letter, he terms it New
South Wales. Kitson observes with refer-
ence to the elaim of De Quiros to the dis-
covery of Australia :
Every information available points to De
Quiros’s discovery being the Island of Santo, anc
not Australia, and it is now universally accepted
that that island is where he turned, back, owing
to a mutiny on board his ship.
Kitson treats in detail Cook’s vain effort
to find the alleged North-West passage from
the Pacific to the Atlantic, and rightly lays
stress upon the valuable explorations made
by Cook in the Arctic and Antarctic regions.
The navigator appears from this biography
as a brave, plain, conscientious man, with a
great command of detail and a remarkable
pertinacity in verifying his conclusions. Of
the personality of the man we know
little save that he was esteemed alike by his
crew and the scientific world. The extra-
ordinary estimation in which he was held
was shown by the safe conducts that Spain,
the United States and France, then all at
war with Britain, issued in favor of the great
discoverer. “In consideration of his services
to mankind,” instructions were given by
these powers to their fleets to regard him as
a neutral.
On the point of the ultimate fate of the
“Endeavour,” Kitson would do well to
accept guidance from Robert McNab’s valu-
able conclusions in his recent work, Muri-
hiku; but otherwise the biography is one
that, abridged, should be of value in our
schools.
FOR AUSTRALASIAN PRESSMEN
■^ rom John L. Given’s Making a Newspaper
(G. Bell, London, per Sydney Book Club) it
appears to be an excellent thing not to be an
American reporter. Also, the heaviest chunk of
luck that can be hurled at anybody is not to be a
New York editor. Also, also, it is quite worth while
for the Australasian pressman to stay at home.
J. L. Given’s picture of the American paper in
the making is elaborate and—to Australian eyes—•
misguidedly enthusiastic. He has a touching
faith that the American paper is somehow worth
while.
In the pursuit, capture and prompt exhibition
of news, it is true the American press can giye
points to the world, though it has a large and in-
definite idea as to what constitutes news. In
New York news is systematically watched for at
recognised news-centres, of which police-stations
and law-courts are merely the most obvious of a
long list, by a co-operative association which
maintains a staff of sixty reporters whose business
is to furnish news jointly to all the members of
the concern. Ihe “stories” are then re-investi-
gated or re-written by each paper’s separate staff.
And not only is news so systematised, but certain
kinds of news can be confidently expected at cer-
tain times. For example, Monday morning is the
recognised time for the receipt of a crop of suicide
“stories.” After a “drunk ”on Saturday night,
the laborer, appalled at the prospect of another
week’s work, usually cuts his throat. In summer,
suicides are always expected after a particu-
larly hot night, while oh especially cold morn-
ings extra space is reserved for fires. On a
big “story,” where a number of reporters from
competing papers are assembled, they co-operate
by exchanging news, and the reporter who plays
false with other news-gatherers, accepts their
gleanings and remains silent about his own, is
doomed. He becomes a marked man, and everv
other reporter will strive to the utmost to land
him in a series of defeats ; and with so many
against the one the defeats are sure to come.
Then he makes his paper ridiculous and loses his
job. Incidentally, it may be noted that Given’s
book is really an elaborate recital of the innumer-
able ways in which an American reporter can lose
his job. His is a precarious profession. But
though apparently no particle of disgrace attaches
to a reporter who has lost his job, it must fre-
quently be confusing to a reporter to remember at
any moment what particular paper he is working
for.
OS?
“There is no reporter who is not aware that
every time he goes out on an assignment, he runs
a risk of putting himself in disfavor with the
editor by whose grace he keeps his place, and no
editor who does not realise that each article that
passes through his hands may prove his undoing.
Once a year city newspapers have a house-clean-
mg, when all the reporters who have failed to
prove their worth are dismissed. . . . Having
been in an office three years, a man is pretty safe,
as long as he keeps up his general standard, and
avoids a bad defeat. . . . The newspaper business
is one wherein young men shine, and, having
faded to fight their way well towards the front,
the middle-aged find small demand for their serl
vices. The fittest survive only until they are
unfit, and sentiment is not allowed to interfere
with the process of exclusion. Further, there are
in newspaper offices no easy berths for men of
long service; advancement brings, not only
heavier responsibilities, but harder work and
often longer hours as well.”
And it isn’t much of a job even when the
reporter keeps it.. He is not allowed much time
to dawdle. On an evening paper, the main force
of reporters begin work at 8 a.m., and as fast as a
man finishes one assignment he gets another. The
city editor’s schedule makes no allowance for
lunch. The “star” reporter is not left idle on
days when there is no news of importance. “The
war-correspondent in times of peace is glad to go
to fires, and he gets his full share of school-board
meetings.” On the sensational press, the reporter
must provide sensations. “Told to look into a
suicide, it does not occur to him to get the facts
in plain sight, or where all is not clear to let the
evidence lead to a dull verdict. First, he endea-
vors to squeeze the suicide into a semblance
of a murder. Failing in this, or the facts
absolutely prohibiting the attempt, he tries to
find something that will make the causes
leading to the suicide a mystery. Not meeting
with success in this direction, he asks whether it
is not true that some other members of the
suicide’s family have killed themselves. Still
failing to score, he goes over a list of recent self-
inflicted deaths in an effort to discover the exist-
ence of a ‘suicide club,’ and, unsuccessful here,
nerves himself, and perhaps lands an even more
fanciful tale.” But, you will say, this is merely
the yellow press. Given points out that the
sedate press is compelled to join in the chorus
when the yellow journals shriek. “ The reporters
and city editors of the sedate publications must
make concessions unless they can present counter-
attractions, for the managing editors and
will not forever have their demands for explana-*
tions set aside by the words ‘ yellow fake.’ At
the end of the month they remember only that
they have had to call the city editor and those
under him to account many, many times. Because
of this the reporters of the sedate papers are under
constant temptation.” And it may be added that
the American reporter usually falls.
And the rewards are, after all, few and mean.
For no journalist can ever hope to save enough by
newspaper work to start a paper of his own in a
large city. The capital required is quite prohibi-
tive. In all the United States, Given estimates
that not more than three hundred editors receive
£lOOO a year or over. An experienced war cor-
respondent who has a reputation receives about
£2O a week and his expenses while at the front.
When he is at the back, he reports street accidents.
The inexperienced reporter starts at £3 a week,
and after twelve months he gets £4 a week. The
experienced reporter on a New York daily gets
from £5 to £7 a week. City editors’ salaries range
from £BOO to £l5OO a year, and editorial writers
average £lOOO, art critics £4OO, and dramatic
critics £6OO per annum. A good illustrator gets
£8 a week. So, to Australasian views, taking into
account the lower purchasing value of money in
the United States, the nerve-worry, the soulless
business methods, the swift and ever-present
liability to lose his job, the callous weeding-out of
the middle-aged men, it hardly seems worth
while.
The morals of the American reporter are as
expeditious as his methods. “Getting a man to
sav something which, there is reason to believe,
he might later wish to have left unsaid, a reporter’s
cue is to retire before the change of mind comes ;
but it does not do for him to make a dash for the
door, for this would not unlikely lead the object
of his questions to retract words or declare that
he does not wish to be quoted. Instead, the
reporter should change the subject, play the
admirer himself, and make his exit gracefully,
leaving the other man to wake up when he seeB
what he has said staring at him in print.”
Given tells many stories which incidentally shed
light upon American newspaper ethics. A news-
gatherer, sent to report a wedding, had his sus-
picions aroused by the anxious manner in which
the relatives of the wealthy bridegroom insisted
that the reporters should occupy front seats. He
slipped out and watched the doors, and found
they were guarded by a corps of private
detectives, who turned away a young woman who
tried to enter. “ Arpund the corner, the reporter
got her story, and, While it was scandal, it wa3
news of the kind his paper wanted, and he scored
a beat that caused much comment.” On another
occasion, a woman reporter was sent to spy upon a
woman who was under suspicion as the murderess
of a man. As it was discovered that the alleged
murderess intended to be present at the man’s
funeral, the reporter garbed herself as a mourner
and rode in the same carriage with the suspected
woman. Given does not say what use she made
of her interview. America seems a pleasant place
to live out of.
The newspaper “ story ” differs strikingly from
the short-story. A pure news story begins with
the climax, and works backward. It begins
always with the most important fact, and the
various incidents are then taken up in the order
of their importance. The inessentials come last.
“ A story constructed on this plan has two strong
points.. It can be cut off almost anywhere, if
space is at a premium ; and, appearing in the
paper, it does not hold the reader in suspense and
demand a complete reading.” A news “story”
must explain as it goes—ip case either it or its
reader doesn’t go very far. Style isn’t necessary.
“ On some papers there is a rule that no sentence
should be printed which occupies more than seven
lines of type.”
Given has unwittingly done the Australian
pressman good service in stating these disconcert-
ing facts.
♦
It appears that the Hairy Dysoxylon is missing.
In the latest issue (Yol. 8, Part 61 of The Forest
Flora of New South Wales, -T. H. Maiden asks for
more information about this rare tree, and hopes
that it will be rediscovered. Its lurking place is
likely to be about the Northern Rivers of N.S.W.
There is no reward offered, except the satisfac-
tion of running the Hairy Dysoxylon —alias
Dysoxvlon Becklerianum—to earth, and adding
to our knowledge of the flora of Australia. The
same part of a highly useful national work gives
much interesting information about the mulga.
It was so called from the mulga, or long, narrow
shield made by the aborigines out of acacia wood.
“It is a matter for regret that so valuable a
fodder plant should require to be cut for timber
at all. Mulga should never be cut down —it
should only be. pollarded or lopped. One reason
why the tree is becoming extinct is because the
seedlings are eaten out by stock. Mulga is likely to
become an important factor in the settlement of
the interior, as it forms good fodder for camels.
It appears to be the most universally distributed
fodder tree in the arid parts of Australia. In
former years mulgas have been destroyed by
thousands because the precaution to leave at least
one leading branch uncut was not observed. If
mulga is cut off at the stump it will not throw out
new growth. In this respect it differs from nearly
every other Western fodder-producing tree.” < A
commendable feature of this scientific description
of our forest flora is the large number of photo-
graphs of the trees in situ that are now supplied,
though photographs of branches and blossoms (in
addition to the lithographed drawings of leaves
and seeds) would add further to the interest of
the Australian who wishes to know his bush.
It seems about time to call kindly attention to
the Jujube Advertiser upon this page. What
relation Jujubes have to Book Worms isn’t very
clear; but the J ujube Advertiser pays in advance—
about a century in advance—and he evidently
doesn’t mean to be dislodged from his valuable
corner. However, the “Red Page’’ appeals to
him to get his weird map of our internal regions
re-drawn and brought up to date—or if
it’s a cabbage or a bunion or a bunyip,
we merely ask him to make it a little
more artistic cabbage or a bunion or a bunyip.
Merely planting it occasionally on end doesn’t
satisfy our artistic cravings. Sometimes —after a
good dinner—that diagram almost makes us want
a Jujube—which is probably the deep design of
the Jujube Advertiser. By the way, though this
advertisement hasn’t been asked for, the Jujubes
are very] good Jujubes. They might, conceivably,
do a Critic good, and Poets have been known to
thrive on them.
VERSES OF THE SLUMS
THE LODGING-HOUSE FIRE.
My birthday—yesterday,
Its hours were twenty-four ;
Four hours I lived lukewarm,
And killed a score.
I woke eight chimes and rose,
Came to our fire below,
Then sat four hours and watched
Its sullen glow.
Then out four hours I walked,
The lukewarm four I live,
And felt no other joy
Than air can give.
My mind did know no thought,
It knew my life too well:
’Twas hell before, behind,
And round me hell.
'Back to that fire again,
Ten hours I watch it now,
And take to bed dim eyes
And fever’s brow.
Ten hours I give to sleep,
More than my need I know ;
But I escape my mind
And that fire’s glow.
For listen : it is death
To watch .that fire’s glow ;
For, as it burns more red,
Men paler grow,
O better in foul room
That’s warm, make life away,
Than homeless out of doors,
Cold night and day. ...
I close my eyes and swear
It shall not wield its power ;
No use. I wake to find
A murdered hour. . . .
I count us thirty men.
Huddled from Winter’s blow, N
Helpless to move'away
From that fire’s glow. . , .
But all my day.is waste,
I live in lukewarm four
And make a red coke fire
Poison a score.
SATURDAY NIGHT IN THE SLUMS.
Why do I stare at faces, why,
Nor watch the happy children more ?
Since Age he hath a blackened eye,
And that grey hair is stained with gore.
For an old woman passed, and she
Would hide her face when I did stare;
But when she turns that lace from me,
There’s clotted blood in her grey hair.
Aye, here was hell last night to play.
The scream of children, murder cries;
When I came forth at early day,
I saw old Age with blackened eyes.
Why do I stare at people so,
Nor watch the little children more,
If one such brutal passions show,
And joy is all the other’s store 1
O for the shot in some fierce land,
A sword or dagger firmly held:
No brutal kick, no mauling hand,
No horrors of the partly killed.. .
I will give children my best hours,
And of their simple ways will sing:
Just as a bird heeds less old flowers.
And sings his best to buds in spring.
(From “The Soul's Destroyer ” and “ New
Poems,” by W. H. Davies.)


ace
The Latest Fashions for Fair Australians
BROUGHT WITHIN REACH OF EVERY PURSE THROUGH
. . . THE ECONOMISING INFLUENCE OF . . .
Anthony Ma'Ams* Low Prices.
IF yotx are interested in the problem of securing the
most for your money, and getting smart and fashion-
able dress-wear at a minimum cost, it will pay you
to send for our ILLUSTRATED FASHION PORT-
FOLIO, which will be POSTED FREE ON APPLICATION.
Re&dly-t© W ear
AND
A Perfect Pit.
m
No. 607/2 —Black Canvas Voile Skirt,
trimmed Silk Braid and Applique.
Length, 38 to 45in. Waist, 23
to 27in. ... ... ... 395.
No. 607 —Ladies’ Black Canvas Voile
Skirt, trimmed Chiffon Taffeta, Silk
Band and Applique. Length, 38 to
45in. Waist, 23 to 27in. ... ... 425.
No. 517—Maid’s Fancy Summer Tweed
Skirts, Light Grey and Green Shades.
Length ... ... 28 30 32 34 36in.
Waist, 22 to 25in. 8/- 8/3 8/6 8/9 9/-
No. 400—Maid’s Pleated Skirt, Black or
Navy Panama. Waist, 22 to 27in. —
Length 28 30 32 34 30in.
16/6 17/- 17/6 18/- 18/6
No. 700/4—Black Chiffon Taffeta Silk
Skirt, trimmed Silk Guipure, Applique
and Ribbon Velvet. Length, 39 to
45in. Waist, 23 to 27in. ... 955.
Other designs—s7s 6d, 68s, 84s, 105 s, 1265.
No. 1087 —Black or Cream Panama Voile
Skirt, trimmed Lace Insertion.
Length, 39 to 45in. Waist, 23
to 32in 22s 6d.
No. 700/1 —Black Canvas Voile Skirt,
trimmed Tucked Glace Silk-. Length,
39 to 45in. Waist, 23 to 27in. ... 35/6.
607
a
1087
700
00
vrejj
jj O RPE RNS ’
cfamoiiy
~£oiv
(Jttcej
Pretty
Silk
Frocks
aJt
Anthony
Horded
——
«F
£s*
3512
&
M
~V
' 1 1
a-#
•••-..
n
m
m
i
70
55/3
30*9
SEND FOR NEW SUMMER FASHION PORTFOLIO,
——~ POST FREE ON APPLICATION,
Frocks for
Young Australians
No. 361 C--Child’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Frock, trimmed Valen-
ciennes-
-20 22 24 26in.
24/- 25/6 27/- 28/6
No. 3512 —Child’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Frock, tucked and hem-
stitched—
-20 22 24 26in.
13/3 14/9 16/3 17/9
Similar style, semi-fitting at waist —
13/6 15/- 16/6 18/-
No. 3513—Girl’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Dress, tucked and trimmed
Malines Lace —
27 30 33 36in.
22/9 24/3 25/9 27/3
No. 3649 —Maid’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Blouse and Skirt Costume,
trimmed Malines Lace and
Insertion —
39 42 48
36/- 38/6 40/6
Similar Style 30/- 32/- 34/-
No. 3639—Child’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Frock—
-20 22 24 26in.
20/- 21/6 23/- 24/6
No. 3510 —Girl’s Ivory Japanese
Silk Dress, tucked and hem-
stitched —
27 30 33 36in.
18/6 20/- 21/6 23/-
No. 3641—Child’s Tussore Silk
F rock—
-20 22 24 26in.
16/9 18/3 19/9 21/-
Also semi-fitting at waist —
16/9 18/3 19/9 217-
No. 3644—Girl’s Tussore Silk Dress,
trimmed Malines Lace to match-
-27 30 ' 33 36in. '
24/- 25/6 .27/- 28/6
Similar style, without lace at foot —
' ' 20/- 21/6 23/- 24/6
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
HLatiCl.*
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDE ", TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
o weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
-Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their gram. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS-
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
18. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
, Is ; posted is 3d. Mr Neighbour
R4YMOND, Is; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptamkron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is, Love Under the Tiles, Is post is 3d.
Oajhlle, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
AjforRALiAN Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
builder, Is. 3d.; posted Is. 6d. Australian.
BOAHRanging, is. Canary-Keeping, is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. Bd. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, is; postl/3. Krbut-
zrr Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
PLEASE MENTION THIS
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Or. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
4
Gr
ME
FRE£ PRIZE —No Money Wanted
'to all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to ns with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PKN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Perclia
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
Invisible patches and repairing all kinds Of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all Who are awarded a Fountain fen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order thatour goods maybe appreciated,
5T e ffS" ire to c °M ect > from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same;. You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
Si., ent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothiugto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
masssmuA
It*
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and \re will send you, Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
great offer is only Open for a limited time,
Write at once.
THE QUTTA. PERCHA TRADING CO., 120 A»h St., Sydney
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt;
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTJON.-'Sm Capsule marked ENO’S * FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpered only b, J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, KNQ„
by J. O. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac.. everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETIXIO3VT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m/,
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
N© MONEY WANTED
) We have decided to give away &5000 in good and
) useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Picture Post Cards in Australia
| Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
i Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
' Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
> Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
> GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS to those who will distribute our
i Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you
i any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
, ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your friends or keep for
your own use, and at any time within one month after you receive the Cards selid 'us'
due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of eood
useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Payment Remember ! You
may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever
with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so A
Trial Solicited, simply send us your Order fct; One, Two, Three, 01 up to Ten Dozen', and
we will forward the Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents and we want to
show you What we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Presents we give awav
to our Agents. s y
fHE TRADE
SUPPLIED.
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W.
C-B
SX3SHOO
BaVMI-UOllVl
CB
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas,
DJ D
\v
m
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
F
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance holdssway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to :■
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Go.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, 76, York Street, SYDNEY.
«1. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
TWO LEADING BRANDS _
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER,
RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Guaranteed Life Preservers. Wholesome and Refreshing.
a r
'Mr
V
' IS
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
They Always Get The Game*
For Sale Everywhere.
ARTE#*
cmffEB’s
notfiriLE
InwEK
IPDOJLi.
Fob TORPID LIVER.
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorder*
tniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere ceutioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


“For over 60 years I have always kept
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral in the house. My
father often told me that it saved my life
when I was very young.”
In thousands
of homes Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
is a household
word.
It has
been
used
first
by the
grand-
4m
Ik
parents, then by the parents, and
now by the children. For colds
and coughs, croup, bronchitis, la
grippe, inflammation in the throat
or in the bronchial tubes,
>fyer’s
‘Gherrii 9eetcral
is the standard remedy the world
over. It contains no narcotic or
poison. Accept no substitute.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. 6. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
Rapid
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors; 443 Bourke St.; Melbourne.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
Stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subs'cription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney,
I cannot praise
SCOTTS
too highly”
*
%
The
Evidence
from
116 Bowman Street,
Pyrmont, N.S.W.
August \sth t 1906.
“ My two sons —George, aged
five, and Thomas, aged three —
suffered severely with chest and
throat trouble, and it was no
uncommon thing for me to be
up night after night attending
to them. At last I gave Scott’s
Emulsion and shall always be
glad I did so, for from the first
I noticed an improvement, and
now the change is simply mar-
vellous, for they are both the
picture of health. I cannot
praise Scott’s too highly.”
(Mrs.) M. Fletcher
The Reason WHY
they are Healthy
The splendid Norwegian cod
liver oil in Scott’s, helped by
the valuable hypophosphites of
lime and soda, quickly soothed
and healed the little chaps’ raw
tissues. That done,
Scott’s set to work
to build up solid,
sound flesh all over
the body—and suc-
ceeded, as Scott’s
always does.
But make sure it is
really Scott’s you
get—you can do so trade mark
by seeing “the fishman with
the fish” on every package.
SCOTTS
EMULSION
FROM ALL CHEMISTS & DEALERS
IN MEDICINES
IRISH
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT Waiw<.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE I STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elisabeth St., Melbourne.
8
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA]
▲
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
ttfade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
MANY LIVES
WORLD’S CURE
Coughs, Colds
Bronchitis, Asthma
and other
Lung Troubles.
Ovrbrldges
£ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established, 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
V The name
Plasmofi
distinguishes our
preparations of
mil K-albumen
from all other foods.
ONE POUND OF
Plasmon
CONTAINS THE
ENTIRE
NOURISHMENT OF
30 PINTS OF FRESH
MILK.
Most foods are deficient in
proteid. which Is required to
support life.
PLASMON
should be added to all
foods because it supplies
this element.
Foods mixed with
PLASjMON
are therefore more
nourishing than
any others.
OF ALL GROCERS
CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mother.
Last spring, when paddocks were scorched and
sere
Like a desert land, with hurried pace
He came to conquer the red Bush fire
That raged and spread round the stricken place.
’Twas deep in the heart of the Old Man Drought
When first I saw the stranger’s face.
But when the rains filled pond and tank,
“Good-bye ” he waved at the Sweetheart’s Gate
And rode, and the grey went galloping fast
Over the hills to his greener State.
In the twilight lone for a man and horse
Now I watch and watch and I wait and wait.
I know when wild birds build their nests
The weak must wait, though the strong may
stray;
And lovers are restless, they wander far ;
But they all come back some day, some day.
Oh ! He will come back, though others doubt:
“He loved,” they laugh, “and he rode away.”
’Tis Autumn now. The teeming earth
Yields fruit and flowers and yellow grain.
Ah, God ! And I, I too bear fruit,
But crushed, blood red, with a heart of pain.
“Love,” once he said, “ made all things grow
As innocent as the sun and rain.”
The season’s ripe, and many a tree
With heavy fruit the orchards claim.
Deep in my heart they’re ripening still,
His kisses of fire and his words of flame.
But baby, baby at my breast,
Your birth alone brings sin and shame,
vio.
LOUIS ESSON.
Returning.
Hey, for the land o’ the sun once more !
And hey, for the unfenced run once more I
For the western ways,
And the long, bright days,
And the crack of the hunter’s gun once more !
It’s back to the old life soon we’ll go ;
To the nights of the full round moon we’ll go ;
To the camp-fires red,
And the shearing-shed,
To the huts by the dark lagoon we’ll go.
It’s hey, for the woolpacks high again !
And it’s hey, for the purple sky again ;
For the creaking wains,
On the salt-bush plains,
And the granite hill-slopes dry again !
, A horse, and the rough bush tracks once more,
And a brush with the thin-shanked blacks once
more !
The rush and din
Of the yarding-in,
On the half-tamed brumbies’ backs once more !
A horse, and a dog, and a gun for me !
The stars, and the moon, and sun for me !
The ewes and lambs,
And the deep-voiced rams,
And the open plains of the run for me !
It’s a long road out by the West again,
Till we come to the brown hill-crest again—
With book and pack
We are making back—
Then hey, for the life that’s best again !
vio.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Midnight Train.
I awoke to a sound that seemed
To have died away in the rain.
I told myself I had dreamed,
And had turned to slumber again,
When an engine-whistle blew,
Faint as an infant’s cry,
And I waited, as sleepers do,
To hear the train rush by.
A moan as of wind in trees
Sullenly swathed the gloom
Merging by slow degrees
Into a hollow Boom !
As down the line she swept,
She sent a call through the dark ;
And the drowsing echoes leapt
To life and shouted “ Hark /”
Nearer she came a-roar,
Her headlight’s wicked glare
Lighting the road before
With hard, insistent stare.
Our little cottage rocked
In the cataclysmic roll
Of harsh sounds interlocked
In one discordant whole.
Clatter! and Clash 1 and Clang /
Rolling and thudding blows,
Steel on iron rang
Like meeting of galloping foes.
All the world seemed filled
By sound that silenced the rain—
Thunderous sounds that thrilled,
And, circling, crashed again.
A child awoke and sobbed,
In terror of the sound,
As the long train leaped and throbbed,
Shaking the solid ground.
Again the whistle blew,
Warning the world a-dream
The midnight train was due—
Goliath of steel and steam.
The tail-lights passed, and we heard
Tap-tap! on the distant rail;
Afar a lonely bird
Sent through the night a wail.
The weather outside was wild,
Heavy with wind and rain,
And the mother soothed her child,
“ It was only the midnight train.”
UAOBILAND.
WILL LAWSON.


Tradedlark!
Sydney Show Rooms
56 PttC Street,
Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
A cup-ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
Cadbury’s Cocoa is
not only PUREST and BEST,"
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to buy and use. A half tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
beverage it is possible to obtain.
New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
/5
9
2oz, Tins and
Plugs, from all
Tobacconists.
• Facsimile of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs
Scotch whisky m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
A
V
V*
V
ft
g-xrerm/zjafo/'
• JVEVER EAIIS.
HEAD OFFICE * MUTUAL LtFE BUILDING,MARTIN PLACE,SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Batter Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildino's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The
MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van JJrakkel),
Laches Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions.
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’
Homes visited.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses.
Oombing-s made up.
Telephone 2138.
X*
ROOFING
DAMPCOURSE
Ruberoid
E.RlCtt &■(?. ll? SYD/IEY 6 BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at bhe General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1447.
THURSDAY, NOVUM HER 7, 1907.
Pbice 6d.
THE LATEST GRIEVANCE.
Whilst concessions were being asked for it was a matter for regret that South Australia had seized the opportunity of imposing regulations against New
South Wales fruit of a distinctly harassing nature. If they showed more conciliation and feeling i n regard to New South Wales trade they would probably
receive more consideration from the people of this State.— N.S.W. Premier Wade in his Legislative Assembly, moaning because Australian States refuse to take
infected fruit from N.S.W. orchards.
AH WADE: “WHAFFOR? YOU WELLY BAD. DIDN’T I CALL YOU LIAR THIFF? YET YOU NO LIKE ME! NOW YOU
WON’T TAKE MY DIRTY FLUIT. OH, YOU WELLY BAD!”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907,
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 12,
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories,
grave and gay, by the foremost writers of the
Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black
and White work in Australia, and will picture
the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year,
is the standard epitome of the life of young
Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, IMP RETURNS will be
accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“A ustralia /or the A ustraliuns.”
Printed and Published bv William Maclkor, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to This Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
bxd to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sjteciul Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing xvith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
hoc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed Bat no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
'Jo A niateurs in I hide unit U hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Uolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — IF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A (rents’ Sjievial Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1907.
THIS BOOM AND THE OTHERS.
Last week, as Treasurer in the Wade
Thomas Waddell delivered the N. S. Wales
Budget speech—that Thomas Waddell who,
less than four years ago, was declared to be an
utterly hopeless and incompetent Treasurer, and
was thrown out of office by the very men who
have since called him back to his old office. Yet
probably neither Waddell, nor Wade, nor
Wade’s other Ministers have changed their
spots. Australian conditions have, however,
changed ; and that, and the game of party politics,
account for all the remarkable double-somer-
saulting. Waddell happened to be Treasurer at
a time when it was almost impossible for an
honest man to put a good face on things. He had
served through the droughty years of 1902 and
1903 ; he had come into the 1 remiership in
1904, which was even droughtier than 1903.
In those three years the average annual
value of the wool-clip of N. S. Wales
was £8,407,081. Agriculture had got clown to the
bed-rock of disaster ; and mining also languished
on account of a spell of low prices. The railways
were the true reflector, as usual, of the general
depression. In those three years, after the work-
ing expenses had been paid, the earnings of that
department fell £750,531 short of the total of the
interest bill; and Cohen, who knows nothing of
seasons, except to be keener in pursuit of the
interest when they are bad, required that the
shortage should be made up somehow. Except
by borrowing from a second Cohen to pay the
first Cohen, there was only one way to make up
the shortage—by taxing a people who, on account
of bad times, looked hard at every twopence
and grudged parting with it. After those
three years Carruthers arrived in the latter
part of 1904. Already a season of full and
plenty was practically assured ; and the_ country
realised the assurance, and a bonus into the
bargain. From an average of £8,407,081 for the
previous three years, the value of the wool clip
sprang to £12,344,444. The fat year was followed
by two that were fatter still. The N. S. Wales
railways, which in three years had called for a
subsidy of £750,531 out of the Treasury, restored
no less than £1,051,095 in the next three years ;
so that, as to this one item of railways, Waddell,
the man who sat at the Treasury in the lean years,
was £1,801,626 worse off than Carruthers, the
political fox who scented easily-got surpluses on
the turn of the seasons, sprang into the chair, and
took all the glory of the fat years as his booty,
and then sprang out again when the country
correspondent began to mention drought.
* * * »
Under the best of circumstances the party
system of government is a fool of a system,
which can only give the best possible
results by a miracle; and miracles are
much too unreliable for general purposes. But
in Australia it is a worse fool of a system than
usual, because Australia, depending so much on
“the great natural industries,” is above all others
the plaything of the seasons; and the seasons can
make or mar a Government when there is an
Opposition on hand prepared to turn a national
misfortune to its own advantage. Carruthers,
and Ashton, and Wade, who threw Waddell
out with such scorn and violence, knew perfectly
well that Waddell, if not a brilliant financier and
administrator, was at least a reasonably careful
one; they showed their true feelings in the matter
when, later on, having got into office, they were
quite prepared, in return for a poor few votes, to
Eut him back into the very place for which they
ad furiously declared he was a hopeless misfit.
Then, just as Waddell had been proclaimed
a failure because it didn’t rain much while
he was Treasurer, so Carruthers was after-
wards exalted as a magnificent success and a
Heaven-sent genius because it did rain, and be-
cause prices for wool and wheat and lead were
good, for reasons with which Carruthers had no
more to do than the most completely-dead
mummy in Egypt. On the mining fields it has
passed into a proverb that a good mine makes a
good manager ; and it is quite as true that a good
season can make a good reputation for a very poor
Australian State Treasurer. So the artful dodger
of politics who happens to be out of office is given
a magnificent chance. He can pile up a reputa-
tion while the fickle seasons smile, and when they
frown Australian Parliaments and people are
easily enough led to join him in heaving a brick
at the man who has failed at a time when success
was well-nigh impossible.
• * * *
The fact is that, under present Australian
conditions, very little notice ought to be
taken of one single year’s figures, at the
Treasury or anywhere else. The three great in-
dustries of Australia, so far, are the pastoral, the
agicultural, and mining; and allof them are subject
to extraordinary variations. The wheat yield of
N. S. Wales has roamed between a minimum of
1‘24 bushels, and a maximum of 17'51 bushels to
the acre. The State has pastured 61,831,416
sheep, and a few years later the flocks had been
reduced to 26,649,424—they had been 41,857,099
within the previous 12 months. The copper
market climbed up to £ll2 less than nine months
ago ;it has since been below £56. In 1904 lead
was down to £11; within this present year it has
been up to £22 ss. Every Cup time they tell us
that the Australians are a nation of gamblers. In
one respect, however, they are nothing of the sort.
The gambler—the professional gambler, anyhow
—doesn’t expect to win all the time. He
expects losses, and provides for them. What he
looks for is a balance on the right side. But—
outside “ sport,” at any rate—Australia doesn’t
“ make its book ”on that rule. When there is a
boom it won’t recognise that it is a boom and
nothing else. And when the other thing happens,
it is, as a consequence, pretty often unprepared
to see the gloom through.
# 4 1 #
Still, in this respect things might lately have
been a great deal worse. Australian banks, at
any rate, have not lost their heads, so far as can
be j udged at present, during the recent remark-
able seasons. The president of the Bankers’ In-
stitute said a true thing at its annual meeting,
the other day: “Had we enjoyed similar
good seasons a few years back, a spirit
of unhealthy speculation or booming would
have arisen in our midst.” The banker said
that we didn’t have the “unhealthy speeu-
tion” because of “the severe lessons we learnt
some 15 years ago.” That is part, at lea,st, of the
truth ; the other part probably is that, instead of
being able to get vast quantities of cheap money
from London, the Australian banks have been
able to place large amounts in London at
phenomenal interest. That put temptation out
of their way, even if they had been inclined to be
tempted. So even if Australia has had a boom,
its after effects won’t bear any comparison with
those of the boom of the early ’nineties. Our
foreign debt has been actually reduced, and that
is the vast difference between this boom and
every other boom that Australia has had for these
last 50 years. This time, anyhow, we shall have
no overnight drunken I O U coming home to mock
at our sorrow in the morning.
THE INDISPENSABLE IRON.
\y ILLIAM Sandford, Ltd., the Lithgow iron-
works people, appealed to the public a few weeks
agQ £ or more capital, and the appeal failed badly,
q u tbe j ssued prospectus nothing else seemed
pro bable. A r o statement of profit (or loss) was
p . but the public saw that the co. owed
£142,000 to the principal, who apparently owed
most of it to the bank and that the co. itself had
achieved an overdraft of more than £55,000.
Overdrafts don’t necessarily mean distress, of
verara \ ® invest ors had an uneasy feeling that
in this case the public was to get'in. and the
bank was to get out, and in the absence of
specific profit and loss statements, investors natu-
r&ly let” the piopositi™ pus. Failing «. S ««
money from the public, the State has now been
applied to for aid—“by way of an advance, to be
paid by instalments on the certificate of a Govern-
ment officer as plant is erected.”
* « * *
The case recalls the situation in which Maori-
land found itself in 1894, when the Bank of New
Zealand arrived at the Treasury and announced
that Government cash or guarantees to the extent
of £2,000,000 must be put up, or the bank would
close its doors. The State put up what was
wanted, and the results justified the action over
and over again. Not only was the bank saved,
but the State was saved too. Maoriland
was just then adopting a reformed policy, and it
set out on its new way unhampered by the
wreckage of a ruined bank. It nursed the concern
back to prosperity and vigor ; and to-day, under
slightly altered conditions, the State stands
owner of £500,000 worth of the stock in
one of the most profitable businesses in Austral-
asia. If the Bank of New Zealand was necessary
to Maoriland, an iron and steel industry is much
more necessary to Australia. The failure of the
bank might, it is true, have for the moment
caused keener sufferings; but the failure of
the effort to establish the iron and steel
business will almost inevitably have much more
lasting and wider and deeper consequences. Our
very national existence may depend on it. In
the last resort two things seem indispensable—
men and iron. It is hard, then, to conceive of a
price too great to pay for the firm establishment of
a business which will give us the iron.
* * * *
The failure of the Lithgow works—assuming
for the moment that it is a failure—may reason-
ably deter the private investor, but it should
have the very opposite effect on the State.
The first railways in Australia had just the
same experiences as the Sandford people
have had ; but that failure simply translated
itself into a demand that what the private
capitalist had not the strength to undertake, the
State should carry through; and the State did
carry it through. The path of the pioneer is not
often carpeted with roses. Rarely a man of large
means—the man of large means comes in later—
he spends his years and his money in marking out
the track. Presently it may cost only £lO,OOO to
provide an effective plant to do certain work ; but
it may easily cost the pioneer £lOO,OOO to find the
effective machine. For over 30 years William
Sandford and others have been finding out
things at Lithgow and thereabouts. It is
simply inconceivable that if these works fail,
others will not, sooner or later, be attempted
elsewhere in Australia. But these Lithgow works
have started and they ought to be kept
going. They at any rate are certain, and
all the rest are uncertain. And, above all, here
the experimental stage has passed. Were the
iron and steel industry at Lithgow allowed to
collapse, other works might materialise— and
after five, 10, 20 years might very possibly find
themselves in the same position as the Lithgow
works to-day. Australia is littered with smelting
works built by men who should have known their
business; but experience proved their calcula-
tions wrong. From Maryborough, in Queensland,
right round the coast to Fremantle, in Westralia,
there are crumbling furnace stacks. The State
cannot therefore afford to let the industry at
Lithgow perish on the assumption that somebody
else will build works elsewhere. All the pioneer-
ing has been done, and it has been far too costly
and it is far too valuable to waste.
* * * *
There is no reason, however, why the assist-
ance should be given by way of an advance. If
the State is going to put money into the business,
ic ought to have more control over it than
the mere holding of an IO U will give. Nor,
looking at the matter in the cold, commercial
way, is there any reason why, after the private
investor has refused to pull the co. out of the fire,
the State should risk its money without any
possibility of ever getting more than perhaps
3| per cent. If the State saves the undertaking
now, it will treat the present co far better than
the world of commerce would treat it if Sand-
FORD’s pound is allowed to carry the same power
in the concern as the State’s pound. The way of
the world would be for someone to build on the
old co.’s ashes ; but the State at any rate should
not treat the pioneer in that brutal fashion. Still,
from the public point of view it isn’t the
Sandford Co. that calls for anxiety; it is
Australia —the Australia that must have iron and
steel, and that looked like getting what it must
have, but now awakes to find the essential in-
dustry in peril. And the Stats of N. S. Wales—
blessed, happily, with a full Treasury at the
moment —has a chance of averting the peril, and
doing for Australia a service that will blot out
the unpleasant memories of many other things
that it has done lately in its relations with the
Commonwealth.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Fruit and Vegetable Shylock.
The Cow man is often a Tory and an individualist
in politics, but in his business affairs he knows
better than to practise his creed. Consider, his
position regarding the co-operative butter-fac-
tories. There are nearly 500 of them in N.S.W.
alone, to say nothing of the hundreds in Banana-
land and Bent’s country. In the early days of
the industry, Private Enterprise took up the
treatment of milk and cream, and mixed
up so much robbery with the business
as to practically force on co - operation.
The dairyman, finding co-operation a good thing,
carried it further, and lately co-operated in fight-
ing the Shipping Trust, and offered successful
threats to cease supplying the Sydney milk dis-
tributors if they did not pay him a share of the
increased selling price. In Queensland the saw-
millers put up the price of hoop pine for butter
boxes nearly 50 per cent., so the co-operative
factories decided to run a sawmill of their
own. In Victoria, a year ago, the fac-
tories found that the Cold Country middleman
was sucking with great energy, and a few decided
to send their own representative to London, and
in consequence they recently divided £BOOO which
they would not otherwise have seen. Why the
other farmers cannot do what the cow farmers
have done to rid themselves of their own special
ShyIOCKS is a mystery. The fruit and vegetable
growers especially need mutual aid. They are
robbed north, south, east, and west. It may
occasionally be their own fault, through careless
packing or neglect, that they are landed actually
in debt on their consignments, but it is not
so always. There is no check on Sussex-
street. Sussex-street just says so, and that
ends it. Last year one grower sent in 148 boxes
of tomatoes, which were supposed to have fetched
£l5 11s. ; but one single Shylock’s charges came
to £4 18s. lid. At one time the grower used to
buy boxes at 51sd. each, but he never got any re-
turns. Then he accepted the offer of Shylock to
hire them at 3d. a time. Now he always gets the
boxes back—the same lot 12 to 15 times during
the season. The saving in the charges under a
system of co-operation would pay the expenses
of a co-operative society many times over. But
the co-operative system would need to be strength-
ened by a compact amongst co-operating growers
not to consign elsewhere.
Bent’s Indeterminate Sentences Bill.
Premier Bent’s Indeterminate Sentences Bill,
just out, goes a shade further than anything in
that line yet legalised, in that it proposes to apply
the uncertain sentence to “ first-timers ” as well
as to habitual criminals. Culprits of both such
classes may be ordered to a “ reformatory prison ”
on the expiration of their set term of imprison-
ment, or without any such set term, by a Supreme
or County Court Judge, there to remain during
the Governor’s pleasure. The common honor-
arium is, fortunately, not trusted with this power,
but may order a convicted person to be sent
to a Judge to be dealt with under the
Act. This idea of empowering a Judge to sentence
where he didn’t hear the evidence is distinctly
quaint, not to say Bent. Prisoners may be trans-
ferred from gaol to reformatory before their set
sentences have expired if the Inspector-General
and the Indeterminate Sentences Board think it
desirable, but if such prisoners don’t behave them-
selves in the reformatory they may be sent back
to gaol for the rest of their terra, and the
time spent in the reformatory won’t be
counted—which ought to be a powerful in-
ducement to good conduct or a plausible imita-
tion thereof. Every prisoner in a reformatory
is to be kept at remunerative work, a
proportion of the pay going to the prisoner, a
proportion to his wife and family or any person
dependent on him, and a proportion to the State.
Prisoners may also be released on probation and
must then report themselves to the police once in
every three months during the term of probation.
Einally, an Indeterminate Sentences Board is to
be appointed to “make careful inquiry” as to
whether prisoners are sufficiently reformed to be
passed out of gaol and into a reformatory, and
afterwards whether they are fit to be released
on probation. Probation officers may be appointed
to visit, befriend, or assist, or try to find work
for probationers, and generally keep a fatherly
or motherly eye on them. It is a Bill that can t
leave things much worse, and may leave them a
good deal better than they are at present; but it
practically rests on two supports—(l) the consti-
tution, capacity and general behavior of the I.S.
Board and the probation officers, and (2) the
provision of enough remunerative employment
for “reformers.” When a prisoner is once made
to grasp the pounds, shillings and pence aspect of
remunerative work, and the advantage, to him, of
doing that work outside instead of inside a house
of detention, his “ reform ” won’t be long delayed.
But the plenteousness of work inside such places
pre-demands the plenteousness of it outside ; and
that is a matter that does not lie entirely with the
State authorities.
♦
Practical Patriots.
“ Breathes there a man with soul so dead,’ a
romantic poet has asked, “who never to himself
hath said, ‘This is my own, my native land?
Had he lived in these days in Australia he would
have recognised a large class with souls not only
dead but so far progressed in the unpleasant stages
of decay as to say, “Yes, this is my own, my
native land. But it’s a poor sort of place and
paltry. The things it can do are few and mean ;
the tilings it cannot do are so many as to cover
almost all the dignified processes of civibration.
Yes, if you must know, we are Australians; but
would prefer to keep that fact concealed.” Then
follow statements as to what Australians cannot
do. They cannot defend their own country, but
must pay tribute to others to do that for them.
They cannot build ships or make engines, manu-
facture textiles or furniture, or shoes, or machines.
They must import all their big officials. In o
only resources of the country are those primitive
industries which produce raw materials from the
soil, and primitive laborers. In view of the
“Leaders in Handcuffs.”
If a man would fain be leader in the Ultra-Labor
van
He must be a man of grit and wit and mettle;
He must feel the pulse of Demos right from
Beersheba to Dan ;
He must keep himself in everlasting fettle ;
He must win the shrill fanatic, who is shrieking
out “ The Cause,”
He must hold the Moderatist close beside him,
He must bear the sneers of Boodledom, the fury of
the claws
Of the plutocratic journals that deride him.
He must be endowed with wisdom, and he must
not want in tact;
He must always rule his crowd with gentle
humor ;
He should know the time for silence, he should
know the time to act,
And be deaf to bitter sneer and rabid rumor ;
In debate he should be eloquent and vigorous and
bold,
His brain should be as quiver to the bowmen,
His counsel to his party should be blessing
manifold
And a source of endless cursing to his foemen.
And whene’er the Ultra party gets a leader thus
endowed,
Does it follow where his skilful counsels lead
them?
Does it hail its brainy Gracchus with a greeting
high and proud,
And his warnings and his chidings—does it heed
them ?
Nay. Whene’er his men he marshals up in trucu-
lent array,
They show him that his leadership’s a fiction,
Bor he finds they’ve other leaders in the country
far away,
And he’s only— just a general —with restriction.
So with hobbles on his ankles and with fetters
on his wrist
He must cut his way to victory and glory ;
Must fight a bitter foeman who is mighty with
the fist,
And make his party proud to tell the story ;
He must plan a cunning campaign, and discover
to his cost
He has masters and not soldiers—when he needs
them ;
While the rank and file who hail him as the leader
of the host
Will do everything but follow where he leads
them.
Q.
POLITICOS.


existence in Australia, and especially in
Sydney, of these unpleasantly decayed souls,
there is a good deal of comfort to be
derived from such an assembly as that
which has just broken up—of the manufacturers
of Australia, the practical patriots of the Common-
wealth. They are the men who, whatever their
motives, or their methods, at least give the lie to
the slander that the Australian is a Gibeonite
among the peoples—a mere hewer of wood and
drawer of water. These manufacturers are
making the necessary things of civilisation—hats,
clothing, machinery, musical instruments,
pottery, furniture —with Australian labor in
Australian factories, and proving false some of
the lies of the anti-nationalist, and throwing
grave doubts on other of the lies, for if
it is alleged that the Australian can’t make a
piano and he does make one it is a fair
inference of the falseness of the charge that he
can’t make a rifle. As a matter of truth, the
Australian has shown (not so much in his own
country as in foreign lands) that for inventiveness,
resource, and mechanical skill he is abreast with
the highest of the older peoples. But he can only
fully prove liis capacity to constitute a nation by
making on his own soil, and with his own brains
and hands, all things necessary to fully-organised
existence. That is the ideal, and is yet to come.
Meanwhile the existing manufacturers, who bring
us a stage towards that ideal, are the pioneers in
practical patriotism.
Sydney’s Water Supply.
Just when a coastal drought holds out the possi-
bility of Sydney being put on very short commons
for water, another row between the Board of
Water Supply and Sewerage and the Government
is announced. The new subject of contention is
the Waterfall resumption. The Board wants the
land around Waterfall reserved to augment the
catchment area of the Sydney water supply. The
Government insists on devoting the area to
the use of a consumptives’ hospital, and
“for other schemes of water supply.” So far as
a lay mind can tell on a subject which
needs an expert engineer’s judgment, the Board
of Water Supply and Sewerage is usually in the
right in its controversies with the Government,
but is made the victim of the cantankerousness of
Public Works Department officials. There seems
to be an hereditary feud in that department
against the Board. Anything the Board proposes
is wrong because the Board proposes it, if for no
other reason. It is deplorable that this friction
should exist between two great public bodies,
more than deplorable when the matter of con-
troversy is such a vital thing as the water supply.
Already Sydney is suffering from a contaminated
supply because of the Government’s desire to
annoy the Board by keeping a lot of rotten vege-
table matter in the Cataract dam. Now, the
Board is to be further aggravated by the planting
of a consumptives’ hospital on a spot which it
wants for water collection. Doubtless it is a very
fine game for the Government, which, having the
power, can annoy and thwart the Board to an
almost unlimited extent. But it is poor fun for
the Sydney public, which sees its city threatened
with actual disaster, so that a few Jacks-in-office
can feed some ridiculous grudge or jealousy.
Little White Slaves.
Victoria has just discovered another unpleasant
feature about its cocky. That misguided State
hires out little orphans to the farmers for Is. per
week and their clothes, and the department in
charge of the children has been somewhat stag-
gered of late at the enormous increase in the
number of returns. Also, someone more observ-
ant than usual has noticed that the children are
usually returned in exactly the same clothes as
they wore when they were sent to the farmers,
even if they were sent a long time before. The
explanation is simple. The cocky is largely
what the rack-renting landlord has made him,
and the landlord s handiwork is very dreadful.
When the State child, who is usually an orphan,
arrives on the farm he is made to hand over his
clothes, which are folded away. Then he is
clothed in shirts and pants made out of
old flour bags, or some other valueless and
superannuated material. While on the farm,
long hours and bad food, often punctuated
with beatings and abuse, are the orphan’s lot.
And if, in spite of these things, he persists in
growing, the cocky keeps an anxious eye on his
progress, and calculates how long he will be able
to keep him before it will be necessary to supply
(b®w clothes for his very rare public appearances.
When it comes to the last chance of getting that
kid into, those clothes, he is bundled back to the
“home” as unsatisfactory, dull, untruthful, or
something of the sort; and another is sent along
in his place, to be also returned when he comes to
the same crisis as his predecessor. This boarding-
out system, which is really another name for child
slavery, is practised solely on account of its
economy, and in the belief that it eases
the burden on the State. If the State
would only take the trouble to investigate, it
would probably discover that what it saves on the
State child it loses over and over again on the
adult. These starved, ill-treated little waifs grow
up physically weak, and mentally feeble, and
with blurred ideas of right and wrong. Then the
State has to supply them with hospitals, gaols, and
occasionally with rope and free burial. It is
hardly worth while burdening the State with an
enormous outlay on hospitals, asylums for the
insane, and burials for the impecunious dead in
order to supply the cocky with cheap child labor.
Humanity does not seem to appeal to the Govern-
ment of Bent in this matter, but there is a cash
aspect of the case. Surely Bent will consider
the cash aspect of the case.
Agriculture and the Importing Disease.
The Herald is still suffering from the importing
craze. It quotes Railway Commissioner Johnson
as justification for the Government going abroad
to secure an officer to man the new Agricul-
tural Department. The cases are not parallel,
even were the importation of Johnson justified.
The railways are based upon a common-place
system, pretty complete, thanks to Oliver, so
that the staff could manage affairs if Johnson left
for a two years’ trip to Antarctica. In fact,
Johnson has been content to follow the
old plans and methods very closely. But
the Department of Agriculture is a vastly
different concern. Local knowledge is absolutely
necessary, and is the main qualification, provided
the man handling the ropes has the required
administrative capacity. A man from Europe or
America must be perfectly useless infilling the
post as it should be filled until he became
acquainted with the peculiarities of Australian
soils and climate. N. S. Wales, pastorally,
easily stands first in the world ; and in agriculture
she is well forward, considering the popula-
tion and the effects of the old Freetrade
tariff, which sterilised experiment and handcuffed
the secondary industries which would, if encour-
aged, have given the man on the land his chance to
embark on new ventures. As it is there are farms
in the State equal for equipment and progressive-
ness to any in the world. The owners have bred
wheats which are adaptable to the climate ; have
raised stock equal to the best herds for pro-
ductivity anywhere ; produced sheep which chal-
lenge comparison ; and made butter and cheese of
the highest quality—the best proof of talent and
adaptability. As regards the Department of
Agriculture there is room for reform, but no
necessity for importing any officials. The staff is
good enough, taking it all round, for it contains
officers of the best type. But red-tape, or some
other sort of manacle, cob-webs them at every turn.
During Carruthers’ time the Estimates, which
were never high, were cut down further and
further, until there was not enough voted
to keep the State farm hands going, and
many had to be dismissed. Director Camp-
bell may not be the best man procurable,
but he has never had a chance, for Carruthers,
who insisted upon telling Sammy Moore that he
was merely a cipher, used to consistently shelve
every scheme or plan that was hatched. Let the
Department under the new regime have a better
scope under its present head and see the results.
Already great progress has been made, and N. S.
Wales is not all in the state of despicable back-
wardness mentioned by some ; to accelerate the
rate of that progress wiser political administra-
tion alone seems to be needed. The farmers are
all right, the Department’s experts are all right.
The last thing needed is an imported head who
would have to learn the A B C of Australia
before he was worth anything.
♦
The Commonwealth’s New Protection.
The Victorian Employers’ Federation has written
to Victorian Premier Bent, stating that it is not
burning with the desire to serve two masters, and
that it wants to serve Bent alone. Its grievance
is that “ the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
sitting in connection with the Excise Act, is using
legal machinery to decide the minimum
wage in the agricultural-implement industry
irrespective of the Wages Board legislation
of the State.” This, it is contended, is “tan-
tamount to setting up two separate authorities,
and the Commonwealth Government taking
charge of the State’s industrial conditions.” The
grievance is plausible, but fictitious. The Com-
monwealth decides that, in return for payingdecent
wages, Australian manufacturers will be exempted
from the payment of certain Excise duties, and
to charge Excise duties and to remit Excise duties
are among the functions of the Commonwealth.
If the Victorian Employers’ Federation members
decide that they will not pay the wages considered
fair by the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
they need not. They are free to run their indus-
tries as they choose—but they cannot dodge the
Excise duty. Of course, the effect of that is to
give the Commonwealth, by a roundabout way,
control of the wage-rates paid. And that is bene-
ficial to the decent employer, as it guards him
against unfair competition from other States.
The manufacturer in N. S. Wales, where there is
an Arbitration Act, or Victoria, where there is
a Wages Boards system, used to suffer from the
disadvantage that he might be undercut by the
manufacturer in, say, Tasmania, where there is
no industrial legislation, and against whose pro-
duct he has no Protection such as he has against
cheap labor products from outside the Common-
wealth. The New Protection Excise system tends
to prevent that, and put all the States
on equal terms. The device is a clumsy
one, certainly : it would be far better
to put the whole question of industrial
legislation in the hands of the Commonwealth and
allow it to directly dictate fair-wage rates through-
out. But the States won’t agree to that so far.
The Commonwealth, therefore, does its best in a
roundabout way ; and no decent employer has any
call to grumble—rather otherwise.
+
The Health of the Kids.
President Roosevelt’s advice to this country
(that heroic and industrious orator is fond
of giving advice) was to “keep the cradles
full.” The next step is to see that they
are full, not of sickly kids, but of healthy
ones. A means to this would be the regu-
lar medical inspection of children at schools.
According to an enthusiastic letter, written by
Victorian Education-director Tate from the Inter-
national Congress on School Hygiene in London,
this duty of inspection, which awakens a shudder
in Australia, on the ground that it is “ Social-
istic,” is already undertaken by State or
local authorities in Austria, Sweden, Argentina,
Hungary, Norway, Switzerland, France, Germany,
and parts of the United States. (He might have
added Russia, Roumania, Servia, Chili, and even
Egypt.) By means of this system, the youngster
with tuberculosis may be noted, segregated, and
cured ; and all sorts of weaknesses may be dis-
covered and remedied. The supporters of school
medical inspection include all the leading educa-
tionalists and most of the leading medical men in
Europe. Little Tasmania (though it has not yet
got a full system of free education) has appointed a
Medical Inspector, and is at least pottering with
the subject. A Bill to provide for the inspection of
English schools is to be presented to Parliament.
Probably a logical corollary to the inspection is an
arrangement whereby, when parents are poor,
the State will provide some sort of medical
and hospital attendance for the sick boy or girl.
And the State will find it cheaper to cure the sick
person while he is young than to, support him
when he grows older.
♦
For Unity.
Of late years certain peaceable British and foreign
“ middle-class ” families have begun a system of
exchange whereby a British youth or maiden goes
to a Continental family and learns something of the
country in the home circle there ; while, in return,
the hope and pride of the Continental house
temporarily fills the place of the exported British
product. This sensible practice tends to remove the
idea from a certain number of British and foreign
minds that all the people of each and either coun-
try are hankering to get at the other fellow’s
throat and scratch for hlood. In Australia, and
especially in N. S. Wales, the daily press seems to
deliberately employ itself in work having exactly the
opposite effect. Under its baneful influence a clan
of youthful Victoriaphobes threatens to grow up in
N.S.W., suffering from a firm conviction that every
inhabitant of Bent’s country is a predatory and
malignant villain, and one whose only design in
life is to stamp out and reduce to utter ruin and
anarchy the amiable and suffering old Ma State.
According to The Bulletin’s way of thinking,
the fostering of such sentiments as the above
is not merely lamentable and foolish, but
dangerous. Australia doesn’t possess so many men
capable of handling guns that it can afford to
have large sections of its populace sooled at each
other like so many dogs. On the day when the
invasion comes it will be somewhat late for the
Sydney Telegraph and S.M.H. to explain
hurriedly that they never meant a thing by their
reference to Victorian “ treacheries ” and “out-
rages, and “ robberies,” and the like ; and that,
on the contrary, they would as soon have two or
three regiments of Victorians to aid in checking
the enemy s advance on Sydney as any other two or
three regiments of their acquaintance. But these
insane Jingo, importing rags won’t find out that
till ci foe is actually hammering at their officedoors.
In the meantime, whatever damage they can do
as daily papers in the way of strife-creation
between State and State they are diligently
doing. One method of counteracting the effect of
this constant stream of State Rights slander and
dissension-breeding would be the adoption by
those Australian-minded parents who could afford
it of the European plan aforementioned. The
N.S.W. youngster who had spent a year in Vic-
toria would almost certainly return to his town-
ship with a refreshing contempt for talk of wrongs
“destined to be wiped out in blood,’’and other
such balderdash—a contempt, moreover, likely to
be healthily contagious. It may seem a fantastic
proposition as between people of the same blood
and language ; and yet the Sydney Yellow press is
toiling its hardest to render something of the
sort very needful. Its theory that all virtue,
honesty, decency and such-like end at the
Murray, or (where there isn’t any Murray) at a
peg on the road between Delegate and Bruthen,
has created, in the minds of a few fools, a
more frenzied hatred against an adjacent State
with which N.S.W. has never had a shred of real
disagreement than exists to-day between France
and Germany with a thousand years of war to
look back upon ; and even a few such combustible
fools may be dangerous in a community.
It is a long while since a more cheerful report was
made by directors to shareholders than one
issued recently from the Jumbunna Coal Co.’s
office. It wasn’t meant to be cheerful, but it was.
The co.—a leading member of the Gippsland
(Vic.) group—complained that it had lately been
making no progress, because it couldn’t either
keep the miners it had or get new ones. When
they think it over, those directors may remember
something about curses coming home to roost.
In this case they themselves are the roost.
Five years ago they treated their employees
shamefully. To get even on a reduction from
13s. fid. to 11s. 3d. per ton paid for coal
by ,be Victorian railways, this and other
cos. ti ed to cut down the miners’ pay from
3s. 6d. to 2s. fid. per ton. When the men said that
the cut was too deep, and asked—finally begged—
the cos. to arbitrate, the directors’ reply was
to fill the mines with police-protected non-
unionists, who were housed in a stable and fed
like beasts. The Jumbunna Co. “broke” the
strike, but in the mind of almost every decent
mine-workman in Australia a black cross was put
against the name of the Gippsland colliery pro-
prietors. So long as labor was plentiful these
mines could get workers; but when fresh open-
ings offered they were promptly taken, and Jum-
bunna was left to its losses and its lamentations
at the very time when trade was brisk and
the chances of profit good. Other employers
with high-handed ideas may note the fact with
quite as much benefit to themselves as to their
workmen.
♦
The “pastoral” on Sabbath desecration, just
issued by the Rev. Alexander Stewart, Scotch-
byterian Moderator of Victoria and pastor of a
suburban tabernacle, is another illustration of the
folly of the cobbler who doesn’t stick to wax. In
pursuing the Sabbath desecrator, the Rev. Alex.,
who can no doubt split a theological hair with
unerring certainty, wanders off the beat he knows,
and discusses Cow and the way she should go.
Dairymen he urges to use all possible mechanical
means for lessening Sunday work, “such as home
separators.” Now the home separator, instead of
decreasing the Sunday work, actually increases it.
In those districts which send whole milk to the
factories and creameries, all that is necessary,
once the milking is over, is for someone to drive
to the factory. With a separator, the milk has to
be dealt with at once, and the engine and separa-
tor have to be kept going. The cream and skim
milk must be put into cans and taken care of;
and, when the separating is done, the separator has
to be taken to pieces and cleaned. There is easily
twice as much work on a home separating farm at
milking time as there is on an ordinary dairy.
So in the name of Sabbath observance, the subur-
ban Moderator really asks the dairy farmer to make
Sunday more of a working day than ever.
Secondly (this being by way of a sermon), butter
from home-separated cream is not of the highest
grade. The Victorian Government experts are
all agreed in advocating the taking of the whole
milk to the factory, instead of the cream. And,
thirdly, the home-separator plays into the hands
of the Melbourne agents, who buy cream, and
try to burst up the co-operative factories. Lastly,
dearly beloved brethren, Mr. Stewart’s pastoral
is a deplorable mistake, and his church should
see that in future no Moderator discusses Cow
until he has learned Cow.
♦
Professor Biles, who teaches Naval Architec-
ture at Glasgow University, will take away with
him one thing at least, a knowledge of the pro-
cesses by which the anti-Australian press cramps
and stifles the industrial development of the Com-
monwealth. He talked to the papers in Mel-
bourne on the subject he knows most about, with
special reference to the building of torpedo-boat
destroyers in Australia. He said—what Australia
was quite prepared to admit—that the Common-
wealth doesn’t know all there is to know about
the building of destroyers, and that if it wants to
get the best results it must not depend wholly
upon its own knowledge. Gn perfectly fair
and reasonable statement the antVAustralian news-
papers built the usual structure of misrepresenta-
tion and vilification of Australia. The Argus led
off withaheading—“Cannot be built in Australia.”
But the quoted authority said nothing of the kind.
To tell a man that he will never learn to swim
unless he bathes, is not the same as telling him
that he will never be able to swim. There are no
special circumstances about the matter. It is
simply the old, horribly familiar, degrading “We
can’t ” attitude, based on the one presumption
that Australia is a miserable worm or toad, and
must never try to be anything else but a worm or
toad.
+
Flour is “ up,” and bread is “ up,” and milk and
cheese are “ up,” and now in Sydney the sixpenny
hash-house has decided to be a sevenpennv temple
of indigestion. Of course the threatening drought
(which in some places has got past threatening) is
responsible : still, when anybody writes to the
Sydney News and says it’s all on account of “our
Melbourne rulers,” the News prints the rubbish,
and lets it soak in without a jeer. One such
correspondent, after the usual anti-tariff imbe-
cility, burst out the other evening—“ O for the
days when butter could be bought for fid. alb.,
bread two loaves for 3Jd., and good meat for Id.!”
Now, when did those days happen ? The “Official
Year Book of N. S. Wales,” just published,
prints “average retail prices of eight standard
commodities ” for each year since 1870. And that
official list shows that, in all the bright Freetrade
years from 1870 to 1892, bread never in any single
year averaged less than threepence, and often was
fourpence, whereas in the three years 1904-5-6 it
didn’t once average more than 2fd. ; and even in
these latter distressing days that move “Con-
stant Reader ” to his lamentations, bread can be
had for 3d.—which, as mentioned just now, was
the lowest average for all the glorious Freetrade
years between 1870 and 1892. As for fresh beef,
in the good old days of 30 years ago (1876) it
averaged s|d., and sugar averaged 4d. (it is 2|d.
now, since the Kanaka was sent back to his island
home, where we undertook all along to send him),
and butter averaged as much as Is. 7d. in 1874,
when Parkes was Premier. “Father of Four-
teen” and “ Constant Breather ” and other press
correspondents have got into the bad habit of
referring to the good old times in this vague way
—of exclaiming “O for the days when bread was
2d. a dozen ! ” and things of that sort—and it is
quite up to someone to ask them to put their
finger on the almanack and say exactly when
those days were.
■ ♦
“ Turtle ” drifts from worms on to a large sub
ject
The Jap invasion of the North is already something
considerable. In regard to pearling-, the whites are
merely living on the rents of boats, etc., giving divers all
pearls and £BO per ton for shell. Further, the beche-
de-mer industry is now practically controlled and run
by Japanese, who, not being allowed to own boats, evade
the law by employing white agents, who hold the
licenses. Yet there is good money to be made by white
men running- the boats themselves, and utilising New
Guinea men and our own aborigines. Some remarkable
catches have been made off Bowen and neighborhood,
and at present all Japs engaged in the industry are fish-
ing down there, taking the cash proceeds out of the
country and demoralising- the aborigines.
Further, adding to the danger of Australia, many Japs
are, from the nature of their employment, becoming
more thoroughly acquainted with the Queensland East
Coast than any of our Torres Straits pilots, knowing
passages and channels unsurveyed and uncharted. These
men are practical “pilots,” ready when emergency calls
them in the future. Writer witnessed, at night, in
narrow enclosed waters between dangerous reefs, some of
the lately-visiting Jap war boats manoeuvring into fornia-
Mons, just as though they were in open waters.
~he western entrances of Torres Straits are the key—cr
a key to this continent in the event of trouble. I
suggest the abandonment of the Fort at Thursday
Island, which at any time could be made unten-
able by the later type of battleship shelling from
behind the numerous islands around there, where the
h ort s guns would be blind. Substitute, instead,
a torpedo mine station, modern in every particular,
keeping m touch with improvements, and having- torpedo
boats and destroyers to work with it. Further, in refer-
ence to the passages available for heavy-draught war-
ships coming from the west, and entering Torres Straits,
passing south : First there are the Endeavor Straits,
with many small channels, which, if mined, would prove
death traps to any men-of-war. This channel is impos-
sible save to men with local knowledge. Jap fishermen
possess such knowledge. Then there are channels
through hammond, Friday, Goode, and Thursday
on? are impossible to vessels drawing over
-.oft. This leaves only four other practicable channels to
heavy-draught vessels, viz., Prince of Wales’ Channel,
Dayman Channel, Simpson Channel, and Yule Channel,
averaging one mile and a half at their narrowest,
lhese could be made practically impregnable, if
properly mined. Finally, there are two dangerous
channels (Japs know them thoroughly) between Hawkes-
bury and Banks Island ; and Napoleon Channel, danger-
ous and usually impracticable, but possible, though it
narrows to less than a quarter of a mile in places. So it
narrows defence to about six channels, impreg-
nable if properly mined. This would force any possible
enemy to the eastward of New Guinea, again in narrow
and dangerous waters, where a possible naval holocaust
could be brought about, granting Australia had a decent
navy. Outside of these routes, possible invaders would
have to circle within the Eastern Polynesian groups, or
go west via the Indian Ocean and Cape Leuwin. But the
natural gateway to the Eastern Coast is via Torres
Straits; and that can be made impassable if we like.
Instead of making it impassable, we are permitting the
people who look most like our natural enemies to learn
far more about it than we know ourselves.
4
From N.S.W: Treasurer Waddell’s financial
statement :
So far as I can estimate, the value of these (transferred)
properties will be about £4,000,000. At the present time,
by mutual arrangement, an officer of the Federal Govern-
ment and two State officers are engaged in valuing these
properties. lam hopeful that before long we shall receive
payment for them. It must be recognised that the Federal
Government has been paying us a larger amount of the
Customs and Excise duties that it was bound to. If it
had paid for those properties before it would have
deducted the interest on the capital value from the sums
to be returned to us, and we would have got less.
Thus does the truth arrive. Before the elec-
tions, when Carruthers was floating hack to
office on a flood of lies against the Federal
Government, he almost wept with wrath as he
explained the villainy of the Commonwealth
Government with regard to those properties.
Now Carruthers’ colleague and successor at the
Treasury officially tells the truth of the matter :
(1) The Commonwealth hasn’t settled up for the trans-
ferred properties because it can’t till it knows their value.
(2) Carruthers’ successor and ex-colleague doesn’t
know their value ; Carruthers’ doesn’t know (seemingly
he didn’t try to find out) ; no one knows, but the Com-
monwealth Government is working its hardest to find
out and settle up.
(3) Anyhow, N.S.W. was getting extra revenue by hav-
ing the matter unsettled, so N.S.W. was all right.
♦
Cyril Blacket on the timber trade and the
tariff :
Messrs. Ketiiel, Fehon and Freeman (N.S.W. Forestry
Commission) have reported that, as the supply of local
seasoned hardwood is frequently not equal to the demand,
the duty on foreign timber in its dressed state should
be taken off, and an export duty put on local timber.
This advice is the natural result of the Foreign-trade line
of thought.
At present the Sydney builder pays 14s. per 100 ft. for
what is known as “seasoned” hardwood—the word
“ seasoned ” being very often only a figure of speech. The
Sydney saw-miller, who buys this in its log state, pays 7s.
per 100 ft., delivered at his Sydney mill, whilst the selector
who originally sold the tree gets from 6d. to Is. per 100 ft.
as it stood. The present market price of Oregon is 15s.
per 100 ft. As Oregon pine comes many thousands of
miles over the ocean, and, before that, is probably floated
down a river from the place where it grew to
the shipping port, it naturally follows that it is more
or less seasoned, and therefore is put on the
market in a marketable state. Local hardwood, on the
other hand, is rarely seasoned, as the miller and the
carpenter find it easier to work when green, so that the
two classes of timber do not meet on equal terms. Yet,
as tests prove that, for joists, rafters, etc., local hardwood
of 25 per cent, smaller section is as strong as Oregon, it
is evident, at present prices, that seasoned hardwood
costing 10s. 6d. will go as far as Oregon costing 155.,
whilst for durability under exposed and trying conditions
Oregon is scarcely worthy, by comparison, of serious con-
sideration.
Whatever the future may bring about, there is not at
present any scarcity of supply, as on the N.S.W. South
Coast, which is the district best known to me, we have
undisturbed forests.
But the selector-owner of the tree gets so small a price
for his timber that it does not pay'him to sell it, and the
bulk of the present supply comes from Crown Lands ; and,
certainly, seasoned hardwood is a scarce commodity.
Had there been during all these years a stiff import
duty on foreign timbers, our local industry would be in a
healthy state, instead of which the original seller is
starved out, and the necessary preparation for market
by seasoning has become an unknown thing.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. "We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
PRACTICAL TEST OF THE "RYEE AUTOMATIC
RABBIT DESTROYER MADE ON MR. CHARLES
HARVEY’S FARM, CROOKWELL.
Crookwell, 4th November, 1907.
To the Manager, Tyree Limited,
314 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I have much pleasure in informing you that
the trial of your famous RABBIT DESTROYER took
place on Friday, November Ist. In all, three tests were
made, two in my paddock and one in Mr. J. Keith’s, and a
large number of rabbits were killed in each test. In No;
1 test, a marked rabbit was placed in the burrow, and on
opening the burrow, it was not found on Friday, as the
whole of the warren was not opened; but on Saturday
morning, when Mr. Desmond and myself visited the farm,
we could not find any trace of one rabbit having
left the warren, and on opening a small pocket a short
distance from the main burrow we found the marked
rabbit, together with fifteen others, quite dead. I am
very well pleased with the result of this trial, and have
no hesitation in stating that the Tit REE RABBIT
DESTROYER is the best means of destroying the pest.
My opinion is, that if the burrows are not interfered with,
not one can escape the deadly poison, and, as they remain
in the burrow, no nuisance is caused, and no other animal
or bird is affected by the poison. I can confidently re-
commend this machine to all those desirous of wholesale
destruction of this pest.—Yours faithfully (Signed)
Charles Harvey.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ A Life’s Revenge.”
Theatre Royal.. “ Brewster’s Millions.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Blue Moon.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s German Opera Co.
Her Majesty’s. “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Bijou “The Tyrant.”
Olympia Wirth Bros.’ Circus.
Athenasum Hall “ Robbery Under’ Arms Bio.
Town Hall Clara Butt Co. (Thursday).
—— ♦
Some hundred or so of English play wrights
have been petitioning Edward R. to cut off the
head of his old pal, the Lord Chamberlain, so far
as the old pal uses it to censor plays. But what
playwrights really need is the abolition of news-
papers, the execution of editors, and the suppres-
sion of popular education. For these things have
made life very hard for the poor playwright. The
public is taught too much ; and familiarity breeds
contempt. So the playwrights have to wipe out
of their universe all the times and places that the
papers talk about, and get back to the vague past
which they can paint in gold and purple, or
to! the distance that lends enchantment to the
view. Julius Knight turns his clock back to
Beaucaire and Robin Hood; Andrew Mack is
Tom Moore; Tittell Brune is Kundry, or some-
thing in the days of Bess; while Waldron,
seeking safety in miles instead of years, hunts up
a squaw in the legendary “West”; Australia’s
Bilanderson explores our own bushranging myths
for his little bit of thrill; and the musical-comedy
writers stick tight to “the East” as the best peg
to hang their trifles on. Whatever Columbus it
was that first discovered how good “the East”
is for this last purpose made a notable find. For
the fabled “ wealth of Ormuz and of Ind ” —the
spicy breezes, and the coral strand, and all the
rest of it that everybody knows who hasn’t been
there —furnishes a reasonable excuse for the gor-
geousness of the frills that must hang about every
musical-comedy performance ; and what couldn’t
be swallowed even with a ton of salt if it were
supposed to happen under a gum or an oak is all
right if there is a property palm in the back-
ground. So “ the East ” has these last few years
been ploughed and harrowed and reaped of a new
crop —Persia, and India, and Ceylon, and Japan,
and now Burmah, the home of “The Blue Moon.”
But what is going to happen soon, Heaven only
knows, for Cochin China is about the only terri-
tory that isn’t now annexed.
* * * •
But' whether it is Persia, or India, or
Ceylon, or Burmah, it is very much the same—
the same English Johnny officers, the same coffee-
colored potentates, the same canoodlings. “The
Blue Moon ” certainly resists the temptation, fatal
to most others of the species, to forget all about
the plot as the show bustles towards its end. It
is quite prepared to mislay the plot as it goes
along, but in the last five minutes it dashes back,
and picks it up, and explains that little Blue
Moon, the strolling Burmah singing-girl, really
isn’t Chandra Nil, but the stolen daughter of Lady
Brabasham; and Pat Bathurst, who is the principal
potentate, offers the lady her choice between him-
self and one of the English soldier Johnnies, and
she chooses the English soldier Johnny; and
that’s the story, except that a gentleman whose
father sold whelks in Whitechapel turns himself
into a Burmese juggler without sufficient excuse,
and, as a sort of godfather to the Blue Moon,
supplies the George Lauri part of the entertain-
ment. Unfortunately when the show opened at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney), on Saturday night, Victor
Gouriet, the man imported for the George Lauri
part, was still nursing an injured ankle, and
Edward Nable wrestled with the fat part. It
was a bit too large for him. But the part is
whimsical, and was quite well enough played to
make it popular. It also owns one of the three or
four catchy musical-bits—“Oh, be careful of the
Crocodile,” the first of “ The Blue Moon ” ditties
that the small boy will whistle as he hangs on the
tram step. The soubrette’s success, “ She Didn’t
Know,” isn’t as good for whistling purposes ; but
five thousand prodigies in pinnies are already
struggling with it.
* * * *
Maorilander Miss Amy Murphy, who is
Chandra Nil (which, being interpreted, is Blue
Moon), is no actress yet, but her voice is her
fortune, and it runs into five figures—a
light, pure soprano fortune, and the owner
handles it with brains. There is nothing more
artistic in all the show than the soprano’s duet
with Reginald Kenneth, the new baritone —who,
too, is no actor, and wasn’t helped by his undress
uniform to cut a gainlv figure. In the way of acting,
the ex-Adelaide boy, Harold Parks, came as the
grand surprise. He had to get his effects by solid
work—he had no picturesque costume-part to
help him—and he got them quietly and most
effectively. Myles Clifton, the Majah, furnished
a good crisp character study, and joined Kenneth
and a rapidly-improved J. R. Hogue in the popu-
lar “ Majah and Minah ” trio. The work of the
chorus is brisk, but this part of the co. has no
very striking work to do. The scenic artists
(W. R. Coleman and John Gordon) have much
larger opportuities, and they deserved the calls
they didn’t answer.
«* # *
Brewster continues the struggle to dissi-
pate thousands in order to acquire millions at the
Theatre Royal; and the quaintness of the idea
that there can be any difficulty in unloading one’s
wealth hits Sydney hard. It can’t understand
Brewster’s difficulty itself ; but, then, Brewster
evidently didn’t live in a place where the Sunday
papers give mining tips.
* * -;!f -*•
When he found the Whiteleys in Europe,
prospector Rickards discovered a mine that will
go 3oz. to the ton, with something over in the
tailings—the tailings being the people who
couldn’t get into the Tivoli on Saturday, and will
have to come up for re-treatment later on. These
Whiteleys— four of them—juggle with themselves,
sometimes on the stage, sometimes on the slack
wire; and the lady of the co. is so nimble and
dainty that she could probably turn somersaults
on a cobweb if she tried. Another newcomer is
Henri Alexander, who earns his living standing
on his shoulders and cutting antics with his feet.
The two turns take the present Tivoli bill right
up into the front row.
** * *
“J.A.C.”: The “ early-door ” extortion
received a severe set-back at the Criterion on
Saturday last. The whole of the area, with the
exception of three seats at the back, was turned
into what they term orchestral stalls. These
three rows were speedily filled, but the “ early-
door” charge still urged on its wild career, and
the greater part of those who paid the extra
money had to content themselves with standing
incommodation. Now, the alleged reason for the
existence of the “early-door” is that people, by
paying a little more for their tickets, may secure
a seat. The “early-door” is rather a trick, any-
way ; but it is a malpractice when door curtains
are kept closely drawn that people may not see
what they are being deluded into. (I do not
blame Mr; Anderson any more than other man-
agers—they are pretty well all tarred with
the same brush.) Those who had paid the
“early-doOr” assessment, for the “privilege” of
standing, did not like it ; they grumbled,
but they bore it meekly until the advent of a
sturdy old lady. When she found she could not
get a seat, she demanded her money back. Oh,
dear, no ! they could not do that! She said she
could not, and would not, stand throughout the
performance. Well, she could pay another
shilling and go into the stalls. “Oh, no!” she
said; “ I’ll show you another way of arranging
matters.” And she walked up to the barricade,
assaulted it, razed it to the ground, and took her
seat in front, where there was plenty of room.
She was immediately followed by all the other
standing members of the audience, and the entire
staff of the front of the house, including the pea-
nut boys, could not shift them, for they had the
sympathy of the house with them. I honor that
plucky old lady. By the way, is there not some
vague police ordinance regarding people standing
in passages of theatres '!
(From THE BULLETIN 15/2/’05.)
LINDSAY’S GREAT PICTURE just acquired by the Victorian National Gallery.
“POLLICE VERSO"—a black-and-white by Norman Lindsay, exhibited by the Sydney Art Society, which set
many tongues clacking and pens scratching in Australia. Hailed enthusiastically as a masterpiece of
black-and-white work by some critics, it was condemned with even greater fervor by others as “immoral”
and “blasphemous.” The Bulletin has printed much of this controversy. Now, at the suggestion of
readers who had not a chance of seeing the original, it prints a reproduction of the picture. Justification
for the praise it won will be found promptly. Reason for the blame may seem, too, at first apparent. But
the work calls for explanation rather than apology. There is ho intention to represent the Crucifixion. The
crucified figure is the symbol of Asceticism; the rout of revellers of Epicureanism. A crucifixion might have
been used as a symbol by a Pagan painter long before the Christian era, and may be used to-day without
raising the question whether, in the honest expression of opinion, an artist is entitled to use a picture as
Gibbon did a solemn sneer, Heine an epigram, and Huxley a scientific argument. That question is not
raised by this picture, and need;not be argued. But—a point which the uneasy moralists have overlooked —
the picture presents the challenge of Pleasure to Asceticism, but not necessarily Pleasure’s victory. The
joy of life is set in bright light (such bright light—truly wonderful in technique!) against the pangs of
death. Yet, for all that is said by the work to the contrary, the palm may be with that stubborn figure in
the gloom.
Miss Eugenie Duggan ceases to be a
Female Swindler after to-morrow (Friday) night,
and resumes her old role of honest woman. For
on Saturday “ A Life’s Revenge ” will be staged
at Sydney Criterion, and in that well-known
drama Miss Duggan is her persecuted, stainless
self again.
*
A Lady Godiva act is billed for next Wed-
nesday at Wonderland City. The Godiva craze
first broke out in Coventry (Eng.) years and
years ago. Since then it has raged with
intermittent fury, ever growing more and
more innocuous as the centuries sped. The
original Godiva did her horsebacking in so
marked a state of evening dress that—even in that
gay old epoch—the solitary man who gazed upon
her was reckoned a shameful fellow. But the
Wonderland City people plight their troths that
the Godiva they propose presenting won’t bring
the blush of shame to the cheek of a Wesleyan
cleric—and yet she will allure immensely.
** * *
Unless there is an astounding amount of
money to be squandered on shows in Melbourne
this spring, there should be many singed fingers in
the theatrical and allied professions. Just now
every second establishment seems to hold a show
of some kind. Shops have been converted into
picture entertainments of one sort or another ;
all the theatres are in full blast; so are all
the halls. The Women’s Work Exhibition is
in need of a great crowd nightly to make ends
meet. Prince’s Court is whooping for pat-
ronage ; so is Wirths’ Olympia. The Waxworks
hangs its banners on the outer wall, and Cole’s
Hippodrome wants patrons. Clara Butt rolls on
like the mighty deep at the Town Hall ; the
Athenaeum has a topical cinematograph; a Maori
co. is open to business; the Cyclorama runs fights
and varieties; St. Kilda and South Melbourne
Sands, sport, living pictures, concerts, Pierrots,
Figure Eights, and skating rinks ; the Y.R.C. is
running some kind of a side show out at Fleming-
ton ; and Tom Bent is always in action. In short,
visitors to Melbourne are afforded every oppor-
tunity of being tired to death.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the reign of Meynell
and Gunn started on Saturday with “ The Mid-
night Wedding,” a drama that struck the local
public in its breathing apparatus for the first time.
Up to then there had been a horrible suspicion
that this “Wedding” was a first cousin in art to
the “Fatal” ceremony of yore, and would be
equally open to reproof. Therefore the local
public, in its more intelligent section, was glad to
find that the Wedding, which happens at mid-
night in the cell of an up-to-date Friar
Lawrence, is only one startling incident in a story
of recklessly intense dramatic interest. The
author of this wily production has borrowed some
of the best situations of bygone drama, and when
he couldn’t put his hand on exactly what he
wanted, he probably invented the neces-
sary thrill. There is a fastness and furious-
ness about the incidents. Powerful effects
are led up to in a violent hurry, and
the people in the leading parts get no time for
tiresome lingering over their many pieces of
“fat.” Nothing quite so slick in sensational
melodrama has been previously staged in Mel-
bourne. Moreover, the atmosphere of the action
is new, and the author can be unhesitatingly
credited with the discovery of a new country
where the military system is as full of derange-
ment as a gourmand’s liver.
* * * *
Played by Harcourt Beatty, Gaston Mer-
vale, Miss Congdon, and a new leading lady, the
principal parts go for all they are worth. Miss
Madge Mclntosh, making her first appear-
ance in Melbourne, had the audience with her
from the outset, when she married a strange
gentleman at a moment’s notice to save
herself from the marital attentions of
another man who wanted to marry her for her
own sweet sake, but was vaguely understood to be
villainous. The heroine’s objection to the other
man is based on the purest melodrama principles.
Apart from his sinister smile, he seems a
desirable adorer, and although he presently
obtrudes himself into the lady’s bedroom with
a view to compromising her into lawful matri-
mony, his tactics merely go to show the
sincerity of his suit. All is fair in love and war
except for an alleged villain of the piece. This by
the way. Miss Mclntosh held the audience in all
her scenes, and every time Harcourt Beatty
held Miss M. the audience felt doubly embraced.
Beatty’s part puts even the heroism of Julius
Knight into the shade. His charms are deadly with
the wonienkind, and his sword lays every rival
low. Gaston Mervale closes a career of pic-
turesque usefulness by falling before the hero’s
fatal thrust. And there is the comic relief pro-
vided by Cannan and two other members of the
local army, who jointly and individually pursue
an attractive Kathie, a monotonous proceeding,
which is not too long-drawn out to delight the
gallery. Judging from the applause on Saturday,
“ The Midnight Wedding ” will carry its comic
relief for some weeks.
* *- *
Wirfchs’ Olympia, which offers seating
accommodation for 5000 worshippers of the
Almighty Animal, is just now providing a Cup
Week programme of suitable horsiness. The
trained gees and the bounding jockey actors are
supported as before by the gentleman who dances
on a rope, and the Herberts, who fly through
space. Also the Lion is lying down with the
Goat as usual. The programme, in a Biblical
manner, asserts that the king of beasts is lying
down with the lamb, but if the sheep’s offspring
was visible in the first instance, it is now safely
concealed in the lion’s interior.
*• * *
At the Opera House a first part of normal
quality, and a second part of exceeding magnitude
are presented to overflowing crowds of punters,
to whom the name of Rickards is a lode-
stone at all times, but particularly when they
have suffered a bad day at the races, and want to
forget their sorrow. It is at such times that the
misguided punter seeks his only consolation in a
comic song.
At the Bijou a wise management is
running “ Rogues of the Turf ” for a second week,
the moral of that amazing melodrama being like
unto the seed which fell on stony ground, and
made no difference.
** * *
The Princess’s has its German and Grand
Opera back again, apparently quite a smooth,
sanely-working company. Melbourne had ex-
pected a shattered remnant of a company-
ragged tatters, and chasms, and gaps. It finds
the original bevy of members in toto (with the
exception of Herr Greder and Fraulein
Waller, who beam peaceably from “in front,”
and show signs of agreeably re-joining),
“Lohengrin” was staged for Saturday night,
and there was merely one change in the adver-
tised cast. Fraulein Sara Anderson found the
rough Loongana trip upsetting, so little Mia
Barcow played her Elsa. She looked the part
very sweetly, and was in excellent voice ; she only
sang flat once or twice. That little woman wants
a Svengali to keep her voice on the track ; then she
would make something of a grand opera artiste.
Tenor Studemund, who was the Man of
the Chook, suffers from the same painful fail-
ing—his voice rang gloriously at times through
the big performance, but there was always a dread
uncertainty about the trueness of top notes and
other passages. The clarion-voiced Rupp made
the most of his Herald-ship. There is no doubt
that “Lohengrin” is the opera of Riinger and
Fraulein Heinze—they sing magnificently to-
gether, and Heinze did brilliant work in his
second act. Mohwinkel’s fine voice strikes one
with increased emphasis after his absence, and
his Henry the Fowler is a noted performance at
anytime. There was rather an erratic first-night,
not-rehearsed-enough feeling about the chorus
and orchestra, but nothing more than a getting-
in-stride. On Thursday night “Carmen” will be
staged, followed by “Tannhauser” on Friday and
“ The Flying Dutchman ” on Saturday.
* sc-
Bland Holt, who leaves for Europe shortly,
had a gorgeous send-off at the Theatre Royal on
the last night of the last show he will stage here
for some time. Bland was cheered madly by a'
crowded house; when he appeared, flowers,
wreaths, and laurel crowns were handed up ; then
the co. massed together and sang “ Auld Lang
Syne.” The limit was reached when Bland stepped
forward and returned thanks in home-hewn verse.
It was great. Strong programme distributors
broke down, and the very ushers (and a more
impersonal profession than that of ushering does
not exist) found it hard to control their emotions.
Seriously, Bland Holt was a good sort, a barracker
for Australia, a generous employer, a fine worker
in his calling. He will be much missed.
* * *
Clara Butt and Kennerley Rumford and
their company have rushed to Melbourne to dump
their modest little Australian earnings on the
Cup. A fall-back-upon concert is arranged for
Thursday (in case of a shortage). That D a certain
success, sure.
** * *
“ Robbery Under Arms ” showed its
lengthy biographical film at the Athenaeum on
Saturday night, for the first time. It’s a bully set ,
of pictures, and they run smoothly without
flicker. One fails to see how Captain Starlight
and his gang manage to get away with the victims
of their depredations, If the loot were all in horses
there might be some hope l —but the cattle they
bang is heart-stirring; 999 shots are fired during
the performance (counted them, of course), and
they are intended to hit the bull’s-eye of the
public for many a night to come.
*& * *
The Glideaway opened its rollicking
rolling Rink at St. Kilda this week, and a great
crowd bumped their noses —and other parts —on
its granolithic surface without much damage to
either it or them. The glissando movement of
the Glideaway would strew envy in the heart of
any violinist of these parts. The open-air Glide-
away rink promises to be a success.
** * *
Derby night gave the “Girls of Gotten -
berg” and the one girl of Rottenberg a great time
at Her Majesty’s. It was a record house, even for
a “ Gottenberg ” house, and the military swing of
the song and dance made wilder swirls than ever.
“The Girls” will continue their ballets and
marches and walks to “ Berlin on the Spree ” for
an indefinite and lively time.
** * *
Julius Knight has had a good week at
Adelaide Royal in “Raffles,” after an absence of
some two years. The feminine interest written
into the play is not very strong (it was entirely
absent in the book), so the absence of Miss Beat-
rice Irwin from the cast has not mattered much.
Miss Elbertorton (her name is now officially
printed all in one piece, without even a hyphen)
has better chances in “Robin Hood,” the rather
trivial prettiness of which has just replaced the
modernity of the Cracksman. Hubert Willis is a
new-comer, who has become popular at once, and
Plimmer and Leslie Victor are always reliable.
The “Besses” have come back for some abso-
lutely last concerts. The Tivoli and Hippodrome
stand where they did, and a new and illusive
moving-picture show has opened all on its own;
it sets its patrons down in a railway-carriage, and
bids them imagine they are “doing ” Switzerland,
or Kamschatka, or other ’popular resorts.
At the annual Shorthand Geld Medal
Competition of the N.S.W. District of the
Teachers’ Section of the Incorporated Phono-
graphic Society, the only pass was gained by Miss
Annie Agnew, a student of Stott and Hoare s
Business College, who was awarded a gold medal
for 120 words per minute.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
The [sgiE Hand
The second half-year begins auspiciously with
the November number, now on sale.
Press criticisms throughout the whole Common-
wealth repeat the same note—that The Lone Hand
improves with every issue. That was the policy
decided upon from the first—to begin tentatively,
and to improve generously, as experience showed
the requirements of the public and the possibilities
of Australian Art and Letters.
Buy the November No. It will give you the
brightest of articles on sport, on industries, on the
frauds which disfigure Australian life. Send to
the office NOW for the first bound volume. Price
6s. 6d. It comprises nearly 700 pages of original
Australian matter. No better Christinas present
could be imagined for a friend abroad.
The |»£ie Hand
214 George Street, Sydney.
John Quick, another sick politician
voyaging for his health’s sake, has reached
Westralia. He was tackled there on the duties
on mining machinery, which it is alleged will
seriously affect the. Bull-owned gold mines of the
West. Quick defended the duties, declaring that
there was no reason why the machinery for the
mines could not be made in the Commonwealth,
provided that the industry was properly pro-
tected. In reply to a protest that “natural”
protection ought to be sufficient, Quick retorted
that freight from Melbourne to Fremantle was
255. a ton, while from New York to Fremantle it
was lGs.
One of the incidents that make Arbitration
Courts want to see books instead of relying upon
vague statements has happened in Maoriland. The
Auckland stonemasons claimed higher wages,
better hours, more overtime pay, and preference
to unionists. One builder, representing the em-
ployers, opposed all the demands. He declared it
was impossible to pay higher wages ; the existing
scale of payment was so high that work had to be
refused. As for preference to unionists, the
employers were unanimous that this was nothing
short of brigandage. After some talk like that,
all showing the iniquitous greed of the working
stonemason, the minutes of the Einplovers’ Associ-
ation were called for, and there the Court read a
resolution agreeing, without the least reserve, to
the whole of the men’s demands !
“ Nulla” : There was an accident out our
way recently, when a juggermotornaut did the
usual deed. As my tram approached the spot
marked X in the daily papers, the small man on
the front seat gave me the impression of a person
sitting on an ant-heap. Suddenly he speared the
atmosphere with a crooked forefinger. “There
it is,” he cried in triumph. “Y’ can see th’ blood
yet; there by the v’randah post.” There was a
patch on the roadway which might have been
blood or mud, or the tears of a rich importer who
had wept over the woes of the working classes.
But it absolutely fascinated the small man.
“Blood!” he shrieked. Then he was silent a
space. “But you should ha’seen it yesterday!
There was pools of it yesterd’y.” And not till
we turned the corner did he resume his quiet.
Maoriland “ wind-jammers ” in the timber
trade from Kaipara to Commonwealth ports are
developing a habit of running short of tucker.
Only a week or two since, the Speculant put into
Eden (N.S.W.) short of provisions, whilst on a
voyage from Kaipara to Warrnambool (Vic.); yet
she was then only 34 days out. Such bad judges of
appetites are some owners and agents, that a year
or so ago the Maoriland Government found it
necessary to insist on at least 50 days’ tucker
being on board every sailing vessel leaving the
Dominion for the Commonwealth. But, it seems,
miscalculations still happen. The officer of
Customs at Kaipara states that, when clearing,
the master presented a list showing that he had a
full supply on board ; and if that is so, it looks as
though it may be necessary for the Customs
people in future to spurn a proffered list and
make a personal inspection of the biscuit and the
salt pork.
In addition to the Senate bungle, S. Aus.
has, more or less, tangled itself up over the
Adelaide street-pavement question. A few years
ago F. H. Snow attempted to grab the city’s
tramway rights. The City Council made a
move to get in first with road levels, which
meant “grappling with the pavement problem,” as
the local papers majestically put it. However,
Snow failed to pull off his scheme, so the Council
went to sleep again. Then the Labor Govern-
ment, after several Tory Administrations had
failed, put the tramways on a workable basis, and
provided for electrification in one breath.
Thereupon the City, Council woke with a start,
and made a violent rush to “do something” to
the streets. A Melbourne tender was accepted
for paving King William, Bundle and Hindley
streets with jarrah blocks at a cost of £35,000,
subject to the confirmation of a special rate.
Fat potted the special rate at the poll. The City
Council thereupon casually accepted a second
tender from the same contractor to woodblock
King William-street for £15,000. Fat was flabber-
gasted, and an injunction was immediately hurled
at the Council to restrain it from proceeding with
the work. The Council snapped up J. H. Symon,
and is now saying “Come on”; and there is no
particular rush to “ come.”
Punters who failed to pick winners at the
Melbourne Cup, but who weighed in on D.C.L.
Whisky as the best refresher—tho’ neither whin
nor spur—of mental effort, found in that heart-
ening beverage the best weigh to the winning
post of a perennially cheerful spirit. D.C.L. is
the spirit that always cheers and makes the heart
of its imbiber to echo the glad hurrah ! *
Mr. Arthur Leplastrier, of Sydney, after having
toured the world, says he has not seen or heard of a
better Steam Engine than the “ Robey,” and that means
a range from Portable or Traction Engines to the most
scientific Drop Valve Triple Expansion Engines used in
the numerous enormous electrical installations. The
“ Robey ” Engine is now admitted to be the “Niagara” of
the steam world. Australians, although ahead in most
things, have not yet quite grasped the value of the higher
class of Wood-Working Machinery, and the firm with the
widest reputation in the Old World is A. Ransome and
Co. Ltd., of Newark-on-Trent, England, whose distribu-
tion in the past has been so great that it was useless
extending their propaganda to Australia. Mr. Leplastrier
has, however, now completed arrangements whereby
every person interested in saw-milling can obtain full
information about these high-class Wood-Workin«-
Machines.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
The incoming' Moana bears Palace Theatrewards one
Carter, “the world’s inimitable magician,” and Miss
Abigail Price, a mind reader who clamors for medical
investigation into her efforts. The twain are rumored to
be the Yank equivalent of boshter.
The mariner goes to the play, and then writes this:—
“ I don’t believe Capt. Stirling Whyte, of ‘ Brewster’s
Millions ’ (present port, Theatre Royal), has a master’s
certificate. If he had, he wouldn’t put the starboard
light on the port side of liis yacht, and, when signalling
‘ distress,’ he wouldn’t use flags on a pitch dark night.
Then again, it’s just as well to furl sails when your boat
is struck by a gale.”
Miss Lenore White, “ The Californian Venus,” writes to
this paper in bitter protest against other poseuses who
are not genuine Venuses “imitating her business.” It
seems the lady is thus caused much pain of mind and she
blushes to think of the shameless imitators who disrobe
on false pretences. The Bullktin has a good deal of
sympathy with Miss White. It, once in the long ago, saw
a posing Venus in a theatre who was about six feet seven
inches high and had three ample chins. Her pretty face
was like a Paphian dove roosting on billows of flesh, and
in this paper’s opinion no lady in the artistic disrobing
line should have more than two chins.
J.A.O. : S. M. Herald (26/10/’O7) writes apropos a
young Australian actor, who recently went to London •
He was in ‘The Judgment of Pharaoh’ at the Scala
Theatre London which entirely failed after arduous
(unpaid) rehearsal, a fact which opened the wanderer’s
eyes to the fact that actors on this side are exempt from
such calamities.” The comment is misleading. The
calamities ” are as frequent here as elsewhere. Actors
are not paid for rehearsal, and failures are not unknown.
I may cite One instance out of many I know : A company
with which the late Martin Simonsen was connected'
rehearsed an opera at Melbourne Theatre Royal for six
weeks. The ppera was played seven nights, and
then went sky-high. The performers were “ balanced,”
and- the “divvy” was 3s. 6d.—6d. a performance,
or, counting rehearsals, 6d. a week. One of the compan v
made a present of this wealth to the management, with
the remark that such a hard cheek might want moisten-
ing. Payment for rehearsals ”is one of the planks of a
new Vaudeville society, not long ago established in Lon-
don, but that end has not yet been attained. There is
something to be said for and against payment for re-
hearsals. Take a case. A revival of an old, well-known
opera is contemplated, and a chorus is engaged. Among
them will be many who know the opera backwards, as
the saying goes, and many will be novices. It would be
manifestly unfair to the management to pay these for
learning what they have to do, and, on the other hand
it is unfair to those who do know the work to have
to attend day after day, simply that they mav be of
assistance to the others. I think it would be a fair thing
to pay half-salary during rehearsals to those who could
do without them. lam told that Mr. Allan Hamilton is
now paying half-salaries for rehearsals, when the per-
former is not already a member of the company and in
receipt of full salary.
Amy Castles is to sing in four operas at Monte Carlo.
It > s rather a drop—grand opera in Monaco. The Casino
\\hieh runs this quaint little hi late, doesn’t encourage
diversion other than is to be found within the Casino
grounds. But both Melba and the de Reszkes have sun»■
in the Monte Carlo open house on occasion, so the
Australian soprano may be making a good debut after all.
In Monaco the commercial value of everything from
hotel dinners to the cast-off effects of suicides, is measured
by the occasion—and the time of year.
Miss Maud Mclntosh, of “Midnight Wedding’’fame is
in private life .Mrs. Browne. Her husband, Graham
Browne, is playing lead in “Barry Doyle’s Rest Cure,”at
the London Court Theatre. Rose Musgrove plays Lady
Hazel in the same production.
The Countess of Clancarty—Belle Bilton, of Variety
hall fame—left only £446. Probate for that amount has
been granted.
Visiting singer Clara Butt, according to a London
writer, is in a class of her own as a money-maker. She
can successfully dictate terms such as wouldn’t be looked
at from anyone else. The Tait fraternity, it’s alleged, had
to plump a solid ten thousand in a London bank before
Clara and co. w'ould even “ talk ” Australia.
Julius Knight is never so much the accomplished actor
as when taking' his calls (and how he does enjoy ’em !).
The curtain rises discovering- the co. in various attitudes
of shrinking* modesty. It falls and rises again on a
diminished number of shrinkers. Again it falls, and,
rising for the last time, reveals Julius just about to depart
from the stage. With the slightest start he notices that
something is up (it is the curtain, in point of fact), and
with just a tinge of reluctance he turns and lowers his
eyelids to the homage of the audience.
“S.” : “Li Sylphe,” the American dancer at Melb.
Opera House, has not been the success she deserved to
be. Her dancing is superlatively good. She is one of the
very few experts who can high-kick with elegance.
Thousands can kick high, but few ean do it with anything
of the poetry of motion. The high kick is usually a
spasmodic jolt, that seems to rick all the joints of the
kicker, and threatens to shoot her mechanical teeth into
the orchestra, but with La Sylphe it is a
flame-like rhythmical flow of the limh, as graceful
as the uplifting of a lily before the spring zephyr. This
slim and pretty Yankee has had no superior in Australia
as a poetic dancer, but her turn is a little too quiet, a
trifle too refined for Australian vaudeville. A spice more
devil is necessary. Above all, La Sylphe should tear
down the absurd setting in which she is placed. The
spangled fairy-dell sort of trellis-work background, which
looks as if it had been filched from a pantomime, gets
mixed up with the dancer’s evolutions, and is ruinous to
the effect. A plain black or white cloth setting (accord-
ing to costume) is what La Sjdphe’s turn demands.
•d ®’ rom A. j£. W. Mason’s novel, “ The Broken
Road Liuffe, a mortally-wounded Frontiersman, loq. to
“ 8 mend:—“ I told you of a supper I had one night at
the Savoy—do you remember? There was a young
Indian prince in England then. He dined in high places
and supped at the Savoy with the coryphees ; and both
in the high places and among the corvphCes his jewels
had made him welcome. This is the truth lam telling
you. Well, after supper that night, he threw a girl down
the stairs. Never mind what she was—she was of the
white ruling race—she was of the race that rules India.”
Vhich resurrects an actual happening of a few years
back, the assaulter being a polo-playing nigger, of im-
mense popularity in Court and sporting circles. The lady
who went down stairs without touching a step was his
mistress, and a musical-comedy star of wide fame. The
episode didn’t damage either party. A well-to-do nigger
can do most things in the amazing old Cold Country
without losing his halo, and', so far as the lady was con-
cerned, the prevailing feeling in her clan was that to be
slung downstairs by a potentate of color constitutes a
distinct tribute and a token of regard.
Last month saw the opening night of the first Jewish
.Theatre London has ever had. Haltyy’s ghastly opera—
the story of the Hebrew jeweller’s putative daughter,
IM 1 ® ohTht a t the stake, in a realistic atmosphere of
fried fish, by the Cardinal, who is her real father—was
done into Yiddish to an immense audience.
A note from London : With regard to a recent Bullktin
par, will you be kind enough to say that Miss Irene
Ainsley has never sung at a music hall? Miss
Ainsley is at present engaged for a series of high-
class concerts with Busoni, Backhaus and Donalda, the
last-named thus reciprocating Madame Melba’s interest
in her own career.
Hamer”: Governors have their uses. Once when
writer was attached to the management of a company
that struck a state capital in desperate circumstances,
he took the clothes he wore when he was a lord or some
similar circumstance from his property box, burnished
his cheek, and hired a cab with his last half-crown. He
aidn t expect to see the Governor, but he tried and he
aid see him ; and, moreover, he secured the Governor’s
attendance on the opening night. The Governor’s
attendance paid some back salaries, several bailiffs, and
a mortgage on the scenery; there were packed houses
ana enthusiastic press notices. If there had been no
Governor, Cie show, being merely an Australian one,
under Australian management, would have had empty
houses as far as the D.O. was concerned, and the papers
would have dealt out their notices with sarcastic super-
ciliousness. 1
The Countess of Rosslyn, who used to be Miss Anna
Robinson, till she picked up with the amazing nobleman
whom she divorced the other day, is taking to the boards
again and will “lead”at the Apollo Theatre, in “The
iiducatnon of Elizabeth,” by Horniman. Competent
statisticians hold that a divorce is worth to an actress in
_ogland at least five years’ training ; if she is not only a
divorceuse but a countess as well, she steps, without
further parley, into the Bernhardt class.
The new Drury Lane success, “The Sins of Society”
played five hours at rehearsal, and had to be blue-
penc'lled savagely to maintain any semblance of a plot,
while leaving in the three big sensation scenes (Long-
champs racecourse, a Thames boating scene, with a dive
over a real water weir, and the sinking of a troopship).
Out went the whole of a freak banquet, with the pluto-
crats neglecting their babies (if any) for their dogs • and
out went a church scene. This last was no real loss, for
the militant clergyman simply turned up at the ladies’
club, and gave his anti-Bridg - e sermon there.
A FRIENDLY GREETING.
L.B.M. (to new Labor Leader Fisher): “Of course you can never be like him , but be as
like him as you are able to be.”
Allan Hamilton, who is spending a few months in
Hobart, has been collecting- reasons why the Slowbartians
do not more liberally patronise music and the drama.
Result, so far, of his investigation :
(1) Because the theatre is opposite the morgue.
(2) Because it’s too near the end of the month.
(3) Because the theatre street is badiv lighted.
(4) Because a lot of people go to Sydney every Easter.
(5) Because it’s no use trying- to get in—the theatre is
so small.
(6) Because I saw 6. V. Brooke there 40 years ago, and
don’t want to forget that pleasant evening-.
(7) Because the management hasn’t sent “ passes.”
(8) Because they charge 6d. for early doors.
(9) Because they charge only 3d. to‘see a lantern show
while the theatre charges 35., 25., and Is.
(10) Because there will be a new theatre soon—in about
90 years—when we shall get a better seat.
(11) Because entertainments provided by the gramo-
phone shops are free.
Hall Caine, author of “ The Boomster ’’—the person who
aims to produce a facial effect somewhere midway
between the Redeemer and W. Shakspeare, but who
only succeeds in the ultimate resort in looking like a
dejected ram in a top-hat—has broken forth anew. He
gave about 300 parsons free seats, t’other night, for his
new play—a sexual hair-raiser, by all accounts, that puts
“ The Sign of the Cross ” in the icebox for all time. Of
course, they came, and were as edified as parsons mostly
are at this kind of slush. And then, framed in a circle of
admiring and foolish clerics, Hall the Awful played
his trump ad. His play, he explained, had a moral pur-
pose. That was the sole reason he wrote it. He (Hall)
had made a close study of females lost, stolen, strayed
and otherwise undone and mislaid, or left chargeable on
the parish. He wanted a mighty mansion built for them
by the millionaires whom he desired should come to see
his play. This mansion was to be a combination of a
Jew palace in Park Lane and a bad dream out of the
Apocalypse. And the man in charge “ must be without
a stain on his escutcheon, well born, well taught, with a
heart like a lion and the soul of a god ; a nobleman, if
possible, that no lady of rank may be unwilling to serve
Under his banner ; a gentleman, that no poor girl may be
afraid to come to him in her trouble ; a martyr, that no
failure can frighten, no ingratitude dishearten, and no
temptation gainsay.” In short, he was to be ’All Caine
or some other god of the sort.
Criminal is the dilatoriness of the alder-
man. In Murwillumbah, which had its business
end badly charred recently (largely through
lack of a water supply and effective fire brigade);
the principal business of a Municipal Council
meeting was to be the consideration of a water'
supply for fire-fighting purposes, and Widening the
main street to lessen the risk of fire crossing it, as
occurred during the recent- flare. And the
council meeting lapsed for want of a quorum.
The inquiry as to the value of the vast
Peel River estate at Tamworth, which the
N.S.W. Government intends to resume under the
compulsory section of the Closer Settlement Act,
has now begun. An expensive Bar has been en-
gaged, and since the inquiry will last some
weeks, Costs already begin to loot the future
settlers. Further, under the Act, the Govern-
ment must resume the whole of the estate (some
hundreds of thousands of acres, including the
homestead and all improvements). As these are
not required for closer settlement, their purchase
will materially add to the price per acre
which will have to be paid by the settlers.
This provision in the O.S. Act requiring the re-
sumption of the whole of any estate resumed
under the compulsory clauses, has been found to
operate against the interests of the Government,
and W ade proposes to bring in a Bill to amend
the Act in this particular. Seeing this, it would
have been as well to have delayed resuming
Peel River until the amending Act was law.
But a graduated land tax would save all the bother
and expense.
“Boll,” from a place that might be
further from Melbourne than it is :
Some women lead bandit’s lives. Struck a little girl
lately who earns an honest crust doing sewing. She
lived for a time rent free in a lonely, out-of-the-way,
God-forsaken district, in return for her services as care-
taker of the Mechanics’ Institute—a weird, ghostly, rat-
haunted barn. She was supposed to guard a few standard
mouldy works provided by a long-forgotten town coun-
cillor, who had intended them for the improvement of
the minds of the surrounding farmers and their families.
The surrounding farmer, as a rule, doesn’t pine to read
David Copperfield ” or “ Bleak House,” and Miss
Siirroundinr Parmer prefers the Family Herald, where
duke sports at large. The patrons of this poor
little soul paid her in kind—that is, when she sent in her
near, 1 tile account for the making of a dress, etc., they
would i?nd along a bag of onions, or a few dozen
eggs, Or half-a-side of bacon, or the offer of the
loan of a plough, or any old thing that hap-
pened to be lying around, and she either had to
trade with the grocer—who was himself getting pretty
sour on the “in kind” system of doing business—or
subsist on bacon without bread, or onions without bacon,
until the next job came along. There came a time when
nothing came along for a few weeks, and the little dress-
maker’s dietary scale got down to black tea and an unholy
concoction she called bread. Then she developed
“ nerves,” and took to sleeping with a loaded revolver on
one side and a tomahawk on the other. At this point
the local schoolmaster and his wife took a hand and broke
in to the rescue. They were received with firearms and
hysterical cries for help; but, notwithstanding, they
gathered up the half-starved dressmaker-caretaker and
bore her off. The standard works are now left to the
care of the rats and spiders.
fascinations I ’w'*f^-n }oufc drink > gambling and other
It’s thP wol; . w ait tiil you get the barnstorming fever !
o « r ,' a ,t ° f the lot ' A friend of mine has had
lesDairin f lou n ,f!'. o '7\/ r 7 and wo ‘ n > Piloting small,
W, bbads. 5 ds . of hamfats through the
of stratesw landlord of the bush pub per medium
for that windows, and bravely waiting
-enius but P isnT shou . ,d ba the ‘reward of
butVaUs lA w, , H ,S always r0ln " t 0 make a fortune,
in town nnH k °'’ m° re -Perhaps less-finds him back
isolated W k ° members of his co. are drifting in by
isolated bunches and units, according to their luck and
and a Do l u k nd B or aPaCifcy ‘ ° ccasionall .V he makes expenses
p" vnt P nnH d r OVe * and then there is Joy and beer in
|P‘ a f sardines in Gilead. More often it is only
a-dor of h h t a , walts hlm - But nothing diminishes the
Ti! en thusiasm. He is convinced that he is the
greatest Thesinan of them all, and will yet be hailed as
the legitimate successor of Dan Barry. He is like the
fol aP hi a g ' a ?u )le V vho knovvs the ‘only sure system
or breaking the bank in several hundred pieces.
He scorns such folly as ordinary hard work, but will walk
a 1 .0 1?? a railway track, supporting on one side a
6 !£ ht ,°f portmanteau, and on the other the
fainting leading lady. For the last week mv acquaintance
has been resting, recuperating himself and raising a new
pair of boots. However, he is just setting forth again,
with a small but awful crowd of Poverty-Pointers and the
air of Marcus Incredible at a women’s party, to ravage
through the defenceless country. Great is the heart, but
gi eater the gall of the battling mummer !
THE MAN OUTSIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The actor-manager bestrode
With mighty feet the quaking stage,
And with his insults strove to goad
The good young man to blinder rage.
He’d snarl, and grin, and growl, and nod,
And scowl just like a heathen god.
The audience with eyes intent,
(There were just twenty-one of it)
All wondered what the villain meant.
Complainants murmured in the pit.
.When someone clamored at the door
The heavy villain ceased to roar,
And at the humble rouseabout
He shook his fist, with anger red.
“What’s that infernal row, you lout?”
“ Please, sir,” the ticket-taker said,
“A man outside, who’s at a crack,
He says he wants his money back ! ”
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.


mlk
I V(
SOFT SHIRT
POPULARITY
Has not been earned by false merit—it’s their downright
comfort that makes them so.
The man who wears the Soft Shirt once never goes back to
the old-style stiff, white-fronted kind.
Shirts like the one we illustrate can be had in sizes from
Ui to 17 inch Collars.
Priced at 5/H*
They are made of Cotton Oxford, in striped designs. The
Collar, which is detachable, is supplied with the Shirt, and
made from the same material. Stiff White Collars can be worn
with these Shirts, if desired.
For Golf, Motoring, Riding, for City or Country wear
they are admirably suited. Send a trial order under the con-
ditions that, if the goods are not what you desire or fulfil every
word set down here, they may be returned, and your money will
be refunded. We send them carriage paid to any Post Office,
Railway Station or Seaport throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “ puts through their tricks ” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*
A dose or two of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera; and Diarrhoea Remedy will relieve cramp,
colic, or a pain in the stomach.* ,
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers ot
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portugal
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“ Petramos ” : With me the study of
pants is a favorite pastime. I have made careful
observations of the trousers of Methodist minis-
ters, always with the same result. They never
fit. Never, never, never! Ido not state this
with the object of raising the sectarian issue, but
merely as a cold statement of a sad truth. See
the glossy silk hat of the Methodist parson ! See
your reflection in the shiny surface of his immacu-
late collar ! Gaze on his well-brushed coat !
Then droop your eyes to his trousers. His mysti-
fying trousers ! His frayed-at-the bottom pants!!
His trousers may fit him when they come from the
tailors, but never for long after.
BEYOND HOPE.
MRS. COHEN: “ Ikestein, I vos afraid little Ikey
vos not veil! ”
COHEN: “ Vy, rot's der madder? ”
MRS. COHEN: “He lies in his gradle der whole
day, und don’t take no interest in anything .”
COHEN: “Vot! Don’t take no interest? Der
poy must he dead! ”
Sydney Harbor foreshores are now
guarded against the picnicker and the visitor
and the artist in an almost ferocious manner.
The landlord is always lying in wait to order
people back to their boats (as was done when
the yacht lolanthe, sheltering from a storm, was
forced to put out by a landlord and had seven of
its occupants, men, women and children, drowned),
and to enforce his orders he has sometimes a
pack of bloodhounds, which he lets loose if the
landing party exhibits any tardiness in obeying
orders to leave.
Last week the Government of N.S.W., in
cold blood and with solemn ritual, broke the
neck of Nicholas Baxter, whom its Courts
had found guilty of the murder of the aged, help-
less Mrs. Macnamara. He was a useless drunkard
and a cowardly murderer, if that is any mitiga-
tion of the Law’s homicide. But Nicholas Baxter
had a wife and three little children, the youngest
of them a baby in arms. They had nothing to do
with his crime, but they have to bear perhaps the
greatest portion of the punishment of it.
Nicholas Baxter’s agony lasted seconds—theirs
will endure for long and bitter years. They are
left dependent on charity, and your hangman’s
rope is a great strangler of charity. Humanity
and Justice demand that where the Law, in the
cause of justice, takes the life of a man or woman,
it should provide for the maintenance of the crim-
inals’s dependents. In so-called barbarous Russia,
when the Law casts a man into gaol, it makes him
work for the benefit of his family, and sees that
the family gets the benefit of the work. The
present law of N.S. W. not only punishes the actual
offender, but, more harshly, his wife and children.
Premier Wade is said to be a humane man, with
an eye specially on the rights of helpless children.
Here is an opportunity to prove it.
* * * *
The efficacy of hanging as a deterrent to
murder was strikingly illustrated in Sydney last
week. On Tuesday morning Baxter was suspended
for the Enmore murder ; the same afternoon, just
about the time when the community should have
been struck rigidly moral by the “awful vindica-
tion of the law,” a man fired three point-blank
revolver shots at a policeman. He didn’t kill the
policeman—but it wasn’t the morning’s business
at Darlinghurst that stopped him.
Civilisation isn’t always properly appre-
ciative of what it owes to the churches. For
example, it is not generally known that it is due
to the careful researches of a clergyman that the
present humane method is adopted of regulating
the length of the drop to the weight of a criminal
about to be hanged. Some time in the ’seventies
there was an execution in Dublin, and owing to
some bungling the man was decapitated, the head
being literally torn from the body. The late Rev.
Samuel Haughton, Fellow of Trinity College,
Dublin, a well-known mathematician and scientist,
joint author of Galbraith and Haughton’s
Manuals, took the subject in hand as a mathe-
matical problem. His position as Dean of the
Faculty of Medicine, in the Medical School of the
University of Dublin, gave him the opportunity
of utilising subjects provided for dissection. Ex-
periments were made, theories propounded, and
tested, the strength and resistance of the various
tissues of the neck investigated, the increase in
velocity of falling bodies from varying heights
calculated. The whole inquiry evolved a com-
plete mathematical formula, culminating in the
demonstration of how to scientifically deprive a
human being of life by breaking the neck without
severing the head from the body. Under the
supervision of the Reverend Professor the next
condemned was carefully weighed, the tonicity and
breaking strain of the neck mathematically esti-
mated, and the length of drop allotted. The pro-
fessor detailed the result at a meeting of the Bio-
logical Society of the University :
I am very happy to inform you that the subject met
with a painless death ; the neck was completely broken,
while none of the soft tissues were lacerated. My com-
panion Fellows and I were hurriedly departing from the
scene of the execution, when my hand was suddenly
seized by someone and most cordially shaken. It was
the hangman, who greeted me':—“Be gorrah, sir, didn’t
we do that well ! ”
“ Watto ” : Our Aunt Mary went down to
Sydney to recuperate. Everything went well till
someone persuaded her to take a sarsaparilla mix-
ture before each meal as a tonic. Aunt Mary, who
takes everything recommended by everybody,
procured some immediately, and started the
treatment at once. The result was fearful:
At afternoon tea she was voluble, but at
dinner she talked with such emphasis, and
gave vent to such startling opinions that
those who heard were amazed. During
the evening she startled the house with
wild bursts of hyaena laughter, and greeted
the appearance of supper with a loud
howl. About midnight the housemaid re-
ported that the old lady in the back bal-
cony room was “ goin’ on somethin’ awful.”
The landlady found Aunt on the bed, waving
her booted feet in the air. The sarsaparilla
tonic was firmly removed, and a respectable
lady, who always votes No-License, quickly
sobered up.
There have been ructions again in the
Sydney Immigration League. Dr. Arthur, its
first founder, has been turned out of the position
of president, and, taking with him some of the
most earnest workers, has founded a new organi-
sation. That Arthur is often tactless must be
admitted, and he has given some occasions for
criticism. Still, after all, he is the Immigration
League, and that body’s action in turning him
down is practically equivalent to cutting off its
own head. A flighty head is sometimes a worry ;
but it’s on the whole better than an amputated
head.
MR. SOPHT : “ I see some fellah has an article in the papah entitled, ‘ Have we two bwains or
one?’ What do you think of that question, Miss Flight"
MISS FLIGH : “ Well, really, between you and me, I think we have only one.”
N.S.W. Shearers’ Hut Accommodation Act
finds it difficult to get into its stride. It took
years of Labor agitation to pass the measure, and
when at last it went on the Statute Book, it was
with a condition that it should not be enforced
until it was proclaimed. It remained a dead
letter season after season, year after year ; one
Minister found the drought was so severe that
pastoralists could not be expected to go to expense
over huts ; and another Minister discovered floods
taxed all the squatters’ resources; and still another
Minister instituted inquiries, and either never
received answers or forgot to act upon them.
Lately the Garruthers Government, pushed to the
wall, agreed to enforce the Act and to prosecute
wherever pastoralists were found evading the
provisions which were intended to ensure health
and decency. But, of course, there had to be
evidence of such evasion, and the Government
appointed in most districts the local police to do
the inspection and compile the evidence against
the squatter, or pastoralist company, or banking
corporation. And that doesn’t work satisfactorily.
Now there is a demand to place the inspection on
a different and independent footing.
* * * *
During a recent visit to Sydney, Queens-
land Registrar-General Weedon made arrange-
ments by which copies of the records of births,
deaths, and marriages for Moreton Bay, Ipswich,
and Darling Downs districts, prior to
the separation of Queensland from
N. S. Wales, are to lie supplied to
the Queensland Government. The
records go back as far as 1829.
But they don’t represent all
the births, deaths, and mar-
riages of the period. Before
State registration arrived
the parson was the only
recorder of these domes-
tic events, and the parson
didn’t pervade the country
in the ’thirties with any-
thing like his present
numerousness. Among the
names of clergymen on
the marriage lines the
most noticeable are those
of Benjamin Glennie (Angli-
can archdeacon), John Han-
ley (Roman Catholic dean), and
William Lambie Nelson (father
of Queensland ex-Premier Nelson). Nelson,
Griffith, Reid, Playford, Higgins, and Way were
notable instances of how the parson’s offspring
takes to politics.
* * * *
As The Bulletin announced more than
six months ago, Dr. Tidswell’s report as to the
introduction to Australia of the Danysz virus for
rabbit-poisoning is altogether condemnatory.
When publicity was given in these columns to the
fact—ascertained on unimpeachable authority—
there were all sorts of threats of “proceedings’’
and so on from interested folk. Now, what was
their object ? They knew as well as we did that
what was published was a statement of the truth.
Was there any idea of passing on the financial
baby in the minds of some of those who had put
money into the experiments ?
* * * *
N.S.W. Government now refuses to hand
over the Cataract reservoir to the Water and
Sewerage Board. Sydney is indebted to the
Government for the fact that the reservoir is
tainted with rotten vegetation—a taint that the
Government insisted on in spite of the Board’s
protests. Presumably now the Government
intends keeping the reservoir under its control,
lest by some mischance it should be allowed to
become clean.
“ Typhone ” has a jaundiced view
I have inspected the so-called Women’s Work Exhibition
in Melbourne. It is not true to label, and ought to be
suppressed under the Commerce Act. The product of
%
exhibits represent the sort of work the busy idlers do,
drawn-thread things in which the worker undoes half of
what the weavers did, hideous daubings of unimaginative,
quarter-taught painters, and frilled dirt-collectors for
articles of clothing which are only seen in the streets on
jSKjRjg
tails, or ten million pieces of silk patched together, and
carved chairs and chests of drawers which no one dare go
near for fear of being speared. The art exhibits slop all over
the place. They are in every court, on the stairway, and
in among the pots and pans of certain ha*• -
ware vendors who run an advertising show on the giouna
floor< i looked in vain for samples of the kind of women’s
work that I have frequently seen at the Morgue—the
little bodies of roasted, starved or parboiled infants done
to death while the good, kind ma was telling Mrs. Jones
next door what “ a brute of a ’usband I’ve got.”
*.* * *
From a Maoriland paper ;
At the annual meeting of the church council,
held last evening, Deacon said be was glad to
inform those present that the debt on their church had
A d th Lord ' saldi “Don’t mention it, dear
Deacon ”
Urging that it was quite safe to let the
Hindu hawker into Australia, Mrs. Molyueux
Parkes told the Anti-Sosh Women’s Conference
in Melbourne: —
The caste prejudice of the Indian is very strong. The
race was inclined to look down upon ours, and- conse-
quently she thought the male would not stoop to mar-
riage with our girls.
That probably explains why the high-caste Hindu
gentlemen, as many as a dozen of them in a
noisome camp on the N.S.W. North Coast, all
refer to their white “housekeeper” as “my
wife.” Not one of them would “stoop to mar-
riage”; they just get along without that. Is it
Aunty-Sosh’s theory that, so long as the white
woman doesn’t go to the marriage registrar with
Ram Chunder, it doesn’t matter where else she
goes with him ?
* * » *
Miss Robinson’s diary, in the Druce case,
appears to be an unfortunate book. Miss Robin-
son is from Maoriland and a witness in the case.
At one time the lady reported the diary as having
been stolen from her luggage during the voyage,
but, after an exciting hunt, the precious volume
was found in the bottom of a trunk. Now it is
alleged to have been snatched from her in a
London street.
LEST ALGERNON SHOULD LEARN TO SWEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A convention of the Tasmanian W.C.T.U. has con-
sidered the proposal for compulsory military training: of
the youth of the Commonwealth, and has come to the
conclusion “ that such training-would prove demoralising
to the young men of our State in that they would be
leaving their homes at a most critical time of their lives.”
A memorial setting out this view of the case has been
presented by Mr. Storrer to the House of Representa-
tives.
Australia may be wiped out by the Chow !
But better that than Algernon should swear.
The Jap may over-run our land ; but how
If Willy should get vine leaves in his hair?
Liver, and black and tan, and mud-hues may
Pollute the white man’s fount unto his shame 1
But better that than e’er should come the day
When Samuel knows the wicked two-up game !
A Jap may be the Argus editor 1
The newest bishop’s name may be Ah Cow 1
But better that disgrace, and even more,
Than little Tommy’s “ fall ” should wring our brow !
Better the Commonwealth should fall down dead !
Better good soldiers we should direly lack, or
Not even one white man should raise his head,
Than Willy know the odor of terbacker !
Football is wrong and rough ! Boxing is rude 1
He who goes swimming shall not come to grace !
You shall become a cross ’twixt pimp and prude
An you but listen to Miss Frostiface 1
Australia ! Splendid name 1 He who attaints
Her by neglect but gives her to the alien 1
Down! Down! you weak-kneed, timid, meddling
saints—
The better Christian is the good Australian.
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE BLIND ORGAN GRINDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A shabby figure by the sun-gilt wall,
The tuneless jingles of the street he plays,
And grinds into the music’s rise and fall
The long monotony of sightless days.
Q.
M. FORREST.
A SONG
of
THE SKIRT
Mt NE *i m A "'nw s\'i< r
Qe JURE TH*! THE LENGTH 15
PROVIDE. T«M I JjHAU BE WEU GIRT
> IN A COSTUME NOT TOO r»GHT
__ How I E>M*LE I PRINCE ON THE MANCf
And TR'P To The waters' blue
I fEEL THE STR|FMGTH Or TttE HEW CrOWN BAND
And a w the cpstuahe: too
y*ME OCEAN SMILES WHJE H IN I CJ^EEP
/\ Ht * HWL-5 ait gaudy D^SS
= A Nt> THE MoN£TE«CS Of THE PFEf
These —=;
I 6R.EASX THE WAVES WtJH THE C*J= AN EAI^L
> And I piunoe wifn A new fouNo joy
AhD I foot. THE SEA *OR INSJEAO OJ A Qll^jL.
Me s huqgino a new made boy
W. [?] V[?]T


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
BEWARE
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Ansemia, Insomnia, etc.
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HICHLY MAGNETIC, and
“Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland:
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
No matter how severe an attack of diarrhoea
may be, Chamberlain’s Colic Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy never fails to give relief.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
Do You Ride Horseback ?
IF you do horseback riding here’s a pair of Riding Breeches that ought
to interest you. They are specially made for ns in three different
materials—all capable of resisting the hardest wear and guaranteed to
give the greatest satisfaction at their respective prices.
WHITE and COLORED CANTON MOLESKIN, 15/6
DARK and MID=GREY SADDLETWEED, 25/-
BEDFORD CORD, 27/6.
LEGGINGS (Puttee), as illustration, 10/6
To give Strength and Hard Wear the Knees and Seat are strapped.
When ordering please state waist measurement measure-
ment above knee under knee calf
THE LAST THREE MEASURES SHOULD BE TAKEN NEXT TO SKIN.
PEAPES & CO. LTD
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,"
309-3 U GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Norman Lindsay’s “ Pollice Yerso” has
been sold to Melbourne National Gallery for
150 guineas. It is the biggest price ever
paid in Australia for a black-and-white.
This tribute to a great artist is the more
pleasing because the picture in question was bit-
terly attacked by the ignorant and the jealous
when first shown in Sydney in 1905. The Royal Art
Society was inclined to refuse it a “show ” at all;
when wall space was grudgingly given it was near
the skyline where the flies roost. A suggestion by
one or two critics that the Sydney National
Gallery should purchase an obvious masterpiece
was treated with cold scorn. It is a good thing
for Australia that Melbourne is wiser.
Sydney National Gallery, it may be remarked
again at this juncture (the remark should be made
every week, in the hope that it will get to the dull
perceptions of the mostly inartistic and artless
trustees), has not a single masterpiece of Aus-
tralian black-and-white. Phil May, Hopkins, and
Lindsay have done in that medium work which is
on the top level of world’s achievement. They
all, in a sense, belong to Sydney, as having done
their best work here; but their city’s gallery
knows them not.
* * * *
“ Louis Esson ” on “ Pollice Yerso ” :
. So far, the theme of the drawing attracts more atten-
tion than its art. Its Nietzschean ethic, its “ blasphemy,”
its “candor”—by such accidents are too many people
attracted or repelled. There is a certain section of
dilettanti which considers that whatever is supposed to
be immoral must necessarily be inartistic ; and there is
another _ section which considers that whatever is
immoral is therefore highly artistic. For these reasons
many people have acquired a cheap reputation for
morality by condemning-“ Pollice Yerso ” ; while many
others, _by praising it, have acquired a still cheaper
reputation for immorality. Art has nothing to do with
morals (that is, in the theological sense of that abused
word), though, as Verhaeren maintains, every masterpiece
is part of the conscience of the world. But an artist’s
professed philosophy need never be taken very seriously ;
and it matters little whether Norman Lindsay be a Neo-
Pagan, an Early Christian, oran esoteric Buddhist. Jew,
Christian, or Heathen may all equally delight in this real
masterpiece.
Truly, it is a noble composition. The figure on the
Cross is handled with exquisite skill, and artistic
sympathy ; the landscape is beautiful and mysterious, the
clouds fine in color ; the “ line ” of the passing Pagans, an
heroic group, heroically visioned, sweeps grandly, though
two or three of the foreground figures are, perhaps, some-
what too equal in tone value. The work is rhythmically
decorative, and glows with color. In black-and-white art
Norman Lindsay has no compeers; indeed, few even of
the old masters ever used the pen more richly. Black-and-
white, the Cinderella of the arts, which too often returns
to base uses, he has raised to one of the most serious
media for the expression of modernity.
' * * * *
Nearly £4OOO has been spent this year on
art works in Melbourne, which has made sudden
claim to be an Australian Athens or Florence.
Amateurs like Prof. Spencer and L. Abrahams
have already begun to make private collections,
and other men of affairs seem likely to emulate
these local Medici. The Felton bequest has set
the example. The Melbourne man begins to feel
like an old Athenian, or Florentine, or modern
burgess of Amsterdam or Glasgow—he must
live up to the reputation of his art-loving city.
Every happy purchase—the Rodin, the Pissarro,
the Corot, the Fremiet, the Norman Lindsay—is
a fresh stimulus. Sydney, which was once a home
of the arts, does not develop in the same direction.
It will degenerate into a provincial city if it con-
tinues to turn its thumb down on the things of the
intellect, and actually to take pride in its Philis-
tinism.
* * * •
The exemption certificates scheme, under
the Sydney Shop Assistants’ Arbitration award,
gives the sweating employer the opportunity to
victimise his employees, and he seems to rush it.
The employees in some Sydney houses are plainly
given to understand that these certificates must
be applied for, or they must accept dismissal.
A Federal law making miscegenation a
penal offence is badly wanted on the North Coast
of N.S.W. Picturesque Maclean, on the
Clarence River, easily heads the list for
alliances between white women
and Kanakas. It was in that
locality thatthenotorious
Jane Davis, now ser-
ving a life sentence
in Darlinghurst for
giving leper
Tommy Abra-
hams a dose of
strychnine, used
to “keep house”
for some half-
dozen Couth
Sea Islanders.
Up the river
from Grafton
there is a white
woman who has for-
saken a white hus-
band to be missus for
some ten or a dozen Hin-
dus. Of course, she is not
legally married to them ; the
parson is guiltless, owing to some
defect in the law which does not
allow him to marry one white woman
to several Hindus. But each nigger
always refers to her as “ my wife.”
A nice gentlemanly fellow, who admitted
over 30 prior convictions, was charged at Fitzroy
(Melb.) last week with assaulting a cripple-
woman. The evidence showed that he had
knocked her down, knelt on her chest, bitten
through her cheek, and otherwise brutally ill-
treated her, one constable saying that he thought
a murder had been committed when he entered
the house and found blood spattered over the
walls and floor. A cruel Bench fined the poor
fellow £5 ! There was only one J.P. on the Bench,
which was hard luck for the accused. Had there
been three he might have been discharged with a
caution.
B enley-on-t he-Yarra is a decent spree,
prejudiced in the Australian mind by a deplorable
title. It is saddening to reflect that young Aus-
tralia can’t take his girl out in a decorated punt
and frivol on the river in the liquid gold of his
native sunshine without being reminded of the
capers of an effete aristocracy on a grease-spattered
stream in a cold island on the other side of the
world. In England there is a Henley, and
the name belongs, but the superior Melbournian
hasn’t sufficient self-respect to find a name of
his own and a method of his own when he wishes
to be giddy up the river; so to be intensely
English he names his escapade after a caper in a
far land, and in his efforts narrowly escapes being
miserable. This waterside holiday may easily
become a grand national institution if the people
are permitted to give free play to their own
cheerful Australian inclinations to evolve a
carnival of spring suitable to the spirit of the
time, the climate, and the country. Meanwhile
the name fetters imagination, and limits the
spree to a benighted effort on the part of a few
fashionables to be intensely Hinglish for the
mortification of the local democracy.
* * * #
Tom Bent does not get much respect from
Melbourne crowds, but his touch of megalomania
pulls him through. He was the most barracked
performer at Henley-on-the-Drain, on Saturday
week, and whenever his motor boat drew near
the south bank he was chivvied with a blatant dis-
regard for his high estate and his enormous im-
portance. In fact, he was popularly accepted as
chief clown of the festival. Once when the wash
of his tub interfered with the rowing of
an eight, the stroke ripped out a streak
of abusive language in the face of the
Premier, and passionately reminded Tommy that
he didn’t own the lurid river. Tom always re-
torted on his critics, but in this lattter case the
“eight” was a quarter of a mile off while Tom
was still on his legs, gesticulating, and throwing
remarks into space. He only ceased when a boat-
load of youths collided with his craft, in the hope
of precipitating a valuable politician of vast bulk
headlong into the stream. Even after he had
toppled for two seconds on the awful verge of a
national calamity, and when eager hands dragged
him down into a safe position squat on the bottom
of the boat, Tommy was not disconcerted. You
couldn’t wound Bent’s dignity with a hundred-ton
gun, for the same reason that you couldn’t nip a
guinea-pig’s tail with a Nasmyth hammer.
* * * *
“Hiphen” tells how Sarah got into
Society :
I am much about that maligned stream, the Yarra.
Among my river acquaintances is a humble barge, The
Giddy Sarah. Daily, with several sisters, she conveys
mud to the sea. She is useful, but unlovely. She ‘is
broad of beam and ungainly of gait. She has a blows.y,
raffish, seen-lmtter-da.vs appearance. She is a mud barge
with a past. Yet her heart is good, though her smell is
bad. . . .
On Henley-on-the-Yarra night we were drifting around
in a skiff, Youth in the prow and Beauty at the helm. (I
wa-steering.) We were admiring the house-boats, the
illuminations, and the fireworks.
We stopped, smell-bound, before one fairy palace, an
electric-lighted bower of roses. From it floated on the
balmy air, etc., soft, love-compelling strains of music, the
silvery laughter of lovely women and the popping of
champagne corks, etc.
I asked myself “Ami in Venice?” I replied to my-
self, “ I am not sure.”
Then something familiar struck me about that gorgeous
house-boat.
I took a closer survey.
I rubbed my eyes.
I hastily enumerated the drinks I had had.
No, I was not dreaming. Alas, I was sober.
It was, it was, The Giddy Sarah.
Under all her paint and powder, her fal-lals and her
finery, I recognised her battered, mud-sodden features.
Poor old mud-barge ! She knew that I knew her.
Never have I seen anything so self-conscious, ashamed
and uncomfortable. In charity I passed on without a
word, leaving her with that fashionable crowd, cham-
pagne stains on her sham decks. . . .
On Monday, after the regatta, The Giddy Sarah was
her disreputable self again. I saw her rollicking con-
tentedly down stream with several of fier dissolute com-
panions, the rich, aromatic river mud oozing over her fat
plebeian sides.
IN TOPHET.
OUTPOSTUS : "Ah! here they come; the first hatch
from the Cup carnival.”
Get to hard labor, young man—from your
own judgment, if you can ; if not, from a Judge.
But get to it.
* * * *
MajorP. G. Pennymore, William Sandford’s
manager for his first blast furnace, goes back to
England shortly, having finished his stipulated
job of putting the furnace in running order. At
a valedictory meeting, the retiring manager said
it came as a surprise to him that so few trained
men were required to start the works. So
proficient had the Australian workmen become,
that Pennymore said his successor, now on his
way from England, would have an easy job.
Pennymore also remarked that he was convinced
that Australian workmen could adapt themselves
to anything, and that the progress made
would be a credit to any class of workmen any-
where in the world. Pennymore’s advt. for the
Australian workman should be plastered on the
front gate of the Stinking Fish party, whose
creed is that Australia is incapable of making a
chair leg or bass broom.
THE BURDEN OF SEX.
“ If I marry when I grow up, will I have a husband, like father? ”
“ Very likely, my dear."
“ And if I don't marry, will I he an old maid like aunty
“ Of course you will.”
“ Oh, my! Haven't we women a hard time?”
“ H.G.” : Apropos of this fuss in Sydney
because three suburban mayors wanted people to
wear more clothes when they bathe. Why
should Australians perpetuate the dirty habit of
wearing clothes at all ? A cultured, scientifically-
trained man or woman who had been brought up
without a knowledge of clothing would revolt at
the very idea. The human being respires through
his skin as well as through his lungs, and by wear-
ing clothing he is acting just about as logically as
if he plugged up one of his nostrils in the in-
terests of decency. Nobody who wears clothes can
be properly clean unless he chooses to change his
undergarments at least a dozen times every day.
The wearing of clothes dates from the time when
sundry human beings were driven by more
vigorous races into northern climates, never in-
tended for human occupation. The fugitives—
obviously the inferior race—-were forced to choose
between perishing quickly from cold and being
slowly suffocated by placing obstructions in front
of the pores of their skins. They chose the lesser
evil, and, in the course of generations, their de-
scendants became immune to the deadly effects of
partial suffocation, just as they became im-
mune to the deadly effects of alcohol,
measles, and other pests which, together with
clothes, devastate the races unused to them.
Now the clothes-wearing habit has been im-
ported, with many other objectionable habits,
into Australia, where it is not necessary to live
uncleanly for more than three months of the year.
The decency of the matter is merely a conven-
tion, and, anyhow. Nature has provided a natural
garb for human beings in the tan she places on
their skins. The new surf-bather, with his
white arms and legs, resembling something that
has been turned up under a stone, is certainly
grotesquely and hideously obscene. But see him
six months later. His warm brown skin is a gar-
ment in itself, and he ought to be able to stray
anywhere attired in nothing else without giving
offence or attracting a rude glance.
“ Rosack ” : Have any Bulletin readers
tested pine-apple juice as a strengthener of the
lungs and throat ? Have heard that some doctors
recommend it as a remedy for diphtheria if taken
at the first sign of the disease, but cannot say so of
my own knowledge. But I can vouch for its
curative effect on sore throats and inflamed
bronchial surfaces.
Patrons no longer discharge bouquets at
those theatrical performers who please them, and
it is not now usual to see a plump soprano smitten
violently in the main-spring of her high C with a
hard mass of botanical specimens, hurled by an
admirer in the stalls; but the floral contribution
continues to be a nuisance and an outrage at
theatres. Now-a-nights the sweet pea and the
rhododendron have to be delivered to the astonished
soprano by a long line of assistants and an active
actor man, who gallantly seizes the samples as
they are served up, and hangs them about the
fair lady, propping the surplus against her
feet, while the other actresses stand round, smil-
ing like fiends, and looking so stark and distressed
that every feeling heart in the audience bleeds for
them. The actress who does not receive a bouquet
when half a florist’s stock is being dumped on the
stage looks so like the leading juvenile at a hang-
ing that the giving of flowers should be wholly
suppressed at the instance of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Actors. In any case it
is unreasonable, inartistic, and absurd to delay a
famished audience, lusting for Chablis and
oysters or scrambled Frankfurters and hot spuds,
while a grimacing female has garlands hung about
her till she resembles the tombstone of a popular
jockey.
A simple little bouquet caused a heap of mis-
chief and considerable screaming in a Melbourne
theatre between acts recently. The floral tribute
was passed up out of the O.P. box by a hireling,
and taken in charge by a decorative actor with a
fluent style of walking, who wound himself into a
beautiful bow, and passed the bunch of daisies to
Miss Sophronia Jones, at which Miss Eglantine
Smith gave a gasp that could be heard in
the next street, and signalled fiercely, claiming
possession of the goods. She was gesticu-
lating with anger, and saying things in a
shrill whisper when the curtain fell, and although
the audience howled to have the rag up again it
couldn’t be done, because Sophronia and Eglantine
were having a spirited cat-fight over the flowers.
Eglantine declared the gift offering was hers;
Sophronia denied it, and hung on. Eglantine
grabbed, and then there was a brisk interchange
of compliments and scratches. The bouquet was
ruined, and the young ladies came out of the wrangle
more or less tattered and torn, and each with her
dear little nose sadly lacerated. The people in the
orchestra stalls heard the last scream of the
baffled Eglantine. “ Yours indeed ! Yours, you
creature!” she cried. “Why, I bought them
myself! ”
« * * *
N.S.W. Primate Smith notified last week
that in view of the droughty conditions he was
thinking of inviting the four principal churches to
join in a prayer for rain. That leaves close on a
dozen Christian churches, and as many more of
other denominations, out, apparently on the
ground that they have no appreciable influence
with the Almighty. Or, perhaps, they are not
toney enough to associate with. A lady Deform
politician arranging a deputation to a little Pre-
mier a short while back, limited the deputation to
“ladies of good standing.”
* * * «
Exeter (Eng.) Bible Christians have in-
sured their minister, the Rev. M. J. Lark, under
the W° r kmen’s Compensation Act. So if, in
wrestling with the Devil, the gentleman sprains
an ankle, the insurance co. will have to face the
loss.
“THE DISTURBING ELEMENT.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rev. J. Gray wants Melbourne Presbytery to do some-
thing- final and emphatic, because Williamson’s chorus
girls collected £250 for the hospitals h.v rattling tins in
the local cricket ground, while a band played—all on the
holy “ Sawbath.” “ Such entertainments by theatricals
should be held on week days,” said the parson. “ They
are a disturbing element to our people—especially to our
Sunday schools.” Which amounts to a lamentable con-
fession that when the clergy come into competition with
the chorus, the former gets ignominiously left.
The clergyman will never cease
To pray and preach of gentleness.
He shineth as the man of peace
Whose mission ’tis to soothe and bless
The weary wanderer below.
And still the sinner’s not content,
But leaves the man of peace to go
To some “ disturbing element.”
My saintly brother, rest assured
The case has chronic grown by this,
And man will never more be cured
Of his besetting wickedness.
’Tis all in vain to murmur “ Shame ! ”
This has been man’s peculiar bent
Since first to Eden’s garden came
The same “ disturbing element.”
VIC.
S.S.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransoms & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramway Material, Locomotives, Cas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
This current year, of which four months have
passed, N. S. Waies is to have a surplus of £850,896,
according to the Estimates tabled last week. The only
unsatisfactory feature about it is that it will be a bogus
surplus. There are two reasons for saying so—(1) Money'
derived from the sale of lands is included as revenue (the
land-sales money'last year amounted to £1,029,439, or
nearly' 50 per cent, more than the entire estimated sur-
plus) ; (2) the old fraud of charging works up to Loan
account is accompanied by'the moderately'new fraud of
charging other works up to the Public Works Fund, and
paying for them out of the bogus surplus. You put your
money in your right-hand trousers pocket, and call it
revenue. But instead of paying for things out of the
right-hand pocket, you shift the money to the left-hand
pofcket and call it surplus, and pay' for the things out of
it. You might just as well pay for the things
out of the right-hand pocket at once ; it would
save wear and tear of pocket. But Australian State
finance is an enormous piece of make-believe, and the
Treasurer who can discover a new trick is pretty sure of
a good run. This was Carruthers’ trick—the Bogus Sur-
plus trick —and Treasurer Waddell took it over with the
rest of that accomplished political fakir’s stock-in-trade.
For the current year Waddell proposes to make
to the Works Fund a statutory contribution of £347,667
out of his alleged surplus, and to also pay a voluntary
£650,000 out of the same alleged surplus and the other
alleged surplus which he inherited. Together, then, he
proposes to pay, in' round figures, £1,000,000 for works.
Now, if the Works Fund were not a sham, this large pay-
ment ought to cut down the works to be paid for out of
loan money to nothing or thereabouts. As a matter
of fact, however, the Wade Government proposes
to spend no less than £2,237,000 of borrowed money
during the year. Last year the total loan ex-
penditure was £1,233,172. Therefore Wade and Waddell,
though they 7 pretend to be paying for £1,000,000 of works
out of surplus (that is, revenue), estimate that their
works will call for nearly twice as much borrowed money
as was spent last year. A Works Fund that doesn’t re-
duce borrowing is a fraud ; and the Wade-Waddell Works
Fund obviously doesn’t reduce borrowing.
No doubt the Works Fund money will be spent
on works—on repairs, and replacements, and culverts,
and buildings that bring in no revenue, and such like.
But those things ought to be paid for out of revenue ; to
abstain from paying for them out of revenue, and to
claim a surplus because they 7 haven’t been paid for in that
way, is mere trickery. And it is serious trickery 7 when
a remission of taxation is proposed on the strength of the
bogus surplus which it produces. In tins case the
Government intends to make £IOJO instead of £3OO the
minimum for income-tax assessment. This does not
mean merely that people earning up to £lOOO a year will
go free ; it means that people earning upwards of £lOOO
will only pay on their earnings in excess of £lOOO. This,
and'the abolition of stamp duties on cheques, etc., and
the reduction of railway rates, will mean “ remitting re-
venue this year to the aggregate amount of £550,000, and
next year to a much larger amount ” ; and the Fat man
gets nearly all the benefit. These things are said to be
not only possible but actually' demanded on the strength
of the surpluses ; and the surpluses are a fake, wherefore
the remissions are a fraud.
Besides pointing to the large contributions to
the bogus VVorks Fund as a justification for these remis-
sions, Waddell points also to his proposed payments in
reduction of the public debt. The fact is that the State
had a succession of deficits while it was collecting' the
very taxes which Wade and Waddell now propose to
remit, and Parliament obliges them to make small pay-
ments to reduce those deficits. And, anyhow, what a
farce it is to talk of reducing the debt when in the same
speech it is announced that a further debt of £2,237,000
is to be incurred during the year!
The most scandalous feature of Waddell’s
Budget speech, however, was his reference to the earning
capacity of the assets on which the borrowed money has
beenspent. “If,”hesaid, “they 7 capitalised their railways,
tramways, Water and Sewerage Board works. Harbor Trust
works and resumptions at 3$ per cent, on their net returns,
they found that these properties were worth £86,507,000.”
(The public debt at June 30 stood at £85,641,733.) What
sort of a Government is it that, in order to prop up a
policy of further heavy borrowing and tax-remissions,
bases its calculations upon what is admittedly the biggest
boom year on record ? Last year the railways showed a
surplus of £650,422 over working expenses and interest.
But in the 10 y r ears, 1885-1894, they 7 showed a deficit of
£1,760,516, and in the next 10 years they showed net
deficits amounting to £422,761. Up to the present time,
including the money advanced to make good worn-out
rolling stock, etc., they show a total deficit of £4,357,257.
And y 7 et, Waddell takes the unexampled surplus of a
boom year as the basis of his calculations, and dis-
regards the past deficits. Moreover, further destro.y-
ing the value of his own absurd and grossly
misleading calculations, Waddell himself mentions
that rates have been cut down, so that the re-
venue will be reduced by £312,000; so on his own
3$ per cent, basis, he ought to have wiped £8,900,000 off
the capital value. It was as flagrantly improper to base
an argument upon the 1906-7 figures alone as it would be
upon the 1902-3 figures alone. In that financial year
1902-3, a calculation made on the same basis as Waddell has
adopted, would show that the public works and other
undertakings into which loan money has been
put, were worth £43,135,800, or less than one
half the sum arrived at on the boom - year
figures'adopted by Waddell; and in the year after chat
they would have been worth £50,800,450 on the same
basis. On the strength, however, of some grotesque
figures arrived at on the boom basis, Wade and Waddell
propose to launch out on a policy 7 of furious borrowing,
and at the same time, while piling up the bill that is to be
passed on to the next generation, they propose to cut
down still further the bill which they themselves pav.
» * * *
The United Insurance Co., Fire and Marine
(Syd.ey)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1897 £9,951 12$ p.c. = £8,528 £1,423 £89,076
1898 3,722 12$ „ „ 8,528 84,270
1899 7,302 5 „ „ 3,411 3,891 88,161
1900 10,267 10 „ „ 6,823 3,444 91,605
1901 13,809 10 „ „ 6,823 £8560 -- 90,031
1902 23,102 10 „ „ 6,823 16,279 106,310
1903 21,680 12$ „ „ 8,528 212 12,946 119,256
1904 ‘ 21,376 12$ „ „ 8,528 365 12,483 131,739
1905 21,603 12$ „ 9,673 4712 7,218 138,957
1906 20,032 .12$ •„ „ 10,675 9,357 148,314
1907 16,855 12$ „ „ 10,675 6,180 154,494
For two years previous to this last year unexplained
additions were made to the reserve fund ; in 1906 the
amount that thus dropped in without mentioning where
it came from was £2390, and in 1905 it was £4580. There
has been no such addition during the past year. When
these additions in 1905 and 1906 are taken intoaccount, the
fall in the.profits for the past year will be less noticeable.
That is to say, the ordinary insurance business has been
less unsatisfactory'in 1907, compared with what happened
in the previous two years, than the table might suggest.
The accounts are, however, a little confusing this year.
Formerly there was a reserve for unadjusted losses, main-
tained at £6OOO for some years past. This year that
reserve has been wiped out, the amount being added to
the re-insurance reserve ; and the unadjusted losses(£627o)
have been charged up direct to profit and loss. The prac-
tical effect of the change is to increase the receipts by £6OOO
and the outgoings by £6270. But the £6ooomuch more than
covered actual outstanding losses as at October 1, 1906 ;
the directors reported at that time—“ The claims out-
standing and in course of settlement do not exceed
£1200.” In addition, then, to the fire and marine losses
actually paid during the year (£46,080), the losses appear
to have been about £5070 (the difference between the
£l2OO mentioned and the present unadjusted losses).
The accounts, however, don’t disclose the actual outstand-
ing losses on September 30, 1906 ; all that can be as-
sumed from them is that the £6OOO provided to meet
such losses actually represented unadjusted losses. And
going on that basis, this comparison is arrived at :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Kate.
1895 .. £58,499 £32,855 £19,580 56'2 p.c. 33'5 p-c.
1900.. 70,779 38,589 25,296 54-5 „ 35'7 „
1905 .. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47'7 ~ 40'4 „
1906.. 90,792 42,793 37,500 47'1 „ 41'3 „
1907 .. 95,620 46,350 39,822 48'5 „ 41'6 „
But, as mentioned above, the actual loss rate was almost
certainly higher, probably' 53 4 per cent, of net premiums
—a rate which would suggest that, like most others,
this co. has had a bad “marine” year. The co.’s paid
capital is £85,402 ; £2 10s. per share is paid, and there is
a liability of £7 10s. The fine reserves are, however, a
very' substantial guarantee alike for shareholders and
policy-holders. The mean of the invested funds showed
a return of £3 4s. 6d. per cent, for the year. The invest-
ments as at September 30 were cut up in this way :
Deposits, 28 percent. ; debentures (mainly Government)
42 per cent. ; mortgages, 6 per cent ; freeholds, 24 per
cent. On account of the large holdings of public stock
and deposits, a high return is not to be expected ; but £3
4s. 6d. per cent. is. for all that, very low, and “ freehold
property ” may' be responsible for it.
The Australian fire insurance office suffers, like
other Australian industries, from the poor worm who
believes that what isn’t Australian must necessarily be
better. The poor worm doesn’t really know the first
thing about the foreign office—it is sufficient for him
that it is foreign. Now let us get to a comparison on the
basis of hard facts and figures. The annual summary of
the position of the 31 “tariff” British fire offices (com-
prising all the offices of any account) was compiled a few
weeks ago. And from the aggregates we get this com-
parison ;
British United In-
Offices. surance Co.
Proportion of Reserves to Pre-
miums .. 121 - 3 p.c. 155 T p.c.
Proportion of Capital to Pre-
miums 30'9 ~ 89'3 ~
Total .. .. .. 152’2 p.c. 244 - 4 p.c.
The risks can fairly be measured by the amount of pre-
miums ; therefore the British offices (which are far ahead
of other foreign offices, as a rule) have provided funds to
the extent of £152 4s. to meet the same risks for which
this t.vpical Australian office has funds to the amount of
£244 Bs.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne) had an original paid capital of £37,500 ; but,
by transferring profits to capital instead of paying them
away in divideiids, the capital has now been increased to
£lOO,OOO. In the following, the dividends are calculated
on the £37,500 originally paid :
Total
Added Capital
Dividendson Written to Re- andße-
Sept., Profits. £37,500. Off. serves. serves.
1897.. £8,848 6p.c. = £2,250 £lOOO £5,598 £56,127
Loss.
1898.. 3,986 Nil 52,141
Profits.
1899.. 18,922 8 p.c. = 3,000 2000 13,922 66,063
1900.. 16,184 8 „ „ 3,000 2000 11,184 77,247-
1901.. 27,789 10.1 ~ „ 4,000 23,789 101,036
1902.. 25,059 13$ „ „ 6,000 20,059 121,095
1903.. 27,453 16 „ „ 6,000 21,453 142,548
1904.. 36,579 21$ „ „ 8,000 28,579 171,127
1905.. 26,069 32 „ ~ 12,000 14,069 185,196
1906.. 45,886 54f „ „ 20,500 25,386 210,582
1907.. 31,572 54§,, „ 20,500 11,072 221,654
This is another way of presenting the same and some
other results :
Profits
Capitalised Total Divi-
during year. Capital. dend. Reserves.
1900 .. Nil £37,500 8 p.c. £39,747
1901 .. £12,500 50,000 8 ~ 51,036
1902 .. 7,500 57,500 8 „ 63,595
1903 .. 7,500 65,000 8 „ 77,548
1904 .. 35,000 100,000 8 „ 71,127
1905 .. Nil 100,000 12 „ 85,196
1906 .. Nil 100,000 20$ ~ 110,582
1907 .. Nil 100,000 20$ „ 121,654
Of recent years the co. has had a remarkably successful
career, and, though its dividends are now something
more than substantial, it deserves -success because for a
long while it kept its dividend at 6 or 8 per cent, though
that meant putting to reserve three times as much as it
distributed. Even now, though the dividend is over 20 per
cent, on the basis of the £lOO,OOO of capital, it is no more
than 9 per cent, on capital and reserves combined.
The present lay-by is, however, much less in propor-
tion to profits than the old lay-by' was. It is
quite possible, no doubt, that in the past year the co. had
particularly heavy marine losses, like most other cos. ;
on the other hand, it is equally possible that a good deal
of the gilt is off the gingerbread in the accident insurance
department. This co. got early’ to work in that very
profitable branch of the underwriting business, and culti-
vated the field very energetically when there were fewer
to reap the harvest than there are to-day.
The rapid progress of the Colonial Mutual is
further illustrated by these comparisons
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £61,683 £29,526 £24,423 47'9p.c. 39'6p.c.
1900 .. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51'5 „ 33'7 „
1905 .. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45'0 „ 40'8 „
1906 .. 148,011 52,367 57,712 35'4 „ 38'9 „
1907 .. 156,990 72,829 61,343 46'4 „ 39'0 „
The higher expense rate of the last year or two compared
with 1900 is probably due in part to an extension of the
more expensively' conducted accident and guarantee
business since that date. On September 30 the assets of
all kinds totalled £254,553, distributed in this way:—
Public securities 39 per cent., fixed deposits and cash 30
per cent., real estate 17 per cent., shares and debentures
9 per cent., book debts, etc., 5 per cent. It is impossible
to separate the investments from working capital, but
apparently the invested funds averaged about £3 18s. per
cent., which is satisfactory considering the very large
proportion of public stocks and bank deposits.
* * * -jr
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (Sydney):—
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Mar., 1902..£100,199 10 p.c. = £99,776 £423 £421,494
Sept., 1902.. 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
Mar., 1903.. 100,298 10 „ ~100,000 298 422,185
Sept., 1903.. 100,316 10 „ ~100,000 316 422,501
Mar., 1904.. 100,412 10 „ ~ 100,000 412 422,913
Sept., 1904.. 105,111 10 „ ~104,608 503 423,416
Mar., 1905.. 155,322 15 „ ~164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905.. 112,343 10 „ ~109,965 2378 416,411
Mar., 1906.. 112,042 10 „ ~110,000 2042 418,453
Sept., 1906.. 111,679 10 „ ~110,000 1679 420,132
Mar., 1907.. 110,827 10 „ ~110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907.. 118,057 10 „ ~ 110,000 8057 429,016
During the half-year this co. purchased the Poolman re-
fineries, which had been its only competitors in the
southern States ; and for, that purpose the capital is being
further increased from £2,200,000 to £2,300,000. The pre-
sent accounts do not, however, show this change in the
capital, though the profit has moved up a few thousands
by way of preparation for the increased total that the divi-
dend will call for in six months’ time. For that is the
way with this co. Within limits it can make the dis-
closed profits what it pleases—or what the directors
please. When they wanted to “ mark the jubilee ” by a
special distribution, up sprang the profits £50,000. The
fact, of course, was that the secret reserves, built up out
of profits that had been made and never mentioned, had
grown rather cumbersome, and the special jubilee bonus
was a handy way of reducing the stock of surplus coin.
With refineries, mills, rolling stock, etc., having a book
value of £2,489,743, a few odd thousands can be easily-
adjusted by rather more, or rather less, liberal
writing down than usual. Any one half-year’s
figures are, therefore, not worth much, taken
separately. Precisely . what was paid for the
Poolman properties has not been disclosed; but all that
has been added net to the book value Of all fixed invest-
ments (works, etc.) in the six months is £38,296. Either
the business is much more profitable than it was, or
the fixed investments have been written down very hard,
so that they are probably worth much more than they
stand at in the books ; which of the two it is, is not clear,
but the steady increase in profit earned per cent, of fixed
investments proves that it is one or both. For the past
six months the earnings on the basis of these invest-
ments, without deducting the half-million depreciation
fund which is a fixture, was about £7 19s. per cent, per
annum ; in 1890 it was only £6 7s. 3d. per cent. ; in 1900,
£6 12s. 2d. per cent. Since 1890, by the way, the paid
capital has been more than trebled ; and a co. that can
pay so easy a 10 per cent, on all that new capital has got
hold of something better than a copper-mine.
* * *
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building Society
(Sydney):— .
Owing
Business Depreciation Nominal to De-
Sept., Profits. Written Off. Reserves. positors.
1898 .. £3385 £3500 £262 £110,891
1899 .. 2617 2600 279 105,438
1900 .. 2985 3000 264 98,626
1901 .. 2473 2500 237 93,556
1902 .. 3544 3500 281 89,820
1903 .. 3341 3500 122 85,436
1904 .. 3496 3500 118 82,049
1905 .. 3601 ' 3500 219 78,596
1906 .. 3575 3500 294 75,543
Assets written up £28,588 ; which amount
was transferred to capital
1907 .. 3978 4,00 272 73,218
Originally the shares were £lO paid. In 1892 the society,
having' at the time £330,000 of debts, was compelled to
suspend. As usual, the size of the smash was under-
estimated, and only £2 10's. per share was wiped off ; but
two years later a further £4 10s. per share went. At
the same time the interest on deposits was reduced from
5 per cent, to 3 per cent. Helped by that, by careful
nursing, and by the complete suspension of dividends, the
society- got into such a condition that a few months ago
it decided to have another thorough overhaul. The re-
sult is shown above. Properties were written up so as
to make the paid capital £6 instead of £3 per share ; but
£4OOO was written off for safety, and the amount was
made good again out of the year’s profits. This process
of writing-up isn’t one to be in general recommended ;
but in this case the purpose is obvious : under a bill
passed last session this society' and others in the same
position are permitted to resume ordinary building-
society business, and when deposits are being sought a
paid capital of £57,175 looks a deal better than one of
£28,588. And, anyhow, in the past 10 years £33,100 has
been written off out of profits (that is independent of
what had been written off out of capital), so that the
writing-up to the extent of £28,588 has more justification
tliaii writing-up generally has. Interest and rent, after
paying repairs and rates, last year yielded £5 14s. Bd.
percent, on the written-up value ; but repairs' cost less
than usual during the year. And where properties have
been nursed for many years the chances are that a large
proportion of them are old, and the rental return is,
therefore, misleading as a basis for estimating their
capital value. The directors “do not say that the pro-
perties could readily be sold at their (new) valuation,
but they are well worth it to the society as income-pro-
ducing assets.” The trouble, however, is that the old
deposits have to be paid off at the rate of about £3750 a
year, so there will have to be some realisation of assets,
or the profits will have to go to pay off the old depositors,
or new deposits will have to be used for the purpose ;
and it would certainly be a wrong policy to have new
deposits represented by assets that could not be sold at
their valuation. However, the society has made a good
recovery, very- largely as a result of its own patience,
and its forbearance in the matter of dividends, and it
deserves the kindly word, if that sort of word will send
business its way.
* * * *
The Illawarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N.S.W.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1902 .. £2392 Sf p.c. =£2490 £26,403
Sept., 1902 .. 2508 8J „ „ 2490 £lB 26,421
Mar., 1903 .. 3060 8$ „ „ 2490 - 570 26,991
Sept., 1903 .. 2319 8J „ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904 .. 2692 8| „ „ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904 .. 2192 8J ~ „ 2490 26,724
Profit on sale of wharf (£21,051)
capitalised ; £3847 of reserves
capitalised ; £15,377 reserves
written off. Capital thus raised
from £49,797 to £74,695, leaving 7,500
Mar., 1905 .. 3562 7 p.c.= 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905 .. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906 .. 3062 7 „ „ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 „ ~ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907 .. 3348 7 „ „ 2625 723 9,545
Sept., 1907 .. 2628 7 „ „ 2625 3 9,548
Besides the reserves shown above, the co. has a repairs,
suspense and contingency account, £2657, which may be
wholly or in part a reserve. Of the reserves shown in the
table £9267 is an insurance fund, and that is not the best
sort of reserve ; it is really ari accumulation of premiums
to cover risks still in existence. The co.’s profit and loss
account shows a profit of £2360 for the half-year : that
is, “ after providing for depreciation and insurance, etc.,”
and the balance sheet shows an addition of £268 to the
insurance fund. That, however, is a net addition ; the
revenue may have supplied a much larger gross addition,
but the amount in excess of £268 may have been absorbed
to cover losses. What depreciation has been provided is
uncertain. Still, one of the lines in this comparison may
suggest something
March, Sept., March, Sept.,
1905. 1906. 1907. 1907.
Capital £74,695 £75,000 £75,000 £75,000
Debts to public .. .. 1,165 1,683 1,845 4,042
Ship property .. .. 40,393 43,488 40,376 39,786
Cash, Treasury bills, etc. 42,235 39,732 43,515 43,148
Other assets .. .. 6,295 7,567 7,782 10,938
Apart from “new steamship account,” ship property'
stands at £39,700 as against £40,376 six months ago, so
there has been a writing-down apparently of £670 out of
undisclosed profits, and those profits have also paid for
any additions that may have been made to the old
vessels. “Other assets” include £3323 “ S.S. Moruya
insurance adjustment account,” an amount received
apparently on account of damage done to that vessel ;
and judging from the appearance of the item in that
form in the balance-sheet, apparently' the repairs to the
vessel have been paid out of revenue also. If not, the
insurance would be merely a set-off to the damage, and
would not appear in the balance-sheet. The capital is
£75,000 ; reserves (including fund for repairs, etc.) total
£12,205, making shareholders’ funds £87,205. And, after
providing for current dividend, £40,523 remains in cash,
Treasury bills, and deposits ; so the co. has nearly half
its funds in gilt-edged investments and less than half in
shipping. In the past 12 months shareholders’ funds
have shown a profit of a shade over 7 per cent. ; and in
the circumstances mentioned, that must be regarded as
remarkably good.
* * * *
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co.
(Sydney), which began with a deficit representing good-
will in a “ mutual medical benefit society ” :
Expenses Total
and Divi- Out-
Aug., Income. Claims, dends. goings. Deficit.
1897.. £8,611 £3966 £3796 £7,762 £2,651
1898.. 11,670 6173 4646 10,819 1,800
1899.. 11,782 5935 4674 10,609 627
Assurance
Fund.
1900.. 11,544 5164 4737 9,901 1,016
1901.. 12,255 5517 5933 11,450 1,821
1902.. 12,566 5019 6537 11,556 2,831
1903.. 12,684 4484 6706 11,190 4,326
1904.. 13,425 5273 6689 11,962 5,788
1905.. 13,956 5467 7081 12,548 7,196
1900.. 14,738 5871 7060 12,931 9,003
1907.. 15,919 6291 7401 13,692 11,230
This co. supplies insurance mostly of the fourpence-a-
fortnight sort—very necessary insurance, but very
costly. Its tables exhaust most of the alphabet, and
cover accident and children’s assurance, medical benefits,
and undertakers’ bills. It runs an ordinary insurance
department, too ; but even the ordinary policies only
average about £49 each. Under these circumstances ex-
penses are, of course, very heavy. Lumping together all
classes of business, as the co. does in its accounts, the
expenses have borne the following proportion to total
income :
1900 £4l 0 8 per cent. I 1904 £49 16 6 per cent.
1901 48 8 3 „ I 1905 50 14 9 „
1902 52 0 5 „ I 1906 47 18 0 „
1908 52 17 5 „ | 1907 46 9 9 „
Apparently the reduction of the rate during the last few
years is due to a larger proportion of the business being
in the “ordinary insurance” branch. The “loading”
for expenses provided in this branch amounts to an
average of 23'3 per cent, of the premiums ; and it is very
doubtful whether the work can be done for the money.
If it can’t there are only two sources to draw upon : the
industrial branch may be paying some of the “ordinary ”
expenses as well as its own ; or the ordinary branch’s
own reserves may be drawn upon. Actuary E. M. Moors,
however, values the liabilities under policies, and declares
that there is a surplus. And that is quite possible,
seeing that some of the industrial branch “ loading ”
amounts to no less than 55 per cent. —that is to say, in
fixing the premiums, it is calculated that 11s. of the
money will go in expenses and 9s. in benefits. The M.L.A.
policy-holders are going to have their insurance business
done at a cost of Is. 6d. in the £, and then
share in the profits. But these poor little fourpence-a-
fortnight policy-holders are reckoned on to pay Us. in
the £ for their insurance. It is simply another illustra-
tion of the fact that the little man’s penny won’t buy the
same penn’orth as the big man’s. Also, it is another
illustration of the need to organise these things—call it
Socialism or what you like —in order to prevent some of
the present appalling waste.
Universal Land and Deposit Bank (Sydney):
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902 £4471 6 per cent. = £204 £4267 £5989
Dec., 1902 456 6 „ „ „ 206 250 6239
June, 1903 2552 42 „ „ „ 1442 HlO 7349
Dec., 1903 385 6 ~ „ „ 205 ISO 7529
June, 1904 445 6 „ „ „ 205 240 7769
Dec., 1904 522 6 „ „ „ 205 317 8086
Loss.
June, 1905 240 6 „ „ „ 205 7641
Dec., 1905 115 6 „ „ „ 205 7321
Profit.
June, 1906 90 6 „ „ „ 205 7206
Loss.
Dec., 1906 2289 62 ~ ~ „ 2061 2856
June, 1907 82 2774
This co., more often known as “Broughton’s Co.” than
as the Universal Land, etc., buys land by the acre and
sells it by the foot, mostly on time-payment. Part
of its reserves consists of a contingent fund to provide
against possible losses on the time-payment bargains.
Latterly the drafts on this fund have been large, no
doubt because there has been practically none of the ex-
pected boom in suburban lands. For the same reason,
probably, the Co. towards the end of last year had to write
down the value of estates in hand ; also, as the prospects
hadn’t turned out too well for the land-subdivisionist,
£2061 was paid out early this year, rather by way of a
division of surplus funds than as dividend. For the last
half-year the profit on current business is set down at
£72 ; but £154 had to come off the contingent fund, to
provide for losses on former sales, which left the net loss
of £B2 shown above.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Loan, Guarantee and Finance
Co. (Hobart): —
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902 £419 5 per cent. =£394 £25 £2711
Sept., 1902 398 5 ~ „ 394 4 2715
Mar., 1903 { 4 " 4 Written Off, £872* >94 } 18 ' 3
Sept., 1903 490 5 per cent. = 394 96 1969
Mar., 1904 530 5 ~ „ 397 133 2102
Sept., 1904 541 5 „ „ 399 142 2244
Mar., 1905 529 5 „ ~ 399 130 2374
Sept., 1905 557 5 „ ~ 399 158 2532
Mar., 1906 664 5 ~ „ 399 165 2697
Sept., 1906 625 5 „ „ 399 226 2923
Mar., 1907 597 5 „ „ 399 198 3121
Sept., 1907 574 6$ ~ „ 505 69 3190
The extra payment at the rate of 1$ per cent, is by way
of a bonus. Of the reserves £l4OO has been a depreciation
fund ; andithas beendecided that that amount is in excess
of reasonable requirements, so £7OO of it has been trans-
ferred to ordinary reserve. This revaluation probably
has something' to do with the bonus. Practically all the
assets are lumped—“ Loans on mortgage and other
securities and other amounts, £33,024.” Against that,
besides capital, there stand liabilities (deposits chiefly)
amounting to £14,764. For a co. with debts of that size
the liquid assets look absurdly small. But the co. lias
the lumping habit so badly that nothing very definite
can be ascertained, and the co.’s policy may really not be
the risky one that it looks.
* * * *
No Broken Hill mine has lately come into such
strong favor as the South. It got an ore body 370 ft. wide
at its deepest level, and that and its 4s. quarterly divi-
dends dazzled the public. Unfortunately for the public
the dazzling happened when the metal markets were
booming, and when the share markets reflected the boom.
Even those who bought at the top may get their money
back, perhaps with interest; but that is poor consolation
when by holding off for a few months they could have got
exactly the same shares, carrying the same dividends, for
£3 12s. 6d. instead of the £8 3s. reached in December.
Last half-year (to June 30) the South’s profit
and loss account showed a gross profit of £104,526; but
that allows nothing- for wear and tear. The concentrates
contained 11,118 tons lead, so the gross profit equalled
£9 Bs. Od. per ton of lead. Lead averaged £l9 17s. Id. ;
therefore, costs ran to £lO 9s. Id. per ton of lead
plus all the silver. Silver averaged 2s. 9sd. per oz.
Present price is about 2s. 6d. If silver had averaged only
2s. 6d. last half-year, the profit per ton of lead would
have been reduced to £9 os. 9d., leaving the balance
(£lO 16s. 4d.) to represent the costs. In the previous
half-year the costs amounted to £9 14s. Bd. per ton of
lead, with silver at 2s. lOd. Reducing the silver to the
half-crown basis, lead could have been produced in that
half-year for £lO 3s. Id. per ton. As prosperity
increases, so do costs, which explains why big mines like
this can pull through in times of depression. Four years
ago, in the first half of 1903, this co. produced lead for
£9 3s. sd. per ton, plus the value of the silver, and silver
was only 2s. Id. per oz. then. Putting silver up to 2s. 6d.,
the costs at that time, stated per ton of lead, were only
£8 9s. 6d.—very different figures from the present
£lO 16s. 4d., calculated on the same basis. Still, the
comparison is not quite fair. Four years ago, some old
concentrates (which only cost about Is. per ton to deliver
at the mill) were re-treated, and that reduced costs.
With silver at 2s. 6d., then, costs on the most
recent figures of the B. H. South have been between
£lO 3s. Id. and £lO 16s. 4d. per ton of lead, without pro-
viding for wear and tear or any capital expenditure. The
profits for the past half-year also include about £lO,OOO
received for zinc-bearing tailings ; but those receipts are
likely to continue. The output of ore has been 4000 tons
per week ; but the new mill, which will be ready about
next April, was planned to increase the output to 6000
tons per week. (At that rate there is 10 years’ ore de-
veloped above the 970 ft. level.) The trouble is that the
increase in output will not improve the lead market, and
that is the great factor in determining the co.’s profits.
Assuming (1) an output of 6000 tons per week, (2) costs
at £lO 10s. per ton of lead (the average for the past year),
and (3) that the ore remains of the same quality as last
year, and that the same extraction is made, then these
profits would be earned in a year at various metal
prices:—
Profit per
Lead. Silver. Total Profit. Share.
s. d. s. d.
£lO 10 0 2 6 Nil Nil
12 0 0 2 6 £51,090 5 1
14 0 0 26 119,210 11 10
16 0 0 2 6 187,330 18 8
18 0 0 2 6 255,450 25 4
A movement of 3d. for silver means, on this output,
about £BOOO per year difference in profits. Costs have
certainly been high during the past year ; but as against
that it has to be reme nbered that in the foregoing no
allowance has been made for depreciation or capital
expenditure, and the life of a concentrating mill can
hardly be set down at more than seven years—probably


Strength and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your BanKers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
2, 4 & 6 SPRING ST.,
SYDNEY.
I he Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on'a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances!*
* * * #
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
One set of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, is at present being constructed for the Berry United
Gold Mines, to the order of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing and
Company. The set will consist of 3 lifts, each of 200 ft.,
the total lift being 600 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in
diameter and 10ft. stroke, and the discharge 2,500,000
gallons per day. The valve boxes are made in separate
pieces, instead of forming part of one H piece, and the
valves are of the compound flap type. The total weight
is 110 tons. The Austral Otis Engineering Company have
this work in hand. This Company has constructed and
erected most of the big volume, deep alluvial plants now
working in Victoria.
* * » *
The Journal of Commerce (Liverpool) in its
issue of 4th September, 1906, wrote regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited“ In
these days of severe competition when some of the best
known offices find the fight for new business so hard as
to justify them in seeking absorption, it is refreshing to
come across an institution which manages each year to
add to its productiveness.”*
• * * «
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S. W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * •
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said “It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the*e was not £lO of
extras ”*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd. , have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• • » *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Coluson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with-Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
LOHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables.
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, industrial and Eleotrical Maohlnery and Materials of all kinds.
not that much. Also it has to be remembered that the
“profit” set out above is not true profit, seeing that in
earning it the mine will be exhausted. What sinking
fund ought to be provided depends of course on the life
of the mine, and that nobody knows. As said before,
with the output (6000 tons a week) figured on above,
there is 10 years’ ore developed above the 970 ft. level.
* * * *
Now that the Junction North, Broken Hill,
has its new electric pump, work should very soon be
resumed at the 1137 ft. level. Inferentially, the mill should
shortly be working up to its full capacity. There are three
working places on the 1137 ft. where operations can be
started immediately, and if advantage is taken of these,
there is no need for the mill to be short of ore. But as to
whether the mill will be able to deal with that ore when
it comes along, opinions differ. Rhodonite, it is to be
feared, will still form a percentage of the “dirt” sent
up from below, and as this unyielding substance has up
to now broken every breakable part of the Gates
cracker used for pounding the ore before it goes to
the mill bins, it is probable that the mine’s
troubles are not all over yet. Breakages mean a prolific
source of delay in mill work, and consequent irregular
returns. Still the mill shows an improvement of late,
the extraction being consistently better than it was some
time back.
» * * *
Broken Hill British is assured of a good length
of eastern vein in Block 15, although going south from
the 800 ft. crosscut in Blackwood’s section the vein seems
pretty hard to follow in the drive. It has been carried
for a long way on the west side of the north drive which
is being put out to connect Thompson’s with Howell’s
shafts on the 800 ft. level, and though a bit irregular,
appears to carry good ore. This body will probablv per-
sist through Thompson’s section, and, the management
hopes, prove to be the source of the ore tapped by the
diamond drill at various points between Thompson’s
shaft and Marsh’s.
* * TV *
The threat of the directors of the New White
Leads, Broken Hill, to erect a concentrating plant was
not all bluff. The step was actually decided on at a meet-
ing held the other day in Melbourne. But where they
are going to get the ore to keep the mill going for any
length of time hasn’t transpired. What ore bodies have
been proved are mostly mullock, with a large percentage
of zinc and pyrites. The western crosscut recently put
in on the 400 ft. level didn’t prove anything except that the
ore there was about the same as in the east crosscut-
bunchy, with plenty of zinc. If a trench were put
through the surface dump, its average assay wouldn’t be
high enough to pay for concentrating with lead at under
£lB a ton. A more sensible move is the sinking of the
shaft. If they get better ore at the 500 ft. level it will be
plenty of time to think about a mill.
* * * *
Growl Creek-Shuttleton (N.S.W.), which was
knocked out by a demand to pay up £BOO overdrawn on
copper shipments when the market slumped, proposes to
reconstruct as the Mouramba Mines. The scheme is all
right for the men who can play the game of backup-or-
forfeit; but it is mighty awkward for weak little holders.
Of the 150,000 shares in the new co. 75,000 are offered to
present holders at 2s. ; 37,500 bonus shares will be issued
to the applicants ; and for those who can’t, as well as
those who can, put up the 25., there are 37,500 shares—
one for every four now held. But the first-mentioned
75,000 shares are preferential, and must get 2s. in divs.
before the others take a bite. Even if they have to make
some sacrifice, shareholders ought now to hang on.
In spite of the daily-paper yarns of abundance
of ore, Blayney (N.S.W.) smelters, as this paper expected,
have had to shut up for want of something to smelt.
* * * *
“A Pitt-street miner” is accused by the S. M.
Herald of making a rough calculation of Mt. David’s ore
reserves, to the detriment of the show. The tonnage
even including the ore between the winzes below the
level they are stoping, doesn’t amount to much for such
a big co., no matter who makes the estimate. Neverthe-
less, Mt. David certainly never had a better shoot
of ore than this one, and 18dw't. per ton has
left old records miles behind, with the exception
of some small crushings taken out by Crozier
the prospector. It is too optimistic, though, to
expect such a high average yield to continue, and that is
evidently the view the market takes; and the fact that
such a k.rge proportion of the stone that will be required
to supply the mill for, say, a year has yet to be developed
increases the pessimism with which investors naturally
view a mine with such a long record of calls.
* * ■* *
The Lone Hand for November measures up
Australia’s mineral wealth and production with the help
of some new standards. For instance: “We talk of a
man who is worth his weight in gold. Leaving gentlemen
Of the weight in the community of G. H. Reid and Thos.
Bent out of the case, and taking instead the average
citizen of 10st. 71b., enough fine gold has been produced
t 0 'lbu an ami -7 of 52 > 000 such men ; and then there
would be enough left over to provide every private of
them with a few ounces of real gold braid.”
* * * *
Some more money has been found to work
Bayley’s, at Coolgardie (W. A.). A new co. with a nomi-
nal capital of £50,000, in 200,000 shares of ss. each, has
been registered in London ; but as the vendor (in this
case a second-hand machinery corporation) takes 80,000
as its cut, only 120,000 rank as contributing. The vendor
corporation has agreed to supply all plant'required, and
to accept payment from the proceeds of gold won, so the
whole of the money subscribed minus flotation expenses
will be available for working capital. Still the mine is
never likely to make money for shareholders, in spite of
the concession. What will probably happen is this : The
capital will be spent in getting a little payable ore, the
proceeds from same will go to the aforesaid corporation
in part, or whole, payment for plant, and then the
shutters will be put up again.
* * * *
Ivanhoe east lode (W. A.) averages 465. per ton
for 26ft. in the crosscut at the 1669 ft. level. As a re-
sult of the westerly slide, the ore has now been carried
about 100 ft. clear of the eastern or Boulder boundary
These slides occur every 150 ft. or so in depth, and an
important feature about them is that they prevent the
lode (which up to date has been the main source of ore
supplies) from going east into Boulder ground.
* * * ■*
Great Boulder No. 1 Co. (W.A.) is getting
ready to instal a mill and other plant on the St. George
leases at Magnet. In March last the ore reserves blocked
out above the 90ft. level were estimated at 28,000 tons of 40s.
grade. Since then operations have been confined to shaft-
sinking, and no more ore has been developed. As already
pointed out, the great width of the lode at 90ft. augurs
well for permanency; but until permanency has been
actually established the shares are a pure speculation.
This paper said in June last that a drop to 605.,
or thereabouts, in the grade of the ore treated at the
Associated Northern (W.A.) was inevitable before the end
of the year, and such a drop is about to take place. Later
on the grade will probably be brought down to about 505.,
and kept at that figure as long as the mine can stand it,
which, as far as can be judged at present, should be about
two years.
* * * »
Mararoa (W.A.) is still being kept well before
the public. Nearly every other day some newspaper
announcement is made that values are getting richer
in depth, or that the shares are bound to go
to a high premium before long. There is only
one way to get at the true value of this mine, and that is
to find out what grade can be kept up when the whole
plant is in operation, and what profit can be earned.
This piece of information would be worth more than all
the rest, and it is up to the management to supply it.
Westralia Mt. Morgans Co. (W.A. ) seems to
prefer darkness to light. No information is available as
to how much ore is going through the mill, what quantity
of gold is being won, or how much it costs to get the gold.
Anyone who wants to know these things must go to the
management and ask it as a favor, and the chances are
that he will not get it. As for newspaper reporters, they
are sooled off at sight. It is alleged that a monthly profit
of £3OOO or so is now being earned, but perhaps only
mining and milling costs are reckoned, the cost of the
development of the ore being ignored. This is quite a
common practice in the West.
* * * «
Ida H. (W.A.) shows improved prospects at
depth. Expenditure on new plant and development is
somewhat heavy, but, despite this burden, the co.
manages to show a monthly profit of £6OO to £9OO. The
new shoot met with some months ago at the No. 6 level
has opened up well, and preparations are now being made
to work it in deeper ground. The shares, however, still
rank as a gamble.
* • * *
Chairman Harper prepared shareholders for the
worst at the Golden Pole (W.A.) meeting. After making
the belated announcement that the north crosscourse
had shortened the shoot still further, he wound up by
stating that if values did not improve in depth (his
lugubrious air gave the impression that they wouldn’t)
the mine would be let on tribute. The meeting only
lasted a few minutes, and everyone wore a sad expression
at the finish. The co. has about £7OOO in hand, and a
tight hold will probably be kept on this sum in case a
suitable property is placed on offer.
* * * *
The Ora Banda district, near Broad Arrow
(W.A.), is again being worked. Some years ago it 'was
tried and found unprofitable, but latterly it has been,
making a bit of a name for itself as a gold-producer in
shallow ground. So far, nothing has been done in depth,
and, judging by appearances, that is where the pinch is
likely to be felt.
* * * *
The old trouble with regard to the powers of
mining wardens is again up for consideration in the West,
and it is proposed by the Government to make a warden’s
recommendation, which is now subject to veto by the
Minister, a decision equivalent to a verdict. It is in-
tended, however, to create an Appeal Board composed of,
the Minister, Under-Secretary, and a resident magistrate.
* * * *
This is the record of Barrambie Ranges (W.A.),
whose shares went to over 40s. on reports that the mine'
was as full of 3oz. dirt as a pawnshop’s window is full of
pledges : £4582 placed to credit of co. ; £12,000 raised
by sale of new and reserve shares; £4900 premium ’
obtained on reserve shares ; £12,900 gold won. Dividend,
£l3OO. Thus, after some £32,000 has gone into the mine’
shareholders have got a single tanner per share back.
There is about as much cash now in the safe as the co.
distributed in dividend. The co.’s crushing record for
six months is 2159 tons for 26240 z. The 3oz. dirt is thus
still missing. There is the same old story in the directors’
chatter about miners’ peculations. Because two men were
caught, that does not prove that the co.’s shortage in the
estimate was due to thieving. The directors should let
the past in respect to gold-stealing die ;if they don’t they
can’t expect the absurd 3oz. estimate will be forgotten.
It is whispered that the co.’s best development for the
half-year is the getting of water in the well. If the water
means extra crushing and regular divs., all right. Other-
wise the statement is an admission that mining work is
below expectations. Now the 200 ft. level has to demon-
strate that gold lives down, and that there is enough
stone in the mine to return even the present modest
market value of shares.
* * * * .
Ravensthorpe (W.A.) has been given a lift by
the local inspector of mines. He sees no justification for
the report that the leading mines have gone to pieces in
depth, and says that, as most of them are in the initial
stages of development, it is too early to give a
definite opinion as to how they are likely to turn
out in deeper ground. The Mt. Oatlin, which is the most
advanced of the lot, is, however, said to have opened up
well down to 300 ft., where an Bft. lode has been exposed
for a length of over 200 ft. The heavy fall in copper is the
reason assigned by the inspector for the heavy set-back
which the district has received, and in his opinion the
Kaufman and other crowds are doing the right thing in
curtailing operations pending railway communication
with the coast. Experiments in the concentration of
lower-grade sulphides are now being conducted by the
Kaufman people.
* * * *
J. Bull had better act cautiously with regard to
the Northampton lead mines (W.A.). Worked many
years ago—as far back as the ’so’s—these properties have
produced lead to the value of over half-a-million sterling,
but in the days when they did well, the standard of living
was poor, the rate of wages was low, and the wool ships
were glad to take the ore for “stiffening.” Things may,
it is true, be all right while the lead market is strong ;
but present prices can’t reasonably be expected to last.
And the mines can’t take advantage of the present prices
to any extent, because nearly all the mines are full of
water. J. W. Sutherland, of the Golden Horseshoe, spent
some time and money getting the water out of one pro-
perty, but after having a look below he allowed the work-
ings to flood again. This speaks for itself.
Now that the Melbourne crowd which took up
the Wheal Ellen (W.A.) has laid bare its innocence, it is
well to ask what purpose such people serve to mining.
They were a receptive lot of simpletons, who bought a
mine on a few specimens and the story of past rich-
ness. There was no prospectus, no preliminary report, no
inspection. All this is admitted, yet there is talk about
making a shilling call to raise more good monev to send
after bad by undertaking a lawsuit. What for?’CEn they
think that any jury will resist the thought that in the
hurry to get rich they neglected ordinary business pru-
dence, and so fell in ? The specimens shown told plainly
that the vendors were off the gold ; for if stone like that
was in the face, no miner would leave it to accept a
modest cash return out of the sale of the mine. The
best thing the shareholders can do is to write the loss off
with the determination to go slow when more specimens
are thrust under their nose.
* « * *
Mulrooney is a man of peace, so he did not accept
the invitation of his legal manager, Bell, and wade into
one Sharp for telling him, the other day at Ballarat, that
his sampling of the Nuggety Ajax had been lax, as well
as for inferentially suggesting worse things. As Mul-
rooney is a man of peace and a good fellow. The Bulletin
doesn’t mind also telling him that, while it cannot en-
dorse all the adverse criticism, still his management of
the mine deserved review. Mulrooney cannot be expected
to see beyond the fioint of the pick ; but the trouble is
that where the pick has been the stone has not
come up to what reports indicated. Therefore Mul-
rooney stands as a mark for those who took
shares up to 30s. and now see them at a crown.
There is no romance about the Nuggety Ajax now that
it has got down to hard battery work. Mulrooney says
that the gold did not get beyond the drives. If so, there is a
very stiff hill to climb, with a few calls by the wayside.
Ballarat meantime cannot make up its mind whether
Sharp, as a non-registered shareholder, had a right to
talk at the meeting. Legally he had no locus standi;
morally he had, and as he voiced a lot of what other
people have been thinking, he cannot be voted altogether
a public nuisance.
* * » *
Another Victorian deep-lead wheeze from Lon-
don. This concerns the Loddon Deep Leads, up near
Talbot, of which Reginald Murray once thought a lot
and which he also managed. One Holloway (who mi<dit
be the pill man from the way in which he asks us°to
swallow things) is the chairman of the co. He recently-
visited the mine, and now he tells the world that “the
people in Victoria know the value of the Loddon Deep
Leads, and they treated me with the deference due to the
chairmanship of such an important concern.” What has
Victoria done to deserve this ! On reading over the speech
it is hard to say whether it is vanity or foolishness that
wags Holloway’s tongue. If he knew the mere
rudiments of deep-lead mining, he would realise
ness V wLJ t ’ Sav ? by diBhin ». «■ foolish-
) vould k now, further, that the samples
tell what will be found when
that rn be done ’ Aixwe a u > he would know
wide and fnn pt u° e ? tlmate the worth of a gutter 300 ft.
Loddonl iodl f lle ® lo , n - f u rol n the bio of work done at the
Z" L t 8 18 a ta , sk , Ulat no deep-lead miner would
- f T ! ™'k r ht be some excuse for Holloway had
fiasco rn<f ted « e Loddon Valle y at Moolort, and seen the
of hk t e n 6 ' f How ?. ver > the Public can {range the breadth
InM t r ? m the assertion that the Loddon Valiev
not in have got more than £BOOO as a State advance had
wot.id Australian press thought that, if an English co.
would not work the claim, there were plenty of people in
Australia who would do so. That is a perversion, and
dismissed^* nS the lest of Hollo "’ay’s speech can be
Star of the West Extended, Kevington (Vic.),
is as Pretty and as perky as a healthy pink baby. In the
aim past the claim may have paid a div., but' that is so
long ago that the oldest inhabitant isn’t quite sure on
P°u u > any more than lie is as to what limbo
holds the btar of the West, on which the local
boom started. ’Tis said that during the past
six months a lot of ‘prospecting work has been
® ari| ed out at the Extended. True ; otherwise it is
hardly likely that the ground could have been held. But
all that has come out of this work is the usual “ favorable
indications.” The Derby line, it is said, looks well
mineralised and promising, and operations are being con-
tinued there. But there is just as much chance of the
public picking the winner in a maiden field as there is of
the Kevington shoots of stone turning* into decent
bodies. They are too short and too patchy. Under the
circumstances, instead of backing Kevington, the Mel-
bourne public has preferred to try a long shot at an out-
sider for the Cup.
* * * „
A becoming air of caution pervades the remarks
of J. Pennington, manager of the Briseis Extended (Tas.),
when dealing with his somewhat dubious show. He
pledges himself to two more good runs from the present
cut in the shallow drifts, and then adds that “if
the lead continues towards the river, good re-
sults may continue for an indefinite period.”
The “if” show’s that previous limitations to this
property still exist. Pennington does not despise the
deep ground, as was the fashion the other day. He
wants facilities to handle it, and foretells twelve months’
profitable mining. There is workmanship in this state-
ment, for it looks as if the run of tin out of which the 18
tons came was the result of a back eddy close to the
bank, where a good deal of concentration had gone on.
This probably accounts for the tale told by the bores, the
details of which, by the way, are not shown in the half-
yearly reports. Co.’s financial position is—£ls3o cash :
book debts, £lO5O ; and stores and fuel worth £l6O. Not
much to come and go on with a claim like the Ex-
tended. A couple of good yields would therefore be verv
acceptable.
* * * *
Bischoff Extended, Waratah (Tas.), has had
8.,M. and Co.’s old engineer, P. Fitzgerald, inspecting.
He tots up tin ore in sight at 15,286 tons, worth some 3
per cent., which should be worth £42,500 gross. This
tonnage, he avows, will be largely increased by fossicking
in the old workings and by pushing on development work
from the bottom crosscut. Two dangers show up ahead.
One is that the old miner knew just as well as the
modern how to get tin ore out of a lode formation. The
other is that in tin mining you never know when the
ore will cut out. There is also the instability of the tin
market to be taken into account. It is in the co.’s favor
that it is strong financially, and so can put up the plant
Fitzgerald proposes. Still the mine, as it stands, is a
gamble both in the matter of its own future and on
account of the uncertain metal market.
• * * *
The first half-yearly report of the Mt. Cleveland
(Tas.) doesn’t add much to the ascertained facts. Its
supporters have put forward some very large, loose state-
ments about the property ; but that sort don’t count.
The co. is in 75,000 shares of 10s., of which 10,000 are in
reserve ; of the 65,000 issued, no less than 50,000 fully
paid went to the syndicate that sold the show to the
present co. ; so a poor little 15,000 contribs. have to
carry the whole burden of developing and equipping the
claim, in a district where costs run high. By September
30 the co. had already spent £2172, and it hasn’t even
begun to provide a mill or the trdmway that will be neces-
sary ; it hasn’t even determined on a process of the treat-
ment of its tin ore, though it has been making some
trials in Melbourne ; and how it is going to pull through,
even if it issues the reserved 10,000 shares, isn’t as yet
apparent.
• * ■* *
Mt. Molloy (Q.) report and accounts for the
half-year to the end of June have only now reached
southern shareholders. The document will probably
perplex as much as it will help them. “Blister
copper realisations” for the half-year are said to
be £37,554. At the end of the previous half-
year “blister copper in process of realisation” was
down in the balance sheet for £16.582 in excess of drafts—
in other words, credit was taken for £16,532 as sur-
pluses expected. Whether more or less than this
£16,582 was actually received last half-year isn’t
mentioned; if more than that was actually re-
ceived, then the net profit on the past half-year’s
operations was less than the £8059 set down. On the
other hand, if less than £16,582 was actually realised on the
previous half-year’s shipments, then the past half-year’s
profit; was really more than £8059. The co., as at June
30, took credit for £8982 of copper in transit; if it didn’t
actually realise that much, then the half-year’s profit was
over-estimated. It all boils down, then, to this : that at
times when the copper market has the jumps, copper
mining cos.’ accounts are largely a matter merely of esti-
mates, so long as they take credit for unrealised stocks.
They can’t ignore those stocks altogether, either; the
‘accounts wouldn’t be true statements if they did. This
co., of course, doesn’t stand alone in the matter; it is
even said that such an old, conservative concern as Wal-
laroo and Moonta (W. A.) when it issued its last balance-
sheet put a higher value on its stocks than it would do if
it had to make up the accounts now.
* • * *
Ohillagoe is finding the job of getting the
Huntingdon-Heberlein process under way a tough one
up in remote North Queensland. The eight converters
are now preparing the ore for the blast furnace, and one
of the difficulties has been to break up sintered material,
and get it taken away. Men don’t rush such jobs, so
there is often a shortage of labor, as the railway and
cane-farms have absorbed so many hands lately. In the
long run, however, it isn’t the process so much as the
value of the ore that will decide this latest Ohillagoe
experiment, because the expense of grinding, roasting,
and converting the sulphides into a form suited to the
blast furnace must be heavy.
* * * *
North Queensland tin cos. are mostly sitting
down and thinking hard, as cos. are very likely to do that
have seen their product fall from £214 to £l4O in a few
months. The future, too, is uncertain ; the only thing
the tin-miners can find out for sure is that even £l4O is
higher than the metal ever averaged for a year before 1905 ;
and the £59 and £63 that were quoted ten years ago makes
them shudder. Several of the mines have also been
proving lately that tin lodes are as unreliable as tin
markets. The Endeavor began to have such a blue out-
look that the co. chased the Captain claim and caught it ;
it is a rich show on the Woolooman Creek. ' The
Dead Finish, a claim that the original prospectors
got out of for £6OOO at the top of the market,
is in trouble, and the co. is to be wound up—which is a
worse end than the show, an honest little one, deserved ;
so a new co. may be formed. The one concern that em-
phatically holds its end up is Gilmore’s. As for the old-
established Vulcan, the best thing that has happened
there lately is the tendency to replace good old patri-
archal ways by up-to-date methods.
* » , *. v v *
The Willcocks Cloneurry syndicate is in a bad
way, and reconstruction proposals are still being dis-
cussed. Meantime work almost everywhere has been
hung up, at. the Duck Creek smelter as well as at the
mines. The smelter, though practically ready, was never
warmed.
The survey of the route for the line to join the
Hampden and the Mt. Elliott mines with the Cloncurry
railway has been started. The line branches from the
Great Australia mine, which, by the way, has got its
smelter to work—the first on Cloncurry, if Aldis’s failure
is left out of the reckoning. At latest accounts the
Great Australia attempt was proving a thorough suocess ;
and the second furnace was being got ready. When that
is going the capacity will be 500 tons-a month.
* * * *
Four months ago Wallaroo and Moonta and
the other Torke’s Peninsula copper mines (S.A.) had S9OO
hands on their pay-sheets. There has been such whole-
sale sacking that the number is now.down to 2450. For-
tunately, Broken Hill has been able to absorb many of
the other 1450. .!
»** . * .
When the Tasmanian Copper Co. suddenly
decided that it would have to th row up the sponge at the
Blinman and its other mines in northern S. Aus., the
Government agreed to protect its leases on condition that
it offered the mines on tribute. But the co., though it
agreed, is pottering about, and it doesn’t look as though
the men who want to tribute will be able to,get a look-in
before Christmas.
* * * *
An extraordinary yarn is running through the
papers about the West Arm tinfield (Northern Territory).
“ Between 3000 and 4000 men are making a good living,” it
is declared, “ and some are making more than that.” Bar-
rister Frank Lyons, who has been mixing himself up with
N.T. mining, has also been interviewed about the field, and
says “ it is the best situated tin field in either hemisphere
—water carriage right to the mines.” As a matter of
fact the population is about 150 Chinese and 50 Europeans,
and the Europeans are made to understand that
they are not wanted. It is quite true that there is
water right alongside the mines. It is just as true
that there are oceans of water in the mines, and the job
of sinking below water level (50ft. at the outside) will be
heart-breaking. No man or co. without plenty of
backing could look at the job. Wages are comparatively
poor (from 10s. to 12s. for Europeans), and the living con-
sists mainly of tinned dog and damper. It isn’t a cheer-
ful plaoe for a white working miner to turn his eyes to.


Education by Post.— Until recently young
people in the country who desired to better their "finan-
cial condition by the pursuit of knowledge have been
handicapped by the difficulty of obtaining expert instruc-
tion in general educational, business or technical
subjects. This state of things has now been remedied,
and the facilities of the greatest private educational in-
stitution in Australia may now be brought to their very
doors. Stott and Hoare’s Business College has elaborated
a system of practical and comprehensive postal instruc-
tion in Bookkeeping, Shorthand, Typewriting, Penman-
ship, Arithmetic, Correspondence, Electrical and Mechan-
ical Engineering, Architecture and Building Construction,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, Pen and Ink
Sketching, etc., and effective methods are employed to
prepare by post candidates for all public examinations.
The Principal will forward a beautifully printed descrip-
tive booklet, entitled “ Home Study,” on applicCfS'on to
Dept. 8., Stott and Hoare’s Business College, Moore
Street, Sydney.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reschs Limited, Agents,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Surely a record shearing tally, that of John
Fry, at Tawalla Station (Vic.) October, 1907 —828
sheep in one week. It was worth £9 2s. 3d.
* * * w
Atherton, in the Far North of Queens-
land (where it is much too hot for white men to
work), had a £lOO wood-chopping contest the
other day. And (as it is much too hot for white
men to work up there) they chose crow’s-foot
elm for their gentle little recreation—logs, 2ft.
through, of tough, fine-grained stuff that, under
pressure, you could bend into a cart-wheel.
Mackay, of Mossman, was the winner, Mossman
being a coastal place hotter than most of the rest
of the North—the very place, in fact, where no
white man could possibly live and have any
stamina. He belted through his log in 9in. 35sec.
IN TRAINING.
“ Wot oh! Bill; wot’s the gime?”
“ Didn’t yer know I’m gettin ’ married next
week? ”
Copy of an application for a job in the
railways from Mr. Patrick Waybaek
Name in full : Patrick Waybaek.
Age last birthday : 1866.
Height without boots : Have 2 pares of boots.
Married or single : Was single at first but am married
now.
Kind of work applied for : Work.
Are you an artisan : No ; Irish lad.
Present employment: Rabbits.
References as to character and ability, attach copies :
Poor but honest am a good workman.
Any previous experience in the Railways: Worked on
Degrading works.
Give names of persons or firms you have worked for :
Always wprked for myself.
Are you prepared to accept work anywhere: Like
Government job best.
“ The Prooshan ” : What the servant pro-
blem is to the female employer of domestic ser-
vice as a topic of conversation, so is the virtue
of her favorite fuel to the backblox lady who toils
for herself. Mrs. Johnnycake begins with re-
marking what “ nice bright erackly wood stringy-
bark makes when real dry.” “ Lord, Mrs. J ,
surely you’d never stick a bit of that awful black-
burrtin’ rubbish in a stove,” says Mrs. Sandsoap.
“Give me appletree,” says Mrs. Tart; “it’s
lovely for the camp-oven, and the bark”
“What!” sneers a fourth, “that ’orrid, slow-
burnin’ ash-makin’ stuff ! I’d just like to catch
my ole man tryin’ to lob a load near my kitchen.”
Then all speak at once, and, above the din, one
distinguishes little tail-ends of contention like
these: “Nice dry mossy limbs,” “Light up in a
second,” “Go as black as yer hat,” and, “ Not a
bit er last in the stuff,” by which time the fire is
mostly out or nearly so. And the ladies repair to
the wood-heap to pick up a few chips to “ give it
a bit of a start again.”
* * * *
“Agricola”: Consider the contemptible-
ness of the newly-shorn ram. Before the opera-
tion he is a thing of joy and imposing symmetry.
His massive horns set off his thick-set woody
figure. He walks in seemly pride, an object for
respect, even reverence. Then of a sudden he is
seized and thrown on a board. He is pushed,
pulled, mauled, and smacked on the nose with the
shears because he won’t lie still. And, as a final
degradation, his outrager urges him from the
tally-pen with the business end of a large blucher.
And how changed a ram he is now. The lordly
head and massive horns are still there, but they
are attached to a body which looks like that of a
mere goat. It is made plain that the blocky
figure was a sham, being only woollen padding
after all—a thing the dejected creature had for-
gotten during the year which elapsed since he
saw himself last. If there are any other rams,
he seeks their sympathy and companionship.
Naked and ashamed, they abjure the society of
the gentler sex, and withdraw into the remote
corners of the paddock, until their need for fig-
leaves shall become less apparent. Hogan, J.P.,
consuming the bitter news of his shire council de-
feat, is a circumstance of self satisfaction beside
the same Hogan’s just-shorn ram.
* • * *
Three teams lately sold to mining cos. at
Cloncurry (Q.) realised £450, £525 and £550 re-
spectively. Evidently a Cloncurry team is fre-
quently worth a lot more than a Cloncurry mine.
“X.P.D.”: Here in Chillagoe (N.Q.),
where half the cooks are yellow, the boarders at
pubs and accommodation houses have never made
a real effort to oust them. The white suits which
the co.’s officers (i.e., persons who work in an
office) wear, are mostly “ done-up” at the Japan-
ese laundries, where much of the work of those
whose wages are not salaries is also done. On the
other hand, the copper-mining township of O.K.
dealt suddenly with the alien question a few
weeks back, simply by a notification from the
boarders at the various pubs that white cooks
would have to be employed. But the O.K. crowd
are mostly miners, while Chillagoe’s population
consists of all sorts. One instance of insult to a
white waitress occurred at 0.K., but men were
present, and the Monkey still feels where the boot
was placed.
* * • «
“Jimmie Pannikin”: “G.S.K.” writes
re various modes of travelling in whathelibel-
lously labels the ultra-Sheol country. The
multiplicity of methods of washing one’s
body in tiie Outer Land is also worthy of
record. Have swum in the Darling and its
anabranches, winter and summer. Had a
bath with a bucket at Gibberburra. Did a
drybiow many a time during the liver-rousing
shanghai trips. Tubbed with a sponge and
jugful of tank water. Revelled restrictedly
in a dish of discolored water. The mouth-
spray makes a good substitute for the
satisfying and sustaining shower in the
drought time. Once the District Works
Officer and I barracked for a bath at Fowler’s
Gap, but water was terrible scarce, so we
went down to the “ crik ”at daylight. Atfer
quite an exploring feat, we found a pool
fully 2ft. deep. I stood in the muddy middle
while the D.W.O. poured bucket after
bucket of yellow water over expansive me.
Then I returned the compliment. “Well,
it was worth the walk and the search,” said
the D.W.O. ; “it would have been just the
very thing the doctor ordered, but for the
queer smell of the water.” As we scrambled
up the bank we met a drove of pigs, making
for our polluted pool, the only open water
within miles of the pub. They wallowed
and swallowed and played water-polo for
quite half an hour before they were satisfied.
Then we could account for the perfume.
* * * *
“Aimee”: The soldier bird is the
finest actor in the bush. The manner in which
he leads you from his home and family is a
piece of artistic deception. Flitting from tree
to tree, each one a little further from his
address, he will utter the most heart-rending
cries. I have seen a Chinaman watching his
uninsured premises and stock going heaven-
wards in smoke, and the soldier bird gives a
first-class reproduction of that Chow. Approach
his domicile, and he maintains a discreet silence
and assumes an air of careless indifference, which
is merely bluff.
“Lancelot” (and about 15 others) : The
insect that “Elmore” in B. 24/10/’O7 does not
know the name of is the caterpillar of the cup or
slug moth (doratifera vulncrans). It receives
its name “ cup moth ” from the cup-like shape of
its cocoon—made of a bark-parchment-looking
substance found on twigs of saplings, etc. The
spines that were the cause of all the bad language
are hollow and poisonous—the stings causing
swellings.
* * *
“Hamer”: “You might not think it,
lookin’ at my clothes,” he remarked, “ but I’m
not used to city life. I haven’t been near a big
town for 30 years.” He also confided that he
didn’t want to smoke, but he had got into a
smoking compartment because the others were
full of : women. He reluctantly produced a pipe,
and started to smoke. When we threw our
smokes away he gazed at us with admiration, but
continued to smoke. He said he noticed we didn’t
smoke between stations, but he wasn’t going to
run the risk of a fine himself. One of us asked
sleepily what he thought he would be fined for,
and he winked sagaciously. We were finally dis-
turbed by the noise he made as he departed.
“I’ve had enough,” he said. “It’s a bit’ot to
expect a man to smoke all the way.”
* . * •
Immediate relief is necessary in attacks of
diarrhoea. Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy should always be on hand.*
IN THE NORTH.—AN UNPLEASANT PROSPECT.
“Agricola”: Agree with “ Namoi ” (B.
24/10/’O7) that the bush girl in Cow-infested dis-
tricts wears bluchers. Would he have her wade
through the slush of a cow-yard in dancing shoes ?
Likewise she wears a man’s old felt hat in the
yard pretty often. But “Namoi” omits to mention
the fact that the bush girl sheds her bluchers and
old felt hat after business, and sets-to to make her-
self, from footgear to headpiece, as attractive as
any city maiden —and mostly succeeds. Again, the
bush girl undoubtedly swears—that is, one breed
of her does. This is the breed that corresponds
to Liz from Woolloomooloo. But the ordinary
bush girl swears as little as the ordinary anywhere
girl. “ Namoi’s ” trouble is a tendency to generali-
sation, and he who thus generalises is blind to the
merits of the thing which is, and horse sense is
absent from him.
* * * *
“Quart”: Is the raising of a drought-
proof breed of sheep possible? Idea is suggested
by the fact that a stud ram, lost about eighteen
months ago, in the “desert” country near
Jericho (W. Queensland), was found t’other day
fit and well. Beyond the fact that he sported a
2-year-old woollen overcoat, and wasn’t offensively
“fat,” the salvaged one was the same old ram as
of yore.
* * * *
“Squeaker” : Notice some of your con-
tributors have been making a fuss about a few
sheep being left in a yard and going without a
drink until they were let out. Those sheep went
without a drink simply because they couldn’t get
one. Same as I and a lot more have to do. Now,
I know a drover who brought 3000 fat sheep, in
the wool, from the nor’-west of W.A. to the
goldfields, and they never tasted water from the
Gascoyne to Leonora, although they passed
plenty on the road. They wouldn’t drink. Why?
Because they could get plenty of “junga.” In
anything like a good season there is abundance of
this herbage growing in the country north of
Kookynie. Also here are two more sheep yarns.
(1) On a certain station known to me, a ewe, in
lamb, was left in a dry paddock for three years.
At the end of that time, a station hand discovered
a mob of 21, being the old ewe, her progeny, and
the progeny of her offspring, all very much alive.
(2) During the big Queensland drought, a small
mob of sheep were left in a very dry and bare
paddock for two years. At the end of that time
they were found in the corner nearest to where
the water used to be, all very much dead. They
had been dead about a year and 51 weeks. There-
fore my theory is that the sheep goes on no fixed
rule; that it lives without water out of cussed-
ness, and that it can do without it as long as its
cussedness lasts; that it dies for want of water
out of cussedness ; and that its whole life is regu-
lated by cussedness and nothing else.
* * *
“Australian” (Casino, N.S.W.): A timber-
getter hereabouts has a cute method of avoiding
waste of time and labor on trees which, when felled,
turn out to be “ short.” He owns a (more or less)
tame gohanna. When a likely tree is encountered,
the ’go is shooed up with a string measure lashed
to its tail. The distance from the first limb to
the ground is noted by the saurian’s master, and,
the go. having been hauled back, the axe expert
either falls to or passes on, just as the gohanna
says.
“Paul Cupid”: To “ Gip’s ” query (B.
17/10/’O7), “Should we eat pig?” I reply, cer-
tainly. The edible value of an animal mustn’t be
gauged by the food it eats. The barnyard chook
gobbles filth with gusto; and as for the duck, we 11...
The most delicate fish are generally the dirtiest
feeders. Consider the habits of the gentle harbor
black bream. The lobster’s favorite dish is corpse
—fresh or otherwise. There’s only one doctrine
. for the person who dogmatises against eating
unclean feeders—and that’s vegetarianism.
“Punter”: Am convinced that the quarter-
deckhabit, like Freetradeand all other notable fool-
ishnesses, becomes strengthened and aggravated
in extreme eld. Near me there lives in St. Kilda
(Vic.) an old retired sea-captain, who has in his
ashphalted back-yard a revolving clothes-dryer
fashioned in imitation of a full-rigged barque or
brigantine. When washing-day comes round, the
strenuous life is lived to the uttermost on the aged
cap.’s demesne. He has shirts on the mizzen,
socks on the spinnaker boom, unmentionable
female contraptions which produce balloon-jib
effects to windward of the port booby-hatch, and
sundry other soft goods depending from the fore
and main masts respectively. Bach morning
(washing day or no) he rises sharp at the stroke of
four bells (6 a.m.), and directs a brace of subordi-
nates in the work of swabbing down the hurricane
deck — viz., the back-yard aforesaid. The while
these operations are in progress he paces the
bridge {viz., the back verandah) Jawbone-Neild
like, with a massive telescope beneath his arm, and
directs how the yard is to be steered. As a study,
he’s not too bad ; on the other hand, as neighbor
to a habitual late-riser, he’s a nuisance.
* * * *
“ Yarrum ” : Supposed by some that
snakes suck eggs, but they do nothing of the
kind. A snake couldn’t break an egg if he tried,
and, anyhow, he don’t “’anker after ’em.” It's
the chickens he wants, and he scoffs them as soon
as they come out. A snake will hover about a
setting hen from the time the eggs are put down
until the chicks come out, when he takes charge.
Mrs. Rooster is charmed, and that accounts for
her never leaving the nest in quest of tucker. If
the hen pecks at the snake —they are mostly peck-
ing at something—the snake strikes, and then
there are no chickens. Lately a Kiama man,
next door to me, found a dead hen on a setting of
eggs. He got another hen, and next morning she
was cold poultry. A third one was laid out in the
same way. Then he sat over those eggs for three
whole nights with a light, which they say will
attract a snake, and a big stick, but the snake
didn’t arrive. The comb of a snake-bitten fowl
goes black as ink.
* * * *
“ Spaceband ” : Your correspondent
“ Hamer” (B. 3/10/’O7) states that the champions
of Maori nobility come from the Poverty Bay
district, from which I gather that “Hamer” has
not rambled round Temuka, Kaiapoi, Puketeraki,
or Akaroa, in the South Island. Had he done so
he would have known that the South Island
Maori is a better worker than his northern
brother. Those around Temuka and Kaiapoi are
really hard grafters. I have seen them all, and
after living among the Hawkes Bay tribes give the
latter the palm for being the dirtiest and laziest in
the Dominion, even though they have produced a
Maoriland golf champion.
* * » •
“ Kink ” goes to town :
There are swifter changes in the country byways of
trade than in the city’s. I have just revisited Melbourne
after al5 years’ absence. Round the suburbs where I
used to roam in the boom time the same businesses are
still eking out an existence. The little shops where I
bought my peppermints, my cigarettes, and my boot-
protectors are still open, and still needing a coat of paint.
I see the largest changes at my erstwhile fruit mer-
chants’; the stands are now larger, brighter, and, alas!
run by Dagoes from Athens and vicinity. My old washer-
lady :has disappeared, and Sam Buck irons collars and
cuffs for thg Richmond and Oollingwood democracy.
One thing I do like about Melbourne, and that is the
sleekness of the horses. The city horse-owner is more
merciful to his beast than Cocky and his crew. The city
horse-owner hasn’t got horse-feed to sell—hence he
doesn’t stint his steed, like the hungry grower who has
got it to sell. The city lass fills my eye, too, though pale
of face and skimpy shankwards. Though poverty stares,
and anaemia is a guest, the Melbourne lass is as
jaunty as a godfather gohanna, and jauntiness covers a
multitude of shortcomings in the eye of the drought-
stricken trader of Outback.
THE ROAD INTO THE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the confines of the town, the place of many
changes,
There is a road for you and me, to lead us through the
ranges;
It is the Road into the Bush—the lone, the great, the
splendid,
Wherein there is a home for us when all the turmoil’s
ended.
I’ve traversed it in times of sleep, through deserts bare
and blinding,
Or followed it by crag and steep, about the foothills
winding;
Fenced either side, or through the trees a path that
someone blazes —
A slender thread to lead you through the depths of forest
mazes.
And so it leads you, over hills, and round the rifts and
ridges ;
Through valleys cool with mountain streams, across the
batiks and bridges ;
Until you reach the furthest farms and station-steads are
rarer ;
Until, in unfrequented tracks, you meet no fellow farer.
Then all around you lies the Bush —the Bush of countless
ages ;
The Bush unmarred by human hands, nor hemmed and
shut in cages ;
The silent slopes of many hills ; the cataract that dances ;
The gullies bright with flower and fern, the weird and
vast expanses.
You’ll hear the old bush sounds once more, and tread the
ancient covers ;
You’ll hear the quaint, familiar calls, the notes of swans
and plovers,
You’ll see the movement in the fern where some marauder
passes,
And hear again the long-drawn sigh of wind in tall plain-
grasses.
I know a road outside the town that ever draws my
fancies —
It speaks to me of further lands, it tells of great
expanses;
It is the Road into the Bush ; and, after many changes,
I’ll travel by it once again to lands beyond the ranges.
VIC.
O. G. A. COLLER.


During the fruit season keep a
Chamberlain s Colic, Cholera, and
Uemedy on hand. It may save a life.*
bottle of
Diarrhoea
SAPPHIRES
of. .
AUSTRALIA
are as beautiful gems as the world produces.
In Variety of Colors they are Unique.
In Brilliancy and Plash uneclipsed.
In Lowness of Prices—Extraordinary.
They are being largely worn in London.
1 Exquisite Australian
Sapphire, £5/5/-.
2 Exquisite Golden,
1 Parti-colored Aus-
tralian Sapphires,
£9/9/-.
WE BUY THEM IN THE ROUGH. WE CUT THEM IN SYDNEY. WE SET THEM IN HUNTER STREET.
WE MOUNT THEM ON THE PREMISES. SEE THEM—THEY ARE AN EDUCATION.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
THE OLDEST JEWELLERY
HOUSE IN SYDNEY, . .
PLAIN FIGURES CASH.
23 HUNTER STREET,
“Batcher”: To “Barb,” “Camp-Oven,”
and others. The hall-mark of the bushie is his
unkempt wire-whiskered beard. (Approximate
length, 2ft.) In it you will find entangled a with-
ered gum-leaf or two and a few burrs. If the
above conditions are fulfilled, and a doubt still
lingers, reverse the way back suspect (taking care
not to be maimed by his spurs), lift up his coat-
tails, and behold the classic beauty of your counte-
nance in the sheen of his pants.
“Snell ” : My inquiry re the most marked
characteristics of bushie in town does not produce
proofs that the “ Aboriginality ” experts are close
watchers and trackers of Bill and Jim. After
close and patient observation of bushie far from his
native wilds, I have come to the conclusion that
he is to be identified in town by his marked de-
votion to his hat. There are other pronounced
peculiarities that help to distinguish Bill and Jim
in Bourke-street—their quaint passion for having
their boots cleaned, for instance, also their tena-
acious grip on the hotel in which they reside
(when James and William are not leaning in
clumps hard up against the door jambs, the front
windows or the verandah posts of their hotel,
they are busily engaged having their boots cleaned
by a public practitioner). But the one unfailing
symptom that distinguishes Jimbill from the town
dweller is his painful concern about his old brown
hat. As a rule it is not much of a hat; at any
rate is not the kind of hat the average citizen of
no mean country would want to steal; but
Billjim can’t be convinced on that point,
and the precautions he takes for the preserva-
tion of his tile spoil his holiday. At restaurants
he will never trust his hat to the common rack or
any convenient hook, but carries it to the table
with him. Very often, when his concern is most
acute, he will not take the hat off at all; if he does,
he deposits it where he can keep a foot on it, and
he pauses between bites to dive down and satisfy
himself that no flash thief has stolen in and
pinched it. At the theatre his concern about his
“old brown” is even more agonised. Even if
crowded out of popular parts he carries his hat
into the circle with him, and wears it with an
ostentatious air of being too cute for these
miserable town spielers, till the curtain goes up.
Then he hangs on to his headgear all through the
act, losing the thread of the play by reason of his
nervous dread that the solid gentleman on his
right is hatching plots to abduct his hat. When
the lights come up again, Billjim wedges his
battered felt on his head, and breathes freely.
This process is repeated through the play. At
Melbourne Majesty’s one night last Show week a
Jimbill near me was politely requested to remove
his hat. He regarded the usher with startled
suspicion for half a minute, then took off his tile,
rolled it up, and stuffed it under his vest. The
usher withdrew foiled. I am satisfied that Jim-
bill’s horror of losing his hat is akin to the terror
of losing his trousers that plagues the dreams of
the respectable churchman.
* * * *
“Brad”: I have, or rather had, until
just recently a pet “triantelope,” which spun its
web in a corner of my window. This spider was an
expert at catching flies, but preferred the juice of
the succulent “ blowie ” to that of the common
house-fly. One day a bee had become entangled
in his net, and to see the Squires-like rush of that
spider was a revelation. They clinched, the
“ triantelope” grabbing the bee round the waist;
but the honey-gatherer managed to free himself,
and his footwork was simply brilliant. Then,
turning suddenly on his adversary, he struck him
heavily in the juice-basket with his sting. The
“tri” dropped to the floor of the hut, and I
counted him out—for ever.
DEATH BEFORE DISHONOR.
MINOGUE : “Have yez fired the shot yet, Patsy?”
PATSY : “Sure, haul me up loike lightnin’.”
MINOGUE: “Oi will. Besides, the missus is
waiting for yez.”
PATSY: “Good-bye, Minogue, Oim going back.”
Periwinkle” : I’ve known a few snake-
charmers in my time—Squires, Davis and others ;
and these men were not the fools the public took
them to be—in public! When the charmers go
forth to bag their snakes, they also take an old
woollen stocking, or a bit of blanket. Locating
the snake is an acquired knack. A mouth-organ
is produced, and a few dreamy staves are softly
breathed over. Snake feels less anxious to find
his hole. Then the charmer creeps on his prey,
and fixes a forked stick over the wriggler’s neck,
lhe cessation of the music and the fixture at the
neck are calculated to make any self-respecting
snake “snakey.” Then the “rag” is produced,
and, as the snake strikes at it, the fangs get
caught. A smart, upward tug, and the fangs
lemain in the soft material. Then the snake is
transferred to the bag. In public, the snake
handled keeps darting at the crowd and
charmer. Taunted, it fastens its fangless mouth
to the charmer’s hand, arm, or what-not. Then
thrill fills the crowd, especially if the charmer
is a good actor, as he generally is. The so-called
snake-bite antidotes are part of the game.
A HORSE DEAL.
BILLY : “ We usler hare
that 'orse oncest.”
JIMMIE : “ What’d yer sell
’ini for ?”
BILLY: " Aw! We never
sold ’im-the cove knoo
the brand.”
“Micawber” : I enter the foreman of a
suburban boot factory as a candidate for the Mean
Man Stakes. He never brings any dinner, but
walks around the floor during the luncheon hour,
seeking all lie may devour. His method is some-
thing like this : “ By cripes, Jimmy, eatiri’ agen ?
No wonder you’ve got indigestion. What is it to-
day ? Egg sandwiches! My favorite, too. Told
th’ missus t’ put some in me bag, but she muster
forgot. Stuck in corned-horse sandwiches, an’ I
can’t stand ’em on Mondays.” At the fifth stop
he is replete, and on the modest outlay of nix
precisely.
* * * ■*
“Phil Random”: He holding a snake
spellbound with a hat—or placing a spinning bike-
wheel in front of the serpent to
arrest his attention while you search
for a stick. I was crossing the Gun-
ninbill Plain once accompanied by a
mate, and carrying a respectable,
stout female called Matilda. We
saw a tiger-snake on the side of the
track, and my mate wanted to kill
it. As there wasn’t a stick within
miles, I suggested leaving it to enjoy
its sun bath in peace. “ Strike me
fat!” said my mate, “d’yon think
I’m goin’ ter let that reptile go ? ”
I kept on walking, but my chum
dropped his bundle, and, picking up
a hard clod from a wheel-rut, threw
it at the snake. That snake stood
on the tip of its dignity for some-
thing less than a second, and then
did a rapid serpentine sprint in the
direction of the clod-heaver. The
heaver passed me at the rate of GO
minutes per hour, or thereabouts.
The snake pulled up in the vicinity
of my mate’s swag, which it eyed
with unrelenting scrutiny, whilst w.e
held a consultation some consider-
able distance away. After holding
possession of the wardrobe for about
40 minutes, the long one glided off
leisurely in the direction of China.
It bit the swag several times ere it
took its departure. Matilda became
very much swollen, and burst all
her strappings, and had to undergo
a surgical operation and be recon-
structed ere we again pursued our
journey. Yes —snakes were very bad
that year.
“F.H.R.” : “ Broadaxe ” (B. 31/10/’O7)
is wrong when he says it is only a fad of engineers
to favor backed railway sleepers. We handled
half-a-million sleepers on the N. S. Wales rail-
ways, and the sleeper that is cut with the grain is
useless for railway purposes. When boring a
sleeper for fastening, a three-quarter bit is used,
and a seven-eighth dog is driven into this hole.
The idea, of course, is to have everything tight,
and a free sleeper, even when cut on the “cross,”
will often split, and once a sleeper splits
towards the ends it is valueless. Another thing.
A sawn sleeper absorbs water much more quickly
than the polished axe-cut article. Now the more
water a sleeper absorbs the quicker it will rot.
* * * *
“ Nulla” : “There are no woodpeckers in
Australia. The nearest approach is the tree-
creeper, and as for calling that bird’s shrill, piping
notes musical—well, I must have an unmusical
ear,” writes “Chink” (B. 10/10/’O7). Well, I
enthusiastically agree with “Chink’s” estimate
of his own ear, and more so. There are two
varieties of tree-creepers common to the hilly
country of N.S.W. In the beginning they were
possibly woodpeckers, but our ironbark and box
discouraged them in their pecking, and they build
their nests now under loose strips of bark. There
is one, of a rich brown color, prettily marked with
buff stripes; I have often watched him pros-
pecting his way up the trunks of our bush giants,
and the peal of silvery, bell-like notes he lets
loose as he comes to a new claim is one of the most
joyous sounds of the wilderness.
“P.D.” : I was one of an interested crowd
that watched a butcher collect a very doubtful
debt. It was on the (1 lad Stone-Rock hain pton
railway. The publican was throw-
ing us out one Sunday night about 11.30, when
the man that ate the beef he didn’t pay for came
along. He was on his way to the main camp to
collect the value of a couple of months’ mullock-
shifting, and then do a slope. The butcher inter-
cepted him with a demand for money or an order,
to which he replied that he would attend the
butcher s funeral first. Then a Homeric scrap
began. The butcher was on top one time, the bad
mark another. However, after they had fought
right across the road to the butcher’s shop, which
was opposite the pub., the man of beef prevailed.
He dragged his bad debt inside the shop,
locked the door, wrote out an order authorising
the contractor to pay, etc. ; and with the meat-
chopper in his hand he gave his bad debt the
option of signing it or being slain, and the evi-
dence of the crime disguised as sausages. He
looked drunk enough for any crime, and the debtor
signed the order with horror on his bad coun-
tenance.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Have been horror-
stricken at the debauchery of bees among
the willow trees. Young and old become
incapable of flying’ a chalk line or saying
buzz ’ with a clear enunciation, owing to
the intoxicating effects of the young sap. By
the way, why do cats bring rats and birds to
let their owners see them before they will eat
them ? Is it to have a blessing asked over them ?
Think it probable myself. There always appears
to me to be something Pecksnitfian about the airs
and graces of pussy. Or do they bring them to
have a percentage taken by way of rent for their
house accommodation ? And, talking about blow-
flies, is there a better way of killing them than
chasing them in a motor-car and breaking their
knees with a stockwhip ?—Yours etc., Kati-Kati.
* * * *
. il •' Why can’t we get up an associa-
tion for the cultivation and preservation of the
Australian flowering and other plants ? Here in
the Hills, 20 miles from Adelaide, are orchids,
daisies, currant bushes (why didn’t some patriot
preserve us the native names of them ?)
gems of delight that would ornament any Euro-
pean hothouse—things I call honey-myrtles, mar-
tialettes, Dolly-Vardens, snowdrifts, May’s-eyes,
“ so-long-Marys,” and heaps of others! And
what a garden they make—until the Cow-man
comes along a,nd gets to them with his axe and
fire. Damn him 1 And never a one to preserve
small, even small, areas of this Eden for the chil-
dren of the next generation to know the real Aus-
tralian flora ! I asked a little girl on the roadside
what she called a lovely, five-petalled beauty that
looked like a diminutive apple tree in full bloom,
ohe said, “-Dunno 1 One of them kinds of ti-tree,
I think.” Then she went to help dad burn off.
We import “Johnson’s Curse” and stink-weed,
and other unmentionable things, and burn the
flowers of pre-Adamite Heaven.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Protection : Yes, and when you’re forming your
“ Domestic Servants’ Protection Association,” you might
protect Merely Angelina from herself. The innumerable
Merely Angelinas who “ engage ” and aren’t heard from
afterwards need to be spoken to just as severely as the
marms do. The Merely Angelina sisterhood is spoiling
many a good and once-sympathetic marm that way....
L. (Pittsworthy, Q.): No ; The Bulletin doesn’t claim
that rapes and such-like crimes are unknown amongst
whites ; only that they are a good deal more general
amongst the black and piebalds who are living in a white
country. Witness America. Interested to hear you were
educated at Oxford. It is a great place for turning out
people with a comprehensive knowledge of the
conditions existing in Oxford and environs and an
all-embracing ignorance of those obtaining elsewhere....
Tenax : “An Experiment” hardly “ up.” Also, “Mind”
won’t choke a hardened morphia fiend off his dope. He
usually has no mind worth speaking of left to him by the
habit. Nothing but incarceration for a couple of
years in some institution where morphia cannot
be got is of any real value G.F.C. : “Through
lack of backbone on the part of the National
Protectionist Government (in failing to enforce certain
Acts), Australia loses Watson.” Well, that doesn’t de-
stroy—it rather supports—The Bulletin’s contention that
perhaps the only way, certainly the speediest way, to
secure reforms is by combining Laborites and National Pro-
tectionists. Your objection is that the National Pro-
tectionists do not carry out the Labor policy, for lack of
backbone. The Bulletin’s suggestion is that the Labor
party should supply the backbone.. Hector C. : Don’t
like your puns ; in fact, don’t like anybody’s puns
J. 0.8. : Yes, J. O. Watson would be an ideal
High Commissioner, but he wouldn’t take the post
M. (Corowa): Don’t try it. The Lone Hand will
have something to say on that subject shortly Timber-
yard : As far as The Bulletin knows, Tatts. sweeps are
conducted honestly, but every sweep which is not drawn
on the day of the race gives horse-owners a chance to
blackmail prize-winners of half (or more) of their winnings :
and the chance is usually fully utilised G.A.A.: Not
at all unusual for us to be called “ a brick.” We are a brick
—a violently thrown brick sometimes when the contribu-
tor sends poor stuff ir. an insufficiently stamped envelope...
Stony : Yes ; selling laces and ribbons over a counter is
only forgivable in a young man when he has an aged
mother or a young wife dependent on him for seven
crusts a week, or when the man is physically incapable...
G.S.P.: “Surf-bathers” unsuitable*. You write well,
but aren’t happy in your choice of subjects Elleb :
Your yarn is a forecast, and they’re hardly ever accept-
able Cosmo: Too verbose D. 8.: The alleged
“dialect” spoiled the thin chance the story had....
G.L.B. : You’re the dullest person we’ve struck in all this
dull day if you took that “guff” seriously Tahuna :
Nearly, but not quite Lillipilli : Share your good
opinion of steadfast, untiring, upright and downright
Arthur Rae, and when Senators are being called for
there’ll be room in The Bulletin for you to give him a
shove-up... .Hawk: Favorable report re “grace, symmetry
of motion, and complexion ” of W. Wyalong (and district)
females to hand. Congratulation to Wyalong (and dis-
trict.) Jeach : Verses didn’t make good. Mate, not
worth while. “ The petition to Parliament ”on the tariff
question is generally recognised as being a fake. Let the
foreign-traders have a monopoly of fake methods....
E.W. : Thanks; but there are so many Japanese atroci-
ties in Korea: we can’t fill our columns with blood—
Asiatic blood at that C.S.G. : Sketches not quite
“up”; verse has merit, but the treatment is still too
rough W.D. : Sonnet in the Petrarch manner, en-
titled “ The Essential Features of a Shorthorn Cow,” and
beginning—
The following points constitute I trow.
The beau ideal of a Shorthorn Cow,
unsuitable Jery: Definitions of “amateur" and
“ professional ” photographer would depend for all prac-
tical purposes on the arbitrary say-so of the local photo-
graphic society, or any other authority. We should
define a professional as one who made the bulk of his
income by photography ; and put down all others as
amateurs J.E.: Grieved to hear of your neighbor,
who, though penniless, a punter, a non-worker, and as
ugly as sin, yet contrives to fascinate the local females.
This is the sort of thing that gives us who are wealthy,
and don’t punt and work, and are extremely handsome,
the cold spasms.
“ Goril ” : A friend of mine residing up
the North Shore line had two tame kookaburras
on which he rather prided himself, he having
trained them to act as scavengers in keeping the
garden clear of grubs. But some wild koos in
the neighborhood seemed to resent the indignity
cast upon the honor of the koo family by this
servitude, and tried to induce the scavengers to
quit their tame ways and live the lives of self-
respecting koos. But all to no purpose. One
morning the lady of the house was astonished to
observe two of the wild koos range up one on
either side of one of the scavengers, and, by
manipulating their wings under his in some
peculiar manner, raise him bodily from the ground.
The lady succeeded in shooing off the would-be
kidnappers for the time being, but since then both
the scavengers have disappeared mysteriously,
and the sarcastic note in the laughter of those
wild koos when they now approach that garden
makes my friend regret that they are protected.
“ Hamer ”: An ability to swear is often an
inconvenience. It brings bad luck. The best
swearer I know is always meeting with accidents.
He is a carter as well as a curser. I meet this
accomplished linguist often, and almost every
time he is the centre of an admiring crowd
listening to his views on his latest disaster. He
has either run into something, or something has
run into him. There is such a fascination about
his flow of speech that I would be tempted to
drive a vehicle—if I had one—headlong into him,
just to hear what he has to say about it. But so
far this hasn’t been necessary. Someone else has
always done it. His grandest effort was when
his hind wheel came off, and let his load of wool
down softly on the tramline. Then the way he
leaped on his hat and objurgated was good to note.


f/
y- 1
£O% !
"lse afa tv>|it~ ''t'O COl'r/e*'
I)eCK *»i w.7.
e'rfci'f'cd •
fMy fy* r l
G r *y*
pvf- op A cV 1 of* o«<Vn
* c,r j
£ a $ c ]
>A|y»*7
(onstable MwpKy Ohrop S
,r ye. (■>■>' ! •
hJSefe'Uf p**-^
ar it hr>\y te v/or S e -for the no .
TV)ree'fones
™V^ ors . j
m***" &>*y
t)C»n oWr> ,n *
{Dfc'W i*|**3
QrbfiA
’"?W_ 7
A PROOF OF THE
RULE.
Jew; “There have been
Jews who’ve not been
money - grubbers, you
know. For example,
the Founder of Christi-
anity J ”
Gentile: “Ah, but He
was a miracle |”
" IT. Bent" 'fyc'es Advice •7bHC of' 'tff'R
[)a.trenc« of Sco*h*W Queeo |jsti»me -fe
K"»7O/
foe only 'fitrte Wor/cQ
Well Tj
foitn HVy Qn«e« oj' S c o+S J
NOT BEING ABOUT THE CUP.


‘‘ J!? h h ert °. l ! , h . ave fo " nd that when 1 have succeeded in having a day vet
Jjart f humiliation and prayer for rain, people generally spend that day in
to picnics. "—Bishop Smith.
m T ,“ 0H YE 0F LITTLE FAITH I ”
Mrs. lumpit (as they start for the tyicnic) • .. a-„ ,*
goin’ to take the umbrella, Tim ?•< n Y ° tt
tofto be^oe. 1 ” They re P ™ y '"’ ™'“ •'"'V.
‘7 , h * Ve ’ as * have saw before, a soft
gJii“ art f ° r Aslatics ."-Bruce
tte also has a "soft spot" a l/ttle
up for things in general, but
oobodv ever heard Bruce Smith brag
about it.
f° AL
* Look i j
K ° thr °*'loz things aboVt- °“ lW °
abolish the wiring T*" to
«>> military officer » SW ° rds
the proposed absentee tax
Londonlsed Australian: «'Tis sweet to
embered by frlen(U *hen far
British Lion • •< v<i CASE 0F KAID MaCLEAN.
a British subjea o"’ - at there Was a tlme "hen to see
Indeed ; but, you see, in my old aze’l'm made me ver y wil< *
cations (mostly foreign) that I dare not C°mp,i-
drama without « ? ot “f
swashbuckling swor<|.p, ay
COAL, KAID AND CO.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy can always be depended upon. For sale
everywhere, Is. 6d.*
Severe cramps, colic, and diarrhoea are
promptly cured by Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Lily Fury was the name of a witness in a
Melbourne City Court the other day.
Ex-Labor leader Watson’s dissipation is
Bridge. IN ew Labor-leader Fisher’s is chess.
Monday, Nov. 4th, Julian E. Salomons,
K.C., and father of the N. S. Wales Bar, entered
his 72nd year; and on Tuesday (Guy Fawkes’
Day) N.S.W. Governor Rawson passed into his
64th.
When Dan O’Connor called on the Ameri-
can lions, he talked for an hour and a half to
President Roosevelt, and then Dan was put off on
to the head of Teddy’s Cabinet, and talked to him
for three hours. So the modern Daniel overcomes
lions—with Samson’s weapon.
William Sinclair, of Tyringham, N.S.W.,
(son by a former marriage of just-deceased Eliza-
beth Ologher), is the sort of citizen Australia has
need of. He is the father of 24 children, and has
adopted two others—the orphans of old mates.
All the pupils of the Tyringham school come
from his house.
Dan O’Connor, in an interview with
Sydney Telegraph, blackguards Coghlan and the
N.S.W. Agency-General vigorously. Which,
taken at its true value, is a high compliment to
Tim Coghlan. We all like the “genial Dan,”
but somehow would rather suspect the industry
of a public official who won his favor.
It was announced in London Times the
other day that a wedding was shortly to take
place between Alfred Dobson, Agent-General for
Tasmania, and Mary Alice, eldest surviving
daughter of the late General J. T. Walker, some-
time Surveyor-General of India. The bridegroom-
to-be will be 60 next August. He is Senator
Dobson’s little brother.
Rev. D. Telfer, of the Eaglehawk Pres-
byterian Church (Vic.), who received his last call
at Melbourne on Oct. 25, aged 49, was one of the
few parsons who bothered to think on social and
economic questions. He often used to make his
somewhat fashionable congregations have cold
shivers down their spines. He was a preacher of
Christianity, and not churchianity.
The Father of the Queensland House of
Awful Fossils, Johann Christian Heussler, met
Time out for business last week. Heussler hailed
from Germany, came to Australia as a young
man with shattered health, and his age of 87 is a
tribute to the climate of Brisbane, where he spent
over 50 years. Though all that spell in the
country, he could not master the English language
to the extent of intelligibility. Heussler did
good work for Ban an aland—though he was a hide-
bound Tory—in the earlier times, by inducing
many of his countrymen to become settlers in the
Commonwealth.
Sydney Telegraph the other day reported
the death, at an advanced age, of Miss Matilda
Jane Lowe, “daughter of the late Robert Lowe,
afterwards Lord Sherbrooke.” It was
news to a great many, especially the
Lowes of Mudgee, who were located
there years ago. Robert Lowe, of
Mudgee, was an enterprising and
successful grazier. He, in 1875, received
a gold medal from the Government for
the courage he displayed in shooting
the bushranger Heather, in a hand-to-
hand encounter, in 1863, near Slapdash.
“ Sherbrooke ” Lowe had no children by
»- either of his two marriages.
Mrs. Sarah Hudspeth, who died in
Bathurst last week, lived in the reign of five
British Sovereigns—George 111. and IV., William
IV.. Victoria, and Edward VII. She had been in
N.S.W. over half-a-century, and in Bathurst for
45 years. By this last she earned her rest.
A temperance enthusiast with the highly
appropriate name of Fountain has just died in
Adelaide at the respectable age of 92 years, built
up on a foundation of cold water and black-
smithing. He prided himself on having acquired
22 grandchildren and 27 “ great” ditto, none of
whom had any use for beer.
Died, at Warrnambool (Vic.), Louis
Bayer, aged 50. All over the Western dis-
trict his name was a household word. Bayer was
a German by birth, but came to this country when
only a lad. For a while he roughed it in the
Western district, and then he took up violin-
teaching and the writing and production of opera.
He claimed to have been the first to pay Ada
Crossley a fee.
There died recently, near Warrnambool
(Vic.), Mrs. William Coughlan, at the alleged age
of 107 years, 55 of which she had spent in the
Western District of Victoria. She and her hus-
band arrived in Sydney in 1838 from Ireland (these
centenarians all come from Ireland). The hus-
band died at the alleged age of 100 years, and Mrs.
Coughlan’s brother, Mr. Walsh, of Purnim, was
said to be 102 years old at his death.
Andy Fisher, the successor to Watson as
the pilot of the Federal Labor party, is not
aggressive until aroused, and then he strikes hard.
He, naturally affable, will go out of his way to
quell a fire—-and in this closely approximates
Watson. His sympathies are national. He is
not petty nor provincial. His two experiences of
office were short-lived—Secretary for Railways in
the week-old Dawson Ministry of Queensland,
and a member of the Watson Government.
Fisher began to earn his living a,t the age of 10,
and for years delved in the Gympie mines.
Died, at Macquarie, near Windsor
(N.S.W.), at the age of 83 years, one of the oldest
settlers on the Hawkesbury, Mr. Thomas
Arndell. The original Thomas Arndell came out
with Governor Phillip as assistant surgeon. He
was the medical officer on board The Friendship.
In 1790-2 he was in charge of the Parramatta
Hospital.
The Yarra Yarra station, the property of
the McLaurin brothers, in Southern Riverina
(N.S.W.), was originally taken up and stocked by
r ather Therry, of Sydney, who at that time was
head of the R. C. Church in Australia. He was
an excellent judge of cattle and his brand IJT
generally topped the market. He sold Yarra
Yarra for £20,000, most of which he devoted to
the building of St. Mary’s Cathedral.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” supplies an epitaph :
As an Outback ex-exile, I desire to refer to the splendid
work done by the late and truly-lamented Dr. W. C.
Speece, of Coramba, in the interests of the West-o’-
Darling settlers. The dead man was particularly sympa-
thetic to the sufferings of the settlers’ children. Some-
times his anger interfered with the exact accuracy of his
press statements ; but only the cold-blooded, callous ice-
bergs are never white-angry-hot. Certainly the doctor’s
heart was always right. Occasionally he lacked patience ;
but, as he himself used to say with a semi-cynical, wholly -
humorous smile, “ Patience is often merely a form of
anaemia or utter indifference.” Those who feel warmly
often speak warmly. Absolute accuracy is a fine thing in
mere mathematics ; but sincere sympathy is a finer thing
for suffering humanity. Many an outbacker will mourn
“Medi-cuss.”
The death last week, at Melbourne, of
Hubert de Castella, aged 83, recalls the initial
sprouting of the Australian vine. In 1811, John
Macarthur went off to England to make an ex-
planation concerning the way Governor Bligh
lost his job. Macarthur was away six years
or so, and, in the interval, put his son to “fag-
up” things at a school at Vevey (Switzerland),
and have a look at the vineyards and the yodels and
other local products. When that son came home
he planted the first Australian vineyard at Camden
(N.S. W.) —from which William Ryrie got cuttings
and planted them out on his Yering (Vic.) cattle
station. In 1849, Paul de Castella came to Victoria
from Switzerland, and bought the Yering station
(now Lilydale), and kept the vine flourishing.
Hubert arrived in 1854 ; kept the eye of a prac-
tical vigneron around for a while, and then took
some samples of Yering wine to Switzerland. The
Swiss folk said the refreshment was good, and
Hubert came back about 1864. He bought 3000
acres near Yering, and founded the well-known
St Hubert’s vineyard. De Castella married, in
1865, a daughter of old-time N.S.W. Legislative
Councillor Robert Pitt Jenkins, and N.S.W.
viticultural expert, Francois de C., is a son of the
marriage.
A flourishing man in South Africa these
days is Mr. C. Knox, who makes good his claim
to have done work at the Eureka Stockade. He
went to S’Africa over a Quarter of a century ago.
and was successful
both as storekeeper
and miner. Now he
has built for himself
a beautiful home in
an ideal spot at the
foot of the Ingeli
Mountains in south-
ern Natal, where he
showers hospitality
on all who hail from
Australia.
THE WHIPPER-IN.
STOUT PARTY : “ What were the boohs
laying about Pancake for the first race?"
PANCAKE'S RIDER (bitterly): “ Can't say. I
know what I laid about him when we was
coming up the straight."
About some religious, or semi-religious
folk. Bishop Stone-Wigg, of Papua, resting in
Queensland with his bride, is announced to be “a
little stronger and a little better.” Bishop Dawes,
of Rockhampton, is voyaging to England for
rest and a holiday. Archbishop Carr intends
visiting Rome when the bother about Roman
Catholic State school teachers is satisfactorily
settled. Mr. Judkins will tour Fiji and Maori-
land in search of health and heart, his admirers
having presented him with £l2O for that purpose.
Laboring in the Vineyard is evidently a strenuous
and health-attacking occupation.
Australia’s Postmaster-General Mauger
bates two things like poison : (1) to have to carry
Ikey’s disguised betting-price list through the
post; (2) to be called “Morger” instead of
“Major.” A deputation waited on him t'other
day from Way-Out, and a local councillor was
wiring in with the vehemence of a rescued
Salv’army recruit, demanding that a telephone
should be laid on to some cow-yards ; but, to the
consternation of his local member, he kept on
referring to the P.M.-G. as “Mr. Morger. ’
When Cow-yard paused to get a breather,, the
local member whispered—“ Call him Major.”
The amateur log-roller winked and looked wise,
and, resuming his remarks, dragged in a chance
to promptly refer to “my worthy friend ‘Major
Morger’.” In the explosion that followed, Cow-
yard said that he had finished.
James Watson, M.L.C., who answered the
quorum bell last week, was a native of Ireland, and
came to Sydney in 1856. Later, he ran a business
with his brother, at Lambing Flat (Young,
N.S.W.), where the Chows used to lose their pig-
tails; and in 1869 he joined the Sydney firm of
John Frazer and Co. In the same year he became
M.L.A. for Lachlan (N.S.W.), and Parkes made
him Treasurer in his 78 Ministry. Then he fell
into the Upper House, and stayed there till he
died, aged 70.
“ ADVANCE” AUSTRALIA.
Our utmost hope would be that in the far future there should be a Jewish province in Australia, perhaps
even a Jewish State, as not the least valuable member of the Australian Federation.— ISRAEL ZANOWILL.
The walls of the Promised Land.
Baptist Gardens, the site of the £35,000
worth of accommodation for a Sydney police
depAt now nearing completion, was one of
the best laid out and prettiest flower-plots in early
Sydney. John Thomas Baptist, who cultivated
what before his time was rocky and sandy ground,
was the first to set up the gardening standards of
the South of Europe in Australia. He was a
Portuguese, and arriving with a young family in the
’twenties of last century, addressed himself at once
to the soil, and in a few years was in a position to
supply most of the city with all tropical and semi-
tropical plants and flowers. Wealth literally
rolled in upon him. Much of his landed property
is still in the hands of descendants. The well-
known fountain in Hyde Park is a tribute to that
lucky old Baptist.
Died suddenly, last week, Henry James
Byrnes, P.M., of Cowra. He was son of the
James Byrnes who helped Martin and Parkes
financially and politically at many junctures, and
was on two occasions Works Minister. The
Australian head of the Byrnes family accom-
panied Captain Phillip as sergeant of marines,
and was thus to the front at the very
beginning of things. He took up his quar-
ters at Parramatta, and soon the Byrnes’
influence dominated that settlement. His sons
were in time owners of most of the place. They
ran stores, steamers, ’buses and mills. The
Byrnes’ Parramatta woollen mills were once a
flourishing Australian industry. Then they went
for politics, James in the Lower House and
brother William in the Upper, both living to a
great age, and spending on that hobby a lot of the
cash they had heaped up in their other pursuits.
Adelaide’s star “ Lucknow relief ” veteran
is George Thompson, who was a full cor-
poral at the time of the row, and did
something conspicuous at a, bridge 50
years ago. He did something just as
valuable when, a few years later, he
and half-a-dozen others established the
Adelaide Co-operative Stores on half a bag
of potatoes or thereabouts, and nursed it during
the next 35 years into a big, benevolent con-
cern. He retired from the general manager’s
job a couple of years ago.
By way of cultivating a hobby, W. M.
King, of Clayfield (Brisbane), has put in most
of his spare time during the last two years
in making a pipe organ, said to be the best
and largest ever made in Queensland by an
amateur. It contains 320 pipes, and has
nine stops. And, by the way, it was
made by an amateur in a country
where, according to the importer, the
trained workman can’t make a clothes
peg.
Burnand, ex-editor of Lon-
don Punch, has taken to judging
what the Daily Chronicle (Lon-
don) calls “Lipton Limericks.”
By the rules of this pastime,
which is carried on broadcast in
the Ma land just now, the first
four lines of the Limerick are
supDlied by the prize-offerer ; the
forwarder of the most blitheringly
idiotic fifth line collects the reward—
which latter runs sometimes as high as
7s. 6d. and £250. Adjudicating Limericks
is held to be an almost ideal pursuit for an ex-
editor of Punch.
“Jimmy” Graham, member for Surry
Hills (N.S.W.), takes pride in being familiarly
addressed by his constituents as “Doc.”
Yet a standing injunction in the medical
schools is “Don’t be a ‘Doc’.” The National
Medical Review printed an article on the
theme once, and heaped up instances showing
that the man who accepted the familiar address of
“Doc” invariably went to the bad in England
and elsewhere. “ A medical man may be called
a thief, a liar, and a deadbeat, and yet may
prosper and live on the fat of the land. But once
let him be called ‘Doc,’ and his professional
success is at an end.” By the way, they had just
begun to call the member for Middle Harbor
“Doc” at the immigration meeting, last week,
when he rose and resigned his position of president
of the society.
The repudiated remarks of the Victorian
Presbyterian parson, who, according to all the
papers, counselled Australia to shoo Byron, Burns
and Bacon off the premises on the ground of their
impropriety, recall the efforts of another “good”
man. His name was Randell, a ’Groper M.L.C.,
rising 80. Forrest put him into his Cabinet as
Minister for Education, on the principle, no
doubt, that a man is never too old to learn.
Randell, however, was too old to learn. But
he wasn’t too old to teach. At the annual prize-
giving of the chief State school in Perth, or there-
abouts, the head of the Department rose up and
denounced Shakspeare. He admitted that there
were two or three ideas of William S. that were
worth preserving, but he “ought to be re-
written.” People met him in the street after
that and assured him that he ought to push on
with the job, and that there were plenty of junior
clerks hanging round his Department doing
nothing.
The veteran philanthropist, E. T. Smith,
is back again in Adelaide, and all the le lgious
and charitable and atUetto bodies
upon him like the daughters of the horse-leech
spoken of in the Scriptures, °emgte
poranlv deprived of their'.horse. He left bchi
nearly £4OOO for distribution am g . • _
ties during his six months in England
and, as his native town Walsall b nq iete l him
during his visit, it may be presumed that he ha
been diffusing coin there also.
Artist Arthur Streeton sailed from Mel-
bourne by the Everton Grange on October 20.
His destination is first the Cold Country, after-
wards Paris and Venice. He contemplates being
away about three years. Just before he left he
spent a week in Queenscliff (Vic.), fulfilling a com-
mission for his old schoolmate, W. L. Baillieu,
who desired a picture of the ’umble cottage on the
beach in which all the Baillieus were born and
reared.
Alfred Dreyfus retired from the French
army last month on a pension. He was con-
demned 13, and again eight, years ago on the
ground mainly that he was a Jew. He is an
acquitted man to-day (the Supreme Court of
France declared him “entirely innocent” in
July, last year), for the same reason. “ J’Accuse,”
the work of the Jew Zola did much, and Dreyfus’
own characteristically Hebrew endurance under
persecution, the rest.
Cow item from an employer’s evidence
before the N.S.W. Arbitration Court: —
John Hogan, dairyman, stated that he had seven wages
hands. His son rose at 5 a.m., worked until school time,
and resumed work after school. His wife and daughter
also worked, but none of them got any wages. His men
worked seven daj'S a week, and llj hours a day, and
received up to £1 per week.
After recording which, the Foreign-trade papers
tell Australia to stick to the Cow and other great
natural industries, and have nothing to do with
“ the wretched drudgery of factory life.”
“Gum”: Re new-chum Chinamen in
Queensland. A relation of mine has a large
garden in Victoria, in which he employs a number
of Chows. [Better change your relations.—Ed.
B.] Occasionally it is necessary to renew the
“ stock,” and a Melbourne Chinese firm in the
banana trade is always able to supply the required
Chow on a couple of weeks’ notice. When the
new chum arrives the head Chow takes him in
charge, and sets him to work for a while in the
least-frequented part of the Thus he
loses his freshness in the secluded country air,
gains a knowledge of English from his country-
men, and avoids the rude Customs officials, who
might ask awkward questions.
“ ANY FOOL WILL DO.”
“Lord Rosebery,” said Mr. O’Connor, “told me that
no appointment as High Commissioner could give more
satisfaction than that of Mr. Reid.”
ROSEBERY: “ That is, of course, barring yourself,
Dan.”
The existence of an Aliens Exclusion Act
on the statute book of Japan will, no doubt, come
as a shock to Spruce Myth and others of his
school. Certain railway contractors and mine
managers in Japan—discovering that the Chinese
coolie in Japan asked for only 20 cents (lOd.) per
day, and the Korean would work for even less, while
the Jap coolie demanded twice the wage—began
to import Chinese and Koreans. Just as in this
part of the world, they explained that it was not
because the foreign labor was cheaper, but
because it was more manageable. The local
labor market was disorganised, collisions be-
came frequent, racial troubles broke up the
peace of whole districts, and brought about
something like a state of war. The Jap
Government remembered that there was an Aliens
Exclusion Act, and, with the prompt methods of
a practical despotism, the law was set working
immediately. All Chinese and Koreans were
ordered to be dismissed and deported. Shipments
that arrived after the issue of the Imperial
Ordinance were taken in hand by the police and
sent back at the cost of the owners of the ships
that brought them. That Japan has the right to
exclude and deport them is unquestionable, but
the curious part of the business is that. Japan
wants to prevent other countries exercising the
same right.


a
m
A
The Spirit of 1770.
N.
I
)J-
IW
S=5S<S
£
7
1
rw
aw
■ r - 'l
-•i.
. i
vo-nrTI
1 " "' 1111 ! iuiuijMiii Jr).
-; • .
* \
*
'
«* • .
BP^
Still the same Spirit s
Still the same old Tobacco
YANKEE DOODLE.


A little lady you all know in this city was
once very unhappy. Everyone wondered why.
She had money—piles of it—a figure that men
used to fairly rave about—hosts of admirers—in
fact, was quite ripping. Only her complexion !
Blotchy and rough, tanned by the sun—it was
wretched. That was her sorrow. Then a change
came about—everyone noticed it. Her skin lost
all its blemishes—it became soft, and smooth, and
beautiful, with that clear satiny look you see in
the skins of little girlies. And the lady is no
longer sad. She is the admired of all. Would
you like to know how the change was brought
about. Listen, while I whisper it. Valaze.
That’s all. Valaze. Has the little fable any
meaning to you ?*
UQ(/£
o
<9
*
❖
Ui
*
&
•m*
%
t* v
e< 8
s'
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricola”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld„
Sydney and Melbourne.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK, and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, November 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
The Hartwell lady, who was Miss Georgette
Fleury, daughter of a worthy French-Algerian
trader, has secured her divorce from the faithless
Sir Brodrick, Bart., who arrived here on a yacht
with someone else’s matrimonial encumbrance
t’other day. Mrs. Joan Chamberlain, the flighty
aristocrat’s companion, is a tall, statuesque, albeit
somewhat vapid, type of beauty. If it is ever her
painful lot to lose Brodrick, she can always earn
an honest crust as dressmaker’s model. The lady
owns a figure that would “ set off ” a soogee bag.
The engagement is whispered about of the
charming Mrs. W. B. Dailey to a young official of
a Sydney shipping firm.
Anna Gould, the Yank “multi,” who divorced
her awful spouse, Boni de Castellane, the other
day, on about 120 good and sufficient grounds, is
going to face the matrimonial altar again. Her
new venture is, according to N. Y. World, a
prince who is “the most fascinating rakein Paris.”
In support of the latter contention the paper gives
a picture of him in the very act and fact of
alluring a lone female on a verandah. He does
his deadly work wearing an immense hat, cylin-
drical as any drainpipe, and with a per-
fectly straight brim. Around his neck is
wound, in about 1300 convolutions, something
that might either be a giant hunting stock or a
Bashi-Bazouk’s turban. His sprigged waistcoat
is double-breasted, and as huge as it is
gorgeous. Gigantic likewise are the trousers
which swathe his august legs, and the frock-coat
which droops about him elsewhere. Chains,
charms and monocles bestud his breast, and he
owns a moustache beside which Jawbone Neild’s
appears a mild and inoffensive decoration. The
paper has no opinion whatever of the prince’s
code of ethics. It delves into remote history
to his discredit. All his dead-and-gone rela-
tives sustain rough handling. But he remains
the absolute boshter of a peculiarly bonzer
family of moral horrors. “His admirers call
him the modern Alcibiades”; “havingexhausted
every form of vice, he has been attacked by
paralysis,” and, again, “ he has no spinal marrow
left.” He “ maintains 12 separate establishments
at once in Paris and other places.” Stanford
White’s Hamland retreats were mere feeble imi-
tations of this man’s Gallic ones. Ever since reach-
ing the age of indiscretion the nobleman has been
fighting duels. Whenever he gets bored, he goes
out, insults someone, and then there is a duel.
(This benefits the local ammunition factories, and
no one, unless lamentable carelessness is shown,
ever gets hurt.) This particular Alcibiades has
been engaged more times than he can count. Two
engagements to one duel is a rough estimate ; but
since the last fragment of spinal marrow left he
has gone slow. Abel Hermant, the Palais Royal
playwright, has put him into a piece in the guise
of a sort of Cyrano de Bergerac, who jests about
his skill in taking down the rich vulgarian, and
at the same time challenges anyone who hints
that he is “hot stuff” in this regard to acute
double pneumonia—the certain result of an early
morning duelling scrap in the chill, dank Bois de
Boulogne. “It would be impossible,” concludes
the World firmly, amid the edified plaudits of
every Yank, from saintly old Pittsburg to the
New York Tenderloin quarter, “to find any
man in the world more utterly unfit to become
the husband of an American woman.”
That gentle champion of Christianity, the
London Saturday Review, deals thus charitably
with the Deceased Wife’s Sister marriage, now at
last legalised in England :
The Church has no option but to make it quite clear
that it will not recognise these marriages. If the Govern-
ment has any sense of fairness, they will restore a clause
relieving an incumbent of the obligation to allow his
Church to be used for the celebration of these marriages,
if a clergyman can be found abandoned enough to offi-
ciate. If this is not done, the bishops must deal with the
situation by an authoritative pronouncement that they
will not recognise or have anything to do with any clerk
who marries parties under this Act. He will be a moral
and spiritual outlaw. . . Social ostracism is a powerful
deterrent. Strong measures are necessary.
Meanwhile London gossip in general, caring not
twopence for the matter either way, speaks
pleasantly of it as “ an Act for the Abolition of
Aunts.”
Hardly a day has passed within the last fort-
night without one of the Sydney seaside mayors
explaining the reasons why he didn’t want surf
bathers to wear a skirt, and how nobody had ever
suggested such a thing. Mayor McDougall, of
Rand wick, has just given the thousand-and-oneth
explanation, in which he said that he had never con-
sidered the skirt for men at all, but was deter-
mined that women should be compelled to wear
them in the water. As the principal ground of
complaint against the skirt is its danger, the
average person, not a seaside mayor, fails to see
any more reason why women should be drowned
than men. If the skirt is intended to conceal
the female form, it is as well to know
that it would utterly fail in this object,
seeing that the moment a skirted woman-bather
gets into the water the skirt is converted to a
cumbersome belt about her waist, conveying the
impression that she is in ordinary walking cos-
tume, which has become seriously disarranged.
The municipality of Manly, a year ago, made
skirts for women compulsory, but, after a trial,
so many women persisted in entering the water in
the old one-piece costumes that the authorities
gave up the attempt to enforce the by-law.
Anyhow, it is hard to tell who is offended
by the sight of the lady whose costume suggests
her figure. It can’t be the other women, for the
matter is of no interest to them, and it doesn’t
seem to be the men, and if you exclude the women
and the men from the population, there are only
the mayors left.
From Palings’ comes a patriotic song, “ For the
Honor of the Flag,” by May Pettifer. Its senti-
ment is culled from the policies of all right-think-
ing wimmen’s leagues, and the rather tame verse
apostrophises king, country and flag. It has a
simple, tuneful swing, and offers little difficulty
to the vocalists who like to advertise their
patriotism by inoffensive ditties.
From Brisbane :
The Governor returned to the State on Saturday, and
sheds a pale light upon the proceedings of the Austral
Festival at Toowoomba on Monday.
There is said to be a rift in the Metropolitan Anglican
See that threatens to engulf Bishopsbourne itself. The
Archbishop goes about with a look of worry that even the
recent revelations over the Infants’ Home failed to pro-
duce. The trouble appears to be centred around the
Bible in State schools question.
The Clara Butt-Kumford party had a great audience at
the Exhibition Hall. But Brisbane is bad at enthusing,
and there was a considerable dearth of flowers, and people
got up and hurried on with their cloaks ere the last note had
died away. If the Angel Gabriel and his best trump band
performed here, I don’t believe he could keep people from
leaving before the end of the world.
The great profession of tooth-pulling is about the most
paying of specs, in Brisbane. The beer-engine isn’t in it
with the dental grinder. Was told yesterday that our
most fashionable lady-dentist has just purchased a car,
and will shortly whirl through the city. As this young
lady has not been in business a year, some idea may be
arrived at of the rate at which the shekels are raked in.
The engagement is announced of pretty Ethel Murray
Prior, daughter of the late T. de Murray Prior, of Maroon,
and Roy Butler, of Kilcoy stud estate.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Our Residence is in mourning, so we go without the
one little festivity, a garden party, that was to have
broken the monotony of Cup month in Adelaide.
Nothing but the Butt visit remains to cheer us up, after
which we shall put up the shutters on our town mansion,
and betake us to the drowsy kine and the frisky lambkin.
Little Stella Hall gave an invitation piano recital in
the Town Hall t’other evening, and the Salt was
there. The pianist certainly prodded the instru-
ment somewhat forcefully, and showed promise ; but
her work is, as yet, unequal and immature. Some
judicious person should also see to her frocking. Frocks
are half the battle in this wicked world—as the cute
people who stood at the elbow of little Leila Doubleday
realised. The vocal interjections were provided by two
back-from-Britain-ers, Frank Robertson and Elsie Jones ;
the latter of these two is being heaped with engagements
and sweet-smelling vegetables.
After all, Adelaide missed a view of Beatrice Irwin in
the Julius Knight co., because abrother or some other
inconsiderate relative died at the wrong moment. How-
ever, Miss Elbertorton was new to Adelaide, so we bore
up. The lady struck us frockily. In “ Rattles” she wore
a wicked green-eyed garment, and a snaky velvet hat
proclaimed a vivid Past. Now she is frocking the naive
Woodland maiden in “ Robin Hood” with equal splendor
and thought.
Apropos, an Adelaide damsel who has figured largely
here during the last year or two, has gone on the stage
by way of retrieving "the family fortunes. ’Tis said she’s
to have a speaking part in the first production of the
“Scarlet Pimpernel.”
The ’Varsity undergrads, are to hire the Theatre Royal
for their December revelries this year. They no longer
relieve the dry ceremonial of Commemoration with their
mad hilarities, but stay firmly away and disport them-
selves in some public place, where Faculties don’t shake a
reproving finger. Last year, as an experiment, they hired
the Tivoli and packed it at 3s. a head. And though age
find respectability are supposed to be agin’ it, I don’t
believe it would take much to make the Council itself
drop its dignity and fight for seats with the rest of the
world.
From London :
To-day’s charmer of the Big Smoke wears a gold whistle
on her muff-chain or her chatelaine or her cable bangle.
This is not for summoning a cab, but for collecting Spot
or Towzer or any other similarly named yelper. The pet
learns the key or tone of his lady’s whistle, and comes
hurriedly out of the gutter to leap at her clothes with all
his four muddy feet. The dog craze is the strongest
passion the Englishwoman admits, or at least publicly
demonstrates. The coldest type and variety of her hugs
the soiled yelper to her proud bosom in the public eye,
and kisses his dirty little nose before the street
gaper in almost unconscious ecstasy. There are
motor-goggles for Spot now, and a whole petrol-
car outfit; and the brute sits on a little cushioned
perch behind the steerer, thrusting an inquisi-
tive nose out at every sign-post or halt op the road.
Their own mistresses put up with looks of boredom and
satiety from these pampered little beasts which they
would not suffer from a rich godfather or a wealthy
eligible. “My dog’s a perfect tyrant,” admitted an
Honorable somebody to me the other day; and she told
the truth. (A woman often does by accident.)
Melbourne, November 4, 1907.
It was no use staying in Sydney. Everyone
was going to Melbourne. So I went too. Mel-
bourne is a much better dressed city to-day
than when I left it six years ago. I don’t
refer to the frocking of its women the
instinct towards that urges like gravitation
—but to its municipal dressing of trees and
shrubs and plants that climb and cling. It is
dressed like a salad, especially Collins-street,
where the elms have added many cubits to their
stature, and where these spring days old birds are
teaching baby birds to fly. And under the green
and leafy dusk of the “fair, brave trees” walks
as of yore the ever-silvered Reggie Bright, on his
way to or from his club. There’s a legend that
Reggie came up the Yarra with Batman. Be that
as it may, his silver top still wins the benedictions
of debutantes to-day, who wreathe with their
fluffy compliments the old buck. Another road,
made marvellously leafy and spacious, grown out
of all recollection —finished with a pencil instead
of a spade, so to speak—is that from Prince’s
Bridge to St. Kilda. In Sydney we don’t muffle
our public buildings in green, as is done in Mel-
bourne, to Melbourne’s advantage. The barracks
on St. Kilda Road have hidden their stony face
behind the green hair of the Virginia creeper.
Three men-of-war disturb the summer’s doze
in the barracks garden where the strong marigolds
feast on the sun. Colonel Stanley, with the bend
in his back unimpaired, squares his shoulders
under the burden of Commandantship, and says
the diplomatic words that leave the visitor in
doubt as to whether he would rather be looking
from behind the unveiled face of the barracks at
Paddington or standing here backgrounded by
the white lauristine that smells of honey and the
sea. The second man is one of our own Sydney-
siders, Major Legge, and both he and the
Colonel look like smart school-boys beside
the third person, the leviathan Colonel Hopton,
the English visitor of rifle-shot fame. Goliath
Hopton towers to the low-lying thunder-clouds,
and impinges unduly east, west, north and south
beyond his place in the Cosmos. And when he
gets on to the road, and Melba’s motor-brougham
—a huge touring-car—whizzes by him, one thinks
that, if there was a collision, it would be the
motor, not the man, who would suffer.
Melba’s motor goes several times a day on this
road, trailing clouds of glory and of dust. The
a
prima donna, who is living Malvern way, is
little ruddier than on her last visit, but her eye s
burn more fiercely bright. Astute men of affair s
who meet her talk quite reverently of her com'
prehensive grasp of problems with a big P. One
of them said she should have been sent to the
Peace Conference at the Hague. Another told
me he had seen her four times in the same gown
—a chiffon with blue and black in it. She
wore it on Derby Day. A constant squire
of the Chief Skylark is the MaeCulloch, a
member of a well-known Victorian family.
He is a gallant widower, with the face
of a well-groomed war charger. His late
wife was a sister of that ill-starred genius,
“ Jack ” Wagner, whom many Sydney-
siders remember with affectionate regret.
Melba has only to be seen in public with a Some-
body bachelor, like Sir Harry Rawson or the
horse-faced gentleman, for people to say she is to
be married to him.
At the first night of Meynelland Gunn’s “Mid-
night Wedding,” Melba, with her son and
daughter-in-law and the charger-faced gentleman
in a box, drew the concerted gaze of the house.
It seemed to amuse her, and she gazed back
somewhat through her jewelled lens. Daughter-
-in-law Ruby is a short person, of just
nineteen years, with star-bright dark eyes,
the loveliest of complexions, and a small, delicate,
parrot-beaked nose. She rides astride when in
the country, and lets her hair blow loose. But to
hear her conversing in French and German (in a
drawing-room where there were some foreigners
who knew no English) is to believe that she has
had unusual advantages. She seems to have read
everything, and been everywhere, and the over-
whelming Melba hasn’t even begun to whelm
Colonel Jocelyn’s one ewe lamb.
That Melba will give some concerts during her
stay in Australia is now generally known. She
is too much alive to put her vocal chords out of
business for many months. Papa Mitchell, boss-
ing his big contract for Buckley and Nunn’s new
premises and going strong on his other concerns,
wool and wine ones included, also proves his
vitality.
MISS CARRIE LANCELY, a bright young
Australian soprano, who went recently to
London to study under Charles Santley.
Cables tell of her success on London concert
platforms.
Melbournians seem to take their play-acting
more seriously than Sydneysiders. In “The
Midnight Wedding ” Gaston Mervale, as the
wicked officer, was enthusiastically hooted and
groaned at by the gallery for his attempted damage
to the spotless reputation of Princess Astrea.
When Princess Astrea (Madge Mclntosh) takes
her riding-whip to the intruder she was entreated
by a galleryite to “give him the father and
mother of a beating,” and Hareourt Beatty had
compliments and offers of drinks for himself and
collars for his dog showered upon him. The King
Charles doglet that played a dozing part in ‘ ‘ Sweet
Nell,” is stdl with the actor, and “ Mr. Beatty has
gone to take the dog for a walk ” is a frequent
answer given to callers at his hotel.
By their ties ye shall know them. Poseidon’s
male friends and backers are wearing violet ties.
The large Foy clan has some stern, wild, kilted
porridge ties. As for the Albury Mitchells —one
member of whom owns Dyed Garments —they
don't dress down to their nag’s name lest people
say they got their clothes from a pop-shop. At a
gold-dusted cafe on Derby night after the theatres
there was a “Poseidon table.” His owner, Mr.
Denison and Mrs., beautifully gowned in white
and silver, the W. Camerons (her lace gowns and
§ olden head were not small potatoes at our recent
ydney Spring meet), and the Benjamins occupied
it. A Napoleonic-looking party named Poolman,
recently bought out (from Port Melbourne) by the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co. for a sum resembling a
war indemnity, had another glittering party.
One lady—don’t know if she was tagged on to
Poolman’s party or not —had a small peacock in
her hair. Every “eye” on the tail was an
emerald. Its head eyes were rubies. All it
wanted, to be the real thing, was life and a
raucous voice.
Bookmakers’ wives are the most expensively
dressed Cuppers in Melbourne. But that doesn’t
mean that they are not sometimes dressed with
good taste as well. One lady, whose diamonds are
blinding Melbourne dress-circle audiences, has
nine pairs of evening shoes to match her nine new
evening frocks, golded and silvered footwear in-
cluded, and her monogram, a detachable device in
blue and silver thread, is put on to the instep of
the particular daisy-breaker she selects.
On an afternoon this week three Sydneysiders
met in Collins-street, each bursting to tell the
others that the Melbourne hansom man ought to
be thrown down a sewer oii something vicious.
Each had been most humorously overcharged
by cabby. My complaint was that cabby had
made me pay three shillings for driving me from
George and George’s to Government House and
bank to Allan’s. The animal driving walked
the animal in the shafts, despite the fact
that I alternately admonished him with a
few words, or a red sunshade poked through
his porthole. From start to finish, morgue
pace notwithstanding, the journey was 20
minutes. The god on the vehicle explained that
“three shillings was the Government House fare.”
I forget the cost of the other woman’s grievance ;
but the third complainant was a man, and his
cabby asked him for three half-crowns for driving
him to Colonel Stanley’s house, although the
journey was done in fifteen minutes. He reck-
lessly gave the money. On the day of the Govern-
ment House garden party, quite sixteen hundred
persons, the majority of them wearing costly,
perishable, fragile, and immediate frocks, trammed
as far as Government House gates, and walked
the remainder; find the healthy exercise is quite
understandable if the Melbournians are mal-
treated by their cabbies as are the visiting
miserables.
Melbourne has the most gorgeous drove of
motor cars. For one you’ll see in Sydney there
are 20 here. We keep motor launches in-
stead, and take our pleasure on the blown wet
face of the sea. And all the Melbourne petrol
carts are closed, for the dust is as exasperating
as it is constant. For dusty reasons also the
Melbourne girl wears gossamer veilings 29 days
in the month. She’s a friendly puss, the Mel-
bourne girl. The first stranger damsel I met
showed me her new powder puff, a square of
chamois leather with about a teaspoonful of
powder permanently ambushed under an oblong
strip of chamois. This strip is perforated with
tiny holes, and just enough fine flour filters
through. When not in active service the puff is
rolled into an atomic roly-poly pudding shape, and
tied with white satin ribbon.
Doubling back to the Garden Party: The lawn,
being as big as Monaco or Garden Island, held all
“ those present.” At four o’clock a wireless
message to come to tea must have reached the
“ brilliant assemblage, ” for it let down its train,
turned its collective eye and feet towards the
House, and slowly centipeded to where the
browse was laid. The point of this observation
sticks into the trailing trains. The simultaneous
sweep of a thousand or so silky fabrics over the
grass was audible below the crash of the band
and the gas and giggle of conversation. It
was on one note, even, insistent, penetratingly
sweet, and lasting for quite five minutes. I don’t
recollect noticing anything of the kind before,
unless it were a baby wind running through green
barley, and that didn’t travel on one note.
A hive of Sydney people at the G. party : the
Clibborns, Mrs. Oscar Backhouse, and Mrs. John
Williamson. Mister John is known here as “Tariff”
Williamson. No man could be as innocent as Mr.
Williamson looks (that’s a quote, of course, but
it fits “Tariff” like his coat). He has christened
Bill Lyne, Beale Lyne. But William’s troubles !
Mrs. J. T. Toohey is a Cupper, and Mrs. and Miss
Sparke, and Miss Pearl Faithfull, whose painted
chiffon, shaded like the Rainbow Falls in the
Yosemite, was one of the gowns on Derby Day;
and the Matthew Harrises, some Chisholm and
Marks branches. Mrs. Maclurcanand pretty Jean
and Mr. Egan, the fiance of the last, are here
taking bites of the capricious weather.
I arrived this day week, and was told that
the day was an exquisite one. As my intellect
was tottering after the malignant conditions of
the rail journey (yet our bunch was as tenderly
cared for as if we were eggshell china), I don’t
remember the quality of that day, but the next
one was above 90° in the shade, with an able-
bodied dust-storm doing business in partnership
with a screaming wind. The third day one
couldn’t see out of doors for the torrential down-
pour of rain. Derby Day, more heat and dust.
Sunday, more lances of rain. To-day (Monday)
is cold, and so threatening that I fear Sir
Harry Rawson will lose his biton Poseidon. Our
State Governor dreamt Poseidon, you must know;
and report says that the Pos. horse won’t win if
he runs in mud.
Talking of horse. A great bunch of men were
standing in the vestibule of the hostel that I
pervade, when someone said that the distinguished
mare Solution was about to be sold up at Some-
thing rooms. The bursting of a bomb couldn’t
have cleared out those men faster. Solution
fetched ten thousand and odd guineas. (Yet she
wears but one race coat of bay pelt.)
Dr. Arthur Weston, of Point Piper, and Mrs.
are here for the opening of the new Dental Hospi-
tal. Mr. Marich, of Paling’s, is trying to look
ill-humored over something, and failing signally.
Major Lenehan motored from Sydney with the
Rose Bay Smiths. They were so black with dirt
on arrival in the city that the police were going
to do something to them as colored and undesir-
able aliens. The Majah has Ballaratitis badly,
as the party stopped at a convent there
and an adorable Reverent Mother, eighty years
young, admired the soldier and wanted him to
stay and become a monk or a nun or something.
The Windeyers, of Newcastle, were at the garden-
party, daughter Daisy doing the coaly city credit.
The item that took my eye on Derby Day was
a white silk parasol embroidered with three raised
wreaths of strawberries and leaves. The paths,
so to speak, between the strawberry-beds were
filled with frills of narrow lace. And there was a
gown of primary-hues chiffon with a plain over-
skirt of pure white chiffon. That was an unusual
touch.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


Bushman’s
Dunlop
Tyres
carried Francis Birtles from Perth to
Adelaide—over 3185 miles of country
infested with spinifex and prickly
jacks, across salt lakes and burning sand
—without tyre trouble or puncture.
COUNTRY
CYCLISTS
who desire immunity from tyre
troubles, and are willing to sacrifice
a little speed for Reliability and Hard
Wear—over the roughest of roads
and tracks—are recommended to use
these tyres, which are absolutely
proof against trouble. Obtainable
through any respectable Cycle Agent.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO
All Stataa and N.Z.
-555
To MINE MANAGERS, etc.
We now matte a, speciality- of
eaterins fo<; all Rubber Mining*
Coodaf and ean recommend dw
DUNLOP
CONVEYOR and VANNER
BELTS, AIR DRILL and
SUCTION HOSE. PACKINGS.
VALVES etc., aa being the equal
of any imported article. Our
Goode have the great advantage
of being fresh and free from
perish, and being specially made
to suit your own requirements.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
• *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
tbl&Mtrfe, Sydor. AdMie,
A Household Word.
Completely Odtolasses Whalebone
For Au Dress Boning Purposes
INTERESTING INFORMATION FREE.
Address—MISSMABEL LEWIS, Box 98, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ts>
ELS
Co RgKErTS*
$
'SOMETHING • £VITE -NEW-
'"jmLimm
0
WORLDS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 4, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Marvellous Melba has bought a basinet— the
basinet which adorns a section of the Women’s
Exhibition. This surprising purchase is stirring
the imagination of gossip-gadders, who have
come to the disappointing conclusion that the
future occupant won’t have the chance of a
hereditary fortune in the shape of a Voice. In
fact, they’ve decided that the imminent infant
will merely be a fairy god-child or something of
the sort. After Melba’s performances in many
parts, it would be rather interesting to see her
play grandmother. This basinet, by the way,
arouses the envy of every woman who has even
seriously considered matrimony.
Melba has moved into “ Flete,” the house where
the Hartley Williams family once bided. “ Ereil-
doun,” meanwhile, will see the diva and her
retinue only during hot weather spells, or when
Toorackety diversions become too warm to be
tolerable. The Voice candidly confesses that
rural retirement sometimes seems as exhausting
as an opera season.
The Cats’ Conference at Cliveden was a joyous
farce. Delegates from every flourishing women’s
league in Australia have made laborious pil-
grimages that they might loose their eloquence
under the nose of Janet Mrs. Clarke, and show
local vote deflectors what sort of wonders are
grown in other States. Addresses were limited to
a quarter-hour, but debates had neither beginning
nor end. Apparently, if a fat matron chose to
vocalise the middle and end of an independent
trail of thought, nobody cared. Or, if a sparse
spinster opened up the subject of conscription,
while the Conference was considering the suit-
ability of Miss Smitb-Jones’ hose to the shanks
of a respectable never-to-be-married woman, and
the desirability of a White Australia, it didn’t
seem to matter much. The chief thing was
Cliveden, and the dear Dowager who’d been so
politically generous. Really she did do the
delegates well. Afternoon tea was invariably
faultless, and some of the Naicest leaguers have
been bidden to Cliveden festivities, in their un-
official capacity. _ What more could political
petticoats desire in their most aspiring moments
of patriotic fervor and national concernment?
By-the-way, a Sydney suffragette repeated her
famous bon-mot, to the effect that, if men were our
masters, it needed only singleness of purpose and
untiring energy (she didn’t mention on whose
part!) to make us their mistresses. Can such
humor be unintentional, one wonders.
Sometimes I am inclined to doubt it. Are we
not all familiar with the lady who wilfully says
something capable of a giddy meaning so that she
may show her savage virtue by snubbing the
victim who giggles? Perhaps the lady on the
Elatform always blunders innocently ; I’ll try and
elieve so.
Those tableaux in the big concert hall at the
Women’s Exhibition were watched by a packed
squash of folk, and at the end of each tableau
be-rouged and made-up maidens would flutter
round and join their doting parents, and smile
delightedly through sooty eyelashes at the attend-
ant Johnnydom. It has been The Thing, with
a capital “ T,” to pose in these pictures.
Foremost among the spectators, the hard-
worked Madden and Forrest Dames folded their
hands in the bliss of perfect triumph. It was
really “worth the whipping.” The Woman’s
Orchestra and an occasional warbless assisted the
much-rehearsed effects with sweet music. Burne-
Jones’s picture, “ Dante’s Dream,” was faithfully
copied. The extreme neckiness of that neck of
the bier-resting maiden had always appealed to
me as unnatural in the 8.-J. work, but pretty
Mrs. Raleigh stretched her pretty column
to quite the pictured length, and the re-
sult was good. Mrs. Raleigh’s face is rather
thin, but, like Trilby, she has “beautiful bones.”
Dame Forrest’s masterpiece, “The Sultan’s
Daughter,” was finely posed, with pretty Miss
Eileen Whiting in the name part. After all the
talk there had been about the trousers of the
Eastern beauty, the long-expected garments re-
solved themselves into quite flowing draperies,
and the drooped posing of the tired attendants
was good. In a following tableau a tall maiden in
abbreviated white tunic and lengthy brown-tights
legs called forth an amazed remark from a mere
man. “By Jove! Is that the girl who refused
to wear ’em.” He had picked up some odd scraps
of the early “trousers” discussion, and was re-
garding the brown understandings as further
proofs of inconsistency in the sex that runs the
show.
Musical competitors are emitting a long and
plaintive wail about Exhibition arrangements.
The trouble surrounds “The Spinning Chorus”
from Wagner’s “ Flying Dutchman.” There are
four sets of competitors, I think. The University
Conservatorium crowd, the Marshall Hall folk, a
bevy from Hobart, and warblers led by Mrs. Garew,
of Melbourne. The judge is being kept a deeply
dark and mysterious secret. Each bevy, of course,
will do “ The Spinning Chorus.” Chief wail is
that each performance is to be separated by two
and sometimes three weeks, an arrangement
which is pleasing to the tribunal, but hard on the
competitors. For how can a mortal judge com-
pare the points with the softening lapse of time
between? “Also,” wail the First Comers, “the
Others will come and grab all our little tricky
ideas and innovations—criticise our failures, and
improve on obvious mistakes.” Melbourne Uni-
versity Conservatorium come first in the list.
Their wail is feline. They have been pre-dated
fully three weeks, and fur is flying. For one
thing, Frocks are not ready. And that is deadly.
To be caught, like a foolish virgin, without a suit-
able frock when the conductor’s baton taps is a
depth of disgrace not tolerable.
Mrs. Sydney-Carpet Edwardes—over here with
Exhibition enthusiasms —broke into one of the
huge jovial all-embracing Teas that the Exhibition
Madames are wallowing in. This spread of ices
and bun took up almost all the platform room of
Paris Cafe, and the chatter was like a flutter-fight
in an aviary. Just-returned Madame Slapoffski
starred as guest. She is in Melbourne, waiting
for Hubby. Then they jaunt to Sydney. “ We’ll
furnish and settle there,” says Mrs. Slap.
On Friday, at the Women’s Work Exposition,
Mrs. Janson arranged a programme of Scan-
, dinavian music. It was a real privilege to music
lovers. Mrs. Christeson was chief coadjutor
to the plump contralto, and sang some songs of
wonderful power, by the Finnish composer
Sinding. And the Whitley string quartette made
strange, sweet music.
The Naval and Military Ball, the night before
the Derby, was a brilliant event. The affair was
more in the hands of Military officers than Naval,
and several spoilt darlings of the Navy stood out
in a pet. Heard someone murmur : “ Anyhow, the
Ball’s a success—even if Tracy would not come.”
I heard one languid Sydney dame put quite a
swing into her voice in praise of it. “ We’d never
have such a scene in Sydney,” she declared. “ No-
body’d have enough enthusiasmand energy to work
it up.” It was a disappointment that the war boats
had not got round; it left out a great and
adored splash of officers. Nevertheless, the girls
had a good time. The entertainment scheme had
been carefully thought out—the numbers were so
large. Every colonel and captain made himself
personally responsible for the owners of his wedge
of invitations, and everything went smoothly.
The only mistake was that no one in particular
was told off for A.D.C. duty for the fringes of the
various Governor’s encircling suites. Heard some
of the hospitable officers concernedly discussing
the matter next day. “ We’ve never had so many
Governors to deal with at once in our lives,” de-
clared one, amazedly. “ We should have told-off
a special escort for each exhibit.” “ A Governor-
General and a Lieutenant-Governor bracketed, is
no small matter; but Governors by the gross need
thinking out.”
The Northcote Lady looked fine in black Spanish
lace, draped over her white and silver frock. She
drew a court train magnificently after her, and
wore a tiara. The Northcote Lady owns beauti-
ful feet and shoulders. The feet are always
beautifully clad, and the shoulders generally
gracefully unclad. All the other Governor ladies
were dressed in silks and glitter, but the Chelms-
ford lady wore black, and muffled herself, even
while dancing, in a funereal-looking black feather
boa. The magnificent-looking stranger man, in
gorgeous uniform, who had roused much com-
ment, resolved into Count Morner, the new
Swedish Consul for Sydney, or somewhere.
German opera again, and the same old crowd at
the Princess’s. There was quite a re-union ; and
the thick, soft sauerkrauty accent was like a
blanket folding everyone in a big warm embrace.
Mrs. Carlyle Smythe (who has wandered
over Maoriland with hubby and the com-
pany) leaned back in her seat and gloated,
“ This is Home. Give me Melbourne and
my Princess’s after Maoriland mummer halls.”
Pretty little Miss Mohwinkel—niece (who has
also wandered with Uncle)—was just as gloating
(even though Melbourne is not Yarmany). Her
moan of Maoriland is summed up in one wail,
Invercargill. “We arrived there at eleven one
night—raining steadily—a dark railway platform,
no porters, no cabs. We walked in a mournful
procession along streets pitch dark (lights put
out at ten), and tried to find our hotel.
There was no hotel, so we went to a coffee
palace. I rang for a syphon of soda water. They
wouldn’t bring it —said Invercargill was a Pro-
hibition Town. I convinced them that soda
water held no alcohol and they promised to
obtain it ‘ in a day or two ’ —Oh In-ver-car-gill! ”
Folk had forgotten in the softening interim
the awful implacability of the management as
far as door-closing was concerned. “Lohengrin ”
was allowed to begin at eight, but a
happy Derby crowd who had backed Mountain
King did not worry about little things like
that, and motored along after the fateful fan-
fare. The lockout was quite real, nevertheless,
and they had to sustain themselves with coffee
and chatter for a solid hour —what time wild
shrieks came from the prima donna within, and an
occasional blare of thunderous orchestra. When
there is not a race meeting the awful lockout
will begin at 7, 7 30, and 7.40. On Saturday the
half-hour intervals were chopped down to ten
minutes, and the comfy lounge, chatter, and
stretch was quite cruelly cut out. Flowers by the
cartload were shovelled up to Heinze and Mia
Barcow during a pell-mell rush of the audience
for their last train.
First day at Flemington—Derby Day—was a
shout of jolly color and well-groomed form. There
was the row of Governors and Governoresses that
we are getting so used to (what a blank there’ll be
after the races, when we are reduced to a mere
G.-G. and a G.-lieutenant!) sitting in their gor-
geous blue and gold pen, with luscious roses to
help on the color. Our Governor Lady was in
blue, and the visiting Ladies flaunted many
plumes in soft grey and fawn color. One Madden ■
maiden carried a country hedge of roses on her
head.
Frocking is wonderfully pretty nowadays—but
it seems to be the Hat that counts; the modish
style of dress is simple and quiet, so the ultra-
smart let their fancy cry out loudly in headgear.
Recipe : Get the biggest all-round straw hat pro-
curable at the moment (the kind fruit-pickers
wear near-by the Murray and Goulburn), pile on
all the fruit, flowers, plumes, wings and ribbon
you can afford, and be sure to let some tumble
over your left ear ; do your hair on a cart-wheel
frame to make it fill the inside vacuum, and pin
odd curls to the brim with pins the size of primi-
tive daggers. Then you’re “all there.”
Melba was better dressed than she has
appeared before in the Glaring Eye (and that says
much—her frocking is a symphony). Very soft
grey was the toning, with cool touches of white —
a shady, plumed white hat, and a duck of a lace
parasol. A pink-clad daughter-in-law was
with her. Saw Heinze, of the opera com-
pany, sailing about in all-black. The Von
Pinschof maidens wore their gorgeous ama-
teur-theatrical frocks (the frocks were de-
cidedly not amateur). Demure Miss Phyllis
of the Clarkes chummed about with Mrs. Pinky-
Frocky Raleigh; so did the little Fenner girls.
Dame Forrest seemed to enjoy herself with a
crowd of Westralians and Tasmanians; her frock
looked like strawberries-and-cream. Mrs. Nor-
man Menzies buried her energetic little self under
her hat—there were huge pink roses tumbling
over her white-clad shoulder. Mrs. George
Chirnside was at her Frenchiest point—pale
mauve hat, gown, gloves, everything ; purple
peonies pinned in her dress. Saw one
frock that stood out by itself (Mrs. Peters was
within it). It was crepe, the tint of old ivory and
lilac tumbled round the foot, drooping and crush-
ing over a black crepe hem and a vivid green
border.
The George Chirnsides had a swagger lunch
party under the vines, and the Pinschof maidens
spread themselves in a Strawberry Tea. The
L. L. Smiths’ lunch party entertained the gaud
Mayor and his Lady, Mr. Bent and other notables.
The luncheon parties were quite happy between
wind-gusts; poor John and Adolphe had the
worry—the wind lifted the whole cloth and
all the table furnishings in playful pleasantry
at unexpected moments, and the salt tipped into
the charlotte russe, and the strawberries rolled
into the salad.
Garden-party, ball, races, theatre—that is the
alternate-day programme nowatimes. One poor,
gold-laced atom moaned at the last garden-party,
“ This is the third time I’ve dressed to-day, and
I’m due for three more dressings before I blessedly
disrobe.” This is certainly a giddy race season.
On Friday night, the “ Como ” Armytages gave
a big dance, and there was a flutter of carriages
going on to “ Como,” or varying the pro-
gramme by finishing with the gay, latter part of
the “Naval and Military.”
Private dances are the order of the night, and
increase the whirligig gaiety. Admiral Bridges
and his wife gave one on Wednesday night.
Their own ballroom would not meet the demands
of the hordes of extra inter-State visitors, so the
Pr’an Town Hall was hired. It was a most
swagger dance; the Northcotes guested, which
is an unusual favor with private dances. A
florist flew into dreams and fancies to deck the
hall suitably. The ceiling is domed and very
lofty. There was plane after plane of soft-
colored electrics, making misty stars with dim,
purply blue—like gentians—in the far back-
ground, and the walls were hedged in with roses.
The Weatherleys, of “ Belillah,” at Brighton,
also broke out into a dance that would not fit into
the home ballroom. Brighton Town Hall had to
be annexed.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn gave an At Home
at Menzies’ on Thursday to meet the warm-haired
Miss Madge Mclntosh. Rupert Clarke was
much in evidence, and Daughter Phyllis fluffed
quietly in a blue and feathery hat and dress that
snowed up the milk-and-roses of her complexion.
Hasn’t Phyllis got just papa’s eyebrows and nose?
The Cummings maiden and sister Mrs. Robertson
aired their lately-arrived selves, and little Mrs.
A’Beckett had hubby in tow. It seems a good
wicket to marry a settled bachelor ; they are so
tame to handle. Little Mrs. Willie has no
end of a good time. The musical programme
was just right. There was an unusual item.
It sounded like a violin, then a ’cello. It was the
auburn-haired Lioness of the At Home playing
the concertina —most beautifully. I don’t know if
the instrument has a different name in polite
society, but it was the musical box that ’Arriet
plays driving ’ome in the moonlight, with the
same sentimental wavings and undulations.
The most gorgeous gowns—flocks and bundles
and hundreds of them—trailed the lawns at
Government House garden-party on Friday. It
was a record party for numbers, and as for
plumage, it might have been a congress of all the
birds of the Tropics. The Lady Northcote trailed
silk of pinky lilac, and her parasol and gloves and
veil were all of the same soft, cool color, with a
daring, but effective, contrast hit out in a small
toque of misty blue-and-pink. The Madden Lady
was perfectly gowned in white lace, filmy beauti-
ful lace (and the lawns were so green). Ruby
Madden looked very tired in a most wide-awake
green.
There were many men at this lawn party; quite
an innovation. Many came without their frilly-
frocked halves (who were Exhibitioning), and
exploded the idea men are wont to moan, that
their wives drag them to garden shivoos.
Visitors from other States are here in myriads.
N. S. Wales folk simply bank up the streets and
trams and and hotels ; and as for Queens-
landers ! At a recent At Home there were two
hundred Queensland visitors alone. The whole
island of Tasmania is deserted, and Westralians
are as numerous almost as the sands of their State.
The engagement is proclaimed of Geva Stanley,
daughter of Mrs. Riddell Stanley, of “Cabers
Carre,” Elsternwick, Melbourne (and daughter of
the late Commander H. J. Stanley, R.N.), to
Colonel S. W. Dashwood, sth Fusiliers (North-
umberland), son of the late Rev. S. V. Dashwood,
of “ Loughborough,” Notts, England. The com-
bination of Army, Navy, and Church in the
announcement is as very English and respectable
as the names of the contracting parties.
Miss Phyllis Clarke has been flourishing a
busy pen. An invasion of MSS., bearing the
brands of Victoria’s only baronetcy, threatens to
disturb the calm of several paper offices.
Sydney artists did well at the Women’s
Work Exhibition. Florence Rodway gains first
prize for a charcoal head, and second for figure
painting ; Ethel Stephens first for flower paint-
ing ; Dagmar Ross second for animal painting;
and Bernice Edwell first for miniature painting.
The Syd. Secessionists have reaped a fine
harvest. Both attendance and sales have been
healthily large. Norman Lindsay has established
perhaps a world’s record amongst contemporary
black-and-white men by his “Pollice Verso,”
bought for 150 guineas by the National Gallery.
The others, too, have done well. As usual, the
chief investors in artistic assets were A.
Douglas Hart, Prof. Spencer, rotund Theo.
Fink, and that wise man, L. Abrahams.
Yours affectionately,
J OHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER T RADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
SSvJ
riSfr)
&O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Ha geo, Ltd.
FOREIGN' STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
DENYERS* Emasculators
45/-
EACH.
For Castrating- Perfectly Horses, Bulls, etc.
Crushes before it cuts. Haemorrhage impossible,
DENVER. BROTHERS,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
and at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
RUDYARD'S PENNY GAFF.
Radyard Kipling marle a powerful plen at the Canadian
Club Ottawa, against the exclusion of Asiatics.
“ Ladies and gentlemen, as you all seem, to have
forgotten my poetry, let me introduce to you
two new little items which I think,” etc., etc.
Owing to the “iniquitous tariff,” Lipton,
the big British tea man, intends to establish a
tea-packing house in Australia.
Wade’s proposed remissions of taxation in
N.S.W. all relieve the richer classes, who are
a ready more lightly taxed in Australia than in
almost any other part of the world.
“Micawber”: Witnessed a pathetic in-
cident last week—am ex-M.L.A. paying his
tram-fare for the first time in seventeen vears.
the look of dumb hound-like appeal o'n the
unfortunate fellow s face I shall never forget.
Premier Wade promises to “ consider the
advisability” of the imposition of an Absentee-
tax. it will -if Ins purpose is carried through
somewhat mitigate the dishonesty of the proposed
income-tax remission.
Mr. Fisher is to be “ Chairman,” and not
leader, of the Australian Labor party, which sug’-
gests that, at least, there is no intention of ex-
tending the power of the position. Said by one
paper that in the event of the Labor party Chair-
man being “sent for” to form a Ministry he will
have to delegate the choice of his colleagues to
the caucus.
Wade, neatly, on Dan O’Connor’s wail re
not being able to “ see ” N.S.W. Agent-General
Loghlan, the other day.: “When a man is ‘out’
it may mean that he isn’t ‘in’ to irresponsible
callers from all parts of the world.”
Recent death of J. C. Heussler, M.L.C.
(Q.), cetat 88, suggests things. Ten members of
the Council average 77'5 years. Civil servants
retire at Co, and senile legislators can do far more
harm than over-aged Civil servants.
“Are there visions about?” Sydney
P ai lt Telegraph, discussing the application of
band ford s Iron Works for assistance, queries
doubtfully if it would not be better for the State to
take over the whole enterprise and run it as a State
.Department. But isn’t that Socialism—the thing
the D.T. isanti to? *
“In Switzerland disqualification from
military service is a matter for shame, and those
who are unable to pass the examinations for the
armed services, seek to gain entrance to one
branch or another of the various assistant troops
—the sanitary, supply, transport, intelligence, or
bureau departments.”—London Tribune, 17/9/’O7.
Kipling tells Canada that if she tries to
get along without the Celestial and the nigger
her glory will pass. This rebuke is called forth
by the Canadians’ anti-Jap attitude.
The shine upon your diadem,
Oh Canada, you cannot hope
To keep for long if you contemn
The lavish use of Monkey soap.
Justice Higgins, in the Federal Arbitration
Court lately:—
The demand for working people in Collingwood is in-
creasing by reason of increased manufactures. The more
work the more demand for houses, and the more demand
for houses the more rent.
.Tust so ! The landowner grabs the unearned
increment as usual. But a progressive tax on land
values would restore some at least of it to the
people.
Mr, Justice Higgins smote the Victorian
Wages Boards a heavy blow last week. When his
Honor denounced six shillings a day as a starva-
tion wage, counsel immediately interrupted that
some of the Wages Boards had fixed minimum
rates of pay for persons above 21 years of age at
from 30s. to 365. per week. The Judge’s reply was
a crusher: “ Wages Boards are not told to define
fair and reasonable conditions. lam!” And the
indictment is true.
The lot of the livery stable employee in
Melbourne is not a cheerful one. A statement
has been presented to the Government showing
that some of these men work from 16 to 20 hours
a day. One man is said to have put in 112 hours
in one week, which, at seven days a week, works
out at 16 hours a day. There is talk of a Wages
Board for the calling.
A recent House of Commons’ report on
shops and factories employment pathetically
states that, the keenness of modern industrial
competition demanding absolute cheapness in
production, the growing tendency in Great
Britain, where Freetrader so beloved a thing is
for the mother to oust the father as the family
breadwinner. Under these savage conditions
examples are cited where the family poverty com-
pelled mothers to return to the factories two or
three days after child-birth.
Local weepers over “Government interfer-
ence with Private Enterprise’' should cast a
thoughtful eye on Italy. Manv of the stone-broke
ancient families try to replenish the larder by
disposing of the surplus ancestor as painted by
an ‘‘old master.” The Government forbids
the export of ancient works of art, but
kindly offers, as a last resource, to take
them over at its own price. This is
generally about a quarter (or less) of
what a Yankee millionaire would
gladly pay, but the owner has either
to accept, or keep the picture to mind
the premises while he goes out and looks
for the indignity of work. The Govern-
ment gives itself power to search any-
body’s premises and catalogue his ancient
works of art, and if it comes again and
finds that some are missing it wants to
know where they have gone. Some time
ago, one family sold a masterpiece secretly
for £14,000, and the purchaser smuggled it
out of the country. Whereupon, the seller
was dragged to Court and fined exactly £14,000 !
That Tory woman’s convention has broken
the record for disgraceful lying. The S. M.
Herald of last Wednesday reports quite gravely :
The deportation of the Kanaka has, they said thrown
many hardships upon the women and children of the
North. The white man, who has partly filled the place of
the kanaka, is a menace to society, and no woman in
places where he is employed dares go out after dark.
The husbands of the women responsible for
this wicked slander on White Australians really
should lock them up, or smack them soundly. If
men talked like that in decent company, they’d
certainly be horsewhipped.
Charming Anti-Sosh suggestion by a cor-
respondent in Sydney Telegraph (29/10/’O7)
11 has often occurred to me that if our Government
established silos in the districts which are closely settled
upon, and in the plentiful seasons purchased front the
struggling farmer his surplus supply of fodder, re-sellin<>-
to hint again at a time like the present at something less
than the present prices, the State would derive immense
benefit from the transaction.
Petrie Watson, in “ The Future of Japan,”
points out that the circumstances helping the
erection of the Japanese navy are just the circum-
stances that will help Australia to build a navy
able to oppose the other navy :
The Japanese reform leaders were assisted rather than
embarrassed by the circumstance that there was neither
an army nor a navy when the powers of State came into
their hands. . . . They were able to begin at the be<dn-
mng ; almost unhampered by tradition, they were able to
fashion the country’s fighting machine, and to equip it
hi harmony with the surest principles deduced from
European experience.
The Age comments scathingly on the
strenuous efforts of the Conservatives to protect
Trusts and combines, foreign and local, from hos-
tile legislation, and expresses wonder at this atti-
tude of the Tories. But why should David be sur-
prised? Was Conservatism ever particular how
it robbed the people ? Has it ever failed to fight
strenuously for the preservation of ways and
means of robbing the people? Did it ever care
what company or companies it kept in the work
of spoliation ? Did it ever, even in its most
benevolent moments, cease to regard the masses
as the legitimate prey of the classes? Victorian
Conservatives battled for “thrift” a few years
ago because you can’t rob the improvident man he
having nothing to steal. They battle for Trusts
because even roguery is “cornered” nowadays
and a I rust is a rogues’ corner.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
admits * 1S GqUally valnable for children and
P. W. Crowe, of Brisbane,
who has been writing some things
for the local Courier, travelled
up from Gladstone to Townsville
with a man who, judging by his
complexion, he took to be one of
the new English immigrants.
Wanting to do the amiable, and
welcome the stranger, he got into
holts, and then ascertained that
the pink-cheeked, fleshy immi-
grant, presumably from Somerset
or Devon, had been for the
past 14 years farming in one
of the North Queensland dis-
tricts where “ the white man
can’t live.”
“Agricola Be “ San
Remo ” (B. 10/10/’O7) and
the Imported Shoddy Hat
Curse. A couple of
weeks ago I was dis-
cussing the tariff with
our storekeeper. Taking
me to his stock room he
displayed a consign-
ment of hats justarrived
from Italy. To all ap-
pearances they were a
first-rate article, but
our local Anthony
Hordern smiled when
he spoke of the effect
of a shower of rain on
those hats. They were
not made of felt at all,
but of wool prepared
in some manner that
made it look like felt.
We calculated that the
freight and duty handicapped those hats to the
extent of 57 per cent. Then he showed ine his in-
voices, and proved that they cost 8 per cent, less
to land here than the price of the Sydney-made
hat. The invoiced price of that imported head-
gear was los. 6d. per dozen. Obviously they were
the result of sweated labor somewhere, and the
only effective duty against this sort of rubbish is
about 300 per cent, ad valorem , or ss. per hat, or
total exclusion.
A weaK wealthy nation invites attack ;
and, when a convenient opportunity offers, will
most assuredly fall, like a fat duck, squawking
and virtuous, into the hands of the invading
hosts. \\ .M. Hughes, in National Review.
From a Westralian paper :
. federation has come to stay, and all the Secessionists
in this State might, figuratively speaking, be numbered
on the fingers of the hand of a child of two years old.
Gratifying; but why the hand of the two-year-
t/ * , Westralian two-yearers more fingers
than older or younger kids, or less, or what ?
The Women’s Leagues’ Commonwealth
Gonference calls for colored labor, 41 which is neces-
sary to develop the tropical territory.” These
women, they must have their touch of color. A
white Australia is advisable from a racial point
of view, but it should be skewbald in the interests
or business, and of course business comes first.
Australia can t be white for racial purposes, and
white and black on business principles. Those
colors always run, and when they run you get a
niongi el race. Ihe women of the Tory leagues
have voted for a mongrel Australia, but probably
the wretched democrats will continue to rob them
ot the privilege of dangling spotted grandchildren.
t The words of wisdom from
Polphinelle, ’ re the Labor party and the caucus
(±5. Jb/9/0 i) are well worthy of earnest considera-
tion. .twelve months ago, when the Argus
was raging in its editorial columns at the
caucus, I happened to overhear a prominent
and cute Melbourne Tory curse his pet journal
for so doing. “Rot,” he fumed. “Let ’em
have their dashed caucus. What’s the dashed
paper want to interfere for ? We’re right enough
as long as the caucus business holds. With that
gone, and capable Labor leaders on deck, we’ll be
just plain mud.”
There are still open to the States curious
little by-ways of Protection. Sydney Harbor
Irust discovered, the other day, that ships
from abroad brought gravel here as ballast:
and this cut into the local gravel business.
So differential harbor rates were imposed on
giavel unioaded at Sydney : Id. a ton for the
local, Cd. a ton for the foreign.
Queensland Parliament is the only one in
Australia in which members are not paid from the
date of election ; they have to worry through till
the date of the return of writ. Neither are they
allowed free postage. But in that respect they
are not alone; legislators in Groperland, the
r lyspeck, and the Ma State have to pay postage,
too, though Ma’s country members are given
£1 4d., and city members £1 ss. per month
to buy stamps with. Now Bananaland Assembly
members want the same lift.
In creating the last great N.S.W. surplus,
ex-Premier Garruthers batched quite a number of
economical chickens, and they are coming home
to roost to an extent that will seriously embarrass
Joseph s successor. For instance, Briner, M.L A
asks:— ”
.C) Is fact that nifiny existing school buildings are
in a dilapidated and insanitary condition, and quite unfit
for the purpose ?
V) the Minister put on the estimates at least
±lOO,OOO extra to put old schools and teachers’ resi-
dences into decent condition ?
Actor Macready to Frederick Pollock, in
1857:
I hope you have seen the account of the working of the
ballot in Australia. It has always been a persuasion of
mine that we shall learn the practical lessons of political
economy from our offshoots—from those who are not
afraid to experimentalise, and who have no clogs of
antique prejudice on their movements.
But. alas ! some of the clogs and the antique
prejudices and a whole lot of the rabbits were im-
ported, so things are not all they might be.
“ Michael Carr ” about boots :
“Stony” (B. 26/9/07), in referring to his Victorian-
made boots touches on p rimps the most progressive
industry built up by the late Victorian tariff. Twenty-
five years ago hardly any lines were made in Victoria
excepting what is known in the trade as “ strong work ”
that is, pegged and riveted kip-work for men’s work-
ing boots, and women’s and children’s strong boots. Now
every variety, of the finest materials, is manufactured.
Protection induced the strong-work manufacturers to
taite on light work, and in time each manufacturer
specialised his particular make, till this market is now
supplied at most reasonable prices with goods that would
be a credit to the oldest manufacturing countries.
CANADA AND JAPAN.
Japan is pleased with the attitude of the Canadian
authorities regarding the anti-Japanese outrages, but op-
poses the convention restricting the movements of
Japanese laborers. —TELEGRAPH.
THE JAP : “ Well, I must say that's a nice
respectful attitude, but just more your feet
away from that hole in the wall."
Aunty Sosh in Melbourne resolved that—
While this conference approves of the principle of
White Australia from the racial point of view, it con-
siders the importation of colored labor necessary for the
development of the Tropical Territory.
In other words, Aunty Sosh believes in keeping
the race pure, but the purse heavy ; and, on con-
sideration, it decides that the purse is of more
consequence than the race. Presumably, Aunty
wouldn’t mind marrying a Kanaka if he had
£5OOO a year—that, at any rate, is her own
argument.
The reason Australia has heard so little or
Anti-Sosh of late is now revealed. The Scarecrow
has gone to Britain. And, according to the cables,
Conservatives and Liberals are uniting to destroy
Socialism, and 70 societies have been formed to
combat it. The average Australian with the civic
records of Glasgow, Birmingham, Leeds and
London before him, was under the impression
that Britain understood Socialism fairly well, and
had got it so tamed down that it would feed out
of the hand. It was so till quite recently, and then
a doolc, or somethin’ like that, awoke, yawned,
sprang to his feet with a yell about robbery, spoli-
ation, and the break-up of the family. The papers
found that Socialism meant starvation and
national bankruptcy, because under it the country
wouldn’t produce enough food for its population,
and advocated that the two great parties should
refer the fiscal question to a Royal Commission,
and unite to destroy Socialism. Evidently Anti-
Sosh is something like measles or influenza—very
catching.
HE FELL IN.
MERCHANT: “ Are your habits all right?”
APPLICANT FOR POSITION: “ Yes, sir.”
MERCHANT (after a pause): “Do you drink?”
APPLICANT (absently): "Thanks, don't care if
I do.”
Last week when Justice Higgins, in the
Australian Arbitration Court, asked the repre-
sentative of Hugh McKay what he considered
should be the rate per day for unskilled labor,
Mr. Schutt promptly replied six shillings. Mr. Jus-
tice Higgins replied that he was sorry to hear it. So
is The Bulletin ; and so must every Australian
patriot be. What earthly chance has the laborer of
marrying and rearing a strong, vigorous family on
six shillings per day? The thing is impossible!
An industry must pay better wages than that to
be worth having. As Mr. Justice Higgins said,
men receiving six shillings per day are always
just on the brink of starvation. And a country
that keeps its working classes just on the brink
of starvation is always just on the brink of ruin.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is sure to be needed soon. Get it to-day. *
THE DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The net result of all this talk re disarmament is that
matters remain just as they were.—Press item.
The Lion called a meeting- of his brother beasts of Prey—
“’Tis time,” lie said, “we animals put wicked War
away.
And in response the Tiger came in state ; and from the
Nile
(A peaceful smile about his jaws) there came the Croco-
• due.
The Wolf, the Fox, the Jaguar—they likewise mustered
And from his rugged, rocky haunts there came the
Grizzly Bear ;
The anear' a £ lode in hooded state—the Eagle swooped
The hungry Jackal dogged his King with many a cun-
ning leer.
This meeting’s called,” the Lion said, “to help the
Cause of Peace, p
That bloody strife may leave the land, and wicked War
may cease ;
O, brethren mine, give heed to me, and bid your passions
pause,
And let the Surgeon take his tools and draw your teeth
and claws.
“I cannot let him nip my nails—my health will not
allow ;
Btttl wUI always keep them sheathed in velvet soft—as
And as to teeth—the ones I wear are little more than
sham ;
They’d never hurt a sucking-pig, or prick a baby lamb.”
The Tiger said—“ I’m all for Peace—l hate the sight of
Blood ; h
But draw my teeth ! ’ —l promised Ma I never, never
would ! ”
The Jackal and the Jaguar they wept their eyelids raw,
But said that Peace was best maintained by them that
wore a claw.
The Cobra swore his venom-bag was but a sac of bile ;
“My jaws are just for ornament! ” exclaimed the Croco-
dile ;
The Eagle cried—“ My curling beak must always go with
me &
That I may guard from Wicked Birds my little Familee.’’
And then they sang together—“ What a cruel thing is
War ! °
It makes our little bosoms lust for other creatures’ gore ;
But we must hang- to every fang till other creatures cease
To cart around such horrid things and break the blessed
Peace ;
For, sure as Fate, there’ll be no end to ravin foul and red,
Lnless we keep our claws on hand and teeth within our
head ! ”
Q.
FURNESS BORN.


You Never Know What Effect a Letter
has, so be sure it is.written right!
Your letters are your representatives in ink. They give to the
reader a distinct impression of you —the writer.
You would not be photographed in an old patched suit —surely it
is more important that your representative in ink looks well.
You, as a business man, know this; but the heavy cost of the other
standard machines has stood in the way.
The Briton
costs less than half, and it will do perfectly the work of any typewriter of twice the cost.
-V.
It has every feature of the other
leading standard machines. It is a stan-
dard typewriter improved fay simplicity.
We can show you as a business man
how to make the Briton return its cost
in six months.
Every machine carries a guarantee,
and we hold enthusiastic testimonials
from every part of Australasia.
Write for full description of the Briton
typewriter, and particulars of our ten
days' trial —free. Write now.
Southern Sales Ltd.,
284 George Street, Sydney- (Box 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne. 7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Being specialists in modern office furniture and appliances for saving time and
errors, and increasing results, we direct your attention to the following proved lines :
Yale Combination Lock Safes
Roll and Flat-top Desks
Office Chairs
Vertical Filing Cabinets
„ Storage „
Sectional Book Cases
Card Systems
and
Perry Time Stamps
Thexton Envelope Sealers
Taylor Bros/ Thermometers
Defiance Check Protectors
Pelouze Office Scales
System Magazine and
System Publications,
. The Sheldon School of Scientific Salesmanship.
(All Instruction by Correspondence.)
All our catalogues and any information supplied are free. You incur no obligation whatever in asking for them.
Wear the...
Well-known
PERFECTS SHIRT
For Everyday Wear it
cannot be beaten.
Ready to Wear.
In Oxford Materials.
5/6
Fifty Patterns to
(Select from.
diiMiaai
i
si
U
U If*;
*})
K 5
&
\\
I
m
m
Also the
Celebrated
"CESTUS" SHIRT <**.)
For Country Wear. Ready to
Wear, in Ceylon Materials,
5/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED
300-310 BOURKE STREET, ITELBOURNE.
P.&B. PAINT
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS
1 If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
Of invaluable assistance in insulating electric wires and connections,
dynamos and motor bases, battery and accumulator shelving, circuit and
switchboards. In fact, for all electrical work it will be found of a highly
satisfactory character, preventing grounding and short circuiting, while
danger from fire is rendered impossible.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Makes you look manly
flrler
Before
CAPILLARINE Never Fails.
If you have not used Capillarine you cannot know how
sure it is in the production of a Moustache.
It was the first preparation of its kind in Australia more
than 20 years ago, and is still the best.
If you want to grow a Moustache —there’s ONE thing
that will do it for you, and that is CAPILLARINE.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, 10/6.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
26 Years.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily.
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take up sole District Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns, and other fast sf.lt,ino
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George Street, Sydney.
Rg:
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne;or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
Publications.
Translated French Novels (Some Illustrated).
Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue Free on receipt of Getter postage),
A. DE SAILLE, 20 Rue de la Miohodlere, Paris.
NEW SONGS.
ONLY 7d. EACH.
I Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
Way Down Yonder in the Cornfield—Bull and
Bush—The Dear Old Home—The Waiter—
We Close at Two on Thursday—What a Mouth—Good-bye
Sweet Marie—Bombay—Good-bye London Town—l’d Like to
Go Halves in That—Picture No Artist Can Paint—Valley of
Kentucky—Would You Care—l’ll Be With You When The
Roses Bloom Again—Waltz Me Around Again—Day By
Day—Mansion of Aching Hearts—Down on the Farm—ls the
Old Home in the Same Place—Lads in Navy Blue—As Yotir
Hair Grows Whiter—Nicey Nicey—Tooral Looral—Anona.
STAR NOVELTY Co., 229 Collins St. Melbourne.
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TlME—They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS.
0
cniiDfiN
WAVS
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS— !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY*
Therefore, when shopping', say
GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.


A NURSE’S RECOMMENDATION.
, l ua lified nurse admittedly ranks next
to the doctor as an authority on the treatments
ot general ailments and womanly weaknesses,
ohe is therefore able to judge and competent to
speak of the wonderful efficacy of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills as a remedy for all complaints
originating from disorders of the stomach, liver
and kidneys, and other ailments, from what-
ever cause arising. Nurse Johnstone, of Hackett
lerrace, Charters Towers, Q., writes:—“l have
much pleasure in recommending your splendid
remedy, Dr.
Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, the
merits of which
are supported by
my own personal
experience. For
ten years I have
used them oc-
casionally, and
they have assisted
Nature in the
fulfilment of her
functions during
my advancing
years. lam now
t>o years of age,
enjoy wonderful
health, and am
entirely free from
ache or pain.
During the past
ten years in my
capacity of a nurse
, , I have always re-
commended your pills, and I still do so, as they
are tvi gentle but sure and effective medicine,
suitable for young 1 and old. lam sure if the
young women would only use your remedy occa-
sionally and study their health there would be
far less sickly and ailing wives. They would do
well to take a course of these pills and endeavor
to overcome their weakness, and thus, in the years
after the period of child-bearing they might live
in comfort, free from the ailments which so many
are afflicted with in their declining years. Again,
J heartily recommend your remedy to women.”
ALE & LA6CR
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
West Austalian Agents—Messrs. E. H.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
POWLIN& ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Apologue ended the long discussion as to
the merits of the stable companions bv winning’
the Melbourne Cup, with Mooltan and Mountain King
second and third respectively. He won with7st. 91b up
while Mooltan carried an extra couple of pounds and
Mountain King 31b. less. As far as is possible to judge
the result is a great and overwhelming victory for Ikev
O’Flaherty, who used to be known as Christian Moses.
* * * *
Saturday’s racing at Flemington was unusually
tame for a Derby day, and it left the public with no new
subject of disputation for the Melbourne Cup. Not that
Mountain King didn’t make friends by his apparently
easy win in the Derby. There were some who thought
the big son of Wallace could have won in record
time if he had been pushed. On the other hand
it was argued that a Derby run in 23sec’
slower time than was credited to little F.J.A. four
years ago did not put the staying power of Mountain
King to the test. A finely-proportioned giant, with anv
amount of breathing-room, the “King” is perhaps the
most awkward galloper (viewed from the rear) on the list
of Derby winners. To win the Cup, it was evident he
would need to have more stamina than nags of the
Poseidon stamp, who make no trouble of getting over the
ground. The difficulty with Mountain King 011”, Saturday
was to straighten him up for an effort, but as soon as
Hickey had got the colt in hand, he “ larruped ” along
in commanding style.
Nevertheless, there was still the natural sus-
picion that he might have “gone to pieces ” in a bump-
ing race if the opposition had been stronger The
favorite was neither bumped nor bustled. His most
likely opponent, Welcome Trist, came with a belated
run, and finished at the neck of Peru, who was a length
behind the favorite, but the effort was too late to give
the winning jockey any concern. So the doubt as to
Mountain King’s stamina remained to be settled in the
Cup.
Melbourne Stakes has foreshadowed the Cup
result in many previous years. This year the stable com-
panions, Poseidon and Apologue, had the finish to them-
selves, with the “ champion ” winning as easily as was
expected, considering- that he was meeting Apologue on
351 b. better than their Cup terms. As for Tartan the
old hero gave no comfort to his backers. He appeared
to be outpaced all the time. But on this occasion
Apologue certainly showed in front at the turn for home
which caused punters to remark that he had never
carried his 30-odd pounds lighter weight in front of
Poseidon in the Caulfield Cup race.
Seobie s stable has a talent for giving- punters a
painful surprise in classic events. When F.J.AwonThe
Derty he defeated a couple of more fancied mates in
out'at'l'J S ,"' eefc Neib On Saturday Mother Goose, going
M anbyrnong Plate, finished four
lengths ahead of Kuban, who carried the stable’s money
winner "wh-h ’r^ 3 ’* r Th? public would have fancied the
winner with Bobby Lewis on her back. With little
SSS&XMr“• «*"<*• They
Indirectly, the results of the two handiean
bourne's? 6 ,^ Urther ° redit the Mel-
bourne Stakes winners. A week previously May King
was well backed for the Moonee Valley Clip (which he
won) on the strength of his having run 1 second to
Poseidon in the Eclipse Stakes at Caulfield. And now
Tulkeroo was fancied for the Hotham Handicap, because
b , ” I •XIbeat 1 beat May K,n g at Moonee Valley. The hand-
some Tulkeroo won prettily from Carl Dour—a per-
oricTinr *° odenou £ bto have brought him to a shortish
puce for Melbourne Cup, if l,e were a proved stayer.
As it was, his victory went to confirm the “Poseidon
dtv’' Tnl And /a Q \ he oobul ' g ' Stakes, the last race of the
hmv’hp no comfortably, thereby explaining
KanrlwinWW "V ve Mountain King a tight w.f.a race at
other week. Nothing goes much faster
foi a mile than leggy lolaire, when he is in the humor.
* * * *
Talking of Carl Dour, the gee figures on the
card as the property of Messrs. McLachlan and Hopwood,
whit^Jh^ 001lors are ai y en as “McLachlan tartan,
white sash whereas Mountain King’s colors are “ Tartan
(mere tartan), with dark blue sleeves and cap.” There’s
CaH lm r)n3 a SC ? ttiS !j Pri ? e "! the announcement that
S„®°" r brand u of plaid is sacred to the
Hon nf h th C an ‘ T ° thaworld in general any combina-
J,' “ f n t !! lee or more tints in a check pattern means
taitan, even as a dog of very mixed breed stands for
Dossihddv nf BUt tbe MeKachlan departure offers the
possibihty of a more enlightened and braw time in store,
when every Mac will register the colors of his Hieland
ancestors, and the jockey will be required to carry out
his instructions in a kilt. y
* * * *
See The Lone Hand this month for its sporting
interest. Of Many Cups,” by the late Frank Myers, I
There°?mnnh ep f h onle of Australia ’ s greatest horse-race.
There s much other sporting matter, and scores of good
stories, verse, articles, etc.* b
* * * *
er « he J iol i' : Jf ave just returned from watch-
Tltp cricket match in Westralia.
f , eehn g- inspired by these Englishmen is one of
disappointment because of the lack of variety Not a
batsiimn among them possesses the brilliancy of Trumper,
but they are sound run-getters. Fane, Jones, Hayes
in' imift nf ra H tord> - w Hardstaff have all their partialities
enf f th /‘ I w,cket > rather than wristy play behind
the nn Kk p., and th !j "l?? 0 * ty ,. of the runs were scored from
miiet vef F w nlad “ the first, century of the tour with a
quiet, jet not unattractive innings. The best disnlavs
Crawfo?d Se hoih th % ntt h e Notts pro ’’ Ha rdstalf, and
Crawford, both of whom went for the bowline-
“ Hor t i?nff U ” I ri Th f e c ™ wd Promptly christened Hardstaff
Hotstuff. Crawford is an athletic youngster in e-lasses
who hits hard without an apparent effort! and thnes
U n 'n a bowler he wiH P rove dangerous, turn-
rnedimn-bhn/'h™ the ,°fi afc a bttle faster pace than
medium but his most dangerous delivery is a fast
one with the pace cleverly masked. Blythe, Rhodes,
Baines and Braund all seem to have struck form
Tn fl' V m^' th n, th f ball, tbe left-handers in particular.
In fielding, the team is particularly strong, and the slips
comprising Jones, Braund, and Hayes, are likely to have’
the scalps of some of our cracks. Summed up, it is a
fnr ,i 1 o fh° UnSr ’ ener B' etlc Players, who will play the game
for all they are worth. All good run-getters, their main
strength is their fielding and the deadly accuracy of their
bowling, and they look as though they can be relied
upon to put up a grim struggle for tbe ashes.
* * * *
rS Wlll find ? n the November number of
™L°ne Hano a most interesting account of the men
pen 0 of Mr° G M J " sfc - a T ved En B’Hsh XI. It is from the
pen ot Mr. G. M. Long-Innes, who, when he wrote had
just arrived from down-under, where he had at various
times seen the w'hole of the men playing this year He
te!m P an e d y nro mohSheS , the , the( F y that it is a second-class
team, and proves amply that it is one of the strono-est
bowling combinations that ever visited this country,
while it is among the best batting teams. His remarks
Perth 6 1 bor " e ° Ut by the sha P in B' of the invaders at
* * * *
The fourth round of First-Grade Cricket com-
Mhmi e ß d w n ; Sydney ? n Saturday under ideal conditions.
SI b <°i!' s . macked U P 19fi - and, University going in
made 48 for the loss of a single wicket, so that with nine
wickets in hand the Collegians require 149 runs to win
Sydney s position with Paddington is hopeless as the
metropolitan club made onl.y 108, and' paddington
wfckefc “ft ?n tChed 175 !? V ihe loss of one
wicket. Of these runs, Garnsey and Iredale
were responsible for 73 and 65 respectively
IlfTo J h a perfect ' v ‘C k et, made 286 against Bui wood
the latter not getting to the sticks till ten minutes
n ! IX ’/ en , th ? y promptly lost a wicket for 10
runs Gordon had a bleak time before the bowlers of
of Shem’ ,Sn ! n tak,r ' 8 ' for 34 > and Kerim, the son
out for’ with two for 18. Gordon was all
Fh-st GrJ? i T S Brands flrst appearance in
hirst Grade, and he seems to have scorched
Gordons chances very severely. Redfern then
lost three wickets for SO. The best play of
sham^Yhe I hoh 16 f°i‘ Sydne y-Petersham match. Peter-
sham, the baby club, had never a hope against the hill-
men. Johnson took six of their wickets for 33 runs
for h llO V Wh° re v or o 36 I rUnS ’ and the side was w iP ed out
tor 110. When N. Sydney went in, Alphabetical White
got t b o°r!lh d f °‘ o 3 ’ shen5 hen Borman Deane and R. A. Duff
got together, and when stumps were drawn one wicket
fTIO5 W and r D 2 « • Norman Deane carried his bat
for 105 and Duff was just one behind him. Central'
Cumberland, playing a man short, is in a tight place with
Balmain, which got C.C. out for 177, and then waded in
four*wickets goi?e. tbat 109 Were ° n board with only
♦ *
„J n v W f U l} b , in r ha PP en ed at Adelaide on Satur-
Sturt alde ta fK l ? d the P remi er cricket team,
Sturt, and made an exhibition of it. On tbe first day
rescindnt^de 6 ? 39 j a . ,os . s of three wickets, and oil
resuming declared the innings closed. Of the total
Gehrs.made 181 and Waters 103. Then the premiers
th c f Ck -S and Port fell upon them, breaking
dow n their defence and smashing them right up. The
made Vanished for a miserable 127, of which Darling
„ Cricketer- Garnsey is dropping out of N.S.W.
thnt’rvfn cl '!P keL °"' ln ? pressure of business. Possible
that Connol 3% a younpr left-hand bowler who has been
bowl.ng fmCy in grade cricket, will be given his place
attack variation!" badly ” eedS 3 left - hand cr to give its
* * •» *
Sydney Grammar School boys E. P Barbour
Schoo ' m 6l Were f -1'- flne . hatting form against King’s
, o C r P , eklt ' on T Cket > t,ofcher ''ay, putting to-
f', ' ,% ® Lhools .record partnership of 325 runs in 24
Thus flJ'rhL SC ° nn = and harbour 171 (both retired*
Thus far this season kisher has scored 607 runs in four
Sgs ’ a " Barb ° Ur 443 rltns in three completed
* * * *
J a ™, nt ’ tbe All-round ex-Victorian cricketer,
,-I h ho h t • be . e r n P'aymg so well on London cricket grounds
is ba,ck in Melbourne for the summer. The Vic? Cricket
Association has notified the other States that lie will play
this season in the inter-State fixtures on his birth qualifi-
cation, and it is understood no objection will be raised
Victoria will also play Maekav, the ex-N.S.W craek bat
who has been acquired via South Africa. The pair will
strengthen the weak Victorian eleven ; but it is noT a
uosin< aC th° B ry ’'' ethod ' Some P e °Ple in Victoria are pro-
posing the returned Tarrant as a candidate for Australia
against the Englishmen, but as the little Victorian Is
going back to London again at the end of the season, his
inclusion would be resented by all Australia. A proposal
once made that Murdoch, when properly domiciled in
Lngland, should play against the Australians, was
promptly sat upon.
More than possible that there will be no Austral
meeting this year. Although it is now only a few weeks
j°„ , e UBl, al date for holding- the meeting- nothin"-
definite as regiirds the programme has been adooted by
the M. 8.0. The last announcement was that the lace
would be held over a grass track at Melbourne Cricket
Ground, and since then-silence. Track cycling is in a
bad way in Melbourne. The unregistered racing is play-
ing havoc with it, and the men who have remained loyal
to the League have little chance for practice, as the
asphalt track at St. Hilda has been torn up, and the one
at the Exhibition is not available owing to some ladies
holding an exhibition of ole clo’ and patchwork therefor
a few weeks. Said that MacEarland and some others will
lay down a wooden track near Princes Court, but so far
that is merely in the air.
* * * *
• Bl,clcler > blacksmith, of Terang (Vie.),
is charged with having “ placed an obstruction on a road
whereby life and limb are likely to be endangered, con-
trary t° seet lon 15, sub-section lof Act 1226.’' The case
which has to do with alleged tack-sprinklin^
mh eS Th °n a I Vict ° rial ? Court °n Tuesday, November
J The Dunlop Co. has engaged a well-known Vic-
tonan barrister to help the prosecution.
* * * *
• ! Vl d Providence showed a proper respect
forthe rights of the dear old Ma State on Saturday, when
the scheme of things was so arranged that at theAustra-
{J? 1 n ' s bug Championships meeting at Brisbane
Mutton and W. S. Knox, both of N.S.W., won the Half-
Mile and Ten Mile Championships respectively. Taken
all round, the meeting appears to have been'a mighty
poor one, and the appearances all indicate that cyclic"-
has struck the Glacial Period. y
The proposal to form a small syndicate to run a
three nights cycling carnival on the Sydney Cricket
Ground track isa welcome move. Sydney enjoys the night
cycling at the Cricket Ground, and if the wheelers would
only run straight there ought to be money in it for pro-
moters and riders. The trouble is, of course, that there
are too many men in Sydney who want to live on the
?et le i’ntn < Vh e f? 1 "- 6 won ’ fc u carr y them - So when they
get into the business they are driven by sheer
necessity to divide the purses and generally plav
" p - , was really this class of cyclist who
brought about the cessation of the Summer Nights
C ? rn uf S_t ?u crooks ” never dreaming that the League
would have the backbone to stop all racing if it could
h°L? Uaran i < :? .straight running. Now that lesson has
been learned it is just possible that a meeting in January
would be a success. It is 18 months since there was any
mght racing under the League, and most of the men who
used to live by the wheel have been forced to find some
?^ r .f eans .“ f making a crust. Also, in other ways the
time is propitious for a revival of night racing. Mac Fa-
r d ’ a w °) der . and a w i ser man > is here, accompanied by
whß h’ h ° - ha * I,nl ’T Ved a lot Also > there A. J. Clarke y
dizzv ha hei"m r a ° ved h away , out of si ° hr - and climbed to
dizzy heights where lie associates with Kramer
himself. And in addition to these there will be Elle-
gaard, and perhaps JDickentmann here in January. With
no track racing” talent available ’ it; seems a Pity to have
In addition to turning out about 75 per cent of
the rubber goods used in Australia and making £24 654
on last year s dealings after writing down plant, etc. the
big Dunlop Rubber Co. has given its attention to the
thev'n g ° f Ut ° f !! 0 A t ‘ Ca '' ds of lovel .V women. Vei-y nice
bbey vm’ t 0 an ? the P ros Pect of riding a bike out into
the wilderness where such a girl may sing without inter-
-ISy?’,l?h f° sefc a)1 Australia biking. At present
the output of Dunlop tyres in Australia alone is 7(J00 per
week or 364,000 per annum, so there is no reason why
one shouldn’t ride outto meet the girl. y
Demegeot, who finished second in the Brescia
wl Ul dr aCe ’ ° ne n? f the bi S£est of Continental speed con-
tests, drove right over the 301 miles of hilly country
v. ithout once changing his tyres. The ordinary practice
in speed contests is to change tyres every 50 miles and
Demegeot was believed to have gone mad when he faded
to puli up. No one dreamed that the new steel-studded
Dunlop tyres he used would be capable of standing the
friction of 301 miles at 64 miles an hour. But the onlv
sign of wearing was the loss of one steel stud Iy
S, F. Edge, ex-Sydney boy, and now nrincinal
owner in the Napier Co., issued a’challenge to any eam
of Continental cars to pit themselves against a team
Napier cars over the BrookCd* course fo,-
fhe stak n 1 £ f pr ° n } pt invitation to make
the stake £lO,OOO, which Edge did, and an Italian firm
understood to .be the famous FIAT, took up the chal-
lenge. This is the firm that employs the famous driver
Nazzaro who has swept the board at the three leading-
events of the year on the Continent. Racing on a road
a " d rai ;| n ° °n Brooklands track, where for short dis-
verv difff, SP f d haS soared up t 0 92 i miles an hour, are
verj different propositions, as the Yanks sav and the
chances are that till some other country puts down a
similar track, Brooklands course will become the reobe--
nised centre of the automobile world.
* 9 * * .*
• The who makes pedigrees is af
tunes, a shade too reckless. In the Victorian Mallee
loc.ali,y a person who owns a stallion advertises with
enthusiasm that his animal is a dark chestnut bit of
meat, rising two years, and that it is “ by Seaforth Hieh-
lander out of Jess by Bombo (imp.). Bombo won the
Derby several times before leaving England.” I have
struggled hke a demon with the list of Derby winners
and can t find the name of Bombo anywhere in the
records of the last half-century. And how a race that
open only to three-year-olds could be won se “ral timfs
Yet Bombo 6 ntl ? al bo ® s ° nl .V the ghost of Moses knows,
yet Bombo, the animal that won the Derby several times
is .only a fraction of the pedigree. It includes “ Bar von’
”h°e f fist A Af lbourne Cup ” (as4he animal is emitter!
? f , w, s” er T s » only Providence knows when
e f . ata J? eed )» fisherman, who “won 70 races
befoie leaving England”; King Fire way “ w'ho beat
'ma' l trotters in a contest near London ” (that is at
least, better than beating Greek asses in a contest close
A 1 n UnUed states) ; and “ Flying Buck, winner of the
fust Champion Race, the largest prize ever won in Aus
“Chamnion l address > a,id value of this amazing
Champion Race aren t even mentioned. And the
brute which is alleged to own all this pedigree and a lot
more-the whole affair runs to about half a column-^
bTocksat!S?f a ee. ,OSt She6P r ° Und the ViCtolia “ back ’
® Athletic Library continues to arrive
The latest arrival is No. 23 of Group 11., which deals with
l 0" J ,' ootball .> ar ' d i-s intensely interesting for all
of footbaH. pleaSUre ln that most anc ient and elegant form
* * *
London Alpine Club celebrates its iubilee The
early members had to face a lot of ridicule Even
this statei) letfp^in' ° re fere to" I Yiou n fc 0 ” IffancT - —lt
is a somewhat remarkable fret that - anClfc
KS We n,ade th --e„lha a vfe
Al£S?ttS fo y be S r^ ne^ S PrinCe
joy even when one has arrived °„ b Heaven^ 6 A M
E N P oo wi? f h m %h , tful breeze Wowing Sny from th.
to turquoise in theVstancirThe^best picture of the* 1 ™ 64
“ Come aboard. ‘ Ind they lame and A h dmiral sl ~ llal| ed
masterpiece in black and white-save for 7k to *
F f ?<?£ WSrsr jnrlrß
there/ l' To »V'Marshal! was
beaming as the father of the club should d $° ld, r , and
modore Saxton also looked a regular old seadog w^'
had rKvs r® atb'irr" a P*“»
lipSKESiil
ajjf .•srr.oitui-vi ss
position taken up by the Victorian body certainly wifi
ot give Saxton s boat a fair run for the Cup I but if it
glory! 0 Sp ‘ te ° f fche heav >’ handicap, so much ffierlhe
Sydney Flying Squadron made a great show on
a St
n , , a ft ec *y was that it was all wasted effort Tho
starter s boat had lost half its flags, and many of the bJats
Bat E guesswork. The squadron dashed into Taylor
beseen d but o the, f 0 roUndi,1 «' mark-noSe wafte
S”h s&pt
cit Vh°ie r h fnlfi’n h f e rh fu c y i . ma^ined one - and took a short
last shab be fi.sr ed Th e Scr,ptures > " hich sa Jeth that the
declaied off. Nevertheless it made a fine picture.
gulling championship articles were signed
wifh yL T f ldde f r , Sydney last week, and forw rded
l eP ° S t 0 Maojiland. The difficulty in getting
k y worried Tresidder, but sufficient pro-
proceeding vri f hYSk in to J ustif - v the Australian in
proceeding with thechallenge. Tresidder further insisted
gat°e n mone r v fc - 10 th^ n th ® ° rigin f a !r articles re expenses and
t.ate-nioney , these were granted by Webb and the gate
* * • *
Major Richardson, of the British rifle team
heYs a® mie-htv 6 1' Sh °. and a niagniflcent coach, but,
suhseouenf tn the d spo an ’ judging by his remarks
subsequent to the walloping received by his men at the
hands of Australia and Maoriland. Richardson had the
. r ° nfc ?. r T fco assert, despite the immense disparity of the
feam fn'finn"!^ 1811 SCo '' eS ’ tbafc St was theerror of his
YY4iY g 4 the wrong- target which was responsible
th o , t I ? ! ng ' tle Inafcc b- The actual loss occasioned by
the mistake was only 12 points, which left a considerable
to accounTw?h" te p f ° r - , B - ,fc Ric bardson proceeded
threw^ °U"* forthes f bvexplammgthat the interruption
u tbe , nlen oufc of their stride.” How that
r, !d „ haV ' e happened to members of the team not
understn nCe w ned , ln the mistake is difficult to
the d errnv« d f’ any £?™’ the scores of the men who made
the dew i°- , exhl , blt a sufficient slump to slur over
oenalfv Il ! <:h ardson evidently forgets that the
penalty of making an error is all in the game and
firing 01 ! th at OSS ° f points is a small penalty to pay for
nn at the wrong target. The man who would fire at
would he^ibt^ 6 - ”f- the c . alnl atmosphere of the parade
Ch cf fni. ’ u J ime war - to fill his Commander-in-
hosHle nnrpm ? lle « T de T the belief that he was the
Richardson s speech is a new variant
are beaten maXmi that the Engllsh never know when they
THE MALIGNING OF MALONEY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Decent fellow, Dan Maloney
(To a cobber and a crony),
With a tendency to women, wine and horses !
But he’d recently been fretting
None the better of the betting,
And was fairly at the end of his resources.
Not a Chinaman had struck
Such a rotten run o’ luck ;
Every “ certainty ’’had finished, with the rotters, in the
ruck.
They had broken Dan Maloney ;
Made him absolutely “ stony ”;
And he cursed the day he ever saw the courses.
Yet, though luck be most infernal,
There’s a “ hope that springs eternal,”
And that fills the punter’s bosom with elation.
He was broken altogether,
But began to wonder whether
He could possibly relieve the situation.
He was fairly stony-broke,
And it wasn’t any joke
If he couldn’t chance to hit upon a bright and happv
stroke; l
But it came, and seemed supernal,
As he read The Punters’ Journal,
And related to a Eagsall Consultation.
He decided, for a start, he
Would contrive to form a party
That would speculate in fashion systematic ;
Pool a tenner or a pony,
And then leave it to Maloney,
Who’d the wisdom of the wily Asiatic !
He considered it was best
(That is what he told the rest)
In the smaller consultations, not the larger, to invest.
The approval of the party—
Or the syndicate—was hearty ;
And its confidence decidedly emphatic 1
When the members had invested
As Malonej' had suggested
He was good enough to let ’em know the numbers ;
But he didn’t show the tickets.
If they thought it was a trick, it’s
Pretty sure it didn’t hurt Maloney’s slumbers !
Let me tell you with regret
Which I’m not quite over yet
That Maloney used the money of the syndicate to bet.
And the cash was not invested
In the way he had suggested,
And he’d given mere imaginary numbers 1
’Tis the habit of the Devil
When he lures us on to evil
And from paths of righteous rectitude would turn us
To make sinfulness look easy !
Very slippery and greasy
Is the sloping path descending to Avernus !
And Maloney by his guile
Carried on in splendid style,
But at last a bogus number was the same that won the
pile !
And the Club went off their level
In a wild unholy revel —
They were joyous, very joyous, for a very little while !
Not a cobber nor a crony
E’er again saw Dan Maloney !
He vanished like the mist before the morning!
And his name they are maligning
As a villain most designing,
And his memory his fellows join in scorning !
They believe, of course, that Dan
Has become a wealthy man ;
That the published ticket-holder was a party to the plan !
But they all malign Maloney,
For he once again is “ stony,”
Not, as they suppose, some foreign Court adorning !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
BROOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
And so, it seems, the burbling Brook
The sinful dust of cycle racing
Prom off his pedal-pushers shook,
And takes instead to Bethel-gracing.
To higher things does he aspire
Than cycling, with its perils dire.
When mighty winners give a pledge
That on the track temptations revel,
Perdition must the losers hedge,
For with the hindmost sprints the Devil!
But, though his help they most require,
Brook looks—and leaves them in the mire.
N.S.W.
N ULLA.


KUGELMANN’S
i
©
©
m
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
(1. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE £ 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
ALL GOOD AUSTRALIANS (by either birth or
**■ adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Apply for petition forms to !
JOHN B. STEEL, 192 Oastlereagii Street, SYDNEY.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1 /<• and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Larga Pagas
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mri Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“REFEREE ” says !—“ The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL <O/ London),
“ 'Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Pill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
?■/,
r
There is no part of your cyc-
lin'.; experience which you
enjoy more thoroughly than
That Glorious
Coast,
and there is no period when
your safety is more depend-
ent on the efficiency of
your brake control, and the
reliability of the machine
you ride. The reliability
of the bicycle built from
Eadie Fittings
is beyond question, and the
efficiency of the brake con-
trol of the
EftDIE
eoasTER
is such as to ensure your
safety under all conditions.
This is the coaster with
the simple brake—simple
in construction simply
applied, and its free-wheel
is absolutely frictionless.
[Ask your Dealer.]
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
Birmingham Small Arms Co.,
Ltd., 4 Stock Exchange Build-
ings, Collins St., Melbourne.
Works: Redditch, England
...YOU® FORTUNE...
GL©
0
SEND me your name and address, date of birth, sex, married or single, with 1/- Stamps or Postal Note, and
I will send you a Horoscope of your life from the cradle to the grave, absolutely FREE. I will tell
you just what to do to become happy, andean so lay the future before you that you will bless the day you
first wrote to me. When you look around among your acquaintances and can see those who are successful
both in family matters and in business and money matters, who you know are not smarter than you are
yourself, don’t you often think well “THAT’S THEIR LUCK, BUT I HAVE HAD BAD LUCK” you say to
yourself ; now let me tell you something, and there is no question about it, they are successful because they
have been advised by some competent astrologer. This you can put down as certain.
Read What a Few of My
Patrons say:
I followed the advice you gave me, and every-
thing has turned out grandly. Charley and I
are now married, and in our happiness we pray
that you may live long to continue your grand
and noble calling. NELLIE A.
Your wonderful power is beyond my under-
standing. You not only told me about affairs
that I thought no one knew anything about,'but
all you predicted came true. Mrs. LUCILEA.
I bless the day when I wrote to you—it was
the turning point in my life—both in family and
money matters. HIRAM G.
Following your advice about becoming an
actress, lam now on the road to fame and fortune.
My last season was a complete success, and I
now have many flattering offers from several
managers, and just to think when I first wrote
to you I was only a poor country girl with no
future. I owe it all to you, dear Professor. How
can I ever pay you ? GRACE K.
REMEMBER! I send you this Horoscope
absolutely FREE. Don’t hesitate a moment, but
write at once and I will prove to you just what I say.
I have made thousands happy and prosperous, and
can do the same for you.
/ Tell You About Your
BUSINESS AFFAIRS
FAMILY AFFAIRS
LOVE AFFAIRS
WEALTH j
HEALTH
LUCKY DAY
UNLUCKY DAY
MARRIAGE
CHARACTER
DON’T DELAY, send Tor FREE
Horoscope at once.
Simply send me your name and address, birth, date, sex, married or single,
with I/- Stamps or Postal Note, and I will do the rest.
Shakespeare said:—“ The stars above us govern our conditions.” Wby should you doubt? Send at once
and learn what the stars have to tell you.
Address: PROF. H. DE ASTRO, 366 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Vie.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon Jfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
r rifii Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing lieacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
COLUFGIA
becmw
\Cylinderj (5 Ducj.
93
JUST ARRIVED.
The World Famous
“MERRY WIDOW” WALTZ
{New Process CYLINDER, No. 57,391,
24th Infantry Band, Berlin. 116 each.
New Process lOin. DISC, No. 12,752,
72nd Infantry Band, Vienna. 3/- each.
ONCE HEARD, NEVER TO BE FORGOTTEN.
Over a quarter of a million copies of this Waltz were sold in London within a few weeks of its production.
This selection has been specially recorded by the Columbia Co., and, as the demand for it is phenomenal,
you should SEND YOUR ORDER AT ONCE.
COLUMBIA RECORDS FIT ALL MAKES OF TALKING MACHINES.
They are made by a NEW PROCESS recently discovered by our experts.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. GEN’L,
Wholesale anti Retail, 255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
London, New York, Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg.
\
rp t
,
V * *A
R
TYRES
SQUARE
TREADS.
The Continental
Square Tread
Tyre has estab-
lished a world-
wide reputation
for durability.
And its popu-
larity is wide-
spread—in Eng-
land, the United
States, France,
Germany, here
at home in Aus-
tralia—in fact,
wherever Mo-
toring is in-
dulged in to any
extent, you will
find the Conti-
nental Square
Tread Tyres to
the front.
Sydney Depot:
Clarence Street.
mts
NON-
SKIDS.
There is no bet-
ter Tyre made
for use on wet
roads than these
Continental
Non-Skids, and
every day wit-
nesses an in-
creased demand
for them by
Australian mo-
torists.
These Tyres
have distin-
guished them-
selves in nearly
all the big mo-
toring events of
the past season.
Ask to see these
CONTINENTAL
NON-SKIDS.
Melbourne Depot:
46 & 48 Market St.
: c> to ■ nrrw»ope e>d »Add» Y/i »
THE ORIGIN OF A NAME.
A CURIOUS FACT IN NATURAL
HISTORY.
One of our contemporaries brought, a few days
ago, a notice of a very interesting kind in his
columns as to how names are discovered. In con-
sequence of more exact information which we
were fortunate enough to obtain from a most
reliable source in London, we are able to declare
that the name Odol is not derived from the
formation of the craters in the moon, but has been
seen for the first time on the skin of a tiger in the
jungles of British India.
An eminent naturalist has drawn attention to
this very peculiar feature in the markings upon
the tiger’s fur, which affords another remarkable
evidence of the proverb that there is “ nothing
new under the sun.” While scientists were busy
with the important investigations which resulted
in the discovery of the famous dentrifice, Odol,
and centuries before the name was thought of, it
would appear that tigers were roaming the
jungles of India bearing upon their coats the
impress of the very word. That this powerful
and beautiful habitant of tropical forests —per-
haps the animal of all others with the best dental
equipment—should be, as it were, the actual fore-
runner of Odol, is one of those coincidences which
are nothing short of marvellous. It provides
food for thought, and Odol is fairly entitled to
whatever advantage may accrue from the dis*
covery of the coincidence.


SELECTING GIFTS by MAIL
Otir Mail Order Department makes it easy to shop from any distance.
No matter where yon reside, yon are perfectly safe in doing business
with ns by Mail Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR,
Silver-PMed, Richly Embossed.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
FREE CATALOGUE
On r equest we will gladly send
you our Illustrated Catalogue POST
FREE to any address. Write for a
copy. It’s yours for the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Black Morocco Leather,
Silk Lined.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S SOLID SILVER PURSE and CARD-CASE,
Handsomely Embossed.
With Solid Silver Extension Frame; size, sin x 3in.
Post £3. Pree.
Other Styles, £2/5/, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/-
FREE CARRIAGE.
Our system of FREE CARRIAGE on
all goods to any part of Australasia
means a big saving to you. Goods
packed to ensure safe delivery.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHAIN PURSE,
Seal Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Long White Bristles.
Post 10/6 Pree.
Other styles,
7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER, Solid Silver,
Crystal Glass Roller.
Post 7/6. Free.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH,
Buckskin, Silver
Shield, Rubber Lined.
Post 4/6. Free.
Ither styles, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/.
a
fjti
SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE POT,
Silver Mounted, Cut Glass.
Post 7/6. Free.
Larger, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Silver,
Steel Blade.
Post 3/6. .Free.
Glove Hook, 3/6.
fe''
1%
►- >■ *- 4 o s
m
m
’rr:
VwjW -:/:-
msk
1 V; v-f7sci<_^'f
'I
x.
<3--/v V-
'aC-.'JT ;7
H
fM’j
■
4mc%v •'■*Vw
(c>r .•; yv
.s?
a v;
5S^
CsS>
SsSi’w
%
&
A. SAUNDERS.
. Handsome TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Finest Quality Bristles, complete in Silk-lined Ai cco Case.
Post £lO. Eree.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/ 10/, £7/10/, £lO, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWAN PINCUSHION,
Solid Silver, Velvet Top.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
mnr v
BWWWKi
|g£ig|wNEjBßiß|
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS THIMBLE,
Steel Lined.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco, Leather Strap PURSE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richly
Embossed, Fine Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK INKSTAND, Polished Nickel Mounts,
Crystal Glass Bottles, Solid Oak Base,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts and Screw,
Amber Stem.
Post 12/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver Mounted.
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 15/6, 18/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET-BOOK, Black Morocco, Silk Lined,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 12/6. Free.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASS, Rapid Adjustment,
Large Field, with Sling and Case.
Post £2. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, SO/,
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH, Solid Nickel,- Highly
Burnished, Badger Bristles.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver,
Embossed Handles, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 0/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
m
!Li!
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER CLOTH OR HAT BRUSH,
Richly Embossed, Long Bristles.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/,
‘S'z-e's
2T7,
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S COLLAR STUD BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Pierced Design.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, .f/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco Covered,
Silver-plated Mounts.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Size only a Question of Cost
iT •m
IE KODAKS.
BAKER&ROUSE Mtd
Sole Australian Agent’s for all
Kodak Goods. A
You can get a ...
Kodak “Brownie”
for 6s. 6d.
Like
This
jk
BUT BEFORE YOU ARRIVE at any decision on the
subject of a Camera for the holidays tot up ail the pros
and cons of all those you know anything about and then
GET A KODAK.
It does the best work with the least worry, it is the
easiest to pack or carry, and your negatives can be developed
with comfort and certainty BY DAYLIGHT.
And PICTURES with
it 2\ inches square,
... Like this —
Fit for enlargement or
exhibition.
• V
m
-
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
For KODAK LIMITED,
375 and 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at “THE BLOCH,” 284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
78-80 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
37 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.
RUTHVEN STREET, TOOWOOMBA.
STARTLING DISCOVERY of the CAUSE of
APPENDICITIS !
According to an authoritative report it is stated that Dr. Blanchard
has placed before the world his startling discovery as to the cause of
Appendicitis. It is asserted, moreover, that his opinion is endorsed by
Professor Metchnikoff, the celebrated scientist of the Pasteur Institute.
These eminent research workers, the report states, have discovered certain
parasites in the appendix of every case which they have examined. It is
further stated that there are three kinds of these parasites or intestinal
worms, the most dangerous of which is known as the trygocephal, and it is
this which causes the acute pain. Appendicitis is neither contagious nor
infectious, but it frequently becomes epidemic in character, more particu-
larly in hot weather. According to Professor Blanchard, the common vege-
tables of everyday use may contain parasites which set up Appendicitis.
Fortunately, however, there is a certain preventive of this dire scourge,
Appendicitis, which, if regularly adopted, will render us immune against its
attacks. This remedy is Kutnow’s Powder, which, when taken before
breakfast in a glass of water, quickly removes all parasites, foreign bodies,
and poisonous matter. It cleanses the entire system and gives renewed
activity to the digestive organs so that any waste matter instead of remain-
ing in the body and forming an irritant poison is regularly removed each day.
DR. H. E. WHITFORD writes:—
“ Chicago, Illinois, May 2.
“Dear Sirs, —I find Kutnow’s Powder particularly valuable in children’s
cases, and also those cases of recurrent attacks of appendicitis, accomplishing the
two things necessary—balance of stomach and free evacuation of ailmentary canal.
I am, dear Sirs, yours faithfully, “ H. E. WHITFORD, M.D.”
DR. J. BOND SULLIVAN writes:—
“Knock, Ennis, Co. Clare, Ireland.
“ Having recently got from you a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder, from which I
personally derived much benefit, will you now kindly send me a larger supply ? I
really feel unsatisfied without it myself, and I have recommended it to several lady
patients, who approve of it greatly. An aged clergyman to whom I recommended
Kutnow’s Powder tells me he finds it both effective and agreeable.
“J. BOND SULLIVAN, M.D., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), &c.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN writes:
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield, Southampton, Oct. 22.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your publishing my testimony concerning
the excellent properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I iiad tried it years ago.
In my case it has proved to be an agreeable and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver
and kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain or discomfort, and
regulating generally the whole organic system. “ (Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
SIR JOHN B. MONCKTON
(late Town Clerk of London)
wrote :
“Guildhall, London, E.C.
“Gentlemen, —I have much satisfaction in stating
that for the last two years I have regularly used
Kutnow’s Powder, with the result that troublesome
and frequent attacks of lumbago, with other gouty
symptoms that had troubled me for years, seem to
have entirely disappeared.—l am, dear Sirs, yours
faithfully, “JOHN B. MONCKTON.”
HOW TO DETECT
FRAUDULENT IMITATIONS
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which
are sometimes sold for a few pence less. The
purchaser, through a misdirected spirit of
economy, little thinks that he is the means of a
direct incentive to fraud. The genuine and
original Kutnow’s Powder is alone strongly re-
commended hy all leading physicians for the
stomach, liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on
getting Kutnow’s, which you can obtain at all
conscientious chemists throughout the world.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ltd.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid imita-
tions and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
REV . J. M. DRYERRE, LL.B.,
WHITES :
“Gordon Villa, Burnham, Somerset, Nov. 9, 1906.
“ Gentlemen, —It may be of some interest to you
to know that I have used Kutnow’s Powder from
time to time with most excellent results, and I
consider it only fair to acquaint you of the benefit
I have experienced from so useful a remedy, which
fully carries out what it is advertised to do.
“(Rev.) J. MELDRUM DRYERRE,
“LL.B., E.R.G.S.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
' '[3 9]


The police authorities in N.S.W. seem to
be possessed with a fierce desire to prosecute
everybody possible under the Secondhand
Dealers Act, recently passed. This Act was
avowedly passed to grapple with the bottle-o and
“ dealer ” of his class, who were more than sus-
pected of sneak-thieving. But the last effort of
the police was to arrest a country cycle-seller
under the Act, his crime being that he accepted an
old bike from a customer in part payment for a new
one, furbished up the old one, and sold it again!
A foolish magistrate convicted him. The bicycle
trade took the matter up, and appealed against
the decision. The Crown Law people fought
strenuously for the conviction, but the Judge had
no hesitation in quashing the verdict. Supposing
the Crown Law Office to be genuine in thinking
that an offence had been committed, why did the
police pick on a luckless up-country trader for a
prosecution, and put all parties to the expense of
coming to Sydney for the appeal ? All the big
musical establishments in the metropolis call
loudly every day in their advertisements for old
instruments in part payment for new ones. The
practice of part payment is common in many
lines —pianos, sewing machines, phonographs, and
bicycles are all openly trafficked in by the biggest
people. Why, therefore, did the police go to
Molong for a case ?
The guileless Chinaman continues to
smuggle opium into North Australia, and finds
the business pays, despite occasional fines and
confiscations. At the Cairns (Q.) Court recently,
Lun Pan pleaded guilty to illegally having opium
in his possession. The Chow, dressed as though
he were going to the Cup, and carrying a port-
manteau, had been noticed constantly travelling
to and from the coast. An inquisitive policeman
looked inside the portmanteau, and, instead of
pyjamas and socks, discovered opium. Lun
Pan’s bank-book was also in the bag, and it
showed that he had paid in £400 since the begin-
ning of the year. The P.M. remarked £50 or six
months. Lun Pan, without a murmur, seated
himself at the Court table and scribbled a cheque
for the amount. Minus his parcel of opium, and
with only £350 in the bank, the Chinaman left
the court, and is probably now busy studying out
a new method of carrying on the old business.
N.S.W. Local Government Act, which
comes into full force in January, has struck a
hard, and presumably uncontemplated, blow at
the far-seeing husband who makes the family
humpy over to the “ole ’oman.” In terms of the
Act the present municipalities fall down dead
next year, and a voter or candidate for the new
councils must be “an owner, occupier, or lodger.”
A man who lives with his wife in his wife’s house
isn’t any of these things; and, in consequence,
quite a number of aldermen are preparing for the
Simple Life without ’possum robes. Among
them report places the Mayor and three aldermen
of one Sydney suburb, the Mayor of another,
and sundry other aldermen in divers places. Mrs.
Alderman, it seems, is quite a numerous house-
owner. Sydney solicitors, also, are finding the new
Local Government Act something of a snag. It
makes elaborate (and much-needed) rules as to the
cutting up of estates for building allotments.
Plans of the streets, etc., must be approved by
the_ local authority. In one or two cases of sub-
divisions, where the fact of the new law s existence
was overlooked, there has been trouble.
A steam launch recently blew up at Cir-
cular Quay, Sydney, with startling suddenness.
A theory was put forward that some explosive had
found its way from the coal-mine into the bunkers
of the steamer. This seemed a far-fetched notion,
but it received startling support when, during
last week, the steamer Dilkera reached Albany,
(W.A.), with a coal cargo from Port Kembla
(N.S.W.). While discharging at the Westralian
port, a trimmer dug up a shovelful of dynamite.
Altogether, 14 plugs'were found.
Books, Periodicals, &c.
Two Hundred 8?
Fifty Guineas.
The literary agency of
LONDON is instructed by a London
Publishing House to offer the sum of
£262 10s. for the
BEST FIRST NOVEL
MR. ANDREW LANG, MR. W. L. COURTNEY,
and MR. CLEMENT 8H0RTER
have consented to act as final adjudicators.
Applications, which must be accompanied
by a stamped and addressed envelope, for
particulars are to be addressed to The
Literary Agency of London, 5 Henrietta
Street, Covent Garden, London, W.C.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
J. 0. Williamson presents the Delightful Comedy,
in four acts, by Winchell Smith and Byron Ongley,
adapted from George Barr MeCutcheon’s Novel,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted bv J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON
and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
PRICES AS USUAL. • Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Brilliant Success of
J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in ....
THE BLUE MOON.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
VV THE PEOPLE’S POPULAR PLAYGROUND.
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY NIGHT: Sensations Unending, Mirth and Music.
NEXT MONDAY NIGHT : Grand Fireworks Display.
NEXT WEDNESDAY NIGHT : Lady Godiva’s Ride.
Historically Accurate.
All trams lead to the Mecca of Mirthmakers.
Adults, fid. —AT THE GATES Children, 3d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NIGHT FOR A
LIMITED SEASON.
A LIFE’S REVENGE.
A Stirring Drama by the Author of
“ A Midnight Wedding.”
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of all our Great Artists—
FIVE WIIITELEYS, Amazing and Original Wire Walking,
Acrobatic and Musical Pot Pourri.
HENRI ALEXANDER, in his unique Specialty Act.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicians.
THE MOLASSOS, Cyclonic and Whirlwind Dancers.
MDLLE. RHODESIA, the Society Lady Juggler.
MR. EDWARD CRANSTON and Company
in “NAILED TO THE MAST.”
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy Artists.
RAY & CALDEN, Comedy Sketch Artists.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES —Grand Prix Motor Race.
LA SYLPHE, Classical Eccentric Dancer.
FOUR JUGGLING GERALDOS.
Plan at Allan’s. K3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
TOURING VICTORIA,
THE MUSICAL
ALL BLACKS
AND THEIR
MAGNIFICENT PICTURES.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Reigning
London Gaiety Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn’s New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH,
—in—
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
The Great Australian Story,
BOBBEBY UNDEB ABMS.
also HENLEY ON THE YARRA.
Illustrated by the Latest and Most
Up-to-date Biograpb.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Mr. GEORGE MUSGROVE’S ROYAL
GRAND OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 7, CARMEN.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, TANN HAUSER.
SATURDAY. NOV. 9, THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, CARMEN.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, LOHENGRIN.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, RIGOLETTO.
Prices—7/6, 5/-, 3/-. Plan Cole’s Book Arcade.
Vibratory Stimulation.
©
Write for Explanatory Booklet.
VIBRATORY stimulation is obtained by
means of the ORESCENT VIBRATOR,
which is operated by electricity. The
current can be obtained from the ordinary
electric light switch, or from a dry battery which
we supply. It is NOT electric treatment —the
electricity is simply the motive power—the vibra-
tions being produced by purely mechanical means.
The stimulus imparted to the body is most
pleasant, soothing, and health-giving. It removes
congestion—the CAUSE of disease—and pro-
motes a full rich flow of blood. A good circulation
is the CURE of disease. Vibrator and batteries
are self contained in a portable case, and the
battery is inexpensive when it requires re newing
The Crescent Vibrator gives from 2000 to
20,000 vibrations per minute, and is therefore
infinitely superior to hand massage.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
My Opticians,
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
Amusements.
New bijou theatre, Melbourne.
Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
THURSDAY, NOV. 7, FRIDAY, NOV. 8,
Last Two Performances of THE ROGUES OF THE TURF.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 9,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming' Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
in the Exciting Sensational Drama,
THE TYRANT.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
Amusements.
the BIG SHOW OF 1907-8.
1 THE INCOMPARABLE MONARCH OF
THE CIRCUS UNIVERSE.
WI E/TH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH,
IN “OLYMPIA,” MELBOURNE.
THE FINEST CIRCUS BUILDING in all THE WORLD.
Six Weeks Season Only—Three of which Have Passed.
a
C 3
a
FOR YOUR
The chance of
making* extra profit
is a great tempta-
tion to the trades-
man. He makes
more profit on an
ax tide called “just
as good ” than he
does on the real
thing generally
because the ma-
terials or ingre-
dients are inferior,
or the essential part
of them lacking al-
together.
Don’t lead the
tradesman into
temptation by
accepting the imi-
PROTECTION.
tation brand of
“ 0.T.”
When ordering
“0.T.,” look for
“0.T.” and the
Red Chilli trade
mark on the bottle.
It is there for
your protection
from unreliable
and worthless
substitutes. You
know what you
want. Do not let
the dealer choose
for you.
And remember
there is no other
beverage “just as
good” as “0.T.”
If You are a Business Man,
And have occasion to dictate letters or other matter, vou should make a point of writing for the
new booklet, entitled “FROM BRAIN TO TYPE.”
It fully explains how the Edison Commercial System, conducted with the Business Phono-
graph, will enable you to greatly reduce your office expense.
FILE IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON NOW.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Please mail me your Booklet “ From Brain to
Tyne.”
AH Battery Users
Should enquire into the merits of the Edison Primary Batteries —the cheapest form of electrical
energy for Stationary and Portable Gas Engines, Slot Machines, Fan Motors, Railroad and Mine
Signals, Phonographs, Sewing Machines, X-Ray Outfits, Electro-Medical use, Telephone, Fire and
Burglar Alarm Systems, and all other classes of work.
Write for our Booklet, which gives full details.
EDISON MANUFACTURING CO.,
National Phonograph Co. OF Australia, Ltd. (Selling Agents), Dept.‘'B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
The Bates Numbering Machines
Are built to give perfect service for a lifetime, and are made in three styles—the Bates Automatic
Hand Numbering Machine, the Bates Platform Automatic Hand Numbering Machine, and the
Bates Line Dating Machine.
These are everywhere .regarded as the standard for quality, both in construction and character
of work they perform.
Bates Machines have these points of excellence Their workmanship is of the highest grade,
all wearing parts are made of steel; all working parts are entirely enclosed; they work noise-
lessly ; are perfect in design ; simple in operation ; have an entirely automatic action ; do
absolutely accurate work ; are compact and light in weight; have improved self-inking apparatus,
and there is no loss of space between the figures.
They are guaranteed in every particular, and with proper care will last a lifetime, and
always do good work.
If you have numbering of any kind to do, write now for our booklet fully describing the
various machines.
BATES MANUFACTURING CO.,
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd. (Selling Agents), Dept.“ B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Have You Children Growing Up ?
Do you realise what it means for a family to grow up without any knowledge of music,
without keeping in touch with the world’s progress in music ?
The one easy, inexpensive way to treat your family to the best music in the world is by the
purchase of a genuine
EDISON PHONOGRAPH AND EDISON GOLD-MOULDED RECORDS.
The genuine Edison Records are the most distinct and carefully made records in the world.
They represent the best selections of grand opera, the best old songs and ballads, the best
popular songs, the best dance music, the best band pieces, the best of everything, and have
recently been reduced in price to Is. 6d. each.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. “ B,” 340 Kent Street, Sydney.


DEWARS
22WHISKY
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1696.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, kIQ, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
I
m
f
m
7/
if
are
you
thirsty
*
try
«r
glass
&
of
*
\
o
$
LIME
JUICE
“MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice '
is made from cultivated limes, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial
f¥WE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
JL in magazine form. It ! s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
IT MAKES YOU GROWL.
Haven’t you “growled ” at the time it takes you to Shave?
Try a PLUM RAZOR and you’ll be surprised how quickly you will get
over it. There is no pulling and no scraping with a PLUM —nothing but
satisfaction, and you get over the “ ground” in marvellously quick time.
THE PLUM RAZOR, PRICE 10/6 POST FREE ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 157-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydn£y.
Established
25 Years.
:§s
K 2?
r
[MHIMJ
WITHOUT
DRUBS!
EVERY man who is weak
and failing knows that
there should be “ some-
thing ” that will restore that
“ old-time vigor ”to his body. He has invariably tried all
kinds of medicine and found them a total failure. He finds
himself worse instead of better. If you have been paying
money to doctors and taking nasty medicines for years,
and have derived no benefit from it all, do you not think it
is time to stop? . . . Twenty years experience with
Drugs and Electricity has confirmed us in the knowledge
that Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will
replace and renew lost energy and vitality, and that our
appliance is the only practical, commonsense way of apply-
ing it. Thousands of grateful letters from cured patients
tell us that medicines failed to cure them, and
that Electricity as given by DR. MeLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT did cure them after they had
tried everything else and had given up hope. It is the
grandest invention of the age for weak people. No weak,
sickly, delicate person will ever regret giving it a fair trial.
II has special attachments for men and women, and is
within the reach of all. It is a quick and certain remedy
for all cases of Debility, Weakness of all kinds,
Nervousness, Backache, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Varicocele, Indigestion, Con-
stipation, and Stomach, Liver, Kidney and Bowel Troubles.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated book which every
man and woman should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other
treatments. We will give it FREE to all who call
or write to us, and our Specialists will give you a
full diagnosis of your cas z—free. All communications are treated with strict confidence.
Call lor Free Test and Consultation. Office Hours: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
JOSEPH R. CORCIRAN
'“Daili
For Household Use.— To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
be used anywhere. Non-Inflammable fuel
without noxious fumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dalllnette
_ . (A Smaller “ Dalli.”)
For light wort and travelling only.
For general household work use the “Dalli.”
Having a larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked by:
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
REFERENDUM
Umn/mousElection
of the
Celebrated
*
ThePrernierPipt
of the World
Obtainable fromallTobacconists
WHAT IS CATARRH?
[CATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi’, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T°n Shillings for Medi-
tator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
SXAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st,, Melbourne.


Of Skin Tortured
Disfigured Babies
SHOULD
KNOW
THAT
W)|\
a
Ms?
\
Warm Baths With
•c*
And gentle anointings with
Cuticura,the great Skin Cure,
afford instant relief, permit
rest and sleep, and point to a
speedy cure of torturing, dis-
figuring eczemas, rashes,
itehings, and irritations of
infants and children when all
else fails. Guaranteed abso-
lutely pure, and may be used
from the hour of birth.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5 Hue de la Paix: Austra-
lia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India, B. K. Paul. Cal-
cutta: China. Hong Kong Drug Co.: Japan, Maruya,
Ltd., Tokio; Russia Ferrein (Apteka), Moscow:
South Africa, Lennon. Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Ohem. Corp., Sole Props. Boston.
B6S“Post-free. Cuticura Book on Care of the Skin.
Smart American
Shoe for the Cup.
This Snoe is made by Helliard and Tabor, the most
renowned of the American Shoe Manufacturers. It
is an exquisite Shoe, coming in enamelled kid with an
extra high YVurtemburg Heel. All the best garbed
women at the Cup will be wearing this Shoe—if you
are in Melbourne, call at our City Store, opposite the
Town Hall, and get a pair. 23/6 pair.
This Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
At this price it can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glace Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering-.
Price, 14-16. Posted in Victoria, 1/- extra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
115,000
The WaybacK Series,
Australia laughed ! I !
and keeps laughing.
No. 8.
Red Harry le.
Mrs. MACLUROAN’S
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at ail Booksellers.
Price, 2/6
Postages
6d. extra.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprfctr
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
MT p
EpY
M
I
rt l P
Sno
RJ,s
Yol
MEMORY
Means
MONEY-
The Successful Men in
every Business are
those who have
trained their Memory.
No single cause has con-
tributed more to the success
of thousands of business and
professional men and women
all the world over than
THE
Pelman System
... OF ...
Memory Training
Taught in Five Easy
Postal Lessons.
Mr. W. T. Stead says:—“7 consider Pelman
a benefactor of the human race.”
Write to-day for free book “Memory
and Success.” Read what the Pelman
System has done for others ; let it do
thesameforyou. Address The Secretary,
Pelman School of Memory, 3 Stock
Exchange Building, Melbourne.
i
MILLER'S
Wk
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
\
60/-
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a filth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted —the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNICUfiGj The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION, 1907
RESULT OF DRAWING.
1801
QCOQO-<lOsCnif*.COtOi— 1l OOQO<TCSCo^MbC>'
Prize No.
©■^oo^j’vOvroowcooo^-aooaMawffiHOo
COif*LOGOCOtOCOtOGOCOCOCSCOif*-r-‘to^4Oif*Cs
COCOMvj(©tOWiMfaN)OIOOOii-‘OS^WOShOOS
to oo — ».©
Winning
Number.
•f*.COCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOCOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtOtO
if*
‘ocooo--Tacn».mto ►
Prize No.
os *<r 4;*- co 05 ci to 05 1— * -<r w m to o go oo oi o< *<r oo
OMOJCO^OitOMtf-WOSWOIWtCWHCOWW
Winning
Number.
QCQOOMOICn^MbSi- I ‘OCQQo‘<rosCn>fr.CotoH- t
Prize No.
" '— •%OiMOiCOOO^OSK)W
JWCOOiCO*4tOO3MCOO
QUiCOHQ^OI^.H^OOiWOOIOHOJCOiP*-
Winning
Number.
9!S^x?^lirr :i *^ r^T,,<r<l ' <T( 3 5< 35C5C505C505C505
O CO 00 *<T 05 Cn if*. CO tO
5 GO *<l 05 Cn if*. CO tO ►
Cn tO 05 05 05 CO Cn i£». CO *<T 00 *<7 05 Cn if*. CO CO CO “
tOOtOCnCO-<rCOCO©CncOCSi- l CnbOC ja < r "™ ( *
Oif*.>-*Cnosi- ICS l C5 05 00 05C0C0050000i-
000500U1CDC
WMOSI—‘M>*OOOOiC
05if*.COCntOlf*©COOOCOCnCOCO-<rosCnif>.CC>if*-Cn
Prize No.
Winning
Number.
>c2g>so«stotococoeossoor»oo 00 00 00 00 00 00
SCOGO-4rOSCnif>.CCbOi—OCOQO^JQSCniP*.COtOi- t
scocnco-<ioo-<rbo-or©i— >cocn-<itococo-<rcn
)COHCOOIf*HCOOSOtOObObSIOb3COOO''''
J COOOCSCSOSQiOOCOi- i^ro3COH‘Oif.
OObSOOOOCOOiOOCOIOHOOCOCOCOHOOOi
Winning
Number.
bO V— 1 ►— 1 f— 1 I— l i— 1 h-* !— 1 I— >|— ‘i—‘OOOOOOOO o
QCQCO^JOSCnffr.COtOI— IQCOOQ-<rOsCnif*.CO 1 QCO0Q-<rO5Cnif*.CO to M 1
Prize No.
• if*if*-“<lO5C0C000C0G0 “<T OC O CO C 5 o
“
Coh-*CoOif*.if*.toCn 05 05 Coto^lif*.
f*OOOWHOCS 00W • '
'f.Oib3OlOOf*Cioo
i O Oi CO GO
... . * *<r co if*, co cc
ivjcOh-CiHOCOOCOO
1 M CO CO O CO f. i
Winning
Number.
O CD 00 ~sT "<7 Q 5 cn if* CO I'D h
Prize No.
05 00 CO 00 *<7 tO CO
CO CO tO f. lO Oi Ot
CO Cn if*- if*- CO O O .. __
i—‘CoCCosCncototoos>— ‘Cnif*
Cn 05 if*. 05 CM O Cn ‘ ‘ ‘
O CO H MH Oi -7 tO 05 tO tO 00
OCOCOi— OiOCif'COtOif^OOO^J
ci 0 w 0
COOiCOHif*COCOCCCOOCOr
Winning
Number.
05 Cn Cn Cn cn cn cn _ _ _. .. .
QQiOO<TCSOiif.CObOHOCOOO<TOSg
tO “*7 CO©COOsGOCnif»if*-OGCOCOOSif*Cni— ‘©-vlvf*.
05 Cn Ur Cn O
O if*- *<T ■<! if*COH*vJOOCOOtO
05t0t0C0t000Cnb0Cn00Cnt0C0CncnCnO05C005
CoosCsW<ltoif*HCo'7OiO-‘MWCnOS oiCoif.
CO *<T CO *<T I— 1 "<I 05 05 **7 *<TOi+*-COtOCX)^JCnif*.CO^l
Winning
Number.
O5 05 05 05 05 05 05 05
COOOMOSOuf*COtOHQCOQO^7OSCHIf*MtOH
Prize No.
!-‘OSCOI^ OCOOOSCOOSCO
to4*-CoCnCr>OCoCCrf*'v7CoCoboOoiOos 05lf*<7
*nCOOiOf*OtOOOibSif*OiOOOtOO
COif-OOOOtOCOCOCOOSOCC
> cn o 05 *<r oo co
Winning
Number.
pcoaooooooocoaoc
J O co oo *7 05 cn if* ;
Prize No.
* CO 05 cn I IT* VI ui WJ
‘ if*. CO 00 05 CO CO to O CO
O CI OI o M
if*, to to to if*
-<7if*.Cncnosooooosoif*COi-‘
1— ‘ co co go co i— 4 co
05 to to co oo co oo
05 Cn Cn cn 05 if*- OO
■* O O Cn *
*I—‘MOOC
7 O Cn co -
-* CO •<! O if*. Cn to
Winning
Number.
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that we have this day witnessed the drawing of the above
Art Union, and declare the same has been conducted in a proper manner, and with absolute fairness.
(Signed)
DAVID YOUNG, Senior-constable.
J. E. DAVENPORT, Sydney Morning Herald.
W. T. DANKS, Star.
JOHN HEPHER, M.L.C.
R. J. STUART-ROBERTSON, M.L.A.
CAMPBELL CARMICHAEL, M.L.A.
The Prizes will be paid over to the winners on FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, at 10 a.m., at the
Trades Hall, Goulburn Street, Sydney.
Trades Hall, Sydney, November 2nd, 1907.
ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST PREE TO ANT ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lOd
The Inky Way.
There are seven men in the Queensland Government
Printing- Office who have been there 40 years or more,
Frederick Spence being top score with 45. The gods may
die young ; but all the devils don’t.
* * * *
Maoriland has two long-service reporters. George R.
Hart, leader of the reporting staff of Christchurch Weekly
Press, completed 37 years’ service on that paper last
month (October); and John R. Gibbons passed the 25
years’ graft-stone on the Wellington Evening Post during
September.
* * * *
Victoria’s new Gaming Act doesn’t allow the papers to
report ante-post betting, but the little ’Erald worked its
dodge by remarking, re Caulfield Cup, that “ Ike Earn-
shaw is training the two first favorites, Apologue and
Poseidon; Ebullition is a strong public fancy, while
lolaire has many friends,” etc. It named the whole of
the candidates in this fashion, and then wound up by re-
marking—“ The order in which the horses stand in public
favor is that in which we have referred to them.”
* * * *■
The S. A. Register runs a literary page in its Saturday
issue. This is mostly filled with snips, but there is a
sprinkling of original matter. An aspiring poet sent the
old paper some decent verse, which was printed in this
famous page ; but in reply to a request for payment he
was informed that, though the Register was always
willing to encourage amateur writers by printing their
efforts if the same were meritorious, there was no pay-
ment in such cases. And yet, if a man encourages the
landlord by taking his house (it being a meritorious domi-
cile) without payment, a bailiff is put in.
* * * *
“ U.” : I feel inclined to ask The Bulletin to print my
items in full italics, so as to kind of balance things with
the other papers on my visiting list. There is a shocking
tendency nowadays to keep press utterances to a deadly
monotonous linotype level, with nary an inflection, as
far as the type is concerned. I expect to see capital
letters abolished soon, so as to save the trouble of reach-
ing out for them. Then we will be informed that “the
rev. henry worrall said beelzebub bossed bendigo,” and
“ mary lady smith addressed the Sydney women’s national
league in a stirring speech and a gown direct from paris.”
* * * «
The Dominion, the latest organ of Toryism, made its
first appearance at Wellington (M.L.) on Dominion Day.
The squattah has lately been having nasty dreams of
possibilities in the way of subdivision—“confiscation,”
he calls it—when Lands Minister McNab and Premier
Ward get their Land Bill and Graduated Tax going ; so he
has bought himself another newspaper. The Freetrade
Conservative doesn’t do things by halves when it is a
question of protecting himself, and the Dominion is
backed up with a capital of something in the vicinity of
£lOO,OOO. Nearly a year was spent in getting ready and
talking about the great show that was to be made. A
mighty staff (numerically) was engaged, purporting to
comprise all the best of Maoriland journalism. But when
the organ played its first tune it was discovered that the
mountain had brought forth a mouse, and not a very
robust mouse at that. The Dominion’s first article that
wasn’t about itself was an attack on the State-owned
railway service. Next day the paper gave up politics for
the time being and tried its youthful hand with a long
leader on astronomy. After working off three parts of a
column the writer became as befogged as his readers, and
gave up explaining the mysteries of the solar system in
order to ask questions. Thus :
“ Whence and whither is Arcturus speedingat 370 miles
a second? What energy propels him, or controls him?
Whither is the sun and his train of worlds speeding at
nineteen miles a second? He is heading for the bright
star, Vega, seen low in the north, but is his path straight?
Do other stars accompany him ? Is he one of a group ?
What is the meaning of the varied colors and spectra of
stars ? What are ‘ blaze stars ’ and what are variables ?
What is the genesis of a star ? Has collision anything to
do with it? Does a nebula condense into a sun?' Is
there a temperature at which atoms dissolve and all
elements are reduced to one? Do suns die by cooling?
And is ours dying, or is the Cosmos immortal ?’”
Everybody will agree that these are questions which
demand an immediate answer. But in the meantime, if
the sun is not going straight, what is the matter with
calling a meeting of the stewards, and having it dis-
qualified?
THE WAR-GOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a burly editor,
And joy was in his eye.
He gazed upon me merrilee
The while he hurried by.
With cash his purse did overflow,
His hair was all a-curl ;
His lovely show of dentistry
Would shame a gate of pearl!
O ! tell me, Mister Editor,
Why is thy smile so gay ?
Thy raiment, too, so superfine—
So sweet thy new array ?
Hast tumbled on a ruby mine,
Or got Dorado’s gold,
Or found the stone philosophers
Did seek in days of old ?
He turned —the Golden Editor—
And laughed for very glee :
“ Dost thou not know the Buss is out
To slay the Japanee ?
And /—the gentle Journalist—
I plan their little game,
And tell them in the Daily Bag
How they must run the same ;
“ And people in this simple town,
From tinker up to toff,
They mostly think I run the show
For Jap and Bomanoff ;
And so they send a steady stream
Of coppers to my door,
And thank the Lord they own a man
Who’s fit to wage a war.
“ If Dalny town is up in flames,
Or Yalu’s running red,
I work the next manoeuvre out
While folks are all abed ;
And when we meet the morrow morn,
’Tis good to see them stare—
‘ Last night he cue a corps to bits
And never turned a hair.’ ”
“ If that be so—Sir Editor—
O, bid the war to cease !
Let Jap and Eussian join their hands
And rest again in peace ! ”
“ Not so —not so—Sir Craven Heart;
The Public longs for blood,
And now I couldn’t stop the war
No matter if I would 1 ”
For though the jolly Journalist,
May fan a spark to flame,
He hasn’t got the slightest power
To check the ruddy game ;
And when he’s found a fount of pelf
In public thirst for blood,
Why—as to stopping Wicked War,
Hu wouldn’t if he could !
He turned —the jolly Journalist—
And sought his jolly den ;
He drew his warlike scissors forth,
And wet his plucky pen ;
He sent the Czar the word along
To force ahead the fray,
For he was doomed to plot by night
That blood might run by day.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


The CLAVIOLA PIANO PLAYE
m
CIAV/OIA
i /"/
i“‘' i
If i
iiill
a. l , ji
!!!lliu
Bui
s ..:■■■
o. s*s
THE CLAVIOLA
Is the only Piano Player that can interpret all the works of the
great masters as written, it having a full compass of 72 NOTES.
This extended range does away with the necessity of mutilation required
for players with a shorter compass.
The Claviola Artist Music Rolls are absolutely unique and without
parallel —they are electric records, note by note, of the ACTUAL
PLAYING of the World’s Greatest Pianists, and are perfect renditions
of the classics.
Other important features of the Claviola are:
Special Levers for Phrasing and Melody Accentuation.
Brass Tubing and Leather Bellows throughout.
No Perishable Rubber used.
Our Library, comprising thousands of rolls of music, is available to
purchasers on payment of a small annual subscription.
' The Claviola can be bought on easy terms, and we issue a special
invitation to any lady or gentleman interested to call and play their
favorite composition —we promise them a revelation.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO THE SOLE AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
270 Collins Street.
SYDNEY s
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street.
DIAMOND SENSE,
If you are meditating on the purchase
of Diamonds, as an investment, why
not clinch the matter now ? Stones are
going up all the time. We have some
splendid values at present. Let us talk
them over with you and show you
the Diamonds themselves.
e
rj
/
9
/
CORNER. GEORGE
c^ND
SYDHtj
ST
ORDER BY MAIL.
If unable to call, send us your order
accompanied by a remittance for what
you select. The money you send us
remains your property till you decide
that what we send is approved of.
Fine Diamond and Opal Bangle, £35.
Fine Diamond Bangle, £47 10s.
Diamond and Sapphire as 2-Row Bangle, £25
Fine Diamond Brooch, £lB 10s.
Mrs
Fine Diamond Bangle, £135.
With Smaller Stones, £75.
Fine Diamond Brooch, £8 10s.
Pearl, Ruby, Diamond, and
Sapphire Brooch, £8 10s.
Fine Large White Diamond
Brooch, £3O.
Finest Diamonds and 2 Emerald
Brooch, £l4O.
Fine Diamonds and Emeralds, £95.
Fine Diamond and Choice Turquoise Bangle, £4O.
Fine Diamonds and Choice Opal Brooch, £3O.
Large Size, £f>s.
Fine Diamonds and Pink Topaz Centre
Brooch, £3O.
Fine Diamond and Sapphire Brooch, £45.
'Or Diamond and Emerald. Smaller Stones, £25.
Olivine and Rose Out Diamond Brooch, £l4 10s.
Fine Diamond Brooch, £45.
Smaller Size, £2l.
Opal and Fine Diamond Bangle, £45.
Fine Diamond Pendant and Bangle Combined,
£45.


THE TWENTY-NINTH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The national Bank of Australasia [imited.
f The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 30th September last, and the Profit and Loss Account
tor the Half-year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
2. The profit, after deducting expenses of management, and the other items specified in the
nfl I jfYQQ Annnnnf. amr»nn+orl +-/% 1
... 4, 053 18 7
Profit and Loss Account, amounted to
Deduct Note and Income Taxes in Australia and Great Britain ...
Net profit ...
Add balance from previous liaif-year
Leaving available
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (making it £160,000)
Dividend at the rate of s'per Cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
Carry forward
• o - ~D i i rin/ haF-year Branches have been opened at Myrtleford in Victoria, nanuey cringe
in South Australia, and Bridgetown in Western Australia.
. 4 ; The Ordinary General Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company, Collins-
street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, Gth November, at, noon.
By Order of the Board of Directors.
m. vr ,• ,-p JOHN G. ADDISON, Chief Manager.
I he National Bank of Australasia Limited,
Head Office, Melbourne, 24th October, 1907.
BALANCE-SHEET of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED,
For the Half=year ending 30th September, 1907.
Dr. (Including London Office to 31st August, 1907, and Western Australian Branches to 9th September, 1907.) Cr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference
shares paid in
money to £lO per
share, £305,780;
238,488 ordinary
shares paid up to
£5 pe r share,
£1,192,440.. ..£1,498,220 o' 0
Reserve fund account 150,000 0 0
Profit and loss ac-
count .. .. 57,303 4 7
£1,705,523 4 7
Notes in circulation £256,809-12 6 .
Bills in circulation.. 687,905 15 4'
Government Deposits
—Not bearing- in-
terest, £43,450
10s. Id. ; bearing
interest, £409,802
19s. Id .. .. 453,253 9 2
Other deposits—Not
bearing interest,
£2,840,310 os. lid;
bearing interest,
£4,173,607 6s. 3d... 7,013,917 7 2
Interest accrued and
rebate on current
bills 72,985 2 8
Balances due toother ~ -
banks .. .. 121,821 19 8
■ ; 8,606,693 6 6
£10,312;216 11 1
Contingent liability,
as per contra .. £264,505 15 0
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion and
cash at bankers .. £1,654,673 8
Government munici-
pal and other public
stocks, debentures,
and funds ..
Bills and remittances
in transitu
Notes and bills of
other banks
Balances due from
other banks
Duty stamps
598,440 13 6
501,293 12 0
17,543 14 11
41,092 17 9
4,269 3 7
„ - , 1 £2,817,315 10 1
Beal estate, consisting- of bank pre-
,mises,;at cost to the bank .. .. 445,963 1 8
Other real estate, at valuation .. 92,637 9 4
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. .. .. 6,056,300 10 0
' . , . £10,312,216 11 1
Liability of the old bank, in the form of
a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
provided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the Act authorising their
issue, £91,600 ; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of
credit and drafts, £172,905 155., as
per contra, £264,505 15s.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT*
To Expenses at Head Office, 134 branches
and 23 agencies ..£64,429 5 10
JNote and income taxes .. .. .. 4,053 18 7
Bali * nee .. .. 57,303 4 7
£125,786 9 0
By Balance brought forward £7,359 14 10
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid •
and accrued on deposits, repairs to
premises, and rent .. .. .. 118 426 14 2
£125,786 9 0
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance
£130,000
By balance last half year ..
Transfer from profit and loss
.. £140,00!)
10,000
£150,000
NOTE.
J. G. ADDISON,
Thes customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors’ Statement
Companies Act appear on the official report.
Chief Manager.
to comply with the
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY
fpn T PIVTITI On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
A w AXJLiUHi aJ) City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand JaSgT' AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.O. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
yp
'■-■mm
FREE-ON-TRIAL.
To every MINE MANAGER or paint user in Australia, we
are prepared to send a Barrel of our “ Arco Elastic Carbon
Paint” on trial, FREE OF ANY COST, for 30 days.
Take Ten Gallons out of the Barrel and apply i t to any
Metal or Wood surface, and if our paint does not do
exactly as we claim, you can send the paint back to us,
and we will pay all charges, and make no charge for
the Ten Gallons used.
This offer is made to demonstrate to all those who
have not used our “Arco Elastic Carbon Paint” that it
will not Crack, Scale or Blister. Used on Metal it con-
tracts and expands with the painted surface under all
atmospheric changes.
It is not affected by acids, alkalies or sulphurous
gases. It is impervious to water and effectually with-
stands the severest action of the elements. It is fireproof
and guaranteed to last for at least Five Years.
Manufactured by
&he ATLANTIC REFINING CO..
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.S.A.
• Wholesale Agents :
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency 00., Launceston.
W. D. Moore and Co., and Harris, Scarfe and Co., Fremantle.
Head Office: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
&
The Signal Success
OF THE Buffalo Engines
is In a great measure due to the fact that their LIGHT WEIGHT, by com-
parison with their GREAT TRACTIVE ROWER, causes the danger sianal
that ARRESTS the progress of the ORDINARY engine to drop to
Go ahead with confidence at the approachof the Buffalo,
MORE Buffalo Traction Engines sold in Australia last year
for purely agricultural purposes than ALL OTHER
MAKES combined.
r l ." forward you on a list giving names and addresses of over
300 Buffalo users who will testify as to the ability of their Engines to get about
and do good work when the heavier types are clean out of action.
Anyone who can raise a few pounds for the first small payment will find that
there is such a constant demand for the services of his Buffalo as to enable it to
more than earn the remainder of its payments BEFORE THEY BECOME DUE.
Send NOW for further partlculars-the EASY TERMS will be a surprise to you
Address our Branch House in the State in which you live.
International Harvester Co. of America
(Incorporated),
Roma Street. Brisbane: 37 Broadway. Sydney; 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne-
Bank Street. Adelaide; and 75 York Street, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth* General Agents for Western Australia.
*
THe GRANDEST LIVER PILL/ in. tKe WORLD
“Take a Cookie’s Pill” is the Doctor’s advice throughout the English-speaking world whenever a fnrrert
tongue or a sallow complexion indicates the need of a safe, reliable means of clean sine- afurred
For Bile, Liver, Acidity and all kindred complaints, these fame “ pm s act read"fy 3 urlly and S'
Of all Chemists, at prices from l/i-j- to 22 /- y y '
COCKLE’S ANTIBILIOUS PILLS


If you are a MINER, MANAGER, SPECULATOR, FARMER, MERCHANT, MECHANIC,
or merely an intelligent AUSTRALIAN CITIZEN, looking for absolutely RELIABLE
and easy-fitting FOOTWEAR, you will ask for tbe
“MUNDIC Brand Boots & Shoes
with tbe “ TRUE BLUE ” colored soles. Tbey are 22-carat—AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
e
ll'H-
.. :
.
K s
m ;
MUNDIC
■ • :
11
DXC9U
, .. , Ji-
-
. :.3
fill*
- ‘V'» ,• j'aj
.
apa %%■> »
V ■ .
■ V
'
: " .
■
S. IS I
mmsm
V
..
M
o ©
O o
1
o &
O o °
o o
0
H
ill
-
J
5 . ✓
■
ft* »MRi9rj£
\lUx*l
s
I
urn***
' ' ' 'f- $
/’ ' '*
gp<
.
*
■
I ' ' i .
To be obtained of all Leading' Merchants throughout the Commonwealth. EVERY PAIR
GUARANTEED. Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers—
E7>e DAVEY HALLIDAY COMPANY, LIMITED,
WHOLESALE ONLY. BRISBANE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
™ Queensland national j)ank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending - to 30th June, 192 L.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Sank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
Cs»
$
♦
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
INT-S.'W .
|||ontdepieteO.#i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadb,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £" 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. ,• • £25 000 0 0
Directors: F. U. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Binitb, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion J. M. Pratt, M.L.0.; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
KT. 13. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LIMITED. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
fDAMASCUS
*MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
.. I H. A. Schleman .! I Noon, Dec.
| A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, Jan.
.. | A. Simpson ..) Noon. Jan.
6
4
31
* Twin Screw. t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw Steamers.
*CUFIC, 8250 tons, to sail about 23rd
November.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 30th
November.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 25th
December.
MEDIO, AFRIO and SUEVIC to follow.
* Cargo only.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
I HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
• J
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking-, &c.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited *
Capital Paid-up £1,213,565 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,192,713 2 6
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,656,278 15 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks. ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incpn-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
GANADSAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA.
Write for Particulars.*^
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OP N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
DON’T BE HARD UP.
This can be easily avoided by writing AT ONCE to
THE MINING INVESTMENT AND AGENCY COMPANY,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolu'ily in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested by us in the very best stocks.
ADVICE FREE.
W. Bruce Fox, General Manager.
KUB
- -—•
QUEENSLAND BRANCH-
-308 Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Brookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth.
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Oorrespond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
John Sands Ltd*, 374 George St*, Sydney
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
snipping. __
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP DO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANOE BAY,
ALBANY, }
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
November 9, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Wollowra, November 9
S.S. Innamincka, Nov. 16
Rest mul Cheupest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
C. S- YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
M
ESSAGER/ES
IyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including- Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 378.
F.—H. —S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For LONDON & LIVERPOOL
(Calling- at DURBAN only to land passengers.)
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer,
“SUFFOLK”
11,000 Tons. G. T. Deith, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 27th November
„ ~ ~ Melbourne ~ 2nd December
~ ~ ~ Adelaide „ 7th ~
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. Tiie Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and S-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining saloon on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
DURBAN .. £22 £lO £ll £l2
CAPETOWN .. £24 15s. £lolos. £lllls. £12125.
LONDON &
LIVERPOOL.. £49 108. £12125. £13135. £14145.
To be followed by other similar
twin-screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED,
7 Macquarie Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 9.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 16.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 23.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
COOLGARDIE, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, November 30.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 9.
KONOOWARRA, 5 p.m., TUES.
DAY, November 12.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
November 16.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Train).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
THE LAW OF
FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
rpHE Book that tells how to succeed and make money
-*• by following- the Law. Everybody needs it, whether
rich or poor. Big- firms buy in quantities. Agents
wanted. 200 per cent, profit. Make £5 a week easy.
Send Is. for Sample and Agency.
The Fiduciary Press, 1532 Tacoma Building-, Chicago.
Voigtlander’s
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.


The British Trade Union Congress has
heard an explanation from a Salvation Army
officer of the charge that the Army pays joiners
in its workshops 12s. a week, and charges them
9s. a week for board. Answer was: —
The skilled workman comes to us as a place of refuge.
In many cases he comes without heart,. stomach, or
stamina, a skeleton of his former trade-union days. In
time he earns, perhaps, more than he receives, but the
surplus goes to assist the man at his side, who is a loss
to us.
Then, having sweated the good workman to make
him pay for the one without a stomach, the Army
sends round the hat to get money for doing the
same thing. In other words, it sweats the work-
man and the public for the same purpose, and it
is about time the Army explained where the
second lot of sweated money goes.
“ Silica,” from Kidston’s country :
If the future Japanese historian or publicist, securely
domiciled in Australia and protected by the bayonets of
the Japanese warriors, should write learnedly re the in-
fluence of low tariffs on the decline and fall of Australia,
it is to be hoped he will devote a chapter to the multi-
tudinous, selfish little insects who undermined the tariff
wall. Take the case of Queensland. Here is a State
so thoroughly nurtured and educated to casual Pro-
tection that it has forgotten that Oobden ever ranted, or
the Manchester League everpamphleted. All it recollects
of alleged Preetrade in N. S. Wales is a “ Hop” portrait
of a globular person and his dog. It laughed consutnedly
at the dog', and wrote letters to The Bulletin asking par-
ticulars of the breed, and inquiring if Reid kept it chained
to the barristers’ table in the Supreme Court. It blinked
sleepily when the old, ineffective Federal tariff wiped out
the fairly efficient old Queensland tariff, and made wild
and crudely ignorant guesses at the reasons why the Ips-
wich Woollen Mills, and Walkers, Ltd., Maryborough, were
steadily declining. In short, Queensland was, and is,
wretchedly ignorant of the principles of fiscalism. It sub-
scribed itself to Protection, much in the same way as
Billjim writes himself a “ Roming Carflick ” in the census
return—because it has a dim recollection of having been
brought up in that faith. Then the new Australian tariff
happened along, and offered prosperity, good wages, and
protection against foreign invasion to Queensland. But
the fiscally illiterate State is suspicious, and the deadly
work against the Australian tariff is being done, not by
the bold and piratical importer (there are few of him in
Queensland), but by the ignorant little insect all over the
State. The temporary rise in prices (inevitable till the
new industries get going, and carried to needless lengths
by the huckstering insect) is bitterly resented 'by the
buying insect. The latter, in the depths of his ignorance,
mouths blasphemy against Federation and the Federal
Parliament —against everybody, in fact, but his fellow
creeping thing. He doesn’t understand; he doesn’t
reason ; he is ready to sell Australia to the Asiatic and
himself to the Foreign-trader, because he pays sjd. more
out of a sweated wage than he did before. Therefore, I
trust, when the Japanese historian aforesaid sits down to
his task, he will devote the eleventh volume of his work,
with an illuminating preface and a voluminous index, to
the creeping thing in Queensland, who will then be hew-
ing wood and drawing water for the Asiatic garrison.
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never oeen
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A SYDNEY RESIDENT SUFFERED FOR OVER SIXTY YEARS.
SO BAD HE DARED NOT STIR.
RELIEVED IN A FEW MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
WOULD GIVE £5O FOR THE SAME BENEFIT RATHER THAN SUFFER.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Friend, —Chronic Bronchitis I had from birth, and lam now 66 years old. Some time
back I contracted Asthma, and for months I was so bad that any remedy that had previously relieved smothering
was of no use to me. I was so bad that I dared not stir, and spent the worst night I ever hid. When in a conversa-
tion, Mr. March, J.P., of Balmain, Sydney, kindly told me that a friend of his was using your Bronchitis Cure, and
that it was good. So my sister bought me a bottle of it, and in a few minutes after taking the first dose I could
breathe a little. The next day I was better, and kept getting better every day. _ To-day I am better than I have
been for the last seven years. I took the medicine as directed, six bottles, and it cost me less than £l. I would
give £5O for the same benefit rather than suffer as I did. Please make what use of this letter you think fit, if by so
doing it would only cause one to get rid of this fearful complaint.—Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM CANHAM, 10S Curtis Road, Balmain, Sydney.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
ITS EFFICACY IN CHEST COMPLAINTS TESTIFIED TO BY A GRATEFUL VICTORIAN.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in adding my testimony in praise of your invaluable Bron-
chitis Cure. I have used it for the last three or four years, and its efficacy I have fully proved in common colds,
severe colds, croupy coughs, and other similar chest complaints. I have given it to infants a few weeks old, young
children and adults of all ages, and have never known it to fail in relieving at once, and rapidly effecting a cure with
a few doses. I have recommended it to many of my friends, and they have fully proved its wonderful curative pro-
perties. I feel very grateful to you for a chest medicine so valuable, and cheap enough to be available to anyone.
Trusting its present popularity and sales will be doubled, I am, yours very gratefully,
EDWARD JONES, Mount Bruno, Mokoan, via Glenrowan, Vic.
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY STOCK AND SHARE BROKER EXPRESSES GRATITUDE AND APPRECIATION OF
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
IT PROVED A MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY FOR A SEVERE ATTACK OF BRONCHITIS.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l lately had a severe attack of Bronchitis, and, acting on the advice of a friend,
obtained a supply of your Bronchitis Cure. lam pleased to inform you it has proved a most effective remedy,
causing me to feel grateful to you for furnishing such a valuable medicine to the public. May you meet with the
success you so well deserve, i place this communication at your service, and remain, Dear Sir, yours faithfullj',
HENRY FRENCH, Stock and Share Broker, 93 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
A FIVE YEARS’ CASE.
AT TIMES VERY BAD INDEED.
QUICKLY AND COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —For five or six years I was troubled with asthma, at times very bad, indeed. I was very
ill iust'after Christmas, so sent to the local chemist for a bottle of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. 1 took the
first dose on going to bed, and was not troubled that night. I finished the medicine, and have not had a touch of
the asthma since. I tell everyone about it. . ri ~,
M. MURRAY, Postmistress, Pampoolah, Manning River, N.S.W.
HAY ASTHMA.
A SEVERE ATTACK RELIEVED IN TEN MINUTES BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
THE EFFECT WAS WONDERFUL.
Mr W. G Hearne. Dear Sir,—About three weeks ago, while in the vicinity of musty chaff, I gradually felt a
difficulty to breathe. My nose began to run, and to all appearances I was developing a severe attack of Bronchitis
or Asthma. At last I could stand it no longer. I then tried your Bronchitis Cure, and its effect was wonderful. In
less than ten minutes I was all right again. Such a result, and so quick, astounded me. This is no exaggeration, I
r S. H. MAYO, J.P., Meredith, Victoria.
NINE MONTHS’ SUFFERING.
RELIEVED BY ONE DOSE OP HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND CURED BY TWO BOTTLES.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I wish to add my testimony to the wonderful effect of your Bronchitis Cure. I suffered
for nine months, and the cough was so distressingly bad at nights I was obliged to get up and sit by the fire. 1 naa
medical advice, and tried other remedies without avail. I tried yours, and never had a lit of coughing alter taking
the first dose, and though I have had but two bottles, I feel lam a different man, and the cough has vanished. You
mav depend upon my making known the efficacy of your wonderful remedy to anyone I see afflicted.—youis
faithfully, JAMES ASTBURY, Dergholm, Victoria.
ASTHMA 25 YEARS.
IMMEDIATELY RELIEVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have been a martyr to Asthma for about 25 years, and have tried almost all
known remedies for the complaint, and have been under the treatment of leading physicians throughout the
Australian States. I determined to try no more, but let Nature take its course. Two years ago I was asked to try
your Asthma Cure, but laughed at the idea. However, by the persuasion of a very old friend, three weeks ago I
commenced the first bottle of your treatment. Almost immediately I found that 1 had made a mistake by non
taking it before. lam now about half-way through the second bottle, and so much do I feel relieved that I
take this opportunity of sending this testimonial along for you to make whatever use you may think fit. l
intend continuing your treatment, and I trust that before I have finished the third bottle I shall be able to
write to you that lam perfectly cured. lam pleased to say the effect has been wonderful. Yours very grate-
PHIL HANN, 33 Camden Street, Balaclava, Victoria.
CONSUMPTION.
PATIENT RECOVERING.
Mr W G Hearne. Dear Sir, —We purchased some time ago 12 bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and can
unhesitatingly say that it has given great relief from the intolerable throat irritation that my daughter . xpen-
enced. Previous to using the Bronchitis Cure she would have two or three attacks nightly, but now she can
sleep throughout the night and, on wakening, simply clears her throat from phlegm. She had a slight attack
of Consumption, but seems to be recovering, though of course slowly. Yours gratefully, ,
oi uonsuuipoiuu, uuu O G. MACKIE, Kiamata, Taranaki, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS.
AN ENGLISH LADY SO ILL THAT THE DOCTOR HELD OUT NO HOPE.
WAS GIVEN HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, AND IT EFFECTED A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mr Hearne Dear Sir,—Not long since I had occasion to visit the Old Country, and before leaving Melbourne
purchased a bottle of Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, which I took with me. When I arrived at Leeds, I found that my
niece Miss C. Matthews, was suffering from a very severe attack of Bronchitis; in fact, she was so bad that the
family doctor held out no hope for her recovery. She was then given Hearne s Bronchitis Cure according to the
directions on the label, and I am very glad to say that it effected a complete cure.
R. J. MATTHEWS, c/o Allan and Co., Collins Street, Melbourne.
ASTHMA.
A SUFFERER 73 YEARS OF AGE CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr Hearne Chemist. Sir,-I am thankful to say that the medicine you sent me for Asthma has had a won-
derful effect Ihave not taken all the Bronchitis Cure, as I did not need it; therefore I send you my hearty good
wishes for your future success. I, myself, will, for the benefit of others, make it known to all I know. lam 73 years
of age.—Yours truly, JOHN BRAY, Alliance Street, Clunes, Victoria.
BRONCHO PNEUMONIA.
TWO SEVERE CASES CURED BY ONE BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr W G Hearne Dear Sir.—Kindly forward without delay another small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure. The
Dottle I had from you has cured two 6f my children, but I do not feel safe without it in the house. I have also
recommended it to my friends. I lost a fine little girl, three years of age, from Influenza and Broncho-Pneumonia.
rea r believe that if I had had your medicine my child would not have died, for the other two, a boy five years
Did and a baby eight months old, were suffering exactly in the same way and it acted like magic on them ; in fact,
i small bottleful cured both of them ; so trusting you will forward it without delay, I am, yours most gratefully,
x smau °°’' u (Mrs.) E. D. WARD, Cassihs, via Swift’s Creek, Gippsland, Vic.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCIIITIS CURE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the /JnNrHI' IMS pfIRP
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HE ARNE S BRONCI I b OU
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you m your own interests fco be
particular to ask for HEARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally
NOTICE « —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5, First Floor, Greer’s Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
Srostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
lenger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Qenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


600
WORDS and MUSIC
FOR
2/6
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
* which for various reasons are denied the average'
music and song lover. It may be that your local music-1
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellers
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem'
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of t
one book. In it are to be found songs old and;
new to suit every taste —from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous —without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &c.,'
including such world-famous favorites as “ Annie
Laurie,” “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”
“Robin Adair,” “ Killarney,” “Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “Men of Harlech," “Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ My Bible Leads to Glory,” “ Bonnie Earl of Murray,”
“ Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
a Nun,” “ Highland Mary,” “Kitty of Coleraine,” “ Prayer
Duiing Battle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless!
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies, ;
such as “Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem!
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. 10d.); if P.N.'
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchange. Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere. Address —
THE PUBLISHING CO., 460 b George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SULPHUR
Will cure
The worst cases
Of Skin
Disease
From a
Common Pimple
On the Face
To that awful
Disease
Scrofula.
Try a bottle
To-day.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
RJfliVc GOUT and
UIU.II O RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
ana
“ Songeuse ” Asti,
folio size Photo.
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
PHOTOS
With 700
Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 in
Money Order or Stamps of any
country ! Sample Collections of
Photos, and Post Cards at 5/-,
10/-, 20/-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
Postage %d.
MOTOR CARS !
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables: “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cailogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference —F. G-. CROUCH, Rsq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
1
S 3
gnu
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got somo from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Pleas, send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘ Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN,Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sare by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally,
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
HOLLOWAY
S' s*
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends “them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as ‘‘run-down ’’ or “out of sorts." Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-«* welcome relief
in a very short time.
s*V V
J
THE BULLETIN POST CAROS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.


Promotes
Skin Health .
Defies
Skin Disease -
For Soothing and Softening
the Skin, Zam-Buk Soap has No Equal.
The irritating and painful skin afflic-
tions that attack infants and young
children, owing to the immatured nature
of the skin, and the danger of using
common soaps containing strong mineral
substances to their tender skins call for
some other means of relieving them of
their suffering. N-o one knows the acute
agony they undergo. It is the mother
who has to bear the brunt of it all, and
the fact of her child being fretful and
peevish with its ailments, causes her,
mentally, as much distress as the baby,
and to add to which the loss of rest she
undergoes in many instances creates a
run-down condition of health, which is
often fraught with dangerous conse-
quences.
m
m
y?.
7
With a young child its very life,
so to speak, depends in a large
measure on its daily bath. This ap-
plication determines the skin’s correct
duties and health. Under such cir-
cumstances it is essential that no in-
jurious or poisonous substances should
come in contact with its flesh. So
sensitive is the nature of the baby’s
skin that the least thing aggravates
it, and oftentimes sets up serious skin
troubles, such as Milk Crust, Rash,
Itch, and Scalp diseases. These poison-
ous matters are freely used in common
toilet soaps, and they cause no end
of mischief to the tiny ones.
Ihe quality of the soap used has an important bearing on the health in infanev as wpII m i-*
a >so utely necessary, and, above all, let it be of the purest quality. Zam-Buk Medicinal ToilEt Snan 8 ' a' 16 USC a sk * n soa P is
composed of unique ingredients of the highest degree of excellence, and combines soothfn" sofr!nfna fr P «<>ap necessary to use. • It is
its application to the skin. Children are freed from the skin affections that usually menace them and San,fcatm §' lnfl uences in
' SbU,lt “ ° f y bath, it ma y be ZJ
THE BEST SOAP,
i'o! 1 eczema, pimples, freckles, sunburn,
blackheads, sallow complexion, rash, offen-
sive perspiration from body and feet,
facial blemishes, and all childish skin ail-
ments, the use of Zam-Buk Soap is un-
surpassed.
( Zam-Buk Soap can be obtained from all
Chemists and Stores throughout New
Zealand, or direct from the Zam-Buk Mfg.
Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Have
a tablet in daily use.
A
Mrs. Sam Gage, Hunter Street, Charters
Towers, Qld., writes:—l have used Zam-Buk
Soap ever since its introduction into Charters
Towers, and find it especially suitable for my
children cleansing and sweetening the hair
and scalp, removing dandruff, and beautifully
soothing, refreshing and softening for the
skin. For chafed patches it has a soothing
and healing effect, and leaves a pleasant and
refreshing sensation after use. It is a most
valuable soap for bath and toilet purposes.
The Case of an Upright Judge.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day at Samarai I met a score of miners of the
Gira and the Yodda. We knew old Westralian
rushes, and talked early Coolgardie and the Zeehan
that went before the West, and the Broken Hill
that went before Tassy.
The miners of Papua have headed a fat sub-
scription list for the building of a memorial to
Judge Christopher Robinson, a good man if a
hasty, and a fine Australian. Courage and sin-
cerity most appeal to a man, and so within a
month or two the strand at Samarai will bear the
monument to honesty and misfortune.
Back of the Mission at Port Moresby is a grave
without a sign—a mound of baked earth, and of
perished grasses, sapless as dead hair. In the
grave is the last of Christopher Robinson, Judge
and some-time Governor. The baked earth and
the dead grass cover the memory of a crime, and
the crime was not his who lies below.
On Bth April, 1001, two missionaries of the
London Mission JSuciety, named Chalmers and
lompkins, foolishly ventured on the island of
Goaribari, at the head of the Papuan Gulf,
despite the fact that on the previous day the
natives had insulted them on their own ship,
u ith a Papuan an insult never stops at an insult.
Generally speaking, if he is not quite respectful
and quite friendly to a stranger, then that
stranger he means to kill. Chalmers and Tomp-
kins went ashore in the face of all warning and at
the sacrifice of all prudence, and Chalmers and
lompkins were duly killed, with their nine native
followers, and the eleven bodies were cooked with
sago and eaten.
Goaribari is an island of 3500 inhabitants, all
cruel cannibals and men of war. On the main-
land and around the deltas are thousands of fight-
ing men, cannibals all, The punishment of
natives for a crime against a white mati is more
tor the safety of white men who come after than
in revenge of the actual death. Governor Le
JJunte arrived at Goaribari on a punitive expedi-
tion on 2nd May. The natives shot arrows at the
party; an answering volley killed some natives,
estimated on the spot to be 34, but afterwards
found to be six, on the evidence of the natives
themselves. This spirit of exaggeration was to
indirectly cause the death of Christopher Robin-
son. Le Hunte burned the dubus—long houses for
warriors and destroyed 120 canoes, and then he
sailed away. The nor’-west monsoon intervened,
and no further communication with the murder-
ing tribes was possible until the following year,
ihen a second visit was made for the purpose of
securing the actual murderers and the skulls of the
murdered. Le Hunte had told the chiefs that
the first time he came in peace, but
that next time he should come in war—
that sooner or later the murderers must be given
up, and that he demanded the immediate sur-
lender of the white men’s skulls. The possession
of a white man’s skull gives high prestige to a
A apuan. Ihe delivery of the skulls was a great
blow to the cannibals’ pride, but at last they gave
up Chalmers’ skull, though not the other. Le
AAunte concludes the journal of this expedition
. A S m~ far, then, as the villages of Dopima
and Aurotere are concerned, they have an un-
purged offence yet to account for.”
The London Mission Society had its usual im-
pudent interference with the course of justice,
a mg from London to the Government to ask
for leniency to the murderers. For the protec-
ho,L°! H vm £’ the matter of the dead men
to the law ; and the Mission cable was
an unwarrantable attempt to modify the law.
Governor Le Hunte, then, threatened to return
in war; and although he left the Possession before
out >. aric l never returned to Goaribari,
his intention and his threat on record for
f it-il benefit 0f hls success or. The legacy was
In dune, 1903, Chief Justice Robinsott Was
appointed Acting-Administrator, but too late in the
monsoon season to proceed to Goaribari that year.
On sth March, 1904, he arrived in the Merrie
-England at Goaribari. He was attended by Mr
Bruce, Commandant of Police j Mr, Jiear, the
Resident Magistrate of the local division: Mr.
Jewell, his acting secretary; and 39 native police,
armed, as usual, with rifles. Mr. Jiear Was
given charge of the arrangements for the
arrest of the murderers, as being the magis-
trate of the division, Against the usual
procedure, Judge Robinson decided to entice
the men on to the Merrie England, and to take
them prisoners. One “ usual ” plan is to give the
native twenty-four hours’ notice of intention to
arrest, and to be exceedingly surprised and
grieved when the native fails to get hitnself
arrested atthe time appointed. The better
method is to boldly surround a village, baring
nothing for numbers, and so bluffing the blacks
mto surrender, Acting on the white-police
method his lawyer’s training would naturally
suggest, the Judge, who was determined to finish
the work his predecessor had initiated, got the
natives aboard the ship, and arrested one of the
actual murderers and ten semi-prinbipals, Ho hie
ot the 1 apuan police had a private feud to
avenge, and When the hundreds of natives arouhd
and on the ship drew their boWs to shoot, a black
policeman fired and killed his than, who was aim-
ing at Captain Harvey, Commander of the Merrie
England. The officers and Judge Robinson then
ln the shooting and killed sOrrtC natives,
lhe natives immediately retreated and the firing
stopped. It had lasted Only a feW rrtiniites.
I he Judge certainly lost his head-, hilt he lbst it
bravely. As Governor, he might have directed
operations from his cabin ; but he insisted on per-
s?,na' leadership, and chivalrously took all respon-
sibility, before and after the event. The number
of killed was only eight, but hysteria made it first
200 and then 80. The excitement lasted some
days, and when calm came again the mischief was
complete.
The Merrie England proceeded to Hall Sound,
and found there the London Missionary Society
steamer, the John Williams. The Rev. 0. Abel
was on board. The Rev. 0. Abel is a missionary
of great commercial ability, as evidenced by his
mission saw-mill and boat-building ventures at
Kwato. On the 31st December, 1903, at Samarai,
i e had tried a South Sea teacher of the Lon-
don Missionary Society for perjury, arising out of
a charge preferred against him of intimacy with a
native s wife. The Judge found the mission
teacher, guilty, and sentenced him to twelve
months hard labor. The missionaries complained
bitterly of the sentence, and because of it frankly
disliked the Judge.
Rumor waxed shrill over the shooting, and the
Rev. C. Abel got a hearsay account of the affair.
.Then the Lev. C. Abel went to Australia, whither
Captain Harvey had preceded him, and on 22nd
bamr— 6 Wr ° te * rom 00^t0Wn this letter to Bris-
vouaTsamarl? very sorry I did not see
Goarib-fri v 1 ">?i nted J t 0 a talk with you about
onneernL Y “ . Wlll understand how intimately this
AcMnl u? society.; and lam anxious; in reporting- the
mere hears™y." Sfclator 8 lat ® V ' Siti t 0 give facts > aild »ot
through feelihg Of disgust afid indignation
through New Guinea over the uh-British action of Mr.
a, ' d ’ apart.altogether from arty report which I
, a J T ‘ a bi he r tb " ig ls bound to comb out-. Idm writing
to ask whether I have facts; and, if not; whether you will
puo me rigntv
Ihe questions that follow suggest the writer's
ignorance of anything but hearsay, despite his
assurance of “ the widespread feeling of disgust
and indignation” over “an Un-British action”
whose sole base was rumor; The Rev. C. Abel
proceeded to ask Captain Harvey these questions:
(I) The Acting-Administrator went to Goaribari in
UrS&JSa, What polio. Mad ],e? fl„.
(4) Tiiat about sixty natives came ortt in cartOeS and
demons r 6 M i n ' ie En - land - They made no warlike
vitation l So ? ’ and Cam 6 oh board afc Mr - Robinson’s in-
(s) That the Actiilg-Administrator had arranged a
signal with his police to seize and capture ten or so
,lat ' v<^ , as s° ol ' as they came on board. Is that so ?
(o) lhat On his signal being given; nine itien were made
board So ? reSt made 4 rUh foi- ifci and J um P ed ov6r ’
(7) That thereupon the Acting-Administrator fifed oh
on ®>, a " u d ? a Y. e ord ® rS t 0 Pehee to follow his example. So ?
wv lhat the entire jiarty of visiting riatives were shot,
some swimming to canolas and sOnie in cartoes; and that
those massacred numbered sikty. SO?
WThat riirie prisorierS were taken to idoresby.
(10) That Jewell and BrUcb; on being ordered to firb
deliberately refused td do so. IS that SO ?
(II) That Jewell wertt rtp to the Acting-Adrtiinistiator
who was shoOtirig rtatives, and said “ YoU damned
coward, sir ! ” SO ?
Captain Harvey did riot reply to that letter
until 2 nd May; yet on 29th April the ReV.
U. Abel, bteirig iit Brisbane, t'bld to the re-
porters liis story df the happeriings. Pressed
by the External Affairs Department to re-
peat the Statements, he memorialised his
rurribrs, arid the Cbirimissibri Of Inquiry
Mas appointed; The public, with its quick
sympathies arid sudden hatreds of all forms
of dppreSsidn, believed witliduib evidence; and
regarded Jridge Robinson as a bldod-thirsty
Viliam, who hAd mad'e a battue of unarmed
savages for his pleasure. The alleged indignant
statement of Mr. Jewell to the Judge : “ You are
a damned coward, sir ! ” —Words which were neVer
uttered—gave an air of verisimilitude to the whole
story; And because the Judge was at his post
and Could not be Reached, the public indignation
was vented on any man belonging to the Merrie
England. Captain HarVey was called “ mur-
derer ” on the streets of Brisbane.
Meantime the little bureaucracy that wished to
rid itself of Judge Robinson as Administrator, but
was incapable of using such means as these to gain
its ends, Watched with something horribly like
complacency the turn given to affairs.
Judge Robinson, already weakened by fever
practically accused of murder, a sulky officialism
around him, feeling every man’s hand against
him, knowing by his knowledge of at least one of
his subordinates the evidence some of them were
capable of giving, took the way of the faint-
hearted, and shot himself. He had acted fear-
lessly in his attempts to improve the public
service, and with more than his usual energy at
(Joaribari, because two years had elapsed since
Governor Be Hunte had promised punishment.
But Bobinson know that a promise—even a wrong
promise of punishment—to a tlative mast hfcifc bt
broken if the native’s respebt for the white ttuth
is to be preserved.
Before Governor Robinsoh committed suicide,
he wrote certain statements giving the lib ditebt
to Rev. C. Abel arid Mr. Jiear, on their repdrts Of
bonversations they said they had had With himself,
Ihe Rev. 0. Abei said that Mr. Robihsbh had
told him lie would treat the natives more harshly
than Mr. Be Huntb had dorie • arid the Jtidgfe,
ni the last letter frbm his hand; said :
i emphatically deny that I have expressed mVSelf
In this way to Mr. Abel or to itiiyone else ; and of all the
uncrutnriU and vindictive stateniehts Which haVe befch
made concerning me in this matter, notie have been fhorte
painful or more intolerable than this. Mr. Jieat’s state-
ments contain much misrepresentation and several
untruths;
To use the words of the Commission iti its find-
ing
hi Judge Robinson’s last Stdteuient; he took the whole
responsibility of the affair. . . ; Mr. Jiear tried to exotib-
rate himself by inculpating the Other.
Jh the result, the ComrriissiOn absolutely ekdnb-
tated Captain Bruce, Commandant of Polibb, blit
only “practically exonerated” Mr. Jiear. Arid
it Was a Very gentleniarlly CommiSsiori, with it
general air Of sdrrolV fOr Judgb RobinsOri’s death;
and partly actuated by the spirit of “ least said;
sOohest mended.”
Abel ndight have been expected
to attend the Commission to give evidence. Hb
4 f° attehd, aiid the Coiiiinissioh blosed
without Heafyrtg him, Or hating a reply to its
telegt-ams. Inter tie wilng the Ret. C. Abel at
hiS mission station at KWato, I asked hi In why he
had nOt peed in attenddnce tO give etideiice; He
replied that presstire Of business Had necessitated
nis return to the islands. But this is ho reply At
all, and I told hihi so. Evety manly feeling'
every desire fOr justic'e, deihaiided his atipeM-
ance. 1
* , of bureaucrats held an inquest;
nd decided that Christoph'er Stanfield Robnisdh
committed suicide while insane. A triier .verdibt
would have been “death by rumdr, envy, hatred,
malice, and uricH£ritableness.” feveh th'e
commission advised certain.reforms in the fiitur’e,
\Vhich prove the rottenness pf the past. If gbo'd
government and honest officialism stay with N'ieVV
Guinea by reason Of the, cdwardly injustice, Of
three years ago, the dead man in this bonie-dry
grave in the baked hillside behind the Moresby
Mission will have a fitting monument. Meati-
time another monument goes up at Samahri.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
This prayer, which the £ig Landlord has
strangely forgotten, appeared in the sixth
Edward’s second liturgy of 1552
We heartily pray Thee to send Thy Holy Spirit into the
hearts of them that possess the grounds and pastures df
the earth; that they, remembering themselves to be Thy
tenants, may rtot rack Or Stretch out the rents of -theft
houses Or iatids, nor yet take unreasonable fines or moneVs;
after the manrier of cOv'etous worldlings but so let
them out that the inhabitants thereof may be able to pay
the rents and to ivri arid assist their families, and remem-
ber the poor. Give them grace also to consider that they
are but strangers and pilgrims in this world, having here
no dwelling-place, but seeking one to come; that'they
remembering the short continuance of this life, may be
content with that which is sufficient, and not join house
to house and land to land to the impoverishment of
others, but so behave themselves in letting their lands
tenements and pastures that after this life they may be
leceived into everlasting habitation. J


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
XShc LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
front our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
jl—frrt
CISKSESHISB
am?
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
£
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14®
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
Sizes =■
4in., 7/6 ea. ; sin., 9/6 each
Anglers* Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
CANT
B
BEAT
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new' 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, IS 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post. Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
8s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book Of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
Of Paris, Is 6d. History of Tile Rod (Flagellations
dnd the Flagellants)) scarce, lls. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.**
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE,
Plates. SO Chromos. 400 Illustrations, 1248 Pages,
it IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
Which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician, Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and Out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, Unabridged;
Cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted td
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 800 kinds, Is 3d dozen,
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions.
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s,
How TO Mesmerise, la. Mktal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc,, Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
ThaT Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is, Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted.- Letter Writer Up-
to-Datk, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers* Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
Fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d, How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints. Is 6d. French
Self Taught. Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of BoccAccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter* what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying? more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pP~ Eeiablished SB Y»ars.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT,
»
Write for rtiy
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking <
REMIT IN STAMPS* MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up* Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Ci.og Dancing Made Easy, is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of. Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, IS> lid. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alfe IA-grees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingbrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassb’s Advice to a
Wife, 3S 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300' latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series* 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. MoorJi’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
hound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
i plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
I posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
K
Oatine
is the great English
face cream you ought
to try.
If you would be freckle free
and keep your complexion
through the hot Australian summer,
you must use Oatine. It will take the
grime that soup and water cannot reach from
the pores, will keep your skin fair and soft
and prevent it drying and cracking.
Oatine is pure, made from fresh clean
healing oats and free from mineral salts or
animal fats. No matter how hot the weather
it will not go bad. It does not grow hair.
Men find it delightful after shaving.
Every Australian woman who values a
clear complexion should get Oatine now. It
is the only thing that will enable her to keep
her complexion permanently in the dry
Australian climate. .
In dainty white jare, 1 9 5 or larffe sl?e
(four times the amount). 3/o.
To he obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get a jar to-day.
HYPNOTISM
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic
“ influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age," (A pages, pro.
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism. Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
Prof. M. ICE EDWARDS, 29 0 " RttT
DYSON'S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. (id.
lightful and wickedly true.”*
“ Dc
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
*
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
/ The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, en&
She BULLETIN POST CARDS
PAOKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OP TEN, 10d-
Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d,
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David Braham & C-
-94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS SUITINGS
for SUMMER.
Periodical Shipments reach us right through
the Season.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Samples and
Self-Measure Charts.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
TAILORS,
-94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.


HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA.
Pears Annual
CHRISTMAS, 1907. READY NOVEMBER 25th.
(Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, LTD., 71*75 New Oxford Street. London.)
The Literary and Artistic Programme includes:—
Seven Great Tales
BY
Seven Great Authors
Geo. R, Sims, Barrv Pain, The Baroness
Orczy, John Strange Winter, W. Le Queux,
Frank Richardson, Cutcliffe Hyne-
Illustrated in Black and White and ip Tints, by
Seven Great Artists
Frank Dadd, R. 1., J. C. Dolman, A.R.W.S., Tom
Browne, R. 1., A. Forestier, Maurice Grieffenhagen,
Gordon Browne, R.l.', and Will Owen
In Handsome Coloured Cover, and accompanied by
Four Presentation Plates,
Each in about 13 Colours, vj2.
“A Chip of the Old Block,"
By Fred Evans. Dedicated by special
permission to Lord Robert.*?, V.C., etc.
"A Merry ’Xmas,”
By Frank Dadd, R.l. An Old English
Skating Scene.
“Dessert,"
By E. Ladell. A beautiful Study of
Fruit.
“A Quiet Pipe,”
By the late Sin Euwi,v Landseer, R.A.
SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia, GORDON & QOTCH.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘■ OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EVAMEL (Washable) -Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gag Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOEUV ENAMELS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOEIJV” BATH TUB EHAMEE. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN •' FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
YOUR PAT REPUCEPI
WITH NO ILL AFTER-EFFECTS, AND WITHOUT
DETENTION FROM DAILY ROUTINE!!
WB can turn your present Ugly, Unshapely Outlines
into lines of beauty and grace, giving you—instead of
your present cumberous, ungainly figure, one that
will be neat, trim, and symmetrical.
“ FATCURE”
the absolutely NON-poisonous, pleasant-to-take fat-
reducer, cures Obesity and overcomes Corpulency. The
worst cases permanently cured in a few weeks. The
cure is permanent and lasting. Satisfaction guaranteed.
NO RETURN OF FAT AFTER TREATMENT IS DISCONTINUED.
REPORT IMPROVED GENERAL HEALTH.
The effects of this treatment are permanent and
lasting with absolutely no ill after-effects.
ALI* PATIENTS
Manager Watworth 00. Swan oreek q,j g ,_
1 b , egan t° use your treatment some months ago I weighed 18 stone. During the first
lost . Pounds, and in the first month I had lost 22 pounds. During the first three months I lost
three stone eight pounds, and since then have been reduced to normal.
My health is better now that I am no longer fat. Yours truly, Mrs. McCLURE.
SEND 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
Exclose a 2d. stamp and let us send you—under closed
cover without marks—a Free Sample of “Fatcure” and
our book giving particulars. CALL, if convenient, and
let us explain our method. Office hours : 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Bfce Wat worth Co., Suite J,
(Entrance also Market St.) CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY.
No Letter necessary with
this Signed Coupon.
Name
Address
The Secret.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
INHERE were two men who had slain a man,
And hidden the corpse away ;
They left no trace of its hiding place
Disclosed to the light of day.
His bones were cunningly hid away
By a shrewd and a skilful plan.
Each knew that alone the secret lay
In the heart of the other man.
One was a bold and reckless wight;
And one was a slinking cur
Who sweated his fears in the dead of night,
And longed for the morning’s stir.
But time went on, and the world forgot;
Men put the tale aside ;
The corpse rose not from its lonely grot,
And the nine-days’ wonder died.
Nor came there ghost or spectre pale
As the course of the seasons ran ;
Each grew aware he had but to share
The fact with the other man.
The qther man ! But would he be true,
And hold to the secret fast ?
Though safe with one, was it safe with 1
Would he yield to some voice at last ?
So asked in the night the craven’s heart,
And ever he looked askance ;
And, urged and led by a growing dread,
He waited his evil chance.
At last it came. In a lonely place,
Where a deep, swift river ran,
From a hidden nook, with a hand that shook,
He shot the other man.
Down in the waters went the corpse
With a weight to the ankles slung;
And only with him was the secret grim—
He had stilled the other tongue 1
And time went on, and the world forgot,
And the nine-days’ wonder passed;
For out of the deeps it lifted not,
But held to its secret fast.
There’s a bent old man with a haggard face,
His glance has a furtive leer;
From the tail of his eye when he’s slinking by
There’s the glint of a craven fear;
Though he knows his secret’s safe in his breast,
And the story’s laid on the shelf,
Shall he forget what the world forgets ?
He asks himself in his grim night-sweats:
Shall a man be sure of himself i
VIC.
A.B.C.
Fact'ry 'Ands.
NICHOLAS DON AND THE MEEK ALMIRA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
NICHOLAS DON was a gay deceiver.
His attitude towards womankind was con-
sistently frivolous, and his opinion of the
sex was small but indulgent. “ They’re all
erlike,” he said, and it must be admitted that his
experience was extensive. He devoted the greater
part of his leisure to the pursuit of it, and his
audacity in “wording” cold, proud young per-
sons in the grand march past in the city on Sun-
day evenings, and his success in attaching himself
to girls in whom his first advances had seemed to
provoke unutterable loathing and contempt were
the wonder, the admiration, and the envy of
comparatively timid spirits like Benno and the
printers.
On these occasions the Don always indulged a
harmless and pleasing imposition, and presented
himself to the little lady of his fancy—or the little
ladies, for Nicholas did not hesitate in the face of
numbers—as a person of consequence. He
adopted the name of some singer or actor con-
spicuous for the moment, some well-known man
about town, a titled visitor, or a local celebrity of
great wealth, and he acted the part. Young
devils from the factories and warehouses generally
assume fictitious names when plunging into adven-
tures of this kind.
Mr. Nicholas Don did not always expect the
young lady to be deceived when he introduced
himself as Lord Savens or Walter Baker. Often
the fiction was accepted with open glee, as the
mere manifestation of a cheerful spirit. But if
the damsel were sufficiently ingenuous, and seemed
prepared to take Nicholas at his word, the carter
presumed upon her innocent, trusting nature.
Then the eye-glass appeared, the drawl became
very, marked, and the toothpick was gracefully
manipulated. The Don had carried through
many a successful impersonation of a wicked
young English aristocrat with these properties
the quill toothpick. Nicholas’s
iaith in a toothpick was profound, “Er bloke
with er bit iv say ’n’ er toothpick kin trade him-
self off ez er haide-de-kong ’r somethin’jist ez
large ez life, though he’s wearin’ trowsis that look
. he’d bin tryin’t’ blast ’em off with dinnymite,”
said the Don.
Spats’ carter admitted that his attention was
first drawn to the meek Almira by an advertise-
ment in the “Missing Friends” column of a
morning paper. Therein Almira described her-
self as a young widow and a lonely soul, and
craved the sympathy of “ middle-aged gentleman
similarly situated.”
‘ Thinks I, ‘ Wha’s ther matter with me ? ’
said the Don, long after it was all over. “I
T>n j m *ddle-aged, but I’m er symperthetic soul.
11 do er duck in, ’n’ mingle tears with Almira.
1 put on me bes’ pretties, ’n’ took me brass ring all
covered with di’monds, ’n’ me card-case, ’n’ went
orth ez ther Hon. Horace Badminton-Carte t’
yearn ’long with me Almira by happointment.
■trust me when I say she wiz jist ther best piece,
tr llttle f at widder risin’ 30, er sad, sentimental,
ush-a-bye kind, but with er savin’ bias towards
n ' s * ;ou * : " She *-°^ e me ’ er ole pot-’ri’-pan
ed dodged under ther daisies through sittin’ out-
side , ther draught in ’otel bars year in ’n’ year
out, n took me to ’er ’umble ’ome, where she
earned a onest livin’, givin’ man ’n’ his young
boxm lessons on ther pianner. I sighed over ’er
unhappy lot, ’n’ she tumbled that we was symper-
thetic souls orl right.
Iher Hon. Horace Badminton-Carte was er
young English gentleman, out ’ere fer change iv
scene ’n’ what not. I gave it to Almira strong,
she lookin’ ’er soft ’n’ simple baby mine. ‘ It’s
dem hard,’ I sez, ‘fer ah fellah to be penned in
this beastly country, but what’s ah fellah to do,
bai Jove, when the old gentleman says, “Go
there, sir, and stay there, demmy, till you’re sent
for ? That’s what ah fellah gets for being too
dooced rackety, and serve him dooced well right,
of course. By gad, it’s sobered me, by gad it has.
JJy f’d have been down to it on my bendeds
if Sir Cbawles Jradn't dropped a wemittance now
and again. As it Bye had to take a dem
billet, by gad, and Wgr.k like tally slave seven
hours a day. Bai Jpye, yes. I’m ashamed to
say where I am, positively.' By Jove, yes, by
gad.’ ”
Ihe Don, who was a close student of the drama,
got his idea of the English younger son largely
from certain familiar comedy types, but he had a
talent for dissimulation, and it must not be ima-
gined that meek Almira was necessarily a fool in
reposing some little confidence in Horace Bad-
minton-Carte, and believing in his reformation
and in his expected remittances. The idea was
that dear Horace was to call on Almira frequently,
“ with a view to the above ” when eventually the
remittances became regular, and the black sheep
was restored to parental favor. Meanwhile, they
were to regard themselves as each other’s, for
better or worse. Escapades of this kind were
meat and drink to Nicholas. He followed-up
the meek Almira with assiduity. He devoted
evenings, Sundays, and Saturday afternoons to
the quest. Twice during off-days in the city she
excused him while he darted into a bank to see
the manager respecting an idea he had that “ Sir
Chawles ” might be placing a thousand or two to
his credit. Once he detained her while he held a
cordial conversation wfith the chauffeur of a grand
motor, whom he afterwards described to her as
‘ ‘ dear old Fitzie, you know. Dooced good chap.
His people know my people at home. Beastly
rich—wanted to lend me fifty. Couldn’t think of
it, you know ; couldn’t think of it.”
The little widow found this all very convincing.
She thought Horace’s scruples in refusing to take
the fifty from dear old Fitzie a trifle strained, but
there was certainly wisdom in his heroic determina-
tion to let the governor see he could do without
that sort of thing. The Don’s only doubts were
inspired by Almira’s maid, a pert young thing of
16, who giggled foolishly at him. She also called
him “Percy” when she caught him alone, winked
with insolent familiarity, and said, “Oh, what
sort! ” in a tone that almost made Horace Bad-
minton-Carte forget himself. Horace feared that
he might have met her in some former existence.
It w'as the meek Almira who suggested the
evening at the theatre, and it was she who
financed the venture. She had a new evening
dress, and an early public display of it w'as essen-
tial to her happiness. Horace, fearing a financial
failure, raised objections. “ Fact is, me dear,”
he explained, ‘ ‘ ah fellah’s been peculiarly situ-*
ated. Dem awkward. Yes, by Jove. Fellah’s
had reverses and that sort of thing, by gad. Had
to sell his dwess clothes. Beastly vulgar thing to
do. By gad, yes. But ah fellah had no alterna-
tive—honest poverty, don’t you know.” Horace
seemed deeply moved by the contemplation of his
misfortunes, and the little fat widow was touched,
She shed two distinct tears, and strove to comfort
him with a kiss. She said she had a dress suit
that had been left by the late lamented Berryman.
It was in an excellent state of repair, and it was
at Horace’s service.
So Horace Badminton-Carte and Mrs. Almira
Berryman went to the theatre, Horace insisted
on paying the tram fare. The dress-suit was a
pretty good fit, but smelt suspiciously of pawn-
shops. It was a trifle long in the leg, and full in
the bust, but Horace had no difficulty in keeping
it on. In the coat room he brushed his hair very
flat, and arranged the parting and the curves with
artistic deftness. The effect w'as highly decora-
tive. Horace thrust an expensive red silk hand-
kerchief negligently into the front of his evening
vest. He followed Almira into the circle, with
the bland ease of a man to whom this was rather
a come-down after Vienna and Paris, but who was
prepared to be quite pleasant for all that. “The
pater always had his box, you know,” he told the
meek Almira.
In a conspicuous seat near the front Nicholas
Don flattered himself he was quite at home,
although hitherto when attending the theatre he
had been a god in the galleries. He bought
Almira a shilling box of chocolates from the boy.
He bowed graciously into the thick of the crowd
on the other side of the circle, and made some
show of being concerned on finding Sir John and
Lady Winterton present.
“Dooced annoying,” he said. “Met ’em at
Government House, you know, before the funds
gave out. Fussy old devil, Sir John. Hope he
won’t come dinning ah fellah with his demmed
invitations to dinner, by gad. ”
Almira was radiant to find there were those
present who appreciated Horace at his true social
value. She was a trifle florid in her present
setting, but the Don thought her a particularly
fine woman. It was a proud moment. He spread
himself. His attitudes were graceful. He made
excellent play with the brass ring “all covered
with diamonds,” which, he had explained,
belonged to the Badminton-Carte family jewels,
and was not to be parted with at any price. He
talked familiarly of the people in the boxes. Not
a doubt assailed him, until there came faintly to
his ear a familiar voice from the gallery, which
said:
“’Strewth, Donny, howjer do it?”
Then Horace Badminton-Carte went cold all
over, his flow of small talk was frozen under, and
suddenly the Don realised that his dress suit was
too big for him, that too much linen was falling
out in front, and that his awful night had come.
. “ Tuck in yer washin’, Nickie,” cried the voice,
in graceful allusion to Horace’s superabundance
of shirt. Something hit Nick on the head, and
bounced into the lap of the lady on his right. It
was a peanut.
There is nothing more humiliating to a young
gentleman enjoying a rare interval of high life
and superior refinement with the lady of his
heart than to become the object of loud, vulgar,
and familiar criticism. When discourteous ad-
dress is accompanied by a fusillade of peanuts, the
young gentleman fathoms the depths of human
anguish, and knows utter degradation. For a
moment the Don had a blind idea of springing
up, dashing over or through the intervening
audience, and flying from the scoffers, but pre-
sently his natural and acquired impudence came
to his aid, and he determined to see the matter
through. He leaned gracefully towards the meek
Almira, and entertained her with fluent small
talk. He flourished his toothpick. A ’cone
formed of a twisted programme, weighted with a
grape, shot like a dart from above, smote Don on
the head, and skidded into the corsage of a very
stout lady in front, where the grape remained,
A flush of rage spread all over the visible sur-
face of the stout lady; face, neck, and suburbs
glowed angrily, and she rounded on Horace
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEYS NEVER REST.
. n /»ij • L ~ wrl lrirlnPV
~ , u QOVk ftTl wii-Vi their ffreat work of filtering out uric acid and kidney
The kidneys never take a moment s rest, they P im or J nt is their work that, even though they get only
poisons day after day, night after night, as long as \ * ■ . the limbs the eyelids seem like lead; there
a little behind, no part of the system is free from danger, ie c ’ sufferer j s °moody, despondent, and irritable,
are dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains dizzy sp ® S ’ Kidney p ms are special kidney help, all their healing
This is how the fatal Bright’s disease begins..® o “ ptn’s Pills correct urinary disorders, gravel, bladder
power goes to the kidneys, and they have no actio complaint—give tone to the whole system, and make you
troubles —cure backache, rheumatism, dropsy, and eve y y P °
feel brighter, healthier, and happier.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
WAVERLEY
Mrs. T. May, 48 Newland-strcet, Waver-
ley, Sydney, says on 2nd Feb., 1907 :—“I
have read the testimony which I gave eight
years ago, stating my good opinion of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I can truthfully
say that every word is correct, and I have
still the same good opinion of this remedy.
I had contracted a severe chill across the
loins, and for a couple of years suffered with
lumbago-like pains in the small of my back.
I also'had a touch of rheumatism. But
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and
I am still quite free of every symptom of
kidney complaint. I have recommended this
great kidney remedy to numbers of suffer-
ers, and they all endorse my good opinion
of it.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling-street,
Sydney, says “My mother suffered with
severe pains across the back and in her legs.
For six months she was very bad, and some
days would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did her no
good. We saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised, and thought we would get
some and give them a trial. After taking
the first half box, we knew they were good,
for she felt a little better, and from that on
the improvement was marked, and eight
boxes completed her cure. She is now
splendid, and can get about easily. It is
twelve months since her cure, and during that
time she has not needed to take a single pill.
We feel sure that she is cured for good.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Uoster-McClellan
Co., Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Every
Picture
Tells cu
Story ”
//n I l
(f)
0 !!
Lin
0
\
vA
\ r
I \
y
I ’
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PIUS.
Badminton-Carte with an ejaculation far below
her apparent station in life. Horace was dis-
tracted at the unmerited accusation which the
address implied, and sat forward to expostulate.
He wore one of those steel-backed clip ties. The
tie jerked from its moorings, struck the stout
lady sharply on the nose, and fell into the depths,
whence it was hastily dug by the now funous
female, and flung aside. A young man recovered
the tie, and it was courteously returned to
Horace, passing from hand to hand. The inci-
dent was very popular ; everybody seemed de-
lighted.
“ What-o, Nickie, you won’t get nothin’ from
the missus Saturday,” said a voice above a voice
of friendliness touched with commiseration.
“ Doin’ in yer board on choc’lates,” added an-
other voice, in admonitory tones. )
The Don knew what was implied. The night’s
extravagance would mean a painful interval of
apologies and excuses re the overdue 13s- 6d. a
week with the frigid and suspicious landlady of
the home for single gentlemen where he lodged.
His wrath welled up. He was moved to rise and
respond in his own fierce, effective, aboriginal
speech, but at that moment the lights fell, the
curtain rolled up, and the situation was saved.
Horace Badminton-Carte did not enjoy that
first act, and the meek Almira seemed uneasy.
He was afraid her suspicions were aroused, and he
whispered something about the demned lower
orders always being stirred to malice at the sight
of wealth, breeding, and beauty. He wished to
convey the idea that the attack was the outcome
of class prejudice, and was general, not personal.
He thought of going out during the interval, but
feared that a movement on his part would pi ovoice
a demonstration that must identify him as the
boon companion of the ruffians aloft, and it was a
long way to the door. Meanwhile an occasional
peanut dropped on his head, and an occasional
one fell into the recesses of the vast female in
front.
The act was all too short, and when the curtain
came down and the lights shone out again only
two or three men moved for the door. The Don
sat very still, waiting anxiously. He forgot
Almira. The strain was awful, but didn’t last
long.
“Say, Nickie,” called a persuasive voice,
“ won’t yeh come ’n’ ’ave er beer—er long cool-
’n’-juicy?”
“ Garn, don’t lure ’im ! ” said a second, in mock
expostulation.
“ Rats ! ” cried a third. “ What’s beer t’ ther
Don after ther bar’ls iv champagne he’s used ter?”
Then the first voice again, pleadingly : “Nickie,
where did you get them round-the-’ouses ? ”
“ ’N’ that flogger?”
“ ’N’ that little dickie-shirt ? ”
Involuntarily the Don made an effort to tuck in
his shirt. The action called him to himself. He
became extremely attentive to the little widow,
and talked airily. The twenty-fifth peanut
bounced off his head. The Don was not quite
his suave, collected self. Some of his sentences
were in Horace’s speech, some in the rude utter-
ance of Nicholas Don, driver of Spats’ delivery-
van. He was perspiring a little. His hand
trembled. His ipoqo.cle refused to stick in. He
felt that every eye in the theatre was upon him.
Then came the awful voice again in anxious
warning,
“ Don, Don, yer clean fergot t’ hook ther ror
Hire’ docket off yer clobber.”
“ Wait till ther little tom from ther pieplant
gets on to this —false one ! ”
“ ’R Lizzie at ther pickle-mill.”
At this point, the specialist engaged to weed
disorderly persons out of the gallery arrived, and
expostulated with the Don’s friends up aloft. He
said he would bump them down the stairs, and
they said it was too big a trouble for a man with a
face like that, and, in the subsequent argument,
Horace Badminton-Carte escaped attention. But
the badinage was renewed in the second interval,
and the cheerful push above, having run out of
peanuts, collected orange-peel, and dropped it
into Horace’s clothes. Remarks referring to his
humble calling were exchanged in an exasperating
matter-of-fact way. He was cautioned not to
spill the devilled oysters in his lap, as the Hebrew
owner of the dress suit would certainly bankrupt
him with a claim for damages. _
“Wear ’em t’ ther two-up Friday, Ned,” said
Chiller Green.
The Don was wholly himself now, and a bottled
geyser of blazing invective and unholy wrath. A
section of orange fell on his head, and stuck there.
All was forgotten but his wrongs. He arose
before the whole house ; he shook a vengeful fist
aloft.
“Righto, Pinkie,” he cried. “I seen yeh !
I’ll put a skew on your chin Monday, see if I
don’t ! You” _
Plere Almira swung on Nick’s coat-tails, and
dragged him into his seat. The gallery had
broken into howls, shouts, laughter, stamping,
and a roar of barracking ; the dress circle was
horrified and delighted ; a small usher was tapping
at Nick’s shoulder, threatening to eject him ;
Nick was replying that if the minion didn’t get a
shift on, he’d kick the crupper off him. And then
came a violent diversion to the Don’s rescue.
Loud, angry voices sounded from the vestibule,
and suddenly a stoutish man fell into the circle
through the folding doors. The intruder was red,
dishevelled, and somewhat drunken. Pie was
uttering loud threats. Hands from outside clung
to him, other servile hands hastened to thrust him
back. He fell through the folding doors again
and disappeared.
At the sight of this man the meek Almira had
started up, and uttered a cry of distress. She sat
white and trembling while echoes of the argument
drifted in from the crush-room. She said she
was feeling ill. Then came the blessed darkness,
and the play was resumed. Happily, there were
only three acts, and when tlie curtain fell Don
and his little widow mingled with the escaping
crowd, yearning for the night air and the sweet
oblivion of back streets. But their trials were not
over. In the crush-room a large man, an angry man,
breathing whisky and bad words, arose from a
settee, and lurched at Nicholas Don. It was the
man who had fallen through the folding-doors
Almira screamed and buried herself in the press of
people.
“ Tha’s him,'’ cried the inebriate. “ Tha s the
chap ! He’s go’ my clo’s on. Gimme me clo s,
y’ scoundrel! ” , , , „„ A
The evening-dress crowd backed away, ancl
made a ring. Don was again the centre of interest.
The drunken stranger slid down, and hung on to
his trousers. He tried with violence to pull them
off. ‘ ‘ Gimme me clo’s !” he gurgled. hatcher
mean be stealin’ a man’s browsers?”
“ Who th'ell ’re you?” said Nicholas.
“ I’m ther man whosh clo’s yer wearin’, yeh
bla’guard!” gurgled the stranger. “Gimme me
There was laughter and excitement and talk of
police. The man had risen, and he barred the
way. Nicholas saw red. He drew his foe with
a feint, shot a left in on his neck, and the claimant
of the clothes went down hard, skidded on the
pile carpet, and shot under the settee. Then
Horace Badminton-Carte broke the ring and
bolted, hatless and without his overcoat. ihe
meek Almira had disappeared. Nicholas turned
to the left and ran for the slum streets, hunted by
the terror of the ignominy of being arrested in
another man’s clothes—if, indeed, it were true
that the lamented Berryman had resurrected.
In a frowsy but familiar bar parlor Don re-
viewed the situation over a consolatory beer. He
was abroad in the dyed garments of a total
stranger, pursued by the law perhaps ; his own
suit was in the little spare bedroom at the abode
of Almira ; his hat and coat were in the cloak-
room of the theatre. If the law were seeking him
the widow’s cottage was no safe place. He must
proceed with caution. He had another beer.
Three-quarters of an hour later Nicholas, wearing
a dress suit, a staring white shirt, and an old soft
felt hat—a villainous thing that had been at the
service of the cat for weeks, but the only one the
hotel wo»ld trust him with —stole down the dim,
suburban street to Almira’s garden gate.
A stout man was staggering about on the
verandah, brandishing his hands in the air, and
clamoring in drunken speech for his clothes. Ihe
house was in darkness, but curious neighbors were
hanging their heads out of adjacent houses oner-
in<>- loud advice, and all deeply interested in the
grievance of the stout man, who rattled at
Almira’s windows, pounded on her door, and
filled the night with piteous cries for his clothes.
Don ducked down a side street, found another
hotel, and stayed till kick-out, taking counsel
with long, strong drink. Then he stole back to
Almira’s cottage again. The heads were all gone,
but the stout man was sitting on the mat, with
his back to the front door, drowsing, and making
weak lamentation. Nicholas was wondering
whether it would be possible to steal by m the
gloom, and effect an entrance by the back door,
when the outcast on guard put up a howl of great
anguish, and started battering at the door again.
“ Lemme in !” he cried. “ Lemme get at the
villain who stole me clo’s ! ” Then his voice
broke, and he continued piteously, “ Oh, JYI ner
how could yeh—how could yeh ? ” He advanced
to the edge of the verandah, and addressed an
imaginary audience in tones of poignant sorrow.
“Lays ’n’ shennlemen, I’m a man o’ sorrer .
Englishman’s clo’s is his cashtle ”
Nicholas Don left him listening, and stole
away again, and talked in the cold, dark, damp
morning to his home in the distant suburb on t. e
other side of the city. He held long arguments
with policemen by the way—policemen whose
suspicions were aroused by the incongruity of his
hat and his costume. It is easy to arouse the
suspicions of policemen at 2 o’clock in the morn-
ing. On Sunday Nicholas could not venture out,
because he had only an old working spit, and the
evening clobber of a perfect stranger. On
Monday night he recovered his. overcoat and hat
at the theatre, and journeyed to Alffiira’s Ugam-.
From the door he heard the beery, melancholy
voice of the stout man within, and he was sttl|
uttering bitter reproaches about the absent clothes,
and so the person who had once been Horace
Badminton-Carte retired without knocking.
On Tuesday he discovered an advertisement ip
the “ Missing Friends” column, in which H- -R-:
C. was informed that if he appeared at go,on gt
the corner where he first met A. B. parcels might
be exchanged. Nick rolled the unfortuggte
evening suit in brown paper, and took it tq work
with him. He managed with some difficulty tq
be at the corner mentioned at noon, with tge
delivery van. Almira’s servant was waiting,
nursing a parcel.
“ What-o, Percy ! ” she cried, “. s that you ?
“ No,” growled Nicholas, “ but it s me nearest
’n’ dearest survivin’ relation. Them my soft-
goods, Sissie ? ”
Sissie nodded. “ But you gotter part up first.
I ain’t t’ be done in.” f
The Don threw down his parcel, and alter
Sissie had torn the paper and satisfied her nund
she tossed the other bundle into the van. “ Strike
me, you’re a pretty pair o’ take-downs,” she said,
“ you : n’ mar. ’
“Me ’n’ mar!” cried Don. “Gam, you
ain’t chattin’ that ther meek Almira’s your mar.
Well, I am! : N’ I s’pose ther bloke was ther
ole pot-’n’-pan ? ”
“ Yes—he’s dad. Mum’s got a legal separate,
but he comes round sometimes when ’e’s drunk
’n’ lovin’. An’ mar passed me off as the girl, for
fear your rich relations mightn’t like me. How s
Sir Charles?”
“’N’ you put the old man on t us at tner
theatre Saterdee ? ” , ,
Sissie grinned. “ Tor’ strike yeh cock-eyed or
it,” said Nicholas, bitterly.
That evening Nick encountered Pinkie in Fgg
Lane, and they fought three rounds, to their
great mutual disadvantage. The conclusion was
postponed. Nicholas did not open his parcel till
he returned home, and then he found, to his
astonishment, that it contained some old rags, a
note, and a pawn ticket for his best suit. 1 ne
note said : — T t a ,
“This is the best I can do for you. Had to
pawn your clothes to keep George drunk till I got
his own back. You are an impudent impostor.
Farewell.— Almira.”
Nicholas sat down. “’Smith!' he gasped.
“I do like that. Swelp me Jimmy Gee, 1 do
like that 1 ” And then for five minutes Nick sat in
a rigid attitude, staring blankly at the pawn ticket.
EDWARD DYSON.


“ After having recovered from rheumatic fever I was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
I\.
w
W
Sarsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
you. r 6 Get* ‘‘*A YER’S' ’ ,a I '° n Sarsapari,,as that wi| l disappoint
AYER’S. ___
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
And .Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
S’
frWJo*i
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containin'? 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
nave sola the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
otour cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to da business with you again, and to do this we must give you full
wt I he "i 8 ?- , Yo “ can return the eards ,f not sold - We hav e no connection with any other firm
tht uti la £ srest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make voii
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen. y
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
A
FOR
MAN,
It is just a trifle hard, sometimes, to settle
on a present for man that he will really
appreciate. You want to give something
that will be useful, and that will constantly
remind him of the giver, but “cannot
think what.”
If this is your case,
“ the store where
quality counts” is
ready to help'you,
and a presentation
locket like the one
illustrated is a thing
that any man would
be pleased to re-
ceive.
It is of massive de-
sign, in 9-ct. gold,
set with rubies and
pearls or imitation
diamonds, price 40/-.
If this is not exactly what you have in
your mind let us send our new Christmas
catalogue, just out. It is full of suggestions
and will materially help you in choosing
Christmas gifts.
If you send us this advertise-
mentand 1/- we will post you a
pretty willow pattern butter
dish, mounted in a'frame of
white wood. Worth nearly
double the money.
ANGUS (EL COOTE
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
George Street, Corner Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 43
hours without
incon-
■■■■»■■| venience.
-Each Capsule bears the name §O-
(MIDYj
fpHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
Oeorge Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE!
/lets like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAM PA’
CKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST-
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“PAM PA.”
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
- 16
BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
pop*CT I GARDEN SEEDS. 11,000.
I I ! Lhm laai ■ No Money Wanted,
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches end Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you—the risk is ours. You may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, forthey are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Florists’ Seed Supplu Co. 52
HAMILTON STREET.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
r Overcome Your Doubt
* hesitate to put your faith in the world famous Beecham's
r'llis, the best# safest# surest and most reliable remedy for all
stomach# liver and kidney troubles. When your stomach is out
ot order# it needs help# it must be thoroughly cleansed# strengthened
and settled. Give
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
a chance. Let them prove that they can do for you what they
have done for thousands of others during the past half century.
1 hey will promptly and effectively remove all the discomforts
which arise from undigested food: will put your system in good
condition and make life worth living. Any troubles arising from
derangement of the digestive organs will be quickly corrected by
taking Beecham s Pills. They will without a doubt promptly
Cure and Convince.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price ///§■ (56 pills) * 219 (168 pills).
AN OFFER TO MEN !
f
m
>:a
VS/ E - b , ave a ! w ‘ i y s & iven proof of anything that we
" » claimed for our Electric Belt, because we know
that there are people who claim a great deal more for
their remedies than the truth would justify. If you want
a remedy which will cure ydu, it seems wise for you to
take the. one that has cured others. We have published
thousands of testimonials from cured patients, and we
will pay in gold for evidence showing that we have ever
used a testimonial which was not true and honest.
Dr. Austin’s Electric Beit
cures Rheumatism, Lumbago, Pains and Aches in any
part of the Body, Weakness in any part of the Body,
I lred Feelings, Sleeplessness, Premature Old Age, Weak
Stomach, Weak Kidneys. We don’t ask any man to
buy our appliance on a speculation. We know that it
will cure these troubles, and we want our pay only when
the cure is complete. If we fail in our task it’s our loss,
, , not yours. All you lose is your time, and if our Belt
fails to cure you, _ you will have the satisfaction of knowing that the best, strongest, and
finest eKctric body appliance in the world—one with 50,000 cures to its credit—has failed and
that there is no cure for you in electricity. Remember our terms are
PAY CURED.
a n . =°° •
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. t
Reader, why not he able to use the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvelloxis feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through H ypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out al 1 about it. I have
just issued in hook form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysterie* and yseorets
of the Art. It contains
r hundreds of beautiful and
artistie engravings, and Is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published, For » short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d, (stamps) to cover
postage, Order to-day and learn
to H ypnotize. It is a chance of
a iife-time. Address—
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN.
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
iH
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTE!!
.
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonsConehs
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR.
]fc,j J Eb. So'd ty all Chemists.
_
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
Winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price ’£6.
Sale Price ’ ’£3 15 q
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 B
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s
Sale price .. .. , '£6ls 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. £2 15 0
12 Itifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with "cartridge
Machines and Cleaners. 6 •
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every (Sun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or' Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia. r
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
*ssr
men
and
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 dally. y
OR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co.. Ltd. and
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FRElTfor 3s. ™hUnfaernificent mwlicnf ™ if y ou apply to
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 illustrations with BeauWfuf'rn. 69^ r*j agre 2
Plate. The most interesting up-to-date, and reliable medical worlfpubhs ted* It *a tnieeuide®'
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medial all
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for sufferin'**- humanitv free
A . specimen Copy oj this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored nUh.
Also “ MIND Z°V
anywhere ls 6d (stamps)^* 011 * Mate^Address^:^ 3 ° n *'
DR. MARTIN, M.D , f “Elmley House,”
Please mention this paper when writing. , ,
15f Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
FREE


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’llgetmoreout
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sentl for
Price List
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
pood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation pood.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
TO
the
Sufferers from Deaf ness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. K, VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self,
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weiifht about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Striotly ONE MAN Rook Drills.
AGENTS: lM O I I CMDDIEDG 606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
W* Ofc U- LtmrKltKt- And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
LOCATE GOLD,
COPPER, SILVER.
For Locating IV3INES, •
LOST TREASURE &c.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON. 64 Huhter Street, SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
S'^XSJNTJES'ST.
PATERNOSTER’S
m PILLS Hi
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
a 1 FOR ■ •
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
It g'oes
straight to
the places
that need
help.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
It
does
lasting'
good.
'
i
Corresp
<? invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLARENCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
. L. SCRUTTON & CO.
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchant
[td.
HAVE IN STOCK-
SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines ancf toilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fitting?
Pulleys-r Cast, w.L, Wood, Shafting*, Hangers, <fec., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, «fcc., Iron— Bar, Bod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
WATER BAG, 14/% 20/*
(I
Is now recognised as THE
Water Filter of Australia.
Guaranteed to stop
All Disease Germs.
- Vide Bacteriological Certificates.
IF YOU VALUE YOUR HEALTH YOU Wilt BUY AN “ABBOTT.”
MADE IN GREAT VARIETY AT ALL PRICES.
The WATER BAG is particularly suitable for the country.
The ordinary Water Bag does not Filter the Water,
Write for Folder giving full description and prices. Liberal Trade Discount.
'
RAPLIN
Hand ...
Ice Machine
Will freeze Water in
3 Minutes, and make
Ice in 20 Minutes .
:
PRICK £l2 lOs.
MANUFACTURED
ONLY BY
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
