

cz
FOR
PARTICULAR PEOPLE
czxz
107 Kent
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES. RUTT/DERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Sydney,
Street,
“and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
31,503 GAS, STEAM and OIL ENGINES SOLD.
HOBA.RT.
PIONEER
cxzc
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY
Ludowici i
BELT GUARANTEED.
& Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO„
„ 7 Bent St, SYDNEY, N
Sole Agents for
Ruston’s Portable
zxc
Fitted with Latest
IMPROVEMENTS.
ENGINE PARTS MOUNTED on Machined Steel uf^Ste a m? ™ Stay ' ,niproveCl Ex P ans,on
■
Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists to GIBSON,
10/nisiny _ .. A ..I
BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
IS
Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTONS
■Pineapple Brand
t
CHUBB S SAFES
THE ROYAL
ED I S
N LAMP.
-■
Economy in Current.
Equality of Light.
THE
EDISON & SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
oUI fa}ctjj(&u) u ■& feat
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
coldsbroUgh, mort & co.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
SYDNEY
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
zcxc
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
PORTABLE.
SIMPLE:.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
CtiRABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesco
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
zx
cźxc
BECKS LAGER
As supplied to the ‘ P. 6t o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’
Steamers.
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
xzc
Trade Mark.
METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark.
5 P E/>
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c., &c
(Wholesale and Retail).
HARRIS&G
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
SPA
f AS PURE AS THE GLORIOUS DEW \
1 THAT SPARKLES IN THE LILY CUP. J
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1422.]
[Thursday, May 16, 1907.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
CASTLEREACH ST..
SYDNEY.
Quiller Couch, Poison Island, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, postage Cd.
Wicks, Thought Reading, Is, postage 3d.
Selinoourt and Sburge, Venice, fully Ulus., 12s 6d, post Is.
Iloey, Truths from the Spirit World, 3s, post 4d.
The Year-Book of Australia, 1907, 10s 6d, postage Is.
The Wisdom of Sir Walter, a companion to Waverley
Novels and Life of Scott, Os, postage Bd.
Williamson, Science in Living, 4s, postage 6d.
Gilman, Women and Economics, Bd, by post lOd.
Ensor, Modern Socialism, new edition, 6s, post 6d.
Upton Sinclair, Prince Hagen, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Vachetl, 1 inch of Prosperity, 3s, postage Sd.
Higinbotham, Making of a Merchant, 3s, post 6d
Trevelyan, Garibaldi's Defence, Bs, post (id
I en, Patron, and Public : a Critical Survey, 3s 6d, p. 6d
The Medical Annual, 1907, 8s Od, postage is 3d.
Marcus, Monism? Thoughts suggested by “Xh e Riddle
of the Universe, Is 3d, posted Is 6d.
Dean Hole Then and Now, cheap edition, ls6d. postage 4d
Lockley, Rose Drawing Made Easy, is (id, postage 3d.
ssqnfnp
■
G.WViDSO/V.
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic .
Suitable for old and young
1 Proved to be as effective, bactericidallv,
Tub Lancet :
as is Creosote.’'
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice an/d throat.”
Sold by Chemists.
The Practitioner :
and similar ailments.’
Tins, Is. 6d.
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Solo Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, /,
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Kegent
seful
wich
in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
, Queensland.
London.
13.
THE RED PAGE
ANDROMIDA
She is a snared and prisoned thing —-
A meek white moth with broken icing.
Life took her heart when it was get
Too young for grieving or regret.
And slowly tamed his prisoner —
That glowing ‘woman’s heart of her !
She did not guess what Earth could give ;
She did not know she did not live ;
Caught from the sun in Work's grey net
And in a gloomy office set,
Her breast sometimes forgot to sigh:
Some days she hardly missed the sky.
Her dewy gladness dull Work took
To write dead figures in a book;
And on her high stool, hour by hour,
She sits —a frail and long-stemmed flower !
And the days drag, each day the same:
She is so soft a thing to maim!
She, made for love, of love compact,
Has half-forgot the love she lacked ;
She waits, a harp of slackened strings:
One word of lore its music brings.
Each hour is but a death she dies :
One hand in hers is Paradise.
And when I kiss her lips at night
She is a pool of still delight,
Her low laugh a triumphant thing,
Her voice a bird on buoyant wing ;
And when I whisper low her name
Her soul is but a shaken flame !
Her soul that dreams it is alive
The grey ghouls take—from nine till five.
She adds up figures—who to me
Is a god-given mystery !
They shut her heart in ledgers up —
Her heart that is a thirsty cup !
So long her life has bled and bled,
They pay dead wages to one dead.
Ah, still we chain, our gods to mock,
Andromeda upon her rock !
Brut that young stifled heart of her.. .
Unbind me, gods, her rescuer 1
[From “London Streets,”
Adams.]
By ARTHUR H.
“LONDON STHEFTS”
1.
IN reviewing his own little book the in-
herent egotism of the author must needs
be sternly trodden under foot by the
heavy boots of the critic ; yet the
author, immolating the child of his inspiration
upon the smooth altar of criticism, may ask
indulgence for a divided mind. Abraham,
swayed by paternal love, might be pardoned
if, as he raises the sacrificial knife above
Isaac,, his arm trembles and his aim is not
sure. “ J. 8.,” whose criticism of the same
book is destined, on arrival, to adorn the
adjoining column, can doubtless be depended
upon to strike with an unperturbed and un-
faltering aim. Thus the spectator is assured
that the sacrifice will be completed ; and the
reader who watches the knife drop from the
author’s nerveless hand will see “J. 8.” in
a business-like way complete the butchery.
The critic speaks :
London Streets, by Arthur H. Adams,
(Foulis, London, per J. I. Lothian, Melb.,
2s. 6 d.), is the third book of verse
from the same pen. His Maori Land and
Other Verses, published by the Bulletin,
was his first essay in poetry; his Nazarene,
published in London, dropped from the
publisher’s into oblivion, like a stone into
mud. And now London Streets, an attempt
to give a vision of London, has been highly
approved by English critics. As is apparent
from the opening sonnet, the author has not
succeeded in unveiling the soul of that city,
which,
like a vast grey cob-web lies
Upon green England.
London is too vast, too inchoate, to be
caged behind the fourteen frail bars of a
sonnet; but when the author turns to the
streets of the metropolis, as in Fleet Street,
The Temple, and Bond Street, he has drawn a
picture that “looks like the place.” For
instance, he has struck the key-note of The
Temple in lines like these
It is a heart of silence in
The city’s heart. Slip from the din,
Knock at a little hidden door,
And peace and solitude begin !
Fleet-street’s long echoes fade away,
The cool, wide shadows drift and stay—
Staid pigeons dreaming on the flags.
And large green leaves against the grey...
There is one palpable defect inherent in
the structure of the book. Being designedly
an impression of London, it runs the
risk of becoming a mere descriptive
catalogue. It is as if the author sat down
with a map of London and “ wrote it up.”
[The author, who must perforce remain
silent, merely writhes.] The reader of
Tennyson will find here a new vocabulary—
'to her possibly repellent—a language of
‘“’buses” and “motors,” and “cabs,” and
“ brass-plates,” and “factories,” and “cos-
ters’ stalls,” and “ chimney-pots,” and
“hat-pins,” and “lifts,” and “ shops,” and
“ typewriters,” and “flats,” and “terraces,”
and “tram-cars”—surely a jargon for the
newspaper and not the poem ? Yet, how
else to picture London ? It is of these
commonplace bricks of language that the
author must perforce build verses than aim
to express modernity.
Sometimes the fog—that faery girl !—»
Her veil of wonder will unfurl,
And crescent gaunt and looming flat
Are sudden mysteries of pearl!
New miracles the wet streets show ;
On stems of flame the gas-lamps glow.
I walk upon : the wave and see
Another London drowned below.
The choice of medium is, after all, a minor
matter ; the question is not by what means
the impression is conveyed, but whether by
the chosen means the impression is adequately
conveyed. And it seems to the critic that
the balance is towards the author.
In another way the pitfall of the descrip-
tive catalogue has been avoided. Permeating
every poem is a recognition of the inalienable
romance of life—the romance of the streets,
of the shops, of the work-room, that “grimly
persistent through the grey,” uplifts and
humanises the whole sordid scheme.
In every face that passes mine
TJnfathomed epics I divine :
Lach figure on the pavement is
A vial of untasted wine !...
And so ere sleep I lie and mark
Romance’s stealthy footsteps. Hark !
The rhythm of the horse’s hoof
Bears some new drama through the dark !...
Romance lies there with outstretched hand.
It is a new and faery land
Where I, high on a lurching ’bus,
Go charioteering down the Strand !
It is in the interludes, one of which is above
printed, that this romance of the common-
place is most satisfyingly rendered. The
author s compression of phrase and reticence
in expression in this volume mark a greater
maturity in poetic technique. The charmin' r
cover design is from the pencil of George W &
Lambert.
The Author.
II.
THAT we may not be disappointed by
the rest of his book, Adams crowds
examples of his most prominent
faults into an introductory sonnet—-
The ' IP eb. \\ ith this precedent, I begin
captiously. Over-emphasis, a determination
to be forcible at any price, leads to grotesque-
ness or extravagance of phrase, excess of
heavy syllables, and abruptness of style.
Sometimes it even betrays the poet into
a comical confusion of imagery. The first
eight lines of The Web exemplify the ex-
clamatory style—the style of staring head-
lines—by leaving us gaping for a principal
verb. The line—
Are caught and strangled—and yet are not dead !
is not metrical unless we overweight the verb
are. Then take the next two lines
And at the centre, silent and full-fed,
A spider, old, contemplative and wise !
Is the spider St. Paul’s—elswhere described
as “an old Buddha”—or the Lord Mayor?
“Full-fed” rather inclines us to the latter
explanation. The opening lines of the
sestet, which begins badly with “Ah, far,”
introduce metaphorical “filaments” which
“weave wizardry” and. “claim tribute.”
Then there is a sudden, disconcerting change
of subject. The last line cannot bear the
weight of the three heavy syllables on its
tail :—
My alien heart, shrivelled and long sucked dry!
The Web is the poorest piece in the book,
but its faults are typical. There are tail-
heavy lines in Ihe Strcind. For mixture of
imagery take this :—
They shut her heart in ledgers up—
Her heart that is a thirsty cup !
Or this \ v
• • • 4 [metaphorical] thin pulse that is a spur '
io those far-sprawling limbs of her.
For imagery that is momentarily baffling or
unintentionally ludicrous, take the cabs that
Hurry like hapless driven souls :
or the “aorta” beneath Fleet-street, which
is not a sewer or a water-main, but a print-
ing press. And so forth. The headline
style characterised by a lack of verbs, and
ornamented with dashes and marks of ex-
clamation—is rampant on every page.
What has Adams tried to do ? And how ?
From the standpoint of a sojourner, he
treats various aspects of London life-
describing the streets and suggesting the
hidden human forces which find expression
■in each locality. He succeeds through vivid-
ness of description and illuminative fancy.
At his best and. his worst he is alike fanciful.
Some of the fancies, which are snatched up
•
and'strewn along his streets like confetti in
carnival, are extravagant, but many are ex
cellent. This of the milliner’s needle is
worthy of Herrick—
All day her restless needle goes,
Above those glowing flowers of dream,
Above the gossamer and gleam,
Glancing in haste and hovering nigh,
Swift as a silver dragon-fly !
The final! is the poet’s accustomed note of
admiration. But he is equally enraptured
with the last lines of this poem, which are
marred by the falseness of the concluding
rime. And this, of Hyde Park, is worthy of
remembrance :—-
It is a robe of green dropt down—
A gallant blossom-broidered gown,
Elung by the Country as she fled
Erom the grim onset of the Town.
But there are too many happy fancies for us
to attempt to do more than indicate their
nature, their quaint descriptiveness. For
example, the crowd in Regent-street—
Like bees upon the honeycomb
Upon the windows clustering !
Or the women of the pavement—
Waste souls cast out upon the heap—
The slag of passion’s furnaces !
Sometimes a well-chosen epithet—-an epithet
that for once is not “far-fet and dear
bought ’’—adds reality to the picture. We
see “slow nuzzling tugs,” for instance,
moving through the grey mist of Chelsea,
and we know that we have seen them. Of
similar quality is the description of traffic
held up by a policeman, when
.. . Patient ’buses herded wait
With squat, fierce-spitting motor-cars.
And occasionally, along with this cinemato-
graphic description, is a suggestion of some-
thing vital, the invisible sources of this
abundant life. We find it in the cart-horses
of The Strand :
Cart-horses, alien in the loud
Terror of traffic, patient, proud,
Remembering quiet meadows wide,
Superbly triumph through the crowd.
And here it comes in the revelry of the East
End :
And even here Joy beats his wings
And to drab skies his madness flings :
In these dull courts, exultantly
Life like a prisoned song-bird sings !
Solemnly rapt, on pavements wet,
The sombre children pirouette :
These are the fields of Paradise ;
The morning stars are singing yet!
These are Adams’s higher flights, when he
mounts through the breezy atmosphere of
fancy, and claps his wings at Heaven’s
gate. Bond Street is the best piece in the
little collection, and it ends on a similar
note. Throughout we have the familiar
shower of fancies, tinged with humor,
realism, _ modernity, and we draw up on the
border-line of imagination.
J.B.
The latest of the Australian bards to venture
upon publication within covers is “Gilrooney,”
whose work has delighted many a Bulletin reader.
The book, published by J. 1. Lothian, Melb.,
will be titled The Land of the Starry Cross ; and
the verses composing it will be chiefly from Steele
Rudd’s Magazine , 'The Sydney Mail , The Sydney
Worker , and The Bulletin.
The"lndependent Review, is dead, and The Albany
Review arises from its ashes. It is the same price
and the same shape, published by the same firm
(John Lane, London), and contains the same class
of articles. These have chiefly to do with insular
English politics, about which a continent can be
excused if it does not become over-enthusiastic.
The only perceptible difference in the dead and
the living review is that one had a grey skin and
the other has a red.
A volume that can be commended to all those
who fought for the Mongol in S. Africa is The
Colonials in South Africa, by Capt. John Stirling
(Blackwood). In this work the author completes
his earlier book, which dealt with the regulars in
the war. He traces the records, based upon the
despatches, of all the colonial forces engaged, and
gives prominence to the views of British regular
officers for two reasons:—(l) A colonial corps
must realise that such opinions carry infinitely
more weight than anything said about them by
themselves or by their correspondents ; (2) some
regular officers, chiefly among those who did not
take part in the campaign, have written and
spoken in a way which shows clearly that they
have failed to appreciate the importance of the
part played by the irregulars. “It is well to
answer these officers,” says the author, “ from the
mouths of their brethren in the profession of arms.
• • • It would be foolish to blink the fact that without
the irregulars the war would never have been
ended when it was.” Speaking' of the alleged
lack of discipline likely to be found in irregular
troops, Stirling remarks : “ Those who have been
associated with organised volunteers, or irregulars
raised for a special campaign, have generally
found that discipline—that is, the state of being
earnestly anxious to learn and obey—is the quality
in which such troops excel.” The book gives a
record of the work done by each corps—three-
fifths of the book being devoted to the work of
corps raised in S. Africa, the remaining two-fifths
to Canadian and Australasian troops. And the
records make brave reading, The “ colonial ” can
fight—if we give him the weapons.
THE ART OF SIYING “OH!"
The modern world does not read poetry—
but need it ? A writer in a recent Putnam’s
Magazine, Gerald Stanley Lee, has some
disconcerting things to say about what he
calls the “glamor-trade” of poetry, the
business of gilding the world.
The most important fact in modern life, which
concerns modern art, is that the world is dropping
its exclamation points. Poetry has ceased saving
“ Oh ! ” about life, and has gone into the business
of living. Poetry used to consist in saying things
and suggesting that they might be done. It con-
sists, now, in doing things, and in suggesting
while it does them, that they never can be said
. . . We may be somewhat slow in recognising that
it is neither necessary, nor desirable, nor beauti-
ful, nor possible that Oh should be said in this
modern world ; but if Oh must be said, and there
is no help for it, it takes a Tennyson to say it.
And the feat of being a Tennyson without look-
ing ridiculous is getting more complicated every
year. ... Perhaps there is no more glorious
or poetic fact about the modern world than
the fact that “poetry” is not being read
in it. A man who can take the dust from
beneath his feet and breathe his own soul
into it—a man who every day of his life makes
the air about him speak with tongues—does not
feel the need of reading poetry. ... A man who
reads Walt Whitman for two hours feels like a
poet. If he rbads Tennyson for two hours he
feels that Tennyson is a poet. The first specifica-
tion for the next poet of this modern age is that
his poetry must be smokeless poetry, and that it
must not say Oh. The modern man already feels
so much like a poet, with the wonder of his
new world —his subways, and air ships,
and wireless telegraphs about him, day and night
—that he is less likely, as time goes on, to read
poetry—except when he is tired, or when the
poetry lifts him over to his real self, the one he is
living with every day, and makes him sure he is a
poet. . . . The poem on a compost heap may or
may not be a poem, but the bare fact that a man
has been born in the world at last who can write
a poem on a compost heap, or who wants to, is a
poem in itself.
«
The statement made on this page that the late
Lafcadio Hearn was an applicant for the chair of
English at Victoria University, M.L., though
made on apparently excellent authority, is evi-
dently without basis. Charles Wilson writes
“I was a member of the Council at that time,
and am still, and when I read your statement
failed to recall Hearn’s name as having ever been
mentioned as that of an applicant for the post
referred to. Through the kindness of the Regis-
trar, I have just gone through the two lists of
applicants for the various professorships. Neither
on the list of those who applied in or to London,-
nor on the list of applications made direct to
Wellington, does' Hearn’s name appear. He
might have thought of applying, but no applica-
tion was actually made, and, as far as I can
ascertain, no member of the Council can remember
Hearn’s name ever having been mentioned. Your
implied charge of Philistinism against the Uni-
versity authorities here is the only fault I
can find in what is a very pleasant and in-
teresting article on a charmingly original and
intellectually vigorous personality.” As the
writer’s authority, though appealed to, re-
mains silent, the writer herewith, with humility,
withdraws his alleged implied charge of alleged
imputed Philistinism. The University, which
has apparently been writhing under the imputa-
tion, may now cease to writhe.
One wonders what becomes of the enormous
number of worthless novels that pour out of the
modern publishers’ presses. The solution of the
problem seems to be that somebody must read
them. It seems that there is a vast public that
demands a new love-story every week. It doe 3
not matter whether the story is good or bad: all
that public asks is that it is new. To meet this
demand a horde of magazines devoted solely to
fiction has sprung into existence. These maga-
zines have no room for illustrations; and such
publications can be produced and sold extremely
cheaply. The latest of these is The Story-Teller ,
published by Cassell’s.' The procedure of the
editor of a new magazine in England seems to be
to capture as many of the old names for his con-
tributors as he can crowd into one number. The
Story-Teller begins by Hall Caine and ends with
Nat Gould, and those who ask for popular fiction
of the latest brand should be satisfied with the
quantity provided by this magazine for sixpence.
Copies have reached us from Gordon and Gotch
and the publishers.
“In populous Melbourne there was for years
not a single Scandinavian-born grocer, and at the
present time only one.” This statement, apolo-
getically made by Jens Lyng in The Scandinavians
in Australasia (Geo. Robertson and Co.), seems
to us the proudest thing that can be said of the
Scandinavian settler. , A nation that has pro-
duced only one grocer in Melbourne, and only one
oyster-saloon-keeper, only two hotel-keepers, and
not one ironmonger, nor a single draper, is a race
that deserves the respect of Australia. For this
sturdy element in our population goes on to the
land —the place where we want him to go, while
the Dago diligently cultivates the banana and the
oyster in the city. From Dr. Solander, the
Scandinavian who landed with Captain Cook at
Botany Bay, the author traces the immigrants
from his country to Australasia down to the pre-
sent day, when the total number of Scandinavians
in Australasia is between 22,000 and 25,000. The
Commonwealth would welcome any increase in
the infusion of such an excellent and sturdy racial
strain. “ The majority marry Australian, British,
or Irish girls. The Scandinavian tongue is con-
sequently shelved; the children grow up Austra-
lians, and the father’s environment becoming more
and more British [? Australian], he gradually gets
denationalised.” Jens Lyng’s recri'd of a race
that produced vikings but doeiji not'- produce
drapers, is well worth perusal.


QUALITY IS ECONOMY.
GRATES
OF VARIOUS
KINDS,
FENDERS, STOVES, COAL VASES
OB 514
REGISTER GRATE (OB 514).
Fine Cast, fitted with Removable Front and Fireclay-
Brick—
Width 38in., height 38in., 18-in. fire ... 15s Od
Width 38in., height 38in., 22-in. fire ... 22s 6d
Width 36in., height 38in., 16-in. fire ... 11s 3d
Width 34in., height 36in. ... ... 10s 9d
Width 32in., height 36in. ... ... 10s Od
Width 30in., height 36in. ... ... 9s 6d
Width 28in., height 36in. ... ... 9s Od
Same Grate, Ground and Berlin-Blacked—
Width 38m., height 38in., 18-in. fire ... 30s Od
Width 38in., height 38in., 22-in. fire ... 32s 6d
For the comfort of a
house a good Grate
is very necessary.
There are Grates of
various kinds the
ordinary Register
Grate, the Grate with
Side Cheeks for Tiled
Panels, and the latest
and most modern, the
“ Interior ” Grate, the
latter fixed with Tiles
at each side.
0
Our Stock is replete
with different Patterns
of the above Grates.
KEROSENE HEATING STOVES.
STELLA
Hi
OB 254.
THE “STELLA.”
The latest design
in Kerosene Heat-
ing Stoves. A
LUXURY for the
WINTER. NO
SMOKE, NO
SMELL, NO
DIRT. Can be
used without any
fear of unpleasant
odours. Splendid
heat with a very
small consumption
of Kerosene.
STELU
mm
OB 255.
The “ Stella” (OB 254), Enamelled Black, Brass Font, Handle at Top. Con-
sumption of oil per hour about a quarter of a pint. Height 19Jin.
14s. 6d.
The “ Stella” (OB 255), with boiling attachment. Top can be removed when a
kettle or saucepan is required to be boiled. Consumption of oil same as “ Steda.
17s. 6d.
TILED REGISTER GRATE ob^
Fitted with Slow Combustion Fret, Projecting Canopy, and Fireclay
Brick, Fine Cast and Blacked, with Printed Tiles—
Width 38in., height 38in., 16-in. fire, 19s, 21s.
With Majolica or Enamelled Tiles—
Width 38in., height 38in., 16-in. fire, 235, 245.
Above grate can also be supplied with Tiled Canopy instead of
Iron Canopy, at Is extra.
BRASS-RAIL
FENDER.
(OB 290).
ź
Cast-Iron Stand, Berlin-Black Finish.
xzc
Coal Vases.
COAL VASE (OB 318).
Plain Japanned, Brass Mounts, with Coal Shovel,
complete—No. 1,6 s. 3d., 75., 9s. each.
COAL VASE, Japanned Oak or Walnut —
6s. 6d. each.
COAL VASE, ornamented various designs—
10s., 10s. 6d., 12s. each.
A Page from F. LABSETTER AND CO. LTD.’S General Catalogue—the Buyer s Encyclopaedia—looo illustrated pages—sent free upon request.
P. LASSETTER &. Co. Ltd., The Universal Providers
of Noted Good Values, Cheapside, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THURSPAY, MAY 16, 1907.


R
T SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDN E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses ail the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
never knew before. And life and vigour to the toots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and De icately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modem Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
“I have only used your ‘HARLENE' for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop-
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly."
I/-, 2/6 S’ 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
SF
m.
Edwards' "Harlene” Co.
95 g? 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
xcz
CREATE STRENGTH, ENERGY and VIGOR.
"pOR some time now these PILLS have been restoring- to HEALTH
when all other REMEDIES and METHODS OF TREATMENT
HAVE FAILED . ....
YOUNG, OLD and WEAK MEN and WOMEN
who are suffering from Weakness, Want of Strength and Vigor
Varicocele, due to some forms of INDISCRETION DISSIPATION’ '
MENTAL ANXIETY, or the RESULT OF OLD AGE. ’
THEY WILL POSITIVELY GIVE
STRENGTH, VITALITY, VIGOR.
Sole Agent—
xz
NO HUMBUG
or QUACKERY .
10/6 a Bottle.
COMPLETE
Two Bottles, £1
COURSE.
POSTED FREE IN
PLAIN WRAPPER.
$. H. HENSHALL, 9,i^l IST : 246 Clarendon St., South Melbourne, Vic.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. • This is the biggest offer evermade. and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
>lllllll
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
SPIRITS.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY,
Will Andrade - BOOKS
cz
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dancr, Is. Nana; Piping Hot;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola's, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court op London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wipe, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted IS 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ;
post is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Kreutzer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of the Eomish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art Studies. 5 parts, 10s. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, lst-posted, Is 3d. G«il with Three
Pair Stays, Is: posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates & engravings, 7s (id posted. Sappho, genuine,
Is. MiDwivEs’HANDßOOK,92illus.,2s6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Lover's Letter
Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning Calcula-
tor, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid,
Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
e W~AND AN V BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any addres9
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
Bm
4 *
r;77 ; V • • •>>••(• * V/>vPo^--r*-*’‘' ,i - ; .Vs
agfc#3is
2kcL
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols.
Winchester cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50, shoot
where you aim when the trigger
is pulled. They are always
accurate, reliable and uniform.
Shoot Them and YouTl Shoot Well.
Always Buy Winchester Make.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
MOSQUITOES.
t
r
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sols Makers : M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros M Sydney; Felton, Grimwadc & Co., Melbourne.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
BILIOUSNESS.
AND CONSTIPATION.
FRUIT
SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Cap mu It marked ENO’S 1 FRUIT SALT.’ Without it you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
ffnpuad only by J. O. UNO, Ltd.. ’ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS. LONDON. UNO.,
by J. O. BNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
ARTE ltd
IpiLtS
©fflfflSß’g Elf IPOHILg.
For TORPID IiVER.
For CONSTIPATION.
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Everyman and woman shouldtaowHurt
Injure the complexion, Induce Pimples SaHow Sk r
Remove the cause by using CARTER aLUua j- ,
PILLS, and above all things, fight c B ' g Llver
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER _ PILLS. Uva
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacv of these gentle little pills.
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
xcz


“I had a very severe lung trouble
and was so weak that I could scarcely
walk about or talk. All my friends
believed I could never get well. I
then began to take Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral and immediately felt an im-
provement. It took only two bottles
to work a complete cure. It certainly
saved my life.”
This is one of thousands of testi-
monials to the wonderful value of
filler's
'Cherry {federal
in cases of colds, coughs, and lung
and throat troubles of all kinds. A
standard s.sd unrivaled remedy for
sixty years. In large and small bottles.
Beware of imitation so - called
“Genuine Cherry Pectoral.” Be sure
to get “AYER’S Cherry Pectoral.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
xzcxc
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Kitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
■ n-riiir anriiTO wanted in each dis*
, All I IVt AbtNlo trict. Large iprofltr
easily made. Write at once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., w. 280 LIVERPOOL.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
The Evidence & Reason Why
ANEW
BOY
THE
EVIDENCE
zx
From 18, Brougham Street, Wool-
loomooloo Bay, Sydney, N.S.W.,
July 25th, 1906. —“My little Francis,
aged four, had not been well for
some time and did not improve.
His appetite was very poor, and he
grew pale and thin. One day I
read about Scott’s Emulsion and
gave it a trial, with most gratifying
results. Scott’s Emulsion made
a new boy of him altogether; he
is full of life, and is always ready
for his meals and enjoys them.”
(Mrs.) M. HURLEY.
xcz
The Reason WHY
He is lull ol Life
C. Scott’s Emulsion gave
strength to the system,
which thus soon began to do
its own work again. The
little chap got the nourish-
ment of his ordinary food as
well as the big extra nourish-
ment in his Scott’s. There
could only be one result—
the one recorded by Mrs.
Hurley. But remember, it
was Scott’s did this—not
some other emul-
sion “just as
good” (which, by
the way, is im-
possible). There-
fore, make sure
1 the fishman with
the fish ” is on the
package before
you buy.
xcz
TRADE MARK
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
From all Chemisfis and
Dealers in Medicines
imz
xcz
xcz
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
Bonningtom’s
IRISH NOSS
■Ksr SSsKSSSs
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
xcz
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
STOP THAT PAIN
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age,
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15 /-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether /6/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell you all about it.:
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DIABETES & BRIGHT’S DISEASE
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6*l. from “The
Bulletin ” Office.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyella’
(Regd.)
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY and
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers,
The Queen says:—“You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round,”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
xcz
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
c
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
“ New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
M Herring? in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“ Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
BYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIROULAR QUAY. [2
! It is nice to do the
; necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its ]
pleasant flavour and the feeling of {
freshntss left in the mouth, and of <
course you will soon see how !
splendidly, how easily, and how /
thoroughly it cleans. (
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores. 1
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.(
xc
NATUR-E’S
PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon
THE CONCENTRATED
PROIEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS & DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
AsK your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Land of Spain.
I’d give a year or two of life,
And count the giving gain,
To be an idle fellow
In the lazy land of Spain.
I would not care a fig for Fame,
For fortune not a rap ;
I’d wear a velvet jacket
And a feather in my cap,
My cares should leave me like the leaves
That meet their destined hour
In Vallombrosa falling—
A red, autumnal shower.
By noon I’d sing a woodland song,
By night a lord I’d reign
In some delightful castle
I built of old in Spain.
I’d ask no groaning banquet-board—
A modest meal would please—
Goat’s flesh and wine and walnuts
To eat and drink at ease.
Full-stretched upon a couch of leaves,
When birds and bees were mute,
I’d turn my heart to music
And breathe it from a lute.
A dark-eyed damsel drawing nigh
Would voice a soft refrain—
Ah, maids are for the wooing
In the passion-land of Spain !
The people here run up and down,
They sell their souls for gold ;
And all that’s worth the having
Is either bought or sold.
The blue-eyed maiden sells her heart,
The man his youth and brain—
I’d love to be an idler
In the generous land of Spain.
N.S.W.
RODERIO QUINN.
The Girls of the Morning.
We have sung our songs of the Girls of Night—
The belles of the blazing bar;
Let us sing how bright, how pure and white
The Girls of the Morning are !
Let the hansom swirl with its midnight girl—
Leave the dude with his wine-flushed dove ;
For the girls of noon are a gracious boon,
And they are the best to love !
Aye, the Girls of the Morning shine like stars
Hung out in a cloudless sky ;
Leave the scented bars and the stale cigars—
For the Girls of the Morn go by ! •
Lo, the full red lip, like a carmine strip
Laid light on a field of cream ;
The eyes that flash, and the skirts that plash
Like the waves of a wanton stream !
They are lithe and tall, and are straight withal,
Like the stems of the soaring trees;
Tis a splendid fate that would haply mate
All men with girls like these !
And a warm, rich life—if each man’s wife
Had the grace of the waving corn—
If each, like wheat, curved soft and sweet,
Like the blessed Girls of Morn !
Lo, their voices thrill with a deep, rich trill,
Most gentle and debonnair ;
Each breast is a throne for a King to own—
And bronze are their wastes of hair.
We have sung too much of the Girls of Night—
The belles of the blazing bar ;
Let us sing how bright—how pure and white—
The Girls of the Morning are !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
Ballade of Farewell.
Out of the twilight a lost wind heaves,
Mocking and rocking it swims and veers,
Waking the little folk under the eaves —
Strange little folk with low-whispered fears.
Sullen and silent the night uprears,
Flooding my soul with a potent spell.
Come to me, star of my loneliest years,
Here shall the trysting be—here farewell 1
Low on the threshold a grey Thing grieves,
The tree at the casement leans dowri and peers.
Hist! like the rustle of autumn leaves,
White as a moonbeam her faint form sheers;
Eyes far-shining, as drenched with tears,
Out of the tumult, and stress, and swell,
Safe from the highway that points and jeers,
So, in mine arms for a long farewell.
Hotly my bosom her face receives ;
Wherefore the scorn, dear heart, and the sneers ?
Since I must love you, no pang bereaves,
Though the gods are careless, and parting nears,
There shall be light when the shadow clears,
Halcyon heights when the mists dispel.
Death is outside, so bar your ears,
That your heart hear never the last farewell.
L’Envoi.
Sire, when out of the sun that cheers,
I take the tide to a slow-swung bell,
Grant that the Boatman who bravely steers
Find her who kissed me farewell, farewell I
M.L.
O. ALLAN MARRIS.


XMS
%g 0 **
Sold bv
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every jeweller
In the Colonies.
7\ Certificate Given With Each Watch.
*.*'s
©&9
'B« a
©to
0 No
1892
%
S>
ROTHEBHAHS
Estate
17501
m
HOTEL
IHETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club ana Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain ana Circular Quay m
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
£«ef/es' Hairdressers , Hair. 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
worKers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
Sfi
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JOHNOECCS
SrEGIKLUQMUR
Scotch whisky
S 5
m*
m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
.
/
Va
z
z
I
A Dainty Sample of
the world-famous Face
Cream— Creme Simon
—white, cream, or pink
powder, or a Cake of
Soap mailed free to any
address on receipt of Id.
stamp,
SOLE AGENTS,
JODBERT&JOOBERt
. MtLBOURNt •
Oatine
HAVE YOU TRIED THIS
FACE CREAM YET?
Do so now. It will remove all dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, from
the pores, and keep your skin soft and clear.
It is the one thing that will enable your com-
plexion to withstand the dry heat of the
Australian climate.
Whatever the weather, Oatine will not go
bad. It contains no animal fat or dangerous
mineral salts, being made from pure fresh
oats. It does not grow hair. Men use it
after shaving.
Get a jar of Oatine now. It costs 1/3 or a
larger size holding four times the amount, 2/6.
To be obtained at all chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia
ft
i**
T
J-
-0
A
/k
:
\
'M
a \
" •***sS*ujg
j\,
%&*£
Milk Okocolale
A concentrated sweetmeat-food of the highest order.
More nourishing and sustaining than any other.
Doctors and Analysts are unanimous in their praises
of its purity and food value. Refuse to accept sub-
stitutes. CADBURY’S is the VERY BEST IT
IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. Prepared in a
scrupulously clean factory situated in the open green
fields of the Old Country, by the Manufacturers of
Cadbury’s Cocoa
of which ** The Lancet ” says
it is “ The Standard of high-
est purity,” while “ Health ”
calls it “A Perfect Food.”
r
Wr.
5^5
§
m
m
m
m
y
jL
m.u
Chorus of stock The most Sensible Fence they've given us yer"
A FENCE WITHOUT
A FAULT.
Wholesale Agents :
E. RICH & GO.
Limited,
Sydney and
Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post OTice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1422.
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1907.
Price Go.
/,/ y/// the
BRADDON
Braddon Clause
v^ 77 /// Constitution.
/v/ was ca^ a
; B LOT,
its originator was overwhelm^^^^^
|C BILLINGSGATTpp^^
the and the
Sydney Foreigrl-Trade Press.
/They declared that N.S.W, wouldn't federate
unless the BLOT was takyriout of
And underneath
in years.
Now CarrutheraMHireatens. that N.S.W. will
unless the Braddon Blot is fixed in the
Constitution for ever.
|i Therefore the DECEASED awaits-
I _ his APOLOGY^
BRADDON’S TOMB.
Subscriptions towards this memorial will be received at The Bulletin office. Any surplus will be used towards the repayment of the
N.S.W. Public Debt, Premier Carruthers having apparently abandoned all idea of doing anything in reduction of that incubus.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia /or the A ustralians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Ryfending direct to Tins Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year .
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise•
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in lengthy or , say f 3000 words y are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. xvhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
Mo. will he returnedy or preservedy unless these conditions
are observed . When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in ItlaeTe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neios Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding , Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Ivong.—Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A (rents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6'giu. x Pin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
&e~^xzlletz7i.
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1907.
CARRUTHERS’ SURPLUS, AND HIS BOR-
ROWINGS, AND HIS ALLEGED POLICY.
New South AVales has now enjoyed the blessings
of the Carruthers Government for close on three
years—ever since Waddell threw up the sponge
without a fight, and went away to his corner,
licked when the beginning of the first round
was only visible through a telescope. About
three months hence the State will have an election
to decide whether it wants a continuance of the
blessings of Carruthers administration. Prob-
ably, by reason of the garishness of Owe’Sullivan
andtheheavy-goingordinarinessof McGowen, who
is ordinary beyond all reason, Joseph will get a
new lease of office. It is impossible to suppose that
he would do so if anybody who amounted to even
half or one-third of a statesman opposed him, but
the impossible slowness of McGowen would give
anybody a chance. A caterpillar could keep
ahead of McGowen. There is a splendid chance
just now in N.S.W. for a party which would
come out as the Federal party as against
Joseph’s sour, petty and malignant parochialism,
but the bulk of the Parliamentary Labor party
follows Joseph in his parochialism. There is
a still grander chance for a party which would
come out as the Anti-Loan crowd —the people
who would stand for sound and honest finance—
but the bulk of the Labor men haven’t the sense
to recognise the opportunity to be honest or the
need of honesty. There are brilliant exceptions—
honest men like Dacey, and a few others—but in
the main the Laborites are just sluggish borrowers
and drifters like Carruthers. There is so little
difference between the drifting Carruthers, and
the drifting Owe’Sullivan, and the drifting
McGowen, that it would be difficult for anyone
except themselves to tell one from the c }er.
Everything in N.S.W. State politics just now is
old— dreadfully old, and mouldy, and moth-
eaten, and worn-out, as one of Lytton’s
characters described England before the Conquest.
Never since there was any N.S.W. was there
more need of some one with a policy—a big man
with a big policy for preference, but even a small
man with a big policy would do. The Labor
leader, if he could get some financial common-
sense and shake off something of his unutterable
sluggishness, would do, but the curse of mental
Fat is on .Tames Sinclair Taylor McGowen.
*•**■*•
There is enough, and more than enough, in the
present situation of N.S.W. to furnish a real
leader with a rousing battle cry. Last financial
year the State had a revenue of £12,283,082—the
biggest revenue by far in all its history. Yet its
debt showed an increase during the year, and as
Carruthers has promised huge remissions of
taxation and many items of increased expendi-
ture, it is likely soon to show a much larger
increase. The State received last year about
£2,300,000 more revenue than it did in 1900, and
as the Commonwealth Government has relieved it
of fully £1,000,000 a year of necessary expenditure
since 1900, it is really about £3,300,000a year better
off. But the expenditure under the management of
the incredible Carruthers has risen up like an
armed man and swallowed all this increase. Never
in all the history of N.S.W. did the expenditure
reach the huge total that Carruthers has
brought it to. In 1900 the State pulled through
with an outlay of £10,729,741, of which about
£1,000,000 was postal, telegraph, and defence
expenditure, leaving the other items at about
£9,730,000. In 1906 the State expenditure was
£11,386,864, and as postal, telegraph, and defence
charges are now defrayed by the Australian
Government, this amount has to be set against
the £9,730,000 of six years ago. An increase
of £1,656,000 in six years is a serious item,
especially when it was a wildly-extravagant
Government with Owe’Sullivan and all his garish
ideas in it that spent the £9,730,000, and it
is a profoundly economical and “ Reform ”
Carruthers Government which spends the
£ll, 386,864. That kind of economy and “lieform”
seems about the most impudent confidence or
three-card or pea-and-thimble trick this side of
Jordan.. The Bulletin has always regarded E.
W. Owe’Sullivan as a fearsome monetary irres-
ponsible, but there may yet come a time when
N.S.W. will have to recall the cash-irresponsible
Owe’Sullivan to prevent the land being ruined
by the cash-maniac Joseph Hector Owe’Neill
Carruthers.
» • • •
Last year, it may be mentioned, N.S.W. had a
surplus—on paper anyhow. The country was
blessed with an excellent season. Many of its
minerals brought record prices. A Federal Par-
liament, which is by no means all it should be
but which is miles ahead of any State Legislature
that N.S.W. ever had, did something by its tariff
to foster manufactures, and by rigid economy was
able not only to return to N.S.W. the full three-
fourths of the tariff revenue to which the State
was entitled, but £371,023 more. So, despite the
record expenditure, N.S.W. had a fine surplus of
£1,200,000 odd—on paper. It was arrived at in
three ways : (1) By spending about £1,000,000 of
the proceeds of land sales—of money derived by
the sale of public assets —as if it were ordinary
revenue ; (2) by spending about £1,300,000 of loan
money; (3) by cutting down the old See and
Waddell sinking fund. The net result was that,
despite the payments nominally made in reduc-
tion of the public debt, and despite about
£1,000,000 derived from the sale of State lands,
and despite the great paper surplus, and despite
the splendid times, N.S.W. was more deeply in
debt at the end of the year than at the beginning.
* * * »
Therefore the questions which The Bulletin
puts are these : Is borrowing for public works to
be the normal condition of N.S.W. ? Is there
never to be any time when the State will leave off
borrowing ? Is there never to be any imaginable
revenue which will enable it to do without
borrowing ? And are there any conceivable
circumstances under which it will begin to reduce
its debt ? The Bulletin asks these questions of
the people and Parliament of N.S.W., and
especially of the fatuous Carruthers and the big
and slothful McGowen. N.S.W. will require
public works for 1000 or more years yet, and if
they are all to be built out of loans, what kind of
prospect is ahead ? It is mere hypocrisy to say
that remunerative works should be paid for out of
loans because our children will get the benefit of
them as well as ourselves, and therefore
our children should bear part of the
cost. Under the loan policy our child-
ren get the works when they are in a
partially worn-out condition, and they are left to
bear all the cost. And, in addition, this genera-
tion is selling the State lands, an asset that can
only be sold once and which belongs as much to
our children as to ourselves ; and it is spending all
the proceeds. This generation gets the land sale
money, and the use of the public works when they
are new and at their best. Future ones will get
no land sale money, will get the public works
when they are partly or wholly worn out, or
obsolescent, or entirely obsolete—and it will get
the bill. Also, it will probably have to pay for
the big war which comes to every country soon
or late, and will have to face it when the country’s
credit has been exhausted by its loafing fathers
in time of peace. The loan policy, even for re-
munerative works, is pure swindle, cowardice and
blackguardism. It is the policy of those who
care not in the least what may befall their
children and their grand-childr.j so long as
things are easy in their time.
* * * *
The public works policy, as practised in
IN.S.W., is a drifting, futile business. In very
good years it sometimes happens that a few works
are paid for out of the proceeds of land sales, and
the rest of the money is borrowed. In ordinary
years nothing is paid for out of the proceeds of land
sales, and all the money for public works is bor-
rowed. Nothing is ever paid for public works
except out of the land sale money (very rarely),
and out of loans (all the time). There is no rule
or law or principle laid down. The Government
is expected to find the money for interest on the
public debt, and for civil service salaries and
other things, out of revenue, whether times
are good or bad. If the revenue is insufficient
it is expected to find more revenue somehow.
In these matters there is a recognised principle.
As regards public works there is no principle
at all, and so much has the loan disease demoral-
ised the community that even anything like a
definite public opinion is wanting. Everything
depends on the Government of the moment. It
may charge renewals, repairs, patches, and even
replacements of broken crockery to loans, as the
drhadful George Reid did, and no statute pro-
hibits the fraud. So much is the borrowing curse
recognised as part of the system of State affairs
that last financial year, despite his surplus,
Joseph Carruthers borrowed all the money for
public works. Out of the revenue surplus (created
by land sales) some of the floating debt was paid
off, but it was evidently felt that to pay for
works directly out of the revenue would be
to create a disastrous precedent. It would be
an attack on the loan-joss. It might raise an
impression that public works might be built with-
out loans. This is so serious a matter that
Carruthers is already taking active steps to
ensure a more rapid increase of the public debt
for the future. He has handed over the proceeds
of the land-tax to local bodies. He has also pro-
mised them vast endowments. He promises to
subsidise benefit societies, to abolish the bulk of
the income-tax, to provide pensions for invalids
arid cripples, to abolish some stamp duties, to
greatly reduce railway rates, and otherwise to
disencumber himself of the assets which almost
threatened to make loans superfluous. Plainly,
Joseph Carruthers won’t be dragged away
from his loan if he can help it.
■# * m *
It is proposed to take a referendum at the
approaching State election on some futile ques-
tion about the Federal capital, and another
re the further reduction of the State legis-
lature. It is a pity that there should not be a
third one on a larger issue. The people might
be asked to state whether they consider that
there should be any reduction of taxation while
the State is, apparently, in such a beggarly
condition that it must borrow constantly, and
constantly use the proceeds of land sales as
revenue, to keep itself afloat; whether they pro-
pose that borrowing should go on for ever—or at
least till the State bursts—and, if not, when they
think it should stop $ and whether they consider
that this country has any ghost of a show to raise
the huge sums which will be necessary when war
comes this way, seeing that its futile people have
practically exhausted its credit in time of peace.
There are a few more questions which might be
put, but these three would do to begin with.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to imagine who will
propose the putting of such questions. In such a
matter the lazy, somnolent, mentally-heavy,
mentally-dragging MoGowen is just as hopeless
cis Carruthers himself. The Labor party will
doubtless drift away sufficiently from its oainful
resemblance to Carruthers to lodge a pro-
test against the proposed abolition of the
income-tax, as an objectionable attempt to relieve
the rich from their share of the public burdens ;
but in that matter it has already wasted its oppor-
tunity, and it is a back number. It is a borrow-
ing party, and a party that looks kindly on
deficits, like all the rest—there are a few bright
exceptions, of which Dacey is the most con-
spicuous, but in the main the description is
accurate. If N.S.W. is to raise loans for its
public works as a matter of habit and
principle, then, in the present condition
of its finances, the income-tax disappears quite
naturally and as a matter of course. The only
party which can complain much about its disap-
pearance is one which demands that the pro-
ceeds of the tax shall be used for public works
purposes instead of loans, and the Labor party,
even when MoGowen was awake, has never done
that. And MoGowen seems to be so very seldom
awake, and even when he is wide awake he isn’t
nearly so much awake as a man like Kingston
was when he was asleep.
SHOP SLAVES.
More than 60 years ago Thomas Hood wrote
“ The Song of the Shirt,” and that eloquent cry of
misery stirred the great heart of England. It
was such a piercing lamentation, and such a
pathetically true picture, that the great heart of
England stirs by reason of it to this day, and
every fresh generation sheds new tears over the
slave of skin and bone whom Hood depicted.
Yet for want of State interference, and for lack
of an Arbitration Court such as N.S.W. possesses,
or a Wages Board like that in Victoria, the only
difference is that the London seamstress now gets
about or Id. per day less than she did then.
The great, warm, ramshackle heart of England
doesn’t count for a straw while it only moves by
a process of tumultuous and spasmodic public
opinion, and while it doesn’t put its emotions on
the statute book. The Tory person knows this,
and outof thatknowledgehespeaksbitterlyagainst
“the tendency to over-legislation,’’and holds forth
eloquently about the advisability of “ trusting to
the silent irresistible force of public opinion.” He
understands perfectly well that the force of public
opinion will never do him much permanent harm,
or get in the way of any of his profitable oppres-
sions for more than a day or so. Except when
public opinion goes round armed with a rope,
after the fashion of Georgia or Mississippi, it
never abolished a slum, cleaned up an offensive
back-yard, restrained a seller of tuberculosis cow,
or raised the wages of a singer of “The Song of
the Shirt ”by one halfpenny per month; and
when public opinion goes round with a rope it
ceases to be opinion and becomes law—unwritten
law, Lynch law, but.still law. For thirty years
the public opinion of all the United Kingdom has
been struggling to keep the survivors of the 607
who charged at Balaclava out of the poor-house
and for want of a simple Old Age and Infirmity
Pensions Act it has failed. It always does.
* * * *
A little while ago, some of the miserably ill-
paid drapery assistants of Sydney grew tired of
waiting for the pressure of public opinion and the
warm impulses of the national soul to help them
and went to the N.S.W. Arbitration Court!
These slaves represent Commerce. They are the
rank and file of the great Importing Industry, and
the army of Calico Jimmyism. They serve in a
trade which grinds out some of the biggest fortunes
in Australia a trade in which, even when there
is a cheap sale on, the profits run to 50 per cent,
on quite a multitude of lines. And their pitiable
story of genteel poverty, of decently-clothed desti-
tution, of endless struggles, of lives without a
gleam or semblance of hope on the farthest
horizon, show that the Shirt is the same old curse
both to maker and to seller. Here is some of the
evidence condensed:—
Clerk in universal providery: Wages, 30s. a week
Has wife and five children. Pays 10s. a week rent and Is!
a week tram-fares, which leaves 19s. to support seven
persons. Occasionally receives charitable aid. Evidently
needs it badly.
Woman at same place: Has been 11 years in the firm.
Is cashier at 15s. a week. Got a whole £1 as a present
last Christmas. Lives in a room by herself and prepares
her own food. Sort of hermit.
Women in mantle department: Served a year at ss. a
week ; five years at 12s. 6d. a week ; about five years at 17s.
6d. ; and is nowin receipt of the garish remuneration of
on J?. w^°^ e il Qnid ” with about 3s. 3d. premiums on sales.
Clerk to same firm, in charge of a department, with 13
subordinates to look after: Gets 455. a week.
Saleswoman at same providery: Has been nine years
without a rise. Pay £1 a week.
Saleswoman in another big providery : Is getting 12s.
6d. a week after being 4J years in the position.
Woman in charge of a large department at same big
emporium : About 255. 6d. a week after 51 years with the
firm.
Shopwalker (the kingly apparition in the frock coat
who bobs to you when you go in): Receives 325. 6d. a
week after four years shopwalking.
ri ! i ,' er< rV'T re very niany more witnesses, but they
all told the same yarns of polite and tidy misery.
The only reason why The Bulletin doesn’t give
the names of the firms which paid these wretched
wages is that they are described as about the best
ancl the most liberal in the Sydney trade. It is to
be hoped that the names of the worst and least
liberal will be available for publication next week.
* ■* *
. The wealthy owners of the great rag emporiums
m which these wages are paid rank among the
least useful members of the community. Sydney,
with its craze for imports and its preference for
commerce rather than manufactures, has a huge
respect for the great overgrown shopkeeper. His
early struggles, and the way he “rose,” and how
he built up his sky-towering emporium till his
topmost sign can be seen almost halfway to
Maoriland, are much dilated upon. But the man
who creates a great new emporium for buying and
selling doesn’t add a penny to the country’s wealth
or productiveness. He doesn’t even increase the
amount of buying and selling that there is to be
done. He is simply a successful cannibal who
has made his big emporium by eating up smaller
ones. And this cannibalism has become a fine
art. To quote from the evidence of one witness
The protits of the clothing and mantles, if bought from
a warehouse, were between 45 per cent, and 50 per cent,
while if the goods were indented by the firm 50 per cent!
or 60 per cent, might be made. There was no chance for
a man working in a shop to save enough to start business
for himself. Witness explained at some length the way
in which the big houses were able to crush the small
shops by means of their large capital. A small man buy.
ing in Sydney would have to pay 20 per cent, more than
a firm indenting. The big houses could sell one line at
cost price, and another at a huge profit to make up the
loss on the cheap line. This cheap line would be one
handled by a small firm they wished to crush, while the
line they sold at the higher price would be one the
smaller firm could not secure.
The number of small shops is said to have greatly
decreased in Sydney of late years, they being
eaten by the big cannibal with the sky-high ware-
house. And as the chances of the small shop
become less and less hopeful, the chances of the
employee who wants to start for himself vanish
away. He degenerates into a polite slave with a
life job at 30s. a week or so. The fact that
he is. fixed for life helps to keep his wages
down. Then they are also kept down by
the struggle between the great commercial
eater and the small commercial eaten; the big
man sweats his employees because he wants lots of
money to put another 10 storeys on his warehouse,
and the small man does the same because, by reason
of the big man, he expects the bailiffs in next
week. Then wages are miserable because the
fiction of “genteel employment”—the unsoiled
hands and the black coat and so on—makes
drapery slaves plentiful. They are low also
because there was never a revolt of drapers’
assistants. They haven’t the muscle. Iron-
workers, miners, navvies, farmers, peasants,
sailors, have made a Jacquerie before now, but
never the drapery men. And they have only
begun to learn trades-unionism. The fact that
they have begun to learn that much is something.
They have grown weary—especially the woman
who gets 15s. a week after 11 years’ toil, and lives
in a room by herself—of waiting for the boss
drapers to do something for them, and have begun
to shift for themselves. The writer of this, by
the way, knows of a drapery girl in a Sydney
suburb who got |d. extra after nine hours’over-
time. She is also weary of waiting.
* • * •
The Socialist party demands, as one of the items
of its programme, the nationalisation of the means
of distribution and exchange, and when super-
cilious bagmen hear about this they scoff. Yet,
taking the draper as a single example, there is a
staggering amount of logic in the Socialists’ case.
First, they say, there are far too many drapers
living on the game. There is the great, successful
cannibal draper, who is eating up his rivals.
There is the smaller and non-cannibal draper, who
will be eaten by-and-bye. There is the partially-
eaten draper, whose remains are still hanging out
of the great cannibal draper’s mouth. Also, there
is the newly-eaten but not wholly-digested draper.
If the business was run simply to supply the
public with the drapery it required, half the
drapery emporiums, with their rents, taxes,
gas and repairs, their quarrels and struggles,
their miscellaneous expenses, their big fortunes
and big insolvencies, their buyers, bagmen,
bosses, and sundries, could be dispensed with.
Then the drapery business, which now often
shows a gross profit of 50 or more per cent, despite
all this confusion and clamor, would probably,
with the superfluous burdens eliminated, show 60
per cent. And if the business was run by the State
—the same thrifty institution which manages to
collect the Customs and Excise at the amazingly
low rate of under 3 per cent, of the takings—and
the State was content with 10 p.er cent, on its
capital, it might easily be possible to increase
wages at least one-half, and yet sell drapery 20
per cent, cheaper than at present. The big
wealthy draper would disappear, but the Socialists
say frankly that they don’t care if he does.
Landlords, left with many empty drapery shops
on their hands, would also suffer, but only
for a time; the increased prosperity and
increased population brought about by better
wages and cheap drapery would create some other
demand for their premises. Newspapers would
suffer through the loss of the profitable drapery
advt., and their trouble would probably be per-
manent. And there would be other changes. But
Socialism contends that the vast benefit accruing
to the multitude of the people would be worth
this many times over. It is out after the greatest
good of the greatest number—the same as
Christianity.
* * • •
The Bulletin often wonders if the universal
provider realises how fast he is manufacturing
Socialists—or how fast he will manufacture them
just so soon as his employees realise what Socialism
means. When every shopman had a chance, or
a hope, of starting for himself in a small way arid
growing larger in time, Socialism didn’t ap-
peal to him. Now universal providing and
low wages fast bring along the day when
it will take hard economy, celibacy, and the
savings of two centuries to give the shopman
a chance of beginning business hopefully for him-
self, and few shopmen live so long as two
centuries. When the salesman fully realises that
he will be under a boss all his life, and that the
theory of Socialism is to provide him with a boss
who will be content with much smaller profits,
and will pay much better wages, and who, being
the State, will at least be partly the shopman him-
self, he will turn Socialist. It is part of the
natural evolution of things. The three stages
are: (1) The small shop; (2) the universal pro-
videry; (3) Sosh.
JOSEPH SAYS “IT WAS NEVER IN-
TENDED.”
It is difficult to tell when N.S.W. State Premier
Carrcthers reaches his lowest depth of political
meanness in his policy of grumbling and snarling
at the Australian Government, and in his inven-
tion of sham gi’ie vances and bogus “wrongs.” There
are dark deep cellars in Joseph’s soul, and it is
hard to tell when the subterranean Joe has got so
far down that there isn’t another depth to which
he can attain. But this extract from his “policy”
speech at Kogarah, last week, indicates that
Joseph is down fairly deep just now :
Another part of the Government’s policy was
tha.t it intended to ask the Parliament and the country to
assist the Government in usinq all constitutional means
to force the Federal Government to continue to return
to the State three-fourths of the Customs revenue for
State Government purposes. (Cheers.) That was the


jaw to-day, but it would expire in 1910. It was never in-
tended, when New South Wales entered into Federation,
to hand over to the Federal authorities the whole of the
Customs duties, and that they should get control of the
whole of those duties.... The Government made it part
of its policy to urge the Federal Parliament to have a
CONTINUANCE OF THE BRADDON CLAUSE OR ITS EQUIVALENT IN
a new Constitution. (Cheers.)
■it * * *
“It was never intended when N.S.W. entered
the Federation,” says Joseph. One would almost
imagine, from the constant repetition of remarks
like that, that no other State entered the Federa-
tion ; or that the other States dragged N.S.W.
into the Union, instead of N.S.W. asking them
to come in. But leaving that aspect of the case
out of the question, the main fact is this : The
original Constitution—the one which the people
of N.S.W. accepted by 71,000 votes against
65.000, but as regards which the N.S.W. Par-
liament annulled the popular decision—differed
from the present Constitution in two great essen-
tials. It left the question of the capital quite
open, and it provided, under the Braddon clause,
THAT, FOB, ALL TIME, THREE-FOURTHS
OF THE CUSTOMS AND EXCISE BE-
VENUE SHOULD BE RETURNED TO THE
STATES, OR SHOULD BE USED BY THE
COMMONWEALTH TO PAY INTEREST
ON THE STATE DEBTS. But at that time
Carruthers and Reid were in office in N.S.W.
And the CARRUTHERS-and-BEiD Government de-
clared against this proviso with unexampled fury,
and demanded that it should be utterly abolished.
Carruthers’ leader, George Reid, stumped
N.S.W. in a frenzy of vituperation, and urged
the people to reject the measure because of the
Braddon clause. The Parliament led by Car-
ruthers and Reid had already done its best to
annul in advance any popular decision in favor of
the Constitution with the Braddon clause
in it, by raising the minimum vote required
for the acceptance of the measure from the
56,000 which had been agreed upon in the
bargain made with the other States, to 80,000.
But the Carruthers-Reid Government seemed
to greatly fear that the 80,000 vote might be forth-
coming after all, and it implored the people to
reject the Constitution because the proviso THAT
THREE-FOURTHS OF THE CUSTOMS AND
EXCISE REVENUE SHOULD BE PER-
MANENTLY RETURNED TO THE STATES
was utterly foolish and ruinous. And it had its
way. and the 80,000 minimum vote was not
reached.
Then G-eorge Reid went to the Premiers’
Conference to bully the other States into abolish-
ing the clause which provided that three-fourths
of the Customs and Excise revenue should be per-
manently returned to the States. He, as repre-
senting the Reid-Carruthers Government, made
it one of the conditions on which N.S.W. would
join the Commonwealth that the very thing Car-
ruthers now denounces should be done, and that
the very thing he now approves should be undone.
In these days, Reid and Oarruthers didn’t call
this proviso a clause providing for the return of
three-fourths of the tariff revenue to the States ;
they turned it the other way up and called it a
Blot which compelled the Commonwealth, when-
ever it wanted £l, to oppress the people by raising
£4, and out of that £4 to give the States £3 which
they didn’t require, and which would lead them
into extravagance. Reid, of the Reid-Carruthers
Government, was so far successful that he bullied
the other States into limiting the Braddon clause
tolOyears, after which time the Commonwealth, ac-
cording to the arrangement which Reid fixed up,
could keep all the Customs and Excise revenue.
Reid returned from that conference with great
pride and bingie, and amid the applause of the
Sydney morning papers, and (aided by Car-
ruthers) told the people that this was so vast
an improvement that the Bill might now be
accepted, and on his assurance, backed by Carru-
THERS, it was accepted.
* * * *
And out of this amendment, which the N.S.
Wales Government of Reid and Carruthers
harried the other States into accepting, and which
they made one of the conditions of N.S.W.’s.
adhesion to the Commonwealth, Carruthers
now makes a new Federal grievance. He asks
the people of N.S.W. to “force” the Australian
Government to put back permanently into the
Constitution the very clause or Blot which, accord-
ing to the old Reid-Carruthers Government,
made the Constitution intolerable. He adopts
the same hectoring tone about getting the clause
restored that his Government adopted a few
years ago about getting it abolished. Instead of
stating that he and his old political partners
made a grievous error when they demanded
that the Braddon clause should be obli-
terated, and asking the Commonwealth to
undo the work of those two dreadful in-
capables, Reid and Carruthers, he holds
forth blatantly as if their work had been
somebody else’s error, or somebody else’s con-
spiracy against the Ma State. He doesn’t
apologise to the other States for helping to force
the present allegedly-disastrous arrangement upon
them. Rather, he howls as if they had forced it on
him. He also says that the very thing the old Reid-
Carruthers Government demanded before the
first referendum “was never intended.” And he
hasn’t even the manliness to say a kind word for
poor old Edward Braddon in his grave, though
the case certainly calls for something of the kind.
The proviso over which the. Reid-Carruthers
Ministry and the Sydney morning papers which
barracked for it, used such language, and which
they got removed out of the Constitution (except
as a mere temporary expedient to lapse in 1910)
was what they then called the Braddon Blot, and
the coarse vituperation which Reid, Carruthers’
at-that-time chief, heaped on old man Braddon,
by reason of the Blot, was a memorable sample
of political Billingsgate. Braddon went down
to his grave with that Billingsgate still ringing in
his ears. Now Carruthers almost threatens
secession if the Blot isn’t fully restored to him at
once, and Braddon, unfortunately, is too dead to
say tohim the things that his case deserves.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Queensland’s Election: A Last Word.
On Saturday, Queensland has to decide whether
it will return Premier Kidston or go back to
Philp and the old bankruptcy of the Continuous
Ministry. Queensland is so vast, and the present
issue of The Bulletin will have wandered over
so small a section of it by election day, that it is
hardly worth while filling a great amount of space
with impassioned appeals to the State not to be-
have next Saturday like one with new rum-leaves
in his hair, and not to be a gratuitous and unpaid
fool, and not to commit suicide without remunera-
tion. So that little portion of the State which
this paper will reach by Saturday is briefly
exhorted not to be more of an ass than it can
help. Robert Philp, on his record, represents
political suicide to an extent that no other Premier
or ex-Premier or party leader in Australia does.
There is nothing against Philp’s political charac-
ter except that he hasn’t one quality which makes
a statesman. There is nothing against his political
history except that he never did the right thing by
any accident. His huge and incredible deficits;
his immense taxes, which never seemed to produce
any result in the way of keeping his accounts
square ; his huge borrowings, which were mostly
frittered away round Townsville and did mighty
little good even to Townsville ; his cutting-down
of salaries, which also never seemed to bring his
accounts any nearer solvency ; his unbounded
capacity for bringing the State to the verge of
bankruptcy, even in the best of years and with
the biggest of revenues ; his utter inability to
understand that there could be anything objec-
tionable about spending half-a-million more than
his income ; his habit of letting everything drift,
and the easy-going way in which he lent his good-
natured ear to every political bounder and axe-
grinder—-these are the things by which Philp lives
in the minds of those who take the trouble to read
up his political history. And his future, if he
should get back to power, promises to be even
wilder than his past. Roughly speaking, he
seems to be in favor of knocking something like
£500,000 a year off the revenue by abolishing taxes,
and adding about £500,000 a year to the expendi-
ture by giving everybody anything he likes to ask
for. If Philp comes back to power and lives up
to his programme, the year 1910 should see
Queensland’s credit stopped, and its securities
selling in London by the pound weight, and the
world’s financiers holding a commission de lunatico
inquirendo over a community with a wild look in
its eye and straws in its hair. For it must be
remembered that Queensland has already the
Biggest Debt per head on Earth, bar that of S. A.,
and as long as Philp was in office he kept
it ahead of S. A. Its credit is already balanced
on a razor edge, and it only requires
another year or two of the old Philp
finance, or the promised new Philp finance, to
send it over the precipice. New South Wales or
Victoria might go on another financial razzle of
the old type, and pull round ; one-tenth of the
razzle that would only give them a bad head in
the morning would make Queensland insolvent.
A State like "V ictoria, with about £45 per head of
debt, and a record of 13 years of careful financing,
is one thing; one like Queensland, which has
nearly £BO per head of debt and which only left off
a fearful financial “jag ” three years ago, is some-
thing quite different. And if it goes straight back
to the worst financial “ jagger” it ever possessed,
it will be something exceedingly different.
Round Philp are gathered all the fine old public
hogs who used to have their snouts and their
front feet in the Treasury trough in the old Philp
days—the hogs that Morgan, and Browne, and
Kidston drove away with contumely. They are
wealthy and influential hogs. They own papers,
and they manufacture public opinion. The trough
was very empty when Philp ceased to be in
charge of it in 1903, so they didn’t very much
mind being driven away, and some of them even
spoke violently about Philp because there was
nothing left in the trough save the bottom and
sides. The same receptacle is pretty full now,
though Philp didn’t fill it, and the old drove of
hogs is desperately anxious to get back to it, and
it has recovered its high opinion of Philp as the
proper man to be in charge of the swill. It was
only the lack of swill that made the drove’s
opinion about Robert of Townsville drop so
heavily four years ago. But it is Queensland’s
business to show that its opinion of the hogs
hasn’t risen, whatever has happened to the hogs’
opinion of Philp.
Nakamura and the “ Hide ” of Japan.
When recently interviewed in Wellington (M.L.)
Jap. journalist Nakamura said that he had been
round most of the White Man’s world, making
investigations and taking notes. Japan/ he said,
was anxious that all countries should admit its
subjects on terms of absolute equality, and if this
concession were not granted, there would be con-
siderable likelihood of something getting broken
in the scrimmage that was sure to eventuate.
Japan has no alternative, according to Nakamura.
Having no empty territory itself, it must find an
outlet for its surplus population; and if other
nations will not admit the Japs on terms of
equality, then territory must be found for them
by other means. This is what is known in the
vulgar tongue as “ the straight griffin.” Naka-
mura said nothing about Japan admitting white
people on terms of perfect equality. At present
the only thing a white man may do in Japan is
spend money. Property of all sorts he is barred
from owning, and in the land of the Mikado there
is a fixed determination to keep the country for
the subjects of the Mikado, and there is also
a strong determination that all subjects of the
Mikado shall have Japanese parents. With regard
to the alleged surplus population, that is quite a
new discovery, and will not stand looking into.
Millard, who spent a lot of time round the
Yellow Sea littoral, and went into the figures of
the Japanese population, reports in February,
1906, that, according to the latest statistics com-
piled by the Department of Agriculture and
Commerce, the present total area of cultivated
fields in Japan forms only 13g per cent, of its entire
surface. (The land cultivated in Europe covers
between one-third and one-half the total land
area.) This means that, of Japan’s cultivable
area, only about 48 per cent, is cultivated, and the
remaining 52 per cent, is lying idle. Therefore
Japan is capable of supporting much more than
its present population, even if it works its avail-
able land on the same comic-opera lines as at
present. But the land thatisatpresenteultivated
does not produce anything like what it is really
capable of. The “fields” are tiny enclosures,
more like children’s gardens than anything else on
earth, and, being worked by antiquated and
wasteful methods, they yield only an annual
value of 20 yen per head of the population. A
yen is equal to about 25., so the amazing Jap
manages to get only equal to £2 per head of his
population out of his land at present. Roughly,
it takes one person to cultivate one acre—in
Japan. The total area of the country, excluding
Formosa and the Pescadores, is 147,655 square
miles, and the population of 46,732,138 works out
at an average of 317 to the square mile. Belgium
carries an average of 622 ; Holland. 436 ; Italy,
303 ; England, 558 ; Saxony, 727 ; Massachusetts
(U.S.A.), 349 ; Rhode Island (U.S.A.), 407. The
most crowded portion of Japan is Western Hon-
shiu, which is staggering under the weight of 503
people to the square mile; but in Hokkaido, which
is 36,299 miles in area, there are only 23 people on
each mile. There is room for a lot of colonisation
in the great Jap province of Hokkaido. Com-
pare this with the figures of Holland and Bel-
gium, which have no surplus population.
South Holland carries 1083 people to the
square mile, North Holland 984; in Belgium
Brabant has 996, East Flanders 891, Hainault
795, and Anvers 749. Nakamura’s tale about
the surplus population will not stand investi-
gation, for it must be remembered that the
Japanese figures are further reduced by th e
island of Formosa, which has an area of 13,458
square miles, and the south end of the island of
Saghalien, which gives another 12,000 square
miles at least. Also, the Jap has taken Korea
and Southern Manchuria. The trouble is that
the Jap wants a tremendous lot for nothing, and
the present appearances point to the fact that
either the British empire or the United States
will have the unpleasant task of convincing him
that the white races do not do business on those
lines. If the job falls to the British empire, Aus-
tralia’s position will be far from pleasant.
The Decay of Tasmania.
Tasmania is a small fcstate, and old and backward
in its methods, and, as might naturally be ex-
pected under these conditions, it has the land
trouble in an aggravated form. There are only
about people to the square mile in Tasmania, and
yet from that fertile, well-watered isle, eminently
fitted to carry a dense population, the exodus of
young men, driven out by the impossibility of
finding land for settlement, started definitely 22
years ago, and has been almost continuous ever
since. The year 1885, by the way, was not abso-
lutely the beginning of the exodus—the outward
movement appeared spasmodically in many pre-
vious times, and even GO years ago there were
periods when the population seemed to have
decided that misgoverned Tassy was a good place
to get away from; but 1885 marked the be-
ginning of an exodus which has become almost
a permanent feature. And because it is the
best and sturdiest and most energetic of
tho population which has the energy to
gather up its traps and strike out for a better
land, and the poorest in mind and body who are
content to remain under unfavorable conditions,
and be the fathers and mothers of the new genera-
tion, it comes to pass that some elderly men, who
can compare the Tasmanian of to-day with the
one of years ago, declare that they trace a con-
spicuous deterioration, mental and physical, in the
people. They are becoming, by reason of dread-
ful old men like William Dodery, ex-M.L.C.,
and dreadful land-monopolists like the V.D.L. Co.,
a residuum, and the sons and daughters of a
residuum, just as the Victorians will be in a few
more years if their great estates are not broken
up, and the outflow of their best citizens in search
of land is not checked. In a faint sort of way
Jack Evans, State Premier of Tasmania—the
terribly ordinary and pottering Evans —has
begun to have glimpses of the evil. He
hasn’t the courage to break up the big estates,
and keep them broken up, with a graduated land
tax. Nor has he the courage to put a limit on
the amount of land which a new proprietor may
acquire, so as to at least prevent the great estate
disease becoming any worse than it is. But he
does a little at cutting up State lands, and de-
posits farmers on them, and calls this process
land settlement.” And while he is doing this,
the big land-grabber is buying out and evicting
small farmers and converting their holdings into
big estates and great sheepwalks at just about a
sufficient pace to counteract all Jack Evans’ faint
little efforts. Here it may be appropriate to
quote the wail of J. W. Cheek, the unusually
liberal and progressive person (as such terms go
in Tasmania) who has just been elected for
Hodery’s old Upper House constituency :
Very few people have grasped how very much of the
land of the State is being absorbed in large, unwieldy
estates of 50,000 acres and over. It is estimated that
more than half the alienated land in Tasmania is held by
300 persons or corporations. The trouble is really getting
more acute every year. For instance, 173,000 acres of
Crown lands were taken up last year. That should mean
at least 700 more land-owners, yet the returns issued
show there is only an increase of 15 persons owning' land
this year. The explanation is that some hundreds of
small farms have been absorbed in large estates. It is a
matter for discussion as to whether the amount of land
owned by any one person should not be limited by law.
This, however, should not apply to land already acquired,
but no harm will be done to any individual if owners of, say
£20,000 value of land are prevented from acquiring more.
No man holding such large areas of land can possibly put
such to its best use.
This brings Tasmania up against a conundrum.
If it cuts up, say, 173,000 acres of State lands in
a year among small settlers, and at the same time
small settlers are shoved oif, say, 150,000 acres of
land so that that area may be added to the great
estates, what will happen token the cultivable State
lands arc all disposed of ! For then, if the futije
Jack Evans policy endures, the settlement of
small farmers will practically cease, while the
absorption of small holdings by big land-grabbers
will continue. Then the exodus of the best class of
the population will go on faster than ever, and the
process of mental and physical degeneration will go
on faster, and the names of William Dodery and
Jack Evans and people of their class will become
more and more an execration. But Evans —poor
fleeting Evans —has at least an idea. He is
hunting for a curious class of immigrants. The
great inspiration that has occurred to Evans is
that old civil and military Anglo-Indians, who
are retiring from their labors in the land of curry
and niggers, and who fear to face the English
climate again, should be induced to settle in
Tassy. While the young and sturdy and enter-
prising go forth to hustle in Queensland under
better conditions, Evans proposes to replace
them by an influx of elderly, broken-down, bad-
tempered gentlemen with huge livers—many of
them widowers, most of them either childless or
men whose children have grown up and
are making their way elsewhere men
who are too old to add to Tasmania’s
rising population, or too feeble to do much
for the country, even if one here and there should
become the father of a rickety Benjamin in the
sunset of his life. Evans, in short, is advertising
for invalids, valetudinarians, superannuated
nigger-drivers, and the like. And meanwhile
young male Tasmania, driven out by the land
famine, still packs its bag and takes its ticket for
the mainland. And young female Tasmania
stays behind and becomes an old maid to a degree
unknown in any other of the Australasian States.
And meanwhile the news comes to hand that the
Hon. A. Hean, Minister for Lands and Works,
won a twopenny prize, the other day, for guessing
the weight of a fat cow at St. Mary’s, which
event was strikingly suggestive of the ways of
Tasmania’s Ministry when there is a great work
waiting to be done.
Concerning a Eeferendum.
One really good idea sticks out of the Cak-
RUTHERS programme—that of taking a popular
vote at the coming State election on a proposal to
reduce the N.S.W. Assembly to a body of 60
members. The pity is that the proposal doesn’t
include the abolition of that gathering of useless
nominees, the Upper House. One House of 60
members is quite sufficient in these days, when
State Legislatures are mere glorified municipal
councils ; and the reduction of the State Legisla-
tures should be merely a prelude to their complete
abolition and to the Unification of Australia, with
one great Australian Parliament to attend to
large national matters, and an extensive system
of Local Government to potter about small details.
Meanwhile, as a step towards abolition, the State
Legislatures should certainly be reduced, and the
money saved by the abolition of 30 members
might reasonably be applied to increasing the
pay of the remaining 60 in the hope that better
wages may bring along better men. The last
referendum taken on the subject in N.S.W. found
the people enthusiastic for reduction, but by an
impudent fake, of which the See Government
and the Labor party shared the responsibility,
they were not permitted to vote for any smaller
number than 90 members. They voted for the 90
with an energy which plainly hinted their great
willingness to vote for a still lower number if the
chance had presented itself. Exactly howmuch
energy they would display in voting for the aboli-
tion of the Upper House it is difficult to say, but
The Bulletin is convinced it would be some-
thing great. Will Carruthers make the experi-
ment? The experience of New Brunswick,
Ontario, Manitoba, British Columbia, Prince
Edward Island, Alberta and Saskatchewan (seven
Canadian provinces out of nine) which all get
along with only an Assembly, proves that in a
mere State Legislature an Upper House is just
as much an atom of needless frill as would be an
Upper House in a municipal council. The only
excuse for the retention of a thing that is need-
less and useless is that it is ornamental,
and no State Upper House in Australia has
even a remote claim to be ornamental. State
Premier Carruthers has, so far, left no footprint
on the sands of history that the next tide won’t
washout. If he abolished the pathetically useless
State Upper House, he would at least rescue him-
self from oblivion. The man who first broke
The Lay of the Last Digger-Hunt.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the Past we build the Present—
Yea, the Future, iridescent,
Is the profit fat To-morrow draws from jaded
lean To-day:
They who bore Eureka’s burden
Left the gain and all the guerdon
To the men who steer Australia towards the com-
ing battle-fray !
From those rebels we inherit
Might of arm and strength of spirit—
Ha! What grim, courageous fathers we possessed
in days of yore !
Rest ye well, ye sleeping Titans,
For the flame ye kindled brightens—
We shall raise once more the banner ye unfurled
in ’Fifty-four.
Sacred day of dim November—
Let Australians all remember
How the starry cross was lifted half-a-century
ago!
How the driving of the diggers
Set the fingers to the triggers—
How our fathers died defiant with their faces to
the foe!
Stormy days of red rebellion,
When our star in perihelion
Blazed at last in all the splendor of thy light, O
Liberty !
Final day of digger-driving—-
’Midst the clamor and the striving,
Let Australians heed its lesson, lest they taste
adversity !
Flash of scabbard, glint of sabre —
Hear the cry of hunted Labor :
“ ’Ware the traps ! ” “ The Joes are coming !”
hear the jingling spurs and bits ;
Skirmishers in front advancing—
Jacks-in-office proudly prancing—
O’er the flat the troopers gallop towards the
swarming Gravel Pits.
Speed the clay-bespattered diggers
From their claims, like hunted niggers—
Tubs and cradles are neglected. Myriad voices
throb and thrill !
Down the Main Road rolls the battle—
Stones are flying, gunshots rattle —
Lo ! the starry Flag of Freedom flutters forth on
Bakery Hill !
Round that Flag all humbly kneeling,
Pray’rs to God they lift, revealing
Strength to stand against oppressors—strength to
suffer and to die ;
Gathered there in grim alliance,
Hear their vows of stern defiance—
Vows to stand like men together, lifting Freedom’s
standard high !
O that we, all kneeling lowly
Round that banner pure and holy,
Might to God lift supplication, pledging heart and
pledging hand;
O that we, in place of tailors.
Might produce a thousand Laloks —
O that we might swear allegiance like that
vanished digger-band!
Hear the anvils faintly ringing—
Hear the digger-cohorts singing,
Bivouacked upon the hillside in the brave old
days of yore ;
Hear the midnight voices thrilling—
’Tis the sound of diggers drilling—
’Tis the voice of Freedom calling as it called
in ’54 !
Shall the years be great in number
Ere Australians, roused from slumber,
Seize their rifles as they seized them in the hours
of early dawn;
Shall their fingers, like the diggers’,
Press too late upon the triggers
As they hold their White Australia ’gainst grim
Asia’s yellow spawn ?
Came the red-coats, softly creeping,
When the digger folk were sleeping—
’Twas the bayonet-blade that stirred them from
their injudicious rest;
They were rushed without a warning
In the dim, grey hours of morning—
’Tis the side which rises early that survives the
battle test !
Must we learn once more in sorrow
That To-day decides To-morrow—
Must we write a fresh Eureka on the page of
history ?
Might of arm and strength of spirit
From our fathers we inherit;
But we’ll need to rise at daylight if we'd keep Aus-
tralia Free /
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


away from the silly tradition that there must be a
Second Chamber, which is useless when it says
ditto to the Assembly, and which only excites
popular fury when it contradicts the Assembly,
would be almost a great man in the opinion of
posterity.
♦
Decay of the House of Dodery.
A letter from Doderyland :
The House of Dodery, in Tasmania, has had another
shingle knocked off it. The removal of the roof began a
c<*uple of years ago, when semi-millionaire William
u RT j ed ’ and Adyk Douglas, aged 90, was dis-
charged. Then Peter M’Cracken, the working man’s
friend, and Charlie Russen, from the bakehouse
in Welhngton-street, were sent to the House of
the little Fat Man to say that the world was
going to have a change of rulers, and let the horny-
handed have a show at hammering out laws and
things. Last week there were three more elee-
tions for the Council. One man, from New Norfolk, was
allowed a walk-over, but the Tasmanian madhouse is at
New Norfolk, so Dean’s return wasn’t wondered at.
Dodery himself, who had sat in the House for 40 years,
! een ,k° ss chairman for three or four, retired rather
than be kicked out, and a chap who writes about spuds and
cottages under the name of “Farmer Will,” and whose
real name is Cheek, offered to take Dodkry’s place, and
lend a hand to McCracken and Co. to make things
hot in the Council. “Where’ll ye sit if ye get in?"
said an Irishman to him at one of his meetings. “ The
nearest answer I can give,” said Farmer Cheek, “is
that I’ll be close to McCracken, Russen, and Morrisby,
wherever they are.” “ I’m satisfied ; yehavemeblessin’,’’
remarked Patrick. In 40 years, Dodery had been opposed
only once not within living memory—and then the man
who opposed him lost his deposit. But Dodery thought
he could assign his seat to his nephew ; so out came
William Hartnoll, a bigger Tory (if possible) than
Dodery himself, to claim the vacancy. Also, a milder type
of Tory, one Gibson, a land-owner, appeared. The triangular
tw wound up at a place called Blessington, and there
J. W. Chee x got his majority and Blessington’s blessing.
Now, the Vandemonian House of Landlords has in it a
man who digs his own ground, and sells ploughs and
harrows—more power to him. The third seat
vacant was for Tamar, a district, like Westmoreland,
just outside Launceston. Here, old Adye Douglas’s step-
son had misrepresented the people for years. A whole
stretch of country had never elected this man at all. A
member of the House of Dodery, with the suitable name of
Rooke, died a few years ago, and then “Parliament”cuthis
constituency into halves, and gave one to Dodery and the
other to Collins ! So, last week, Collins went into that
part of the country for the first time, and the people had
never seen their member rill then, and he told them his
name was Collins, and that, though they mightn’t think
so he represented them in Parliament; and he wanted
to keep the billet. Well, this raised the ire of a village
butcher at George Town, named Brown, who swore
a great oath that he’d crush Collins, and go
into the House of Landlords himself, and not
allow them to chop and slaughter progressive
measures any more. So he uprose, and went round the
country and talked Radical politics to the farmers, and,
though the election came off in a week, butcher
}l oU , ed one , for ever y two that Collins
polled. With more time he would have done better.
Cheek says he has a dual mission—to represent
Westmoreland in the Council as it ought to be
and (secondly) whenever an election for the Council is
going to happen, to go into that district and arrange for
opposition, so that there will be no more walks-over
Cheek, the ploughman, is well equipped for the billet,
and, by-and-bye, the House of Dodery will be quite un-
roofed, and the Cheeks and Samsons will give the rotten
walls a good shake and stand from under.
■ ♦
The N.S.W. Coalition Negotiations.
The proposed coalition in N.S.W. is “off.” The
problem of conciliating 14 Progressives with one
portfolio proved incapable of solution. All the
Progressives” were so very progressive towards
the portfolio that its fate threatened to be like
that of an early martyr thrown to wild beasts at
Jtphesus. The Bulletin is open to confess that
it is rather sorry that the coalition negotiations
tailed, and that only Waddell and a few
camp-followers have gone over. There is so
Jittle difference between the Waddell and
Garruthers parties that they really should
unite and be two hearts that borrow as
one. It would be of advantage indeed if
the rage for coalition continued further, and
the section of the Labor party which shares the
Laddelluthers passion for borrowing and giving
cheek to the Australian Government joined hands
too, and left an honest remnant with a habit of
taking a decent Australian view of things to form
the nucleus of an organisation which would really
represent the sounder thoughts of N.S. Wales (for
N. S. Wales isn’t all undignified whine and reckless
finance and blind following of the linen-drapers’
organs). There are two issues of prime importance
in N.S. Wales State politics. The first is finance.
.No party is satisfactory on that point. The
Waddelers represent the old Owe’Sullivan burst
of extravagance. The Carruthersites are the
preachers and practisers of an equal extrava-
gance, flavored but not disguised by an odious
hypocrisy and profession of Reform. They
represent the shepherd who takes his rum
hot with peppermint, and then flourishes his
mendacious breath in the advocacy of teetotal-
lsm. The L'aborites are the backsliders, and the
men who call woe on their own heads because
they are wilfully blind. On the eve of last elec-
tion they were flogged into professing some sym-
pathy with honest finance, and put a half-and-half
honesty plank on their platform, and then, after
the elections, dropped the question down a drain-
pipe, and allowed a leading member of their
party scoff at it publicly with im-
punity. The second important issue of
mu ” State politics is Federalism.
There is grievous need for a party which will
courageously protest against this dismal policy of
whine and whimper and bluff and political
spelling, to which Carruthers endeavors to com-
mit the “Mother State,” a party which will
declare for Australia and against the petty
parochialism which disgraces Sydney and puts it
in the position of a sulky infant lying about sham
grievances. So far, there is no such party
Neither the Waddellers, the Carruthersites nor
the Laborites come up to the specification. Each
organisation is infected with Anti-Federalism and
provincialism, though probably in each there
is a remnant which is really Australian
and courageous enough to say so, in defiance
of the linen-drapers’ organs. The Bulletin then
would welcome a coalition which would knock all
three unsatisfactory parties into one horror, and
clear the way for an honest organisation, pledged
not to further pawn the country’s fortunes, and
williiig to be Australian and dignified in the
State’s relations with the Commonwealth. The
majority of the people would support such a
party, if it could but be materialised.
*
Darlington (Sydney) Municipal Council is, of all
the toadstool institutions that block the estab-
lishment of a Greater Sydney with the tin pot
dignity of their mayors and aldermen, absolutely
the worst. At a recent meeting of the council
this happened :
A letter was from the proprietor of a hat factory,
stating that he was placed at a disadvantage in not having-
suitable power to work his machinery. He had applied
to the City Council for a supply of electricity from their
main along the City-road. The council was agreeable
to supply the current, but could not do so until the
Darlington Council gave permission to carry the current
into the borough. He asked the council to give the
necessary consent. . ..
Alderman Cover was against the proposal. If the
Wa f adowed > it meant the introduction into the
Dorough, not only of one main, but it was quite probable
that the borough would be honeycombed with wires.
It the man wanted electricity, let him generate his own.. .
The Mayor (Alderman Spring) said they must be
very careful that they did not allow the city to
get the upper hand of them in any shape or
Ib ! vas a h66le b > 6 of humbug—a lot of rot, a lot of
twaddle—to consider that a hat factory had to be run by
p He was opposed to anything in the shape of
Greatei Sydney, and the proposal was only a “ leg in.”
And consider it well—this municipality which
towards Sydney as Joe Caruuthers wants
iN.b. w . to do towards the Commonwealth, covers
45 acres . It is the smallest municipal bumble-bee
in Australia. It would take 14 of it to make an
ordinary selection. It is carefully divided into
one ward because there isn’t room for two. It
would make a square about 450 yards each way.
? n . a “ te 9 ould g et across it in 491. seconds.
And it hires its gas from a private co., but it won’t
hire electricity from the Sydney Council lest its in-
dependence—the independence of 45 acres—
should thereby be endangered ! Ye gods !
«
There is never an Act passed for ensuring clean
cow-yards healthy cows, or sanitary slaughter-
yards, without some alderman cursing it as
and “unnecessary,” or as an
infringement ” of something or another. Last
session the Victorian Parliament passed a splendid
Pure Food Act, and already this Act has done
excellent service in Melbourne. Yet this is what
the Mayor of such an important country town as
Warrnambool has to say about it:—
T>,^ he r- M^ y ? r . repo^ed thafc he ha d read through the
A °Tf h ® con , sidered i 6 a very inquisitorial
measure If the council took it up it would be con-
tinually prosecuting. This was most disagreeable work
takenTntimh 0 d °’ h ® & c u BY ested that no action be
taken until the council was forced to do so.
And the councillors (three of whom are grocers
and so come directly under the Act) did nothing
with great unanimity. The spectacle of the
Mayor denouncing the Act for being “ inquisi-
torial would be amusing were it not for its
serious consequences. It is, of course, the essence
or a ood Act that it is inquisitorial. Even the
worst sausage rarely walks out into the street and
proclaims its own bad character. Adulterated
foods have, so to speak, to be run to earth and
dug out of their burrows ; and very often an in-
fluential citizen gets hurt in the process. Some-
times even a grocery alderman is damaged. So
the average alderman is content to be unclean
and to eat impure food. Also, for the sake of the
symmetry of things, he seems to take a delight in
making his fellow-citizens unclean animals like
himself.
The brazen and offensive manner in which the
Vic. J-P-airs both his ignorance of and his hos-
tility to all humane and progressive legislation is
now such a public scandal that something sudden
should be done m the matter. Here is what took
place at the Wilhamstown (Vic.) Court during the
prosecution of a Chinese laundry man for working
over hours : "
A constable gave evidence that the Chinese was found
ironing shirts at 9.30 p.m. After the constable left, the
accused resumed his ironing*.
Mr. Garnsworthy, J.P. : “ It is a Trades Hall Act, and
no mt° ne ® ba6 se6s f° rfc h the opinion of the people.”
The Clerk of Courts: “It is most iniquitous.”
Mr. Garnsworthy (later on) : “ Well, you can never get
the white man under this Act. It is only these poor
Chinese who are prosecuted.” p
These outrageous remarks are, it is announced to
be brought under the notice of the Attorney-
(.xeneral, and it is sincerely to be hoped that for
once in a way, that gentleman will treat the case
as it deserves. The dreadful J.P. is appointed to
enforce the law, and not to criticise it or attempt
to alter it—even if the law compelled all J’s.P to
do their own washing, like their friend, the
Hindu hawker. As for the addle-headed Clerk
v • V )u r ts V^ ho was ?° read y to say ditto to his
chief s foolishness, his action was so ridiculously
out of place that compulsory attendance at a
night school for six months would probably meet
his case.
-*•
“One of Them ” writes :
Some evidence given at the Easby Marine Inquiry
throws considerable light on the working conditions
obtaining* aboard a larg*e proportion of steamers eng’a2*ed
in the inter-State trade. The master stated that he had
been on duty for 22 consecutive hours, and then lay down
to sleep ‘ all standing.” This, of course, is the usual cus-
tom when the weather is thick or dirty. The master
according to the reading of the Merchant Shipping Act’
is always in charge and responsible, no matter How lon £
he may have to be on his feet. At no time, as things are
at present, can he legally say to his chief or any other
ofhcer, I’m played out, and going to sleep. You are in
full charge till I’ve had a rest.” The law takes no cognis-
ance of physical limitations.
But it’s not only the master who has long hours of
duty. Every officer on every vessel trading on this coast
can tell a similar story of lengthy hours worked at that
most monotonous occupation, the taking in of cargo and
then of going to sea and standing a watch right on top of
it all. In some isolated instances, arrangements are
made whereby the officer taking charge of the first watch
at sea has at least the preceding four hours to rest. But
in the majority of small vessels, where one or, at the
most, two officers besides the master are carried, such a
relief system is unknown. The wonder is not that acci-
dents occur, but that they happen so infrequentlv
In the recent case cited at the Arbitration Court one
of the points on which particular stress was laid’was
the provision of a proper chart-room in every vessel—the
room to be devoted to this purpose only—to be open at
all times to the ofhcer in charge, and to be provided with
all necessary appliances for the safe navigation of the
vessel (At present, many owners refuse to supply
charts.) \et this point was calmly waived aside by the
Court as one of little importance. The reason given was
that owners had promised to make the necessary altera-
tions when new vessels ivere built.
Over and above the futility of putting any faith in
owners promises where employees are concerned, what
about the hundreds of vessels already running in which
the court contemplates no alterations?
Accommodation of officers was another point mentioned
in the Guilds case against the shipowners, and here
again the Court was content to rest on the owners’
promise of improvement. The improvements, if left to
owners’ sweet will, are likely to happen in about 100
years time, when by consistent meanness the mercantile
marine officer has been driven off the sea. Improvements'
wdl come only when owners have to <ro round hat in
hand begging* certificated men to take charge of and run
their ships. This sounds an exaggerated statement, but
e l en ”° w 6bose 111086 kkely to know, hear of a shortage
of certificated men in various parts of the world and for
this owners have only themselves to blame
S.A. is elated. In 1906 it gained 794
people by excess of arrivals over departures, and
this makes the dry State feel good. With hardly
any coal, and a grievous scarcity of gold, silver,
lead, and other minerals, and with a great
reliable drought, the Middle State has always had
a fearsome row to hoe. Its departures exceeded
arrivals in 1882, 1885, 1886, 1887, 1888. 1889 1891
and then every year from 1894 to 1905. So the
turn of the tide makes the battling Crow-eaters
feel glad.
Cinematograph Films—loo,ooo feet for
sale or hire. All the latest successes. Send for
list. Osborn and Jordan, “My Opticians,” 393
Oeorge-street. Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose."
Theatre Royal. “The Silver Kina-.”
Criterion “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Palace “Olivia." °
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall . West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s -[ !! & Juliet ” (three nights).
m I Camille ” (three nights).
Theatre Royal “ The White Heather.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Ha 11... Mrs. Oarreno.
Athenaeum Hall “ Living Scotland.”
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
—«.
At Sydney Palace, on Saturday, “ The
Walls of Jericho ” were reared once more, to be
once more thrown down by strong man Flemming
playing as Jack Frobisher. They were jerry-
built walls anyway, but the name is a good one.
.Like the last play, “ What WouldaGentleman do?’*
t * ie ® rou &h-Flemming Co., the
Walls have as hero an Australian of the rough-
diamond description. He isn't exactly potch; rather
lie is opal as it comes from the ground. Our men
would seem to be largely set by English play-
wrights as rough gems spilin’ to get into High
society. Jack Frobisher might be an Australian
mining capitalist, but Dicky Hook in “What
Would is an English linen-draper, not an Aus-
tralian either rough or smooth. Miss Beatrice
Day has a close-fitting part in the rble of Lady
Alathea, and she plays with ease and grace. She
is an artiste who “grows ” on the public, and her
musical voice has many inflections. Mr. Norman
M Keown takes the part of Hanky Bannister
and Mr. Gregan M‘Mahon that of Hannaford,
whose bark is worse than his bite, and who
doesn t seem to have the necessary dog-license
Apparently even his bite wouldn’t hurt
much. Mr. Carter Pickford long ago fixed him-
self as a favorite with the public in the rdle of the
cold would-be-wicked Dallas, and the remainder
of the co. plays up fairly and squarely to the
principals. Quality-Street ”is being produced
there vv ednesday, Thursday and Friday nights, and
on SaJurday “Olivia” is to be presented for the
Fme m Australia. “ Olivia” is adapted from
ihe vicar of Wakefield,” which is one of the
books which everybody admires and very few
read. When it is mentioned to the ordinary
person he is so much enraptured with it, and
paws the air so wildly in the effort to express his
admiration, that he can’t get down to details.
** # #
<< er Majesty’s (Sydney) the same old
Goose” is laying the same old eggs that have
been mentioned religiously once a week for the
past five months. If copper goes up £lO a ton
more the benevolent fowl will probably produce
Chili bars; meantime she continues to be a gold
mine, as aforetime, and pays eight dividends a
week.
EMBABRAS DE RICHESSE.
Australia has got to choose between a black population
and a Jewish white one.—ISRAEL ZANGILL.
“ It'll have to be me or Thambo, Mith."
Public interest in the ghastly doings that
occur nightly at Sydney Criterion remains keen.
‘Honor Thy Father,” the current Bilanderson
hair-raiser, has not ceased to bring alternately the
cold shiver of terror to the spine, and thegentle’tear-
drip of pity to the eye of the audience ; neverthe-
less it will not continue after Saturday next. On
that date “The Squatter’s Daughter” will be
revived. This is a home-made drama, which has
put up an Australian record for popularity.
* * -:|f *
That sugary bit of sentimentalism, “ Beau-
caire,’ was revived at Sydney Royal on Saturday,
and all the gilded girleens flocked to see Julius
Knight’s superb limbs, and the gilded youths
followed them to weakly insinuate that perhaps
they are not real. “Beaucaire” is such an
impossible and sickly flower of romance that it
needs the best of playing to make it tolerable. In
the first presentation, with Miss Maud Jeffries
and Julius Knight it had that assistance; in
subsequent revivals there has been always one
conspicuous weakness in the cast. Last time the
trouble was one of Sydney’s aristocratic youths,
who undertook to show how Julius Knight’s part
could be “played by a gentleman,” and gave a
very good idea of how it might be played by a
stable-boy. On this occasion it is the grace and
charm of Miss Maud Jeffries that are lacking in
the Lady Mary Carlyle of Miss Orton. Apart
from the “star, ’ the only players who stand out
are Harry Plimmer as the Duke of Winter-
set, the British rascal who acts as so
fine a foil to the heroic virtues of the
French dandy; and Hubert Willis as Beau
Nash, the supreme snob of history, who, himself a
man of low degree, by sheer impudence became
the social tyrant of an epoch. But the mounting
and stage-management of “Beaucaire ” are splen-
did ; and if the minuets are not well danced, they
are magnificently dressed. On Saturday next
“ The Silver King” will be staged.
* .* * *
“House Pull” is a notice not often
flaunted outside the Town Hall, Sydney. Yet
after 7.J0 on Saturday night that was the legend
displayed. The Besses o’ the Barn had drawn as
if nuggets were to be given with the programmes.
One hundred and fifty bygone years of ripened
melody have worked their value into the bands-
men’s performances of to-day. It is said that the
“Besses” are hereditary bandsmen. Their
great-grandfathers were the original Barn
players. Anyway, their brazen music is
like fine old liquid sunshine. Nary a reed
or string in the band. Brasses, brasses all
the wav. and two drums. The programme was a
popular” one, and the encores were often well-
known hymns, or songs nearly approaching
sacredness. “The Lost Chord ” was given as an
organ rolls it out when a master’s hand is on the
keys. And the “soprano cornet ” rose and bowed
to an audience that was making more noise than
several cataracts. In “ The Turkish Patrol ” the
pomp and circumstance of the approach of a
regiment is so superbly described by the band as
to almost visualise the incident. Tschaikowskv
and “ Tannhauser ” selections balanced the “Lead
Kindly Light,” and “Alice, Where Art Thou?”
encores. A new programme will be given every
night, and there is every indication that the
Besses will pack the Barn as long as they stay.
Miss Josie Miles’ concert, under the
management of Mr. A. E. Balch, was a vocal and
financial success. In “Abide With Me,” the
pretty youngster gave a good account of herself,
and her honeyed voice ought to be capable of big
things in the not far future. The Garcia School
of Music assisted with the programme, and Mr,
Lawrence Campbell recited.
** * *
West’s Pictures are still booming at Sydney
Lyceum, and, in place of the Bresoians, who have
departed, de Groen’s band plays melodies that
cause the public to say, “That is good; give us
another.”
* * * *•
The only remark that has to be added to
previous remarkson thesubjectof Sydney Tivoli is
that the Bieknells are back once more, and that
the Charlenes won’t be there much longer.
* *
This is a year of plenty for Melbourne
showmen. The early door catches the early cus-
tomer. Also it is a wise father who books his
own seat. At the Royal a full house has made a
contented Bland, and the bloated treasurer has
been declaring a large surplus ever since “The
White Heather ” was brought back to uotico three
weeks ago. It is only a revival, and an old one at
that, but a sometimes discerning public recognises
the “Heather” as a revival of the fittest. And
because this handsomely-appointed melodrama is
quite free from comic relief of the silly, antiquated
kind, the present scribe begins to hope there
may be a glad time coming when theatre
audiences will always take their laughter
reasonably, instead of deriving it from an incred-
ible stage policeman, a pert parlor maid, and a
private soldier who sasses the wicked captain.
One may laugh at what is meant to be humorous
in “The White Heather” without losing one’s
self-respect. It rises superior to comic relief, and is
richly endowed withgirl, asarule. Allthisxsbyway
of coming slowly to the fact that the scene of the
Amateur Rehearsal of “Lady Godiva”seems a
little brighter than ever. The vision of Jennie
Pollock Godiva displaying an excellent figure
under the protection of the Goddess of Purity
(who is Mrs. Bland Holt) will be repeated every
week until further notice. To all bald-headed
male citizens who are leery and heavy laden the
present writer would say—Don’t miss it.
* * sis *
The task of following Miss Tittell Bruue
in her good-bye round of characters at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) is a rather arduous under-
taking. The play that happened last Saturday
was “Leah Kleschna,” the story of a larcenous
young woman, who stole her way into a wealthy
philosopher’s heart and home, and eventually cap-
tured him. for better or for worse in a reformatory
cabbage-garden, where the size and frequency of
the vegetables would have melted a Chinaman to
tears. But “ Leah ” is already a sinner of the
past, and “ Mary Ann ” is droning in her stead.
The slavey at Miss Susie Vaughan’s lodging house
is said to work hard, but she drones nevertheless.
Miss Brune will shake her curls at Romeo on
Saturday, and for two subsequent nights they
will point a warning against early marriages.
After which Juliet will resolve herself into
Camille, and Romeo will be Armand, and their
love will know no matrimony whatever.
* * ** . *
“ Living Scotland ” and many other things
are biographed at the Athenaeum Hall as usual.
Also, the Glaciarium is open to the public three
times a day, and the average quality of the per-
formance on the rink suggests that an Austral
Skate Race.is a sporting event of the future.
** * *
The location of Melbourne’s Musical Boom
(late of the Princess’s) will be shifted to the Town
Hall on Saturday, and for some few months there-
after the municipal building will be a place of
intermittent furores. On Saturday afternoon
(18th) Mrs. Carreno is to play the piano to an
Australian audience for the first time in her
famous career. She will subsequently give a few
evening recitals, but on this initial matinee
occasion the foreign lady is to appear as the soloist
in an orchestral concert conducted by Marshall
Hall. The tremendous musician last, mentioned
will conduct seven Saturday afternoon orchestrate
in all. This will be the first of them, and what
with the welcome to Marshall Hall, and the wild
excitement incidental to Mrs. Carreno, the con-
cert now impending is expected to leave the
audience in a state of nervous collapse. At such
times the Town Hall stands in sore need of a
refreshment bar.
** * *
A musical enthusiast writes :
The “ All Blacks,” at Melbourne Town Hall, advertise
themselves as “versatile,” and they are. Pa, and Ma,
and Miss Nellie (who stars), with little sister Elsie (a
pretty flautist), and brother Bert, all flock on to a cosy
room-like platform, where they wade through a maze of
violins,’cellos, and brasses, and find themselves places
to sit on among the colored ribbons of mando-
lins and guitars. Then they play just what-
ever they can lay their hands on. Occasionally, when
the melody gives one time to gasp, a he or a she of
the party snatches up a new instrument and drops the
other—they don’t seem to mind what they drop or what
they snatch—and the orchestra goes on its even tinkling
way. The whole thing has a homelike feeling, as if one
were “ out to tea.” Ma is faithful to the piano, and sits
there in a prim little way, steadily playing an overture or
accompanying a song, or violin or flute solo. The com-
pany lives up to its advertisement in everyway. “Miss
Nellie ” (in big letters) is advertised for “ tricks on the
violin,” and her tricks are real gymnastics.
*# * *
At the Princess’s there is nothing audible
just now save the lingering echo of a frantic
demonstration which marked the fifth perfoim-
ance of “The Valkyrie,” and the close of the
season —on Friday last. The Opera Co. has gone
to. South Australia, where a largely German
population will be made happy fora week or two.
It was not necessary to be a German in order to
appreciate the recent respectable performances of
German operas in Melbourne, but it was hard for
any non-German ear to be fully satisfied with
the company’s singing of non-German works.
Moreover, Miss Sara Anderson, the most accom-
plished artist of the lot, appeared only in the
three Wagner operas. During the first weeks of
the season a number of thoughtless people failed
to understand why Miss Anderson’s comparative


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
I' ■ 1 ;'■! f'. : V," '
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
excellence was not more vociferously recognised.
Then it dawned upon them that she was an
American, who didn’t appeal to the national pre-
judices of the leading enthusiasts in the audience.
Marie Hall—there’s a lot of Hall about
these paragraphs—makes her first appearance on
June 1. Marie is briefly described by the Taits as
“the Magician of the Violin,” whilst the
managerial references to her playing are worded
w the most musical language imaginable.
* * * #
The Opera House added King and Benson
to its programme last Saturday, and the further
addition of the Svengalis is promised for next
Saturday. Re these “ telepathic ” strangers, The
Bulletin has already taken some amazing allega-
tions for gospel. Therefore, if they do not duly
amaze in accordance with the allegation this
journal will adopt an injured tone on the subject.
** * *
Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald’s circus company
arrived at Fremantle last week, but the manager-
ess was not with it. She was left behind at
Colombo, too sick to continue the voyage. An
Australian who saw the circus in India states
that Mrs. Tom has picked a strong company, and
should do very well in this country.
*■ * * *
Cup week in Adelaide has seen Miss
Palotta and co. frivolling at the Royal (a filly
named Palotta won a race at Morphettville too).
Two plays were crowded into the one week. ‘ ‘ Hop-
kinson” is “The Walls of Jericho” on lighter
lines. There is no one good in London, saith the
prophet of these Jeremiads ; no, not one, saith
the family solicitor. The author is to be praised
for the pluck with which he has made his bounder
bound to the end, instead of playing fairy god-
father to everybody, as is the habit of bounders in
usual last acts of drama. “The New Clown” is
a problem play on “ Charley’s Aunt ” principles ;
put a small humorous person into an un-
usual setting, and see what will happen.
Hugh Ward is less small than the general type
of exponent—Penley, Grrossmith, Thornton—but
not less funny. There has been a whole team of
clowns (Pierrots, they call themselves) at the
Town Hall, but cheirsis clowning of the drawing-
room order. However, the imminent arrival of
the opera—on a Monday evening, of all uncanny
times—overshadows everything else, and Adelaide
is shaken, so to speak, by the tread of a reported
17-stone Lohengrin on its very doorstep.
“THE VALRYRIE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sat me—that’s the German form—
In the amphitheatral bulge,
Just over Slap, and all his myrmidons,
Fifty in number.
Men of chortle and of rootle-tootle,
Of rasp and twitter, brassy blare,
Of tweet-tweet, and of hurly-thrumbo—
Men who puff, like rage of Boreas,
At trombone and the mystic horn.
Some lay white handkerchief on shoulder
And apply the suasive fiddle.
Some—but, in short, ’twas a band.
Muzzy’s command, “ Lights down for overture,"
Is faithfully obeyed. The great Slap, crawls
Through aperture beneath the stage,
And there is a mighty accolade
From ghosts that fill dress circle,
Stalls, and heaped-up amphitheatre.
Whether of bald heads or faces matters not—
All flesh is ghost
Mith th electrics downed in playhouse.
Silence ! Ye two thousand ghosts
(Shadows we are and shadows we pursue)
For the worship of St. Wagner.
Two taps from Slap, and he is in it !
Behold how rapt his face
In reflection from the illuminant music.
He seems to have four eyes ;
His eyes and hands embrace the fifty.
Then he lays a characteristic finger on his nose.
Go! By thunder, they are off !
Xot with more sweep go the Cup horses
When the ropy starting gate flies up
Than starts this band,
With the prize storm of “ Vaachner I"
Each bandsman of the Fifty
.Must now be multiplied by fifty
To the dazed imagination of the ghosts.
Suppose that Gulliver in Brobdignag
Had been assailed by mosquitoes
As big as cows, such would be their buzz
Mingled with a circular saw at work
In diameter of Dandenong’s highest stringy hark,
Reputed to be five hundred feet,
According to veracious Baron Mueller.
Wagner says, “ This is a storm.”
I thought it was Gehenna.
A thousand bookies on the Flemington Hill,
Whose barking sounds far off like that of dogs,
Would not be in it.
To applaud would be impertinence ;
Besides, Wagner always takes away your breath.
The green plush curtain, with its golden lyre,
Rustles and shrivels up
Sam pause in the music.
Before us is .a sort of wool-shed
Dwelling of the Gotterdammerung times ;
A fat man garbed in skins of goats
Rushes through a big barn-door
And flops upon an antediluvian sofa.
When you’re told what the orchestration means
It explains all—rather roundabout.
But it hurdy-gurdies on,
Like stringing Frankfort sausages
By the million.
Fatty and Sara Anderson
Mingle fluty notes for half-an-hour.
The barn-door opens and shows Hubby.
Only understand the Leit-Motifs
And you’ll perceive the sense of nonsense,
Fatty pulls a sword out of a tree
And hooks it like a Lothario lodger
With the spouse.
Twenty-five minutes interval for lager.
Up goes the green baize, or rather velvet.
Coleman, Upward, and the other painters
Show you what Walhalla’s like—
Sot the Gippsland one, but that
Where Jupiter Wotan rules—
A rocky place with lots of stones,
Moulded like huge kidney-beans ;
But when Wotan kicks one
It has the celestial lightness of a pillow.
Wotan and his pet. Amazon or Valkyre,
OrWalkure, masculine Brunhilde,
Are great on helmets, structures three feet high,
With feathers like the Squaw Man’s Indian Chief.
Then there’s Wotan’s wife, Queen Frieka,
Riding in a chariot drawn by sheep.
Music ! Music by the furlong ;
Rot one instant’s pause for Herr Slapotfski,
Who wears out three flannel shirts per night—
One for each act,
Fierce Brunhilde never heard of Love.
I’d not like her to hear while I was by.
She comes on with a livery-stable horse,
The most amiable that e’er you saw,
And yet it carries her in flight right through the clouds.
Sara Anderson asleep—the Fat Man watching.
Behold how Brunhilde learns of Love !
Like another Eve she falls
At mere sight of the apple.
For this must Wotan then degrade her
From Am zon to Woman.
He stands at top of the back scene,
Between them lots of little fires.
They hem her till a hero comes
In the next opera, which won’t be seen
Till 1908, and maybe not then.
Meanwhile the shocked Valkyrie Amazons—
Eight of them, all Melbourne girls—
Shout “ Hu, lu ! Ho, la ! Whroo ! whroo ! ”
In Wagnerian screams and shrieks.
How for the Ride of the Valkyries !
Slapoffski pegs in like
The eight Amazons, or something like them,
Gallop on bareback horses through the clouds.
And these things hustle
From seven till eleven-thirty.
no.
THEORBO.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Lucifer ” : I do adore mummer Kingston. He reminds
me of my barber. Every time I observe him my eyes are
drawn irresistibly' to his crown, and the tiny, carefully-
parted ravines of curls. I fancy that he must put his
locks in curl-papers before bed-time, and oil them
religiously with the sun. But he does seem so unfor-
tunate in his female partners. For instance, Tittell
Brune is a mite in comparison, and, in an embrace, there
is precious little Tittell. But I have seen an embrace
where there was mighty little Kingston. I refer to
“ Fedora,” played here some years ago by the voluminous
Nance O’Neil. Kingston was male lead. The lovely
mountain of flesh cast herself at him many times to em-
brace him. But she didn’t. She enveloped him, leaving
a little bit of his boot showing to the observer. It would
be only fair to Kingston to pit him against a heroine who
stands 5.7, and weighs about 10.3.
“Blister” : Ada Fraud’s conversion seems like a bit of
stage mechanism. “Presently I became aware of a
dazzling white light, which grew larger and larger as it
approached me, and then all at once it unfolded, and
there in the centre was the blessed figure of the Saviour.”
That yarn is a relic of old dramatic days; then
also the dazzling light used to approach and grow larger
and unfold, and in the midst of it was George Rignold
declaring his innocence and denying all knowledge of the
document which the base miscreant had put in his pocket.
At Ballarat, Ada Ward, the preacher actress, had a
dolorous attack of self-commiseration, and pictured
manager J. C. Williamson and parson E. S. Hughes as
miscreants who had attacked her —a poor, long-suffering
woman—and grievously manhandled her in a servile
press. Ada shed tears over her wrongs, and then be-
stirred herself. She raked J.C.W. with a hot fire of vitu-
peration. She started on the Rev. Hughes, whom she
accused of beguiling youths into the champagne habit,
and of many other things. “Heis a self-conceited fop,”
cried the poor, sorely-tried lady. “He spends hours
before the mirror, tittivating himself before going into the
pulpit. Thank God for making me humble and real.
These are nice men to attack a defenceless woman.” Tim
Bulletin recalls the case of the other woman who was
torn off her prostrate husband after she had almost slain
him with a mangle-roller. “ That’ll teach l.iin to pull faces
at a poor, weak woman ! ” said the indignant wife.
In Ballarat (Vic.) they got large doses of Ada Ward, and
the medicine did not agree with even the Methodists
who brought her there. The voluble Ada is too much
of a business woman for the local saints. She stipulated
that she was to get all the collections, without having to
pay any of the expenses, and the Methodies agreed, lest the
Salv’army should rush in, after all, and take away their star.
But after a while Ada engaged the biggest hall in Bal-
larat on her own account, and advertised her willingness to
tell the awful story of her theatrical past at a bob a time.
She raked in the shekels, but that isn’t the trouble ; the
Ballarat Methodists—most of them Cornish—have a feel-
ing that they have been used and thrown over. Miss
Faded Ward evidently finds lecturing easier and more
profitable than battling for stage jobs. Anyhow, Bal-
larat Wesleyans reckon that whether she is sincere or not
(they still admit the “ whether ”), she is too keen for
them, and her end was more welcome than her beginning.
If an actress cannot be a Christian, she can at least be
an evangelist. But if an actress becomes an evangelist,
should she undye her hair ?
Some facts about the late J. A. Delany. His early
boyhood was spent in Newcastle (N.S. W.), and, during his
teens, he came to Sydney, where his instructor, VV. J.
Oordner, who was also choirmaster at St. Mary’s, reported
him as a musical genius. At the age of 14 he was scoring
for orchestras. He composed a large quantity of religious
music, including two Masses ; and, curiously enough, the
first Mass he composed was the last he conducted. On the
morning of his death, while in the delirium of pneu-
monia, he tried to get out of bed, protesting that he
must go to St. Mary’s that evening. And he did, but it
was his dead body they took down to the g reat Gothic
cathedral. Mr. Delany was a widower, and leaves two
daughters, one of whom is at present in England. His
range of instruments included the grand organ, piano,
violin and viola. A few months ago he was presented
with an illuminated address to mark his leadership of the
choir for 25 years. He was a musical enthusiast as well
as a genius, and kept himself absolutely poor through
helping aspirants over the difficulties that usually beset
the beginning of a musical career.
THE LATE J. A. DELANEY.
“ J.A.C.” : By the death of J. A. Delany, on Saturday
last, music in Australia has sustained a great loss. It is
not too much to say that his death is a loss to music all
the world over. Although born in London, he was
essentially an Australian musician ; all he knew of music,
and few have ever known more, he learned in this
country. He came to Australia with his parents when
quite a child, and passed his useful life here. His father,
J. D. Delany, was a journalist who was associated with
Henry Parkes in the founding of the Empire. He studied
music principally with VV. J. Cordner. It is no disparage-
ment of other Australian musicians to say that he stood on
the apex; he was a genius, and his talent would have made a
way for him anywhere on earth. As an executant, violinist,
pianist and organist, as a composer and conductor he was
equally at home. I have seen him score music as quickly
as another man would write a letter. His production of
Dr. Elgar’s “ Dream of Gerontius,” in Sydney, close on
four years ago, was a work of monumental labor and
efficiency. liis compositions would have been creditable
to even the classic composers. He was for a long time
conductor of Sydney Liedertafel, and for about a quarter
of a century organist and choirmaster at St. Mary’s
Cathedral. It is now 27 years since we first met and
travelled together with Simonsen’s Opera Cos., and from
that time we maintained an unbroken friendship. He
was one of the most generous, honest, and, withal,
humorous of men.
“ S.S.” : From the view-point of the person who is not
capable of being thrown into ecstasies by the magnificence
of Wagner’s wind, thunder, lightning, and atmospheric
effects as produced by the augmented orchestra, “The
Valkyrie” is the most trying Wagnerian opera j'et pro-
duced in Australia. On my night of tribulation the
performance began at 7 o’clock, and was carried on till
about 11.20, and for nearly the whole of that time two
people were singing at each other. On occasions their
dialogues of song threatened to be interminable. The
singing may have been very fine, but the thing, regarded
from the dramatic side, is absurd. Even the attempts at
stirring - “business” in Act 111., with the war maidens
ambling over the clouds on their steeds, and the imprison-
ment of a lady in a mountain of fire, if put forward
as attractions in a Christmas pantomime, would be re-
garded as painfully insufficient, and would provoke the
scoffs of the gods. Yet these things are dwelt upon with
enthusiastic rapture by the daily critics. Even a minor
spectacular sensation is something- after four hours of
solid, wild, whirling Wagner.
“A.L.”: Re Venusberg music in “Tannhauser.” I
think it would be more correct to say that prior to a cer-
tain event in Wagner’s life he had no genius for writing
amorous music. That event was his meeting with
Matthilde Wesendonck, and its outcome was the music
of “ Tristan und Isolde,” and the very amorous strains of
the fi.st act of “ Die Walkiire.” In the early ’ forties,
when “Tannhauser” was written, the first Mrs. Wagner
was making Mr. Richard’s life a burden to him, and the
peculiarities of the love music in the earlier operas may
be put down to the fact th it he had quite forgotten what
love was like, and therefore couldn’t very well describe
it. Personally, I wish Mr. Musg'rove had bronyht
“ Tristan ” out here. It is easily the finest of Wagner’s
works, while the “ Meistersinger ” comes second. Both
these operas are broadly human, and don’t deal in the
supernatural.
“Melb.”: “The Valkyrie” churned up music before
me for 4J hours, allowing time for drinks for the blow-
hards in the orchestra. This preciosity is only one of
four acts on the same theme, and the whole “ Ring of
the Nibelunger” requires as much time for its perform-
ance as is occupied on the run from Sydney to Melbourne.
Still it is beaten, one way, by the historic drama one sees
at a Canton theatre. There, after much tom-tomming,
gonging, shoutingand fighting, and after imitation women
have shaken long black chevelures up and down in agony
for three hours. Manager Hung Fat explains that it is
only One-Eightieth part of the play, which goes on day
and night for six weeks. Some Brahmin Wagner called
Gollah Chunder will yet tackle his “Gotterdam-
merung”—this is not swear, but “Twilight of the
Gods.” However, descending to this little opera
of “The Valkyrie.” The overture is performed by
a million buzzing mosquitoes, to the accompani-
ment of 13 circular saws at work in the karri forest.
The story is too ridiculous to describe. The orchestra
does nearly all the acting. Musgrove’s Teutons and
An important proof of the value of spraying for
clearing ground of woeds appears in the Daily Telegraph,
May 8th, 1907. Everyone should have a “ Tyree, Spray,”
for the above purpose, and for painting, white-washing,
disinfecting, fruit growing, etc. “The following- letter
has been addressed by the Town Clerk, Bowen (Q.), to the
Manager of the Oxford Downs Station, Nebo ‘ In reply
to your inquiry as to the method followed by this council
in eradicating prickly pear, I have to inform vou that a
mixture of equal quantities of arsenic and caustic soda
was used by making them into a solution, using the heat
created by the caustic to get them to unite, or hy boiling
them together. The solution can then he reduced.by
adding sea water or salt and water, and if used fairly
strong by spraying on the plants, which should be first
bruised with a long-handed shovel or billhook, it will kill
them within a few days. Unless there is any hurry it is
much more economical to use the solution fairly weak, as
the same quantity will cover more ground, and will be as
effective, only taking a longer time to render the plants
nt for burning*. After they have been burned off, and
rain has fallen, it is advisable to go over the ground and
spray any small shoots which may have escaped the first
dose. About 100 allotments and a number of streets and
reserves have been effectually cleared of prickly pear at a
cos u of about £50.’ Send for printed matter. Tyree
Limited, 314 George-street, Sydney, tUS-W.”’
Teutonias can act, but they don’t this time. Wagnef
seems to have said : “You must not distract attention
from the incessant orchestration.” The performers
stand still, while the music tells you what is going on in
their minds. All is statuesque and other-worldly.
Tenor Studemund is an indescribably eccentric, big fat
fellow, who sings like a flute. Clad in skins, he is like a
walking lager barrel. He mostly keeps both arms
extended, and expresses emotion by rowing a boat. Mrs.
Heinze has a helmet, with white plumes and, la the Indian
chief in “ The Squaw Man,” and they are about half as
high as she is, furnishing a Minerva that appals. The
ride of the Valkyries is of Amazons astride on bare-back
horses, rushing through the clouds. It was terrifically
done at the Paris Opera.
Miss Heinze, the Brunhilde of “ Die Walkure,” bad an
exciting experience, the first night in Melbourne. At the
climax of a great scene she rushes off among the rocks,
leading her winged charger in an impetuous departure.
The charg'er did nor. fill the bill in appearance in any case,
and when Miss Heinze brandished her spear the effect
was too much for the gee-gee, which tossed its head,
broke loose, and knocked Brunhilde’s imposing helmet
off. Brunhilde lost her head as well as her head-gear, and
rushed off the stage in a panic, leaving an unbridled
horse to wreak vengeance on the scenery and to tread on
the stage-fainting Sara Anderson. It was interesting to
see the awesome Brunhilde, when she had recovered her
equilibrium and hurriedly readjusted her back hair, look
shyly out from her place of rocky vantage to see if her
horse had eaten anybody, and then take her courage in
both hands and scoot back to recapture her neddy—just
like a good Australian countrv girl rounding up her
mount.
“Adelaide”: One pities some of you other theatre-
goers for not getting the full flavor out of “Mrs. Gor-
ringe’s Necklace.” In Adelaide we had Miss Beatrice
Day as Mrs. Gorringe, and Mrs. Brough as her unwilling
hostess, and the way the two played up to each other
was something not to be excelled. How this co. does
chop its parts about! I see that in Sydney Miss Gordon
Lee is heroine in “ What Would a Gentleman Do? ” Miss
Beatrice Day is the slangy female, and Miss Major the
comic aunt. Well, we saw Mrs. Brough as the aunt, Miss
Temple as the slangy one, and Miss Day as the gentle
heroine.
The visit of the Besses o’ the Barn Band to Maoriland
has had an influence for good upon the various noises
that arise from the gale-swept islands. The Salv’army
bandsmen attended the concerts in dense numbers, and
were astounded to find that blare was not music, and that
a cornet could be played without a red, apoplectic face,
with an almost-burst expression, looking like a full moon
behind it. The local band at the wayside townlets,
which w T as angered because the fat and comfortable
Besses would not march behind it from the railway
station, listened also, and was impressed. Result is a
stilly atmosphere, no longer torn asunder by the madden-
ing blasts of the first trombone, and unshattered by the
loud reverberation of the big drum. Pianissimo is the
ruling key, and the disordered nerves of the inhabitants
are recovering from a long course of brazen debauchery.
Melbourne Herald reprints from London Chronicle a
yarn of Clive Darrill, “an Australian giant, Bft. Bin.
high, dating from Wagga Wagga, who fell in love with
Miss Mariedi, the Tyrolean giantess, appearing at a
theatre in Vienna.” The lady, whose height is not
stated, would not accept his love, so, during the perform-
ance, he proposed to her from the stalls. The audience
was with him, but he had to follow her about for a long
time before she consented. “ Mr. Darrill has left two
sisters in Australia who are each 7ft. 6in. in height. His
father was one of the tallest men in Australia, standing
Bft. 3in.” But the yarn is taller than all of ’em.
According to New York World, per cable, the ever-
green Ellen Terry makes another bid for connubial feli-
city with a member of her American touring co. The
husband is described as 32. Ellen is 59. This is her
third matrimonial venture. Her first essay, made when
she was about 18, was with artist G. F. Watts, then a
man of 40. The Ellen Terry temperament wouldn’t mix
with the Watts asceticism, however, and they soon
parted. Later, the R.A. got his divorce. Then she
married E. A. Wardell, whose chief title to fame lay in
that episode. This writer is hazy as to whether he was
mortally, or only judicially, mislaid. Now she reverses
her first experiment by marrying somebody 27 years her
junior. Perhaps Ellen pathetically recognises that old
shoulders are poor support for some of this world’s loads.
The other morning, when Bland Holt drove up to the
stage door of Melbourne Royal, he was surprised by the
apparition of Detective Christie and an assistant seizer.
Christie had made a capture of illicit opium at a Chow
store adjoining the theatre, and, “from information
received,” he was lying in wait for some more of the
smuggled goods to be brought along by a man in a buggy.
An approaching buggy was duly signalled, and as soon as
it was brought to a standstill Christie and his mate
rushed from their hiding place in order to raid the
vehicle. The historic voice of Bland Holt notified them
of their error. “If you’re looking for the rug, you’re too
late,” said Bland. “ Somebody stole it yesterday.”
Ernest Lester, the melodrama-hero actor whom Geacli
has imported for the leading billet in “ Human
Hearts,” has visited Australia in the spirit before
he arrived here in the flesh, on his way to Maori-
land the other week. Lester wrote “ Riding to Win,”
and a revival of that Blandoltinn success will be
happening at Melbourne Royal a week or two hence,
what time its author is starring in “Human Hearts” at
Wellington or thereabouts.
Carreno rejoices in a name which the printers persist-
ently refuse to spell with the Spanish “ N ” ; so Mr. Benno
Scherek has resorted to the expedient of telling the
public in his advertisements how to pronounce it, thus:
“Car-rain-yo.”
MESSRS. LENNIE AND WARREN,
Transcontinental Cyclists.
“ G.W.M.” in last Bulletin sums up the
“ Abo.” horse-sense controversy by pointing out
that there are different brands of horses. Also,
there are different brands of whisky. The right
one, D.C.L., will help a man out when mentally
bushed, while other brands may plunge him
deeper into the wilderness of his confusion. Yes,
D.C.L. is the whisky for helping a man to
make the most of his horse sense, intuitional and
otherwise.*
The N.S.W. Deform party seems driven
to fall back on a whole herd of old party hacks to
carry its banner at the approaching election.
Pumpkin Smith and Lonsdale are threatened as
two metropolitan candidates, while someone has
unearthed Varney Parkes for another seat.
It was poor, old, discredited Yes-No, the
Bogey Man of the last Federal elections, that
killed the proposed N.S.W. coalition. Car-
ruthers said, one night, that “the political party
to which he belonged had associated itself with a
party over which Mr. Reid was leader.” Next
day, when the Waddellers met, a majority of
them said that they might swallow Oarruthers
alone, but to swallow Carruthers and Reid at one
gulp was more than even a politician’s stomach
could stand. So by 7 to 4 the proposed coalition
was declared off. and Waddell and a few of his
followers drift across the floor as private rene-
gades.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is pleasant
to take. Children like it. For sale everywhere,*
A MIDNIGHT TRAGEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not care, for Care is dead,
We drowned Her late last night—
Yet I am haunted by a dread
The deed may come to light.
And I, grown used to living high,
Shall high and kicking nothing die.
I met some friends—or they met me,
I know not which, or who
Those friends of mine might chance to be,
But they were comrades true ;
And one remarked—a gloomy beast—
“ We’ll drown dull Care to-night, at least! ”
This same remark he often made
In ringing voice and clear,
Each time we boomed the liquor trade
By drinking draughts of beer,
Or any drink on which we fixed—
I and my drinks were somewhat mixed.
Yet Care still seemed with us to flit;
That melancholy chap
Seemed wed to Her—when he did sit,
She sat upon his lap ;
And when the last pub shut we found,
Quoth we : “ This dull Care must be drowned ! ”
We took Her with us to the Quay,
Where, like the slough of sin,
The waters glittered eerily,
And there we plunged Her in.
We caught her roughly by the hair,
And with a splash we drowned dull Care !
I do not know what happened then—
How I got home, or where
I parted with my fellow men ;
But still that splash I hear,
And, mindful of my country’s laws,
I wonder, dumbly, who it was !
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Deafness Official Tests
THE Official Investigations of the Deaf are well described
in the “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of the inner ear ;
the Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c., &c. ’
and how to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
The Wkm,-Known and'Higiily-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
op 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE” 00., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W,
Here’s a Camera for you.
cz
The No. 3 Centura
For Daylight Roll Films or Glass Plates. Size of
Pictures, x3| (J-Plate).
PRICE - - 925. 6d.
THIS Camera is au ideal one for Travellers, Tourists, or Ladies.
It folds up compactly, and can be carried in the overcoat
pocket. It has every improvement and takes clear, sharp photos.
The Lens is a BECK Rapid Symmetrical, and exceedingly rapid.
Between-lens Shutter for Time and Instant’s work, and special panel
for dark slides. Rack and Pinion movement for focussing, Spirit
Level, View Finder, Tripod Sockets, &c., &c. We strongly recom-
mend this model Camera for all-round work. The postage in
N.S.W, is Is. 3d. Interstate and N.Z., 2s. 2d.
EXTRAS. —Focussing Screen 2s. 6d., Dark Slides 2s. 6d. each.
Leather Case, if required, Bs. 6d.
Everything necessary in PHOTO SUPPLIES stocked by us.
Plates, Papers, Chemicals, Cameras of all Best Styles ; Cinemato-
graphs, Lanterns, Cinematograph Films (new subjects) &c., &c.
HARRINGTON & GO. LTD.
HEAD WAREHOUSE, 386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH : 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE BESETTING SIN.
‘You must let me introduce you to my husband.
I’m sure you’d like him.”
“I don't think so. You see, I can never forgive
a man for having a pretty wife.”
Certain Australian bush marriages, in
which the bride’s only dower is her wonderful
rabbit-skinning capacity, make one remember
that beauty is only skinned heap.
Goulburn policemen are not the only-
members of the N.S.W. force who are wearing
out the human thinking engine over rival judicial
instructions as to whether suspected persons, be-
fore being questioned, should or
should not be cautioned that their
words may be used against them.
Justice Cohen says they should;
Justice Simpson says they
shouldn’t; and so on round
the major and minor
Benches. An inspector of
police in a Sydney case, the
other day, told the Court
lie had not cautioned the
prisoner, and that in a
career of many years he
had never cautioned
any prisoner; and a
day or two later
another officer said
he never ques-
tioned a suspect-
ed person with-
out first cau-
tioning him.
It seems to
be all a
matter of
habit.
A HIDDEN SORROW.
“Mental troubles are the worsht of orl troubles
Everything else can be fought against, but
when a mans minds un-b-bab-battanshed,
then L-L-Lug-Lordhelpem. Letshavadrink!”
Justice Chubb opened the Circuit Court
at Cairns, the liveliest town in North Queensland,
the other day, and this was the start of the list
he read :
A Kanaka, indecent assault.
Billy Martin, colored man, horse-stealing’.
Neils Magnus Neilson, st ealing letters.
“Jack,” aborigine, wilful murder.
A Hindoo, grievous bodily harm.
At that stage his Honor adjourned, with grateful
thoughts, no doubt, concerning the great things
that Philp and his old discolored-labor party had
done for a white Australia.
* * * *
“ L.E.” : How and why does Sydney pro-
duce its painful type of swell young men ? Met a
typical specimen at a King-street fried
fish emporium. He was toying with an
oyster. He wasn’t there to eat, but to
edify. No vulgar chip-chewer he, but
some article of vertu —a street decoration,
an art poster. His coat had a slit up the
back. His collar rose high like a white-
washed rampart. His striped pants turned
up to display blue silk socks with clocks.
His shoes had broad silk laces tied in
fancy bows. Retiring, he dropped a coin
languidly on the counter, not because he
liked the job, but out of graceful con-
sideration for the pleasure of others—
picked up a toothpick and the change,
donned his reindeer gloves, tilted his
chapeau at the correct aesthetic angle,
and then sauntered out of the A 1 Mussel
Saloon with the Willie Kelly crawl
stroke. Harbor Harold quite outclasses
the Melbourne mashers of Puppydog
Corner. Most of him seems to be im-
ported. He is no plain Australian, but
the product of the centuries. He is very
English in parts, with spots of Yankee,
striped with French, mottled with High
German, freckled with Dago—his drab
background of Woolloomooloo relieved
with gaudy patches of the George-street
Orient. Is the elegant creature due to
an ancient schooling in the blessings of
imported goods? Is it the influence of
Joseph Carruthers? Have the streets
affected his cerebellum—those streets so
narrow and crooked ? Is it that he goes
down to the Harbor in ferry boats and
studies the foreign sailors? Is anything
on God’s green earth responsible for him ?
Anyway, he is. There he poses like the
hero of a cigarette-card, and you can tell
the time from his loud-chiming art socks.
* * * •
Sydney University has had £750,000
in cash, and about the same value in land,
from the State since its foundation ; and
one of the chief results that it forces on
public notice is the labored and childish goatish-
ness of Commemoration Day.
* * *
A citizen in a Maoriland Prohibition dis-
trict is said to have received a post-card to this
effect from the local station master:—
Pear Sir,—Please send for your case of books at once
It is leaking.
Probably an old joke, but it will serve again.
* * * »
A Victorian birth notice (9/5/’07) :—
MARTIN.—On the 25th April, at Mrs. Bagnell’s
private hospital, Benalla, the wife of Christopher
Martin, “ Spring-bank,” Mokoan—a daughter.
MARTIN.—On the 2nd May, at Mrs. Bagnell’s private
hospital, Benalla, the wife of Hugh Martin,
“ Dalkeith,” Burtgeet—a daughter.
MARTIN.—On the 4th April, at Mrs. Bagnell’s private
Hospital, Benalla, the wife of Janies Martin,
“ Woodlawn,” Bungeet—a daughter.
The ladies are married to three brothers, and
within a month they shoved the birth-rate along
with a daughter apiece, all at Mrs. Bagnell’s
hospital. Mrs. Bagnell seems to be doing fairly
well.
* * * *
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
analysed by chemists. It contains no poison.
For sale everywhere, Is. Gd.*
“Snell” : Bank clerks in Melbourne are
lifting up their voices again in beinoanment of
their unhappy lot. They alone have not pro-
gressed with the progress of the State. “Our
unrivalled prosperity” has not enabled the poor
tellers and the forlorn, faded, and prematurely
bald clerks, who wallow in other people’s gold in
the big, financial institutions, to get over their
chronic impecuniosity. The bankers’
myrmidons are now making a sad effort
to better their position by writing
dolorous letters to the daily papers,
and by making an abject appeal to
other people to do something—they
don’t know exactly what. My reply,
as one of
many ad-
dressed,
is: “Hoe
your
own row!
Come
out of
your
sicklya t-
mosphere
of shabby
gentility,
and fight
for your own
hand as other
workers have
done. Don’t think
because you paw tons
of money above-ground
that you’re two storeys
and an attic above the
miner who paws the raw
material down below,
and that the methods
li e employed to assert
himself are not good
enough to raise you
into a position of de-
cent and honor-
able independ-
ence.” Other
workers have
succeeded in
vastly improving
their positions
with the aid of
unions, but the
bank clerks have
despised such me-
thods, or else have
lacked the courage to
employ them. The result is that while the
workers are now proudly parading their banners,
the bank clerks are parading their sore toe.
* * * *
When the Federal Navigation Bill
Commission was sitting, last year, at New-
castle (N.S.W.), it shed such publicity on
the crimping evil that the State Govern-
ment was shamed into a pretence of action.
Certain inefficient regulations are now in force
which tend to restrict the unlawful supplying of
seamen to outward-bound ships, and the imme-
diate result is that the trade of the port is almost
at a standstill, owing to the difficulty vessels have
in obtaining crews. The harbor at Newcastle is
crowded with ships which are ready for sea, but
cannot leave the cranes for want of men, and the
loading of other ships is therefore interfered with.
The ship-masters say that there are as many men
available in Newcastle as usual. The ships
arrived fully manned, and the sailors must be
somewhere. But the boarding-house-masters—
the crimpers—who seem to be quite above the
inefficient State law, refuse to supply men unless
at a very high rate, and the port is held up in
consequence. This mainly applies to British
ships. The action of the crimpers is a protest
against the new regulations, which aim at ending,
or at least limiting, the crimping evil; and these
regulations do not apply to foreign ships, which
sign their crews on before the local consul,
instead of before the shipping-master. So the
non-British vessel gets away promptly. It seems
as if the sailor is just as much in pawn as he used
to be before the State Government took a hand—
a very poor hand—in the matter.
* « * *
Some of the original agitators against
Wren’s Tote are now reproving the audacity of
Judkins in claiming to have been the Early
Father, or Field-Marshal, of the anti-gambling
crusade in Melbourne. It is pointed out that
Collingwood had a Public Morals League
long before Judkins started to advertise
himself. The Leaguers now ask to be duly
recorded as “a noble band of workers,” who
built the platform whereon their little Ker-
ristian brother subsequently postured in
the limelight with a borrowed halo on his brow.
* * • <
“Kiss the Book” is still the trouble of
Australian courts, and will be till the disease-
breeding old circumstance is suppressed. In
France, no volume is used ; the witness raises a
hand and says, “ Je le jure.” It Spain, there is
no kissing of the Book ; the witness places a hand
on the Gospels and says “ Si juro.” And it is the
same, or thereabouts, in all European countries,
except Britain. This habit of hugging the volume
is an unclean and useless custom taken over from
England—useless because numbers of people who
embrace the tome don’t even know what the tome
is, and numbers of others disregard its authority.
An English magistrate records that 50 per cent,
of the persons who kissed the Book before him
didn’t know what the Book was. And hardly
anyone who knocks his face against the publica-
tion is rendered a whit more reliable thereby. It
is a disgusting habit —this licking of the literature.
Another long trial and another disagree-
ment of the jury leave the Crick-Willis case where
it was. Nearly everybody in N.S. W. appears by
this time to have given up all hope that anything
definite will come out of any Crick-Willis trial,
and the case gets obviously weaker as it toddles
along. Some haggard and perceptibly ageing
witnesses, who were fairly sure of things before,
went more or less to pieces this time on cross-
examination. Dates that looked solid at the pre-
vious trial tottered and disappeared feebly round
the corner on further inspection. Things that
were previously confused either remained so or
got worse. Crick took all the legal points
he did before ; he also found new ones and
took them. The legal profession was so struck
with admiration that there is an idea of
presenting the Art Gallery with a large oil-
painting of Crick taking a legal point, the work
to be done by a competent artist. The prosecu-
tion looked older, and Crick looked younger, and
Willis looked about the same age. The judge
looked like a worried man who was afraid that
Crick knew more law than he did ; he may not
have been that way, but he looked it. Peter Close
looked more unsatisfactory than ever. As for the
case itself, grass and other minor forms of vegeta-
tion already begin to appear on its surface, and it
wears all the appearance of something that is
growing very tired of itself and that wishes it had
never made its own acquaintance.
N.S.W. Justice G. B. Simpson is a master
hand at summing up in a fashion at once chatty
and irrelevant. In the Willis-Crick trial he
discoursed for an hour on the dignity that
doth hedge a Judge, and the necessity for
newspapers to speak respectfully of him, and
for Speakers and Presidents of Houses of Parlia-
ment to guard him against attack. A long
disquisition followed on acting-Justices, inspired
by a complaint from Willis that he had, in a
previous prosecution, been tried before an acting-
justice. Incidentally, his Honor read out his
remarks when first taking his seat on the Bench,
viz. , “ I will administer justice in the fear of God
and without the fear of man.” Then his Honor,
after sparring for wind, got another inspiration,
and dealt with gifts and presents to Judges, which
were improper, but not necessarily corrupt or un-
lawful. Harry Levien, “ the Father of the
House,” had once sent him a wild turkey, and he
tasted it and found it delicious. He subsequently,
when the last turkey bone had been stripped bare,
told Mr. Levien that he must not repeat the
present. A solicitor had surprised him in his
chambers smoking a cigar. In all the long years
of their acquaintance that solicitor hadn’t seen him
combusting tobacco before. Later, he received
half-a-dozen choice Havanas from the solicitor,
but promptly returned them. However, in
Hobart, he bumped against the solicitor, and
accepted one cigar from him, for he was then
“ out of his jurisdiction.” And so forth, and so on,
till the foreman of the jury became afflicted with
earache.
* * * *
In Petone (M.L.), pronounced Pet One
by the uncultured stranger, the soul physician of
a local church was distressed recently to find
himself forestalled in the pulpit by a girl who
had been entrusted by the Deity with a message
for the flock. Remonstrances by the parson were
firmly rejected, and the inspired female was only
removed after a severe struggle with her stern
parent. The maiden shriekingly placed the
responsibility of the undelivered message upon
the preacher, and the reverend gentleman offered
up special prayers for the demented one. She
and her message are now in an asylum—another
sorrowful example of the consequences of much
undigested Scripture on a weak mental stomach.
AS IN THE DAYS OF OLD.
Dr. Winning-ton Ingram (Bishop of London) and several
Nonconformist ministers have commenced a crusade
against the exhibition of living statuary in London.
Why not settle the affair by single combat
between the Bishop of London and the modern
Milo?
A Benalla (Vic.) youth who lately pleaded
guilty to an inexplicable act of arson, explained
to the investigating Judge that his outbreak was
due to over-free indulgence in “ Tiger ” —which,
it was explained, is the Victorian name for wine
just out of the press. Judging from its effects,
“tiger” seems as disastrous as the “pinky,”
which has made itself notorious in S. Australia ;
and there is something more appropriate about
the Victorian name, too, “Pinky” isn’t a bit
suggestive of a drink with 97 devils in it.
TWO HYMNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sundry letters have been received by the Premier’s con-
stituents, dated from Aden, from Mrs. Bleasby on behalf
of Mr. Bent, describing some of his experiences en route
to London. To Mr. Hamilton, mayor of Brighton, Mrs.
Bleasbj'writes “ My father desires me to write to you
that he is feeling the heat very much. He has the prickly
heat very badly.” To Mr. Brownfield she notes : “We
commenced to feel the heat shortly after leaving Fre-
mantle, and it has got hotter, until it is terrible. One
gentleman who was going home to get a title has died
and been buried at sea —a very sad affair.”
It was an elephantine mass
Who filled the seas with wrath
When the hot monsoon came out at noon,
And the shadeless sun was forth.
It was a man of Belial
Who daily raved on deck
When the sea of glass and the sky of brass
Rose up to burn his neck.
For oh ! he was a plenteous man !
(The sun was hot as hell) ;
O’er fat and meat, some cubic feet
Had he of cuticle.
The sun had burned his face cerise,
His chest, geranium pink ;
And there were none to make their moan
Or off .: film a drink.
The prickly heat had made him weak
As any ailing girl,
And tired and spent was Thomas Bent—
His hair was out of Keirl!
Courage ! We’ll soon be through it ! Take a pull at
hymn the second.
A gentleman was goin’ ’Ome,
To take bis title in his ’and,
Where Aden’s lime-rocks tear the foam,
He went to join the ’Eavenly band ;
Tho’ Angels may for this be glad,
We must admit it’s very sad.
The gentleman was goin ’Ome,
For to be crowned in Londing town ;
Alas ! he will not further roam,
He’ll ’ave to ’ave a ’Eavenly crown !
But will not Edward VII. be mad ?
’Tis an affair that’s very sad.
A gentleman was goin’ ’Ome,
For Barrownite or C.M.G.,
He’d ’ave been better not to roam,
But stayed in Brighton a J. P.—
This reachin’ after beads is bad—
And that he missed ’era's very sad.
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.


The Hand
The May number of The Lone Hand has come
and gone. Its prompt acceptance by the reading
public was one of the sensations of the book-
selling trade in the Commonwealth.
The time has now come to speak of the June
number. It was said in criticism of the May
number that “ the stories were, on the whole, too
short.” An interesting train of inquiry is sug-
gested by this, as to whether there is a jreal
objection to a story because it is short though
complete, or whether readers were only sur-
prised, expecting the usual “spun-out” story and
getting instead stories in “concentrate” form.
However, the June stories happen to.be longer.
There are seven of them, and the chief authors
are Ethel Turner, Edward Dyson, “G. B.
Lancaster,”and Albert Dorrington; an anonymous
writer opens a sensational series “ The Secrets of
a Prime Minister.”
The special articles of the June number are
particularly interesting. Blamire Young writes
on Fremiet’s “Gorilla and Woman”; “Aqua
Fortis” on Etching (which is illustrated by a re-
markable series of etchings); Sir James Boucaut
on the Arab Horse ; Enid Derham on Lyrics ; and
“ Stargazer ” on “Author and Actor-Manager.”
About the art work and other features we shall
talk next week.
Subscribe now (12s. a year) to your nearest
news-agent or to the office.
TheJo£ie Hnnd
214- George St., Sydney.
They do throw their money about in S.
Australia. Orroroo, a prosperous northern farm-
ing centre, of considerable size as farming centres
go, threw up its hat with the cockspurs in it when
its local champion, W. 0. Addison, was selected
to go to England with the Australian Bisley rifle-
team. It decided, morever, that it must do the
thing well and put up some of the expenses. So
a “ farewell ” to the champion was arranged, and
it was fixed that the golden wealth of Orroroo
should be poured out there. After it had been
poured out accordingly (and nearly half Orroroo
was there to pour) they counted up the wealth—
£2 12s. 6d.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
4r ■ 1
A WINTER SHIRT.
'"THIS is the same style exactly as the immensely popular
summer pattern, but is made of Ceylon Flannel —a
soft, unshrinkable and wonderfully durable winter
material and warm besides. The illus-
tration shows the style of it —you will
probably recognise it by having seen it
much worn last summer. It has the
much-appreciated soft, detachable col-
lar and gauntlet cuffs. Its comfort is
not to be described—you must feel it.
The
Novelty
Shirt.
Let us send you one or two oJE these tine shirts and you
can judge for yourself—you may return hem if you do
not like them, and we will refund the money.
One Price Only—B/6 Fach,
Postage 6d. Extra.
Handsome Designs
- All Sizes.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
Men's & Boys
Outfitters...
300-311 George St., SYDNEY.
“The meeting passed off most success-
fully,” says a press correspondent, reporting the
races at Oloncurry (Q.), where the copper-boom
is. And then he mentions, as a passing incident
of one of the waits between races, that “one of
our prominent townswomen publicly horse-
whipped a man for reasons not stated.” That
shows how customs differ on mining fields. Now,
at Broken Hill, where the lead boom is, the lady
would have spent half-a-crown on an advt. calling
upon the male malefactor to make good his words,
or look out for a summons. Perhaps the differ-
ence between fiery copper and dull lead accounts
for it; the patriotic lady suits her temper to her
district’s metal.
The Melbourne Friendly Societies’ Gardens
on the banks of the Yarra, once among the most
popular of pleasure resorts, are now in a steady
process of decay. A Chinese pagoda, tlje
paint peeling off in flakes, rears itself
totteringly in the centre of the
grounds ; and a band stand and
other buildings stagger in various
parts of the premises, all going
the way of the flesh. Looking at
the grounds from the Temple of
the Winds in the Botanical
Gardens, it suggests “Our
Selection ” which Old Dad has
given up as a bad job. Ad-
jacent is a good cricket or foot-
ball ground surrounded by a
banked asphalt cycling track ;
but cracks, inches wide, are in
the asphalt now, and not even
a ghost bikes there on a
whirling cobweb in the moon-
light. Nowadays the ground is
used only by fifth-rate football
teams or occasionally by a ladies’
cricket club, but the cricket club
looks depressed like one batting in a
cemetery, and the fifth-rate footballers play
feebly and curse with a poor, inefficient curse.
A paper that was playing hide-and-seek
got on to a N.S. Wales coroner’s nerves, the other
day, and some people are probably wondering
now whether the game wasn’t kept up too long.
A few weeks back, four men were killed by the
collapse of a tunnel, which they had just started
for the South Clifton colliery. The paper that
played hide-and-seek was the agreement between
the men and the management. Soon after the
accident happened, a detective called into the office
of the eo. and wanted this agreement, but the
office, after going into another room for a while,
said the paper wasn’t there. Next day the office, re-
inforced by one of the proprietors, was quite sure
that it had never been there, so, of course, the office
couldn’t hand it over. The manager at the mine
said he had it once, but didn’t have it any longer.
Later on it transpired that it had been passed on
to a solicitor ; and when it was tracked that far,
dhe solicitor said it didn’t belong to him and he
couldn’t produce it. At about this stage the
coroner remarked that the solicitor had better get
authority from somebody to produce it pretty
quickly, and the solicitor took the hint. As one
of the contracting miners, who didn’t happen to be
hilled, had already declared that the agreement
provided for timber to be supplied at the tunnel
mouth, and as he swore that he had complained
to the manager that the timber wasn’t there, and
as the Chief Inspector of Collieries said that
the fall was due to the insufficiency of timber,
there is going to be trouble.
* * # #
Australia has its fair share of those most
miserable of human beings—the chronic dyspeptic.
Angier’s Emulsion works wonders in many forms
of dyspepsia. It has cured many obscure cases
that have baffled other treatment. It is soothing,
healing, strengthening and pleasant to take. In
three sizes, of all chemists.*
PUSH SOCIETY .
SCANCY: “ 'Ere, Bill sez I can ’are this darnce wiv yer."
MOLL: “I never promised this darnce to Bill."
SCANCY: “ Now don't you get forkin'. Bill can knock out anyone wot’s in the room."
“ Quandong ” : The Victorian Education
Gazette for April contains a neat piece of the
humor that is departmental, and therefore un-
conscious. Regulation XXIX., re Sloyd Classes
in Country Schools, and Regulation XXX., re
Cookery Classes in Country Schools, are quoted at
full length. Ignorant officialdom, comfortably
salaried and housed artistically, has prescribed in
one regulation : “ If a disused class-room or one of
the rooms of the teacher’s residence is available,
the class may be held therein by permission of the
director,” &c. That refers to Sloyd. In the
other regulation, the same idea is put forward as
a suggested provision for the cookery class. Most
of the Victorian country schools have two 12 x 10
rooms for the residence of the fad-ridden peda-
gogue, and if one is to be given up to cookery and
the other to Sloyd, it will become an even more
difficult problem than ever what to do with the
wife and bairns. Is the teacher to take up his
quarters in the porch, or the dog-kennel, built
through “local effort”? The Victorian peda-
gogue awaits reply from Officer No. 31, Red Tape
Department, in charge of the branch that con-
foundeth confusion.
A BASE INFERENCE.
FAIR ONE: “ I saw you several times at the
reception last night."
UNFAIR ONE: “By Jove! Were you like that
too? ”
After all, the apparent decease of the Col-
lingwood tote seems not to have brought peace
to Melbourne, but a sword. The different fanati-
cal religious packs which bayed and snapped at
John Wren are now on the verge of barking at
one another over the carcase. The Public Morals
League of Collingwood, presided over by the
Baptists of that suburb, annexes the honor; it
alleges that it “found” the enemy, and laid the
other packs on to him. T. 8. B. Woodfull, the
parson who assisted the police (so he says) to
obtain evidence against Wren and Co., claimed
all the power and the glory in the affair as far
back as the Methodist Conference in February.
He was whipper-in of the Methodist pack, it
seems. Willy Judkins, however, sets all the
credit to his own account—witness the ti-tree
crown and the wild whoopings of triumph ever
since. Unfortunately, Thomas Bent is not here
to ponderously assert that his Anti-Gambling Act
did the trick. Another party that has claimed no
glory, so far, is the Salv’army. Strange that it
never came into the fray. Perhaps it grows tired
these times?
* * * *
His eyes were red, his nose was blue,
He couldn’t speak, he’d just say “Tchoo 1"
And everybody round they knew
And pitied him, he had the “ floo,"
At last he gasped “ What shall I do ? "
And swiftly came the answer, too,
For each one cried “Oh fool! procure
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Oure
“ Flinderino ” writes from a boat:—
Sydney Harbor is not the only place where one or two
boat companies try to run the show. A Melbourne com-
bine fancies that the jetties on the eastern side of Port
Phillip were built for its exclusive use, and its aspect of
shocke I astonishment when another boat comes along,
suggests the wild expression in the eye of Saul at the
rising of Samuel’s ghost. All the jetties belong to the
Government, and are open to any ship that likes to
arrive, but that makes no difference. On a recent Sun-
day two excursion steamers left Melbourne for Schnapper
Point (Mornington). The combine’s boat arrived first,
and filled up the only available berth alongside the jetty,
and landed its passengers. When the second steamer, an
outsider, put in an appearance, it found no room to tie
up, and, by the aid of the steam whistle, requested the
combine boat to move up or come out and make room.
But the combine boat was deaf. The outsider cruised
around blowing its whistle for half-an-hour or so, but
without effect. Then it dropped anchor close in, and
with the flag signals asked the combine boat to kindly
allow it the use of the jetty for ten minutes. The
combine boat had lost the code-book, so couldn’t
read the signals. The result was that a boatload of
disappointed excursionists had a compulsory voyage at
anchor, and returned to Melbourne without having
landed anywhere down the bay. The same thing hap-
pened some weeks previously when the water was some-
what rough and made things unpleasant. The local con-
stable acts as harbor master, and has control of the pier,
but when trouble occurs he happens to be on the other
beat or away collecting statistics.
The method adopted by Sydney companies of buying
up the pleasure resorts and wharves to secure a mono-
poly of the holiday traffic is out of the question in Port
Phillip. True, land round the bay is cheap enough and
could easily be turned into picnic grounds, but then
jetties would have to be built, and as there is no great depth
of water anywhere along the shore they would have to be
pretty long jetties. Anyway, the bay excursion traffic is
a very hungry speculation, and hardly worth fighting
for. Half-a-dozen steamers suffice for the regular sum-
mer traffic, while two can manage through the winter.
Some 12 years ago the Howard Smith people bought a
slice of Point Henry, near Geelong, and turned it into a
pleasure resort which was known as Bellarine Gardens.
The old paddle-boat Bellarine (now dead, broken up and
burnt) made daily trips from Geelong to the Gardens, and
the Edina called there. But the venture proved unprofit-
able, and Bellarine Gardens were deserted until just re-
cently, when the Howard Smith co. turned the one-
time pleasure resort into a poultry-farm. There is really
no “ down the harbor ” in Melbourne.
* * * *
In one of the latest text books authorised
by the Education Department of N.S.W.
(General Geography by Hugh Robert Mill,
D.Sc. LL.D.) in a chapter dealing with N.S.W.
we read :
Practical shearers can clip 120 sheep per day, but
working at that rate is so cruel to the animals that
Government has limited the daily work of each man to
90 fleeces. (P. 207.)
Bands of convicts, escaping to the remote regions when
the colony was young, became bushrangers or armed rob-
bers, who plundered defenceless sheep stations and shot
the people. A strong force of mounted police, aided by
the unequalled native trackers, succeeded in putting
down bushranging on a large scale. (P. 207.)
The inference, of course, is that the evil still
exists, though mitigated somewhat.
The small towns (of Australia) are very enterprising ;
they all have hotels, a newspaper, a racecourse, a public
park, and verv often a lunatic asylum. (P. 202.)
“ J.G.,” from about the centre of Vic-
toria :
Re “Pterodactyl’s” complaint of the meanness of the
N.S.W. Education Department, and “John Boy-
aragger’s” comment thereon. I would like to say that
the Victorian Education Department is somewhat
meaner, if possible, than that of the Ma State. The Vic.
Department has a warm welcome for the teacher who is
a good cadger, and thus saves the blessed Department a
few quids. One of the Vic. country schools in my neigh-
borhood roosts lonely in the middle of a big plain, where
the sun in the summer time is nearly hot enough to wekl
iron, so that the school becomes a veritable Gehenna ;
and where, in the winter, the wind blows across the
plains like whiffs off the Antarctic. This schoolhouse
had no provision for sheltering the kiddies, if they came
too early, or at meal times, or after school hours, if the
weather happened to be a bit crook. The pedagogue
who earns his bread and fat hereabouts asked the
Department to erect a shelter shed for the,children
at the cost of a few poun s. He received a reply
to the effect that he should go and canvass the residents
of the district and collect enough to build the shed. The
instructor■in-the-middle-of-the-great-plain tried a few
big, wealthy, and religious cookies, and obtained enough
cash off them to pay for one sheet of iron. He then sat
down, and considered deeply, and swore still more deeply.
Then he decided to chuck the cadging business, and got
up some euchre parties at a bob a time. What a howl
went up from the holy inhabitants at this awful, sinful
practice ! But he persisted in his gamble, and eventually
obtained enough cash to build the shelter-shed, which
was a boon to the kiddies. Then the teacher thought that
the dog-box, hitched on to the side of the schoolhouse,
and described in official correspondence as the “Teacher’s
Residence,” would be improved and made a trifle more
pleasant for his family to live in if a verandah were put up
outside the rabbit hutch. He asked the Department
to put a verandah on the kennel, and when it
had finished being staggered—l believe it staggered right
down Collins-street—it bade him go and collect the re-
quired amount off the residents. But he replied that in
the matter of the shelter shed he had already passed the
hat till it was worn out, and after 255. worth of corres-
pondence he got a verandah worth 275. 6d., and was told
that if he gave any more trouble the Department would
feel tired.
* # *
Statistics are humorous at times, especially
when they are put together by a person with a
keen sense of duty. The current Whitaker says
that last year there were people of 23 religions in
British gaols, also there were 22 atheists, and 26
people without any views at all, and “ the reli-
gious convictions of one prisoner could not be
ascertained, as he was unfortunately suffering
from delirium tremens .” There is a monstrous
conscientiousness about the publication which,
out of 21,580 prisoners, carefully remanded that
solitary object who was too busy running across
the ceiling of his mind in chase of imaginary
beetles to state his views. Yet it might have just
put him down as “ Snakes, 1.”
THE WHITE STANDARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Australia we want to pay decent wages to white-
faced men in their white-faced country. We would
rather the black men kept to their own country, where
they could receive the wages of their country. Dr.
Rentoul, as reported in Argus, 1151’07.
It is all very well for Australia to set up a certain
sentimental standard.—Argus, 30/4/W.
Let him who loves the black man go and see, as we have
seen,
The big buck nigger ruffling with the white !
Let him go gently with a gun, or carver, sleeved and keen,
And let him watch his women well at night;
For then there prowls a pestilential travesty of man,
God’s image—black, or white-and-ebon blent,
Who loves the touch of snowy flesh —and touches, if he
can—
Nor minds the sentiment 1
Let him who wants the nigger go and watch him toiling,
slow,
With one black wage for black and white alike ;
And see, as we have seen, spilt scarlet splashed upon the
snow,
Where white men saw foul wrong, nor failed to strike.
Let him once watch the bloodhound-mob go silent through
the town,
And see stacked pine, for one fell purpose meant,
Where grim white men with tears of rage go white-faced
up and down—
And scorn White sentiment 1
Let,him but think on cursing crowds and waves of flame
that break
On such a sight as comes to one in dreams —
Ofhow the hounded nigger gapes all slobbering at the
stake,
And, as he struggles, shouts, and writhes... and
screams.
Let him go ask those silent men with blood upon their
hands
What deed called forth a deed so violent,
There let him ask what dreadful crime such punishment
demands,
Nor prate of sentiment !
Let him go east and west and see the boundless hate of
man
For GOD in mingled clay—and pity GOD !
Lethim go to and fro and know the race beneath its ban—
In black and brown and tan—the outcast clod
With ashen face, with purple lips and yellow, wolfish eyes 1
To one great end our energies are bent:
To keep our children’s blood untouched 1 And Pat, all
wild, decries
Such trashy sentiment 1
Here is the standard of our race—white women for our
men 1
White children all across our farthest lands ;
The white man’s hand and brain to toil, all time, with
plough or pen
And, white men all, with rifles in their hands !
For this Fat’s citadels of greed for ages have been stormed,
And sweat and tears and endless labor spent
To keep Australia’s children free, blood-pure and
undeformed—
A noble sentiment !
vie.
FRANK HENTY


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & GO.,
64 Pitt Street. SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery,
Steam Waggons,
viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions,
High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s Cr.glkh Pumps. rue! E;
Nicholson & Sons English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rai.’a. Locomotives.
Material and r,li...ng Requisites of every description.
ionomisers.
Tramway
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident Society :
Ordinary Department.
Written
off or
provided
against Added
Total Ex- Depreci- to
Income. Claims. penses. ation. Funds.
1898.. £2,029,674 £1,225,123 £180,750 £57,874 £565,927
1897.. 2,080,566 1,118,915 179,215 31,397 751,039
1898.. 2,152,177 1,223,261 197,977 31,468 699,471
1899.. 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900.. 2,364,216 ; 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901.. 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,669
1902.. 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904.. 2,687,155 1,519,890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,34! 245,242 38,7011
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 f
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 29,8181 Q „ n
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741/ yyu >' 4tl
The income figures—and most of the others—are easily
the largest in the history of this great society. In con-
u.ction with many Australian institutions, the present
i tea is that they do very well if they get back to the
figures they showed before “the boom” burst in the
"arly ’nineties. But so continuous has been the progress of
this society even in the worst times that last year, as
shown above, it had a total income of £2,932,755, while
in 1890 the income amounted to but £1,684,661. So there
has been an increase of 75 per cent, upon the income of
even the boom period.
That, of course, refers to the Ordinary Depart-
ment alone, the Industrial being a sprout thrown off
only during the past two years. This Industrial Depart-
ment is being financed by the Ordinary Department,
from which in two years it has drawn no less than
£18,741. The society publishes only a general balance-
sheet ; therefore, it is impossible to tell from its state-
ments for any one year what the new concern has cost.
Tnere is something wrong with that. Policy-holders are
e titled to have kept before them such information as
will enable them to tell the results of experiments like
this. If the Industrial Department issued its own
balance-sheet—as the Industrial Department does in other
concerns running the two—the advances made by the
Ordinary Department would represent capital ; and the
Ordinary Department would show the amounts as invest-
ments ; or, if it was doubtful about the thing turning
out profitably, it could write the amounts off. The sys
tern at present adopted looks too much like smothering
the record of the cost of the new business.
Rejecting the amount charged to the Ordinary
Department to cover the deficit on the Industrial De-
partment’s operations, the expense rate shows up with
that of recent years like this
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1897 .. £8 12 3 p.c. 1902 .. £8 14 0 p.c.
1898 .. 9 4 0 „ 1903 .. 817 0
1899 .. 919 8 „ 1904 .. 816 7 „
1900 .. 9 0 5 „ 1905 .. 815 6 „
1901 .. 810 0 „ 1906 .. 817 2 „
But the year’s experience is really better than that; for
the proportion of new business' gathered in must be
taken into account, and 1906 was a particularly fruitful
year. Charging renewal premiums with 7 per' cent, of
their total, and consideration for annuities with 3 per
cent., we get £121,645 as the cost of attending to those
partsofthe business. That leaves £138,124 as the cost
of the new business; and for that amount £164,250 of
premium income has been got in, so that this new
business only cost 84 T per cent, of the premiums, as
against just under 89 per cent, in the previous
year, and 91 per cent. 10 years ago. When, a couple of
years ago, the management was bombarding the policy-
holders with reasons why it should be allowed to spread
itself out over South Africa and Britain, it was said that
it was so much more difficult and so much more costly to
get business in Australia now than it used to be. Yet 55
per cent, more new business was done last year than 10
years ago, and, in spite of that large increase, the cost
(.reckoning on the basis adopted) is very nearly 7 per cent,
less. The A.M.P. management has very few things to be
less proud of than the “arguments” with which it car-
ried its point over that extension matter. As to that ex-
tension, by the way, the business is still hung up, pend-
ing Gerald R. Campbell’s appeal to the Privy Council.
The interest-earnings naturally show little
change, though the downward movement is persistent:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1897 ..£4 17 0 per cent. 1902 ..£4 9 2 per cent.
1898 .. 414 10 „ 1903 .. 4 810
1899 .. 411 10 „ 1904 ..4 9 0
1900 ..4 9 7 „ 1905 ..4 9 8 ”
1901 ..4 9 6 „ 1906 ..4 9 7 „
Part of the improvement during the past two vears com-
pared with those immediately behind them was due to
severe writing-down of the depreciation reserve, which
stood at £227,155 in 1904, and is now only £114,987.
Meantime, however, though there have been these appa-
rent losses on or shrinkages in securities, considerable
surpluses have been realised on sales of foreclosed proper-
ties, and these have been added to ordinary income, and
about a corresponding amount has been written off fore-
closed properties on the other side. The amounts thus
written off (and shown in the first table above) are apart
from amounts written off the Depreciation reserve. The
matter of interest earnings is, of course, bound up with
the character of the investments. There has been a
steady increase in the proportion of public securities held
during recent years. This table shows the distribution
of the assets:—
1895. 1905. 1906.
Public Securities .. £602,007 £4,162,327 £4,751,705
Municipal Loans .. 339,489 1,658,228 1,859 490
Mortgages .. .. 7,202,332 9,511,091 9,788,593
Policy Loans .. .. 3,482,805 4,481,438 4,446,736
Foreclosures .. .. 538,454 628,508 604,289
Premises .. .. 371,430 382,191 412,144
Cash, &c 1,176,547 1,020,766 890,356
The proportions (also those for 1904) work out in this
way
1895. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Public Securities .. 2’5 p.c. 17-9 p.c. 19-0 p.c. 20'9 p.c.
Municipal Loans .. 4-4 „ 7’o ~ 7-6 „ 8 - 3 ~
Mortgages .. .. 52-5 „ 45-9 ~ 43-5 ~ 42<) „
Policy Loans .. 25-4 „ 20'8 „ 20'5 „ 19-5 „
Foreclosures .. 3-9 „ 2-5 „ 2-9 „ 2-6
Premises .. .. 27 ~ I‘7 ~ 1-8 ~ I‘B ”
Cash, &c 8-6 „ 4-2 „ 47 ~ 4-0 ”
From the pure insurance point of view, the steady reduc-
tion of policy loans is an excellent feature ; and the rapid
growth of public and municipal assets, while it has meant
lower earnings, also means vastly greater security ; for
these assets are backed by the whole wealth of the
country.
The A.M.P.’s surplus for the year is £765,341,
of which, after making provision for contingencies,
£664,693 will be available ; this and recent results work
out as follows :
1894-1898 .. .. 34 - l p.c. of premiums
1898-1903 .. .. 34-8 ~
1904 357 ~ „
1905 357 „ „
1906 357 „ ~
For the whole life of the society the bonuses average
35'5 per cent.; the present bonuses, therefore, just
exceed the average.
Industrial Department.
Added to Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds. Deficit.
1905 .. £6,123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
1906 .. 18,570 669 23,572 5,671
Total deficit to Dec. 31st, 1906 .. £18,741
The expenses thus for the first year amounted to
<6311 Bs. 7d. per cent, of the total income ; for the past
year £126 18s. Bd. was spent to get every £IOO of pre-
miums in this department. The reduction is large,
but the rate is still appalling ; evidently the existing
organisation, which it was said would be immediately
available for the services of this new' department, has
not counted for much. Quite apart from management,
commissions and agents’ salaries alone have absorbed
£12,917, or over 69 per cent, of the total premiums. If
a radical improvement is not shown within the
next year or so, the question will arise whether,
so far from the existing organisation being a benefit,
it is not an actual handicap; for it is at least
conceivable that the experience gained in and by the
A.M.P. in the ordinary department may actually dis-
qualify it for the entirely dissimilar work of the industrial
department. In any case, the A.M.P. knows now the
difference between working' in a field where its prestige
brought business to it almost automatically, and in a field
where it finds others much better known than itself, and
where practically every line has to be battled for.
* * ■* »
“Fluffy” from Perth: “The A.M.P. is a
society for which I have always had something approach-
ing affection. Thirty years ago I reverently conned the
pages of the annual report. One of our ‘ pictures ’ was a
framed advt. of its classic group, indicating the care the
old institution had for its members. The motto, ‘ Amicus
Certus In Re Incerta,’ was my first Latin. Now notice
comes that the annual meeting is to be held, and I am
reminded that, in the interval of 30 years, a tinge of dis-
appointment somehow mingles with my affection. The
A.M.P. is big, of course. But in becoming so big it does
not seem so great. Perhaps I see it with different eyes,
and it is unchanged. Twenty years ago, when I first took
out a policy, the ‘ mutual ’ idea fascinated me.
Nothing seems more fallacious to-day. The policy-
holders have least say of all. The directors—good,
easy men—solemnly present an annual report written
by the officers. The officers are the beginning 1 and end.
The policy-holders come somewhere in the middle ; but
they are entirely surrounded, I almost wrote circum-
vented, by officers. We are invited to vote. Yes ! And
this year two directors are returned unopposed. There
was a crackling of thorns under the pot 18 months ago
when the London office business was afoot. The officers
were aroused. Bigness means more salaries. The officers
were bound to work for bigness, even for bloatedness. I
had a kind message from a resident secretary to come
and discuss the question of my vote with him. I
thought of American methods of insurance, and smiled on
the wrong side of my mouth. Is it too much to suggest
Reform in the A.M.P. ? The officers will not like change,
the directors will be grieved, and I am afraid the policy-
holders, so scattered, so little used to interfering in their
own business, will be difficult to rouse. But is it not a
farce, to offer the policy-holders the choice of Sydney
citizens for the directorate? I have every respect for
Sydney citizens, but individually they are unknown to
me. ‘ The Hon- A. W. Meeks, M.L.0.,’ and ‘James Burns,
Esq.,’ who are to be re-elected unopposed, are only names
to me. The election of directors for my own State
would be a different matter ; but I get no'chance here.
The local directors are appointed by the head office ; that
is, by the officers. I think I would favor the election of
the chief directors by the local directors, if the local
directors were elected by the policy-holders. The pre-
sent system is absurd. Personally, too, I favor the head
office of the Society being shifted from Sydney. I hear
that the largest number of policies is held in Victoria.
If this were so, it might indicate Melbourne as a suitable
place for the head office. But Adelaide would do as well.
Some change of the sort would lead to new ideas being
introduced at the head of affairs. I repeat that I have a
sincere affection for the society, but 1 know that it is
now a bureaucracy instead of a democracy. lam anxious
to see good officers well paid, but not to'have the officers
in complete control. A reform in the method of appoint-
ing the directorate appears to me to be the best method
of saving the A.M.P. for its members.”
* * * *
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), though it jobbed away its
street-tramway rights, kept its lighting in its own
hands, and the results are good enough to probably make
it wonder how it came to let go the other business. Al-
together it only raised £22,500 for lighting, and, of that
amount, £3OOO wasn’t wanted for the purpose, and was
transferred to another municipal account, leaving £19,500
as the net capital in the business. Yet, after writing
down £26,455 out of profits to cover depreciation, the
works still stand at £45,839. In other words, £72,294
has been spent on works, the amount being raised as
follows:
Capital (loans) .. .. £19,500
Profits 49,025
Sundry creditors .. .. 3,769
Total .. £72,294
Sundry creditors total £9095, but there are stocks and
liquid assets amounting to £5326. The profit shown is
after paying interest. Kalgoorlie therefore has the bene-
fits of an electric-light business which has cost on capital
account over £70,000 ; yet, since it owned the business
itself, and therefore put the profits back into the concern,
instead of paying the n away in dividends, it has to pay
interest on only £19,500. As mentioned just now, de-
preciation provided out of profit amounts to £26,455.
This amount, instead of being represented by a cash re-
serve for the replacement of works, is apparently passed
to the general municipal account, where it is represented
by sun try assets—which isn’t fair to the electric-light-
ing enterprise. The object of making a charge on
revenue to cover depreciation is that there may be the
funds in hand to replace the works when they are worn
out; and if, when the works are worn out and hare
to be replaced, the money isn’t there, and can only be
got by drawing on another account—that is,' by
getting in more capital—then the object of the standing
charge for depreciation is destroyed. Kalgoorlie’s sink-
ing funds, though highly respectable (on a total of
£33,000 borrowed they amount to £11,841), are also
lumped together, and the sinking fund is derived from
“loan rates”; and that means that the sinking fund
contribution isn’t a direct charge on the electric-lighting
department’s revenue. Why a municipality, when it
goes in for municipal trading, can’t make each business
stand on its own bottom, so that it retains its own assets
and reserves, and is charged with everything in the way
of expenditure that has to be provided, isn’t clear. Apart
from that, the Kalgoorlie municipal enterprise shows a
fine record.
■* * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Society (Sydney):—
Bonus
to Added Total
Policy to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Holders. Funds, serves
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
1897.. 15,851 22J p.c. = 5651 3651 6,549 100.472
1898.. 17,647 22f „ ~5720 3720 8,207 108,679
1899.. 17,530 24 ~ ~ 6055 4055 7,420 116,099
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital 103 599
1900.. 17,213 18J „ ~7087 4087 6,039 109’63S
1901.. 19,963 18J „ ~7036 4036 8,891 118,529
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 106 029
1902.. 17,952 16J ~ ~ 8224. 4224 5,504 111 533
1903.. 17,184 16J „ ~8248 4248 4,688 116 221
1904.. 23,313 16J „ ~8290 4290 10,733 126,954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 114 454
1905.. 21,447 14J „ ~9312 4312 7,823 122’277
1906.. 20,403 14| „ ~9262 4262 6,879 129 156
1907.. 21,562 14§ „ „ 9237 4238 8,087 137’243
The dividends are stated approximately. A regular 8 per
cent, is paid—this is called interest, and charged direct
to profit and loss—and the shareholders then further
divide 20 per cent, of the premiums between themselves
and the policyholders. The practice of this office
differs from that of most other Australian fire
insurance offices inasmuch as the latter deduct
the policyholders’ 10 per cent, bonus or rebate,
and show their premiums net. This co. began
originally (1872) with a capital actually paid of £6250.
Gradually, however, by a very careful selection of risks,
and to some extent by moderating the dividends, such
large reserves have been accumulated that the directors
have felt themselves justified in transferring £56,250 to
capital, and another £12,500 is now to be transferred ;
this will raise the paid capital to £75,000, or 15s. per
share, leaving a liability of ss. per share. On the original
paid capital the return is equal to about 147 J per cent.—
remarkable figures, especially in view of the fact that
very good dividends have been distributed all along. The
explanation is that the office pushes the selection of risks
to the limit—a policy which several cos. with a large
initial capital could not simultaneously pursue, simply
because the supply of that class of risk isn’t large enough
to go round. Here are some of the Australian Mutual’s
figures covering 10 years :
Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1897.. £29,335 £4687 £12,345 16’0 p.c. 42-1 p.c.
1900.. 33,888 8131 13,765 24'0 „ 40'7 „
1905.. 36,088 7149 15,009 19’8 „ 41'6 „
1906.. 36,137 8535 15,420 23'6 „ 427 „
1907.. 36,358 7471 15,694 20’6 „ 42'6 „
The loss rate is about 50 p.c. below the Australasian aver-
age. Of course, the expense rate is higher—the office's
policy makes that inevitable. The financial position is
very strong. Investments total £205,489 ; on the average
amount of the investments during the year the return
was at the rate of £4 3s. per cent. The income from this
source (£8369) was almost enough to pay the dividend
and shareholders’ bonus, leaving the under-writing
profit to go to reserves for the security of policy-
holders. The reserves (apart from capitalised reserves)
are equal to 378 per cent, of the year’s premiums ; the
average for 22 leading British offices for 1905 was only
1487 per cent., and that was the best these offices had
shown for many years. Accepting premiums, then, as
the measure of risks, the Australian office offers by way
of reserves much more than twice the security offered by
the average of the leading British offices.
* * * *
The Swan Brewery Cos., which supplies beer
in Perth and dividends in Melbourne :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends Off. serves, serves.
Sept.,’ol £15,092 24 p.c. = £9,131 £1345 £4,616 £70,646
Mar., ’O2 20,483 24 „ „ 9,131 554 10,798 81,444
Sept.,’o2 15,144 24 „ „ 9,131 617 5,396 86,840
Mar., ’O3 23,660 32 „ „ 12,174 308 11,178 98,018
Premiums on new share issue .. 2,275 100 293
Sept.,’o3 14,740 24 „ „ 12,160 264 2,316 102,609
Premiums on new share issue .. 12,834 115,443
Mar., ’O4 29,717 32 „ „ 16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new share issue .. 5,265 133,866
Sent ’O4-C 19 ' 571 24 ’> » 12,174 326 7,071 00 „
P’’ 4 (Securities written up .. 1,350/ 442 ’ 2 ® 7
Mar., ’OS 24,706 32 „ „ 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
Sept.,’os 19,663 24 „ „ 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’O6 24,383 32 ~ „ 16,232 186 7,965 165,710
Sept.,’o6 13,038 24 „ „ 32,174 832 32 165,742
(and Div. Tax)
Mar., ’O7 24,601 24 „ „ 12,783 617 11,201 176,943
The profits keep at about the mean summer level. There
was nothing in the accounts to explain the bad slump in
the previous half-year’s figures ; and the fact that, if the
West drinks less in winter, its summer thirst is not at all
worn out, must be comforting to shareholders. Besides
the amount shown above as written off, an average of
over £4OOO a year is charged direct to profit and loss for
wear and tear—£2lsß for the past half-year. But while this
amount is written off plant and machinery and furniture,
brewery lands and buildings (£73,292), hotel properties
(£170,594), and a few smaller assets are in at cost. Some
of these properties were bought in the earlier days of Perth,
before the great gold output had tremendously enhanced
values ; but most of them are quite recent purchases.
Compare the two chief lines now and five years ago :
Brewery, land Hotel
and buildings, properties.
March, 1902 .. .. .. £49,740 £49,045
March, 1907 .. ■ .. .. 73,292 170,594
Last five years’ purchases £23,552 £121,549
A few years ago the co. actually wrote up the value of
some of the properties. It is quite possible that there has
been such a large increase in the value of the older
properties that no writing-off for depreciation is called
for ; but unless that increase is so great as to counter-
balance the possible depreciation of recent purchases,
something certainly ought to be written off the latter out
of revenue. It is true that the rents show a return of a
shade over 8 per cent. But that high return doesn’t
necessarily mean that the book values are low : it may
mean that the book values are so uncertain that a
large part of the difference between the 8 per cent,
and the ordinary investment return (say 5 per cent.)
ought to be set aside to provide against a possible
slump. This is the weak point in the co. Prac-
tically the whole capital and reserves are in premises,
plant, and properties; book debts and advances are
counterbalanced by overdraft (£34,126) and other debts ;
and the question is, are the values stable ? If thev are
not, then something ought to come off them, andlhat
would make the profits look smaller.
** * *
The City and Suburban Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Brisbane): —
Dividends Writ- Added
Profits, and Dividend ten to Re- Re-
Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1897.. £4llO 3 p.c.=£2797 £366 £947 £8,875
Dec., 1898.. 4681 3J „ „ 3125 102 1454 10,329
Feb., 1900.. 5914 4 „,, 4007 211 1696 12,025
Feb., 1901.. 4937 4 „ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
Feb., 1902.. 4778 4 „ „ 3221 1,417 140 13,325
Feb., 1903.. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1,192 91 13,416
Feb., 1904.. 4547 4 „ ~ 3159 1,353 35 13,451
Feb., 1905.. 4381 4 ~ „ 3185 10,380 4,267
Feb., 1906.. 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4,756
Feb., 1907.. 4201 4 „ „ 3196 594 411 5,167
Hitherto, besides subscribers, there have been permanent
and paid-up members. The permanent capital, 12 months
ago, was £31,250 in £25 shares ; these shares have now
been exchanged for paid-up shares of a like total amount.
Apart from £2517 credited to subscribers, the capital is
£72,857. Deposits total £62,744—a small advance on the
previous year’s figures ; but, in proportion to capital, the
amount is by no means excessive. Under the excellent
Queensland Building Societies Act (this is one of the
very few societies registered according to the provisions
of that Act) the borrowing may go up to, blit not exceed,
three times the amount of the capital, and none of the
borrowed money may be at call. There are sundry credi-
tors for £ll2B and a mortgage of £BOO ; the mortgage has
been reduced at the rate of £BOO a year for the past four
years, so that presumably it will now disappear alto-
gether. So far (though that is a good movement that was
just mentioned) the figures don’t show any very striking
change for the better ; yet there is a change; Five years
ago the advances and deposits at interest returned £s lss.
per cent, gross ; now, partly no doubt on account of the
amount written off nearly three years ago, the return is
£6 3s. 4d. per cent. For several years the advances fell
away ; now the tide has turned, though last year’s total
went only from £120,537 to £122,958. And no doubt,
though Brisbane, from all appearances, won’t have to do
any house-building for a good many years to come, having
years ago pretty heavily discounted the future in that
respect, the outlook from the point of view of such a
society as this is much improved. That also seems to be
the local opinion ; for this society’s shares have lately
stood higher in the market than at any previous time
since 1893.
** * *
Aron Hirsch and Son’s copper statistics for 1906
are published ; the Hirsehes and their associates are the
biggest metal buyers in the world, and their statistics are
about the most elaborate. The matter, on their figures,
may be put this way :
Production. Consumption.
1903 .. 574,740 tons .. 605,686 tons
1904 .. 640,935 „ .. 685,378 „
1905 .. 697,845 ~ .. 752 617
1906 .. 736,711 „ .. 788,008 ”
Every year, therefore, there has been a large excess of
consumption over production. When the public is told
that last year (other years are not mentioned) the pro-
duction of the metal fell short of demands by nearly
50,000 tons, it jumps at once to the conclusion that that
sort of thing can’t go on, but that meantime prices must
boom. The fact that probably 75 per cent, of the copper
that is used isn’t wasted, but is put into articles which
when they are worn out, are still of value as copper and’
as copper go back to the potto be used over again-that
important fact is overlooked. When copper commands
£IOO or thereabouts a ton, the inducement to turn the
old copper-pot into money is pretty severe. And that
has to be taken into account when the boomster men-
supplies the eonsumption of c °PPer is outstripping the
* * »
Ivanhoe, Kalgoorlie, continues to open up satis-
factorily, and looks as if it still had a long life ahead of it.
On December 31 the ore reserves gave a supply of 51
months, assaying 545. 5d., and since then the extraction
has been 455. 3d. per ton. The ore reserves do not include
the two bottom levels, which are looking well, but are
not much developed yet'. Manag'er Nicolson appears to
have got a good substitute for underground manager
MacDermott, who has gone to the Sons of Gwalia ; any-
way, things continue in the same style at the Ivanhoe
* • * »
North Boulder, Kalgoorlie, recently recon-
structed with an assessment of 2s. per share, has taken
over the Oroya Extended, long known as the Kalgoorlie
Mint and Iron King. The price was 80,000 fully-paid
10s. shares. The co. is in 400,000 shares, of which 87,000
were in reserve, so that no increase of nominal capital is
needed. Up to the end of 1899 the co. treated nearly
30,000 tons for a yield of 40,0000 z., and paid divs. of
£27,500, from the Friday lode, on the extreme w estern
boundary of the lease. This lode then passed into the
Associated, and has lain idle for eight years, although
numerous offers have been made to successive Associated
managers to work the ground on tribute. The same lode
was worked by an open cut in the Oroya by Capt.
Parkes in 1897-1899, and yielded 21,0000 z. from 49,500
tons, resulting in one div. of £9491. Recently,
owing to the persistence of would-be tributors, a
prospecting shaft was started near the east boun.
dary in the Associated, and the lode proved at
100 ft. to be 3ft. wide worth 250 e. per ton, and at 200 ft.
it is equally rich, where tested, and carries telluride.
Whether the lode continues in the Associated, or passes
into the old Kalgoorlie Mint and Iron King further south,
is not yet proved. Gerald Browne, late attorney for the
North Boulder, held the opinion that the Mint gets it ;
hence the present amalgamation. Australian share-
holders have three months from March 27 to come into the
new co.
• • * *
Kalgurli (W.A.), so far as one can learn, is all
right below, the fall in profit being attributed to re-
duced tonnage treated, and the consequent higher costs.
The fact of the matter is things have been run at too
high pressure, with the inevitable result that machinery
could not stand the strain. The mill engine has been
overhauled and auxiliary engines used meanwhile ; and,
until a thorough overhaul is completed, the tonnage is
likely to remain low. Still, on the last two months’re-
duced profits, the co. is earning £54,000 against quarterly
divs. of 7s. 6d., or £45,000, so it can continue the present
distribution. The mine is a very difficult one to sample,
as the ore lenses run up to 200 ft. in length, and, in
places, up to nearly half that in width, and values vary
greatly. Ore reserves, on December 31, were sufficient
for five years’ supply. The value was then given as 60s.
Since then the extraction has been January 595.,
February 605., and March 595. ; while costs have been
21s. Id., 225. 4d., and 225. Bd., repairs of breakages
accounting for the increase.
* * * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, now thrown back on
the hands of the original owners, is to be vigorously
developed, and equipped with a 10-head mill. The main
shaft is to be sunk from 300 ft. to 450 ft., and anew level
will be put in at the latter depth. There is a lot of ore of
payable grade in the oxidised zone, and this will keep a
mill running for a considerable time. Of course, the
mine will not be worked on the big scale that would have
been adopted had 8., M. and Op. taken it in hand, but still
it will be handled vigorously. The price asked was
£45,000 cash, and one-fifteenth interest, while the adjoin-
ing owners demanded another £13,000 cash. This meant
£58,000 cash down, and as much more would have been
required to open up and equip the property—a pretty
tall order. The owners reckon that the property
will never be offered again at so low a figure, and are not
worrying at the failure of the deal.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies(W. A. )isbeing straightened
up by Manager Duncan. With the idea of economising,
late manager Ferguson shifted everything from the old
mine to the new (the Goodenough), and, as much of the
material was bad, the result was unsatisfactory. Duncan
has appointed an entirely new staff, and is erecting new
head-gear, and trying to put everything in order. But
unless the Brisbane directors give him a freer hand than
they gave his predecessor, Duncan will be too hampered
to g'et good results. Whether the mine will ever become
payable it is impossible to say. The original owners
rooted out a lot of rich patches, but “ Boulder ” Hamil-
ton rejected the mine after sampling. Nevertheless, too
little work has been done to utterly condemn it.
Ida H., Laverton (W.A.), which has been
rather under a cloud for some time past, is looking up
again. The ore reserves, which, a year ago, were esti-
mated at 16,000 tons, worth 50s. a ton, are now stated to
be 25,000 tons of about the same value. Monthly costs on
this mine are very high, running up to nearly 40s. a ton,
and are not published regularly. The scrip is very little
dealt in, but shares are nominally about 3s. The co.
paid its last div. in April, 1905, and since then it has been
struggling, owing to the impoverishment of the reef in
the sulphide zone.
* * * *
Tindalls, Cue (W.A.), about four miles north of
Great Fingall, is pushing on development, but very' little
information can be gleaned about the results. When the
co. was recently' floated, the lode at 550 ft. was given as
20ft. wide, and worth 20dwt. Since then the level has
been opened up to an extent of about 500 ft., but pub-
lished reports say nothing of width or'value. One bore-
hole on the south end of the property has located
nothing, and a second is down 200 ft.," also without
encountering values. The spirits of Bull holders are
kept up by' cables to the effect that important develop-
ments are expected shortly ; but nothing eventuates.
The property may be a good one, but is fully valued at
£450,000 in £1 shares. There does not seem to be any
market for the scrip, and there is not likely' to be till
more precise information is available.
* * * *
Whim Well, Pilbarra (W.A.), has just sold its
first consignment of copper ore in Liverpool—the first,
that is, under present control. The parcel consisted of
99 tons, assaying 26‘94 per cent, copper ; and it realised
£2536, or £25 12s. 4d. a ton. The co. holds 260 acres
about 50 miles east of Roeburne, and 15 miles from the
coast. There is a hill of copper ore on the property, and
it is said that it will not be necessary'to do any mining
for years, as enough ore can be quarried out, even if the
property is worked on a large scale. Since 1891 ore has
been sent aw'ay' at intervals to smelters, but very'little
since 1902. In all, 5006 tons have been disposed of for
£99,901. The mine is now held by a London co. with a
capital of £150,000 in £1 shares, and it is said that 300 tons
of ore will be despatched monthly. If it realises as much
as the first lot, the monthly' output will be over £7500.
The average value of the ore shipped previously was £2O
a ton ; but that was when prices were much lower. The
mine was formerly' held by' the Bank of New Zealand,
which accepted £IOO,OOO in fully'-paid shares for the
property in 1900.
* * * *
An old and experienced correspondent puts for-
ward a better view of Barrambie than this paper has been
inclined to entertain Barrambie Ranges, Murchison
(VV.A.), promises better than most places in that fickle
goldfield. The gold occurs in rich dabs along the line of
reef, already' proved for a length of 1000 ft., ana the
cupidity' of men employed has already led to several
prosecutions and convictions. Sly grog selling in that
part of the country is rampant, and the morals of a cer-
tain push are sulphurous. One lady', who was recently
fined £3O for using the corkscrew surreptitiously',
elected to take it out, and is the heroine of the
camp w'hich she infested. A jamboree to celebrate
her entrance into captivity ended in her shanty being
burned down, but nearly enough crude gold was
forthcoming next day to build a full-fledged pub;
and yet mines are not numerous thereabouts.-
Mannger Aldridge, now on the .Barrambie mine, has
taken vigorous action to stop gola-stealing there, and
police from Nannine have already chased some of the
undesirables out of the district. Aldridge was one of the
first managers on the Murchison ; he bossed the Island
Lake Austin for a Melbourne crowd, 15 years ago. He
has control of the Mainland Consols as well as of the
Barrambie. The former is a show abandoned by Kaufman
after an expenditure of something like £IOO,OOO. It used
to be wonderfully rich—one of the leases, the Last
Chance, dollied out at the rate of 3000 oz. to the ton. G.


A new improved drill maker and sharpener is
superseding the somewhat expensive method of sharpen-
ing; drills by hand. The machine will be welcomed by all
mining coy's, because the men are able to sharpen up to
about 140 drills an hour without trouble, consequently
increasing the output and reducing the cost which secures
to the mines substantial benefit. The makers are Messrs.
Word Bros., of San Francisco, who have supplied their
machines to all leading mines throughout North and South
America, and in other countries. W. & J. Lempriere, of
Melbourne and Sydney, have been appointed the sole Aus-
tralian agents. The machine has the distinction of being
a drill maker as well as drill sharpener.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
Felton Grimwade, and Co., Melbourne, an-
nounce that their new catalogue of assay materials,
chemical apparatus, microscopes, etc., will be sent, post
free, on request, to mine managers, assavers and others.
This edition (5th blue cover) is profusely illustrated, and
all prices are revised to date.*
* * » *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [d.]
* * « *
The Insurance India (London), in its September,
1906, issue, writes; —“We have to congratulate the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society on a remarkably
excellent report for the year ending 31st December, 1905.
From a new business point of view, the year was the
most successful that the Society has experienced for a
long time, the new policies issued numbering 3687 and
assuring £922,401.”*
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other. It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
OobAR. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
ri J m * * *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X * * *
Budgert.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale,
N.S.W., T.P.O. No. 3 West. On the Field.*;
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared.to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * * •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
•* * * ■ *
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
« * # *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler wWere fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at \A)rk or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* » * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Oollison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
M. Roberts, now manager of the Associated, was in charge
for a time, but had to give it best. Aldridge is unwater-
ing the old workings and intends sinking. The develop-
ments should be worth watching.
* * * *
Engineer Frew, who built the Chillagoe line, is
bustling on the Almaden-Georgetown railway, and the
Einasleigh people are hoping that the end of the year will
see the rails well out towards their mine. But with so
many railway proposals on hand at the same time in
Queensland, it does not appear as if any construction
records will be broken. Commissioner Thallon feels
cocksure that Cloncurry will be visited by an engine by'
the end of December, and he may be right; but he is a
bit optimistic. Labor and sleepers will be joint troubles
in Queensland for some time to come.
When that engine shrieks itself into Cloncurry
at Christmas time (if it does), those who have bought
into freeholds, and wild cats, and, lastly, good copper
shows, will learn how sadly they have miscalculated the
position. Even if there was a half-hourly service to
Townsville, a vast percentage of the shows in this dis-
trict of vast distances would still find that “ all they want
is rail connection.” Asa matter of fact, when they do
get to work it will not be long before they will also
realise that they' want sulphide ore, and unless the pubi c
takes a commonsense view of tne position, Cloncurry will
be unmentionable to the investor. The railway to Clon-
curry will, like the smelter on an undeveloped mine,
show for the time the emptiness of things. And the void
in many’ cases will be a painful one, for the Australian
speculator swallowed Cloncurry stocks at high prices ; and
now the London promoters are waiting for him to cough
the undigested morsel up. Doubtless in the course of a
few months London will have something new in the way
of North Queensland floats to dose Australia with.
Stated on good authority that Bewick-Moreing
are thirsting for Etheridge (N.Q.) propositions, and it
looks as if this much-discussed and neglected field will
get a little bit more than its railway this time. On paper,
the railway project, if carried out by the Chillagoe Cos.
with as much of its own money as possible, looks a very
good thing for that co. The old Einasleigh Fr eh old Cos.
narrowdy escaped the right to construct the Hue from
Almaden, through Einasleigh, out to Georgetown ; but a
purchase of the line by the Government was not then
thought of. Now the Chillagoe Cos. has purchased the
Einasleigh Co.’s survey, and that will help on Engineer
Frew’s work.
One thing certain about the Etheridge is that
there is no dearth of sulphide. Primarily, it is a gold-
field—a field of refractory ores—but, to those who know
it well, the gold is only one phase. Silver-lead, Copper,
tin and wolfram are the industrial metals which make
the Etheridge railway an interesting proposition ; but it
will be w’ell, before the public is presently dragged into
an Etheridge boom, to consider who are promoting the
business. Thar. Cloncurry deserves a railway need not be
doubted; that it also deserves a certificate as an over-
boomed place will later on be fully realised. That the
Etheridge line is justified by possibilities likewise cannot
be doubted ; and it now remains for the public to see
that it does not allow itself to be caught in an Etheridge
boom.
Not much is heard, in all the North Queensland
boom talk, of the Einasleigh. Refloated in London recently,
an Australasian office has been opened in Adelaide. Probably
no mine has been so much reported on—from Richard
Daintree, Government Geologist in the ’sixties, who ac-
quired the property, down to G. H. Blakemore of Oobar,
and Stewart and Hill of London. Certainly the Einasleigh
people need not make much of a song—with the railway
through to the mine, the lode, if it is as large and high-
grade as good men say it is, should do all the singing that
is required.
Another Einasleigh Cos. is shortly to come into ex-
istence. Two blocks, both of which are supposed to con-
tain the big Einasleigh lode, have fallen into the hands of
syndicates headed by R. S. Archer, Robt. Philp, G. C.
Willcocks, W. H. Woodhead, Wm. Maxwell and James
Stewart. Dr. Jack has been sent up to report upon the
properties.
• • * *
Dr. Jack’s report on Mt. Cannindah (Q.) is
not altogether the scrappy, inconclusive thing that some
of his recent reports have been, no doubt because this co.
could afford to pay him to take II days over the examina-
tion. Yet the report is a long way from being conclusive.
He values the metal in the mine down to No. 2 level at
£634,565. Also he mentions that the mining, milling,
and smelting costs were £23 2s. per ton, according to the
last half-yearly report. But that was only for copper in
an average-grade matte. What of the costs of convert-
ing, refining, and realising? There are about sdwt.
gold and lOoz. silver per ton of 50 p.c. matte ; and
that will go some way, but not all the way, towards
paying refining charges. Freight of matte to the
coast alone at present means about £lO per ton of copper.
Converting would probably cost £8 more. (In the half-
year to September 30, 1906, in which the O.K. started to
handle its own matte, it produced 352 tons of blister
copper, and the converting costs were £3816, or nearly
£ll per ton.) In view of the gold and silver contents,
add£6 more for refining and freight; total £24, or more
than the costs on the mine. To arrive at the £634,565
mentioned, copper is taken by Dr. Jack at £95 per ton.
He estimates 6627 tons of metal. With the market at £95
and costs at £47, there would he a profit of £4B per ton,
or in all £318,096. Put it in another way :
Value of Probable Per
Copper. Profit. Share.
£95 £318,096 17/8
85 1 251,826 13/11
75 185,556 10/2
65 .. .. .. 119,286 6/6
But out of that must come part at least of the cost of
equipment ; for present plant is insignificant. Beyond
the No. 2 level Dr. Jack doesn’t go. But the possibilities
beyond that may be very well used as a set-off against
the inevitable losses in concentration and also the
possibility of the cost-figures given above being too low.
The cost of mining' is officially given as 6s. 4d. per ton of
ore, or £l6 4s. per ton of copper. That is remarkably
low for a low-grade (2£ per cent.) ore. At Wallaroo and
Moonta it cost £54 10s. per ton of copper last year ; at
Mt. Lyell, for the half-year to September last, it cost
6s. OJd. per ton of ore—at Lyell, with its great open-cuts.
But, making allowances of this sort, Cannindah, on Logan
Jack’s word, is a bigger thing than it had been reckoned
by most people. *
Position with regard to Mt. Hector (Q.) is un-
certain. It is alleged that, while G. P. Doolette would
not take Glassford Creek without Hector and preferred
them together, he is willing to take on Hector on a six
months’ option. The chances are that, though the
shareholders threw Doolette’s amalgamated proposal out
with so much scorn, they will accept the new offer. And
they had better grab it with both hands. They profess
to believe that they have no end of a mine; but they
don’t show any eagerness to push Dr. Jack’s report before
the public. And the smelting returns are very small
potatoes up to now. The proposal is to give them £1 per
share in cash and four shares in anew 300,000 share co.
Doolette has left for England, where he will place this, if
he handles it at all.
* * * *
According to Home Secretary Airey, the Kid-
ston Government has made up its mind to supply one
custom smelter at Cloncurry and another at Townsville.
The Bulletin wishes Queensland better luck than every
other State-smelting enterprise has had in Australia. An
assured and regular ore-supply is the first essential of a
smelter, and in practice the only way to get a regular
supply at a remunerative price is to own or control a
mine. If the State wants to make a success of smelting,
it will either be obliged to have its own mines to turn to,
or in issuing leases it will have to reserve certain rights
to an ore supply.
* * * *
The figures for the first four months of the year
tell how sick Charters Towers keeps
1905. 1906. 1907.
Gold £301,728 £257,915 £272,294
Dividends ... .. £67,785 £46,034 £28,973
OalJs 35,378 51,877 25,811
Surplus of divs. .. £32,407 £3,162
Excess of calls .. £5,843
The shrinkage in calls is almost as unsatisfactory as the
shrinkage in dividends; for in many cases it means,
not that success, but that something like despair, has
come. Carrington United (which is going to put up
reverbs, to deal with its copper), Pfeiffers (the most
profitable plaything of the share-dealer lately), and
Brilliant Central are the brighter patches in »
gloomy situation. Mention of share-dealing recalls
that to the end of April this year the local Ex-
change recorded transactions in 157,021 shares, as
against 375,256 for the first four months of last year.
Mills United for the six months to the middle of April
had a revenue of £94,863, and a profit of £46,041; the 3s.
divs. with tax absorbed £47,250, so they were not wholly
earned. The stone treated was 24,724.t0n5. Known ore
reserves are said to be “probably the same as at the
commencement of the term, viz., 120,000 tons; but the
average value is slightly less.” The market says the
shares are worth 17s. There have been times when on
those figures the market could have pVoved to its own
complete satisfaction that it was throwing the shares
away at 275.
* * * *
Ambrose Silver-Copper Mines, Ltd., privately
floated in a co. of 120,000 shares of ss. each, takes over a
show situated on Gowrie Creek, 90 miles north of Charters
Towers. A shaft is down 130 ft. on the Spray lode, which
carries high-grade silver-copper ore. From this shaft 46 tons
of ore netted £1992. The bottom shows 3250 z. silver and
20 per cent, copper, worth £52 12s. 6d. per ton of ore. A
shaft is down 110 ft. on the Lass o’ Gowrie lode, the sink
bulking lloz. silver and 28 per cent, copper. Eight tons
netted £220 16s. The Silver Spray lode is said to be
equally rich, but has not yet been tested with a shipment.
The Spray lode has been opened by shafts over a length of
lode of 1900 ft.; and in width it runs to about 2ft. 6in.
Reduction plant is to be installed immediately. The
show was opened by Herbert Ambrose, who gets £3OOO
casli and 12,000 paid shares.
* * * •
Mungana (Q.) should be making money out of
ore sent to Chillagoe smelters. A month’s run gave 32
tons copper and 55500 z. silver from the copper furnace,
and 156 tons lead bullion containing 11,6500 z. silver from
the lead furnace —roughly about £BOOO worth of copper,
lead, and silver for the month. There is no knowing
what the expenses were. Of lead 976 tons were smelted,
and the return pans out about 15 per cent, lead and 12oz.
silver, with some copper in matte. Mungana lead ore
thus yielded about £6 per ton, and the copper ore nearly
twice as much ; but the profit depends on the cost of
mining and smelting—and Chillagoe does the smelting ;
and Chillagoe wants money. One shilling a share means
£25,000 to Mungana Cos. ; so the profit on £BOOO worth of
metals produced in a month won’t go far per share. Still
the co. had a handy credit balance at the last clean-up of
accounts, and a profit of £2OOO odd a month would make
a Is. dividend in 12 months —which is a little in a long
while. It is probably the look of the ledger that has
prompted English booming of these shares; but, con-
sidered as an investment, profits need to be more rapid.
* * * *
Manager Palmer, of Broken Hill Junction
North, in his zeal to provide plant to treat the co.’s ore,
and ore to be treated, seems to have swept through the
co.’s funds like a tornado, and would have been
going still had not the Board cried a temporary
halt. Development work that might have waited
awhile was carried out with great vigor, a tremend-
ous amount of surface construction work was put
in hand, and the mill was overhauled and altered and
added to until it hardly knew itself. When the mill
settles down to sober work there is certainly plenty of
ore at the three bottom levels to feed it on. Palmer’s
policy has at least assured that. The 1137 ft. is almost
ready to go into at any'moment, and the completion of
the central mullocking system is all that is required to
allow of a large ore production.
* » « *
B.H. Block 14’s Mother Goose is the carbonate
zone, which has produced some thousands of tons during
the past half-year, and there is now more of that ore in
sight than there was six months ago. In the sulphide
levels, however, there is often a good deal of scraping
done to keep the mill going, and nowadays the rapacious
monster rarely has a real good feed. The grade of ore
broken, too, is not improving.
*.* » *
North Broken Hill mine is proving a nice body
of ore at the 500 ft. level, where the upper portion of the
lode now being worked at the lower levels is being
developed. There are rumors afloat that the Junction
North ore bodies, which were supposed to be dipping
into the North mine at depth, have declined to show such
disloyalty, and instead turn turtle (as Barrier lodes often
do) and skip back into the Junction North. Still, the
North mine has large bodies of ore of its own. The
Victoria Cross shaft is now about ready to allow of
development work being started there, and this will prove
whether the North ore body pitching towards the
Victoria shaft exists in depth in that property. Some
people think that it has been deflected to the westward.
It is the same problem which has so far baffled pros-
pectors at the other end of the line of lode, towards the
White Leads.
* * * *
That Lobb’s Hole mine (N.S.W.), which a
Sydney co., just formed, is to take over, has some extra-
ordinary features. Though it has been proved payable
for 540 ft., with good ore showing in one face, the vein is
on an average rather less than Ift. wide ; but about 6in.
of that has been unaltered ore averaging 28 per cent,
copper, which is equal at present price of copper to about
7oz. gold. Without being wholly worked out, down to
120 ft. this vein, taking copper at £BO per ton, has yielded
£41,000 worth of metal; and underfoot it is the same
value. Mine-engineers Horton and Freeman, who report
on the show, say that it is a true fissure, and practically
certain to continue to great depths. If it does, and the
value continues, there should be £56,000 worth of copper
in every 100 ft. of depth, taking copper at £BO. The most
striking thing about the vein is that right from the cap-
ping it has been unaltered ore, due to the fact that over-
lying it is an impervious breccia. The original
owners have worked it for 10 years under tremendous
difficulties; they have had to send their ore away
on pack-horses, which have had to climb 3000 ft. in 2J
miles. All the second-grade ore has therefore been left
on the surface ; and second-grade ore under such circum-
stances has been 6 per cent, stuff—worth over £6 per ton
at present prices. Tracks have, however, been cut, and
transport facilities are now being generally improved.
The mine shows the size of the difficulties that the
pioneer miner still has to overcome even in N.S. Wales.
The Mt. Lyell Cos. will not go on with the Blue
Tier tin racket—a hint in this direction was given in The
Bulletin a month back. Blue Tier, had the Lyell folk
been satisfied, was to have been melted into a 250,000
share co., with a working capital of £150,000. The area
to be controlled was about 1600 acres near Lottah, and
included the Australian tin mine, as well as the Blue Tier
leases. One thing can be done now by the owners—that
is to work the ground. Tin is there, but it needs to be
won, and small cos. can do the best work. Or it is not
too late for them to come to terms with Lewis, of the
Anchor, and see if he could not make a better do of his
own ground with the aid of ore from one or two of the
Blue Tier leases.
* « * *
Manager Thomas, who has had the Cybele
(Tas ) in hand, has hit that boom tin-show hard with two
telegrams. He has had the mine for months, but his
discovery is mud« only after nearly £20,000 has been
spent on plant, and after one miserable clean-up has been
obtained. Over 150 bores were put down on the
around prior to flotation, and Thomas him-
self seems, after his. appointment, to have had some
boring done. On the original boring Grayson and others
brought out the prospectus, in which tin estimates of lib.
per cub. yard were given. Thomas says the show is a
“ r otter ” and Grayson, full up with doubt, wants an
independent report. The first thing to do is to have the
bores checked, and to ascertain whether the supervision
was close and how and by whom the samples were washed
up. On this everything depends, for what gave the show
support was the apparent care taken to test the
ground in advance of flotation. If the boring was not
negligent, the show stands as before. If it was
negligent, responsibility wants to be sheeted home.
While this is going on investors can dwell on the Tas-
manian tin records that have been put up. Gladstone
and Ringarooma are pretty well water-logged; Briseis
Extended, Weldbrook and Wyniford are in much the
same way: and even the Briseis is far below original
estimates. The tally is a sorry one. Still, seeing how
the South Mt. Cameron pulled itself out of the mud,
there may be a chance for the Cybele. Someone will
have to be heroic. The co. wants a manager. Let Gray-
son take it in hand and justify himself.
*■* • *
T. J. Dyson, who came down from the Northern
Territory three months ago to have a loolj around on
behalf of the Northern Territory Mines, Ltd.—which has
some money it doesn’t know what to do with and some
machinery that it knows less how to find a use for—has
been rummaging Tasmania. He has picked up the old
Adelaide mine at Dundas, whose former owners have
always been beaten by water. Some of the plant now in
the N.T. will be shifted down.
“ E. 8.,” from Reedy Creek (Vic.): “ Our field
a ‘ noted call-paying-district,’ and our reefs ‘ little better
than stringers ’ 1 Listen to me. The Langridge turned
out, it is estimated, four tons of gold ; in three years,
previous to 1881, after it was considered worked-out, it
gave £23,000 in dividends. The Crown Cos. paid £30,000
in dividends. You can’t call such mines stringers. The
Golden Dyke contained antimony and gold.; and it is
only of late that they have got appliances for treating
such mineral. They are at present on the tailings, which
are giving- good results. The Empress of India and
Balmers United are only down 200 ft. The former is
estimated to have yielded 16,0000 z. to that depth ; and the
latter gave good results when worked by a co-operative
party, and is at present being developed at the 200 ft. level.
This has been a neglected goldfield for the past 25 yearsj
but in its day it was one of the richest in the State.”
That’s what’s the matter with a lot of fields. “In their
day ” they were very good ; but their day was yesterday.
Even a good goldfield can’t dig out its gold and keep it too.
But that is the last thing the old goldfield realises.
* • * *
When the directors of the Union mine, Dia-
mond Creek(Vic.), unwatered that veteran, and found that
the holes in the pump had in olden times been stuffed with
candles, they took it as a happy augury. In the Hartz
mountains the miner would have said that it was the work
of the “ little men ” —the gnomes who never do anything
but mischief. But Australians jumped to the conclusion
that this meant rich stone left in the old days—that some-
body or other had made up his mind to get the property
after the then owners had been flooded out. The Union
has, so far, however, only added another tribute to the
good workmanship of the old-timer. The good stone
was skinned as clean as a Board table usually is of the
directors’ fees that are thrown upon it. What there
was left of the reef hasn’t set the Thames afire either :
as although the bottom (500 ft.) level carries 12 inches of
stone, the gold is as poor as an average bank director’s
charity to his clerks. There is some 7dwt. stone between
Nos. 7 and 8 levels, and this ought to pay expenses and
allow the other funds to be applied towards prospecting
along the different levels. The Union deserves better
luck, for it has been kept off the share market; it has
enthusiastic backers, and its success would favorably
affect other mines in the locality.
* » * *
The Daylesford-Ajax (Vic.) flutter looks like
proving barren ground to most of the investors. Fully 25
call-makers can be counted up in the list for May. The
drain on the public for the month in calls is put down at
£BOOO ; but it isn’t anything like that, because investors
did not bite so well as promoters hoped they would.
Ballarat took up a lot of scrip, certainly, but it was on
the pool system ; and the Stock Exchange of Melbourne, by
refusing to quote promoters’ shares, hit the men who
wanted to make a market on the reputation of the Ajax
between wind and water. Flop went rates, and they have
not finished falling yet. The next stage will be that of
forfeiture, and the next, if new finds are not reported,
will be liquidation. Two mines only stand out as profit
earners at Daylesford. One of them, the Victorian
Cornish, seems to have run its profit-earning course for
the present; and the other, the Ajax, does not show its
old strength. The big battery may be telling tales, and,
if so, the next two or three crushings will be interesting.
As it. is, the mine is a fluke, for the make of stone now
being worked was not the one the management expected.
Still that leaves the co. with a second string to its bow, on
which, should the first fail, it may be able to play. The
main feature about the market in the co.’s shares is the
plenitude of sellers and the scarcity of buyers.
Someone has been playing a game with the Sir John
Franklin (Vic.), and the Argus, in its attempt to vie with
Age mining spread-eagleism, has sent out a column of
flam. Sir John Franklin is a little show up Wood’s Point
way that is trying to make both ends meet by working
quartz veins in a dyke formation. This isn’t very pro-
fitable when depth is reached, as all local records show,
though near the surface Wood’s Point mines were some of
the richest bonanzas of Victoria. Shares for months
have moved as languidly as a loafer away from a free-
lunch table, a shilling being about their top rate. Then
someone, whether in a spirit of mischief or as a fraud,
wrote a letter in an illiterate way, suggesting that it
came from a couple of hands in the mine, telling of a
hidden-up strike of stone. The letter was dropped where
the claquers of the Stock Exchange would be bound to
get it. But it was too obviously a fake. If there had
been anything in the alleged find, shares would not have
dwelt at under a shilling. Above all, miners would not
have written in the strain adopted. The whole thing was
so clumsy that even the Argus ought to have seen
through * * *
Britannia United, Ballarat, is in the death
throes, owing to expensive legal and liquidation proceed-
ings. Some months ago compensation of about £2COO
was paid to a Methodist church for undermining the
ecclesiastical property, and the fight to a finish with the
Last Chance Cos. entailed a lawyer’s bill of nearly as
much. The mine was then taken over for the “ benefit ”
of the creditors, who, however, like the shareholders,
seem to be left out in the wet. Presently the plant and
everything that is not a legal document will be auctioned
off, and one of the most promising shows in Ballarat East
will be an object lesson to mining cos. not to go fooling
with the Law.
* * * •
“Ralph Tinderwood” writes from Maoriland : —
“ The attempted resurrection of Mt. Deddick (Vic.) recalls
memories. I was a mining reporter in Mt. Deddick’s
previous days, and was turned on to those parts several
times ; also I worked there underground. The Deddick
country was the scene of ‘Mackay’s Nugget,’on which
numerous yarns have been built. In the early 'forties
two drovers, O’Loughlin and Mackay, were travelling
through that part, when Mackay picked up a shining
yellow lump and handed it to his mate. O’Loughlin,
saying it was brass, threw it away. Years later Mackay
saw gold nuggets, and then he remembered his nugget.
The long search, which ended up in Mackay’s mind
becoming unbalanced, was unsuccessful. Fourteen years
ago I was leading one of the Government prospecting
parties, and well searched the Mackay country, and I am
satisfied that the yellow metal he found was native
copper : I found some of it near the New Country River,
in a dolomite formation.
“ The Deddick group was found by the Smith
family, though the James brothers claim the predit—and
that isn’t much. On the office maps the lode looked
splendid: it went through Central Mount Deddick,
United Mount Deddick, and had a look in at White Hills,
half a mile off its course. The North Mount Deddick
lode, on the opposite side of the river, was about 9in.
wide by 30ft. in length in the syenitic and porphyritic
granite, the country rock through which it intruded.
On the southern side of the river was the Black Hill,
supposed to be a continuation. Shafts, costeens and
tunnels failed to discover the lode’s whereabouts. The
Central Mount Deddick had four imaginary lodes, and
tunnels were driven to strike them at 400 ft. below the
surface ; but unfortunately the lode materialised-only
on the office plans. The United had the only genuine
formation on the whole group. The lode was from 2ft. to
4ft. wide, of solid galena, about 100 ft. in length, before
the syenitic country rock cut off its glorious career. It
was alleged that it assayed 90oz. of silver to the ton ; but
I could not find one-fourth of that. This was about the
only genuine silver-lead lode on the field. The Mount
Deddick had a patch 30ft. long and 2ft. wide, proved down
about 30ft. by a shaft from which a level was driven 20ft.
north and south ; but, as usual, the syenitic rock chopped
it off short.”
• * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta Cos. has 40,000 £2 shares
in reserve, and 160,000 issued ; and for some reason not
very clear the reserved shares are to be let out in a month
or two. The announcement isn’t much use to the
market, which hasn’t been told any of the conditions,
except that the shares are to be offered pro rata. This
would mean one new share for every four old ones. The
co. can’t want to get in money (it had a liquid surplus of
£201,396 at the end of December), so presumably there
will be no call on the shareholders. A 10s. dividend (25
per cent.) would pay for the new issue. Last year the co.
made £160,122 before allowing for depreciation, with
standard copper averaging £B7 Bs. sd. per ton ; and as it
has stood at £IOO all this year, aiid as Wallaroo and
Moonta’s output is about 3850 tons of copper per half-
year, a 25 per cent, dividend, to' be paid in the shape of
a share bonus, isn’t at all impossible. But the official
announcement says that “legal steps will be taken to
carry out the directors’ decision, after the declaration of
the dividend in June.” That doesn’t necessarily conflict
with the idea of a 25 per cent. (10s.) dividend, to be
absorbed by a 10s. call to pay for the new shares ; but it
suggests that the two things are to be distinct. Any way,
at is.a windfall. Shares (£2 paid) are now worth £5 15s.
At the end of 1905—seventeen months ago—they were
worth £ll2s.
Craig and Cos., Paisley, Scotland, report on
Taranaki crude petroleum :—“ Oil of exceptional
quality... most superior we have examined... products
all of excellent quality, color and smell... high propor-
tion of wax of high-melting point... very small propor-
tions of unsaturated hydrocarbons... resembles in
character and purity Pennsylvanian petroleum." The
results of first distillation were Crude spirit, 21'53
p.c. ; crude petroleum, 25'74 p.c. ; heavy oil, 47T5 p.c.
Refined products Spirit, 14'3l p.c. ; kerosene (Ist
quality), 32'00 p.c.,; kerosene (2nd quality), 6'25 p.c.;
gas oil, 14'81 p.c. ; spindle oil, 8'75 p.c.; refined wax,
1070 p.c. ; residue oil from wax, I'Bo p.c. The
report reads well;; . but definite opinions had better
be left over till Craig and Cos. have supplied quota-
tions for the necessary refining plant. Expert George
Adams, of Galicia (Austria), Java, Sumatra, Borneo
and the world, estimated that the cost would reach
£200,000 ; if so, it takes some of the gilt off the glowing
remarks. However, the pressure at the Birthday bore is
as high as ever, and steady progress is being made at
other bores. But the non-arrival of an expected expert
from Canada is delaying matters.
* * * *
B.H. Prop, has generally been ready to adopt
progressive ideas—slime sintering, Huntingdon-Heberlein
converters, sulphuric acid manufacture, and a long tail
of smallerimprovements, including lately the steam shovel.
The latest item at the Port Pirie smelters is a gas pro-
ducer, which is to replace the fire boxes at the roasting
furnaces. Producing gas in a furnace by the suction of
air and steam through a mass of very hot fuel is a process
we aredikely to hear more about. There is a continuous
line of progression in such things when inventive talent
is fostered ; but that is only the case when we manu-
facture for ourselves.


Hotel
Australia
RATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
H ALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing. ,
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Hassan”: Be par (25/4/’O7) concerning
the trade in lyre-birds’ tails and portions of
other deceased Australian “protected” fauna.
Victoria is not the only State where the
furriers openly display these latter ends.
The trouble is that if any inquiries are
made by the police of Victoria the shopkeeper
suavely informs the zealous John that the tails in
question came from the wronged and bleeding
New South Wales. Conversely, the Sydney
bobby is told that the articles were separated
from the ends of Victorian dicky-birds. The
only remedy is, of course, a Federal Act, but
when I consider the possibility of such a “ wrong ”
to New South Wails —well, excuse me while I go
out and kill a Victorian.
LUMPING BY PROXY.
THE LEANER : “ Can you give us a job?”
THE OTHER : “ Yes. I’m looking for a strong
man like you to lump wheat.”
THE LEANER : “ Olright, boss, if I see a likely -
looking bloke I’ll pass ’im on to yer.”
Curious conduct on the part of a cow is
reported from Narracan Creek, Gippsland. There
had been a heavy downpour and much thunder,
and the cow did not turn up next day. After a
two days’ search Mrs. Moo was discovered stuck
fast in a large hollow log. She had evidently
worked her way into the log seeking shelter.
There was room for her only in a kneeling posi-
tion, and she had broken both horns off in her
struggles to get out. The log had to be split to
liberate the source of Victoria’s greatness—fide
Bent.
A fox was, the other day, seen as far
north as droughty Hergott (S.A.), well up
towards the heart of the continent. When this
recently-imported curse began to show his sharp
nose, S. Australians, anxious to make the best of a
bad bargain, said that, anyhow, he couldn’t
spread beyond the comparatively mild south and
south-east. And already he is stalking the lamb
in the Far North. The fact had better be remem-
bered when Dr. Danysz says that the beastie he
wants to liberate to wipe out the rabbit is too
slow to catch other animals. Under Australian
conditions there is no telling what the imported
beastie won’t do in time.
The only newspaper the boundary-rider
at Dumbletown threw into the hut-lceepeffs open
window was an occasional copy of the Sydney
Morning Herald. It thus came to pass that
Jerry, the hutkeeper, imbibed a whole cataract
of foolishness about the despotic interference of
Socialism in the affairs of life, and, visiting Syd-
ney at Show time, fell an easy victim. “Hi,”
said an austere man in blue serge, “ where are you
going?” “To look about me, after seven years
on Dumbletown,” answered Jerry. “Where’s
your permit?” asked the austere man. “Me
what?” “Your permit. Did you lodge your
money ? No ? See here, are you mad ? Do you
want to be thrown into gaol for five years? Don’t
you know you should have reported yourself at
the Central, lodged your money, and only drawn
each day what you required?” “I knew there
were some new-fangled ideas, but I didn’t think
they were so bad as that. What does the law require
me to do?” “To lodge your money and get a
permit, of course. You’re liable to five years for
going about as you’re doing. Come this way.
How much money have you on you?” “Four
poun’ ten.” “ Well, give it here. This is the
Central. I’ll get you your permit.” Half-an-hour
later a policeman asked Jerry what he was
lounging about for, and, being told, laughed so
loudly that the sergeant sent a man to move the
disturber. Jerry now says that it was all the
fault of that fool of a Herald, which had really
persuaded him that the liberty of the subject was
quite obliterated.
• * * •
“ Gip ” : Read somewhere, the other day,
that very little w;is known of the habits of the
butcher-bird in captivity. For the benefit of
those who may be tempted to make a pet of a
butcher-bird, I send in this : When learning to
shoot I one day aimed at the white trunk of an
old-man gum, and shot a butcher-bird in the wing
some 25yds. the other side of said trunk. No one
was more surprised than myself. Captured the
bird in my skirt and brought him home. From
the first he ate bread and meat thrown to him.
Later, he fed from my hand, and after that I
allowed him to run about the yard. On the fourth
day of his freedom, he ruthlessly murdered four
just-hatched downy ducklings. I remonstrated
with him tearfully, but reframed from punishing
him because he dodged me round a briar, and I
couldn’t catch him. Next day I kept a watchful
eye on him, but he found an opportunity to
murder the rest of the ducklings. All went well
after that until a proud hen brought forth thirteen
prize Orpington chicks. The butcher-bird had
shown himself very friendly and affectionate
since his last big offence, climbing to my
shoulder and burying his beak in my hair,
and I had grown to trust him. A disturb-
ance in the poultry yard caused me to run
out in haste. The hen was flying wildly at the
butcher bird, and nine prize chicks lay dead on
the ground. When I had spent my anger on the
cat, his nibs peeped cautiously round the door
making soft overtures, but refused to let me catch
him. That night an angry man put an end to
him, but not before he had killed a much-loved
canary, let out for his daily fly round the dining
room. Apart from this, I don’t know anything
about the habits of the butcher bird in captivity,
or New South Wales, or anywhere else.
9 * 9 *
“Fortunately,” said the S.M. Herald
the other day, talking of the threatened shortage
of water at Broken Hill and the possibility of
mines having to close down—“fortunately, we
are just now on the verge of the winter season,
and this particular difficulty will probably be
removed when the usual rains come.” There are
a lot of things the coastal man still doesn’t know
about the innards of his country. Back in the
mulga, where Broken Hill is, there are no “ usual
rains.” Purnamoota, just outside Broken Hill —
a settlement older than Broken Hill—has the
hoariest rain records for that district. In 1894
December was the wettest month ; in 1895, Janu-
ary ; 1896, November; 1897, January; 1898,
June; 1899, June ; 1909, January ; 1901, August;
1902, December; 1903, December; 1904, July;
1905, June;_ 1906, June. Over a long stretch of
years November, March, May and July have
given the least moisture, if all the moisture was
stood on end; and if even that happened, and G.
Reid’s dog were thrown into it, it wouldn’t be
enough to wet him all over. Most of the rains
seem to be purely accidental, and the accident is
liable to happen at any time, though, as the
average for 13 years past is only 7.7 in., the acci-
dent is far more liable not to happen at all.
• * * *
“ Paul Cupid ” : I notice that many parts
of N.S.W., are complaining of a grasshopper
plague. There appear to be (as is the case with
humans) two classes of ’hopper—a local, stationary
class, and a floating or rather flying population.
These latter always fly towards one particular
point of the compass, not delaying long en route
even for the most tempting vegetation, though
they sample it all as they proceed. Their flights
seem to take place at one particular time of the
year, generally in March. These two conclusions
point to the supposition that the travellers are
troubled with a cargo of eggs, and are hurrying to
a suitable breeding ground. For the benefit of
embryo naturalists, it may be explained that the
male grasshopper doesn’t lay eggs, but he hurries
along with his female relatives just the same, to be
present when the business is done. The stationary
’hoppers lay their eggs in March or April in their
own locality. They select a bare patch of ground,
which, when they have finished laying, looks as
if it had been broken up with some pronged
instrument. The process of depositing the eggs is
interesting to observe. The female who is doing
all the work is in the centre of a ring of males,
who look just as ecstatic and silly as a man talking
to his first squalling infant. Each female lays
about half a hundred eggs. When ’hopper junior
comes out of the egg, he has to shed his skin, which
he does with the ease of a hardened politician,
before he can fly.
Did you ever see a petroleum well ? The
workers at these wells never have consumption or
any form of lung trouble. If they catch cold they
take liberal doses of crude petroleum, and it never
fails to cure them. Angier’s Emulsion is specially
purified crude petroleum combined with the
hypophosphites. There is nothing equal to it for
coughs and lung affections, and it is pleasant to
take. In three sizes, of all chemists.*
“ Jostler”: I hereby enter the Central
Queensland frog for the prize for voracity. Frogs
and grasshoppers are as plentiful up here as the
want of money in Philp’s deficit. I tried an ex-
periment at feeding a frog last night. Froggy
ate no less than 11 grasshoppers within an hour
and a half, the smallest hopper being an inch and
a quarter long, and the largest two inches.
Froggy thus ate over 16 inches of grasshopper,
and as I see him looking well at his accustomed
camp near the water-bag, it is evident his snack
did him no harm. He is just now consuming a
large cockroach by way of counter-lunch.
LUMPY ON FEEDING INFANTS.
L UMPY: “You gib it that pfeller arreroot, Mittah Cummins?”
STOREKEPER: “ Arrowroot? What for? By the way, I hear I've got to congratulate you,
Lumpy. Polly all right ?”
LUMPY : “ My word. I got 'im boy — son, too, by George. Must git 'im some arrercot. Beef
too heavy altogether—baal sit on ’im chest.”
“Catbird”: Be “F.B.’s” inquiry (B.
14/3/’O7) as to how a person dies from snake-bite.
My experience is that different snake-bites pro-
duce different effects on different animals. . A
nigger I knew in Queensland was bitten by a
death-adder. He caught the adder and tore it in
two pieces, and then gave up the ghost forthwith
without making a remark. A woman, bitten by
a black snake, took 24 hours to die. Then I once
saw a horse bitten by a tiger-snake about six in
the evening. At 12 o’clock next day the victim
started to bleed from ears, eyes, nose, and mouth.
This lasted till evening, when it gave three leaps
in the air and perished. A calf, bitten by a
tiger-snake, bellowed, and ran amok wildly for
two hours, and then dropped, never to run again,
amok or otherwise. Have seen a dog bitten
inside a minute by a brown snake and a black
snake, and it died in about 15 minutes.
# ► * *
“Broncho George”: Of the vitality of
the bovine many instances have been recorded.
Here is one more. Some six years ago a mob of
cattle were purchased at Newcastle Waters,
Northern Territory, and driven to Annandale
station, Queensland, a distance of over 900 miles.
Amongst the animals was a lively young steer
that attracted much attention by its great
objection to associate with the other cattle.
It was frivolous, but an instinctive her-
mit. After some four years, during which
time the beast successfully eluded all efforts to
make him communicate with man, he. was shot for
beef purposes. On dressing the carcase Mr.
Gaffney, the manager of Annandale,' was surprised
to discover in the paunch the head of a native
spear, made of metal, tempered at one end, and
about 11 Jin. long by 2£in. wide. No such weapon
is used in Annandale district, but it is well known
among the Northern Territory natives, so the
animal must have carried it from Newcastle
Waters, and lived with the implement in its
paunch for over six years. Examination of the
hide revealed what appeared to be an old cut, so
presumably the frisky animal hadn’t swallowed
the spear-head, but had been attacked from
outside.
S. Australia, cursed with imported spar-
rows, and starlings, and foxes, not to mention
numerous things with roots, has learned its
lesson. Following on a wave of paragraphs that
swept lately through Australian newspaper
offices concerning “ African rabbit-eating ants,”
a consignment of ants’ eggs from Russia arrived at
Pt. Adelaide; but before they could be landed
the practical Premier Price had rushed through a
Gazette notice declaring ants, in or out of the
shell, prohibited immigrants. He didn’t have
any faith in the capacity of any ant —African or
Russian—to distinguish lamb from rabbit.
“ Draillibor ” : I was once war correspon-
dent to an uncommon campaign. It was on
Rawdon Vale station (N.S.W.), and the row was
between sugar ants and green-head ants. The
fight lasted three days. Just before sundown each
day active operations would cease, and each side
would spend some considerable time in carrying
its dead about four yards back from the fighting-
line. The third day ended the war. At about
noon delegates from the two armies met in con-
sultation, and, after much debate, peace was
signed. I think the sugar ants paid an indemnity
to the green-heads. Certainly, che sugar ants
were the weaker force, and had the heavier losses,
and it was they who first held up the leg of amity,
and suggested peace.
* * * *
“ Agricola ” wants to know :
The eaglehawk does not display any great amount of
brain power in his chase after rabbits. The other day I
saw one skimming along after a rabbit, which was shift-
ing grass in its hurry to reach a hollow log about 75yds.
away. Just as things began to get interesting, bunny
side-stepped to the extent of about 6ft., and the hawk,
unable to turn so close to the ground, whizzed by. Before
it could get under way again it had to rise 20ft. in the
air, and all the while bunny was putting in big licks for
the coveted log. The bird came swooping down again,
and, as before, bunny side-stepped just as its claws were
almost parting his fur. Three times this happened before
bunny got within dashing distance, and then he dived
into the hollow with neatness and despatch. The eagle
whirled round a bit, and then roosted on the log
and invited bunny to come out walking again ; but that
cautious animal, with the tip of his nose just showing
at the entrance, remarked that the weather was too
warm for such violent exercise. I have seen eagles
several times putting rabbits through their sprints in
like manner, but never with any more satisfactory re-
sult. Now, I want to know how on earth do they catch
them, for they may often be seen flying away with hapless
rabbits in their talons.
A common explanation is that on sunny days the
fleeing rabbit knows when to dodge by watching
the bird’s shadow, and that on dull days, when
the bird casts no perceptible shadow, the rabbit
is a lost bunny. At least a bushman of long
standing once propounded that view of the case
in The Bulletin.
BEN DACRE THE BAKER!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ben Dacre
The baker
Loved Emily Acre,
But thought it was horribly cross of her
To make a
Poor Quaker
And rich undertaker
Bewitched with the glamor and gloss of her !
No faker,
Wiseacre,
Or customer-shaker
(As rivals would often, of course, aver !)
Was Dacre
The baker;
And macaroon-maker
But rather a flourj philosopher 1
Poor Dacre
The baker!
His heart was an acher 1
He thought it unspeakably gross of her 1
Horse-breaker
Bill Blake (a
Corangamite Laker)
Said : “ Why do you make such a joss of her?
Oh Dacre
Forsake her 1
Or wake her
And shake her I
’Twould break her
Or make her,
And show you were born to be boss of her 1 ”
But Dacre
The baker
Grew fond of “ Jamaica I ”
And went to the devil for loss of her 1
N.B.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


AUSTRALIAN.
ć
Australian Diamonds.
Australian Opals.
Australian Gold.
Australian Workmen.
An Australian Firm.
WE are producing some exquisite Jewellery made from
AUSTRALIAN JEWELS and GOLD.
THE EFFECTS are Wondrously Beautiful.
The prices—being for local products—are much lower
than the imported. The Pendant Brooch we illustrate
would be 50 per cent, higher in imported jewels.
Four Opals, 15 Selected Diamonds, £l4.
Length If inches.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House
► in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
THE BLAOKBUTT.
[For Thu Bulletin.]
I know a tree that grows within a valley,
Yet rears his lordly height
Above the hills, and soars majestically
Into the starry night.
He sways with grand complaisance to the breezes,
Acknowledging their presence, an he pleases.
His huge dark butt is gnarled and buttressed greatly;
His bole is round and white ;
A hundred feet of bulk it tapers straightly
Into the upper light,
Before a massive limb goes upward, sharing
The lofty crown of foliage he is bearing.
Great claws of roots, with twists and turns and bosses,
Clutch firm the nether mould,
With sheltered coigns where clinging ferns and mosses
Of ancient right take hold ;
And deeper down he binds the rocks together
To serve as ballast in the windy weather.
Up there, high overhead, he holds communion,
In rustling, dizzy heights,
With wing’d wayfarers, making gay reunion
After prodigious flights.
He gives them hostel—aye, and right good housing;
And glories in their garrulous carousing.
So grand a tree, whose roots are in a valley,
Yet in the clouds his head ;
Who bears his greatness most majestically,
With huge high branches spread,
I know—and stand in awe before the giant,
So high and strong, so mighty, yet so pliant.
VI0 , C. G. A. Oolles.
* * * *
“ Yabba ’’ : Did not know how to spell
padymelon (paddymelon, pademellon, pady-
mellon, paddymellon) correctly, so consulted
Chambers’ “Twentieth Century Dictionary.”
Found it thus: “Pademelon, a brush kangaroo
or whallabee.” Now, what is the correct way to
spell “pademelon”?
* • * *
“ Atlang’s ” narrative : —
Yes, I was a young fellow of 25 then. It was down a
Tilpaninnie, in S. Australia. I had a billet in the flour
mill, and I was badly mashed on Brown’s daughter.
Brown had a farm, and was well off. The girl seemed
willing, too, but I hadn’t been able to collect pluck
enough to pop the question. I was shy with women.
Well, one evening I was sitting with her when I noticed
two blaekfellows’ waddies which ornamented the mantel-
piece, and they set me talking. “ I was reading, the
other day,” I said, “ of a marriage custom among the
Australian niggers. It seems that when a young man
decides to marry he gives chase to the girl, and, when he
catches her, he knocks her down with his waddy. Thence-
forward she is his woman.”
Say, do you believe that a person’s thoughts can be so
clearly shown by the eyes as to be easily read by another?
I did—then. I’m not so sure now ! The queer laugh
that greeted my account of native marriages caused me
to look in her face, and in her eyes, as they glanced first
at me and then at the waddies, I read a challenge: She
gave me no chance to doubt, for, repeating her queer
little laugh, she darted through the open doorway and
across the verandah into the garden. It was full moon,
and it needed not her backward glance to make me enter
into the spirit of her mood. Collaring one of the
waddies, I sprang after her just as she reached the gate
leading into the orchard. The chase didn’t last long ;
perhaps she didn’t want it to. When I was close behind
her, she suddenly crouched, in pretended fear of the
blow. Now, I never could hit a woman hard enough to
hurt her —even in fun—so I completed my proposal of
marriage by giving her a slight tap with the waddy on
the side of the head. Then I laughed, and stooped to
lift her up, but she was too quick for me. She sprang to
her feet, and faced round, and waved me off. With eyes
that flashed scornfully she passed by, and I was too
astonished to move. Then, when she had put a short
distance between us, she turned and said: “Oh, you
coward 1 you ninny l I knew you would be afraid to hit
me hard.”
And then she went in and banged the door—hard.
A WISE PRECAUTION.
“ What's the knot in the horse's tail for, Bill?”
“ Tha’s so’s he won' fer get t' take me ’ome.”
“ Janor ” : What about the road-side
shanties as the “ biggest curse out back” ? Many
a man has been outed by one drink at these dens,
and he who is thus doped or hocussed (“locust ”
the busbies mostly call it) is never again as good
a man, physically or mentally, as he was before
the dose. ’Tis to be regretted that so few workers
realise the true inwardness of this drink biz. The
other fellow—the employer—does all the time. A
few years ago, Woolenough, hastily called to Fog-
land, left the management of the station to his
son. One of the first matters he had to deal with
was the leasing of a piece of land near the home-
stead as a site for a projected hotel. He was a
decent chap in spite of his Tory upbringing, and
he turned the proposal down, much to the disgust
of the would-be Bung, who had almost completed
the business with Woolenough. In due course
the squatter returned, and the first thing he
wanted to know was why the devil the hotel was
not up. Son explained. Father blew up. “Why,
you dashed fool,” said he, “don’t you see that
when we have this pub within a mile of the station
we’ll always have plenty of men about, and we’ll
get ’em at our own price ?” The pub went up.
• * * *
When coughs and colds disturb the house,
When sick kids worry mater,
And sneezing through the night annoys
The tired and weary pater,
You’ll hear him toss and say to nia,
“ To-morrow you procure
The stuff to cure those sneezing kids,
That’s Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
AGIN THE LAW.
ITINERANT HERBALIST: “I kin read the cause of all yer troubles in yer face —an a shillin'
box of my magic pills will banish it for ever.”
TENANT COCKY: “ Hivins, man, d'yez want me ter pison me landlord?”
The man who alleges this encloses his own,
or someone else’s, card as evidence of good faith: —
Some 16 years ago, on the Tasmanian east coast, the
Seamander bridge was washed away in a big flood, and
the Government fixed up a temporary punt. The custom
was to drive the four horses and the coach on to the punt
and pull at a wire rope. A good fresh was running when
I was there, and the rope parted and left us drifting
towards the ocean some hundred yards away. For-
tunately the punt grounded on a sand spit. The driver,
one Avery, told of a previous experience of the kind, but
on this occasion he went out some miles to sea, and was
there picked up by a coastal steamer without losing a
horse. The mate was on the bridge at the time, and
when he sighted the punt he sent a sailor down to the
captain to report a coach and four horses on the port
bow. Said sailor was immediately ordered into irons for
being drunk and disrespectful and a dangerous lunatic.
It being a bright moonlight night the captain presently
saw how things were, and took everything on board in-
eluding the driver, who had stuck to the reins right
through.
• • * *
The bad type of Australian sundowner,
for so many years spoken, written, and lied
about, is now a scarce bird indeed. The Murrum-
bidgee whaler is practically extinct, and only a
very rare speci-
men whales for-
lornly on the
ground where
the abundant
cetacean used to
be. This unfor-
tunate state of
affairs is due, the
writer is dis-
creditably in-
formed, to rab-
bits. In olden
days the whaler
presented his
empty wallet
with the assur-
ance that it
would be filled,
but in these
times the old
chap is dead
certain to be in-
vited “to do a
bit of trappin’
for tucker and
what you can
make, traps
thrown in.” Now
the swaggie who
is physically in-
capable of trapping the rabbit is also beyond
bluey-humping, so he has no middle course,
and must either starve or trap. The thorn in
the flesh with our modern whaler is that there
were no bunnies to be trapped in the palmy
days of his ancestors. Unless the pestilent
animal is obliterated, whalin’ will be reckoned
with the industries of the past.
* * *>r *
“ Backblox ” : lie “Jimmie Pannikin”
(4/4/’O7), on Outback coach-travelling. Have
often travelled on Tibooburra read, from dusty
Broken Hill. Had an extra lively team in once,
and the leaders thought it a great joke to kick
over the traces. Tilpa Bill (the driver) calmly
requested me to “ j Ist git down an’ see if y’ can
fix ’er, will y’ ? ” Often I had j ust settled down in
the boot for a doze when, “ Gate ! Are y’ ’wake,
mate?” I opined that I was there to work my
passage, so made no objection. Another time,
met a team of camels on the road. They kept in
the middle of the track, and Bill’s talk seemed to
make the atmosphere quite hazy and sulphurous
for a while. “I dunno w’y they ever let them
flamin’ cows come inter Orstralia fer,” observed
he. “If I’d’a’ ’ad my way, I’d ’a’ blanky well
settled the blanky cusses.” Pulled up at a shanty,
and inquired for a meal. Two lumps of goat-
steak, a piece of stale bread and a mug of tea
were bumped down in front of us in response, for
which we paid the modest sum of half-a-crown.
Was sorry to part with Bill and his conversational
gifts at sleepy Euriowie.
*• * * *
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
declared free from injurious substances by
Government chemists. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
One Hair, a selector from Wagga (N.S. W.),
has just finished wrestling with a problem that
started with 3d. and ended with disaster. A crowd
of applicants applied for a block of land near
Wagga. Hair’s application was sifted out as the
most deserving, and he got the land. Whereupon
a dissatisfied rival moved the law to eject Hair,
on the ground that Hair, when posting his appli-
cation to the State lands agent, did not register
his letter, but sent it by ordinary post. The
objector" quoted regulation 356 to the Law,
and waited results. Regulation 356 sets
out that all applications for land must be
lodged in person or by an accredited agent, or
they “ may be sent by registered post.” Hair took it
that “ may ” meant that the blessed thing was
optional, and that he might send by any old post,
and save the price of a long beer. The learned
judges of the Supreme Court, who finally heard
the appeal, were unanimous in saying, with costs,
that “may” meant “shall,” and added that the
fool individual who drew up 356 would have saved
a mint of trouble by writing “shall” and not
“ may.” So Hair has lost his land. Many are
the pitfalls awaiting the man who tries to go on
the dust in N.S.W.
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : David Griddle had an excel-
lent 300 acres at Hill End, a fine paddock under
crop, a promising orchard, seven good cows, and
the prospect of doing excellently with pigs. He
resolved to marry, as a cheap means of getting
assistance, and that being settled in his mind he
looked about for a suitable girl to fall in love
with, found her, and fell in love with business-
like promptness. Then he went to speak to old
“Cockatoo” Carter about it. He said: “I’m
pretty well fixed, I’m in love with Hettie, and
Hettie’s in love with me. I want to marry her.”
“ Yeh can’t,” answered Carter emphatically.
“ Can’t!” cried Davy, “and why the devil can’t
I?” “Because it ain’t Hettie’s turn,” said Carter;
“it’s Martha’s turn.” “But I don’t want Martha,”
said Griddle. “ It’s Hettie I’ve been courting.”
“That don’t matter,” answered Cockatoo
Carter stubbornly. “ Martha will overlook that.”
“But I don’t want Martha, I want Hettie,”
cried the young man. “Then you won’t get
Hettie. Hettie ain’t goin’ t’ marry out of her
turn. I’m a just man, I am,” responded the stern
parent, “and I believe in fair dealin’. ’Tain’t
fair dealin’ for Hettie t’ marry afore Martha.
Martha comes first. If you come to me askin’
for one o’ my daughters, you’ve got to take ’em in
order.” “I’ll see you hanged before I’ll marry
Martha,” snorted Griddle. Cockatoo Carter
arose and shook his forefinger impressively. “I
warn you, young man,” he said, “I warn you.
You come here askin’ fer the ’and 6’ my daughter,
’n’ you ain’t goin’t’ get out of it so easy just cause
you can’t pick’ll’ choose t’please yourself.” “Go to
the devil,” thundered Dave, and stumbled out. A
week later Griddle was up at the township, and
there learned the latest news. Instigated by her
Draconian parent, Martha Carter had commenced
proceedings against him for breach of promise.
She lost the case, and Cockatoo Carter quotes it
to this day as a shocking miscarriage of justice.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.G. : Don’t altogether sympathise with you
on that point. If The Bulletin says, as it does say, that
the man who advocates letting Asiatics into Australia
is a public enemy, and then, at a time when it might kill
his election chances, says that Watson or Deakin
favors letting Asiatics into Australia, it would
understand that it would have to prove the state-
ment or make amends. The Telegraph represented to
its readers that the Socialist was a public enemy, and then
falsely described one candidate as a Socialist. Why
shouldn’t it have to pay up ? The Bulletin doesn’t want
an amendment of the libel law which will license papers
to tell untruths Art: Don’t know for certain the
derivation of “ Spiffs,” but it seems to be a corruption of
Smiffs or Smiths—people who palm off Monkeys for
Men J.G. : In short, the cow ate Bill’s pants.
Are you sure his name was Bill? F.H.R. ;
Snow yarn just misses. It is so long
E.V.W. : Fine sentiments, but bad verse Douglas T.:
Too crude and clumsy Sandstone: Better have made
a par. of it. Your verse is lamentable W.M.M.:
Your “ poem ” makes us wish you’d fallen off the pier in
question and been comfortably drowned F.S.F.: One
appeared in The Bulletin years ago. The other also
seems familiar W. and Dab: Pis6 is just plain pug—-
any stiff clay, sometimes with straw or horsehair mixed,
built up between planks to serve as a mould ; then white-
washed or rough-cast Don: Thanks for good wishes.
Sorry your screed doesn’t suit Dixie : They have all a
commonplace prettiness, but show no spark of inspira-
tion Stanna Lea: Neat, but rather flat and unim-
pressive Camel: Agreeably simple and concise, but
the reflection is too trite Vivien C.: Joke concealed
beyond discovery E.H.W.C. (Pretoria) : Thanks. But
we reckon you have quite disposed of that slanderer. He
doesn’t need another kick.... Wang : A chestnut is some-
times illustrated because a fresh, hale, hearty picture can
carry an old joke on its back and still be vigorous and fit
for publication Jay: Horse-sense discussion off....
B.R. B.: You don’t “ shape ” well as a beginner... Pompey:
You haven’t put your material to good literary use....
J.F.D. : The humor of it is forced and "mechanical
Horace: A good idea, but your workmanship is very
rough Ivor G. : Fixed-form poems require exceptional
quality. You don’t get above mediocrity Zephyr :
Feeble in both stuff and style... .Berkely : Very good for
a first attempt. Try again Aileen : Verse-form good,
but matter too weak and conventional David G.: You
have some poetic feeling, but you don’t get off the
beaten track of cheap sentiment Pop: Your touch
lacks strength and certainty Eucalypt: It doesn’t
cry out for print.... The Mule: Both are too thin and
weak.... R. Me A.: No skill.... Adrian : “Sleep” doesn’t
fall much short of the mark... .G. O. Cole: Story some-
what crude, and the “ 10 good reasons ” gag is old. Verse
rather neat.. ..B.G. : Uncertain about a title for your
ballade"? Well, we made it “ The Ballade of the Basket.”
Brun : Humorous, but rather roughly finished Gor-
don R. : Doesn’t get near the mark N.S. : Has good
touches, but is rather feeble as a whole Ingleside :
Sorrv it doesn’t suit. The relictions are very trite
E.M.H. : The verses are quite insignificant P.W.D. :
We couldn’t do an3'thing with that.... W.C.C. : You
have no notion of verse-writing... .Ginger : “Poultry-
Farm ” would be good if it were more compact and con-
secutive Cigarette: We only want the real names of
correspondents for our private information. Can’t take
a writer’s assurance if we don’t even know who he is
Ian McAught: Don’t know what heading to put it under,
so here goes :—
Carbon: For that address write W. Mahon, Balmain
Working Men’s Institute, Darling-street, Balmain, N.S. W.
.. . James L.: Of course it is. Roughly, it provides that
the Customs may block any apparently undesirable immi-
grant and put him to a test in some European language—
failing to pass which he is barred. .A.Y.Z. : (1) Well, it's a
chestnut, which is the worst fault in a story; (2) it is
coarse, but not immoral... .W.H.P. : No, it didn’t refer
to your stammering cure E.W.E. : “Smiler” Hales
was’ on the Referee in Sydney Credo: Sorry, but
there is none discovered yet except “giving it up.”
Isolated instances of “ drink cures” succeeding are due
to the fact that the patient’s imagination is stimulated,
and with that his will-power. If you can persuade your
friend that bread pills will cure him, they probably will.
Hexham : Please send—for office use only—transla-
tions of those beautiful swear words Lantana: Can’t
afford space for a general discussion of school ideas
Ketnpton Park : “ Sportsmen ” fell at the last hurdle
W.C.C. : The quotation is from Shakspeare (“Macbeth,”
Act III.) R.J.S. : Unfortunately it is an oft-published
joke.. ..Keel : Yes, he died worth eight figures right
enough—£16 12s. lljd L.A.: A striking idea, not too
well clothed in language Gaelmohr: Spirited, but
some of it is forced and inappropriate.... Beeswax:
Sorry none of them suitable. Fear your perseverance is
thrown away... .Gordon B. : It is musical, and has some
dainty fancies, but is mostly' overstrained and artificial...
Coolibah : Too diffuse and digressive Roslyn : Pretty.
bub rather incoherent C.H.B.: The verses are not
offensive, but .von miss the point. He meant “ terrible ”
to public evil-doers —not to contributors... .Scribbler :
Not too bad, but the case hardly required stating
Know All: H. W. Stevenson did, unless J. J. Miller’s
sporting pamphlet lies, make 802 under the new rules.
It happened at Leicester Square, London, on Feb. 16,
1905, and is given as the record. John Roberts’ score, to
which you refer, was not 802, but 821, and was made at
Glasgow, Jan. 27, 1905. The reference to Spooner as a
professional was wrong, but it was a slight slip compared
to the mighty blunder you made. Just as well, before
you call other people donkeys, to get your own ears
measured—it has an enlightening effect occasionally.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
H.F.H. : All sketches submitted will be judged—if good,
paid for; if bad, destroyed unless stamps for return postage
are enclosed W.O.B. : Your two Jews look exactly like
pork butchers Albert B. : Shows some promise, but
you’ve a long way to go yet. Still you might arrive with
proper tuition.
A BUSH YARN.
O ’e rode down ter th’ river f’r a row,
With ’is billy swingin’ at 'is saddle bow.
But ’e thought ter try ter swim,—
And they looked long long fer him,
W’ere th’ waters swish th’ willows to an’ fro.
And th’ “ pleece ” they dragged th’ river with er energy
sublime,
While goburras called above ’em all th’ time ;
And in course uv time they found ’im
With th’ water-grass around ’im
Tuck’d away as if by fairies, clear o’ slime.
Then th’ coroner sat on ’im tho’ ’e was a trifle wet,
And th’ neighbors gazed upon ’im with a zest—I mind it
yet;
And this little cross beside,
States th’ date whereon ’e died,—
’Ere they left ’im with th’ angels—let us get 1


THK INJURED ONE AOAIN.
Ada Ward has burst out into a
onsla Ughb on the Rev J
I by his defence of
' ‘ S be w °nld like to know how
dai* thus attack a. defenceless
woman hke her weak self. **"
The Evangelist: “How dare you
0x attack an offensive woman I’’
It is repugnant to com-
mon sense that Such a
man as Mr. Panton should
be compulsorily turned off
the Bench on reaching
the age of 65 years.
— Argus.
The P.M.: “ Retire me!
It’s a disgrace, that’s
what it is 1 Why, I feel
myself capable of being
more intolerant and
domineering to-day than
I was thirty years ago I”
In years of surpluses the tax \
should be reduced. Surpluses
tended to make the Government
extravagant, which was a bad
thing for ' the country.—bey
Councillor Lcvien on Income-tux
The Stout Party : “ You’d better
give me your money to keep.
. I’m sure It’s nobler to be
\ poor than extravagant
FOLLOWINO
UP THE
TRAIL.
Knowing that
the smell of drink
can itself bring
about the fall of reformed drunk-
ards, some publicans adopted the
diabolical plan of throwing liquor
into the streets, so that the smell
of it might attract
men into their
hotels.
— Judkins.
LOAVES and loafino.
/ Great Britain told us beforehand that
she did not go into the Conference with
fere'ncT lmpen ' al Pre
T, cc ' , The Freetrade policy with
hich Ministers went to thecoun'try anil
the ■'lftt e T “f “ b ° U A the “ bi « loaf ' :
—dye l 1 ° af ’ m,lde that ira P er>,tiv<; -
Here we ha* the happy British poor
and their share in the <■ big loaf.”
IN RE THE MISTER
CARRUTHERS.
Vic.: “ Bli’me, 1 be-
lieve yours is funnier
than mine I ”
RECKUITIO-lC
OEFICF
N/OLUrsTEET^S
ENROLLED HERE
I.YARD
The Wellington province has elected a new member in Mr. Bapni.
he Argue (admiringly). ~ _ _
The Council should be composed of broad, experienced, tolerant men,
and it would be a calamity -if it should fall a to any jbn 0
narrowness.— Also the Argus pleading for “worthy men to offer I ism ves
for the Vic. Leg. Council.
The Argus puts the test of worth* '
VARIOUS VICTORIANISMS.


THE SMUGGLERS , —(With apologies to Napier Hemy, A.R.A.)
AFTER THE PICTURE IN SYDNEY NATIONAL ART GALLERY. P.S —“HOP” HAS BROUGHT THE SMUGGLERS UP TO DATE.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY*
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
Dr. SOUTHAM’S
GOUT and
Rheumatic
PILLS
are a safe and simple remedy for the cure of
Oout, Rheumatism, Rheumatic Gout, lie
Douloureux. Sciatica, Neuralgia, Muscular
Rheumatism, Lumbago, etc. These Pills are
of Australian origin, and are .known 33 *; ne
greatest Australian discovery, since they give
immediate relief, and in many cases cure in a
few days. Sold only in bottles at l/>, 2/6, and
51- If not obtainable locally, send postal note
to the Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers
H. A. ROSE & CO., Chemists,
531 GEORGE BTREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
On June 3rd, Melbourne’s Police Magis-
trate Joseph Anderson Panton will enter his 77th
year. Then he is to retire. He came to Aus-
tralia in 1850, and in 1852 was appointed
Commissioner of Crown Lands and Gold Fields
Commissioner at Bendigo. His first police
magistracy was at Heidelberg; then he was at
Geelong, and finally at Melbourne.
Bishop Langley, of Bendigo, well-known
in Sydney as Archdeacon Langley, once
MR. C. H. HANNELL,
the father of the New-
cattle Jockey Club.
Mr. O. H. Hannell, who has
held the position of judge to
the Newcastle Jockey Club
since 1877, has tendered his
resignation on the ground of
Jailing eyesight.
negotiated an emin-
ently successful
financial transac-
tion. Probably
his early train-
ing among the
fleshpots of the
Bank of Aus-
tralasia was
partly re-
sponsible.
Bishop Bar-
ker, of Syd-
ney, was in
pecuniary
doldrums
about thirty
years ago,
and consulted
his secretary,
Mr. Langley,
on the matter.
And Langley
went forth
like a ravening
lion, and raised
a church build-
ings fund of
£10,000. This
was lent out in
large or small
sums to needy
churches, on strict
business principles
and with a due re-
gard to the security.
The fund is still in
existence, but it has
been lent and re-lent
and recovered until
the total issued
amounts now to over
£60,000.
The Melbourne
Law Students’ So-
ciety has elected Ah
Xett as its president for the ensuing year.
Ah is the youthful Mongolian lawyer or China-
man One who smokes big cigars in Collins-
street after lunch, and hangs out in Selborne
Chambers, where are also Woolf and Jacobs and
Agg and Box, and scores of other limbs of the law.
That rather stormy Presbyterian parson,
the Rev. W. Frackelton, of Queensland, has had
his certificate of sky-pilotage suspended by the
Marine Board of the Church —that is, the General
Assembly—for six months. What worries The
Bulletin is that it can’t find out whether the
gentleman had steered badly and run his church
aground, or whether he had overloaded his
tabernacle so that the Plimsoll mark was
submerged.
Heart disease removed W. M. Bolt, a
Maoriland M.L.C., the other day. A curious
thing about this particular democrat was that,
although he was ear-deep in learning, he was con-
tent to be storeman for a Christchurch firm for 30
years. His useful fad was co-operative settle-
ment and co-operation in labor affairs generally.
He wrote extensively on labor matters, and his
speeches in the Uppah Chamber showed that he
had been wrapt in thought. His real usefulness
as an apostle of co-operation came to an end in
1891, the year Seddon spiked his gun with the
Council bauble, and put him where the old men
pay no heed to the voice of remonstrance.
ThelateR. W. Holmes,
a Gent One, who left £26,500
to Ballarat charities, worked
his way out to Australia on
the ship Bella in 1855.
In 1857 he was stone-
breaking in Ballarat,
and, later on, became a
road-contractor. After
he commenced practice
as a lawyer, he married
a barmaid ; and, as
the Gentleman One
industry wasn’t re-
munerative just then,
the little woman
waded in bravely in
the cow and chookey
industry, and help-
ed to keep the pot
at a temperature
of 212 degrees.
Years ago, Mr.
Holmes founded
the legal firm of
Holmes and Salter,
and, when he died, he
was the oldest practising
solicitor in Ballarat.
When Harry Levien first
entered N.S.W. Parliament the
Legislative Assembly consisted of
103 members. That was in December, 1880. Of
that 103 only two members hold seats in the
Assembly to-day, Levien and J. H. Young, 101
having gone or been sent or taken elsewhere.
Levien, though Father of the House, is still com-
paratively young—not yet 56.
Premier Price is working and worrying
too much in his fight against the S.A. Council
majority (thirteen of them rule the country—the
unlucky number again !), and he is looking fagged
and ill. Yet he still throws himself into the tight
with all the enthusiasm of a zealot, and there is
the Brisbane Premiers’ Conference and a heavy
Parliamentary session just in front of him.
Alfred Deakin, as was expected, refused
to take even the title of Privy Councillor. A
Privy Councillor nowadays doesn’t give coun-
sel privily or otherwise; the two letters are
mere frill, devised to enable the wearer to
secure precedence and be called “ flight Hon,”
and Deakin despises such tricks. For such an
affable man, Deakin is quite firm to the titles
hawker who comes round with a barrow of
“ distinctions.”
Justice Simpson (N.S.W.) complains of the
limited number of J udges and their overwork. The
remedy does not consist in appointing additional
J udges, but in retiring aged ones who are past
active service, and appointing younger men. Of
the seven N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges, three
are over 70. One is 77, another 73, and a third,
whose age is not ascertainable, was admitted to
the Bar in 1858, which should bring him over the
allotted span.
Audit Commissioner Cooke, who has just
died in Adelaide after 25 years’ service, was the
most ponderous official person in the State. He
was an able, painstaking and conscientious man,
but few ever understood either what he said or
what he wrote. He was diffuse and involved
always, and had a perfect genius for complicating
an explanation. He was a most valuable financial
watchdog, but ordinary people had to look up his
bark in a dictionary before they could get the
hang of it.
Nugent Robertson, the “ Prudent Federa-
tionist,” who was about the bottom of the N.S.W.
Federal Convention poll in the long ago, still
hurries after his grievance against the Balmain
New Ferry Co. It was something about a penny,
and a turnstile that didn’t revolve with sufficient
suddenness, and an angry and detained barrister.
The enraged legal gentleman, and the penny, and
the grievance have already been ail through the
N.S.W. Courts, and are now going to the Privy
Council in London. A wiser man would have
broken the company’s window or blackened the
eye of a director, and let it pass at that.
Alan Gr. Pendleton, S. Australia’s sole
Railway Commissioner, has his 70th birthday this
month; and the S. Australian Law Department
is turning up its books to see whether the
Septuagenarian Act applies to him. If it does,
he can only remain where he is from year to year
by special resolution of the Government. Just at
present the Government would pass that resolu-
tion promptly ; for it isn’t often that a S.A.
Railway Commissioner has helped a S.A. Govern-
ment to make a surplus of a quarter of a million,
as this year’s will be.
“F.C.”: Melbourne Age is responsible
for the statement that the Peerewur Estate,
which once ran from Bacchus Marsh to Bungaree,
and the last portion of which was lately cut up,
was “owned by the late Mr. Bacchus, who gave
his name to Bacchus Marsh.” I always thought
that explorer Sturt named the physical features
of that locality after the tamer of Bucephalus and
his belongings—Mount Alexander ; Macedo’n, his
kingdom; Campaspe, his mistress; Bacchus, his
god; etc. Was there really a Mister Bacchus?
if so, who was he ?
A most respectable Victorian lawyer who
died recently left among his effects quite a multi-
tude of photos, of nude girls—all stout girls. He
never showed them to anyone. He never told
nude stories, and he never rioted with the boys,
and he was never known to pursue the barmaid or
Tottie Fewduds of the chorus. In fact he was a
cold, silent, buttoned-up man whose apparent
morality was something terrible.
N.S.W. Premier Carruthers, the other
day, cited a few of the graduates of Sydney
University:—
The first Prime Minister of the Commonwealth was a
Sydney University graduate. So were the former Pre-
mier of Queensland, and the present Chief Justice of that
State. Two of the University professors in South Aus-
tralia were from N.S.W., and in three of the States the
men who drafted the laws for the consideration of the
Parliaments were Sydney graduates. One was professor
of anatomy at Cairo, another professor of Psychics in
India, and a third lecturer in the Northampton Institute
Technical College, London. The engineer-in-charge of
the underground electric railway in London—no small
concern—was a graduate, and the son of a leading official
in this State. In Korea, a very outlandish place, the son
of his old chief at the Sydney Grammar School was in
charge of some very important mines. When the
Government of Siam chose an officer to take a leading
position in its railway service, it was a Sydney graduate
who got the job.
Meanwhile N.S.W. imports Johnson.
“These men of Angier’s, let us hear them
speak,” King John, Act II, Scene I. Follow the
immortal bard’s advice and hear what we have to
say about the best lung remedy in the world,
Angier’s Emulsion. 4d. for postage to the Angier
Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack-street, Sydney,
will bring you a free sample and a descriptive
booklet.*
DISCOURAGING ART.
PERIPATETIC GENIUS : “ Senora, I am Rollo, the
great-a artist. For the one-a week lodging in
your hotel I paint of you the-a picture
beautiful."
L ANDLADY: "Divil a bit you will. I had the
painters in three days lahst wake, ’n ’ I'm
fair sick iv the shmell iv them.”
A man who has played an extraordinary
number of parts is having a probably final look-in
at Australia. R. A. Tarlton started life in a
London bank, and then thought he had a “ call ”
to convert the heathen of Tasmania. But Tas-
mania apparently wasn’t as heathen as he thought,
so after a few years he passed on to S. Australia
and '.started money-grubbing—got in with the
Wills firm, had a finger in promoting the Bank of
Adelaide, and dabbled in squatting. Then the
energetic little red man —more like Zeal in
manner and appearance than any other Australian
public person—plumped for the Commercial Bank
of S. Aus. That was a pious institution, and an
ex-Rev., who had become M.L.0., did well for a
chairman. Then came the smash, and R. A. T.
crawled out to S’Africa, where J ohannesburg was
just being first mentioned. He made heaps of
money again, and got into so good a position that
at the start of the Transvaal trouble he was chair-
man of the “Australian Committee.” Now, at
about 78, he looks in again at Adelaide, where
he won’t find much of the smell of the old Com-
mercial left.
Dr. J. H. Zillmann, once a man of some
tonnage in the Anglican Church, but of recent
times a “ marrying parson” in Sydney, was some
months ago dropped by the Registrar-General off
the list of parsons authorised to perform the
wedding ceremony, and the Supreme Court has
refused to order his re-instatement. The idea of
N.S.W. law is that a parson should show at least
a certain proportion of preach to so much mar-
riage. If there is more than the specified amount
of preach it is pleased, but there musn’t be less
than the minimum of preach. The Rev. Zillmann
married 283 couples during the latter half of 1906,
and the Registrar-General held that there wasn’t
sufficient expounding to cover all this. He set
down Dr. Zillmann as a plain, ordinary, “marry-
ing parson,” and knocked him out. The reverend
is said to have been in the middle of a marriage
ceremony (he promptly broke it off) on January
31, when he received the belated news that he had
been abolished in that capacity at the end of the
previous month, and if that yarn is true the
belatedness of the news is very remarkable and
somewhat embarrassing. The State would save
itself much worry if it made marriage a civil con-
tract which must, in every case, be performed be-
fore a State official, and left the parties to have
whatever religious ceremony they pleased after-
wards. Then this question about an intolerable
amount of marriage to a mere ha’porth of preach
need not come up, and the marriage shop could be
let as a green-grocery.
It is pretty hard to escape from the Aus-
tralian and Maorilander. Malcolm M’Daren, for
some years mining geologist to the Government
of India, and himself a Maorilander, exploring
on the Irrawaddi River, found a party from
Otago running a dredge right upon the Burmese
frontier, within 20 miles of the hostile Kackin
country; and he heard of another lot of Maori-
landers who had been working in the northern
Shan States, in a place so remote that to get
their machinery there they had
to cut and make a 40-
mile road.
THE ROLL CALL.
The Conference will consolidate and strengthen my
Empire.— The King, God save him!
“ You touch us — that's all !”
Five mendicant missionaries, whose Asiatic
tongues can’t get round the education test, were
held up in Fremantle last week. Here is the list
of them : Our old friend Goliath Joseph, G. EliaS,
G. Nicholas, Deacon Jacob, Deacon Simon. They
have knocked at the door and it has not been
opened, so they are sailing again. One paper
describes Goliath, whom the Foreign Trade
press tried to elevate into a Six Hatters or Petriana
myth:—
Joseph Goliath is a very different man from the neat
and cleanly-garbed foreigner who passed through the
port some four weeks ago. Unshaven, shivering, and
with a thick coat pressed up against his ears, and an un-
clerical looking cap on his head, he looks misery personi-
fied.
Apparently, Goliath left off washing when he was
refused admission.
The quickest way to get rid of a cold is to
take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For sale
everywhere. Is. 6d.*
The fact that he couldn’t be in two places
at once did W. P. Crick a good turn last week,
when he was haled before a magistrate on a charge
of discharging firearms in a public street. The
late charge of conspiracy took over a month to
decide, and Crick naturally couldn’t get away to
be harassed at the Police Court. When he did
appear, over a month had elapsed since the date
of the offence, and the magistrate dismissed the
information as being out of date.
About a deceased veteran :
Captain William Jackson Barry was the most picturesque
liar in Australasia, but he saw stirring times, for all that.
On goldfields in Australia, California, and M.L., running
horses to India, whaling, in shipwrecks, amongst bush-
rangers, in the navy (first Chow-British war), sheep-
farming, selling saveloys in the streets, and in other
occupations he lived up to the theory of the strenuous
life. Barry was once Mayor of Cromwell (M.L.), and
during his term he paid a visit to Dunedin. His visit was
prolonged, to the detriment of his municipal duties, and
also to the great red-painting of Dunedin. Cromwell
Council met and passed a vote of censure. The outrage
brought Barry back in haste, and next meeting of the
local body was sudden. The Captain arrived late and
placed his back to the closed door. “Now !” he roared.
“ Who was the blankety blank who proposed that resolu-
tion ?” The motion was rescinded.
By a man who worked with him :
Henry Hudson, N.S.W. Clyde Engineering Co.’s general
manager, did a lot in the way of pushing along Australian
industry before he died at Sydney, the other day, aged
71. He was born in London, and came to Maorilandwith
his parents in 1839. A few years later the family arrived
in Sydney, and Henry became an apprentice to the
joinery trade. His first jobs were on the erec-
tion ‘of the first part of Sydney University,
and at St. Andrew’s Cathedral, where his father
was in charge under the late Colonial Archi-
tect Blackett. The foundation of the Clyde Co.
was unobtrusively laid down in 1860, when the Hudsons
started small joinery works at Redfern. In 1879 they got
their first Government contract for railway rolling stock.
In 1881 they turned out the first “ American ” suburban
cars used on N.S.W. railways. They built Sydney
Coast Hospital, and did some other odd jobs. In
the drought of ’B4, when the shrinkage of Botany
swamps threatened a water famine, Henry was
the man who said “ lec there be wet”—and there
was wet. He connected Potts Hill reservoir
with the cement canals on the catchment area of
Cataract waterworks - then very incomplete with
an open, half-round iron channel, and thence
brought something like 4,000,000 gallons of water daily
to Botany watershed through 20in. pipes. About
that time the joinery concern was floated into a co.,
capital £300,000, with Henry as general manager. His
big ambition was to build locomotives, and he got his
wish. He saw the first of the engines made under the
Government contract of last year placed on the rails, but
he never saw it under steam, for he became ill the same
night, and died a couple of days later from heart failure.
ONE RESULT OF THE ALLIANCE.
The British Lord Chamberlain has prohibited perform-
ances of Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Mikado” for fear of
offending Japan.— News Item.
MOTHER BULL (to little Johnny): “Hey! You
mustn't annoy your stepbrother .”
Henry Hudson, contractor, who died at
Darling Point, Sydney, last week, aged 71 years,
commenced in the joinery business in a very
small way, in Botany-street, Redfern, about 40
years ago. The immense luck of the firm in
getting Government contracts raised the sus-
picion that it had more influence behind it than
most small joiners possess. The late “Anxious”
Cameron, Chairman of Committees, once told the
writer that he believed John Sutherland
“ Honest John ” —was a member of the firm, and
Honest John was for some years Minister for
Public Works. Henry Hudson offered himself
once for a seat in Parliament, but was defeated by
a two to one vote. He never tried again.
About an inventor :
Brennan, the torpedo man, is to lecture before the
London Royal Society this month (May) on his new mono-
railway. It is a crazy-looking affair to describe, but
Brennan knows things, and can’t be dismissed as a mere
crank. He was a humble Melbourne tradesman in the
employ of Mason and Firth, the printers, and such-like
firms, when he devised the torpedo which brought him
£lOO,OOO. Many will recall the laughter evoked in Mel-
bourne by his idea of driving a torpedo with wire reins.
He exhibited it in a forlorn way at Williamstown, and
people still laughed, yet it proved a success. Brennan
has been displaying to Sydenham Clarke (our quondam
gubernatorial friend “Chinny”) and other experts the
working model of his mono-railroad, and all agree that it
runs well. The idea seized him while travelling with his
wife, and she was half afraid he had become deranged
when she found him in a room with an immense number
of tops spinning, he having apparently, bought up
all the most expensive tops in the town. He
had been impressed with a German invention for
applying the gyroscope to stop the rolling of ships.
The gyroscope is that kind of top with tr.o rings.
Going round quickly at right angles to each other, they
keep the toy upright. Recent cablegrams mention bow
the German invention of a vast gyroscope on shipboard
keeps the vessel perpendicular, and it only pitches.
Brennan applies the idea to his mono-railroad. The
question of traction is not involved. Each carriage will
contain a gyroscope, of proper size, enclosed in a box,
and this whizzy thing, set revolving, will keep the car-
riage upright on the single rail. There are other mono-
railways, but these have the rail overhead. The wheels
travel on top of the rail, and the carriage is hung under-
neath. Brennan claims that with electricity his train,
balanced on one wheel, can scuttle along at 200 miles an
hour, and he reckons that with his method Australia s
two transcontinental railways could be built and worked
at less than the cost of one under the ordinary system.
THE CALL OF THE SCREW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Mr. Blank has been invited to accept the pastorate of
the RathdOwn-street Congregational Church, Carlton,
and has promised to give the call early consideration.—
Aob.
VIC.
Oh ! £et the call be <£oud,
That I may hear ;
£ead me ! I am not proud,
But only dear.
£et me hut hear the voice
A-calling me:
£oudly will I rejoice,
That I am free.
Free to accept the ca££
For higher screw ;
(Vouchsafe this mind to all—
To me and you.)
£et me now humbly crave—
(l am sincere)
The Carlton souls to save
For more per year.
All have their duty, £ord !
£o 1 I’ve mine own !
And, when the stipend soared,
And, when is blown
Hot air into my salary,
£ord, I rejoice
To hear from out the ga££ery
A £eading voice.
MARTIN LUTHER.


TOOLS OF TRADED
=AT=
Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices.
CUSHMAN’S
CELEBRATED CHUCKS.
3SB
No. 351.
3-Jaw Universal, with 2 Sets Jaws.
3 4 5 6 7i 9 10£ 12 15 inch.
42/6 52/6 63/6 70/- 87/6 95/- 105/- 140/- each
No. 354.
4-Jaw Universal, with 2 Sets Jaws.
3 4 5 6 7i 9 10| 12 inch.
40/- 47/6 57/6 70/- 80/- 95/- 107/6 117/6 each
4-Jaw Independent Reversible Jaws.
10
75/-
15
90/-
24 inch.
170/- each
W. F. and John Barnes’
Upright Drills.
Bench Friction Disc Drill
No. 7 Upright Drill, 15-inch Swing
£6 15s.
£l2 15s.
No. 1| Upright Drill, 22J-inch Swing,"
with Combination Lever, Automatic
Stop-Back Geared and Grand Self-
Feed
£33
Modern Machine Tools.
No. 1 Live Spindle, body lin. sq. x 4in. long, £ll2s. 6d.
No. 2 „ „ „ sq. x sJin. „ £2lls. 6d,
No. 3 „ „ „ 2 in. sq. x7in. „ £3l7s. 6d.
Made of best Cast Steel, polished all over. For use
in slide rest like an ordinary tool, but can be held in a
variety of positions. The tool is made to hold polishing,
milling or grinding wheels.
No. 0. Vertical Slide Table, 4in. sq. for 3 to 4in.
centres, £2. With vice. This useful little tool has been
designed to develop the capacity of the Slide rest, by
enabling all classes of light milling, boring or slotting,
etc., to be done on an ordinary lathe.
Compound Swivel Slide Rest, 4sin., £3 16s. This
type of Slide rest is heavy and powerful in design,
ensuring the steadiness and rigidity of the tool.
Self-Acting Hand-Shaping Machine, £9 17s. 6d.
Stroke, up 6in. Traverse, 8 in. Tools sq. Work
table, 6 in. x 8 in. Bench space, 16 in. x 7 in. Fitted
with vice and 6 tools.
Self-Acting Power-Shaping Machine, £l2 17s. 6d.
Stroke, up 6 in. Traverse, 12 in. Feed Automatic
Adjustable. Work table, Gin x Bin. Pulley takes 2in.
belt.
None but TOOLS BY
EMINENT MAKERS are
included in our Stock, all
INFERIOR GOODS being
RIGIDLY EXCLUDED,
SCREWING MACHINES.
Green River Hand Bolt Thread
Cutter and Nut Tapper,
For the Bench. Fitted with 9 sizes, f, 5-16, ff, 7-16, f, f.
| and 1 inch ; also Taps, Dies in Collets, Chuck Wrenches
(No. 20, Fig. 754),
£l4
Weight packed ready for shipment, 3cwt.
An excellent machine for Blacksmiths and all repair
shops. The gearing is thrown out when doing light work,
and when running back off finished screws, making quick
return. It holds work, both straight and crooked.
Any crooked or odd-shaped pieces can be threaded
without straightening. The spindle is hollow, and bolts of
any length can be cut. For bolts fin. and under are
rapidly done with the gears out, by the handle on the
balance wheel. For larger work the gearing multiplies the
direct force of the crank at the side of the machine between
six and sevenfold, and the arrangement is such that the Die
being run sufficiently far on the work, the gears may
instantly be thrown out and the Die whirled swiftly back
off the thread by means of the balance wheel, making
quick return.
Extra steel dogs are attached to the vice to secure large
smooth pipe which might sometimes slip into the jaws.
These are both made to cut exact Whitworth threads.
Cleveland Twist Drill Co.’s
Celebrated High-Speed Twist Drills,
for use with Drilling Machines—
Send for Price Lists,
POST FREE ON APPLICATION*
BARNES’ No, 1-J Upright Drill £33*
With Combination Lever Automatic Stop, and
grand Self-feed; weight, 9761b5.
Very strong and stiff, thoroughly well made ; high-grade
in every respect. Spindle fitted for No. 3 Morse taper ;
roller bearing for spindle thrust. POSITIVE SELF-FEED, with
four changes of feed. 22^in. swing. Height, 74 in.;
diameter of column, 6§ in.; diameter of spindle, 111-16 in. ;
vertical travel, 12 in. ; diameter of table, 18 in. ; from spindle
to table, 26 in.; diameter of large pulley in cone, 10 in.;
diameter of small pulley in cone, 4 in.; ratio of back gearing,
5£ to 1; floor space required, 52 xl9 in.; belt required 2| in.;
fast and loose pulleys, 10 x 3g in. Countershaft should make
200 revolutions per minute. Back geared. The above Drills
are fitted with quick return Lever for spindle.
HARNES’ No. 7 Upright Drill, £l2 15s
(15in. Swing)
With Combination Lever and Wheel Feed. The operator
has the choice of either. The change is made by inserting or
removing the lever. The bevel gearing is cut from the solid,
and is as nearly noiseless as it is possible for metal gearing
to be. . ~ , ,
Height, 65 in.; spindle to base, 47 in.; diameter of column,
41 in. ; diameter of spindle, 1 1-16 in. ; travel of spindle,
7 in.; hole in spindle, No. 2 Morse taper; diameter of table,
10 x 12 in.; fast and loose pulleys, 6 x 2|in.; diameter of
large pulley, 8 in. ; diameter of small pulley, 2Jm. (takes 1£
in. bolt); occupies floor space, 20 x3l in.; speed of pulley,
500 revolutions per minute; weight, 290 lb.
AntKony Hordern O. Sons,
Only Universal
Providers.
NEW PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Q
V
$
0
y
yßrandy
Ch
err
Peter F. Heering’s.
EST. 1818.
To suit the children of Israel, who might
object to vote on their Sabbath, the Vic. Govern-
ment has altered the date of the Leg. Council
election from June 1 to June 4. Now, to suit
the children of Australia, the Vic. Government
might alter the qualifications for electors and
candidates. That would matter; the other
doesn’t. For all anything matters till the quali-
fications are altered, the Government might
almost as well take the election for granted, or
postpone it till June 31st.
This is Gr. H. Reid to the daily press, a
few days ago, concerning Prime Minister
Deakin’s Preferential Trade proposals at the
Imperial Conference :—
Mr. Ramsay Macdonald, the Labor member in the
House of Commons, was perfectly correct when he said
that at the last Federal elections the talk was nearly all
about increasing Protective duties, and seldom about
Preference.
And this is G. H. Reid to the House of Reps., on
the same subject, 21st February, 1907 : —
We candidly admit that there was one feature
in the Government policy which stood out unmistakably.
There is no doubt that that issue was put clearly before
the electors, and that upon it we were defeated.
So that in any adjustment of the tariff which may be a t-
tempted we labor under no sense of treachery, no feeling
that the people have not authorised such change. The situ-
ation in regard to Preferential Trade has been cleared
considerably by the decision of the people at the last
general election. Given a Protective tariff, the Free-
trade objections, wherever t hey existed, to a system of
Preferential trade, pretty well disappear. So far as we
in Australia are concerned, we can have no possible
objection to the relaxation of fiscal bonds in favor of the
Mother country.
Just the same old Yes-No.
A youngster with a wide future before
him transpired at South Melbourne the other day.
He was a lone orphan, living with his uncle, and,
though he admitted that both uncle and aunt
treated him kindly, he averred they were heathens,
and sternly discouraged his attendance at the
Sunday-school he loved ; wherefore he had left
their abode and wandered around an unclaimed,
derelict infant, until the police took an interest in
him. The quaint honorariums swallowed this tale,
and sent him to a religious orphanage, where he
will grow up to be the founder of a new religion,
or a successful seller of “spiffs,” or an importer,
or a shining light in some other calling which
needs a well-developed inventive faculty and an
abnormal capacity for misrepresenting facts.
“ Stinking Fish ” writes :—
I wish to call attention to some Federal extravagance.
At the Emmaville (N.S.W.) post-office there is a notice
calling for tenders for firewood by weight, and I see an
odd 81b. which I consider could very well he done with-
out. I hope Carruthers will notice this with his eagle
eye, and that Haynes will > immediately call ft seeesb meet-
ing. The situation is beco mug intolerable. If this 81b.
of wood is allowed to go unchallenged, we are doomed,
and deservedly so.
Complexion Charm. — Every child is by
Nature endowed with a skin as soft in texture and
fine in grain as the petals of a peach blossom, but
to retain it beyond the years of childhood, or tore-
gain it when lost, Nature must be assisted.
Valaze affords this aid. Valaze builds up the
tissues, refines the skin and gives the complexion
that fine grained softness and transparent charm
that makes a face beautiful to look upon. It
clears away every trace of Wrinkles, Crowsfeet,
Sallowness, Freckles and Tan, and gives again to
its user the smooth rose-petal skin that was hers
in childhood. Valaze is guaranteed not to en-
courage the growth of downy hair. It is simply
a Beauty Builder—building on Nature’s lines.
3s. fid. and 6s. jar (containing three times as
much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap, as used by the famous
Court beauties of Russia and Vienna. Com-
pounded wholly from almonds and rare herbs.
Delightfully refreshing and makes the skin like
velvet. It should be used in place of other soaps
with Valaze. It is far choicer and lasts thrice as
long. 2s. cake, postage 3d.
Rusmo Hair Killer, a new preparation for
instantly removing superfluous hairs. Cannot
harm the most tender skin. Can be used at home,
leaving no after trace or blemish. 5s., or pasted
under cover 5s. 3d.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Ccre.
No matter how obstinate these distressing
blemishes have proved, this Russian cure will
dispel them. It makes the coarsest skin soft and
clear. 2s. fid. box, posted 3s.
Valaze Massage Rollers, for plumping out
and reducing the flesh, so that Wrinkles, Double
Chins, Flabby Necks, Crowsfeet, and all like un-
lovely detractions are rolled away. Price, 8s. 6d.
each ; small set, in case, 10s. fid. ; set of two, in
case, 18s. fid. ; complete set of three, 25s. Sold
by all chemists, or direct from Mlle. H.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Don’t trifle with coughs and colds. All serious throat
and lung troubles start from simple colds. Don’t trifle
with unreliable remedies —Senior’s Black Currant Balsam
is the proper remedy'. It’s Nature’s remedy for these
complaints. It does not drug a cough into sil nee as
narcotic remedies do ; it stops the cough by removingthe
cause of the cough. You certainly want coughs cured in
that way. It is pleasant to take; it is equally good for
children or adults. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is.
6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney/
“ Goutez et Compctrez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
s
“C R/V^ENETTESf,
fa
Are the Ideal Fabrics
for
§V RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 14, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
A multitude of lace with the musical name of
Argentella will be loaned to the Mayoress of Syd-
ney by Miss Rose Scott for the Exhibition of
Women’s Work. Miss Scott has a lot of lace of
divers kinds that was in her family a century ago,
and which is identifiable in books of reference on
lace just as if it were Westminster Abbey. Some
of the specimens are infants’ caps—the quaintest
things, with hand-made lace of so fine a quality that
the single thread is invisible except to good sight.
Yet the spindrifty material has endured the wash
and wear of long time. She has also her mother’s
wedding dress (the silk it is made of has long
ceased publication), and her uncle’s flowered
waistcoats—brilliant things in green, scarlet and
black brocade. It would be a good idea to have
a section at the Ex. for wedding dresses and
veils of more than fifty years ago. Amongst
Miss Scott’s collection is a wedding veil that
was truly the veil through which he could
not see the bride, and the wrong girl might
have been palmed off on him. This is very dif-
ferent from the transparent films of to-day’s
brides, when there is simply a spider web in
front of a girl.
An Australienne has come in for the bulk of
the late Cecil Rhodes’ fortune. He left it to his
eldest brother (there were seven Rhodes brothers),
who died shortly after his bigger though younger
relative. Then the huge fortune went to Captain
Ernest Rhodes, who had, in 1887, married Miss
Helen Jeffray, a Melbourne girl. He died a few
weeks ago, hence the Melbournian and her four
children take up the rich person’s burden. The
lady’s father, R. J. Jeffray, was here quite re-
cently as Commissioner for British Trade.
That particular millionaire Smith, who died re-
cently in Japan during his honeymoon, had a
near Smith relative in Sydney, a few years ago,
and this near Smith relative provided considerable
amusements and sovereigns. He used to scatter
coins amongst waiters, and would insist on paying
! the horse when he took a hansom, because it was
the horse that did the work. But he didn’t pay
the horse in oats, so the animal was not really any
“ forrarder.” Also, when he went to the theatre
ihe reserved two seats—one for himself and one
for his hat. Uncle Smith, the founder of the
ifamily, was a miser who died at a London club
on 15s. a day, leaving between five and six mil-
lions to Smiths and other relatives. (One of these
days I am going to write a learned essay on the
■origin, habits and customs of Smiths, the cause
■of Smiths, the purpose which' Smiths serve in the
■scheme of things, and the decline and fall of
Smiths.)
The baronet who ran away with the naval
lieutenant’s wife, and who now lives on a yacht
swinging at anchor on the unruffled deep in one
of our sunlit coves of peace, - has, as his family
motto, “Contented with his lot.” (The trouble
is that some people require such a lot before they
are contented.) No doubt he used to read it as
“A contented mind is a continual beast.” The
lady—she gets on and off at one of the Mosman
jetties—has wonderful frocks, which, with her
burning eyes and slender figure, are of great
interest to the ferried crowd. And it’s astonishing
how soon the serried, ferried crowd drops to a
Frisker’s identity. Upon a dav they knew her
not; cometh a cable and—“ That’s she !”
Where is the dimpled elbow of which the
novelist —especially the male novelist—is so
fond ? The fashionable sleeve publishes the
elbow in daytime in the street, as well as by
electric light in ballrooms. And for one
dimpled or soft-cushioned elbow there are
five hundred bony and “corny” ones. When
the arms are bent the dry wrinkled patch, like
the knees of a goat, is not so noticeable, but when
the arm hangs by the side, the onlooker from the
back hurts his eyes. An American writer says
that “ hard, rough elbows mean that a woman is
nervous.” Almost in the same breath she asserts
that they are made “ corny ” because they are
used as props for the head. At luncheon it is the
fashion to put your elbows on the table while you
smoke your cigarette, or just to show off your
rings. The reform treatment for elbows is to
sandpaper them, rub in cold cream, and cease.,
abusing them by making props of them.
This from a friend who is in a private hospi-
tal recovering from pneumonia : “ The matron is
about forty-five, gentle, and tired-looking. I
asked her : 4 Have you seen many persons die ? ’
: She thought for a minute, and replied : 4 Between
.300 and 400—in the general hospitals, of course,
where I was employed.’ 4 How did they take
iit? I mean did they die hard, or regretfully, or
lhow? I’m interested in the question of what
.■someone calls “holy dying.’” 4 Only two per-
sons,’said the matron, 4 both men, stand out ’in
my recollection as dying hard—not wanting to go.
All the others, whether dying consciously or
unconsciously, did not show any terror. Women
especially die very coolly.’ ‘ The exceptions,’l
asked eagerly, 4 what of them ? ’ 4 One was a youth
of twenty,’ she answered. ‘When he was told
there was no chance of his recovery he gave way to
fear and horror. For three days and nights,
without intermission, he was entreating God, the
doctors and nurses, to save him. He howled and
raved his entreaties, always asserting that he only
wanted to live long enough to right some wrong
of which he had been guilty.’ 4 Did he say what
it was?’ 4 No. And as the end approached—he
was quite conscious—he became blasphemous.
He jeeringly told the Almighty that He wasn’t
able to cure him. The lad’s mother came to see
him, and he included her in the general curse.
He died mad, with the horror of having to die.
The mother looked a rigidly-respeetable, hard-
featured woman, and she showed no emotion
whatever. Most of the nurses were unnerved by
that time.’ 4 And the other one, matron ? What
of him?’ ‘I won’t tell you of him.’ ‘Well, did
these hard-diers profess any religion?’ ‘Yes;
they both belonged to the same religion, but I
won’t tell you which.’ ‘ And she left me wonder-
ing what is the faith in which people die so hard.”
Captain Max de Bathe, well-known to Sydney-
siders as one of the most amusing, and withal
rapid, young Britishers that have struck these
parts in recent years, has married Lady Miller,
who relinquished an opulent, if not happy, home
for his sake, some twelve months ago.
Young Kelso Henderson, who was with the
Repertoire Co., is about to take himself and a
very pleasant baritone to the States. He is
fortified with letters from J.C.W., and on Friday
had a successful farewell concert.
Lady Stanley, who, as Miss Dorothy Tennant,
married explorer Stanley, has just taken a
second mate a well-known surgeon named
Curtis. The lady came to Australia in her bridal
days, and those who saw her then tell of her fine
complexion—rather cabbage-rosed as to cheeks.
Miss Winifred Purnell, who flashes an artistic
pair of hands over the ivory keyboard, gave an
attractive recital last week under Mr. Arthur
Mason’s direction, previous to her flight to Ger-
many for more study.
I found this remarkable wedding notice in the
S.M. Herald of May 11:
CONGREVE-GURNETT—UPTON.— April 28,1880, at
St. David’s, Surry Hills, by the Rev. John Douse
Langley (now Bishop of Bendigo), Captain Sir
William Augustus Congreve, Baronet (known in
the colonies as Captain Gurnett), to Lucy, eldest
daughter of Thomas Upton, of Penrith, N.S. Wales.
In this connection “Debrett’s Baronetage” for
1887 has the following :
Major-General Sir William Congreve, 2nd Baronet, the
inventor of the “ Congreve Rockets,” died in 1828, leaving
two sons (1) Sir William Augustus, 3rd Baronet, born in
1826, who was last heard of in 1860, at which time he was
in Sydney (N.S.W.), and proposed going to the Fiji
Islands. (2) Frederick William, horn 1827, formerly an
officer in the R.N., who was last heard o/at Liverpool in
1862, when he proposed going to Halifax, New Brunswick.
Daughter living of the 2nd Baronet, Isabel Christine,
horn 1828, married 1863 Sir William Comer Petheram,
Chief Justice High Court Bengal.
The Congreves seem to have been a disappearing
family. At that time one brother had been mis-
laid for 27 and the other for 25 years, and when last
heard from they both proposed going somewhere.
Mrs. Carreno, the famous pianiste, figures on
the passenger list of the Oruba as Tagliapietra.
But the other name is better for week-day use.
And the lady won’t play On Sundays.
Miss Beatrice Grimshaw, who is by way of
being another Flora Shaw, plus the creative
writer, is again in Sydney. Her book, “ Fiji and
the Cannibal Islands,” is a sparkling and infor-
mative piece of writing. Information so rarely
sparkles.
The unspeakable pea rifle was nigh adding
another tragedy to its list, last week, when it ex-
ploded and wounded Miss Daisy Windeyer, who
lives Hunter River way. The charge missed the
heart by a line or so, and for a few days the
patient’s recovery was doubtful. Mrs. Ralston,
an aunt of Miss Windeyer’s, lost a sou, some two
years ago, by the untimely discharge of a rifle.
When Miss Eva Champion (the Maoriland con-
tralto) gave a concert in Adelaide last w'eek she
had the same manager as had Ada Crossley when
en route to England for the first time. That con-
cert realised £5O. Little Eva’s brought £94 clear.
But Adelaide, and for that matter the whole
Commonwealth, has gone far in things musical
since the fair Ada left Australia in the early
’nineties. Besides, Adelaide, according to
“ Rosna,” has got a Soul, and she adds that "you
don’t know how pleasant it is to have a Soul till
you try.” How did Adelaide get its Soul? By
inheritance, in a Tatfcersall’s Sweep, or by
“trying”? Also, are Souls smuggled through
Adelaide’s Custom house along with Spirits ?
But to return to that concert. Mrs. Quesnel
went over specially to play little Eva’s accom-
paniments, and most of the women whose breath
makes the society wheel revolve blew hot upon
the enterprise. Therefore was it a success. Miss
Champion, who is getting her musical education
from the Girls’ Realm Guild, will give a sample of
her bird-like melody in Sydney before leaving for
the foreign aviary.
“ The Red Cravat,” a book, has come to keep
all other Red-named books company—from
“Under the Red Robe” to the “Red Rat’s
Daughter.” Talking of books. Mrs. Gertrude
Atherton never writes “d—n” in her novels.
She calls that form of compromise cowardice, so
she writes the whole bad bit of language. “ She
grew up in the rich-blue atmosphere of California,
and might not be so easily shocked as many.”
Australia’s atmosphere is as “rich” and “blue”
as that of California. Some of thp Australian
children whose pinnies are trimmed with real lace
swear like teamsters. One Silken Hair—a he—of
five declined to mend his language, so his adoring
mother told him he would have to leave home.
He packed a miniature swag, and went off through
the bush for a mile or so. (Pa is a country doctor.)
Mother followed, unseen. Presently a horseman,
pricking across the plain, called out: “ Little bo.y,
is this the road to Bugleywallah ? ” “ Ah,”
murmured the mother, “now I shall see my
little Reggie at his best; he is so courteous
to strangers.” She didn’t, for Silken Hair said
nothing. The horseman repeated the query, but
the small linguist strode moodily silent. At the
third time of asking the child turned on the
questioner with : “ You go to blazes. I’ve
troubles enough of my own.” And the poor
mother sat down in the “rich blue” atmosphere
to weep. Then she took Silken Hair home, and
tried to arrange that he should at least only swear
out of doors.
Hon. Gerard Collier, second son of Baron
Monkswell, is still staying in Sydney, golfing
and taking large bites of this quite perfect
blue-and-gold winter weather, and lecturing on
History at the Uni. _ Famous artist John Collier
is an uncle of our visitor. He—the artist—had the
courage to marry, as his second wife, the sister of
his first (deceased) wife, who was a daughter of the
also famous Prof. Huxley. Persons with remnant-
counter departments in their intellects like this
sort of guffermation. It does not rise to the
height of information.
An Australienne sends some theatrical notes
from London :
The death of Henry Irving left Londoners wondering
which of the leading actors might be looked upon as his
successor. It is now pretty generally accepted that the
dead actor’s mantle has descended to his son, H. 8., who
is capable of fine things. One to whom it undoubtedly
did not descend (though I expect he thinks it did) is
Beerbohm Tree—a master of make-up beyond question,
but as an actor great in.spots and commonplace in large
patches. Moreover, nowadays he lets his daughter, a
young lady of very ordinary qualifications, playiead in
parts she is quite incapable of grasping. There are points
in being the manager’s daughter !
George Alexander is a disappointment to an Australian.
Here he is the man in the sort of parts we know through
Titheradge and the late Robert Brough, though of course
they, ana Brough particularly, covered a field in versa-
tility undreamed of by Alexander. Even in his own
single line, he is not in it with either of them. To com-
pare him with them is to place a fair actor {fair, with a
patronising accent, please) alongside two artists. His
position is not unassailed, even here. Heard someone re-
mark : “ Don’t miss ‘ His House in Order ’—Pinero at his
best, and well-played. Even Alexander is good.”
Australian Oscar Asche is way up at the top of things
as an actor-manager.
There used to be a long-legged youth, named Cyril
Keightlev, who played background parts with William-
son’s dramatic cos. I fancy he figured in “ Prisoner of
Zenda ” —lengthily as to figure, but skimpily as to part.
He is coming on well here, where it is pretty difficult for
a new man to get his nose in.
People here picture us Australians as sighing in the
wilderness for a sight of their idols ; but sing “ Pooh ” to
them. They haven’t a company here to compare with
the good old Brough cos., nor the Royal Comic Opera in
the days when it numbered in its ranks Nellie Stewart,
Vi Varley, Flora Graupner, Florence Young, Elsie
Cameron, Bracy, Syd Deane, Lauri, Vernon, &c„, all at
once. There is not a musical show in London with such
a cast. As to choruses, Australians are leagues ahead.
The J. 0. Williamsons and their children
depart by the Mongolia on a visit to England,
France and America. They will be absent some
six or eight months. On Sunday night, Mr.
Williamson’s Sydney managers Goodman, Co-
ventry and Knight, Minister for Education and
Mrs. Hogue, and a few of the departing J.C.W.’s
stars and others, attended a till-we-meet-again
dinner at “Tudor.” An ex-Beaucaire and an
ex-Lady Mary Carlyle were amongst the “others ”
—Mr. Osborne and his wife. The latter is that
one-time idol, Miss Maud Jeffries. The Beaucaire
of the present, Mr. Julius Knight, and the Lady
Mary of the hour. Miss Elbert-Orton, were also
there.
Talking of Miss Maud Jeffries Osborne: She
left by the Aorangi yesterday, amidst a floral rain
from Sydney society. Her mother is in bad health,
and the visit has been a long-promised one. She
will return as soon as she may to her home on the
sheep station, and resume the hoeing of the young
pea and the boiling of hubby’s breakfast egg in
her halo.
Mrs. Arthur MacArthur, the handsome Maori-
landress who makes Dreams (of frocks) for Fair
Women, is going hence to Europe by the Mara-
thon, to put her sons to a school in the
only country where the Oxford bleat grows and
the Eton tone blossoms in the springtime.
Miss Edith Vaughan (of an Irish Vaughan clan)
came out by the Mongolia, and is staying with
Miss Rawson at “ Cranbrook’’—State Govern-
ment House.
The death of ex-Sydneysider Labertouche in
London has set the old identities talking of his
two daughters. One of them married a son of the
then Governor Loftus—that Augustus of the
Hens, who reigned at Sydney in the dark ages
between ’79 and ’B5, just before Carrington
arrived and started to take injured footballers
home in his carriage, and to help shunt trucks at
Bourke. There was so little “smartness” in Syd-
ney in those days that if a woman so much as
brightened her hair and whitened her face she did
it at great risk to her good name. The two ladies
had a swagger bonnet emporium in Bond-street—
London Bond-street, of course. The Sydney
place of that name is only a split between two
rows of grimy offices.
Everyone who calls herself Cultured is agi-
tating the grey matter of her brain cells over the
coming of Dr. David Starr Jordan, one of the
biggest authorities on education, and a man who
knows more about fishes than any other person
living. lam told that it is quite impossible to
sell him tinned sprats for sardines, as people
always do to me, and what he doesn’t know about
haddock isn’t worth naming. Marvellous are the
monographs on fishes that man has written ! He
was the force selected for the colossal work of
organising the Leland Stanford University, which
has an endowment of £4,000,000. While in Aus-
tralia “ he will lecture on methods of education
in the States.” But not on fishes. And lam so
interested in the problem why the breakfast fish is
so dear, and so often has the dull eye of suspicion
in its head.
Two ancient “horn and hide ” families were
united in marriage on May 1 at St. Philip’s,
Church Hill, by Rev. T. Langley—Harrie Bad-
gery to Nina, youngest daughter of E. E. N. Strick-
land, of Forbes. The Badgerys date over a cen-
tury back, and the Stricklands were at Bunda-
burra, near Forbes, long before gold was thought
of in New South Wales.
By the India went Mr. E. Trelawny, of the
P. and O. Co. on a trip abroad; Mr. Gordon
Wesche will fill the temporary gap made by his
absence.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
The vice-regal party is a-wandering in the wilds of the
lovely northern passages, calling at the various towns
and disturbing the crocodiles on the beaches as it goes.
Miss Scott and the little Thesigers alone inhabit Govern-
ment House, and Arthur Morgan fills the bill of Lieut.-
Governorpj'o tem. I believe he is the first of the native
horn to occupy that office.
Great is the rejoicing among the Commercial Rowing
Club men at the success of their hop on Thursday even-
ing. Thtre was, it is true, no vice-regal light to shine,
for his Excellency is now serving as a lighthouse in Whit-
sunday Passage, or thereabouts—yet things went with a
swing to the tune of a big financial and social success. Nine
young things crept forth into the cold world in the usual
regalia. The most successful fiutterers were Miss Rita
Murphy, third chick of the Hon. P., and your own Miss
Backhouse, a graceful girleen, who came under the black
and white wing of Mrs. Chas. O’Reilly.
Brisbane is excited over the probable partnership of a
gallant capting and the well-groomed daughter of an
ex-Downs squatter. Talking" of engagements brings
me to theatricals, and reminds me that little Aileen
Thompson, the very young daughter of Ear, Eye and
Throat Robert Thompson, was commandeered, at a late
hour on Saturday, to lead the White Ball ballet in
“ The Orchid,” the youthful mummeress who should have
filled the part having a pain in the lower blouse. No re-
hearsal was possible, but Aileen romped through as if
to the manner born, and brought down the house.
Oh, the charity of these Christians ! During the week
the Presbyterian Assembly suspended, for six months,
Dr. Fracltelton, a kindly old minister in charge of the
Ann-street kirk. The alleged reason was “evil beha-
vior” (not defined). The old man was unpopular among
other expounders of the same clan, who found their audi-
ences and stipends thinning, so many of their flocks pre-
ferring the doctor’s rugged harangues to the other fellow’s
“culchered” eloquence.- With the aid of a money-lender
and a few malcontents, thq virile, kindly old doctor has at
length been shot out into the street, a’nd the way those
dear, kind folk gloated over the white-haired man’s dis-
missal, at the annual river picnic of the Presbytery last
Saturday, was something too depressing for words.
There was not one grain of pity for the two old people,
who have now to turn out and begin all over again.
If there is one family in this city which can rest satisfied
in the knowledge that it has fulfilled its duty to the State,
it is the Marks clan, which has founded a little colony on
Wickham Terrace. First, there is Doctor F. 0.; next door
are stepson Doctor Espie Dods and his wife, who have
builded for themselves (with the aid of architect brother
Robin) a weird early-Ann dove-cotlet, and flourish there
with baby. Further up, next door but one, Dr. Alex.
Marks has settled down with his newly-arrived Irish
bride, and I hear that more Marks are expected.
The Queensland Turf Club comes out in a new light;
it is going to lend its energies and ground to succor the
Lady Bow'en Lying-In Hospital by means of a benefit race
meeting.
Yours Affectionately,
AKEN SHI


■
$5
it
BD. CORJEILF WRE
AFEAVTIFUJL FIGURE *
ANI> -PERFECT •
v 8
Worn t, SMART VYOHi-N
E.yeryvvkere
ey
to His Majesty King EdwardVll.
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
UPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1.000.000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Eb Co.
Lombard Chambers,
. 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
iR
The SMARTEST EFFECTS at the Literary Pageant Ball,
WERE DUE TO THE USE OF SVDNEV T ° WN HAL ’"
Warren-s FEATHERBONE
If you would like to know more about this artistic system of DRESS BONING, write for interesting
Booklet, “About Warren’s Featherbone.” Address, WARREN, Box 98, G.P.O , Sydney.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 13, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Operations are growing into something like an
epidemic, and the vice-regal folk are well in the
fashion. Dame Madden, of the sweet pale face,
has had something done to her arm with a lethal
weapon, and daughter Leslie, of the tiger-striped
hair, has been pampered in a private hospital
over one of the long list of mysteriously-named
modern operations.
Mrs. Ross-Soden, of the imposing “Mandeville
Hall,” gave something of a party on Tuesday
afternoon. It was quite above the average “At
Home” for cheerfulness, and the decorations made
one glad. In the music room (which carried all
the faintest tones of mauve and pink), Miss
Violet Mount sang, with piano and flute accom-
paniments; clever little Adrian Amadio was
the flautist—he also played soli, and at times
Miss Coultar, of Ballarat, told funny stories.
The frocking was a thing of beauty. Mrs. Ross-
Soden affected faint pastel shades that were just
the right tone for her flower-decked room—a pale
fainting tint of blue-green in the cloth of her
gown, and a pensive autumn-grey hat drooping
with pale blue plumes. Mrs. Larking displayed
dark green chiffon velvet. One Mackinnon
maiden wore almond-green velvet, and the sister
a rich, deep brown. These warm tones make a
fine effect for autumn dressing, likewise do the
wine and plum shades that are being rushed. Mrs.
Wrixon’s garment was a royal purple, and Mrs.
Vallange’s rig was in so warm a wine color that it
only saved itself from Bacchanalian effect by
being tailor-made. Pretty Ruby Madden sailed
about in suede-color cloth, with a fascinatingly
illogical hat crowned with cherries and cherry
blossom.
Doris Madden, the rather cold-shouldered cousin
of the “Cloyne” folk, is making one more fare-
well for still another trip to Vienna, where she
intends to finish her protracted piano study. The
concert was dated for Tuesday of this week.
Rupert Clarke returns with his literary
daughter, Phyllis, as well as a bunch of mum-
mers. He’s developed much parental pride
since his lass wrote a booklet. All his chums
were presented with a volume, aqd were made
the recipients of the authoress’ picture.
The twentieth century has evolved a new type
of girl for the special edification of twentieth
century men. She wouldn’t appeal to any other
male generation—she’s the typewriter girl. She’s
neat, but not gaudy. In the way of outside
coverings she runs to serge skirts, a shirt blouse,
a collar and tie, and a Dana Gibson arrangement
of what hair she possesses. (She’s not the sort of
girl who’d stoop to purchase tresses, be her own
ever so scanty.) Her face is wholesome —solid,
keen, and often comely, but she lacks to a great
extent all the suggestion of yielding, unreliant,
man-adoring femininity one likes to see peeping
through the eyes of one’s second-best girl. (To
diverge : A man never sees anything tangible in
his very best girl. He just imagines things about
her until they’re married.) To return to the lady
of the Smith-Premier. Her voice has borrowed
some of the snap and rattle of her clattering
machine ; her movements are as brusque as a
business letter. She talks in a condensed, ellipti-
cal fashion, caught from her daily task of taking
hasty notes. And she has a way of disposing of
the most sociable folk with quite commercial
callousness. She’s anomalous, but she’s nice in a
hard, healthy way, is the typewriter girl. Com-
monplace and unique at once, she can occasionally
combine the nicest qualities of one’s best and
second-best girls. That’s what makes her a vast
success, and, now and again, a co-respondent.
Mrs. Tittell Brune, the com motional actress,
also threatens to write a book. As usual it will
be about her travels—their joys, and their dis-
comforts. The world isn’t gladly expectant.
Somehow, a high degree of theatrical success
seems to distort the outlook and dislocate the
sense of proportion in most mummers’ minds.
And the mental deformity is never more obvious
than when they take up their pens and spoil
paper. Actors have instinct, not intellect; but
while there’s a willing publisher beckoning you’ll
never get them to believe it.
The Anti-Sosh Leagues, the Cits. Deform,
and the Cats’ Tea and Political Club have been
enjoying a unique and lengthy entertainment.
For seven days the dames who run the wimmen’s
association have haunted the Banco Court in
their best furs; the court fleas have found what
sable feels like for the first time. Janet Mrs.
Clarke and her ewe lambs, Mrs. Staughton and
hers, Mrs. Hughes, and a score of irate matrons,
turned up with the same regularity as judge and
counsel. And they managed to convert the
legal pomps and circumstances into a burlesque
worthy of Gilbert. Grace Watson, spinster and
defendant, gave a finished performance in the
witness-box, dramatic, but tinged occasionally
with an inappropriate suggestion of low comedy.
She showed surprising self-confidence under the
circumstances, emphasising each hit with a
glance at Janet Missus. Also, she managed to
interpolate some incoherent discourses upon the
purity of the ’ome and woman’s duty to Throne
and Empire, which had no bearing on the business
in hand, but elicited loud applause. During the
hearing of plaintiff Chomley’s cause, ordinary
procedure was suspended. The ladies indulged
in loud laughter, hissed anathema at the immobile
Chomley, chortled praise of their Grace in the
ears of his womenkind, and when one of his wit-
nesses had a heart-seizure in the box, vented
hysterical shrieks, and then audibly disbelieved
in the genuineness of the poor man’s agonies.
Plaintiff 0. sat by and heard nis probity attacked
with some grace (not of the Watson sort). He
showed no animus, and shrouded his sense of
humor in placid dignity. And his sisters and
his cousins and his aunts followed his tactful
example.
C.-J. Madden had a hard time maintaining his
judicial dignity during the scrap. He knows so
many of Miss Grace’s allies and so few of them
know anything of court etiquette. Often a rust-
ling dame would become quite excited on recog-
nising his Honor in horsehair and silk. Then
would commence Mr. Madden’s martyrdom. An
elaborate coiffure all agog, shaking jewelled ears
at him, strained this way and that, seeking his
cold, grey eye. The blank orb moving round the
court, slowly and unseeingly, seemed to pass over
the eager head. The lady who knew his Honor
would bow gushingly, and then subside into
offended quietude. His Honor, in the later days
of the hearing, never dared to look down at the
body of the court, and went home in a cab. And
half-a-dozen frocky acquaintances allege that he’s
“ just horrid.”
It was a pleasing thing, the other day, to see
pretty little Gracie Graham at one end of a
chain, and a big red dog at the other end, sprinting
-down the sedate and doctor end of Collins-street.
Gracie, who is a dog enthusiast, had made love
to this Irish setter, and was taking it along to.be
photographed. Quite a prim maiden in white,
and quite a dignified auburn dog, until a familar
motor shot by ; then a whirr of excited puppyism,
a swirl of fluffy white, and a whirlwind mixing of
honeyeolored locks and blonde dog.
The Glaciarium is being rushed, now the
winter has set in. Something very special has
arrived in the way of lady-professors froqi Lon-
don, and from the Palais de Glace in Parig.
Mrs. (or should it be Miss ?) Carreno, who is
one of the most-travelled of musical artists, has
never visited her mother’s native country—Spain.
That’s where her blue-blooded pride comes in—or,
rather, doesn't come in, because she never goes
there. The mother was a Castilian marcliesa in
her own right, and her haughty poor relations
threw up their hands in horror when she married
Carreno, a mere Republican Minister of Vene-
zuela. It was in South America that Teresa
Carreno was born, the young mother dying shortly
after the event.
There was a swirl of motors and carriages to
Spencer-street, a fluffy gushing whirl on the plat-
form, and much jovial, broad “ Ach,” also a per-
fect tornado of flowers and good-byes, and the
special express toted off the German Opera Com-
pany to its short season in Adelaide. That was
on Saturday afternoon, and quite a lonesome
crowd felt a big blank in its head for want of the
usual Saturday First Night. The opera had
become quite a habit, and the long entr’actes, with
coffeeing in foyer and Winter Gardens as a
distraction, had become a function.
Manager Williamson is bringing out an in-
teresting Edwardes Company. It opens here
somewhere in June, and will play “Blue Moon,”
“ Kitty Grey,” “ The Three Little Maids,” arid
other such frivolities. The list of the co. includes
Miles Clifton and Victor Gouries, whose names
echo faintly from London Gaiety, and tenor
Arthur Groves, known to a few people in Aus-
tralia as one of the beauty men of picture post-
cards.
Some hundreds of adoring students welcomed
Prof. Marshall Hall back to Melbourne in a
special outburst at the Conservatorium. An in-
tensely serious young man named Crowe made a
speech. The Prof, himself absolutely refused to
be drawn intoanythingsoconventional; he laughed
in his best Mephistophelian manner, and thanked
his students, and told them he would give them a
lecture instead in a week or two, when he’d had
time to simmer down. The Studenten felt that
they wanted to present the master with something
in the fulness of their joy, so, instead of a set of
egg-spoons, or an illuminated address horribly
framed, or a laurel wreath, they gave him a roll
of new red baize carpeting for the wide staircase
of the “ Con.” ! It was a glaringly original pre-
sent, and so long as the principle isn’t carried
further, and a returning hero given an acre of
asphalt for his back yard, all is well.
The hearty Prof, is as glad to be back as his
friends are to see him. The Bearded Boy—your
true artist remains a child to the end —has had
wonderful good fortune in his perfect recovery
from an illness which threatened his eyesight.
Jack Dane, of rollicking tendencies when he’s
playing, and of mining themes when he’s serious,
has struck it rich in the Bendigolden City, or
thereabouts. His particular nugget is a sweetly
pretty girl, the younger of the two very
young Hunter girls, who own an indulgent and
wealthy father, and a strikingly handsome grey-
haired Ma. The engagement, though not formally
announced, is murmured about by sweet girl
chums.
Some funny things happened during the seven
o’clock beginning of the “Walkiire” week.
Everybody had managed to be op to time for the
7.30 and 7.40 commencements of previous operas,
but the struggle for the 7 o’clock of the first night
was appalling. Motorswhizzed round the Princess’
corner, and fluffy womenkind did a Cinderella
sprint up the marble staircase. The door dosed
on the stroke of seven, and not all the cajolings
or threats of late-comers could open it one crack.
The guardian of the dress-circle entrance was a
hero. A bevy of men, with a dozen or so of
smiling, coaxing girls, used all their persuasive
arts to be allowed to just “slip in and stand at the
back ” until it was time to find their seats ; but the
janissary was inexorable. Then two very pompous
papas got angry, and explained just how much
money they had put into shares for the opera,
and spluttered about motoring 30 miles—to be
shut out like late school children. Still the door-
keeper refused quietly, and the attempt of the
infuriated late-comers to hurl their huge German
selves through the door and carry the d.c. by
assault, failed.
( JThe opera company was farewelled last week in
the scattered moments that it could spare from
“Die Walkiire.” The strain of such a big per-
formance has been intense. Miss Sara Anderson
was troubled with influenza, though no one would
guess from her wonderful performances that she
was anything but very fit. Mr. Greder, the
energetic basso and stage manager, collapsed al-
together on Wednesday, and was unable to take
his part. On Thursday and Friday he was work-
ing as enthusiastically as ever, and on the last
night gave a passionate farewell speech when
called forcibly before the curtain.
Mr. Riinger, the leading baritone of the opera
company, is the happiest of stout gentlemen just
now. His bride has just arrived from Germany
(they were married only a short time before he
left for Australia). She is a really beautiful
woman, and the members of the German clan in
Melbourne regret that she is leaving them before
they have an opportunity of getting on smiling
terms with her.
A German atmosphere added itself to the usual
crowded Tittell Brune house for the Saturday
performance of “ Leah Klesolina.” Ruby Madden
wore something very white and fluffy, with a lilac
cloth kimono cape that wound up at the peaks
with cunning silk tassels. Mr. and Mrs. Ernest
Brookes and Colonel Campbell (also quite
earnest) took care of Miss Madden. Mrs.
Brookes looked like a handsome forest nymph
in Robin Hood green, _ with snaky-green velvet
coils in her auburn hair. Lady Adeline Strick-
land turned up her aristocratic nose in the front
row, and wore pale blue and a coronet-looking
comb. Mrs. Ernest Raleigh (of the dresses) was
in the front stalls with her nice, big husband, and
wore her very prettiest chiffon velvet. Lots of
folk, who have been trying hard to live up to
grand opera, settled themselves with a satisfied
rustle at the nice, “usual” first-night feeling.
People who had not cultivated the Wagner soul,
yet hankered after the trail of the Smart Set, had
a cruel time while op£ra lasted.
Gaston Mervale must have got huffy over some
detail of the performance. After a big scene with
Leah, he refused to come on to bow acknowledg-
ment to the plaudits. Miss Brunedid not improve
matters by stepping before the curtain at the
third “rise” and declaring, in a chirpy voice,
that “ owing to a misunderstanding ” Mr. Mervale
refused to accept his share in the affable uproar.
You could almost hear Mervale grinding his teeth
behind the stage at the clumsiness.
Gaston Mervale, no longer the saturnine person-
age beloved of matinee girls, is nowadays the
usual escort of a brace of motherly dames, who see
that he doesn’t drink his tea too strong.
Harry Sweeney, the bright young man of the
Brune co., has, after all, been snatched from the
prospective terrors of a deep-sea journey in search
of opportunity abroad. He takes the place of
Pickford of the Profile in the Brough-Flemming
co., and will play lover-like youths till further
notice.
Hal Cohen, the large, soft, promising tenor-
baritone, who took his well-provided way to Hing-
land recently, sends pleasing records of his pro-
gress. The extreme cold, or the example of
sundry successful chums, induced the lengthy one
to put aside his letters of introduction and settle
down to hard study. Bouhy, his teacher, is proud
of the result. At the same time, gracious Melba
smiles on the aspirant, makes much of him, calls
him “Faust,” and extends her capable hand to
help him along the hilly road. Which all bodes
well for the Ballarat boy.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Adelaide has been suffering from a Cup week. All the
squattocracy left its lambs browsing on a thousand
plains, jammed its best clothes into the tonneau, and
motored madly to town. The frock-builders had a wild
and hairy time, and most of them had to provide “ young
persons ” to pin their frenzied clients into the unfinished
splendor at the last moment. The first day was unex-
citing and disappointing, partly because there was a
boat-race raging elsewhere, and partly because most oi
the dames and demoiselles were nursing their charms for
Cup Day. It requires moral courage to wear the same
garment to two successive race meetings, and in this
inild, economical State it is considered a sign of unre-
generacy to possess anything beyond the conventional
“ best frock.” Charming Grace Palotta, in a confection of
fawn voile, criss-crossed with dark brown velvet, paraded
the expanse of herbage on Cup Day ; and another visitor
of attractive frocking, who wandered on top of the sheep-
food, was Mrs. Hope Osborne from _N.S. W. She sported a
gorgeous robe of emerald green voile, with cream passe-
menterie embellishments. Governor Le Hunte was back,
and pervaded the landscape with Mr. Baillie Hamilton
of the many names, taking off his distinguished plug hat
(was it a plug?) to the fair frockers. Notable frills were
worn by Mrs. Charles Warren (a gorgeous lavender silk),
Mrs. Herbert Rymill (pale blue), Mrs. Adolf Gebhardt
(copper-colored gown with pompadour passementerie,
and copper-colored plumes waving on her blue silk mil-
linery), Mrs. Arthur Rymill (lovely green pinafore rai-
ment over Limerick lace vest, sleeves hooped with green
velvet, and white plumed hat), Mrs. Albion Tolley (a
cream and pink effect), Mrs. Green (handsome brown silk
with insertings of floral silk, latticed with narrow velvet),
Mrs. H. W. Varley (navy cloth, white satin and velvet
trimmings), Mrs. Bleechmore, Mrs. d’Arenberg, Mrs.
Deeley, and others.
The Palotta-Ward-Willoughby Company has departed,
after filling the theatre nightly. And some time in the
middle of last week the populace began treading each
other under foot in the wild stampede for grand opera
seats. At time of writing the rush still continues, and
long streams of patient male adjuncts are sacrificing
their few remaining hairs on the altar of duty. I know
one mate who plunged into the crowd 15 times. Four-
teen times he rebounded empty-handed, but finally he
succeeded in getting the seats he particularly didn’t
want, somewhere wheie you can’t see anything, and
everybody treads on your feet. He was looking jaded
when he came out, and his coat was rent at the seams.
Perhaps one in a huudred of the audience will be able to
appreciate good music and understand German. The
other 99 don’t know anything about music, and-have
merely seen a German sausage in a shop window.
Miss Hannah Cohen, accompanied by her father, fled
on the 14th to Westralia, where she will be married in a
gorgeous blue travelling frock. The popular damsel’s
trousseau is a thing of joy, and the verdant neighborhood
of Green bushes, which she is shortly to adorn, will enjoy
revelations.
Died in Adelaide last week, Mr. E eneeer Cooke, Com-
missioner of Audit for some 22 years. Deceased was a
clever amateur musician, an authority on art, an enthu-
siastic collector of pictures, and a skilful wielder of the
brush. He leaves a widow (who is related to the Fishers,
Herbert Phillipses, and various other well-known Adelaide
folk), and a grown-up family, several of whom are
graduates of our ’Varsity.
Our chief institution for the advancement of melody
arose and had its first concert of the season in the Elder
Hall last week. Governor Le Hunte gave the powerful
encouragement of his countenance from the front row,
and the Salt of the Earth was present. The Conserva-
torium hasmuch youthful genius in its ranks just now,
and not a few of its ornaments have gathered honors in
the other States, against all comers. Soprano Clytie
Hine and pianist Carlien Jurs took the largest iaurel
wreath away with them.
Tortoise Town is suffering from an epidemic of private
masque balis, whereat Edwin dances with the wrong
Angelina, and plain Miss Clodd has the time of her life.
What time Adelaide is not frivolling in this fashion it is
giving girls’ fancy-dress carousals, a form of dissipation
which, in spite of masculine scoffing, has survived from
last season. The male element is strictly excluded. It
is confidently expected that by the middle of the season
said male element will appear at the carousal door on all
fours, and beg for admittance to the revels once more, and
state humbly that it is willing that its best tall hat should
be used as a slop-basin at refreshment time.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Despite his much-advertised provincialism,
Premier Carruthers’ policy speech at Kogarah
was largely stolen from Yic. Premier Bent; and,
in its essentials, amounts to little more than a
replica of Bent’s own programme. The biggest
point of all, the decision to resume the Cooma-
Bombala lands before the railway is constructed,
is simply Bent’s Western District scheme over
again. The abandonment of the Arbitration
Court in favor of Wages Boards is another Yic.
idea. The only thing about the programme that
isn’t taken from Vic., or some other Australian
State, is the proposal to remit the income-tax and
the stamp duties.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and REST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
piS
GJ-O TO TTTTT.t-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
•13/- per Hnlf-dozen, free by post throuyliont
A iistrttlia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. QENNERT, 89C. PBG St. Martin, Paris, France
MUDDY.
There ought to be far more good men offering
their services to their country to-day. When you
ask men why they will not come forward, their
reply is that they refuse to enter an arena
where a man’s equanimity is so much disturbed,
his character assailed and besmirched ; they re-
fuse to enter the turmoil of public life with all its
disadvantages.— Cockyruthers.
And Joe speaks from experience.
One of the Howard Smith Co., at the in-
spection of the new coaster, Cooma:—
Broadly speaking, the Australian coastal trade was
better catered for, and at lower prices, than the coastal
trade of any other country in the world.
But he said nothing of a country so excellent in
ship-services being capable of building its own
ships.
In ordering the household supplies, don t
forget Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It never
fails in cases of croup.*
This Elastic Truss—
xc
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/■
■is ch e acme of comfort, made of
die best materials, and gives
Che required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds oflMisses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Some people would like to know if
Jokearruthers, when he is censoring the papers
that are to be bought for free distribution in
London, bans those which contain his abuse of
the Australian Government.
CURIOUS FORMATION OF STORM-CLOUD
OVER AUSTRALIA.
I am quite aware that Australia will fight hard against
giving away any territory or fostering our aims in any
way, but Australia has to choose between a black popula-
tion and a Jewish white one. Australia is vvaking up to
her folly and her possible future collapse. The Jews
could possibly safeguard her future as a white territory.
Thus we are in a position to dictate our own terms.—
Zanowii.l, the Jew, on Australia.
An unspeakably dead thing is the Upper
House in which only rich property-holders are
qualified to sit, and for which only moderately
rich property-holders are qualified to vote. Of
the recent Westmoreland (Tas.) election it is re-
ported :
The polling was small in all districts, and the returning
officer declared that the rolls are shockingly inaccurate.
They have not been used for thirty years.
All that time William Dodery and his pal were
returned unopposed, because it wasn’t worth while
to put up another Tory just like themselves to run
against them.
A few doses of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will cure your cold, and perhaps save a
doctor’s bill later on. It always cures.*
Carruthers announces that he proposes to
go to the country as an insect buzzing on the
end of the Dry Dog’s tail: —
The political party to which I belong has associated
itself with a party over which Mr. Reid is leader, and
people should he entitled to express their opinion at the
(State) elections as to the conduct of Federal affairs.
There is no particular reason, either, why people
shouldn’t express their opinion on the conduct of
Federal affairs at the election of aldermen, or in
connection with the appointment of a municipal
dog-killer; also there isn’t any particular reason
why the election of churchwardens shouldn’t turn
on the conduct of Carruthers. In fact, there are
churchwarden candidates who would rather the
election turned on anything except their fitness
for churchwarding, and that is what is the matter
with J. Carruthers. The State elections turn on
State politics, and J. Carruthers has been in
charge of State politics for three years, and he
seems desperately anxious to change the subject.
Eastern papers mentionedlately, asanother
instance of how large estates are being cut up for
closer settlement without the
assistance of any iniquitous land-
tax, that the Westrahan Midland
Railway Co. had just held an-
other sale, and had permitted
the public to acquire no less that
73,781 acres for £46,382. It was
a very good yarn as it stood;
but since then the auctioneer’s
“ property report ” has been pub-
lished, and it transpires from said
report that Emanuel Bros, and
S. J. Phillips in partnership, or
Phillips alone, brought 25,364
acres out of the 73,781, and
Francis Pearse bought 8860 acres,
and the Harlots 6395 acres, and
the Holmes Bros. 6526 acres in
one line; and the Emanuels,
and Pearses, and Darlots and
Holmeses were already spread
over vast areas before they raked
in these further little lots. So
instead of closer settlement start-
ing, the big estate disease has
been aggravated.
Why was it cabled out to Australia that
Edward VII. had a conversation lasting 15
minutes with President Fallieres, of France ? It
was only about long enough for the genial monarch
to say “Can you keep one down this morning,
Fallieres ? ” and for the ever courteous Frenchman
to remark that it was the first he had had that
day. Seems that a poor King can’t have a wet
without a reporter spying upon him.
It is solemnly proposed that a referendum
shall be taken in N.S.W. at the coming State
election to decide whether Dalgety shall, or shall
not, be the capital of all Australia. Not a
referendum of the people of Australia about the
Australian capital, but a referendum of the people
of N.S.W. about the Australian capital.
Carruthers hasn’t heard of Australia yet,
so he doesn’t see the humor of the situation.
And the chances are that Joseph will die
without discovering Australia. He is getting
too old to go on exploring expeditions.
“ Hassan ” : The Commerce Act is all very
well. It stops cotton passing the Customs in the
masquerade of tweed. It stops “ Oby’s ”
“silk merveilleux” (B. 25/4/’07)
unless it sheds its silken pretence.
It treats Brum jewellery as
severely as the Excise ought to
treat Stinking Fish. But what
good does that do ? As soon as
the entries are passed, off comes
; the honest label. Do we see
“artificial or imitation silk”
stamped conspicuously upon the
“silk merv.” of the retail shop?
Does nobody ever buy Brum as 18
carat ? Please explain, somebody,
how the Commerce Act protects
the general public, which doesn’t
deal direct through the Customs,
but with the mostly dishonest per-
son who takes the tell-tale labels off
as soon as they have served their
turn. What is wanted is an Act
which shall make misdescription of
goods by the retailer a criminal
offence. If there are any honest re-
tailers, they won’t object; but I im-
agine that the howl of apoplectic indig-
nation at such a proposed “restriction
of trade ” would once and for all convince
the very simplest soul that Diogenes
wouldn’t find much difference between
Athens and one of our cities. What
difference he might find would probably
be in favor of Athens.
The soulless, old private enterprise con-
tractor’s theory that anything, or almost anything,
is good enough for a soldier dies hard. Witness
this, from a Hebald account of a visit to the
Cooervvull Woollen Mills, where material for
Commonwealth uniforms is manufactured :—
On being shown a sample of kharki, our representative
remarked that it seemed almost too good for soldiers’
clothes. “ You are right,” replied the manager. “ It is
too good for men who have to sleep on the ground and per-
form military duty."
To anyone but shoddy-loving newspapers, it
would naturally occur that men who perforce
have to sleep on the ground are the men
above all others who require the very best
clothing. At all events, even at the risk of
another “Federal extravagance ” yelp, the Federal
authorities should intimate, by a system of rigid
inspection and ready condemnation, that clothing
too good for the men who may have to sleep on
the ground in doing their country’s work can’t be
made.
Tired in the morning? There are times
when the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
work. Those are the times for a stimulant that
will brace you up and stay by you. The best of
all tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Our friend the Jap continues to squeeze
out the foreigner. Comparing his shipping re-
turns for the first months of this year and last,
his own tonnage trebled, while foreign tonnage in
Jap ports fell 15 per cent. The foreigner is ever
so welcome in the Monkey cage, provided he can ■
live on air and veiled insults.
THE EDUCATION OF LEO.
The Standard relies on the educative influence of the
colonial statesmen to induce the motherland to give
reciprocal preference. It observes that even in the disas-
trous month of January, 1906, when the general election
took place, nearly one-half the nation was prepared to
accompany them “the whole road.”
Deakin : “ Jump, you beggar /”
Tasmanian Governor Strickland leapt into
the arena of politics to plead for the right of the
State Frights crowd to get representation at the
Imperial Conference. He effectively damned his
cause with this advocacy :
Moreover, by reason of the constitution of their Upper
Chambers, the State Governments represent the voice of
the middle classes and of vested interests, together with
a certain continuity of policy, in a manner which cannot
be represented by a Commonwealth Government, having
two Chambers elected on one and the same universal
suffrage.
That represents practically the main reason why
the Australian democracy is resolute to have
more Federalism.
The ancient phrases “extorsively re-
ceiving” and “by color of his office,” tossed
about lately in Sydney Central Criminal Court,
prompted Justice Simpson to advise the Govern-
ment to construct an up-to-date code. Chief Jus-
tice Higinbotham did that for Victoria, and did it
well; also Chief Justice Griffith did something
very good in the same line for Queensland. The
N.S.W. Government spent some £16,000 in con-
solidating statutes a few years ago, but so shame-
ful was the waste of money in feeing junior bar-
risters that the work was broken off short. Judge
Heydon, now on the District Court Bench, had
undertaken to do the business without pay, but
he was permitted to employ help.. The result was
that an army of young men was furnished with
scissors and paste'pots, and turned loose on the
statutes. They cut them to pieces, and gummed
them together again with an immensity of labor,
and to the great detriment of their clothes through
stickphast. But there was no visible result, and
at long last the Australian Star called the
attention of Parliament to the fearful amount of
paid “help” that was at work, and Parliament
sacked the earnest young men and threw the
gum out of the window.
A politician writes :
Premier Oarruthers of N.S.W., finding that buzzing-in-
a-bottle like an irritated beetle isn’t heard outside to
any appreciable extent, threatens to deal with the Federal
capital site question after the manner of the confidence
man. He proposes at next election to put the question to
a vote of the N.S.W. electorate: “Will they have the
capital at Dalgety or will they not?” Now supposing,
just to humor the Insect in the Bottle, that such a
referendum will settle the question, and assuming
that the right of the electors of Australia to
the choice of their capital does not exist, and
taking it for granted that'a majority of the N.S.W. people
are pig-headed enough to try to dictate to the
Commonwealth as to where the capital is to be, the way
in which Oarruthers proposes to solve the difficulty is
worthy of a political magsman. Apart from that section of
the community (and The Bulletin thinks it is the largest
section) that believes Dalgety to be ab ut the best avail-
able site, and the other section that honestly has its
doubts, there are all the barrackers for every other spot
that has a possible or impossible show of being chosen.
All these will, of course, howl Dalgety down, just as they
would poke borak at the Jasper Sea, if that hallowed site
werr put forward when they wanted a capital at the abat-
toirs, and just as vehemently as they would howl at each
other. Lyndhurst, Yass, Tumut, Sawyer’s Flat, Dead-
man’s Hollow, Biddulph’sßackyard, and every other place •
that thinks itself in the running will deliberately
combine to vote Dalgety down, and they would do the
same to each other, if submitted one by one. If the In-
sect must play with a referendum, let him play fair, and
put up every available site at once. Then the place with
the most lively lot of barrackers will come on top, and
though that fact won’t affect matters in the slightest,
Oarruthers can strike an attitude, and say that he was
honest. The leagues, associations, and cliques now be-
hind Oarruthers openly say that they support him
because they consider him the bad best of the bunch at
present. If a referendum were to be taken on the
bare question : “ Oarruthers —Yes or No ” —Joseph would
get a ten times worse bump than the Dalgety site will
ever get.
Help the weak if you are strong,
Respect the old if you are young,
Own your faults when you are wrong,
And when you’re angry hold your tongue,
Pay your debts before you bet,
Back not a bill for rich or poor,
And when a cough or chill you get,
Take some Woods’Great Peppermint Cure.
“ 0.K.” : A recent Plain English reference
to the sins of the “Reputable Employer” in
Victoria jsa little out in its statement as regards
the starch trade. Starch manufacturers present a
cleaner front to their critics than the following
figures—quoted from The Bulletin article—
would indicate. You say :
There are 131 employees in the trade, of whom 73 are
adults ; 42 are females and 31 males, and the average
adult wage of £1 Os. lid. stuck in the Wages Board’s
throat. So the matter is to go to the Court, which will
practically have to decide whether there is such a person
as a reputable employer in the whole boiling of them.
The correct number of adults employed in starch,
making is 94, and their average wage is £llls. 7d.
This, though poor enough, is 60 per cent, higher
than £1 Os. lid. The terms offered by the em-
ployers are: 365. per week to all adults of two
years’ experience ; 335. to those who have served
12 months in the trade; and 30s. for the first-year
workers. Presumably there is something to learn
before a starch-maker acquires proficiency. He
or she learns the whole of that something in two
years, and is then valued at 365. per week. The
inducement is not much for “reputable employers”
to blow about, but it looks considerably better
than the 30s. lid. wage they are accused of. That
is the average for all employees, boys, girls
and men.
At last a real live man (he signs himself
“ S. Beaumont ”) has arisen and written to Syd-
ney Telegraph on the Australian capital question.
This is his letter :
With no authoritative interpretation of Clause 125, it
seems to be a wilful and useless waste of time and money
to go a-hunting after sites for the Federal, and, relyingin
the good faith of the people, decide that the charge for
admission shall be not less than one shilling each, to be
collected during the interval the public, relying on the
good faith of the promoters, fill the hall, the interval
takes place, the collector starts with his box, Is. 6d. it
offered (50 per cent, more than the sum set down in the
bill), the offer is rejected, and one pound demanded by
the promoters and claimed on the capital. The Federal
Parliament will fool this State point of view. Suppose
Mr. Reid engaged to deliver an address in the Melbourne
Town Hall, say, on equity of good government, the pro-
moters confident of success, in Melbourne all the time.
How does their preposterous claim to an unlimited area
and any distance they choose from Sydney' look from an
everyday business to the top of its bent, and keep the
seat of government ground of that sum being not less
than a shilling.
The Flinders (S.A.) election on Saturday,
May 18, ought to lead to the death of somebody.
Warren stands for the Price Government and
franchise reform, while ex-Methodist parson
Foster, who was Works Minister under Butler
and Jenkins, is the chosen of the National Ass.
Foster once posed as an advanced Radical, but
now he is Tory and National Ass pure and simple.
Three Ministers are in the district this week
fighting for Warren, and pretty nearly the whole
drove of Ass is also there fighting for Foster.
There is scarcely enough hotel accommodation in
the district for all the Ministers and all the Ass.
Premier Price went forth in person, and made
hair-raising statements about Foster’s record
when he was in office, and the ex-preacher replied
in print:—
I have just perused the characteristic slanderous state-
ments of Mr. Price at Gumeracha. They are absolutely
false, and he knows it. I wish I could in open court
command the presence of Public Works officers and the
production of official documents. I would then abun-
dantly satisfy the public as to what manner of man this-
malicious, vindictive, designing, coarse, vulgar, blatant
slander er, who is Minister of Education and Premier of
South Australia, is. “ These be thy gods, oh Israel 1"
Then Price repeated his statements, and quoted’
official documents in support of them, and the
battle had become a shockingly violent row when
this issue went to press.
THE SECESSIONIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The builders built, in a mood sublime,
A House for All;
But a rat has come in the early time
To work its fall.
He paws his muzzle and gnaws his bone,
His hide is sleek ;
He threatens the steadfast walls of stone
With an angry squeak.
The rat is king in his mouldy den,
His cellar dim,
And the light that visits the souls of men
Is not for him.
The paltry goal and the petty gain
Are all his dream,
And the mean, small spites of a little brain
He holds supreme.
Where the slimy streams of treason flow,
He lies and laves ;
The rat is ever a rat, and so
As a rat behaves.
His teeth are keen, and he squeaks his power,
His petty pride ;
If the rat bide not in the topmost tower—
Then woe betide!
In the House for All we are friend and friend,
And may not swerve
From the common cause, and the common end,
We speed and serve.
Our strength is little enough ; 'twere less —
A thing for mirth—
If a chair were given to Bitterness
Around our hearth.
Clear reason tells us that, once and all,
Our only fate
Is this: To stand as one, or fall,
A ruined State.
For never a wall was built so stout
That it could win
Sure triumph over foes without
And rats within.
N.S.W.
NOMEN.


Talking'
Machines
at Paling’s.
t
wz r>i
» a
won;
Edison Phonographs.
Columbia
Craphophones.
Gramophones.
BEST QUALITY goods
at LOWEST PRICES.
Write for free catalogues.
Pa!ing'*s,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
89
Ivipp
Pianos at
Paling'*s.
One of the
most popu-
lar Pianos
in Austra-
lia. Gua-
ranteed to
stand in
any c 1 i -
mate.
Old Pianos taKen
in exchange and full
value allowed.
Catalogues free
Sole Agents
Paling’s
338 George St.
Sydney
62
Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING’S.
xc
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
Government
Notices.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR FROM
FARMERS WHO HAVE VACANCIES
FOR FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should be given as to whether experienccd hands or beiinners are reqmred, and also
as to wages offered. A large number of capable men are reaching New South Wales weeKiy iro
agricultural districts of Great Britain. q AND ERSON, Director Intelligence Department,
Phillip and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
2i102
• • •
THis
Electro-
Medical
Battery!
HAVE You got the dreaded Sciatica ?
Then you don’t need to be urged
to purchase something that will actu-
ally relieve and positively cure it. It
is used by medical men all over the
world, and is a sure cure —a hundred
times more effective than the finest
and most expensive electric belt ever
made.
It can be made weak enough for an
infant, or strong enough for an adult.
The case contains the battery, and a
number of appliances to apply to the
parts affected.
We will send it anywhere post free,
for 355., and refund money in any case
of dissatisfaction.
HOME
NEW
MEDICAL APPARATUS
BATTERY
DRY
WITH
m
&■
c*
%•
m
■ \W*mk
Price 35/-
POST FREE.
THE O. & J. MEDICAL BATTERY was devised for those
suffering from—
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago,
Nervous Troubles, Etc.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
My
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 George St.,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
m
m.
W
m
YOUR SHAVING TROUBLES
are over the moment you begin to use the famous Plum Razor. In
its wonderful steel lies the secret of its superiority. Gives no trouble
and always in perfect order.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 2f/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, If/-
Pair In Handsome Case, 30/-
PRICE 10/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
“Yours and
Mine” (Old Scotch)
is THE WHISKY of the DAY.
The DEMAND for it is POSITIVELY
PHENOMENAL. Pore, Wholesome, of
agreeable Aroma, and gratifying to the
Palate, it is a Perfect Tonic Stimulant.
Always Call for “YOURS (Si MI NIC.”
BecK’s
Raiser Lag;er
Has won THE ONLY GOLD MEDAL
at the New Zealand Exhibition.
Light, Stimulating, and Refreshing. Absolutely
Pure, of GUARANTEED EXCELLENCE, and un-
questionably THE MOST POPULAR LAGER ON
THE MARKET.
SOLE AGENTS:
LOHMANN <a CO.,
7-9 Bridge St., Sydney.
Representative for N. S. Wales - JOHN RANKIN.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Glue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also i Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaida, Melbourne and Sydney,
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESOH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Frsmantle.
Bbewert and Offices:
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTION
A healthy sign of the times is that the Aus-
tralian who believes in home-made goods is getting into
an aggressive frame of mind. He is starting out to prove
that his country’s products are not only equal to, but, in
many cases, better than, the imported ones. In this con-
nection, the trans-continental bike ride of Messrs, Lennie
and Warren takes on a new and national aspect. It arose
out of an argument as to the relative reliability
of Australian-made and imported bicycles. Lennie,
who is a carpenter, stoutly maintained that the home-
made (Australia is home) wheels were the best, and when
someone suggested that he should try one on a journey to
Sydney, he offered to do it on a path racing machine.
Hitherto heavy roadsters, which were said to be the
“ best imported,” had been used ; but Lennie and Warren
swore to do the trip on Australian path racers just to
drive the argument home. They left Perth on February
25th, mounted on racers built by the Davies-Franklin
Go., of Ballarat (Vic.), and using light road-racing
tyres made in Australia by the Dunlop Co. Lennie
weighed lOst. 41b. and Warren list. 131 b. when they
arrived in Sydney, and in addition to this they carried
between 301 b. and 401 b. of luggage on machines that
weighed 221 b. and 231 b. respectively. Friends and rivals
prophesied disaster, especially if they struck bad weather
and heavy tracks. And they did. They had 10 days of
rain before getting clear of Westraiia, and the tracks
became too awful for words, but the filagree machines
came through it all without a crack, three small tyre
punctures, which were easily repaired with the pocket
outfit, representing the total casualties. From Melbourne
to Sydney the pair used road-racing tyres of slightly
heavier make, and the machines are now, at time of
writing, on view in the window of Grffiths’ tea
emporium in George-street, Sydney. As an ad-
vertisement for Australian-made bikes and tyres
this will take a lot of beating. The locally-made
bike is fast supplanting the imported article, but
after this tremendous demonstration of its toughness and
reliability, Australian riders have no excuse for buying
imported machines, and every inducement to stick to
those made in the land in which they live. Hitherto
the wildest Freetrader has always based his preference
for imported goods on the false premises that the local
article is inferior; but when 451 b. of Australian-made
machine and tyre carry 391 lb. of man and luggage, or
Sit), lloz. for every lib. of machine and tyre, the gag
about “ superiority ” becomes a very discredited
chestnut.
The languishing industry of path-cycling (it
cannot fairly be described as a sport) threatens to revive
somewhat next season. Major Taylor is announced as
a certain visitor, and Lawson has offered to display his
hind legs for £lO per night, while MacFarland asks only a
modest £6 ss. Taylor, it is understood, will accept the
same fee as Lawson. The negotiations are being con-
ducted with Victorian sports promoters—which is
another injustice to the Ma State ; but, no doubt, the
undutiful daughter will allow the poor old mother to look
at the imported legs if the parent will part up sufficiently.
Said that many of the cyclists who raced under the
auspices of the Cyclists’ Ass. are realising that the Ass.
is a foundered brayer, and that the present state of
affairs is far from satisfactory. The racing cyclist has a
tender pocket, and the League is still almighty to hit him
there, as its disqualifications are recognised all over the
world.
* * * *
The average Yankee paper can give even the
Sydney dailies long starts in the lying stakes and then
w»in easily. The latest lovely gag is that Australian pro-
moters have offered Major Taylor £2OOO for 12 races. Had
the papers stuck to its own beloved dollars, the
amount would still have been far in excess of what any
Australian promoter could afford to offer Ixion if he rode
his wheel round both Sydney Cricket Ground and Ex-
hibition Oval the same night.
•V * * *
Sydney saw some wild-cat tussles on the Rugby
fields, on Saturday last, when a clear, crisp atmosphere
filled the impatient ’bailers with a fierce desire to wrestle
with bulls or tratncars just for the fun of breaking them.
No bulls being available, and the men in the tramcars
keeping their charges at a safe distance, this incan-
descent mass of fiery energy was let loose on the opposite
side, and, as they say in the classics, the results were
great.
The match of the day was that at University
Oval, where Newtown and Glebe—adjacent electorates,
always keen rivals, and dead-level in the competition—
met to decide which of them should go down a step. It
was a strenuous struggle. Fifteen thousand people
looked on and perspired with excitement and
the making of noise. On the Oval, the players
made the game faster and faster, each side vainly striving
to utterly exhaust the other, and sometimes the gasping
teams took a firm grip of each other, and swayed blindly
about the field. Newtown had the better of the first
spell, hurling Glebe dow r n on its line again and again,
and crossing it twice. Towards the end of the half Glebe
came again with a series of rushes, but, failing to get
across, the first half ended with Newtown leading—six to
nil. In the second half the Glebe men pulled themselves
together. There had been too much individual play
before this, the forwards i rying to do everything. Now
they concentrated their energies on getting possession of
the ball from the scrum and feeding the backs. The
effect was striking. Newtown was put on the defensive
at once, and Glebe, like Napoleon at Waterloo, let loose a
whole series of charges on the enemy’s line. None of
them got across owing to the strenuous defence, but a
penalty and a field goal placed Glebe in the front, and,
before Newtown could equalise things, time ran out,
leaving the Butchers winners by one point.
When St. George met Eastern Suburbs it found
an indifferent pack mightily sustained by a combination
of first-class backs. D’Alpuget was like a rock whom
there was no shifting, and Messenger was backed
by three other demons like unto himself. The
names of these devils were Corbett, Stuntz, and
Rosenfeld. The first half closed with Eastern Suburbs
six to nil. The second half saw St. George
improved a lot, and the Eastern backs played a
defensive game that was good to watch. St. George
played with desperate eagerness, and for a time it looked
as though the Eastern men would be overcome. St.
George had notched six points, and a chance goal
might ruin everything. Eastern team changed its forma-
tion, playing seven men in the pack and letting loose a
winger. But it was a failure, and East was thrown back
on its line with St. George struggling to get a chance to
pot a goal. The whis le blew at a most interesting stage,
and left Eastern Suburbs victorious with nine to six. At
Sydney Cricket Ground, Balmain was hopelessly over-
whelmed by South Sydney, which won by 13 to three. At
the Sports Ground, Sydney District and Western Suburbs
drew with six points each ; and at far-away Manly the
local team was trampled under foot by University—a case
of 22 to nil.
* * * *
In the competition, Glebe and University have
now established a substantial lead with six competition
points each. Eastern Suburbs, Newtown, South and
North Sydney are all level in the second line with four
points each, and behind them come Sydney and Western
Suburbs with three each. St. George has two, and Manly
and Balmain none.
* * m *
Maoriland Rugby Union is taking no chances.
Association football is gaining ground somewhat, and the
Rugby Union, determined to do something to check this
growth, has started operations by voting £2OO to each
branch for the encouragement of the Rugger game among
school-boys. As everybody knows, the Association is the
old, original form of the game, and at the present time
is also gaining ground in New South Wales and Wes-
tralia, although in the latter State it has the disadvantage
of having to play without the stimulus of gate money.
* *• * *
N.S. W.'RugbyUnion, which hasnotbeenmaking
money in the prolific manner of the Metropolitan Union,
is casting around for ideas whereby expenses may be re-
duced. It proposes to begin a self-reliant policy by
asking the Railway Commissioners to reduce fares on
football teams, and will approach Mr. Johnson on the
matter. What the S.M. Herald’s attitude is has not, so
far, been allowed to transpire. Anyhow, it is to be hoped
that the new Railway Commissioner keeps a specially
sharp axe on the premises for the benefit of deputations
of the sort
* * * *
On the cards that a N.S.W. Rugby team will
tour Westralia some time this season. The N.S.W. Union
has offered to:finance the jaunt on the understanding
that, after ground charges have been paid, expenses are
to come out of the balance. If there is still a margin, it
is to go to the Westralian Union, to be used in “ fostering
the game,” for the Westralian Rugbyites regard the pro-
gress of the rival branches of ’balling with considerable
apprehension.
* * * *
In the Sydney “Soccer” competition Glebe
and Balmain hold pride of place, having won both
matches played up to date, with four points each.
Ultimo is secorid on the list with three, and Pyrmont and
Rozelle have two each. Petersham, the newly-formed
club, has one, and his Majesty’s navy flies the sign of the
hen-deposit. The trouble with the Navy was that the
men were, in comparison with the others, quite out of
condition. Whether it is that the Soccer men practise
all the year round, or are naturally harder than any
other kind of footballer, writer knoweth not, but, some-
how, they seem to start their seasons in better condition,
and play their game in a manner much superior to that
of the other two brands of footballers.
» * * *
Sydney League footballers (Australian rules)
are sadly hampered by the want of proper enclosed
grounds on which to play. At present the League games
are conducted in open parks, and the excited barrackers
encroach on and hamper the players. Sometimes they
even rush in among them when the ball gets close to the
touch-line, with advice as to the best possible means of
disembowelling the opposition men. This sort of thing
is now quite general every Saturday afternoon, and it is a
beastly nuisance that will have to be got over somehow
before the game can go ahead as it ought to. It will
mean a lot of expense to the League, and at present that
body is hardly in a position to stand the strain.
Cannot some League official design some sort Of temporary
barrier than can be erected before the mill, and taken
down when the ambulance is removing the wounded and
the dead ?
* * * *
The surprise of Saturday’s play was the defeat
of Newtown, last year’s premier club, by Redfern. The
figures were fairly decisive, too: 46 points to 23! The
unexpected result was due to the preponderance of sure
kickers in the Redfern team. Newtown men held their
opponents too cheaply at the beginning, and by the time
they realised the fact it was too late for the discovery to
do them much good. During the last half the crowd
mingled freely with the players, and it was hard to keep
the ball in motion. The crushing defeat was that of Pad-
dington by Balmain. Paddington made a most miserable
display. North Sydney downed East Sydney in an easy,
comfortable way, by 59 to 31 points, and Sydney scored
32 points while the good young men of the Y.M.C.A.
were piling up 23. This last was the best-contested
match of the day, and play on both sides was distinctly
good. The result of the scramble was to leave Sydney
and Redfern at the top of the competition list, with four
points each. North Shore, Newtown, Balmain, and
Y.M.C.A. are dead level, with two each, and East Sydney
and Paddington are still in the slough of despond, repre-
sented on paper by a round dry nought.
* » * *
In the Victorian League games St. Kilda con-
tinued its victorious career by walloping Essendon, thus
constituting itself the only undefeated team this season.
Its barrackers already prattle prematurely about winning
the premiership. Seeing that the club never occupied
anything higher than third place, and that was a genera-
tion ago—in 74, namely—it is about up to it to get a
move on. The game against Essendon was fast and
strenuous but wonderfully unscientific, the outstanding
points being the adhesiveness of the seasiders’ hands
when the ball came near them, and the wonderful way
they lasted. Essendon is notoriously fast, and endeavored
to play the others to a standstill; a rushing, impetuous
third quarter left it two points ahead of Saints, yet the
last spell saw the latter pile on 5 goals 4 behinds
while the tired ’Dons could score but a pair of scraggy
points. It was a hard and well-won victory, and St. K.
deserves the shekels that will accrue therefrom pre-
sently. Carlton met Melbourne and, remembering St.
Kilda, took no chances with a weak team. The resuit
was a comfortable victory by 86 points to 47. Colling-
wood met “ Skinner’s hirelings ” on the South
ground, and seemed to have contracted paralysis
on the way down. At quarter time the score was, South
34 points, ’Wood ONE point. The Magpies woke up a
little thereafter and finished with 38 points to South’s
66 ; which was a disgraceful licking. ’Wood seems to
have forgotten that its system won’t keep in working
order unless the machinery is kept constantly greased
and free from rust, so to speak ; also that other teams
have adopted and improved on the same system, to the
originators’ manifest disadvantage. Geelong—the sup-
posed hopeless, disorganised Geelong—came up to Fitzroy
and, to the horror of the local barrackers. walloped last
year’s runners-up on their own ground by 77 points to 64
—and ’Roy hasn’t got over the shock yet. In the
Association the money at the back of Essendon (A.) tells
its tale ; the six captured League players placing it head
and shoulders over all rivals. Richmond was the victim
this time, by 78 points to 61. West Melbourne made an
awful show of Brunswick—by 14 goals 14 behinds to 1
goal 5 behinds ; while Prahran bestowed a similar favor on
Preston—by 121 points to 25. The other games don’t
matter. One Richmond player dislocated his shoulder
while taking a high mark, and will duly appear on the
balance-sheet as medical comforts or boots or something
for a month or two in consequence. Or he may be a hot
sea bath.
tt m ■* *
It looks as though the Victorian Football
League had bitten off more than it could chew in the
case of W. Monagle. This man with the curious name
was employed by the Melbourne Football Club, which
seems to be the winter edition of the Melbourne Cricket
Club. The League raised a rumpus, and ordered the Mel-
bourne Club to dismiss Monagle, because he once had
the impudence to ask the Essendon Club for payment for
football rendered. When the Melbourne Club seemed
disinclined to dismiss Monagle, the League threatened to
withdraw the final matches from the M.C.C. ground unless
Monagle got the bounce. Then the Melbourne Club, with
both eyes fixed on the gate, bounced Monagle with great
precipitancy. But the public is taking quite a large
interest in the case, and the spectacle of the League
demanding a man’s dismissal for asking to be paid is
greeted with coarse guffaws. Certain it is that not one
of the secretaries of the clubs that form the League is
game to make a sworn statement to the effect that his
club does not remunerate players with hard cash. A
hostile press has challenged the secretaries to do so, and
up to the present there is heavy silence on the part of
the scribes. And if there isn’t at least one sworn
statement forthcoming, then the Monagle case will stand
out as a piece of paltry hypocrisy and football snuffle. It
is possible to be a whited football sepulchre just as much
as a whited church sepulchre, and ’ball snuffle is just as
disgusting as Sunday-school snuffle.
The Wednesday Football League—which plays
its games on the mid-week * shops,” halt-holiday—is
making a fast run into Melbourne’s favor. It boasts
seven clubs—St. Kilda, Essendon, Collingwood, South
Melbourne, Footscray, Prahran, and the Police. The
Fire Brigade team is thinking of joining in place of the dis-
banded Tramway team. Wednesday is now such a general
half-holiday in Melbourne, and the form is so good, that
the “gates” begin to be as well worth watching as the
play. The first matches of the season, on May 1, gave
’Wood, Saints and the Police a win over South, Essendon,
and ’Scray, and the “ Johns ” threaten to become a first-
class sporting draw. They run a stone and a-half heavier
than average teams ; yet, though the initial matches
were played in pouring rain on slushy grounds, they beat
Footscray by 42 points to 0.
* * * *
The fact that the Australian army contains only
10 per cent., or thereabouts, of marksmen, as mentioned
in the issue of 9/5/’O7, suggests that something ought to
be done to induce the sporty character to join some
corps or another, and devote some of his spare time to
becoming a rifle-shot of reliability and accuracy. The
Bulletin has no great faith in rifle clubs as schools for
military marksmen. The members of these associations
mostly practise at known ranges —which is fatal to the
military marksman. When the Asiatic army marches on
Sydney, it will not choose the rifle-butts for the battle-
ground. Even the behind-the-times British War Office
does give some slight encouragement to its soldiers to
thoroughly learn to use their weapons, and in the
Imperial forces a marksman may earn from Id. to 3d. per
day extra for good shooting. Nothing of the sort exists
in the Australian army, as far as writercan discover ; and
it is time it did. Also, practice ammunition ought to be
served out more liberally. The trouble about the
rifle association man is that, even when he is a
good marksman, he is not wholly a soldier ; there
are other things than marksmanship necessary to the
soldier. Also, it is necessary that when the scrap starts
the Defence authorities should be able to put a large em-
phatic finger on every good rifle shot in the country, and
have a place in the defence machine ready for him tostep
into.. But the great crowning objection to the rifle club
man, as already mentioned, is that he is a shooter over
known ranges. What is wanted is a system of training
by which the Australian soldier, when he sees an Asiatic
soldier in the distance, will know by the size of the blot
he makes on the landscape at what range to shoot to
kill. And that seems to be the one thing that the rifle
clubman does not learn under existing conditions.
* * * •
N.S.W. Motor Club’s “outside” race on Satur-
day was a howling success. The course was a 17-miles
run from Shark Island, in Port Jackson, to a mark off
Long Reef and back to the island. Members and guests
followed in the steamer Greyhound. But when the
Greyhound got outside the whole company started
schnapper fishing. Apparently it caught so many that
the steamer sank under the weight ; anyhow, the Grey-
hound didn’t return to see the finish of the race, and the
Fishing Editor is still absent without leave. Only six
motor boats started, the limit craft being Hinemoa with
a handicap of 72 minutes. L. J. Davies’ Goo-ee was on
scratch, and the other four started at lengthy intervals.
On paper there was nothing in it but Coo-ee, but the race
is not to the swift, and that fine cruiser blew out the
packing' of the cylinder head, and had to heave-to for
repairs. Having fixed up its engine, the Coo-ee’s crew
started on the long stern chase, and made a gallant effort
to cut down the long-markers. Regal, which started with
53|min. handicap, was leading, closely pursued by that
loveliest of all Australian cruisers, the Simplex, which is
a sort of floating villa. The Coo-ee came snorting through
the foam, but could not make up lost time, and was
beaten on the line by two minutes. The Regal came in
first, with the Simplex ssec. behind. It was a great
finish, with only five minutes between the first and last
boats.
* * • *
The American motor-boat Dixie, which made a
record of 25'532 nautical miles, 0r29'396 statute miles, for
the hour at the Palm Beach carnival, has been sent to
England as challenger for the British International Cup.
In case of accident to the champion a second boat will
also be sent, but the name has not yet transpired. The
Dixie is owned by Commodore E. J. Schroeder, is 40ft.
long, and is fitted with engines of 132'70 h.p. The most
formidable defender will be the new Daimler boat, of
270 h.p.
* * * *
George Whatmore, late secretary of the Motor
Boat Club of N.S.W. (hereinafter known as the Sydney
Club—-the other’s too long), who was Clerk in Charge cf
the N.S.W. Forestry Department, is now on six months’
leave of absence. When his holiday is over he will “ chuck
it,” and turn his attention partly to commerce and partly
to politics. At present, he is whizzing round the
North Coast in an imported motor-car. While he
is whizzing, somebody is perpetrating to his design
a racing freak, which is to be shaped like a shark,
the bow being an exact reproduction of the objec-
tionable creature’s head. This fearful creation will be
19ft. long, with a beam of only 2ft. 9in., and will be driven
by a 16h.p. Aster engine.
* * * *
The sculling match between Ford and Kemp
on the Hunter River, at Raymond Terrace (N.S.W.),
was well worth seeing. Ford, although not in
the same condition as Kemp, was faster and stronger,
and going to the front in the first 100yds., stayed there
till the finish. What made the race exciting was the pro-
found belief of the people along the banks that Kemp was
holding his man nicely, and would come with a final
sprint that would land the glory and the £2OO. As the
finishingline drew near the barrackers howled, “Now,
then, Kemp, make your sprint 1 ” But Kemp couldn’t,
and Ford won by a length and a half.
• * * *
News comes from Port Darwin (N.T.) that
Senators Dobson and Foxton have been buffalo shooting.
No one ever suspected Van Dobson of the Baresark spirit
that drives a man to slay big game. They returned to
the main Parliamentary party per motor-car after three
days of thrilling adventures, but as they did not bring
the dead buffaloes with them, there is a dark suspicion
that the buffaloes pursued Dobson, rather than the other
way about.
* * * ■*
The N.S.W. bowling semi-final for the Rawson
Cup commenced Saturday last. The Cup is at present in
the possession of Ashfield, and that club shows a firm
resolve to hang on to it as long as possible. City came at it
on Saturday, and after as Homeric a struggle as is pos-
sible at bowls, was defeated by 96 to 93, which was veiy
close indeed. Petersham threw Victoria Park out of the
competition by defeating it—the figures were 113 to 84 —
while Chatswood scored full points with the bye. Chats-
wood and Petersham will fight it out on Marrickville
green next Saturday afternoon, and the winner will meet
Ashfield the following Saturday at Randwick, and decide
the ownership of the Cup.
It is definitely decided that a Canadian lacrosse
team will visit Australia, arriving here about the second
week of July. Most of the players will be University
graduates and students having a look round the Empire,
and they are to pay £4O each towards the exes. Lacrosse
enthusiasts expect that football of all sorts will die after
the visit of the Canadian ’crossers.
* * * *
An Adelaide sportswoman, a widow, has had
the shocking bad luck to win a 100 to 1 double with a
bookmaker who was not good for the coin. Undis-
couraged, she charged him in the police court with the
“larceny” of her sovereign; but the P.M. remarked
coldly that there was no evidence to show that when
accused took the pound he did not intend to carry out
the contract; so the lady had no satisfaction that way
either.
* * * *
Adelaide Cup meeting was a great occasion for
the ladies. Mares won six of the twelve races on the
first two days, including the Cup itself, the Goodwood
Handicap, the Leger, and the S.A. Stakes for two-year*
olds. They also ran second and third in the only weight*
for-nge race of the week, the beating of Pius b3 r Red
Streak being a big surprise. Miss Grace Palotta was at
Morphettville on Cup Day to see the Port Admiral filly
named after her win a Nursery Handicap.
* * * *
Yic. country racing clubs are moving to form a
properly-elected board of control to manage the sport in
that State. As this would put the V.R.C.’s nose
grievously out of joint, that self-constituted boss may be
expected to fight the project. As the V.R.C. has no
higher legal status than the V.A.T.C. or the Croajingo-
long Race Club, each having the management of its own
course only, the country clubs have both law and equity
on their side ; but, when the delegates meet in Melbourne
during Grand National week, that won’t prevent a lot
of unpleasant remarks being passed round and several
strenuous resolutions aimed at the self-constituted
governing body. Whatever happens, racing in Victoria
certainly does need a controlling body with power to
enforce its decisions and regulations.
♦ * * »
“0.K.” : The more that Bent’s Anti-Gambling
Act comes to light the more it seems to have been in-
tended to excite public disgust rather than give satisfac-
tion to the vast majority of reasonable Victorians, whose
name is not Judkins. Bent and co. made out their vexa-
tious Bill as though there were no possible means of
squelching “totes” and ready-money betting shops,
without including church-bazaar raffles, charity euchre
parties, and all sorts of harmless gambles in one general
squelch. Because a sprinkling of professional puritans
asked for puritanical legislation, whilst the country in
general wanted nothing more than a simple, honest
treatment of the real gambling evil, the Government
pretended that the whole trouble was a question of Puri-
tanism or lawlessness. And, being bound to do some-
thing, Bent did what was most calculated to excite indig.
nation against Judkinsism, whereas he might as easily
have passed a Bill which would meet the wishes of the
respectable sinful public, and treat the Nonconformist
Conscience as a thing of minor importance. As the
matter stands at present, there is danger of an amending
Bill which, if not carefully watched, will put the old
gambling evil back on its dirty pedestal. What Bent
wanted not to do he deliberately overdid.
* * * *
English runner B. R. Day left Sydney for
Maoriland on Saturday complaining that he was out of
pocket through his visit to Australia, fn the land of the
Maori he will meet the local champion, McLachlan, over
three distances, and give a few exhibitions to the
benighted islanders.
* * * *
Edward Hodges died the other day at Southsea,
England. There was nothing notable about Mr. Hodges;
he merely bobs up owing to the fact that it was his
mother’s way of throwing cricket bails, when a girl, to
her brother, the late John Willis, that suggested to that
person the over-arm bowling of which he was the
originator.
• * • *
The vagaries of Anmrkan boxer Jeffries grow
wearisome. He seems to have about as much mind of his
own as a whirlwind. Latest report is that he is not at all
hard up, but is simply bubbling over with money, and
that he is off for a jaunt round Europe. This looks very
l ike a dodge to rig the market and raise the price of a
light with him to breaking point. If he is so almighty
sure of his ability to eat Squires in one round, all this
finesse about forcing aspirants for the title to pass over
the large end of the swag, win or lose, seems a tremendous
waste of effort. The Bulletin grows tired of ex-ehampion
James J.
* * * *
Jim Scanlan, whose claim to fame rests on the
fact that be bit Peter Felix when that dusky bruiser
walked all over him, has been writing from the States, ex-
plaining- that Squires has no earthly hope against Jeffries.
Mr. Scanlan may bean excellent judge of the taste of nigger
meat, but his opinions as to what Squires can do are not
of general public interest.
# • * *
The battle between Ed. Williams, list, ljlb.,
and Ted Nelson, lOst. 91b., raised great expectation
in the bosoms of the frequenters of the Melbourne Athletic
Pavilion, but the display was very disappointing. In
previous battles Williams, despite his marked advantage
of weight, height, and reach, won from Nelson only with
a small margin of points, and on this occasion he won,
but with a still smaller margin. Williams should have
done better than this, but with youth and strength and
size to his credit he fights a waiting battle against
a man like Nelson, whom on appearances he should
be able to consume off the shell. But appear-
ances are deceitful, and there isn’t a more puzzling
boxer in the Australian ring than the Sydneysider.
The fight went 20 rounds, and then Referee MTnerny
was unable to decide. Yet in rounds 10 and 11 Williams
had Nelson feeling so tired that he could only just keep
his end up. By a little more enterprise and ferocity at
this stage Williams might easily have finished his op-
ponent, but he did so little that spectators began to scoff
and to laugh the metallic laugh. The battle was a square
deal, however, and the fact that Nelson saw 20 rounds
through was due to the bad tactics drilled into young
Williams, who makes little attempt to get at his man
when he is “foot and point and eye opposed” toafirst-
rater. The Melbourne boy won on points in the opinion
of the referee and two judges. Nelson’s condition never
seemed too good, and he should not have survived the
eleventh round. Considered as a spectacle it was poor.
A STEWARDESS
Regabds Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pius as
a Splendid Remedy for Headaches and
Sciatica.
Mrs. Rankin,
who has some
time since retired
from the service
of the A.U.S.N.
Co., Ltd., in
whose steamers
she was so well
and favorably
known, says in
her letter that
she has found
no better remedy
for headaches
and sciatica than
Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root
Pills, and she
has no hesitation
in recom m ending
them as a splen-
did medicine: —“114 Kent-street,” Sydney.—
Dear Sirs,—As one who has used Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Rills for many years, I can con-
scientiously say that I have found no better
remedy for headaches and sciatica. For many
years I was stewardess in the employ of the
A.U.S.N. Co., and I always carried a bottle of
your pills with me, and I invariably found them
as satisfactory with other people as with myself.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a splendid
medicine, aud I have no hesitation in recom-
mending them.” To those who travel, Dr-
Morse’s Indian Root Pills should be a constant
companion, carried in the pocket or handy in the
portmanteau. Especially to those journeying by
sea, are these pills invaluable. A day or two
before sailing the bowels should be well regulated,
and on board ship a pill or two taken each night
will in nine cases out of ten prevent sea-sickness,
as it is invariably the constipated condition ot
the bowels which precipitates that distressing
complaint.


THE LONE HAND
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
WILL any Agents who have supplies which
they think will remain unsold kindly send
them back at once to this office, or to the
wholesale house from which they were secured ?
There is an unsatisfied demand for several
thousands in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and
Brisbane. We wish to meet the demand as well
as we can, but CANNOT REPRINT.
Agents are invited to send to the office
CONSERVATIVE estimates of their requirements
for the second number, which will be published
on SATURDAY, JUNE 1.
THE LONE HAND,
214 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
The Western Australian
Turf Club,
Applications for the Position of
Stipendiary Stewards.
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited for the
positions of Stipendiary Stewards to The
Western Australian Turf Club.
Three Stipendiary Stewards will be appointed
for a period of twelve months subject to tenure of
office being terminated by three months’ notice
by either party.
Salaries, £7OO per Annum each. Railway fares
to Race Meetings supervised by the Stewards will
be paid by the particular Club concerned.
Stewards will have full control of the racing on
the courses of The Western Australian Turf Club,
the Kalgoorlie, the Boulder and the Coolgardie
Race Clubs, the Canning Park Turf Club, the
Helena Vale Race Club and the Belmont Park
Race Club.
The date of Appointments shall be as from the
Ist August, 1907.
Applications, which must be superscribed and
addressed to the Secretary, will be received up to
5 p.m. on WEDNESDAY, 29th MAY, 1907, at
the Offices of THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN
TURF CLUB, HOWARD STREET, PERTH,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
By order of the Committee,
GEORGE H. WICKHAM,
Secretary.
April 16th, 1907.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
" REFEREE ” says The prince of living
Astrologers. "
Money Returned If HOROSCOPE Incorreot.
R. HERSCHELL <o f London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cot Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
£BOO
FOR NOTHING.
A person recently found
amongst some old papers
a number of Old Postage
Stamps and sold them at
once for £BOO to T. H. NICOLLE, the Postage Scamp
Merchant, 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Send
for his free Illustrated Price List. Surely YOU know some
old families who may have some? Hunt them up at
once—they are worth money.
KUGELMANN’S
m
*
■ ■
SB
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
l Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pef
return mail. • Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The S.M. Herald is already annoyed
with its tin god Johnson. In some parts of Ma
State —in the Riverina, for one —there is an
actual state of drought, and railway potentate
Johnson has been deputationised and asked to
allow fodder to be carried at infinitesimal rates.
Johnson said he would knock 25 per cent, off the
rates in special cases only. The Herald is
horrified, and points out that Oliver (who was
sacked through its influence) consented in a simi-
lar crisis to charge a mere nominal rate, and the
least that was expected from Johnson was a
reduction of 75 per cent. Therefore the Herald
is disappointed in Johnson.
Small-boy Carruthers’ incessant mouthing
at the Australian Government has got on the nerves
of even his own political friends at last, and the
other day Bruce Smith was pestered into applying
the slipper where it would do most good :
I have wondered whether Mr. Carruthers has suffi-
ciently considered that in taking' up the “ capital ” ques-
tion he is trespassing' on the domain of Federal functions.
Those of us who have been returned by the people of
N.S.W. to watch the interests of their State in the Com-
monwealth Parliament have had delegated to us the con-
duct of this controversy ; and it seems to me to be a little
irregular, at least, for Mr. Carruthers to assume an attitude
which seems to imply that we are not doing our duty, or
not doing it well enough ; so that it has become necessary
for him as a State authority to brush us aside, and
attempt to do our work for us. I should know what to
expect if the Federal members were to arrogate to them-
selves some important State matter, and thereby imply
that Mr. Carruthers is failing in his duty as a State poli-
tician.
From The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:
The old stone house at Mosman, known as “ The
Rangers,” is the subject of some newspaper controversy
in Sydney just now. It is said to have been built by Mr.
Henry Stuart Russell, a Queensland pioneer and a
member of the early Legislature of that State. Mr.
Russell arrived in Sydney in 1839, and soon'after made
his way to the Darling Downs, after Patrick Leslie and
other forerunners. The house was built in the very early
’forties, by Mr. Oswald Bloxsome, who had a station at
Rangers Valley, up Inverell way. In the mid-’forties
Oswald Brierly, the marine artist, being ill, was the guest
of Mr. Bloxsome, and while there painted a scene on the
dining-room wall, “The Rattlesnake in a Storm,” and
the picture is there still. In the mid-’sixties Mr. Stuart
Russell was tenant, and since then the house has had
many occupants. It is built after the Gothic fashion.
The ancient bell, which dates back 60 and odd years ago,
still hangs in the belfry, and is said, on occasion, to ring of
its own motion—ghosts probably.
“Hexham”: At Cook anniversary the
O’Sullivan declared April 28th, 1770, to be the
greatest day the Southern world had ever known.
But what about the dates when Da Gama doubled
the Cape of Good Hope, and De Solis entered the
River Plate? The former showed the road to
both S’Africa and Australasia; the latter
pioneered the Way for the establishment of eight
republics, with a present population of 33,000,000,
half of which, at any rate, is white. Are these
discoverers to be left out of reckoning just because
they were Dagos ? By-the-way, contrary to uni-
versal belief here, English is not the predominant
language of the Southern Hemisphere. It only
comes third to Spanish and Portuguese, and as
things are going will find itself behind Kaffir also
in 20 years time.
Move on!
YOU’LL FIND
NOTHING
7i
LIKE
l
Dunlop
Rubber heels
for Easy WalKir\g.
Obtainable all Shapes and Sizes from Leading Boot Stores
OUW.OP RUBBER CO, ALL STATES AND
N Z.
EVERYONE
who uses DUNLOP RUBBER
HEELS cannot say enough
in praise of their COMFORT
and WEARING QUALITIES,
the usual remarK being, “I
WOULDN’T BE WITHOUT
THEM,** and that’s why we
sell 00,000 Dunlop Rubber
Heels weeKly.
IF YOU have not tried a
pair of our high-grade, soft
Para Rubber Heels, you are
MISSING ONE OF THE COM-
FORTS OF CIVILISATION,
for walKing on hard un-
yielding leather heels is a
barbarous habit—tiring and
jarring to the nerves.
Specify "DUNLOP** brand
when ordering your boot-
maKer to lit heels FOR
THEY HAVE NO EQUAL.
Obtainable all leading Boot Stores.
Messrs. Fred Metters (they are worth
the cheap advt.) cast, on the seventh of this
month, the first article, in the form of a grate,
made in Australia from our own iron ore, and are
displaying the creditable result in their George-
street (Sydney) warehouse. Lithgow is respon-
sible for the ore, and at Newtown sturdy Aus-
tralians did the casting. So satisfied is the firm
with the experiment that its stoves are in future
to be made from the Australian product.
Died last week, “ Bob ” Clark, one of the
old-time fine oarsmen that N.S. Wales pro-
duced. He went early into the Commercial Bank
of Sydney, where, under the benevolent eye of
the veteran T. A. Dibbs, banker and yachtsman,
the staff breathes hard cash and athletics. There
probably isn't another big concern in Australia
which so warmly encourages physical vigor in its
staff; and at 75, after 40 years spent as general
manager, Mr. Dibbs, still firm on his feet and
without a bend in his back, is the finest fruit of
the policy. His assistant, T. B. Gaden, has been
so long in the bank that 40 years ago he was an
inspector; and it looks as though H. H. Massie,
another inspector, whose mighty hitting every-
body who ever took any interest in cricket knows
about, will continue the traditions when he is
moved up.
Premier Kidston, besides being a first-
class ironmoulder, is fascinated with chemistry,
and once had visions of becoming something dis-
tinguished in that line. While working at his
trade at Alloa (Scotland), he attended a technical
school established in connection with the South
Kensington (London) Institution. He entered
himself as a student in the chemistry class, but
as only one other name was put down for that
class it was not formed. Kidston thereupon
determined to study with the aid of text-books
and apparatus made by himself. He sat for the
South Kensington examination and passed, gain-
ing a certificate. He continued his studies, and
to get tuition secured employment in a Glasgow
foundry. _ In the winter he worked at the
foundry; in summer he toiled at the Andersonian
College. His ability attracted the attention of
Professor Thorp, the eminent chemist, who re-
commended him for a position in the chemical
department of a leading English foundry ; but
unpropitious circumstances did not allow him to
take it, and he had to stick to his trade till he left
for Australia.
“ Albatross ” writes :
While the dispute between the Shipowners’ Association
and the Merchant Service Guild was being settled in the
Australian Arbitration Court, one of the officers’ claims
was that all ships should be furnished with proper charts
and navigating instruments ; same to be kept in a chart-
room handy to the bridge, where the officer on watch
could use them at a moment’s notice. But Mr. Justice
O’Connor, after much ponderous thinking, sagely re-
marked that “he saw no reason why the chart should
not be kept in the skipper’s room.” On top of this conies
the case of the Easby, which furnishes a very obvious
(vhy, and further substantiates this claim of the Guild’s.
In giving evidence at the Marine Court Inquiry in Mel-
bourne, the second mate of the Easby said he had never
seen the chart since he had been in the ship, hut the cap-
tain had charts of his own in his room. He furthermore
stated—Are you listening, Mr. O’Connor?— that the owners
supplied no charts for the use of the officers in charge !
I ask Mr. O’Connor to picture himself, without any law-
books to refer to, being required to give a learned judg-
ment at a minute’s notice after he had been awake for 22
hours. That, is the position a ship’s officer is often in. And
if his learned judgment—given suddenly, without a chart,
which is the sailor’s one law book, and given when he has
b-en without sleep for a period that probably Mr.
O’Connor never dreamed of —is wrong, he is sure to lose
his billet ; he may lose his certificate and be disqualified
for any other billet ; and he may st rike something even
worse. How would Mr. O’Connor like it if his billet were
run on those lines'?
The Victorian detective force and its
Chief Commissioner, O’Callaghan, have plumed
themselves no end on the smart capture of young
Kurt Schonherr, the German boy who slew a vast
old reprobate—at least accounts point towards
that noun and these two adjectives—named
William Panton, up in the bush at the back of
Woodend. But really the detective force has
little to pride itself on. The German boy is a
remarkable-looking fellow, only 17J years of age,
who has picked up English in the last 12 months
or so, and speaks it atrociously. He was seen with
Panton by dozens of people, and yet it took the
defectives a whole week to find out that it was a
German they were looking for. Even then they
would not have been sure if Kurt had not told
them at the first time of asking. Much was made
of the fine Sherlock Holmes clues followed up by
the defectives; but nobody has explained why
they preferred to chase infinitesimal bits
of blue quilt instead of simply looking
for that rara avis, a 17-year-old swag-
man who couldn’t speak much English. Kurt
cannot read a word of the British language, and
didn’t even know the force was looking for him.
Had he been able to read he might have been at
Oodnadatta or Timbuctoo before the d’s discovered
that they wanted him. He had a good week’s
start, but he made the. game dead easy by staying
within 30 miles of the scene of the crime. The
case was too simple for words.
As the N.S.W. State election approaches
we get a recrudescence in the constituencies of
such lamentable stuff as the following :
He(Dr. Arthur) now believed in the principle of grabbing
all he could, and letting the devil take the hindmost.
The State’s prospects were good, and the revenue was
crowing ; therefore he thought he might as well join in
the general scramble, and get all he could for his own
district.
Deafening cheers, of course, from the audience of
“convinced anti-Socialists.” And at one time
Dr. Arthur didn’t have to appeal to that sort of
thing, but stood out boldly as an honest, non-
borrowing candidate.
“ A. 8.” : A despicable attempt to arouse
public feeling against the Arbitration Court is
made by that very stout and bingied monopoly,
the Sydney Gaslight Co. (By the way, charac-
teristically it calls itself the Australian Gas-
light Co.) On the circulars which accom-
pany its monthly accounts there appears, in
big, black type, a notification that the prices for
coke are unchanged, but that, owing to the award
of the Arbitration Court in respect to carriers, an
increase has been made in the cost of delivery.
For the ex-Premier of one Administration
to take office in the Government of a political
opponent is not uncommon in N.S.W. William
Forster and John Robertson were given to that
sort of thing. Parkes hankered for coalitions
when he found the foundations going from under
him, but always stipulated that “ Hi shall be
Prime Minister.” Waddell’s move is the least
significant of the lot, however, from a party
standpoint. It is a curious circumstance, by the
way, that ex-Premier Peacock of Victoria took
his bag and baggage into the enemy’s camp a very
short time before N.S.W. ex-Premier Waddell
carried his swag and billy-can to the same desti-
nation. And ex-Premier Propsting (Broken
Prop) of Tasmania crawled over to the enemy a
year ahead of them.
There is nothing to fear from using Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy. It is safe and sure.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
The Shipping Combine which controls the trade
between Australia and Asiatic ports is raising a
storm which threatens to assume huge propor-
tions. This Combine plays the usual rebate
business. It contracts with the regular shippers
at so much a ton freight, and at the end of 12
months a certain large percentage is refunded in
the way of rebate. But should any shipper, at
anytime in the year, load goods on any steamer
not in the Combine, he forfeits the whole 12
months’ rebate. Lately Melbourne and Sydney
have been rushed with orders from Japan for
Australian flour; but the merchants cannot find
any way of delivering the goods. Every inch of
space in the Combine’s steamers is taken up as lur
ahead as July, and most of it as far ahead as
November. The Combine won’t put on extra
boats. It says the reason is that the back
freights won’t pay, but it is quite possible that it
hasn’t the boats handy, or, more likely still, its
monopoly has made it lazy and unenterprising,
and it is sunk in a rut. For a while the Melbourne
and Sydney millers raged at each other, and
charged each other with annexing too much of the
scanty available space. But that did no good, and
was mere childishness. Now some adventurous
spirits—pillars of commerce, too—say that a State-
owned line is the only remedy, and reckon that
Socialism is a mighty good thing at times.
♦
“San Remo”: Writing 10 days before
the election, and not yet personally heated by the
conflict. I say that, after 18 years spent in
Queensland, I cannot recall one general election
which has smelt so badly of corruption as this
one. I remember the smells of the MTlwraith
elections ; but this is worse than they. In the
MTlwraith day the thing was done openly;
every pub was somebody’s pub. You could see
the thing that smelt; to-day it is hidden from the
eye, but not from the nose. The suddenness with
which various candidates—including one or two
members —retired is part of the smell.


A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;
15ct. Gold, 15s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
Patrons residing at a distance will find
It both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cfent/s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
's plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
OtJaer Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
SILVER,
265.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s. 50s. 60s. Solid Gold.
SOLID
GOLD,
£&
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;
with Pin and Chain,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’e Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Bound Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4 Jin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c; Gold. 30s.
t
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
5 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
Woio
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £8;
3 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 3s 6d, Ills 6d:
Silver Filled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
£2 12s 6d; Gold Filled, 17sSt
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6d.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, Iss.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
rt
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
tlf
KM S
W?
mm
vMTj
w
WifM
s 77i
R?
73k
iXllMi l
ggffl
ESI
as
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x 3Jin, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold “LucK”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
Bet. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Ivy Leal Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct- Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
■et Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9ct. Gold Mounted, 10s M
smaller 8s 6d. Other Style*.
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving Brush and
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s.
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Signet Ring,
20s; 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2 10b.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6£in
long, 3s 6d. Other Styles, 5s od, 15s od.
Solid
Silver
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £B,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safely
Chain, 255.
Larger, 9ct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand Clasp
Ring, 255;
Jsct. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold BucKle
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18ct. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDEKS
9ct. Gold Pin. ■
Chain and Wishh o ®*
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7i &
Book
A. SAUNDERS.
Marker, Solid Silver-mounted. New Zealand" Greenstone
long, 4s od. Other Styles, 2s 6d, 4s 6d.
Handle,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809,811, 813,815,817 George-st
Sail way Station, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


I*
t «•
m
m
v
mm
mm
m
ilii
ms
a*
* ■
Esi
■
Us
i
m
fl
i
a
■
I
m
Hi
mmm
“ The Verdicft can only g'o one way.”
“What’s that?”
“Why, that * OLD JUDGE CIGARETTES* are the
purest smoke! ”


Tenders.
Great Cobar Limited.
TENDERS are required, for the supply of
STORES to the properties of Great Cobar
Limited, for the twelve months ending 30th June,
1908. Schedule of estimated Stores required may
be had on application to Works Office, Lithgow.
Tenders close 14th JUNE, 1907. The lowest or any
tender not necessarily accepted.
G. H. BLAKEMORE, General Manager.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVENINGS at 8. WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON at 2,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MONSIEUR BEAUCAIRE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 18, a Special Revival of The
SILVER KING.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as WILFRED DENVER.
Other Characters by Mr. J. O. Williamson’s NEW
ENGLISH DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrovb.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of HONOR THY FATHER.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 18, A Purely Australian Play,
entitled —
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of QUALITY STREET.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 18th, First Production in
Australia of
OLIVIA,
A Dramatisation by W. G. Wells of
THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
WEST’S "PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty."
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
Realistic Effects and Musical Accompaniment by
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL BAND.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR OF
** MADAME TERESA
CAERENO,
The Celebrated Pianist,
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
MAY 20, 22, 25, 27, 29, 80, 31.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—6s., 45., 35., 2s.
Direction BENNO SCHEREK.
I‘OURING QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Immense Success of MISS BIJOU RUSSELL.
Great Success of EMIL AMIEL, World’s Leading Flexible
Equilibrist and Most Marvellous Bender.
THE BICKNELLS, Musical Sketch Artists.
CLEOPATRA, the Fearless & Fascinating Snake Charmer.
BONITA, World’s Champion Girl Rifle Shot.
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
Mr. FRED BLUETT. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SATURDAY, 18th MAY,
THE SVENGALIS in the Most Sensational, Inexplicable,
Mystifying Entertainment ever shown.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plays.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
Plan at Allan’s. US’ PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, 16th MAY, FRIDAY, 17th MAY,
Last Two Performances of MERELY MART ANN.
SATURDAY, 18th MAT,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in
ROMEO AND JULIET, 3 Nights.
22nd MAY-CAMILLE, 3 Nights.
25th MAY—LA TOSCA, 3 Nights.
Amusements,
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOLT.
THIRD WEEK, and Continued Success of
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Favorites in
the most popular of Drury Lane Dramas,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Spectacular Tableaus by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’& The Grand.
pE A L ICE SKATING.
THE FAVORITE WINTER PASTIME.
THE GLACIARIUM
(Over Princes Bridge, Melbourne),
OPEN DAILY.
H. NEWMAN REID, General Manager.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
THE FINEST BIOGRAPH FILM YET SHOWN
IN AUSTRALIA depicting
LIVING SCOTLAND.
A REVOLUTION IN MOVING PICTURES.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Business Announcements.
“Australia To-Day, 1907.”
£5O
is offered (in two prizes of £25 each) by the Pro-
prietors of the Patriotic Annual, “ Australia To-
Day,” for (1) The Best Poem ; (2) The Best Prose
Essay. Both Poem and Essay to be on “AUS-
TRALIA’S DESTINY IN THE EMPIRE.”
Maximum length of Poem 1000 words, and of
Essay 7000 words. The accepted works to become
the sole property of the Proprietors of “Australia
To-day.” Unsuccessful MS. can only be returned
when necessary stamps have been forwarded.
Manuscript, when at all convenient, should be
typewritten, and must be in the hands of
The Publishers, “ Australasian Traveller ” and
"Australia To-Day,” 190 Flinders St., Melbourne,
on or before JULY Ist, 1907.
xcxc
SATISFACTION
with the cycie one is riding,
is only possible when all the
bearings are perfect.
Any cycle maker can supply
-
. i
•••• *••»«»• A
Fittings, the standard of
perfection in the cycle trade.
Retd the B.S.A. HANDBOOK
Apply to H. E. Wootton, 46, Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne, representing
SchoJefield, Goodman & Sons.
çx
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
m
mww\\
Try Capillarine for your Lip
No matter what you have tried—if you haven’t
tried OAPILLARINE you haven’t had the best
Moustache Grower in Australasia. It will produce
a full Moustache quicker than anything- else.
Price 10s. 6d. Post Free Anywhere.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
The New Aromatic Tobacco.
GOLD BOND
Made in Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. BY HAND LABOR*
Best and Sweetest Smoking Tobacco.
TRY IT AND DECIDE FOR YOURSELF.
Gold Bond is sold on its own merits, and is unconnected with any Trustor Combine.
Manufacturers—
Larus & Brother Company, Richmond, Virginia
R. TOWNS & CO., 16 LOFTUS STREET, SYDNEY, Australasian Agents.
Years a»go The Bulletin abolished the
words “colony” and “colonial” as far as Aus-
tralasian territory was concerned; and now the
Imperial Conference cuts the terms out of the
Empire’s vocabulary, to the despair and indigna-
tion of Downing-street. Even the Sydney
Herald notifies acquiescence in “the recognition
given that the ‘ colonies ’ are to be regarded as
such no longer, but as self-governing, equal States
with the mother country, facing the world, and
sharing the high privilege of nationhood on equal
terms.” After this, Australians shouldn’t hanker
after “honors ” from any “ equal State.”
The anti-Sosh Yic. farmer can be as Sosh
as you like so long as it is gratis. When it isn’t,
he is a good anti-Sosh again. Lately, the farmers
around Terang arranged for a series of agricultural
lectures, and a number gave in their names as
students; but when the department proposed to
collect a trifle of £2 or £3 in all, to help pay for
advertising, hire of hall, &c., so few turned up
that the class had to be closed. These bucolic
persons weren’t asked to pay for the instruction—
merely a shilling or eighteenpence a head for a hall
to give it in ; and they preferred to lose the in-
struction.
Those who administer the Immigration
Restriction Act are very tender towards the fined
shipmaster as soon as the prohibited immigrant
turns up. Though the usual fine is £lOO the ship-
master can get it all back, less actual expenses, if
a capture is made. In the first nine months of
this financial year 42 shipmasters were fined in the
Commonwealth, and six of the fines were remitted.
So it works out that the fine is not imposed for
allowing the prohibited immigrant to land, but for
not recovering him after he is landed. But the
fine ought to be for subjecting the country to the
risk —just as a shipmaster is fined for bringing
up his boat loaded with gunpowder to the wharf,
even though the gunpwder doesn’t explode.
Six feet of dusky native recently strolled
into the apartments of the M.L. Minister of
Lands at Auckland, announced himself as a
Maori deputation, and stated his views on rabbit
destruction with remarkable lucidity. He de-
clined a seat, but dropped his mussel-bag and
flax hat, and explained : “I te pig chief. I stand
up to korero. No goot te plurry rabbit-poisonin’.
You pay te thruppenny again. That’s all; kia
ora/” After absorbing a “long peer,” hos-
pitably pressed upon him by the Minister, he
gathered up his shellfish and effects, and shuffled
off homewards. There are strange by-ways in the
life of a Maonland Minister.
Significant scrap from a recent address to
his English company by “ Sunlight ” Lever: —
There was increased competition each year for oils and
fats for the manufacture of butter substitutes. These oils
and fats had hitherto been used mainly, if not entirely,
for soapmaking ; the result being that while “ butter ”
was cheaper to the consumer, the price of soap-making
matei'ial was higher.
A lot of things may happen to a country that
goes the whole hog on the dogma of cheapness.
One of them is soap as a substitute for butter.
Some time since a few savage Tory ship-
owners and grain-shippers called the Australian
wharf lumper “a loafer,” because he agitated for
the reduction of weight in bagged grain. Now
Melbourne Age reports of the meeting of the
local Chamber of Commerce
The Cape Town Chamber of Commerce wrote drawing
the attention of the council of the Melbourne Chamber
to the complaints received that bags of wheat shipped
from Australian ports are filled to such an extent that on
arriving at ports in Cape Colony great difficulty is experi-
enced in obtaining laborers to carry them from the ship
during the process of unloading. It was mentioned that
the average weight of bags from South Australia and
Victoria in one shipment went as high as 2721 b., and some
of the bags actually weighed 3001 b.
And men ;who were called loafers lumped those
bags and stowed them ! It’s a pity that the Em-
ployers’ Federation is not forced to one shift a
year at grain lumping.
Characteristic -Australian paragraph, this
time from Cairns, North Queensland :
A German- boat last Friday took from this port 150
tons of ore, and 14 tons of cotton, which is the product
of Mr. D. Thomatis’ cotton, of the celebrated “Cara-
vonica ” variety.
So Australia digs up its copper, its wolfram, its
tin, and its lead, and doesn’t even get the job of
refining it of the dirt with which the things are
mixed; and it grows cotton, and doesn’t get
the job of putting it through even the first pro-
cess of manufacture. Germany, with its high
Protection, and its steamers subsidised to bring it
the raw products of fool-countries, gets all the
work that means skill and high wages. Australia
is just the country with the shovel and the hoe,
and the casual laborer; and G. Reid and theFree-
trade papers talk about “our great natural
industries,” while Germany grunts its satisfaction,
and adds millions to its wealth and population.
In her recently-published book of reminis-
cences, touching the origin of a personage whose
name is so often heard in ordinary conversation,
Lady Dorothy Nevill says : “As a politician,
.John Robinson was a great favorite with George
111. Hisl political career was a long one, for he
was member for Harwich for 26 years. He was,
on one occasion, bitterly attacked by Sheridan,
who, denouncing bribery and its instigators,
replied to cries of ‘Name, name !’ by pointing to
Robinson; on the Treasury bench, exclaiming at
the same time, ‘ Yes, I could nan.e him as soon as
I could say “ Jack Robinson !” ’ Thus originated
the saying still current at the present day.”
Don’t neglect a cold. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will cure it promptly. For sale every-
where, Is. 6d.*
“F.H.R.”: A Bulletin scribe (B.
11/4/’O7) writes of “ the silence of a deserted
mine.” fie evidently has never been on his lone-
some in a big empty mine, or he’d find more queer
noises than he would care to listen to. I worked
half a night shift on my own in a Gippsland mine
once. My mate had slept in, and I was expect-
ing him every minute, and every minute I heard
some noise which I thought was him. Timber
cracking, ground moving, and other sounds I
could not distinguish, were exaggerated by the
surroundings until it seemed as if a thousand
devils were on the rampage. If I stopped work
for a while the utter loneliness of my position got
on to my nerves, and the weird expectancy of
something awful about to happen filled my soul.
When my mate did arrive it sounded more like an
elephant walking over empty kerosene tins than a
mere man walking along a level. Could Vari-
schetti thoroughly describe his sensations it would
make interesting copy. A mouse nibbling at a
piece of crib paper gave me the fright of my life
that night! .
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report re wool
“During the past week a good inquiry has existed for
local scoureds, and we have disposed of a few important
lines at highly remunerative rates. Auctions will be re-
sumed on 21st instant, extending over three days, ours
being fixed for 22nd instant, when we purpose bringing
forward about 1000 bales, the bulk of which will comprise
the new clip from Queensland.”*
Thomas Gainford, aged 54, a N.S.W.
Treasury official of over 30 years’ standing, with a
salary of £250, and with seven unsatisfied judg-
ments against him, was on Thursday refused a
certificate of discharge in Bankruptcy. His lia-
bilities when he filed amounted to £1660 19s. 7d.,
and the available assets were £5 10s. 4d., salary
due. It seems an amazing amount of credit to
balance on top of so little salary.
Sydney Evening News has found the
most picturesque anti-Federal perverter to date,
one F. J. Hodges, who wants to know —
How it was that the (Federal) capital site was not de-
cided upon by the first Parliament, which was distinctly
PROVIDED FOR IN THE CONSTITUTION.
Hodges didn’t mention the clause in the Consti-
tution which “distinctly provided” that the
Federal capital should be decided by the first
Parliament. Naturally he didn’t, the alleged
clause being pure invention. What wonderful
inventors these anti-Australians are!
The removal of James Hogue from the
N.S.W. Chief Secretary’s office to the Education
Department is a sort of political come down, but
it will be a great relief to many. Jim used to be
pompous when Minister of Kids on a former
occasion. The dignity of his office was supported
as if it consisted of tiers of belltoppers one above
the other, all resting on his marble brow. But
since he became Chief Secretary the sense of his
responsibilities strained every faculty to the last
limit of stretch. If he hailed a cab he was
conscious that the eyes of the world were on him,
and that unimpeachable conduct was demanded.
He was a Ciesar’s wife (or as Caesar would have had
his wife) in breeches. Some hint that it was the
strain of his presence that broke up O’Conor and
Ashton.
The Age will begin to be a Victorian echo
of Carruthers, if David Syme doesn’t watch out.
A recent sub-leader objected bitterly to Queens-
land and Westralia sending agents to entice Vic-
torian farmers away to the northern and western
States. The wail proceeded :
Even if no particular harm were done, it is a waste of
effort for the larger Australian possessions to endeavor to
tempt people from the smaller and more thickly-peopled
States. The same energy, directed into its proper
channel of securing immigrants from overcrowded Europe,
would confer a national benefit upon the whole of Aus-
tralia, whereas to take a few dozen farmers from Gippsland
to Queensland is a mere transfer that leaves the Common-
wealth stationary, as far as population is concerned, and
arouses a feeling of injury on the part of the State sub-
jected to this “friendly interchange.”
It really doesn’t matter to Australia what State
the Australian lives in, but if David Syme has
the provincial love of country why doesn’t
he help Victoria to retain its farmers by advocating
a graduated land-tax ? That would break up big
estates and supply the farmers with land.
The Melbourne “authorities” are just
now considering a nice point in public policy or
social ethics or something. The Yarra bank
orators, Tom Mann, Chummy Fleming, andat times
sundry even less responsible persons, have been
in the habit of using the slope where the late
Victoria’s statue now stands for the Sabbath ex-
pounding of their platforms. There is still plenty
of room, and the speakers and their immediate
following would probably do no harm to the lawns
and flower-beds ; but the hoodlums, larrikins and
loungers who are ever attracted by a crowd have
no such care for the public property; consequently
the Sunday orators have been assigned a pitch on
the other side of the river, next the Morgue. As
nobody ever willingly visits that dismal locality,
the orators apprehend a considerable shrinkage in
their audiences, and are calling the Heavens to
witness this gross interference with the “ right of
free speech.” The jroint that is causing the
argument is, “ Which is the more important—the
right of free speech, in a place where it will be
widely heard, or the cate of the lawns and gardens
that belong to and are revelled in by the public ? ”
Meantime, while the abstruse point is being
settled, the more indignant Yarra-banker, who
gets wilder as he goes along, seems to be insisting
on the inalienable right of every man to tread on
his neighbor’s cabbage, if there happens to be a
sermon or a speech or anything like that on the
other side of the vegetable.
The absence of all narcotics makes Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy the safest and best that
can be procured.*
THE NIGHTMARE OF THE NORTH.
[FOT YHR BULRYIN..]
The more extreme section of the Queensland State
Labor party has broken away from Premier Kidston, and
is opposing him wherever it can manage to unearth a
candidate—thus giving Philp an opportunity to get back
into office.— News item.
From the tomb a spectre rises—
Black and tan its ghostly guise is—
’Tis the resurrected Vampire which did flap in days of
yore ;
’Tis the private spook of Cohen,
Thanks to whom that State is owin’
Unto anxious Isaac Mo, of London town, P.N’s galore !
Lo 1 the banished Spook of Squander
Lifts his banshee-wail o’er yonder,
And the northern sky grows darkened with the cloud of
I O U’s ;
Yea, the wailing, shroud-wrapped loafer
Seeks his old, auspicious Ophir—
Seeks to hand rich Queensland over to the bankers and
the Jews.
Ho! the jobs that stank to heaven—
They were numbered ten times seven ;
Are the bankrupt days returning with their swindle and
their stain ?
Hear the paean of the jobbers—
Hear the singing of the robbers—
Hear the assets whizzing pawnward when the old crowd
comes again.
Lo 1 The wild cats they shall flourish—
Bursting banks the States shall nourish,
And the sheep-like, plundered people once again be driven
forth ;
Pass ! ye spendthrifts of the ages—
Dim hands holding blotted pages—
For the great Arch-Wastrel hastens like a rocket through
the North !
Prate no more of care and thrifting—
Down the stream let us go drifting—
Drifting doomward as we drifted in the boom-cursed days
that were ;
Solvency’s a useless bubble —
Philp shall speed ye at the double-
Speed ye on through mire and trouble to a fitting
sepulchre !
VIC.
GRANT HERYEN.


I
Keep
The Flag'
Flying'!
The Flag of Health and Strength is the one you need to keep always
flying. It should remain at the top of the pole day in and day out,
nio-ht in and nisfht out. You will need to defend j our sjstem from
many ills in order to achieve this satisfactory state of being. No
matter how well you feel to-day, the possibilities are jou may not be
so well some other day. We daresay your health is sometimes much
like a weather-vane—it cannot be depended upon. It is highly de-
sirable for your own welfare, or your success in the world, that you
maintain an even tenor of health always, and there is nothing will
help you to do this so effectively as a good strengthening tonic.
If some day you find your nerves depressed from worry or over-w®rk j
you need to tone them up and bring yourself back to yoqr original
state of health. There are many causes of this depression,due to nerve
exhaustion. Too much work is just as injurious as too much brood-
ing. Going on daily in the one monotonous groove always has a
depressing and deteriorating effect upon the health. All such cases
as these need the bracing effects of a natural and scientific tonic,
otherwise such ailments as Melancholia, Insomnia, Constipation,
Dyspepsia, Loss of Memory, Absence of Will Power, and innumer-
able equally distressing effects haunt the run-down man or woman.
CLEMENTS
TONIC
Has been found invaluable in the treatment of all these kind of com-
- plaints. If any of them be spasmodic or persistent with you, don’t
you think it is worth while for you to give this marvellous medicine a
good trial. The evidence at hand goes to show that it has always
maintained its reputation, and there is one thing certain, you are sure
to reap a benefit from its use.
SOLD BY ALL STORES & CHEMISTS. PRICE 2/3 & 3/9 PER BOTTLE
MEMORY...
MEANS
Money to You
THE REASON WHY!
No man or woman can achieve success in Professional,
Business, or Social Life without the aid of a good
memory. No single cause has contributed more to the
success of thousands of men and women in all parts
of the World than the
Pelman System of Memory Training
(Just Awarded the Grand Prix and Gold Medal at the
Florence International Exhibition, 1907.
WHAT THE PEL/TAN SYSTEM DOES.
The Pelman System, by a short course of easy correspondence in-
struction, WITHOUT ANY INTERFERENCE WITH OTHER OC-
CUPATION OR STUDY, quickly trains and develops the NATURAL
memory, enabling the Professional Man, the Business Man, the Clerk,
the Student, and the Mechanic to obtain, apply, and extend their
knowledge, to broaden their experience, and to qualify for foremost
positions and higher remuneration. Knowledge makes the man, and
knowledge can only be accumulated by the aid of memory.
What a Good Memory is Worth.
Consider the sharp competition of the times—what a poor living
those make who are not quite up to the mark, and what brilliant pros-
pects lie before those who can go a step beyond the average mark—you
can then appreciate the value of a good memory. Those possessed of
one can use in acquiring fresh knowledge all the time that others require
for repetition, thus getting an enormous start of their fellows. Time is
money, and if you count the hours lost in one year through forgetfulness,
you will realise what an expensive property a bad memory is.
Whether you are a Professional or Business man, an, employee, a
clerk, or a student, it is all the same, you must train your memory if you
wish to succeed.
THE PELMAN SYSTEM OF MEMORY TRAINING
Offers you the chance of your lifetime; you cannot afford NOT to
expend the small sum and the few hours necessary to obtain its benefits,
which will last the whole of your life.
WHAT PUPILS SAY.
Mr. W. T. Stead says that he considers Mr. Pelman a benefactor
of the human race. The Rev. E. G. Roberts says that he attributes the
success of his pupils to the Pelman System. Dr. Mercer Scott says that
he is now able to learn more in half-an-hour than in a whole evening
formerly. Dr. Gordon Tanner says : —“ I passed my exams, with honors
owing to your training.” C. Atkinson says : —“ I have obtained a head
clerkship and higher pay owing to my being able to remember business
details.” A British Ambassador says: —“Your course should be taken
by every young man who is at all ambitious.” A well-known newspaper
editor says there would be no more writing on cud's and knots tied in
handkerchiefs if your course were followed.
The Pelman is the only system of Memory Training that has
received a Gold Medal, that is adopted by Governments and leading
Educationists in all countries. It has been reviewed and recommended
by the Editors of more than 600 British and foreign newspapers, and
already numbers its pupils by Tens of Thousands.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Pelman pupils in Australasia are informed that Mr. W. J. Ennever,
co-founder with Mr. Pelman of the schools established in different
countries, has arrived in Melbourne to supervise the instruction of
pupils. He will be pleased to hear from intending pupils, and invites
the co-operation of all old pupils in bringing the Pelman System to the
notice of friends and acquaintances.
A GUARANTEE.
If you are desirous of permanently strengthening your mental
efficiency, and wish to possess a memory reliable and accurate, a memory
that will make you successful in life and a money-winner, you have the
absolute guarantee of the Pelman School that you can attain all this if
you enter for the course and carry out the easy instructions arranged
for you.
Write to-day for free descriptive pamphlet. Address—
The Secretary, Pelman School of Memory,
3 Gotch Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne.
xc
çz
VilalJßusiness Secrets
Men have sweat blood and spent fortunes to learn
these very Business Secrets which YOU may now read
at your leisure and master at ease, The crystallized ex
perience of prosperous and mighty men of business is
placed at your disposal by this line publication. Men
do not be content to plod and blunder along. Do not
waste time and money and effort stud> m £° v ® r J? u *'”®ta
problems which others have solved. Do not waste
chances and lose opportunities through business ignor-
ance when help—practical, valuable help is so near at
hand —yours if you will only sit down and write for it.
Tells you how to get. into business, how to manage and
make a success of ir ; how to sell goods : how to secure and organize salesmen agen s ,
of valuable pointers and plans for clerks, salesmen and manufacturers . how to buy a . business’
how to collect debts, how to judge credits; how to write
letters ; how to write ads., how to keep,and check them : how to stop leaks my tr ■ d
to treat clients; page upon page of priceless and practical working business met , ,
proven for the man in the office, the man in charge of other men. for the worker this boo
short cut to better days, better salary, more power— success. nlmis
The Book is crammed full, not of mere advice or theory, but actual, working, bus E,
which you can put into operation in your own work to morrow morning, ibis is no i •
money cheerfully returned if you’re not pleased with the hook. Me ca Qfl
dissatisfied customers. To get the Volume well known, the price for the present is Is 9d ro g
paid WORK, by the same author, which you ought to read in “niunction wdh the
above, is called “ Seven Practical Opportunities ” giving seven Price also
man or woman, young or old, may start at with little of no capital a tortu .
Is 9d postage paid, or THE TWO VOLUMES POST FREES ANYWHERE FOR a*.
A. J. StMlTid till c«J,, 14 Muuter Street, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Racket of Twelve ~, ... Is
Packet of Ten lOd
Australia is represented at the confer-
ences in London by four politicians—Deakin of
Victoria, Lyne of N.S.W., Hughes of N.S.W.,
and Dugald Thomson of N.S.W., and two of these
four come from Sydney. Not one Queensland,
3.A., Westralian, or Tasmanian is on the delega-
tion. If the matter is to go by States, V ictoria
has a shade less than its share of representation,
and N.S.W. has nearly three times its share,
while the other States have been robbed alto-
gether. Yet Joey Carruthers of Sydney is the
only State Premier who is grumbling. “No
one,” he said, “reading the reports would im-
agine there was such a place as N.S.W.” Well,
who in thunder expected them to know there was
such a place as any individual State? Thomson,
Hughes, and Lyne have sense enough to know
that they simply represent Australia, and so they
talk of Australia.
The Board appointed by N.S.W. Govern-
ment to inquire into the re-granting of the im-
provement leases which Willis and others obtained
for various persons, “at the usual fee of Is. per
acre,” has held its first sitting. When it assem-
bled at the Lands Office it was confronted by what
looked like the whole of the Sydney legal
profession. Every barrister and solicitor of note
seemed to be there on behalf of somebody or
somebody’s mortgagee, and the least that the
legal profession can do is to offer Willis a com-
mission on its takings. As a matter of fact no
one appeared for Willis. The Board, at this
meeting, did nothing but answer a storm of ques-
tions pelted at it by the Bar. One question it
didn’t answer was whether, in determining the
future destination of the land affected, it would
consider present day conditions or those prevail-
ing when the leases were granted, and the legal
profesh seemed anxious about that point.
Melbourne’s divorce cases at the present
sittings, being sought less for desertion than for
misconduct, drew larger crowds than usual. One
giddy little co-re, abarmaid, being discovered in the
dark bar parlor at midnight with her arms round
the boss's neck, was peremptorily escorted to a bed-
room by the indignant wife, who then locked the
door with them both inside, and spoke firmly and
dispassionately to the lady through the rest of
the night, and in the morning induced her to sign
a confession of her (and the husband’s) guilt.
This quaint little fairy actually came into
court and denied the confession, saying the
other had “forced” it from her. But Justice
Hodges, having ascertained that she was still
keeping the bar and the house for her publican,
the wife having departed after' the confession,
cynically remarked that she might now go and
put her arms round the gentleman’s neck ad
libitum, and hoped the pair would appreciate the
process the better now that there was no legal bar
to it. Another case was that of a country station-
master, who, desiring to occupy a certain pretty
cottage with his young wife, was only granted a
ease on condition that the owner was taken in as a
boarder. This petitioner was so trustful that he
wentaway on fishingexcursions without the lodger,
and only suspected mischief when the wife fled
with the said lodger and declined to return.
Even then he Went and -interviewed the pair in a
calm frame of mind, and when the betrayer offered
him £loo—as compensation or bonus or something
—he placidly declined ;he didn't kick him, “ be-
cause he didn’t think of it.” Perhaps the fact
that this hubby abbreviated his wife’s name,
Appoloymee, into the pet-name of “ Snook,”
accounted for much of the trouble. Still a
sympathetic jury awarded him the full damages
claimed, £5OO.


BOY’S BEAD
ONE SOLID SORE
Hair All Came Out and He Suffered
Very Much—Under Doctor Three
Months and No Better—Perma-
nently Cured at Small Expense.
CUTICURA REMEDIES
WORK WONDERS
Mr. A. 0. Barnett, proprietor of a
general store in Avard, Oklahoma,
tells in the following grateful letter
how Cuticura cured him and his son
of terrible eczemas:
“My little boy had eczema. His
head was one solid sore, all over his
scalp; his hair all came out, and he
suffered very much. I had a physician
treat him, but at the end of three
months he was no better. I remem-
bered that the Cuticura Remedies
had cured me, and after giving him
two bottles of Cuticura Resolvent,
according to directions, and using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment on him
daily, his eczema left him, his hair
grew again, and neither he nor myself
have had any eczema since.”
As to his own case, Mr. Barnett says:
“ I suffered with eczema, a burning,
itching, breaking out on my face for
more than a year. I took treatment
from physicians for several months,
which' did no good. I was then
advised to try Cuticura. I took
six bottles of Cuticura Resolvent, and
used Cuticura Soap and Ointment
freely every day. I began to improve
soon after starting to use them, and
when I had taken the six bottles of
the Resolvent my face had become
clear, and all eruptions had left me.
“We use the Cuticura Soap and
Ointment in our family now for
general use, and it keeps our skin
soft and healthy. I cheerfully recom-
mend the Cuticura Remedies for all
cases of eczema. A. C. Barnett,
Avard, Oklahoma, Mar. 30,1905. ”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
Mailed Free, “All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W-
xc
GOES LIKE SIXTY <K mmm
SELLS LIKE SIXTY
| SELLS for SIXTY
GILSON
IGASOLENE
r ENGINE
o For Pumping, Cream
Churns, Wash Ma-
chines, etc. EEEE TOT AT.
Ask for catalog-all sizes
GILSON mfg. co. ltd. Dopt. i., Guelph, Ontario
LADIES'
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Muhpiiy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO,
Ladies’ Tailors,
9 4 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
ULULW
781 X-
Cp-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical ‘Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
I QUEENSLAND BRANCIf—
-308 Eagle
Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOYVS BROS.,
A.M.p. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VfSIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Solk Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
105,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia l at tghed ! / /
an d kee a ugh ing.
No. 3.
Red Harry is.
alifobnia
YRUPovfICS.
m
vg
OF
An Aqrceabte
Mild and
nild and
Cfficadou
tmcadou*
Laxative*
Gentle _
fret Prom®-
in Actio^fc
acts pleasantly and promptly, cleanses
the system gently and effectually when
bilious or costive.
California Syrup of Figs is a positively reliable and at
the same time the most agreeable family remedy for
Constipation, Sluggish Liver, Biliousness, Indigestion,
Depression, Feverishness, Loss of Appetite, Headache,
and all kindred complaints, speedily restoring health,
appetite, energy and good spirits. California Syrup
oi Figs is strengthening and invigorating— not weaken-
ing and lowering, as most ordinary pills and purgatives
a . re * here is no discomfort or inconvenience. It
simply aids and seconds Nature, and its results are
healthful regularity and freedom from dangerous
impurities in the system. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
r
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES*
OXFORD,
10/6
In glace kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
FREE.a^'i
Our Booklet, “Shoelight,” that illus-
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
xcz
LEEMING’S BOOT Stores
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
$
r
4
pa.
FIRST AGAIN
In the TARGO PLORIO RACE, de-
cided in Sicily on April 21st—a contest
ranking- second in importance to the
Vanderbilt Cup and Grand Prix—the first
six cars were all fitted with
Michelin Tyres.
This race was run over roads that are more than usually
bad, and through one of the most mountainous
districts in the world, and is the most severe test of
endurance and reliability that a car or tyre can be
subjected to.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
85 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
PA TENT TWENCENT
n
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene,
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Bracket & Hanging Lamps.
DOES your LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS ?
IF NOT, WRITE TO s-
WELSBACH LIGHT C?
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
230 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS., BRISBANE.
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH, W.A.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Underwriters’ Association fights shv of
doing any further business with Victoria’s faded Crtv of
empty eS dw e es nt « rateS r ’ °- win P to the.great numbed of
out the metropolitan^ area, °about tf'v?/
BaUa“afc re while e fo? ree ~ f ° r 1906 "ere reported Jon,
was 20ner h th ® pre Y 10us s,x years the average
was 20 per cent., or one in five. It is suggestive of
Dunedin, ? the busted and immoral early ’elghtfes when
andthe burnt on'fd aSSUmed tobe a “se of incendiarism,
Tn nublichout h 1 °? ei i ly chaffed about kerosene
in puDlic-house bars, and took it quite kindly.
. “ Sussex ”: A fairish Australian trade is SDring-
ingup in ‘ butterine,” though you don't see it in the
butterman’s window. Butterine is margarine in the
superlative degree, and is made of fat—the
ex teiftoTt h e ” ti . rel y suited to its manufacture. The
° f trade ls hmited by the supply of cauls
of d tpT ° fh WO manufacturers handle most of the cauls
Maoriland tfcl The fi U§h h e a ed the Commonwealth and
Maoriland. The finished article is sold for the most part
to thrifty ships captains for the forecastle table and P for
steerage passengers. And, though it isn’t butter on the
18,1 t , to be despised. It has all the essential oils
for flavor, and most of the food equivalents of the article
or fishiness n 0t f develo P mottle, streakiness
bi/nds^n; r a a S i,yda UtterS ° f the Steera «' e and forecastle
* * * «
Certain London newspapers have been saving
nasty things about a habit indulged in by some Govefnoif
“^concessions > ” I hi’ n°° obtain . fo *’ a mere song vlluable
concessions in their colonies for private svndioatps
arleTrfof'thr' “T* J hat the Pernor himself "is a
doesn’t transnlp^ him ' d,cate > tb ough that circumstance
litM’nr™?? t U J . aU;r - A S'laring case was that of a
, °i 1 . ’ wbo obtained from the Balfour Govern-
ment a long lease at a low rental of very valuable pearl
fisheries On resigning his office the Governor became
befor d Thl 0 en t d h om nP fi bhat owned tbe fisheries, and
of 75 p e h r cent Thi r V ! ar th , e co - declared a dividend
or hr P f r Cen , t * Thls case doesn’t stand alone and thp
to*iss u tfa*"ircidar m' S the
even ,f ai-effit gl, ' y G ° vernors to to look honest
* * * •
maid ” C l a in a £ lan i. paper states that “canned mer-
l* 1 soor \ be obtainable in London and Paris. The
strangely-named victual is announced as a Queensland
J 'hf th dUB ' or f ; that marine beast was
oaiiea a mermaid by the early navigators, bacause of its
habit o rearing itself upright in the water with its
seTvfgetSdon U * S a clean feeder ’> living 0,1
sea vegetation , the flesh, when properly cured resembles
It Is bUt a deli « a te flavor kl?ks own?
is htt e knmvnfn’a /' ,? rd mary table dish, the dugong
s little known in Australia. Occasionally one may see it
it might n hp 6 Brisbane Ash-shop window's, but seldom—
at more correct to say never in Svdnpv nr
tive^properties^ 6 °i’ °* the (h f' on * is credited with cura-
grlse V of?heTocaitffimai! lol ' ted s P ecifics 10 consider the
*.* • *
by T specili a Ac?S n p e , n i ,? La ? d . Co * was established
Dy special Act of Parliament in 1825, so it is a nale
veteran old-man-of-the-sea, aged 82 years PairiLim
ho?ds a 3S4 7fif 227,500 V! 9100 shares of £2s'each. Co P
holds 334,765 acres on the north-west coast of Tasmania
with Burme as its headquarters. With that magnificent
domain its dividends are microscopic, thanks to~stupen
dous n.udd ement, and to the fact that, while it won’t
let the public in to most of the estate, it won’t itself do
thl f W ° rth men l tlon ing with the land. Only during
t e last few years have the dividends reached 21 per
Tner ce P nt eV WhIt y the Y the /' vere a « Httle^s
. lei cent, vvnat the Governor ” and Court of Directors
e!- L m nd °S absorbls , n °t stated. The V.D.L. Co. made a
effort when it built the Emu Bay Railway and
sold it to another co. for enough money to pay-off its
! m!i* nbUre an i d return £5 a share to the V.D.L share-
i'? d y s ‘, ft is keen on unearned increment; if it sells a
block of land to a man it keeps the one adioinino- and so
makes the man toil to improve its unsold property
Burme is the centre of a fertile district, and its P iron and
V“ ke ‘f tho port i" Ta» d
oh„S „«Tr ?,K* “ lte the VM - °O-
- L * • • •
About', tlie most persistent mining township
foi hanging- on to the map of Australia by the claw' of
haokm a t"h unexpected reasons is Mt. Usher (Q.). Away
back in the sixties it was the Crocodile goldfield It
be'buried d but obstinately re& to
he huried, or if it was buried its tail always protruded
from the grave For the last 40 years it has been pedodb
caliy resuscitated: by such things as the temporary sue
cess of the Windsor, the Who'd V ThS n
Block and Pillar, and other promising but d—d unt’ruth-
ful Quartz properties; also by the traffic to Mount Morgan
in the days when the road to the Mount ran thrS
Crocodile before the railway was built ; by the cash ex-
P c.m d m d - a al d o lo bv
sciieme, also by the considerably more cash snent-
hsrli° apbal f n , 08bo . rne ’ s Greenvale, a second but very
Wn dl t h Prin * ed edl i', o ' l of Mfc - Morgan that nearly wrecked
Usher and the nno the *' e WaS the Golden oave . Mt
£30 > 000 or so spent on that property, be-
sides the fair amount of gold won : also the 'ittemnf-
dredge the old alluvial field, and its failure! "^Zhen
so '; sm ) o 'Tnf ?h i OW 'I’the 1 ’ the dred -S e h, ’'‘g up, and the
support of the place was Manriel’s Victor land it
ffioked none too good), the Dee rush arrived and "gain
saved the situation and the several pubs. In spite of so
fi la T^ ly^J^^ ar TT 1 each new . exte nsion of its lease of life
finds Mt. Usher ready to arise and rejpice, and the miles
of broken bottles ever accumulate around its pubs and
drunks fall gracefully into prickly-pear bushes and'not
holes, and everybody is hilarious till the mainstay breaks"
fidhire ltot ° f failures i 8
THE DIRGE OF THE OLERK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Twice a hundred thousand hotly
Struggle city-wards to-day ;
Clerks in office—men in motley
Puppets name them as you maj r ,
They ve surrendered hope and honor
In the commonplace of slaves ;
They’ve betrayed their birth and manhood,
Marching to forgotten graves.
Sons of townsmen, sons of farmers,
follow on the city’s lure 5
Hath the country lost its charmers,
Aye the plains and ridges poor ?
Pity them, ye men of sinew,
Carving out your men’s careers,
There is nothing small within you,
Men of action, pioneers 1
They are artificials—shirkers
Of life’s true primordial rule,
Doing work of women-workers,
Clinging to a tripod stool ;
Bound in service, soul and body,
To the ledger and the desk,
Puffing out their little shoddy
Manhood in a mien grotesque.
They must smoodge and cringe for ever
To self-seeking underlings,
And account their best endeavor
Nothing in the scheme of things ;
Was it thus your great forefather
Pushed the primal forest back—
That his son desert it ? Bather
Be genteel—an office hack 1
Sons of Britain, Celt and Saxon,
Here are lands to conquer still •
Dally not an image waxen
When we’ve empty plains to fill,
Thirsting for the sweat of conquest,
Listening for the tread of man ;
Ye’ve been lured upon the wrong’ quest,
Till ye wither ’neath the ban 1
N.S.W.
W.


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
+
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on taking them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective.
.Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues* and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have, been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose ot Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become qiiite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
10
CUARAN^^^
PIPES
totheTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
MEN
suffering- from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug Co., 88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “ Medical Review," London, 25 years
chief consultant & Locum Tenens to Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostician, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for over 30 years. Cure Guaranteed.
“HARNESS THE WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
VERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming
Implements
OP ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
op
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co.
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
PRICE 2716
xcz
By Appointment tc H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
xc
SALT *
“THE HOSPITAL,” London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
“This compound salt is particularly suitable for children. It is economical)
and when used instead of common salt in bread-making, adds to the
phosphatic value of the bread.”
Agents—Harrison A ttivood. Sydney.
‘“BRUNSWICK” K€ machine.
/A#
xzc
ç
NOT ICE-CREAM Machine please
notice, but a genuine household
REFRIGERATOR, that will preserve
all your vegetables, meat, butter, milk,
etc., etc., and give you Ice as well, and
—CHEAPLY, much more cheaply
than getting Ice from the Ice Factory.
A half horse-power is all that is
required to drive this little machine, and
it will save its cost the first year.
Write tor Illustrated Catalogue and full
particulars.
Sole Agents,
BUZACOTT & GO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney,
WATCHES GIVEN AWAY!!
NO MONEY REQUIRED.
We will present you with an
INGERSULL KEYLESS WATCH in exchange for
One Pound’s worth of
PETERS,
NESTLE’S or
KOHLER’S
Chocolate
Wrappers
or Labels.
Which can be collected Anywhere and Everywhere. Any sizes of these Brands will be accepted.
We Give you the Following Start towards your First Watch.
ST OUT OUT THIS ADVERTISEMENT, enclose it with 15/- worth of Labels or Wrappers,
and your Name and address, and a Watch will be sent by Return of Post.
ANY FURTHER PARTICULARS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM
Jas. Henderson & Sons, Haymarket, Sydney
Consult HERR R
Specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and ISTerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and DespaiF.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Di nn(l PIIRF Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
DLUIJU UUnt * lUL.O. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES* 6s. COURSES, 23<6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
llUpnlf Ufnmpn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23,6.
Wedlv WUliacii Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEOHOE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTONQUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN,
Brifish=JTustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
PflCe /Sd POST FREE, £1 per year^
» i ivt in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
V { -/
im.
\y
TPHIS watch is absolutely exact in timekeeping-, and
* is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and set without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
c nnts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of any £lolos.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne
Go od H ealth
is yours if you will exercise
your bowels with Reuter's
Little Pi’ls. Remember they
are very different from all so-
called “ laxatives.” They do
not blast out the bowel duct
the same as jalap, salts, sed-
litz powders, and the old fash-
ion pill, instead they are
a bowel tonic that gently
stimulates the intestines to
normal action so that they
supply the precious digestive
juices which are so necessary
to Good Health.
Renter’s Soap cures pimples and
blackheads:
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 G-eorge Street,
SYDNEY.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 184 Q. r a _ .. . _ J
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND 0n Securit y of ‘ Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
oIP n«h » o! rbme d,'’ Pa ? tora ' and Agricultural Lands, or on the Secunty
De *» ent « r es» Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand SWT* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to _0 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine”
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.KC., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Shoit, Esq. , James Burns Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Winchcombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I. A., FF. A FSS
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
0
I;
©
rT\
IP
K
3
1
T 33
rX3
C*
u
X
ra
K
z
FROM
111.5
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
FROM
£.11.5.
I WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcocr&C“ 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
&
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
xczxcz
THROW away yoitr trum* et
You can cure dealness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write for booklet, free (men
boning- this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 229 Collins St.. Melbourne.
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE] MEANS OP SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free o 2 charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
■HI
DO YOU KNOW
THAT YOU CAN OBTAIN
SELECTIONS BY
THE ...
FAMOUS
ROYAL BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND
On Those
Extremely
Popular
9
RECORDS
CYLINDER and DISC?
IN THE COMFORT OF YOUR OWN HOME you can delight your Family and Friends
ivith the WONDERFUL MUSIC of this WORLD-RENOWNED BAND.
CALL AND HEAR THEM PLAY.
An interesting- Booklet giving History of the Bind and Lists of Records
MAILED FREE on Application.
Columbia Phonograph CoGen 1. ,
Largest and Oldest Talking- Machine Manufacturers in the World,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
UM
co
FOR ARTIS VIC FANCYWORK
Beautiful Silk Pieces for Patchwork
xcz
extra superfine
QUALITY.
Brilliant and Elaborate
Patterns.
Very Striking and
Effective
NO PLAIN MATERIAL
AT ALL.
LOVELY contrasting
DESIGNS AND COLORS.
xcz
Sufficient for a Large Cushion Top, 36 x 20 inches, 3- carriage paid; Two
Parcels for 5/-; or Enough for a Full-Size 72 x 80 inches Quilt for 17/6,
complete with Patterns and Printed Directions and Metallic Cutting Shapes.
JJAYING secured a large stock of Silk Remnants of the very highest quality and the most beautiful designs we
~ ■ have madethem up into Parcels of well assorted patterns and colors, just suitable for really Artistic Patchwork
Each parcel contains sufficient Silk Pieces to make a Large Cushion Top or P llow Cover, measuring 38 inches bv 20 inches
or 30 inches by 24 inches. Please understand clearly, these are not ordinary Silks such as you oan purchase in the usual
way. If you were willing to pay ten times the amount we charge you c uid not buv similar materials and
patterns in any shop in Australia. These silks were specially imnorted for the scarf and tie trade, and both the patterns
and the quality are something beyond comparison with anything of the kind you have ever seen before If VO u
doubt this, send Six Pence for an assortment of Sample Pieces. They will make exquisitely pretty Pin Cushions, Brush
and Comb Bags, Tidies Doiley Centres, &o. We have fixed the price of the Parcel nt 35.. that is actually below the usual i
eostot the material. but we have bought it under exceptional circumstances am s give you th«» hpnpfit of thp hnrfmin
IF YOU NOT DELIGHTED WHEN YOU OPEN THE PARCEL YOU MAY SEND IT RIGHT BACK AND HAVE
YOUR MONEY RETURNED. Two Parcels for 55., or enough Silk Pieces to make a Full-Size 72 by 80 inch B d Ouiit
for 17s. 6d. carriage paid. You could not buy the commonest silk for this money, and every piece we send vou is of
beautiful design and exquisite coloring. There is not a plain piece in any of the Parcels. Wirh each Parcel we enclose
Full-Size Patterns of the Two Mosaic Designs shown above, with directions for making up. We also provide metal l
shapes to sun .lily the cutting of the pieces and to ensure accuracy of the design. Send Postal Notes of any State.
The Union Manufacturing & Agency Company.
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Uf>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, Cd.
360
Former Price, 245.
# t 'iili l
% ft i f
2110
Former Price, 12s.
4010
Formes’ Price, 12s.
280
Former Price, 14s.
-Avii/X"
4750
Former Price, 16s.
2170
Former Price, 18s.
220
Former Price, 245.
Former Price, 14s.
•v:
5500
Former Pr'ee, 16s.
x.
Bl
s ,T\X
fix
2300
Former Price, 16s.
THE END IN SIGHT!
xcz
ONLY A FEW WEEKS MORE, AND OUR LEASE WILL BE AT AN END.
Then you will only be able to secure the World Famous
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
THEIR REAL VALUE, WHICH IS FAR ABOVE OUR CLOSING-OUT PRICE.
MAIL ORDERS
We will forward any article
here illustrated or in our
Catalogue upon receipt of
25., with the distinct under-
standing that money will be
refunded if goods are not
exactly as represented.
Don’t Delay, Come
or Send AT ONCE.
YOUR CHOICE
Of any Article in Stock
Formerly
sold from
8/- to 24/-
xcz
EACH
Send for our
Beautifully Illustrated
Catalogue, posted free.
CAUTION.
We have no Branch Shop or
Agents, and our Diamonds
can be obtained at OUR
TWO SHOPS ONLY.
BARRIOS DIAMOND GO.
100 KING STREET, SYDNEY
52 Swanston St., Melbourne
\J/
&
2230
Former Price, 14s.
4570
Former Price, 18s.
\JJ 'A
\\A 7 /
"//
U
s> N
2290
Former Price, 245.
10
Former Price, 18s.
2140
Former Price, 245.
5010
Former Prion, 16s.
7250
Former Price, ISs.
M/
X-
'C'v
7
rfwr
2330
Former Price, 245.
330
Former Price, 245.


When you Hear
You will
certainly
buy one.
Mr. Edison’s
Phonograph
Please do not confuse the genuine
Edison with the irritating imitations
you may have heard.
Thomas A. Edison, the world’s
greatest inventor, has spent thirty
years bringing his phonograph up to
its present standard, and to-day a
rich-toned Phonograph, free from
all mechanical noises, awaits your
trial.
But, of course, to get the very
best results you must hear it with
the genuine Edison Gold-Moulded
Records.
Ask us for the name of your
nearest dealer and some interest-
ing printed matter.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH GO. OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Don’t
"DOCTOR”
DEAFNESS
Medicine not Needed
in 75% of Cases of Old
or Y
Our FRET: BOOK Tells You Why.
MEDICINES} are dangerous things for you to “ doctor ’
deafness with—UNLESS you take a doctor’s advice.
We don’t use medicines, but we cure 75 per cent, of
eases of deafness of people who write us. 75 per cent,
of cases of deafness don’t
need medicines. If your
case is one which NEEDS
medicine, you need a doctor.
Write us the
History of
Your Case and
We will a«2*»
vise you. Free.
xcz
the
electron
brinosbw*
It makes no difference
whether you are old or
young, whether you have
been deaf long or only a little while, whether you are
VERY deaf, or only hard of hearing—for WHATSOEVER
the CAUSE of your deafness, we CAN and VVE WILL
tell vou whether you need medicine. If you DO, we
CAN’T cure you. If you DON’T, we can.
We can, beeau*% as you will see from our Ear Book,
which we will send you FREE we have cured hundreds
of cases similar to yours. This book tells you HOW and
WHY we can. It tells you the names and addresses of
hundreds of people who formerly were deaf, and who
could only be cured by using Mr. Vernon’s Electricons.
Remember, you have everything to gain,, because if
we can’t Cure your case wa will
say so at once.
That costs you nothing, and it is surely worth while
to you to FIND OUT, and probably regain your hearing
perfectly. Write us To-day.
THE L R. VERNON CO.
60-64 HUNTER STRHET SYDNEY.
DA. J. CDLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYHE
Caution-— Ermine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, Arc. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life's
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Me/bourne.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
JA. Price (Id, from The Jlulletix Office.
cx
M. S. S.
CURES
ABSOLUTELY
indigestion
Constipation
Biliousness
AND ALL
DIGESTIVE
ILLS.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP gives you
health because it restores your stomach,
liver and bowels to natural working
activity , ill-health is then impossible It
gives you strength because it enables
you to digest your food and to draw from
it the nourishment it contains: strength
is then assured
MOTHER
xcz
SYRUP
For five years I suffered intensely from
indigestion. If I ate anything solid I
was certain to vomit, so I had to exist
on liquids. I tried many medicines, but
nothing did me any good but MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP. That cured me com-
pletely.”—Mrs S. E Bennett. 19. Cootes
Street, South Melbourne
STRENGTH
Off with the Old Duds, on with the New I
A CREDIT TO THE COMMONWEALTH
F. J. Palmer
and
Son’s
50/- Suits To Order.
Hand finished, and made throughout on our own premises.
SEE THE MATERIALS. We mail patterns, tape,
etc.. FREE. Write for them To-Day
F. J. PALMER (&L SON, Please send Patterns, etc., to
Name —
Address
F. J. Palmer & Son,
TAILORS (SL
. . . TILERS,
George St., HaymarKet
and Parß St.
Sydney.
TIE “LOUIS” VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guinea a yard, and wears longer.
the new LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
softness of texture, and no other fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
light and shade.
Every yard of the “Louis” Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
stamped with the name spelled L-O-U-l-S and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
xczxcz
Electrical Novelties, Conjuring Tricks,
Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
Write for Price List B.
doker’s Spanish dowel Case Surprise.
This case is neatly made of wood, decorated to represent a treasure
.box. Every home should possess one of these mirth producers,
which never fails to enliven the company. Makes an ideal Booby
prize. A great joke on inquisitive people, as immediately the lid is
removed the whole box collapses, and the spring sausage inside flies
in all directions. A good surprise for posting to friends. Price
•9c/., posted free to any address in Australasia.
xcz
The Joker WINDMILL or LUNG TESTER.
This novelty consists of a small flat box with a
figure on the top of it holding a windmill. The
box contains soot, and is perforated with small
holes along the front near the mouthpiece. Ask your victim to try the strength of his
by seeing l how many times he can make the windmill revolve. Immediately he
blows into the mouthpiece the soot flies out, covering* his face, and making* him appear
i as he has just left a chimney sweeping job. Causes roars of laughter. Securely packed
and posted in any address in Australasia free on receipt of //- Full directions enclosed.
Surprise Squirt Gramophone.
This Squirt is one of the most novel
and up-to-date jokes to be found in
our varied stock. It is an exact
model of a genuine gramophone, and
it looks so harmless that, when your
victim is operated otr, he receives
the greatest shock he ever had in his
life. Ask your friend would he like
to hear your new miniature gramo-
phone, and of course he accepts the
invitation, and, immediately he
becomes interested, squeeze the
ball inside the instrument and watch
result. Full directions enclosed.
Price 1/3, post free anywhere.
E L HUTCHINSON,
NEW YORE* NOVELTY CO,
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Up-to-date Fancy Goods Storo in Australia.
“Cockaigne” : The memoir of W. Crooks,
M.P., of Woolwich (England), is just issued. He
was a real Oliver Twist—a workhouse boy. He
despairs of ever finding anything elite to interest
him as that book did. He knew Bumble well,
and actually himself wanted “ more,” though he
didn’t dare to ask for it. Fortunately, he escaped
Fagin and Sikes.
From a Shanghai correspondent :
China is having a bad time of it lately. About 1,500,000
men, women and children are now dying of cold and
starvation. The cold will decrease, but the want of food
will increase. Smallpox has broken out, and is going
through the starving wretches at a frightful rate. Then
in the centre of China there is a rebellion. At present
there are over 18,000 Chinese students being educated, in
Japan— in other Words being filled up with incendiary
and anti-European ideas, and then let loose in China.
The Chinese returned students are chiefly carrying on
this rebellion. “ China for the Chinese ”is the war cry.
We may soon expect to hear “India for the Indians,”
“Java for the Javanese,” “ Burmah for the Burmese,”
etc., all being but the prelude for the grand war cry of
“ Asia for the Asiatics.” Japan, of course, expects to be
in command, and to gather in the spoils.
A letter from a passing unbeliever :
During the session of the Congregational Union
in Sydney, several speakers were at great pains to
point out the evils that might follow a more lax observ-
ance of the Sabbath, and one reverend gentleman con-
tended that the Church was the greatest friend of the
working man, in protecting-him from Sunday labor. This
sort of argument is all very well for those wdio know no
better. In France, where Sunday labor is a recognised
institution, the working man, using the term in the very
widest sense to include all who work for a living, such as
actors and journalists, are better off than in many coun-
tries where Sabbatarianism runs riot. In France there
is what is known as the Six Days Ordinance. This
enforces the Biblical commandment, “Six days
shalt thou labor,” which Moses laid on the table
of the Hebrew House of Reps. No one is permitted
to work his employees more than six days, and, should
he do so, he has not only to face perdition hereafter, but
a heavy fine at the hands of the nearest magistrate, at
once ; and, as magistrates are on the spot, and perdition
isn’t, the law is more successful in this matter than the
church. The result is that, while theatres, restaurants,
and all places of amusement are in full swing in Paris every
Sunday, they are run by different staffs, and the only result
of the Sunday labor is that a large number of people are
in w'ork who might otherwise be unemployed. The same
thing has been accomplished without the aid of the law
in American newspaper offices. Sunday issues are invari-
able, but the American reporter is sure of one day a week
clear, which he never is in the newspaper offices of Aus-
tralia, though they publish only six issues a week.
“Belaying Pin” continues the nautical
discussion :
Agree with “Sailor” (B. 18/4/’O7) that Australians do
not go to sea in any quantity on deck. But they are
more numerous than he wots of. I know of one first-class
firm of shipowners (sail) in Maoriland who give preference
to Australians and obtain six of them out of every eight
engaged. That firm admits it can get better work from
them, and they are more reliable. After a couple or three
years in one constant trade between Kaipara and Aus-
tralia, the desire to see other lands seizes them, and they
ship on some lime-juicer for other parts. I have
met them all the world over. “Sailor” says: “See-
ing the comparatively good pay and conditions, Aus-
tralian sailors ought to he good.” And they are ;
and therein lies the crux of the whole question.
Better pay, better food, and better conditions will soon
bring a desirable class of men to sea, and stop the
lamentable decrease in the marine J. Bull. The
parsimony of the British shipowner is proverbial. Whilst
Germany has made prodigious strides in the matter of
wages, food, and comfortable quarters, England has gone
hack, and things are worse than they were 20 years ago.
I venture to affirm that were the Orient and other com-
panies to emulate Australian methods of obtaining good
men, good results would assuredly follow; and those
lamentable scenes of drunkenness and obscenity so fre-
quently witnessed in both Melbourne and Sydney would
be things of the past. Prior to the ’9O strike Australia
had the pick of the British mercantile marine. When
the subsequent depression compelled seamen to accept
a reduction until their wages were only £5 per month,
the majority of them went to Westralia, then booming.
Some went up to the fields and made money. One of
them I knew well is now a prominent mine manager.
But most of them worked on the wharves, dredges, and
railway good sheds. This allowed an opening for many
foreigners, who have stayed with us ; and in justice to
thenr they have proved good men and citizens. The
Union Co) of Maoriland does more to encourage the home
product to adopt the sea as a profession than any other,
and something should be done by the Commonwealth
Government in the same direction, either by subsidising
the cos. or otherwise. For we must prepare to man our
own navy.
YE POETIC
EGOTIOST
FOR THE BULLETIN.
He bails me in a corner and lie slings,
On fierce, chaotic breath, Homeric things
Though I fix him with my eye,
Like a pin-stuck butterfly,
He only wags a wider set of wings.
And often I have seen the traffic reel,
Headlong backward, horse and foot, upon its heel,
Just to get another peep
At this gaseous rubbish-heap
Of stale Parisian pips and orange-peel.
He gurgles, and he seeks the treble clef
Of a waiter shouting orders to the chef,
And I feel my bosom sink
As I wonder what he’ll think
If perchance he should discover I am deaf !
N.S.W.
HUHT McCRE


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, .7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Qational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock, £43,435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial IQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
. .FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725,
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) - LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)aui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
PDAMTQ rtPACTC on Australia, New Zea-
bnttn I o unfir I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, ancLother places.-.
Bank of Qeui South (JJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,475,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon.CHARLES K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiikr, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the wo> id.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,310,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,510,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
O. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Shipping.
KT. 3D. TLm.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Pour Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 30th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITED. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(In vested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
I'hrouahout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
'MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
DAMASCUS
N. Allan .. I Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, June 21
H. A. Schleman .. I Noon. July 19
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets; Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
xcz
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 17th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
SUEVIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
xc
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridgo St., SYDNEY.
<r
v\f
if/
it/
it>
v*/
$
it/
if/
\t/
i»
it/
it/
if/
it/
i>/-
i»
it/
it/
if/
it/
it/
f?
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
GOVERNfIEM SAVINGS BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE COMMISSIONERS are prepared to pay interest
1 on deposits up to £5OO, and to make advances bn
mortgage of approved securities at the lowest current
THE SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT is empowered
to lend upon freeholds, or conditional purchases, mini-
mum advance £5O, maximum £25,000. Special terms
for repayment may be arranged.
THE ADVANCE DEPARTMENT is empowered to lend
upon freeholds, conditional purchases, homestead selec-
tions, settlement leases, settlement purchases or con-
ditional purchase leases, minimum advance £5O, maxi-
mum £2OOO. Repayment by instalments (including
principal and interest) extending over period not exceed-
ing 31 years.
Forms of application and full infoi mation upon enquiry
at the Bank or office of local Crown Bands Agent.
A. MACINTOSH,
P. E. WILLIAMS, Vi
W. H. O’M. WOODJ
•Commissioners.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: ,L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coilins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JASIES BORROW.VIAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £, 1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bisliopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES s
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND — Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Freviantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Chrisi church, Wellington
and Napieii.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. The Bulletin Ollice, Sydney
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROVAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
The most attractive and
interesting route to Europe
is via Canada.
*Twin Screw.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY - MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
FIRST AND SECOND CLASS,
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars.^
UNION STEAM ship company of n.z. ltd.
M;i.n:u;iny A<rei|t>s, Georire-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
Easy terms.
WE
$
&
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £IC 0,000
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
IVT.S. W.
(IJoiitiepieteß^l
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH S < 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Rabbit skins.
We are CASH BUYERS for Export.
Top Prices Guaranteed. No Commission.
JAMES FAY, McDonald & CO.
(Established 1889.)
44 Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
Sblpplng.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian!
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Raven sthorpe Goldfields. •
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
May 29.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Yonprala, May 18.
'S.S. Wollowra, May 25.
Best and Cheapest Ho ate to (iold/ields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. s. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling 1 at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing theirluggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOPI NS,
Queen's Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, £-houf
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS. CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
NO TIRED
BRAINS
If you. eat
Grape-Nuts
To prove it, try
for lO days.
"There’s a Reason."
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. lost
free from Bulletin office, ss.


New Cure
For Rupture.
New Scientific Appliance, Always a Perfect Pit-
Adjustable to Any Size Person—Easy, Comfort-
able, Never Slips, No Obnoxious Springs or
Pads—Costs Less Than Many Common
Trusses—Made Por Men, Women,
and Children.
I Send It on Approval—You Wear It—lf You Are
Not Satisfied, I Refund Your Money—Brings
Immediate Relief to F ufferers.
I have invented a rupture appliance that I can safely
say, by 30 years’ experience in the rupture business, is the
only one that will absolutely hold the rupture and never
slip, and yet is light, cool, comfortable, conforms to every
movement of the body, without chafing or hurting, and
costs less than many ordinary trusses. There are no
springs or hard, lumpy pads, and yet it holds the rupture
safely and firmly without pain or inconvenience. I have
put the price so low that any person, rich or poor, can
buy, and I absolutely guarantee it.
C. E. BROOKS, The Inventor.
I make it to your order—send it to you—
you wear it, and if it doesn’t satisfy you
send it back to me and I will refund your
money.—C. E. BROOKS.
That is the fairest proposition ever made by a rupture
specialist. The banks or any responsible citizen in
Marshall will tell you that is the way I do business—
always absolutely fair and square.
For several years my appliance has been used in all
parts of America, with a wonderful record of success. It
has come to be recognised as the only sure, unfailing re-
lief from all the tortures of rupture, and the most reliable
method of cure. Thousands of reputable, honest, thank-
ful men and women testify to the great good the Brooks’
Rupture Appliance has done them. Since its introduction
into England, my appliance has brought perfect relief
and comfort to many who had suffered for years from
rupture.
Mr. R. Hartwell, 95 Holly Hedge Lane, Walsall,
Staffordshire, writes as follows :
Walsall, Aug. 9, 1906.
Mr. Brooks. Sir, —I received the appliance all right
on July 27th, and must say it answers the purpose
intended. It is very comfortable. I see men around me
in the same form as I was, and I think very likely when
it is more widely known that some of them will adopt
your plan. I have now. worn it two weeks and can walk
about much better, which is a good advertisement.
Yours truly, R. HARTWELL.
Mr. T. W. Straw, 23 Park Road, Blackpool, has
found relief. He says :
Blackpool, May 12, 1906.
Dear Sir, —I received the appliance on the Ist ihst.,
and am very pleased with it. It adapts itself to the body
in a marvellous manner and serves its purpose perfectly.
I have never felt so safe or so comfortable before since I
was ruptured. I cycle and take a lot of exercise, but the
pad always stays in place, whatever position I get in.
lain, Yours truly, W. T. STRAW.
If you have tried most everything else, come to me.
Where others fail, I have my greatest success. Write me
to-day, and I will send you my book on Rupture and its
cure, showing my appliance and giving you prices and
names of people who have tried it and been cured. It
is instant relief when all others fail. Remember I use
no salves;, no harness, no lies. Just a straight business
deal at a reasonable price.
Remember, a letter to America requires 2Jd. postage,
write your name very plain, and be sure to give your full
address, so there can be no mistake in delivery. Address,
C. E. BROOKS,
3367 Brooks Bldg., Marshall, Mich., U.S.A.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only irue and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that,has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand.
London. England
GOUT
V
%
toll*
* Y es
*k
%
xcxzc
WHY DRUGS FAIL
ADD ELECTRICITY CURES!
a?
i&L
DRUGS cure acute diseases because the latter are of poisonous origin,
and the poison in drugs counteracts or neutralizes the poison
in the body. They fail to cure ehronie diseases
OP make Strength, as you who have tried them know. Chronic
ailments are caused by depletion of the nerve tissues, lack of recreation,
of fresh air and of exercise, the non-assimilation of food, and often by
excesses in eating, drinking and numerous other excesses and violations
of the laws of Nature which result in weakness of the various organs.
It goes without saying that the taking of poison into the body will not, cannot
cure these conditions, for poisons do not give nourishment.
What must be the means of cure? It certainly must be something which
replaces and reinstates the lost or wasted vitality. It must be a natural element of
the body, not an unnatural one. No one will claim that poisons are natural elements
of the human body, for it revolts every time they are taken. An experience of
more than twenty years with drugs and Electricity has convinced us that
Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will replace and renew lost energy
and vitality. Thousands of grateful letters from cured people tell us that drugs
failed to cure, and that Electricity, as given by the new Improved
dr. McLaughlin s electric belt
is the only successful means of cure. These people will tell you they have been cured by OUP Belt of Weak-
ne s, Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Stpmaeh Troubles, and Liver and Kidney
Ailments after spending large sums of money fruitlessly in drugs and other treatments. Electricity cured them by
exercising the relaxed nerves, muscles and organs and putting back into them the element which was lost, and which
is the foundation of strength. . . . Ours are the original and standard Electric Belts of Australasia, and
price is as low as £1 in many cases.
our
FREE BOOK.
If you. want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and, which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
lilte BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
THE McLAUGHL/N CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
wscp::r coex..-* Office Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
4
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
i
nn%
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk* and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
6trong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. « Brdge # Loftus Sts-, Sydney
h y
cougln i
POWEtO
BALSAM or ANISEED
Tbit wonderful Remedy has stood the test for 80 years as the one Safe and Reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
and all THROAT AND LUNG TROUBLES.
It affords Immediate relief and a speedy cure. Read the following proof of Its efficacy—
hosi l^^fi Vr> i Lush writes from Stixwold Vioarage, Horncastle: — “For the past twelre years I hare
® ~e 11 ? f , using myself, giving away, and recommending your Balsam. I should not be '
»£? ratin £ I said I had never known it to fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it in preference to
ai yttung else, and again and again it has cured me.”
B , alsa ? of Aniseed has proved itself to be the most effectual remedy for Coughs, Colds,
. ls > ®to., etc. A cold nipped in the bud has often saved a life, and there is no surer or safer
i?J“ e sorious consequences of a neglected cold than a few doses of this excellent prepara-
sum. it should be one of the first aids kept in the house.”— The Gentleman’s Journal.
Of all Chemists and Stores. Observe the Trade Mark on the outer wrapper.
Proprietors:— THOS. POWELL, Ltd., BLACKFRIARS, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland —
ELLIOT BROS., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, & Eagle Street, Brisbane.
%
Pi
0
&
£
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—-IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.


JS3
l
1^
k
VICTORIA
C o II i n s & S wa nsfon St? Mel bourn e;
WEST. AUSTRALIA
3955-397 Hay S?. Perth i
QUEENSLAND I
QueenS Edward St? Brisbane
NEW ZEALAND
H6SI4S Queen St. Auckland.
IS3 LambtonQuay.Wellington
236523 S H igh St Christchurch.!
Princes S- DowlingSt? Dunedjn.
xcz
ilni
All Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
ziyiv
?Oo
©©©©©©©©©©©©©
If it's from
Stewart Dawsons
its good..
Write the
store nearest
you.
Ufie STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of " glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then you will be fully satisfied.
SB*
ft ff ft - ft ■ j,
iiiiiiiiiilll
ll■ ■ mi _ _ -
v —e—r—e—s »® V
Oct. Gold, Amethyst Heart Drop,
Bird and Scroll Brooch, 14s 6d.
Extra Strong Beaded Close Curb
Brooch, 14s 6d.
“ Dearest ” Brooch, Oct. Gold,
15s 6d.
Oval Amethyst and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 18s 6d.
Pearl Set Spray' and New Moon
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
15ct. Gold Leaf Centre Brooch,
£1 Is.
9ct. Gold Twin Bar Rose and
Ruby Set Brooch, £1 2s 6d.
Pearl Set Double Heart Brooch,
9ct. Gold, £1 10s.
. 15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Sham-
rock Brooch, £1 10s.
15ct. Gold Pearl and Ruby-
Brooch, £1 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold and Opal Set Scroll
Brooch, 37s 6d.
Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Bird
Brooch, £1 17s 6d.
15ct. Gold Twin Bar and Pearl
Set Brooch, £2.
Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£2.
Pearl and Sapphire Set 15ct.
Gold Brooch, £2 ss.
Ruby and Diamond Butterfly
Brooch, Silver Settings on Gold,
£3 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, 15s 6d.
Diamond and Ruby Set Fine Gold
Daisy Brooch, £6 6s.
Fine Gold Brooch Set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires, Pearl
Centre, £l3 10s.
9ct. Gold Bar Knot and Heart Brooch,
6s 6d.
15ct. Gold Pearl Set or Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant,
£3 10s.
9ct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Set
Safety Pin, 16s 6d.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Diamond, Ruby
and Sapphire, 3‘2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, Pearl Set Daisy Brooch, 22s 6d
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set or Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant,
£5 15s. .
9ct. Gold, Pearl Set Lyre Brooch, 21s.
Fine Pearl and Turquoise and 9ct.
Gold New Art Brooch, £llss. .
15ct. Gold and Pearl Orescent Brooch,
355.
15et. Gold and Fine Opal Trefoil or
Shamrock Brooch, £3 ss.
Greenstone and 9et. Gold Brooch,
17s 6d.
Carved Greenstone and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 14s 6d.
Diamond and Ruby Set 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 22s 6d.
Amethyst and Pearl Set 9et. Gold
Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst Centre 9ct. Gold Bell,
Bar and Chain Brooch, 255.
9ct. Gold Fancy Pearl Set Leaf
and Bar Brooch, 255.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Scroll and
Twin Bar Brooch, very strong,
27s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby and Sapphire Set
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, 255.
Massive 9ct. Gold Twin Bamboo
Bar, Bell, Leaf and Chain Brooch,
27s 6d.
Strong 9ct. Gold Polished Bar
Brooch, Opal Heart Set, 30s.
Isct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise
Brooch, 30s.
9ct. Gold, New Moon, Bird and
Bower Brooch, Set Pearls all over,
£2 15s.
15et. Gold, 4 Opals in Diamond
Setting, Twin Bar Brooch,
£2 12s 6d.
Fine Pearl Set Scroll Twin Bar
15ct. Gold Brooch, £2 12s Od.
Pearl Set New Moon and Robin
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Fine Opal and Diamond Set 15ct.
Gold Scroll Brooch, £l6 10s.
Fine Opal Heart and Lover’s Knot
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
‘Lily of the Valley” 15et. Gold,
Pearl and Fine Opal Set Brooch,
£5 10s.
O_oL_O.
a fins'
Eg
SHI
I -
asatt'


xczxcz
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the. Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
xcz
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTINGS, &c.
HXr"SEND for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
anti 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
By Royal Warrant to
xzc
His Majesty the King.
BOVRIL
is of great value as a “Pick-me-up.”
Bovril is guaranteed to be free from any added preservative
in conformity with, the Commonwealth regulations.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
xczxcz
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the 'Celebrated . ,
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel' bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price
Postajre to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
iLxtra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JEI 7s 6d;
Postage to,any address in Australia, 2/(1 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, Jewellery, Etc, 2 io Queen St., Brisbane
C-B
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C-B
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
xcz
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands of
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
-^5
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE
STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
Beautiful Home Decorations
xcz
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘ 8 APOIiIIV ” 11.001!STAINS Btain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
ALCMISIIIM gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made ot metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brush it on.
PAIIST (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease or application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory. * ’
■For sale by all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE”; GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, is, post. Howto Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train tiie
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lspostecl. My Neighbor Raymond, ls;post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
nr Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is- posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
xc
HOME CYC LOPE DIB
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR «PLAIN HOME TALK. 1 *
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1243 Pages.
IT IS FREE 1 ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
JNature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that oceur to the minds of young and old, but about
wmeh they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
i ACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged.
"Covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for' Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught
Is -2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D*r- Established 20 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
+ :
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER. OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT. *
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, is. Sai-piio, genuine
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid!
wifes Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage' 8d
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. Ingersoll s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G W
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted'
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugarl
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leathir
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d Dyna
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages cloth
bound 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
zxcz
i^XMCEp
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ Pincher Mick” writes from Pentridge
(Vic.) : —
Dear Mr. Bullyteen, —That cove wot wrote the blanky
verse about the Melbourne City Court is a mate
o mine. Leastways I never seen ’im in me life, but
a cove wot can express my erpinions like wot ’e did is my
pal all the time, and wots more, w’en ’e wants ter bite a
junk outer a piece o’ beer belongin’ ter me, ’e on’y ’as to
say so. That there line about retirin’ ole Panton is a
boshter, and ’its the nail fair on the crumpet, as the poet
says. It just is about time that ole bloke wos sent some-
weres w’ere ’e can be less interferin’. The world ’ud be
a appy place if it wasn’t fer the likes of ’im and ’is pals.
Is idea seems ter be to back up them rotten Johns wot-
ever they say ; and, Lor’ lumnie, wot won’t a John say
w en ’e’s got a pore innercent cove lined up in the Court.
" y, about 3 or 4 months ago, I wos just pokin’ round
quiet and peaceful like, ’opin’ to meet someone wot ’ad
a tanner to do in, and thinkin’ ’ow thirsty I wos,
wen before you could say “ Yow ” a big fat
lazy John grabs me by the neck most vicious, and
if a pair o’ boots, w’ich s’elp me I never seen afore,
didn’t drop outer me clobber. O’ course ’e accuses me o’
pinchin’ them, and that old Panton and ’is crowd gives
"-three months’ ’ard. The cove defendin’ me proved an
alibi wot would ’a’ satisfied nearly anybody, but that there
Push cm the Bench would believe a noo-joined John afore
they’d believe a Archbishop. That’s w’y I’m pals with
your co-respondent (as the noospapers say), and you can
tell im from me that I don’t believe that Shakespeer
isself could ’a’ done up ole Panton and ’is push better.
“ Wang ” : I saw a noble fight, the other
morning, under Duke of Guttersnipe’s rules. A
fishmonger’s barrow stood in the middle of Little
Lonsdale-street, Melbourne, while the owner was
in an adjacent pub. Presently two “lydies”
arrived on the scene, and started to make unkind
remarks about each other. Soon one of them
skipped lightly to the barrow, and, selecting
three feet of barracoota, slapped the other lydy
on the face with it. The other uttered a prayer
or something (rather fancy it was something), and
paid a hasty visit to the barrow and grasped a
weapon. For a few minuted the atmosphere was
filled with hair, fish-scales and strange words.
We formed a ring and settled down for a
period of unquiet enjoyment. Then a fishmongi r
appeared on one side and a policeman on the
other, and I expected a dazzling melee of four,
but the factory whistle blew, and I had to hurry
off to toil.
It is Norway that has put the peg in now
The foreigner has been vigorously attacking its
iron ores and exporting them, just as the Japs
propose to export ore from the Commonwealth ;
wherefore a law has been passed, prohibiting any
foreign person from “owning or using forests,
mines, or waterfalls.” ' ' I


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
Uhe LEADING
HOUSE
.Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FRJEE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or. more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
CAN’T
B
BEAT
xcz
OUR
Special
Snap.
6/0
4/0
2/0
ASK FOR
MU ST AD’S
“KEY BRAND.
M34—Mustad’B
Nos. 1-2-3
sd.
M4o—Mustad’B
Nos. 10 to 1
3d.
M44—Mustad’s
Nos. 10 to 1
sd.
Best Japanned Kirby Bent Hookßinged, XX Strong—
-1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. lOd. lid. 1/1 1/3 1/6 per box of 60.
Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted—
1£ 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
4d. 4d. sd. sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- per box of 50
Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, XX Strong—
U 1/0 2/0 3/0 4/0 5/0 6/0 7/0 8/0 9/0 10/0
sd. 6d. 6d. 7d. Bd. Bd. 9d. lOd. 1/- 1/2 1/3 per box of 50
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Suflerers from any form of Bronchitis
Breathing Hoarseness Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluaDie, a
effects a Comp"L c u ;e It is most comforting in ailayfng the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or As hma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where "Coughs have been properly treated with this medi-ine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a numher
" of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i+
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly.
iy Ap —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act.
I”U I IvCi the youngest child and the most aged person.
It Is equally beneficial for
ASK, FOR,
BOSISTO'S
66
PARROT
BRAND
a
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
i SUBSTITUTE
xczxc
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 f°r 101-
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., ..ELBOURN .
[Mention Tiik Bulletin.] i ->
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd.
z
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds’ worth of
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
cxz
5
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silvei
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nin<
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight lin<
in as many ways as possible; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to r.
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer wi
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending yonr solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firni. Thedistance
vou may'live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you six dozen of the most artistic penny picture post cards you have
ever seen. Everybody wants picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own
use, you have pienty of friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you
wish to dispose of ; thus you get double the value for the money you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Watch. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs., or
Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, Pitt St., Sydney, IM.S.W.
xcz
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
xcz
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIAi
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
iMxgTFi
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals
cxz
xcz
Works s Birmingham) England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
BITTERS
IT WILL drive the humor from
your system, and make your skin
clean and smooth. Those Pimples and
Blotches which mar your heauty are
caused by IMPURE BLOOD*
They can be removed in a short
time, if you are wise and use the
great blood purifier, Sulphur Bitters,
TRY A BOTTLE TO-DAY.
Why suffer with Boils ? Why rave
with that terrible Headache ? Why
lay and toss on that bed of pain
with RHEUMATISM? Use Sul-
phur Bitters. They will cure you
where all others fail. The dose is
srna.ll —only a teaspoonful. TRY IT
and you will be satisfied. The young,
the aged and tottering are soon made
well by its use. „ Bemember what
you read here, it may save your life,
it has SAVED HUNDREDS.
If you are suffering from Kidney
Disease, and wish to live to old age.
use Sulphur Bitters. They never fail
to cure. Get it of your Druggist.
DON'T WAIT. GET IT AT ONCE.
Sulphur Bitters will cure Liver
Complaint. Don’t be discouraged;
IT WILL CURE YOU.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly barmleM
and easv to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient
address : THE EUCRASY CO..
62 Hunter tSt.» Sydney.
Is. ; Packet’of Ten, XOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.


This is a
heldon
1
Town
YOU ' S EVERY ° THER TOWM ’
D ? SHELDOHs
* new
Discovery
xcz
xcz
OUGHS
OLDS AND
OHSUMPnOH
WHEREVER MEDICINES ARE SOLD.
Nature’s Own Lung Tonic Makes Sore Lungs Well.
ACCEPT NO SUBSTITUTE
Price 1/6 and 3/-
GUARANTEED.
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
fob
&
CURABLE DISORDERS.
There are some diseases which are incurable, but these are fortunately rare. There are, on the
other hand, two groups of disorders which afflict a large number of peopie, many of whom seem to
consider that there is no hope of release, for they go on suffering year after year when their cases
would readily yield to treatment if the root of the disorder were attacked. The two groups referred to
are uric and biliary disorders, and they comprise the following common complaints
ITeio
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Gravel and Stone
Bladder Troubles
Biliaby
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Sick Headache
Anaemia
General Debility
Blood Disorders
Now all these disorders originate from the same cause—namely, the inability of the kidneys and
liver to properly perform their function of eliminating from the system the urinary and biliary
poisons which produce the disease.
The Kidneys of the average person filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine
every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains
in weight of uric acid, and other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly
an ounce. If the kidneys are working freely and healthily, all this solid matter leaves the body dis-
solved in the urine, but if, through weakness or disease, the kidneys are unable to do their duty
properly, a quantity of these urinary substances remains in the blood and flows through the veins
contaminating the whole system. Then we suffer from some form of uric poisoning such as
Xlheumatism, Gout, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Persistent Headache, Neuralgia,
Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles. A simple test to make as to whether the kidneys are
healthy is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, shows a sediment like brick-dust, is of an unnatural
color, or has particles floating about in it, the kidneys are weak or diseased, and steps must imme-
diately be taken to restore their vigor, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some of the many manifesta-
tions of uric poisoning will result.
The Liver is an automatic chemical laboratory. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made by the liver every day. The liver
takes sugar from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again
supply it to the blood as the latter may require enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, whioh is
insoluble, into urea, which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles
which have lived their life and are useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer
from some form of biliary poisoning such as Indigestion, Biliousness, Anaemia, Jaundice.
Sick Headache, General Debility, and Blood Disorders.
, So intimate is the relation between the work done by the kidneys and that done by the liver, that
where there is any failure on the part of the kidneys, the liver becomes affected in sympathy and vice
versa. It was the realisation of the importance of this close union of the labor of those vital organa
wnich resulted m the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
Certain medical men, knowing what a boon it would be to humanity if some medicine could be found
w icn would act specifically on both the kidneys and liver, devoted themselves to an exhaustive search
or sucn a medium, and their devotion was eventually rewarded by their success in compounding a
medicine which possesses the required quality in the fullest degree. Warner’s Safe Cure exhibits a
arvellous healing action in all cases of functional or chronic disease of the kidneys and liver, and
restoring them, as it is able to do, to health and activity, it, of necessity, cures all complaints due to
Jit v®ntion in the system of urinary and biliary poisons. A vigorous action of the kidneys and liver
w. eliminates the poisons, and troubles due to the presence of the poisons cease, Cures affected
by Warner s Safe Cure are permanent simply because they are natural. v " - * [4j
Verney’s Objective
or The Bulletin.]
FOB. my part,” Verney was saying,
“if I didn’t have a definite purpose in
life—something to look forward to and
live for, I’d ”
He broke off, drained his glass, and replaced it
quietly on the little cafe table. The traffic-roar
of the city blurred a little space of silence. Cor-
dray, seated opposite, gazed thoughtfully across
with half-shut eyes, inwardly commenting that
his friend had the forehead and eyes of a poet, the
lips and jaw of a mathematician, and the strong,
nervous hands of a surgeon. Cordray was lazily
surprised that he had not remarked these charac-
teristics before. He exhaled three voluminous
mouthfuls of tobacco-smoke and spoke :
“Well, Verney, if you hadn’t a—what do you
call it ?—you’d ”
“Oh ! ” Verney said. “ I’d go—you know
“Mad!” said Cordray. Then he added,
hastilj'', “I beg your pardon, Verney. I was too
brutally direct. I know that isn’t a pleasant—er
—subject.”
“Well, no, Cordray, scarcely, pleasant. A man
whose father died in an asylum naturally doesn’t
revel in the theme of insanity. Still, it wasn’t
your fault, Cordray. I brought the subject up,
and.... see, Cordray— l’m afraid of it.”
Oordray’s well-featured, trim-bearded face ex-
pressed mild astonishment. He waved aside a
lazy smoke-cloud, and peered interestedly across.
“ What! that you might ?.... Pooh ! My dear
fellow, you’re as sound as—l am.”
Verney shook his head, gloomily. “That’s what
I meant when I spoke of a supposititious con-
tingency of having no object in life. I simply
could not exist—and be sane—unless I had some-
thing definite to live for.”
Cordray smoked silently for half-a-minute.
Then he laughed.
“But assuming the very improbable, Verney.
Assuming a time when you hadn’t an object, what
then ? Suicide ? ”
Verney shuddered, and helped himself to
whisky. “ Ugh ! Never! ” he said, intensely.
"I’droafe something to live for, Cordray. I’d
think, plan, dream, scheme, chicane until I found
something.”
“But,” persisted Cordray, “suppose all your
planning , failed—that you were driven back on
yourself. What then ? ”
“I’d go mad.” Verney shivered slightly. “So
depend upon it, I wouldn’t fail.”
“Well!” Cordray laughed pleasantly. “Of
course this is mere academic talk. You have
plenty to live for, old man.”
“ Yes,” said Verney, and his eyes glowed. “ I
have my wife and my home to make snug ” ——
Cordray suddenly stooped to empty the ashes
of his pipe into the spittoon. When he sat up
again he filled his glass, and sipped slowly with-
out speaking.
“Talking of my wife” —Verney looked at his
watch, and got briskly to his feet— “ I must be
jogging along. I have to take her to the florist’s,
to buy flowers. She’s taken a fancy to chrysan-
themums lately—white chrysanthemums—and she
wants to get some good ones. By the way,
pordray, that’s your favorite flower, isn’t it?
That’s a remarkably fine specimen you’ve got in
your coat. Well, s’long.”
Verney strode a few paces, turned, and went
back.
“But—say, Cordray,” he asked, jocularly,
“supposing you lost the grip of things, what
would you do ? ”
Responded Cordray, quietly, “I’ve a trifle of
imagination, too, and I’d go out!”
Verney laughed good-humoredly, and walked
briskly off. “ Queer old character—Cordray,” he
mused, and hailed a cab.
Cordray thoughtfully emptied his glass.
• * * *
It was a week later that ugly Truth leapt out of
the Unsuspected, and struck Verney vitally. An
impulsive man, in similar case, might have
written some crimson-lettered history of a melo-
dramatic kind ; but Verney’s mathematical mouth
negatived haste, and he was able to handle him-
self through the first shock, and consider the
position critically.
He decided that nothing was to be gained by
making a public scandal. Nothing could undo,
or pardon, his wife’s treachery, or Cordray’s base-
ness, and the idea of revenge—having been coldly
analysed—did not appeal to him just then. He
resolved to conceal his knowledge, and “leave
them to it.” He wrote to her, briefly. He was
unexpectedly called away on business, he said ;
date of. his return was uncertain; she need not
allow his departure to interfere with her move-
ments in any way—she would, of course, enjoy
herself as usual during his absence. Verney
chuckled grimly as he wrote “as usual.” He
thought the words a rather good touch, and felt
inclined to underline them, but, after considera-
tion, refrained.
Then Verney went forth, scarcely realising yet
how hard he was hit, and his old environment
knew him no more for a time.
He became a nocturnal lounger of parks, and an
observer of the queer characters he met there;
a prowler of dark streets, and witness of many
unrecorded midnight happenings; a frequenter
of wharves and water-side public-houses, where he
saw much, and heard more, that considerably
enlarged his knowledge of life.
The experience was welcome ; it was something
to live for, he told himself. But interest flagged
with familiarity, and one morning he awoke after
a night of dissipation with some chance com-
panions, to a splitting headache, and the realisa-
tion that the last vestige of interest in the world
had vanished.during his sleep.
He turned from his late associates with dis-
gust, sought solitude, and asked himself scorn-
fully what business he had to be alive. He had
nothing to live for! A glimpse of a big coal-
lieaver, black from his toil from boots to hat, the
whites of his eyes rolling grotesquely like a
negro’s, slouching wearily home through the dusk,
thrilled him with sudden envy. The man was
poor, ignorant, toil-driven—but he had something
to live for! A wife—children maybe; at all
events, something, if it were only beer.
The episode of the coal-heaver was merely the
first of many such. Verney stood aside and
watched the world move past; watched ships sail
out fpr far countries, bearing breathing, hopeful,
interested humanity, and other ships come in,
similarly freighted ; and the sight angered him.
Ihe . trains, the trams, the cabs, the’buses, the
jostypg street crowds, the roar and shriek of the
■oity tortured him. The turmoil evidenced Life —
seething and interested ; from which he alone was
outcast. He alone seemed to have nothing to live
for.
“It won’t do.” Verney dropped into a park
seat, and marshalled his wits. “It will never dp.
I’ve just got to find something to live for, or I’ll
go mad, safe enough.”
For a week Verney was the most interested
man in Sydney—interested by the problem of in-
venting something to be interested in. At the
end of the week he had formulated a scheme, and
became really interested.
His old friends, when he re-appeared among
them, honestly sympathised with Verney. A
diabolical crime, they said; sad, too, to think
that he should have been absent when it hap-
pened. An inexplicable crime; the detectives
could make nothing of it. Still, “ murder will
out, you know,” and so on, and so on. All of
which Verney heard with the sober air of a man
whose sorrow was too deep for utterance ; and
mournfully deprecated further comment with a
pleading gesture of his crape-banded arm. His
public demeanor of grief lacked nothing of verisi-
militude.
When alone, however, the lugubrious exterior
dropped from him like a black cloak ; his figure
straightened, and a look of complacent content
routed the solemn lines from his face. He looked,
then, the perfect antithesis of a bereaved husband.
One day, shortly after the tragedy, Verney
paused upon the steps of his hotel to light a
cigar, and serenely eyed the traffic. “ Something
to live for now, by Jove!” he chuckled, and
stepped briskly out to hunt up Cordray.
Cordray was rather difficult to find—was, in
fact, endeavoring to avoid Verney—but Verney
found him at length, re-assumed, as he ap-
proached, the metaphorical black cloak, and
gloomily suggested drinks.
Oordray would have declined, but Verney’s
inter-locked arm was not easily escaped, and the
men were soon seated at a quiet cafe table. Cor-
dray was obviously not well. His usually well-
groomed frame looked comparatively seedy ; his
beard had grown scraggy from inattention, and
his eyes lacked fire. He had the air of a man
who was fretting about something. Verney,
with great apparent solicitude, remarked on this.
“ What on earth is the matter, Cordray ? Come,
think better of it, and teil me. You look worse
every time I see you. Haven’t lost a dear rela-
tive, or a—er —sweetheart, or anything of that
sort? Not worrying about anything, eh, old
man?”
“ Oh, rubbish, Verney ! ” said Cordray, shortly,
“of course not. How often are you going to ask
me that ? What have Ito worry about ? ”
“True,” said Verney. “What, indeed ! Now
if you were in my place! If you had lost the
woman you loved ” And he shook his head
gloomily.
“Yes, yes, I know, Verney,” Cordray said,
impatiently.
“I beg your pardon, old man,” Verney said.
“I know I must bore you by harping on my
trouble in this fashion, but I really can’t help it.
You see, I’m so horribly cut up, and you’re the
only friend I have, Cordray.”
Cordray silently replenished his glass.
“My only friend, Cordray.”
Co’dray sipped his liquor.
“ You always we: e my best friend, Cordray.”
Cordray sipped his liquor.
“ A good friend, Cordray.”
Cordray sipped his liquor.
“A real, honorable, true friend, Cordray.”
Cordray sipped his liquor.
“A friend I could love —and trust, Cordray.”
Cordray finished his liquor.
“ 1 could trust you with my life, Cordray.”
Cordray’s glass clattered slightly on the table
as he placed it down.
“ I could even have trusted you with my wife,
Cordray.”
“ Verney—will you stop ! ” Cordray’s face was
unusually pale, and little beads of perspiration
glistened on his forehead.
“ She’s dead—murdered—Cordray. Cut down
in her youth and beauty—and innocence, Cor-
dray ! Ah ! Cordray, if you knew how good and
innocent she was!”
Verney was looking straight into Cordray’s
face, and his eyes had a glint of malicious enjoy-
ment. But Cordray did not meet his glance.
“You met her, didn’t you, Cordray? Yes, of
course, I introduced you, I remember. But you
only met her that once, Cordray ? ”
“ Only that once.” Cordray’s voice was husky.
“Only once!” Verney repeated. “Seems
queer now to think that you, my best friend,
should have met my wife only once. But had she
lived, you’d have met her oftener, Cordray. I’m
sure you’d have been good friends—very good
friends—had she lived.”
Verney sipped his liquor with a solemn air, and
looked at the ceiling with half-closed eyes. Cor-
dray hurriedly lit his pipe, and enveloped himself
in smoke with short, spasmodic puffs.
“ By the way, Cordray,” Verney said, suddenly,
“I notice you never wear a white chrysanthemum
in your coat, now. Why? You were seldom
without one, once.”
“Oh!” Cordray said, unsteadily, “I don’t
know. Mislaid the taste. I suppose.”
“ She developed quite an extraordinary love for
white chrysanthemums some time before her
death. My wife, you know, Cordray, used to get
fresh ones every day, and wear one in her bosom.
I told her she couldn’t have been more tender
with the flowers if a lover had sent them. It
was only a joke, you know, Cordray, but she
didn’t like it. She was so pure and honorable
that she couldn’t bear to hear that sort of thing
referred to even in jest.”
Cordray rose as if to end the conversation, but
Verney stopped him with a gesture.
“Don’t be impatient with me, Cordray. I
know I’m a bore, but I must talk about her. I
loved her so, you see. And she loved me so much,
Cordray. I know that when she was dying her
last thought was of me, Cordray. ”
Cordray fidgeted in his chair.
“Of me, Cordray. Not of anybody else in the
world, Cordray. Of her husband, Cordray.”
“ I’ll really have to leave you now, Verney.”
Cordray looked at his watch.
“Did you ever love a woman, Cordray? A
good woman, Cordray ; such a woman, say, as my
wife, Cordray ? Of course not, for there was
only one woman like her—and that was herself.
But if you had loved such a woman, Cordray, and
she were suddenly stricken down like—eh ?”
Cordray was silent.
“ Would you go mad, Cordray ? Do you think
you would want to live afterwards? Do you
think you’d have anything to live for, Cordray?”
Still Cordray was silent; he was nervously
stuffing tobacco into his pipe.
“Did you hear how she died, Cordray? She
was stabbed, Cordray—stabbed to the heart.
They found her, Cordray, with her once beautiful
face turned up to the mocking stars—all stark
and unlovely in death; her hands, that Iso loved
to kiss, were clenched as with pain, and all
crimsoned with her blood."
“ For Heaven’s sake, Yerney
There were flowers at her bosom, and they
Theyhadbeen
“ Yerney ! ”
“ White chrysanthemums, Cordray.”
“ Verneyl” J y
“ Your favorite flowers, Cordray! What.
Cordray! 111, old man? Take my arm, then ;
I’ll get you a cab.”
#
. * *
I hat night Cordray suddenly decided that he
had lost the grip of things, and that trifle of
imagination, which he had aforetime mentioned
to Yerney, suggested that he should “go out.”
So “ go out ” he did.
“ Hang him, what was he in such a hurry for ?”
said Yerney, irritably, when he heard the news.
“ I didn’t anticipate he’d do that—so soon. He
has disarranged my scheme. What am I to amuse
myself with now ? What am Ito live for?”
For just one week Yerney pondered that
question. Then he astonished the country by
confessing to the law that it was he who had killed
his wife. The rest is told, in his diary by the
I** John Allensby, gaol chaplain: * *
- Ule . prisoner was extremely incommunicative
tbe which he suffered. He
persistently repeated that he had committed it
iL^ Gr v^fli aV R- S 0 T thing 'i [° r ‘ Each
d “® ,J‘» d b f n £% said - And ““7
days now, Mr. Allensby? bo many, eh? Well,
1 can expect It at the end of them, and that's
something’ to look forward to, and live jor. ’ It
was very strange, and at times I doubted his
sanity. On the last morning he was quite cheer-
ful> and said, as he shook hands with me : ‘How
long now, Mr. Allensby? A minute or so? Well,
anyhow, it was something to live for.’ And, just
as b turned to lead the grim procession he
ufcfc , e l ied , a ff ueer little joyful cry, as if he had
suddenly found a happy thought,
“I turned sharply. He was smiling, and his
eyes were wide with a great light. ‘And,’he
said, triumphantly, 'something to die for.”’
P. T. Freeman.


“IN THE WARS.”
A Few Handy First-Aid Hints.
The unique healing powers of Zam-Buk Balm having
established it as the standard “ first-aid” for home use, the
following (necessarily brief) hints on the
proper treatment of common injuries will
prove useful to housewife and bread-
winner alike
Cuts. —Rinse with cold water and bind up
tightly with clean linen, on which Zam-Buk Balm has
been smeared. Apply second dressing a few hours
later.
Bruises. —Rub Zam-Buk well in,
rubbing only one way, towards the heart.
Swelling will be lessened, pain soothed, and
discoloration prevented.
Burns and Scalds. Apply
the Balm direct to wound or spread on strips
of lint. Apply with least possible delay, the exclusion
of air being of first importance.
Jagged Cuts, Scrapes, Etc.— Wash
carefully in tepid water with soft clean rag, and apply
Zam-Buk as for cuts.
Sprains. —ln serious cases foment to reduce
swelling. Then rub Zam-Buk gently in for several
minutes, afterwards bandaging firmly but not tightly.
A few days’ rest of the injured joint is all that
should be necessary in the average case.
A pot of Zam-Buk Balm should be
always on a handy shelf ready for use
at a moment’s notice.
Mr. J. Turnbull, of 29 Shemel Street, Waterloo,
tion, and am constantly knocking,my hands about. ?™mpt p? J u Jf Burns, Cuts and
gives instant relief. My children have also found Zam-Buk inialuaoie jo,
Chicken-pox sores.” ■
or from The Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. .
Should
he
very
icme.
m
wmm.
1
VM/A
it
m
m.
mmm
mm III
////////
m
“RUB IT IN”
9
a/zdm/M/JaimMmt
mid -/nM d/imM d
Manly By The Sea.
[For The Bulletin.]
A SPIRIT-FREE Bohemia
Is Manly bv the sea,
Where Punchinello laughs to scorn
Conventional decree ;
A Pagan village set apart
From morbid sites of man,
Where life drifts on in artless art
And never stops to plan.
The tawny men are lithe of limb
At Manly by the sea,
Their loins are cast in Grecian mould
As God meant men to be,
And Hebes gay, with taunting lips
And love-expectant face,
Roam o’er the beach with swinging hips—
The parents of the race.
We take no thought of pomp and power
At Manly by the sea;
None careth who or what you are,
Or asks your pedigree.
So that you love a rosy lip
And a surf-whitened shore,
And drink a toast with fellowship—
We ask for nothing more.
We never know the time o’ day
At Manly by the sea.
It is a new Arcadia,
And none there asks for fee ;
For no one thinks of anything
More stern than love and play ;
The night slips onward banqueting,
The day is dreamed away.
No sounds of battle-stresses come
To Manly by the sea,
We speak the speech of wand’ring waves,
And sweet it is to me.
Tho wooing sea, O Manly, spills
Its glory at your feet,
And somewhere ’yond the drowsy hills
The shut-in cities greet.
Your soul is steeped in indolence,
O Manly by the sea !
What time the soft north-easters blow
You idle fancy-free;
The white surf sings a lullaby
That soothes your sins with sleep,
And all the lords of earth may die,
But you would never weep.
N.s.w.
W. M. Whitney.
“Doogan’s Little Harse.”
[For The Bulletin.]
IT was race day. The silence of the little
bush settlement was broken. The crowd-
rough, bearded pioneers of the bush ; lank,
loose-made boys with trousers several inches too
short, and broad-leafed felt hats supported mainly
by large, contorted ears, and blucher boots laced
with string ; women who were carrying babies, and
women who were not; and dogs in great number
and variety—had been arriving since nine in the
morning. Some of the humans arrived in carts;
some transpired in drays; some chanced along on
horseback with saddles, and some occurred on
plough horses with winkers and a bag. Some came
pulling lean-looking horses along. The dogs came
on foot. The crowd always left the pub veran-
dah, and walked to the rails, when one of the
led horses came, and men said to each other;
“Wonder what horse is that?” Anyone who
was able to supply the information was treated
with special respect.
There were only three starters in the first race
—they were all holding back for the “Big Han-
dicap ”of five sovereigns. We went up with an
old screw, and brought young Jimmy Dunn to
ride for us. We were standing a bit away from the
crowd on the verandah, when big Doolan came
up. He didn’t know us, but he knew Jimmy.
He shook hands with that brief object, and said t
“Now, you’re a shmall little b’y, Jimmy. Do
you ever go above on aharse ?”
Jimmy reckoned he did—had been riding for
three years.
“Ah, then, you have? Well, av coorse it
have nothing to ;do wid me, Jimmy, for I’m one
av the cummittee, but Doogan have no one to ride
his little harse. I suppose, now, you can ride
purty well? What I mane: You wouldn’t lave
’em come up inside o’ ye, or lose the start, we’ll
say ? ”
“ What’re you givin’ us?” said Jimmy, with an
injured look. „
“ Well, see Jimmy, I’m the starter (and he
shut one eye hard), “ so’t have nothing to do wid
me; but I know Doogan have no one to ride his
little harse. Now, suppose you arrange with
Doogan. What’s the lightest you ride, if it’s a fair
question ? You’re a shmall little b’y, Jimmy, and
can ride very light, I’ll engage.”
“Oh ! ’bout seven stun two.
“You can? It’s a nice weight. But I can’t
interfere in any way, for you see, Jimmy, I’m one
of the handicappers. See, there’s Janny Ragan,
the judge, standin’ over ferninst us. He’s a nice
obligin’ man. He’ll go wid you to Doogan. Tell
him I sint you.”
We decided to put our few pence on Duggan’s
horse. . , , ,
The crowd waited anxiously on the verandah
for the weights. Doolan came out with a piece
of paper and a pencil, jumped on an empty beer
cask, and read: “Luther, twelve-stun-thirteen;
Dare Divil, twelve-stun-five.” And so he went
on through the list till he came to “ O’Connell,
seven-stun-two.” And we at once realised that
this must be “ Doogan’s little harse.”
The excitement increased. The crowd walked
on to the course just at the back of the pub. The
solitary bookmaker was roaring out the odds.
Boys with sleeves above their elbows, handker-
chiefs tied on their heads, and trousers stuffed
inside their socks, were prancing down the course
to take their “ preliminary.” The first two came
up in great style, flinging dirt behind them, and
making much noise until they got nearly level
with the orowd. Then they bolted off, but
stopped suddenly when they came to the fence.
The riders went over the fence. They weren’t
used to people, these horses of the bush, and the
dense crowd of fully 200 persons had a great
terror for them.
“Two to one Dare Devil 1 Even money
Luther! Five to one bar two 1 Eight to one
O’Connell! ”
Duggan was struggling to get away from his
father and brother-in-law. .
“ Let me go, I tell you. Let me get it on while
he’s eight to one.” , (T
“ Don’t be a fool,” the old man was saying. I
know they’ll do what they can, as they’re part-
ners with ye, but he might fall. Don’t put so
much on. You’ll ruin yourself, man.
But Duggan jerked himself away. He was
determined to plunge. He was very pale and all
of a tremble, as he handed over every fraction ot
17s. 6d. and took the bookmaker’s ticket. #
They drew for places at the start. Duggans
horse had inside running. Doolan drew for Dug-
gan . He warned the boys about making false
starts. Then he shut both eyes hard at Jimmy.
Jimmy dug both spurs hard into O Connell
and shot away. Doolan dropped the nag, and
shouted “Aff.” Then he wheeled his old pie-
bald, and came galloping across the course.
People clambered into carts and on to the
fence. Some of the people on the fence, for-
getting in their excitement where they were,
started to clap their hands, and fell backwards,
each dragging three or four others with him.
Several others were engaged pelting dogs off the
coura*.
O’Connell led about half the journey, and was
then left behind. Dare Devil and Luther passed
the post together, with O’Connell 10 lengths
away. Most of the others ran off the course
when the crowd began to yell. Doolan had tried
to watch the race as he galloped across, but lie
collided with a stump, and was nearly knocked
off. Then he only watched where he was going,
but kept on shouting, “Doogan’s little harse !
Doogan’s little harse ! ” But “Dead ’eat! Dare
Devil! Luther!” was being yelled from scores
of throats. Doolan ran over a man and two dogs,
and pulled up at the winning-post, and,, looking
very fierce, shouted again, “Doogans little
“Duggan’s horse be blowed. He was no-
where,” someone said.
“Janny! Janny Ragan,” Doolan called out
“Doogan’s harse have won. You saw the foul
ridin’ at the turn.” . IIT .
“ Certainly ! Certainly ! ” said Ragan. Doo-
gan’s horse was jostled.” ~ , <•
“What’re vou gettin at?” said the owner ot
Luther. “Why, they was three lengths ahead
when they took his runnin’. We’ll show you
the rules. Bring the rules,” he shouted to no
one in particular. ._ _ ,
“Look here, me bould hero, ’ said Doolan to
the man, with a look of importance, “allow me
to inforum you that we have min upon this cum-
mittee that are capable of settlin’ all disputes
widout a rule or a regilation.” .
By this time the boys had got together, their
horses—spur-marked from shoulder to stifle
prancing sideways, throwing their heads down
and covering everybody with froth. Doolan
glared at the boys, and spoke severely : “It is
my painful jooty to inforum ye that the riders
of Dare Divil and Luther are disqualified for
ridin’ unsatisfactory to the cummittee for the
rest av the meetin’. An’ ye may thank a lament
cummittee that ye’re not disqualified for life.
Doogan’s little harse have won.”
Several men made a rush at Doolan they all
seemed to want him at once. He darted across
towards an old bullock-dray, and tried to pick up a
fence-rail as he went, but hadn t time, lie put
his back to the dray, and glared round him for
something. Then he gripped a dog by the hind
legs and smote his enemies to the earth with it
as fast as they came up. In a few minutes the
fight became nice and general. The policeman
lost his head and fired a shot over the heads of the
combatants. Some who were near him fell with
fright. , ...
A bullock-bell rang, and a man called out:
“ Saddle hup fer the Cocky’s ’Andicap.”
And we went to saddle up.
Paul Cupid.
The Girl of the Day-Before-
Yesterday.
[FOR THE ULLETIN]
SOME bard’s been shedding a scalding tear
O’er the dead, cold ashes of “yester-year
A sort of figure of speech, you know,
For the frozen corpse of the long ago.
He tunes his wail in a doleful key,
And he tries to prejudice you and me
In a mean and pessimistic way
’Gainst all that’s bright in the world to-day.
He claims, in a general way, you see,
That nothing’s as good as it used to bo ;
That all his poetical soul holds dear
Went out with the days of “ yester-year ” ;
That naught will now with those days compare,
When men were gallant, and maidens fair—
But, what’s the matter, we humbly pray,
With the girl of the day-before-yesterday ?
Say, isn’t she fixed with a “ shell-like ear,
As small as those others of “ yester-year” ;
And isn’t she fitted with eyes as bright,
And isn’t her cuticle just as white ?
And hasn’t she gotten a “ chiselled nose,”
And cheeks as red as the “ damask rose ?
Or, if she hasn’t, why rouge ain’t dear—
It’s as cheap as it was in “ yester-year.
Her dainty waist is as small, you know,
As those of the maids of long ago;
And still some lover, on some pretence,
Discovers its true circumference—
Of course it’s the same old pantomime
The cave-man played in the dawn of time—
And the vows he vows are the same to-day,
And he keeps ’em much in the cave-man’s way.
The girl of the day-before-yesterday
Can wheedle a man in the old, old way ;
Her lips are sweet, and they cling to you
In the same old way that they used to do.
And the bard is blind, and his eyes are blear,
If he thinks that the maids of “ yester-year
Can give any (adjective) points away
To the girl of the day-before-yesterday.
But what of the wives of “ yester-year ” ?
We can well believe they were sweet and dear
And that, when their hubbies a-sleeping lay,
They searched their clothes in the old, old way
But odds in shillings we’d like to lay,
That the wife of the day-before-yesterdav
Can sweep your pockets as clean and clear
As her ancestresses of “ yester-year.
N.S.W.
IRANRAE


The photograph and letter we are privileged to
publish below testify eloquently to the value of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla:
y
“In my line of business, viz.,
miner and prospector on the
fields in the West, one is always
subject to feeling out of sorts on
account of the diet. Several
times I bad to give up work and
seek medical advice, wbicb is
Very expensive there*. I got no
relief, and then tried several
tonics, one after the other, but
they did me no lasting good.
Heading about Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla, I gave it a trial. It did me
more good, with lasting effect,
' than anything I ever took; and I
now always take two or three
bottles out with me and have
no more occasion for expensive
medical bills.” —Wm. Thomp-
son, Bindley St., Adelaide, S. A.
Such, a testimonial shows how valuable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is to those
who need strength, energy, a clear brain, and ability to prosecute
life s work successfully. It removes all feeling of exhaustion, braces
up, makes work easier, gives strength to the muscles, refreshes and
invigorates, and, best of all, takes out every impurity from the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
The Greatest of All Nerve Tonics.
Prepared by DH. J. C. AYBE & CO., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
Be sure that you are not induced to take some
other Sarsaparilla, claimed to be “just as good.”
See that you get “AYER’S” Sarsaparilla.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
?:■} si
COLOR
And
POST
}
Artistic
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we'will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with vou again. and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
S'
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm,
vve are the largest dealers; in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
PATERNOSTER’S
■i pills mm
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Lqnbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE $c TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
106 R«CORO’«
ltssE.w cE °f f e-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality'. Full directions for self-treat-
ment With internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY.
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by maii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
At/dress : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
xcz
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY .
BEECH AM'S
PILLS
have gained such a high reputation, have achieved such a colossal sale, that
1 is hard to realize that thousands of people, to-day, are martyrs to some form
of disease easily and completely curable by that particular medicine. Such
sufferers have probably tried the various “ remedies” brought to their notice
and having lost heart think there is nothing to do but “ grin and bear it.”
MARE.
no further mistakes of this kind. Unreliable preparations will inevitably land
you in deeper trouble. Proceed at once to get a box of BEECHAM’S PILLS
and give them a fair trial. You will not have long to wait for the first signs of
returning vigour. You will feel conscious that a positive cure is in progress.
ALE
the vital functions will be improving. Appetite growing keen, Liver and Kidneys
doing efficient work, Nervous system gathering tone, every sense of depression
and languor vanishing like evil dreams. The will to work and the power to do
will pervade your daily life so that your whole career may be influenced towards
prosperity as a consequence.
THE
cause of these happy changes is no mystery. BEECHAM’S PILLS are
compounded with great care of those pure vegetable drugs known to act most
beneficially upon certain bodily organs, viz. : the stomach, bowels, liver and
kidneys. These organs respond immediately to the healing stimulus, and
their return to healthy action the entire system undergoes a process of renova-
tion. The
DIFFERENCE
between your physical condition before and after taking a course of
B EEC HAM S PILLS will now become remarkably apparent, not to your-
self only, but also to your friends. When these enquire -into the cause
you can honestly give them the benefit of your experience should they
appear to need it. This is the only form of testimonial the proDrietor
of BEECHAM’S PILLS is really proud of. F F
*6/Z Pm* ‘K
‘Xoi ‘saxoa
NI
(nos
If You wisK to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your...
Rabbit iSKins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS* PRODUCE
HILL, CLARK (EX CO.,
SYDNEY.
•aes
forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
T T BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/3; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue' sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
xcz
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
injections.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
xz
xcz
MEN
NO
WOMEN
DR. MARTEN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply t,o
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pae-oct
J™"" B ™’ over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four Cctofed
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true sruide for ,ii
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanitv afflicted with lorn,
standing chrome, nervous, exhausting-, or painful diseases. No similar book has over been vnUislwc
FREE A ;, . n -P a ffe specimen copy of this grand work, containing :S4 illustrations and colored n'lete
Al«n “ uiKin mirii'ml'tS f, al r ,d ? a °i whattl >e Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE
■A 1 ®?. , MIND , ° VER “ A XI ER and BEHIND THE SCENES ■’ (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and ihs
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures orr “ Special” Ailments nit ,1
anywhere on receipt of Is fid (stamps). mTHote Address • po&u,J
DR. MARTIN, /VI,D., “E/miey House,’> /*>/ Elizabeths!
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. '*


HOT
WATER
BAGS
: v
:
The Very
Quality, with [
Patent Stopper I
and Handle. '
Sizes.
12in. x 6in.
12in. x Sin.
12in. x lOin.
Without
Covers.
7/-
Sr
8/6
Complete
w it II
Wool or
Sealett’e
Covers.
7/9
9/-
9/6
THESE WE GUARANTEE.
Perdriau Rubber Co,ltd
270 George Street, Sydney.
Our List of Winter requirements Free on Request.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So d tv all Chemists.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SISVSPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE
xzc
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
mmmmm
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
CQHF
Hz
wo
iiO
aa
'£xo
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers,
Also at
93 York Street,
SYDNEY
“ THE BLOC S,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J, laxfield, Ltd*, Sheffield
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
:
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad habits,
gratify ypur ambitions and produce amuse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free of charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book coats you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I willalso include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADENj B 9 Pitt St., Sydney
xcz
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181 b.--. Operated bv comm-essed air, consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN RocJk Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST„ MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Sola
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176* 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle- 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
xcz
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNit/ES
are the
BEST.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
xcz
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pomp than the Knowles/'
MARSHALL'S.
xc
R. L. SCRCTTOKf & CO. >•
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK- SOLE AGENTS -
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W. 1., Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fitt s,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe d
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam »
Requirements- Correspondence Invited.
BALL
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907
Order from Your Professional
or THE
Silvertoiun Rubber Co.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W'
m ■■
FAIRBANK BREARLEY LIMITED,
SHIPLEY, ENGLAND.
CO
CO
o
CO
cs
LU
CO
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.
AGENTS,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
486 COLUNS ST., MELBOURNE
