

DEW-A-R-’S
SIXTY
REPUTATION.
WH]
R.
Mining
G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
OBART.
jjadleu’s Orient (jote!
|f!!SS
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C.Ludowici & Son, Ud.. 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., yjjjw,
JEFFREY SYDNEY
SOLE AGENTS FOR
LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES for
Elevating & Conveying Any Class of
Material in Bulk, Bales, Boxes, &c.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE LISTS.
=\~
"Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTON’S
I
Fine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S
SAFES
DOORS
LDCKS
Tlaticnaly
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch:
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite'Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A QIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts andOanvaeeere Wanted. ~WI
u
■ti* l%t.
%
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT& CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
BINSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
k
is the Queen of&II Cocoas I
■ FOI^
jj
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
a
Regd.
Trade Mark.
I
<1
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
■
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Malting Machinery.
HE
Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GOLLIKT & CO., ja.geu.ta.
The Bulletin
V01.28.—N0. 1411.]
[Thursday, February 28, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NOW READY
OF AI,!, BOOKSELLER®.
fiUOKj
FACT’RY ’ANDS.
A BooK of City Humor.
wui " y EDWARD DYSON.
'Vifch many illustrations by WILL DYSON.
CLOTH BINDING 4/6, POSTAGE 6d. EXTRA.
GEORa£ ROBERTSON d CO. PROP. LTD., 7, CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY.
T'HE BOOKFELLOW, an Australasian weekly maga-
-1 zine, published every Thursday, price 3d. 12s. a
year post-free. Poetry, stories, reviews, pictures, prize
competitions. Specimen copy free from A. G. Stephens,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
The Great Antiseptic Remedy
for Influenza, Bronchitis,
Asthma, and ail Affections of
the Throat and Lungs, and the
Prevention of Consumption .
AN IDEAL REMEDY,
G.WJDSO/V.i^S
CONTAINING NO COCAINE OR OTHER POISONOUS DRUGS.
ASK FOR. HUDSON'S—TaKe no Substitute. SOLD IN TINS, 1/6.
May be taken daily by old and young-. Their Antiseptic properties prevent Abnormal Fermentation of the
Food, and are thus helpful in Indigestion and Dyspepsia. Sold by all Chemists, or post free from the Sole
Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland, on receipt of 1/6 in stamps of any State.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street W., London. fl.
THE RED PAGE
THE VISION EXQUISITE .
I stood in dream beneath a sky
dhat glowed in purple ecstasy ;
i. ojt-jooted zephyrs whispered by
And subtly soothed the soul of me.
Bifds sang elate in every tree,
lowers gemmed each sylvan corridor—
wor miles around I could not see
A single scowling creditor.
Methought this must be Heaven or
Some special paradise apart —
Mine own. And I was glad therefor,
smooth raptures crooned about my heart.
Then did a filmy form upstart ,
~ Clasping a shadowed Bulletin—
/ am the psychic counterpart,
/ he very Soul of Roderic Quinn.
“ e Js my passport, and therein.
All delicately sweet, 1 rhyme.
1 never roared of purple sin
Nor fouled my pen with sexual slime.
R>ut here, though, far from rake and mime,
Had Bedford lurks beside my path,
1 o stab me in the nick of time,
Or prod me in the aftermath.
“ sc f r my skin with lash and lath,
n J l f} e T . ov; l'l' n 9 Hervey skips from Hell;
! f lndsn y leaves the Place of Wrath,
And hurts me more than I can tell.
Heaven is somehow quite a sell,
When Luftig bumps me in the rear.
Ihe breezes sound a dismal knell
To frighten me, when Dyson’s near /
And so I moan—oh dear, oh dear 1 —
And wish them all in Lethe’s brook.
I hope I’ve made my troubles clear . . .
/am a persecuted spook /”
In sympathy his hand I took
And (never heeding the expense)
I gave him a most helpful book—
Half Hours with Maiden Innocence.”
I left him timid but intense,
Blushing but resolutely chaste,
Twisting (lest nymphs should jump the jence)
A wreath of leaves about his waist.
Then from my dream I woke abased ,
< Deeming ray hopes of Heaven slim.
Still. . . he’d a sugared aftertaste,
And l was very proud of him.
M. L.
FRANK MORTON.
EMMA HAMILTON
POLITE historians may hurry past Lady
Hamilton, and Nelson worshippers
bowdlerise her from their hero’s life;
but Emma, the blacksmith’s daughter
with the enchanting face, still smiles at us
mockingly down the years, for ever linke
with Nelson’s name. Nobody was able
gloss over Emma while Nelson lived ; an
since his death her natural, almost pagan
charm still witches us. How great he:
beauty was we have now an opportunity o ’
judging from the sympathetic biography
telling us perhaps little that is new, written
by E. Hallam Moorhouse— Nelson’s Lad
Hamilton (Methuen, per W. Dymock, Syd.)
Here Reynolds, Madame Le Brun, Lawrence
Angelica Rauflinan, and, above all, Romne’
(twenty-six of whose portraits are repro
duced) depict for us the enchanting Emma
in all her moods. As the biographer ob
serves:—
There is no hard and scheming worldliness in
that face, the worst fault is that it is a little soft
and sensuous ; but it is also gay. tender, appeal
ing, and always has a look of innocent radiance, f
fleeting, wild-wood air, a touch of the eterna
child—which she never entirely outgrew, in spite
of her manifold and mixed experiences. Emma’s
expressive face is typical of her character. Its
very mobility was the outward and visible sign o ’
an inward and spiritual weakness. She had not
a trace of real badness in her, only a fatal adapta
bihty, a perfectly chameleon capacity for taking
the color of her surroundings.
Of this daughter of the people, springina l
in sheer physical perfection from a waste of
undistinguished soil, endowed with a vitality
akin to that of Nature herself, cold Sir
William Hamilton enthusiastically said
‘ She is finer than anything in antique art.”
Her coloring, the author tells us, was of
“ the pure and perfect kind that goes with
warm, auburn hair, and this same hair was
almost the greatest of her many beauties,
growing in delicious lines from the broad,
low forehead, and flowing almost to her
heels.” Her eyes were grey, but they must
have been that kind of grey that is capable
of deepening and brightening, for they have
been described as both blue and violet.
“Take her all in all, it will be admitted
that the old Bishop of Berry was right, if
not particularly reverent, when he said that
the Creator was in ‘ a glorious mood ’ when
He made Emma.”
Contrast this “divine lady” with a pic-
ture, sharply drawn by Mrs. St. George, of
Emma in middle age :
She is bold, forward, coarse, assuming and
vain. Her figure is colossal, but, excepting her
feet, which are hideous, well shaped. Her bones
are large, and she is exceedingly embonpoint. She
resembles the bust of Ariadne ; the shape of all
Her features is fine, as is the form of her head,
and particularly her ears ; her teeth are a little
irregular, but tolerably white; her eyes light
blue, with a brown spot in one, which, though a
detect, takes nothing away from her beauty and
expression ; her eyebrows and hair are dark, and
her complexion coarse ; her expression is strongly
marked, variable, and interesting; her move-
ments in common life, ungraceful; her voice,
loud, yet not disagreeable.
But there was more than perishable beauty
in Emma. She had always the frank pagan-
ism of a child. Her “ misfortunes ” seemed
to leave no trace upon her soul.
She had a really marvellous power of recovery,
and a sort of ineradicable innocence—or, if that
word is barely applicable, a kind of freshness like
that of running water, for ever moving eagerly
forward, and for ever obliterating the traces of
the past. She had something of Nature’s own
quality, turning one season’s soilure and despair
to the music and the bloom and all the mighty
ravishment of spring.”
Hie biographer is intuitively appreciative;
but with a subject so incurably natural, so
brimming over with warm impulses, the
criteria of approval or blame would only blur
the picture. We have here a very human
account of a very human person. Let us
glance at one of Emma’s ill-spelt letters,
written in her distress after her seduction to
Charles Greville, that cool and philosophical
‘collector of rare and beautiful things,”
who at this moment was placidly ready to
add Emma to his collection.
My dear Greveil, —Yesterdy did I receve your
kind letter. It put me in some spirits, for, believe
me, lam allmost distracktid. I have never hard
from Sir H. [her seducer], and he is not at
Dechster now, lam sure. I have wrote 7 letters,
and no anser. What shall 1 dow ? Good God,
what shall I dow ? I can’t come to town for want
° ■ u° I ! ave a farthing to bless my self
with, and I think my frends look cooly on me. I
think so. O, G., what shall I dow ? What shall
I dow ? O how your letter affected me when you
wistied me happiness. 0, G., that I was in your
possession or in Sir H. what a happy girl would I
have been ! Girl indeed ! What else am I but
a girl in distress—in reall distress? For God’s
sake, G., write the minet you get this, and only
tell me what lam to dow. Direct some whay. I
am allmos mad. 0 for God’s sake tell me what
is to become on me. O dear Grevell, write tome.
Write to me. G., adue, and beleave yours for
ever.—Emly Hart.
Don’t tel my mother what distress I am in,
and dow afford me some comfort.
This poor ignorant girl had little prescience
of the remarkable adventures that were to
follow her appeal to Greville. How that
admirable philosopher would instruct and
tame her, and, tiring, quietly transfer her,
despite her wild entreaties, to his equally
philosophical uncle, the British Ambassador
to Naples; how, after her long probation
as his mistress, she would become the
wife of this delightful “authority upon
volcanoes ” who did not even guess that
he had married one. How into her
story would enter Nelson, at that time too
devoted to his profession to do anything but
criticise her thus aloofly to his wife : “ She
is a young woman of amiable manners, and
who does honor to the station to which she
has been raised ” ; how finally she would
capture the love, even the life, of the victor
of the Nile ; and how, after that brief phase
of triumph, she would drift out of England’s
life, and from England’s shores ; and, flam-
boyant, defiant, petitioning, gambling, and
drifting deeper and deeper into poverty, she
would die and be buried, the outcast that
she was at the end as at the beginning of
her life, in an unknown grave in French
soil. Emma’s mere lovely face lifted her
from her obscurity and carried her on to
adventures more romantic and extraordinary
than ever befel a man. In Emma Hamilton
woman, who is the supreme adventurer in
life, may see and study the characteristics of
the type.
A —_
,o^?.°^ er , is made by T - C - Lothian, publisher,
49 Elizabeth-street, Melb., of £lOO for a novel by
an Australian author. This is the practical sort
ot encouragement of Australian literature • anc
Dot loan is to be commended for his belief in the
literary possibilities of the Commonwealth
Possibly, too, he may find it pay. Particulars of
*b o competition will be found in the next issue of
J ke Native Companion. By the way, that little
review owns the patriotic distinction of beimr
printed upon Australian-made paper.
South Africa, too, laments her unborn national
nov , eL LV y H Monthly John Forrest
writmg of S. Africa s favorite novelists, deposes
Rider Haggard from the most popular place. He
remarks that Jess “is something of a classic'in S
Afnca. „ On the outskirts of Pretoria “Jess’s
cottage is still pointed out to visitors. And Olive
bhreiner has never fulfilled the remarkable promise
tb °l Farm. Forrest remarks
that this book is chiefly of interest because of
the importance to which it-once attained; as a
piece of literature or art it always seemed to me
scarceJy worth calculating. Crude in Tts
°j°By» disjointed in construction, plotless and
almost wholly lacking in incident or ’ it
2 t ?, b t in facfc ; dostltute of almost every
So? Th« g r S tothe ™ al «ng of readable
notion. Ihe strength and power was in its
subtle atmosphere ’ and that a quality so elusive
should have gained for it the place it held in the
estimation of readers who cared little for its
un erlying philosophy must be accounted a com-
p i merit for which the author is entitled to take
Fm-rflffiA ? prop het m her own country !
r orrest finds there are no popular S. African
writers, and blames the local press for lack of
encouragement to native talent.
THE L.P.A.
The two latest comers in the commerce of
Literature are the literary press agent and the
agent, both indigenous to the United
States. The publicity bureau is a machine that
makes public opinion to order by the simple ex-
pedient of supplying gratis tainted news, either
as editorial pronouncements or as news-items, to
every paper that can be subverted by the offer of
free copy. The publicity agent has nothing to do
with the advertising columns of a paper ; readers
would suspect special pleading in that depart-
ment. He works more subtly through the edi-
torial columns. Needless to say, he is usually
employed by trusts-or some other enemy of the
public, and his methods are remarkably clever
and usually extraordinarily effective.
But the profession of the literary press agent
has more interest for the author; and his
‘‘ Confessions ” in the American Bookman
(Dec.) are charmingly naive. Most publishing
houses send out to the press in advance “literary
notes ’ designed to attract attention to their
forthcoming books. The literary press agent saw
Ins chance to make these of more interest to the
public and to the publisher. In other words, he
seized upon the opportunity of “ booming ” the
author. He determined to exploit books, to
handle books as news. He found out that the
book-buying audience was most easily captured
by attracting their attention to the author. He
made it his trade to work up that interest—and
he found the author not altogether reluctant to
be exploited.
Ihe literary press agent recalls “the case of
a certain eminent ‘best selling’ novelist who
sometimes writes with a torch. He said to
me : ‘l’ll stand for anything you write about
me. Nobly he kept his Word. He was the
centre of a perfect maelstrom of dissension, yet
the hotter it grew, the more he liked it. When
• slumbered, he poked it himself and kept
it blazing.” With this kind of author the literary
press agent does his deadliest work. Then he
forgets that a book is a book. He simply knows
that it is a thing to be waved like a red
nag in the face of the public. “I remember
the case of a certain author who fairly drips with
publicity, who came to me some time before one
of his very successful books appeared, and said :
‘ I his book is bound to create a great fuss (I
believe he wrote it to do that very thing). You
will know what to do when that happens.’ Well
—I did it.”
Another author who loved publicity more than
bread and meat—though publicity to him would
be literally bread and meat —came to the I.p.a.
with a violent communication that he wanted to
let loose on the world.
“ ‘ What do you advise ?.’ he asked.
‘‘ ‘ I should not send it out,’ I replied.
“‘ I have already sent it,’ he said. What can
you do with a genius of that calibre?”
The wiles of the I.p.a. are various. He can
fasten a “mystery” on an author, or cloak his or
her identity with the “unknown”; he can
got much profitable advertisement out of the
mere fact that an author preferred to use a
pseudonym. With a woman it is easy to say that
she is “widely known,” and for personal
reasons prefers to remain anonymous. “The
very moment you can introduce this intan-
gible quality about the identity of the
author, you create interest; for people,
especially women, are curious, you know.”
Then there is the invaluable speculation as to the
sex Of an author.
All authors are not enamored of this business of
introducing genius to immortality. There is the
case of a woman who writes real books. The I.p.a.
planned the campaign of one of her novels,
lor months her picture and dignified stories
about her appeared everywhere. The book
was her greatest popular "success. She said
to him one day : “I am really em-
barrassed by all this publicity. Can’t you
stop it?” The I.p.a. promised to do what he
could. For her next book, at her express desire,
he kept the publicity “lid” on tight. Well—it
did not sell as well as the one before.
But success creates competition, and the I.p.a.
deplores the fact that it is becoming the fashion
for some authors impolitely to act as their own
press agents. “ I forbear to mention names, but
certain activities during the past year strongly
indicate that some of them have designs upon my
job.” It should be an easy matter to unearth
■those names.
4’.i The I.p.a. glories in his job. “ The very
qpsychology of making an absolutely unknown
■author known is an intensely fascinating thing.
From your desk you send that first tiny, trickling
stream of publicity that sometimes becomes a
rushing torrent, bearing on its breast fame, fortune
and success. “ Perhaps I have given the impres-
sion,” he frankly acknowledges, “that the author’s
writing a book is a mere incidental performance.
Without the book, my machinery would be idle,
although it has been said by a very eminent pub-
lisher of one gentleman in my profession (We can
pierce the modesty of that paraphrase) that he
could get publicity out of a book with blank
pages.”
So now the young author knows how literary
fame is made—in America. . . And in England ?
♦
Thomas Hardy has a little poem in Jan
Fortnightly.
“ I have finished another year,” said God ...
And let the last sun down.”
The poet cheekily asks Him, “ What’s the good
• ” >. but God is not to be cross-questioned.
With chilly politeness He remarks,
“ Strange, that ephemeral creatures who
By my own ordering are,
Should see the shortness of my view,
Use ethic tests I never knew,
Or made provision for ! ”
And, having thus pulverised the poet,
He sank to raptness as of yore ...
And went on working evermore
In His unweeting way.
SOME “LOAVES OF BREAD ”
In the recent Rubaiyat competition some
excellent parodies of the celebrated “Loaf of
Bread ” quatrain were submitted. A few arp
worth quotation.
A Book of Sporting Information up to Date j
A Pint of Beer, a Pipe, a Silent Mate
To listen as our Eloquence we Air—
The Rest we leave to Time and Luck and Fate.
W.H.D.
A Loaf—but not of Bread—beneath the Bough
One’s Billy-Can and Swag slung anyhow, ’
With blood-shot eyes that scan the sun-bakec
plain,
A Wilderness of Wildernesses now.
E.W.D.
A Tin of Corned Sheep’s Tongues beneath the
Bough,
A Damper and a Can of Tea, and now
A pipe of Weed to calm the brain for rest—
Ha ! Surely this is Paiadise enow.
Thomas Porter.
A Brief sojourn beside a Billabong,
A Feed, a Smoke, a Yarn, a ribald Song-
Like Phantoms, Lo ! the Travellers come and go—
“ Day Mate !” and then—and then, for aye, “So
Long ! ”
J.S.
So, with my head beneath a gum-tree Bough,
Fresh Beer beside., a Bulletin (stale), and thou,
Sweet Crow, wide croaking in the wilderness—’
That wilderness is Paradise enow.
O'Mura K. Ham.
I see the Track beneath the Sugar-Gums,
The old Slip-Rails—the two Top Rails are down
My Arms are folded round my Love ; her Heart
Beats on my Breast ! The King may keep his
Crown.
Jean St. Josephs.
A Bulletin beneath the Gum-tree bough,
A Loaf, a Read, a Pipe, a Yarn, and thou
Boiling the Billy by the River-bank—
That’s all the Heaven that I want, anyhow.
Semicolon.
&
Other apt assorted quatrains are worth salvage :
Would that dead Yesterday were dead indeed ;
Would that unborn To-morrow might not he ;
But ever Cause and Consequence make sport
Of Omar, and his false philosophy.
Viking.
You tell me Wine has made me what I am.
What matter, Friend ? Though Wine have power
to Damn
He bears a double Sceptre, and for me
A Benediction’s hid within the Dram.
H.J.W.
Scatter with Shouting what with Sweat you earn,
Then with flat Pockets yon shall 1 eanly learn
The Secret of your Life : “ Drink while you can !
When you are Broke back to the Sheds return.”
A. W.
But while the hard-earned Cash holds out you pass
The days in all a Sultan’s pomp. Alas !
There comes the hour when at the Shanty Bar
The Keeper’s eye Glares at vour empty Glass.
M.E.F.
Why then be troubled by the March of Fate?
What if the Monkey grins outside our Gate?
Let’s wander ’long the pleasant Harbor Side,
Then lean against a handy Post and wait.
Noah Sark.
The Bullock Driver smites, and having smit,
Smites on ; nor all his Piety or Wit
Can lure those Bullocks even half an inch,
Unless he can, perchance, Blaspheme a Bit!
SemicoUn.
Some worry much about the Yellow’ Face,
And say, Right Here the Half-caste grows apace.
Oh, let them fret —’tis written by the Fates
What shade will be the Great Australian Race!
S. L. F.
Some for the Glories of.the Towm, and some
Sigh for the Shores where Ocean-Breakers come.
Give rue the Bush, and let the Bustle go.
Oh, for the Miles of "Wattle, Belar, Gum !
L'lnconnu.
There’s Sosh, and Anti-Sosh, well, let them rest,
For Anti-Sosh’s a foolish Cry. at best.
Ah, take the change, and let the Freetrade go;
Nor heed the moaning of our Bingey Guest.
Crowcater O'Mara.
But though they laugh the bottles off the shelves,
And shake the Earth as deep as miner delves,
I often wonder what the Townies see
One-half so funny as they are themselves.
Ande.
I heard much discourse of the gorgeous sell,
The speed of h.orses and the Bush town’s Belle;
I often wonder where the Bushmen hear
Lies half so Lurid as the Lies they tell.
Thomas Porter.
A well-reasoned indictment, amply buttressed
by damning facts, of British neglect of the
British seaman, is provided by A. E. Gay in
England's Duty to her Merchant Seamen (Sands
and McDougall, Adelaide). Gay clearly shows
that the British sailor is not treated as he de-
serves to be, and “ that the Britisher, sailor and
owner alike, is being squeezed off the high seas,
crowded out of the world’s ports, by the alien.”
He suggests that in the cure of the former evil
would be found the remedy of the latter. The
f uture Gibbon, whose task it may be to treat of
the decline and fall of another Empire, will find
many an explanation of that catastrophe in
treatises such as this.


On the “Noted Good Values” Ocean.
H ?•
%
mJm *
m
mm
V
V
m
. ■/;
m
!
s
; •'
m
K
■mm us.
'.MU J I
Ssp A
m
%
4
%
3*
mk
i
s
ss
x
l
s.
S\
S'
l
tk
AliUu.V
r
\
W\
SC
' "o
5s
I
5
la
V t
m
Wa
/
%
pums
\
li)
»
%
ON BOARD THE INVINCIBLE.
At the Wheel s LITTLE SNAP.
Commander and Officers:
F. LAS«$ETTER & CO., Ltd., Cheapside, SYDNEY
The Largest Universal Providers, Manufacturers, Wholesalers, and Retailers. Sell Goods in all parts of
the World. Their General Catalogue, a Buyer’s Encyclopaedia, is SENT FREE on application.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1907.


Australian Mutual Provident
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutu
Society.
I Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C P . . Cit y or Suburban Properties, or on
of Government
tralian States or Ncw Zeak»nd r w l r c^ sury Bi,,s of any of the Aus "
OumPwMnrft, n . • AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST,
up to 20 p“r cenT of thP wfT,* condition allow l n ? Borrowers the privilege of repaying
n,evrTOpe Jn ! g any year> without notice or payment of any fine:
Short, Esq. ; James' Burnf Esq The Hoi? 1 llfT T h r< HO w‘ w T ‘ Walker > Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’ r.1./v., 1.F.A., F.S.S.
’ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd, -- ° '
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
™ MARSHAL S KI NS
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best -idvant^T P a RTS V pay j pecial attention
Exceptional faoSities are tffered by thVCompany toWHEAT f? d T d I T mptlr ;
tbeir grain. Full particulars will be furnished on a PI dicMi<m HEAT ' toC ,tee Btor “Se of
GRIP DROPPER.”
~ »»±±± uo luruisneu on application.
Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent
R
EMEMBER what a shock you got when you first realised that you had
developed a “ bald spot ” ? Barber had no trouble inducing you to have
your hair singed when you next visited him? (The hair is not a tube’
therefore you wasted time and money there.) The shampoos you had
left the cause untouched, and the oils and greasy preparations you used
only helped to smother the life from the delicate hair bulbs, and
actually fed the bacteria that was causing the trouble.
“ That Bald Spot ” still goes on growing larger and larger. Beginning to feel
like resigning yourself to the inevitable ? Don’t be discouraged. Take a good
long look at that scalp of yours. Any “ down ” there ? Yes ? YOUR BALD
NESS IS CURABLE. lam prepared to give you a written guarantee that
“ Capilla” wilt give you back
your hair.
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
will force that “down ” into strong, healthy
hair, or refund you the cost of the prepara-
tion. It s a straightforward proposition
from a man who honestly believes in the
merits of his remedy, and who wants those
who act on his advice to be nothing out of
pocket. It’s a fair offer. Are you going to
avail yourself of it? STOP ! DON’T leave it
till to-morrow. Go to your chemist or store
and buy a bottle of “ Capilla ” TO-DAY, or write me NOW! You’ll save hair
and money by acting NOW.
_ Tonic is sold everywhere at Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle, full course of 6 bottlpq
i9s - 2d - x th »
*
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s *
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &e., and can he used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formula) printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Elec tine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY competition.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS,; CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POBT FREE.
HOULDER
BROTHERS & CO.
Ltd.
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS.
Specially Constructed
for- Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c "
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW,
&c.
Steamer.
HORNBY GRANGE ..
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE..
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE ..
Tons.
3,950
3,650
5,420
9,400
10,500
6,230
6,770
Steamer.
BEACON ORANGE .
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw)
THORPE GRANGE .. ’
HAYERSHAM GRANGE
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
SOUTHERN CROSS ..
Tons-
-6,770
9,300
10.500
6,380
11.500
11,500
7,420
, * lr st. Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine Electric T ie-ht
f° r J?“? a ' tlc “l ars > at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET SYDNEY L ght
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street Glasgow 337 Cille Cnvn Pncnna
A.res. 446 Calle San Martin, Eosajo Grao Dbck, Ensenada La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Mead Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E. 0.
Nature’s Own Pood
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh Milk
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
TRY
6^
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
For Kangaroo and Big Game
HMG,
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hare a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpirad only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, SNCL,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c,, everywhere.
There’s SECURITY in
Barter’s
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER,
IFURRED TONGUE.
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION.
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS
Small Pill. Small Dos#. Small Price;
They TOUGH the
Be
LIVER
Sure they are Carter's


Not every
woman
can afford
to have
a maid.
Not many
wou 1 d
want one
around, any-
way. But you
certainly can
afford to have
Ayer’s Hair Vigor;
and most women would
be greatly improved by
it, too. It means so much
to have long, rich, heavy
hair; soft, smooth, glossy hair. And
this is just the kind of hair you may
have, if you wish it. If you wish all
tho deep, rich color of youth restored
to your hair,
will certainly satisfy you.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
\
It looks better
And lasts longer;
Softens the leather;
Preserves the shoes.
It is not so sticky, or dirty, does_ not run, and
will not smut when moistened. Its increasing use
the world around is due to its great superiority,
and it can be applied more easily and quickly than
any other kind of boot polish. Made only by
C. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
BOSTON. MASS., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
John S. Deed & Sons, Ltd.
LONDON, ENGLAND.
IS THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
AND A
BAD ONE
0
US
-J BN
try r
By
Boyal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR ”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
tis Replacing All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LiniTED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
[1
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITS
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
FITS CURED
From the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
permanently the very worst cases of Epilepsy when every
other remedy has failed. English Prices, 4/6 and 117-
Thousandsof Testimonials. Of all Chemists, Stores, etc
Wholesale Agents:
SAYEES, ALLPOET & POTTEE, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist
25 High-street, Belfast, Ireland.
IRISH
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes, u describes every Viitfh-nlass work
grad Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between higli Cl
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own mterest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
you Trill receive the most liberal and marvelloua Bicycle offer
ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes
“ Hunvadi Tanos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.
Average Dose :-A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water .
Mote the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
CAUTION.
Limited.
* 'Vv ...
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE
It ©tic®
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels*
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
Vif
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of Satan.
I’ve a song to sing of the sable King
Who is throned in the nether fire ;
I’ve a lay to lilt of the Lord of Guilt,
And the Prince of strong Desire ;
Just a paean of praise for the stormy ways
Of the First who strove and fell;
May it cheer his heart, where he dwells apart
In the gloom of the halls of Hell.
When he softly crept where the woman slept
At the foot of an Eden tree,
And his whispered word all her pulses stirred
With a glad new ecstasy ;
Then Desire was born, and the veil was torn
From the eyes of the conscious maid ;
And she laid her charms in his circling arms,
In the cool of the Life-tree’s shade.
And before that night all her blood ran white,
And her love lay cold and dead ;
But she felt the fire of his warm desire,
And her veins were flushed with red ;
And each flaxen tress, at his hot caress
(Ah ! the way that a maid is won !)
Was empassioned through with a S|nguine hue,
Like the glint of a golden sun.
Then she went her way at the dawn of day
To the nook where her master,slept.
With a strange surprise in her starry eyes,
And a blush where the blood had leapt;
And he roused and turned, where her great eye
burned
With a light like an aureole;
By the crimson hue of her face he knew—
And the First Hate filled his soul.
He looked askance at her pleading glance,
And the red of her cheek and hair ;
Till she touched his feet, and the thrill ran sweet,
And he saw that her form was fair ;
’Mid the blooms a-swoon in that primal June,
He was taught that with Love lives Pain ;
But he ate the Fruit, and he reft the lute,
And the world knows the child as Gain.
And till now, since then, have the sons of men
Played the game as did their Sire ;
And the sons of God rather close have trod
In the steps of the lordly Liar;
So where’er on earth there are joy and mirth,
And the song and the dance and feast,
There the parsons claim —but they play their
game—
Is the mark of the Horned Beast.
But a lay I lilt, and a lance I tilt,
For the Lord of Strong Desire,
Who has ruled the world since he down was
hurled
To the depths of the nether Fire ;
If he cursed our dust with the lure called Lust,
That has turned all the Peace to Strife,
He has breathed the breath of the boon called
Death
In the soul of the Dream named Life.
tas.
A.J.W.
Men.
The dears are versed in certain rules
That treat of Woman.
That classify the rogues and fools
And angels human.
They wot not of the craft and art
Beneath her smiling,
In part she is a dupe —in part
A cheat beguiling.
They take the play of mouth and eyes
For soul expression,
And scent no trickery or lies
In love’s confession.
They look—yet see upon her face
No mask dissembling,
But caught by some entrapping grace
Start all a-trembling.
“You love me, dear ! ” they whisper oft—
The woman nestles—
They dream not that on her lips soft
The old lie wrestles.
“ It is so good for you and I
To be together ”
They say—she ducks and prods his eye
With her toque feather.
“ How long have you loved only me?”
They question, sighing—
“ For ages,” trills she in a key
Of practised lying.
“ I am so blest,” in rapture, they
Repeat, adoring ;
She smiles content, but, lack a-day !
She finds it boring.
And sometimes, when suspicions rise,
Their voices tremble ;
But oh ! reproof creeps to her eyes,
Her tears assemble. A
Repentant and ashamed they seek
Her pardon kneeling;
And she, with false averted cheek,
Forgives with feeling.
When they would ask with jealous rage
About “ the others,”
She cries the old cry of the stage—
They are but brothers.
And so she gulls them all save one,
Her soul lie harries ;
He is a rude and scoffing Hun,
him she marries.
VIC.
E. STONE.


0 I
■m
Mis« KELLERMANN
{the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY’S
COCOA
absolutely
PURE
endurance,;°r in the equally arduous duties of the test j* ° f strength and
etc., It. is imperative that you should take an ahm!rl™ l c ’ workshop, home,
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCO A n “ • 6 °t pu llqmd food -
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE i? o P ' eS th , e chle . f place *
benefit to the muscular and nervous svstmn* V gives substantial
time can bei absorbed’wlth' iuTdiS effort' Same
A Perfect hood. — Health. '
Insist on getting CADBURY’S,
\l
BQ
m
COLD STORAGE IN THR HOnF
... HOUSEHOLD ...
K€ MACHINE.
T H w l0 !u of . perishable goods in the sultry Summer
Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refri«er-
atmg machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the meltino-
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result ; but this
would be unpracticable on account of its expense. It costs
very little with a BRUNSWICK-J-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
■ buzac OTT & CO., Ltd., 7& 9 Market St., Sydney.
Agsnts
$
Y
A
pa
ALWAYS FIRST.,
fIICHELIN TYRES were the first
Hotor Tyres made. They finished
first, in- all the big motoring contests
of the last few seasons, and to=day still)
easily hold first position for speed and
reliability. The Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th cars in
e f»1 eat Vanderbilt Cup race were all on
nichelms ; and the Ist, 2nd, sth, 6th and Bth
cars in the Grand Prix owe their success to
the same make of tyres.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—
BARNET GLASS & CO.,
City Depot,
226 FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
JOHNOECCS.
Scotch whisky
wt
f
w,
m
A
/
A
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
A SUMMER. BOON, Don’t forget
FRANZ JOSEF”
Has the largest sale and is superior to all
others.
RISK’S WHISKY
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOTELS.
■ A
Is simply
Perfection.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty The King.
The flavour, essence, nutriment and all that’s good in mime
ox-beef is concentrated in Bovril.
A little Bovril added.to soups and made dishes renders them
more appetising and nutritious. 3 them
▼
m
till
111 l
11l
IS your house roofed with galvanised iron? Have you any iron
gates, railings, or fences ? If so, get a tin of FLEXITE METAL
PRESERVATIVE PAINT at once* A gallon tin will cover
600 square feet of surface* FLEXITE is not merely a paint, it is a
preservative which protects the iron against rust, oxidation and decay,
and gives you a cool roof* FLEXITE also preserves wood, brick,
:stone, and concrete*
R IRON
FLEXITE
PAINTS,
RED, GREEN,
OLIVE and
BLACK, w ay
be obtain ie d
from a r j
Stored nepers.
Wholesale
Agents . . .
E. RICH &. CO., ETD., Sydney &
Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1411.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1907.
Pbice 6d.
THE SHIP OF ANTI-SOSH.
THERE are NOW THREE ANTI-SOSH PARTIES IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES. REID COMMANDS ONE JOHN QUICK
ANOTHER. IRVINE WANTS TO LEAD THE THIRD. MEANWHILE THE STEERING IS A TRIFLE ERRATIC.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, ivhether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of it IS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Itlach ami White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i. e., any picture which has to be re-draivn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each, mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Aerica. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson & Co., 38 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co. , Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llongKong. —Brewer and Co., 32 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lUin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7j^sxzlleZZ7i.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1907.
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY
AGREEMENT.
The details of the agreement for the transfer of
the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth
have been published, and the outlook is even
better than might have been expected. There
was a fear least things might be done in a small,
niggling, fragmentary way in the interests of
that economy which saves a penny to-day at the
cost of 7s. 6d. later on, and that the ark might be
spoiled for want of a penn’orth of pitch. That
has not been done. The ark might have been
pitched a little more profusely without doing it
any harm, but still it has been pitched very re-
spectably. The Commonwealth is to take over
the Territory with all its assets and its three or
four millions of debt. It is to buy the existing
South Australian railway from Port Augusta to
Oodnadatta, and is to extend it till it joins the
Territory’s scrap of line at Pine Creek, and
thus make a complete transcontinental system
from deep water on the south to deep water
on the north, every mile of it under Federal
control. South Australia is to permit the Com-
monwealth to build through its territory a line to
the Westralian boundary as part of a western
transcontinental railway to Kalgoorlie and Perth.
And South Australia is to be paid by the Com-
monwealth undertaking a sufficient amount of the
debt of the Crow-eater State to represent the cost
of the Port Augusta-Oodnadatta line, and the
liabilities of the bankrupt and unfortunate Terri-
tory. The only regrettable feature seems to be
that the transfer does not include the bit of rail-
road from Port Augusta to Adelaide. The line
between Melbourne and Adelaide and thence
on to Terowie is of sft. 3in. gauge, eminently
suited for swift and easy travelling. From
Terowie to Port Augusta, and thence to
Oodnadatta, it is a line of 3ft. 6in. gauge—over
500 miles of the bumpy and crawling variety of
railway, not at all suited for the red-hot haste
that passengers aim at when they have a con-
tinent to cross. If the Commonwealth acquired the
whole outfit from Adelaide northwards it might
make the existing track a broad-gauge affair,
and build the new track on the same measure-
ment, and make the line one on which the trans-
continental express could pursue the crow with
some chance of overtaking that cheerless fowl.
Still, as already stated, Prime Minister Deakin
has done his part of the business fairly well. The
question of the ratification of this agreement by
the Australian Parliament nowdependson whether
that Legislature is capable of thinking in conti-
nents or only in parishes. Australians are too apt
to forget the magnificence of their inheritance,
yet of all people on earth they are the ones who
should think in continents, because their race is
the only one in this world that has a whole conti-
nent to think in. On this subject, it is almost
needless to say, the parish yap of Sydney Tele-
graph has already been heard. That paper already
sees on the horizon a wrongdone to the Ma State. It
is shocked at the proposal that the Commonwealth
should have pledged itself to build, at great cost,
a railway through the Territory, despite the fact
that, until there is a railway to make the Com-
monwealth’s new 7 property accessible, it can never
be more than a bad debt. The idea of spending
five or six millions ip order to open up 523,000
square miles of Australia, and make it capable of
being turned into cash, and settled with a
revenue-producing population, apparently doesn’t
appeal to the Telegraph. It would rather the
523,000 square miles, not being in New South
Wales, should remain useless wilderness. It is
also grieved at the proposed purchase of the Port
Augusta-Oodnadatta line, and sees in this trans-
action signs of deep conspiracy on the part of
South Australia. That line is certainly a dead
loss now, because it ends at Nowhere-in-the-
Desert —just the same kind of loss that the Tele-
graph’s printing machine would be if it were left
standing on the banks of the Finite River —but it
may easily become a splendidly paying asset
when it is part of a railway which stretches
right across Australia, and forms the shortest road
to Europe and Asia. Any person who is capable
of thinking in continents, and who deserves to
have a continent to think in, must realise that the
great trans-Australian railway should be under
one control right through, and that, both for pur-
poses of defence and of convenience, it would be
absurd to have to change at the town of Goi>-for-
gotten in the centre of Australia, because there
the national line ended and the parish one began.
And the Telegraph is angry at the prospect of
another transcontinental railway to Perth. It
figures out that—until the new property becomes
reproductive—N.B.W. will have to pay £82,000 a
year towards the Territory in addition to its share
of the cost of the great railway, and it asks what
Ma State has done that it should be thus
trodden on.
* ■» * •
Obviously this is the sort of argument which
any State might advance if it chose to think in a
purely parish spirit. All the States will have to
contribute towards the support of the Territory,
just as the editor of the Telegraph would have to
contribute towards the support of his infant if he
one, until the expansion of the new province,
when it becomes accessible, brings the money
back, and wipes off the debt and the deficits, or
till the expansion of the infant makes it self-
supporting and able to do something for its aged
and infirm parent. The Territory is Australia’s
infant—the only one it has—its whole birth-rate,
in fact; therefore the comparison is a fair one.
There have been people in this world of good
deeds and bad deeds, of great minds and small
minds, and minds that were so small as to be prac-
tically non-existent, who have given their fortunes
and their lives for their country—sometimes for a
very small country—and history has written their
names large in letters of gold. The name of the
Telegraph, which grudges twopence for the sake
of a continent, will be written small in letters of
mud. The taking over of the Northern Territory
and the provision of the means of communication
which are absolutely essential to settlement,
represent the greatest effort at self-defence that
Australia has made in all its history. This
country has no navy and hardly any army,
which are two ghastly points of weak-
ness in any country, yet even an irre-
gular force can do a great deal for defence,
as the Boers showed under Joubert and
Botha, and the Mexicans under Diaz and Juarez.
The utterly hopeless weakness of Australia lies in
the fact that round more than half its coast—
say from Townsville on the north-east to Gerald-
ton on the south-west —there isn’t even a mob,
and that round fully two-thirds of its circum-
ference —from Rockhampton, by the north,
west and south coast line to Port Augusta—there
is no railway that can bring even a mob
from the comparatively well-peopled south-east
to a point of danger. To make the emptiest
and most defenceless and most desirable part of
the deserted North accessible, and to garrison it
with a white population, is a great work, and to
connect the isolated West with the East and
make it also as defensible as our resources will allow
is one that is scarcely less great. If the people of
any State, at the instigation of a parochial party
and a parochial press, haggle over their little
temporary contribution to the work of safe-
guarding and developing Australia, they don’t
deserve to have a continent or a future. Nature
intended them to be a suburb, like Hoxton or
Hackney or Peckham Rye, with a vestry
and a beadle. In its high-falutin’ moments,
even the worst variety of the parish press
is fond of speaking largely about “the Em-
pire” and the necessity for developing it, defend-
ing it, and making noble sacrifices for it when the
occasion requires. But it is rarely that a chance
presents itself to make sacrifices for the whole
empire at once; even the largest sacrifice may
not make St. Helena feel any better, while Belize
and the Falkland Islands and Baluchistan may
never even hear of it. As a rule, the best chance
that comes in the way of any patriot is to do
something for a part of the empire—the part
which needs it at the moment. The Northern
Territory is part of the empire, and so is the Com-
monwealth generally ; and a chance now presents
itself for the Australian people to spend a
few shillings apiece—with a fair prospect
of getting them back later on—in making this
part of the empire something greater and more
hopeful than it has ever yet been. The Sydney
Telegraph is worried about the twopence, and
thinks matters should be postponed indefinitely,
and that we should wait to see if we can’t help
the empire with only ljd. It is to be hoped that
the Telegraph doesn’t represent any sentiment
save its own.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The “Tuberculozyne” Case.
One of the first attempts to get at the quack who
lives on the misfortunes and miseries of others
has been made in Sydney, and has fallen through.
Here is a condensed report of the case :
James Auld Rennie was charged with falsely pretend-
ing to John Samuel Sheauston that a certain liquid
called “ Tuberculozyne ” contained copper and was a
cure for consumption, by means of which he obtained
£6. Dr. Ashburton Thompson, president of the Board
of Health, said the medicine, according to analysis,
would be ineffective as a cure for consumption. Mr.
W. M. Hamlet, who analysed a sample of the liquor
from two bottles in the possession of Shearston, stated
that No. 1 bottle contained a pink mixture made up
of colored water, glycerine, potassium bromide, and
cinnamon. For the defence, George A. Byrn, analyti-
cal chemist, who analysed several samples of tubercu-
lozyne, stated that in one of the bottles he found cap-
sicum, tolu balsam, ipecacuanha, alcohol, glycerine,
phosphate of sodium, potassium, cudbear, oil of cassia,
iron, and water ; and in the other, oil of almonds, glyce-
rine, copper, coloring matter, and water. Other wit-
nesses stated that, on analysing the mixture, traces of
copper were found. Rennie produced a copy of a
formula, which Dr. Ashburton Thompson stated would
not be recognised as a specific against consumption.
A verdict of not guilty was returned.
Copper, as a cure for consumption, would probably
be regarded by any jury of medical men as a
mockery, but, however that may be, it seems in
this case as if even the copper was a matter of
accident. One analyst explored the contents of a
bottle sold by the defendant, and found four in-
gredients, including water, but no copper.
Another analyst, for the defence, wrestled with a
second bottle, and found 12 ingredients, but no
copper ; and in a third bottle he found five in-
gredients, including a little copper. The blas-
tiferous “ Tuberculozyne ” seems to be a mixture
of many things, and whether a patient strikes
one bottle or the other, there appears every reason
to consider that he is a swindled consumptive.
Possibly the hash is harmless— The Bulletin
doesn’t know—but a harmless mixture may
amount to the cold-blooded murder of a consump-
tive just as much as a keg of prussic acid. A
patient who is capable of being cured under
proper treatment may waste his time over the
bottles of rubbish manufactured by shameless and
grasping quacks till he becomes incurable; and
in that case the quack has killed him just as much
as if he beheaded him with an axe. In this case
the bottled slush was manufactured by a Yankee
person or company, and imported'here in drums.
The local manager pleaded that he knew
nothing of medicine, and he was acquitted, the
Judge concurring on the ground that he pro-
bably believed—or, at least, there was no possi-
bility of proving that he didn’t believe —the
statements that he issued about his dreadful
“ Tuberculozyne.” It seems to The Bulletin
that when a Judge and jury have got into this
state of mind through being long accustomed to
see quacks flourish with impunity at the public
expense, they need to be dragged out of the
mental rut by strong legal process. When an
ignorant man—ignorant in a medical sense-
acting as agent for some foreign swindler who is
out of the jurisdiction of the Australian courts,
advertises a useless mixture as a cure for a most
serious disease, he should be held liable. He
doesn’t state in his advt. that he is an ignorant
person, who knows nothing about the truth of his
own statements, and only puts them forward on
the authority of some person who is possibly
just as ignorant, and who, in any case, is too
remote to be got at. He sells his bottle of wash
as one having authority and not as the scribes, and
if he assures the public that “Tuberculozyne”
will cure consumption when he hasn’t the least
medical knowledge as to whether it will or not,
his cheek ought to be no palliation of the offence.
Only an utterly heartless wretch would delude
miserable and often impoverished consumptives
into spending pounds on alleged remedies, and
probably into neglecting really curative measures
while they use these remedies, unless he knew, as
a matter of expert personal knowledge, that the
article he sold was a specific. A plea that he had
never received any medical training, and so was
only taking the money of the consumptives at
random, should be good in itself for a long term of
gaol.
The Territory, and Another Grievance.
Something like 3000 years ago the Jewish King-
dom, which David had raised to the dignity of
being the greatest Power on earth, was cursed
with its Ma State problem. Ephraim was the
aggrieved Ma State of the Hebrew Common-
wealth. Its grievance was that the Government
was located in the territories of Judah, and within
80 years of the time when Israel began to have a
capital, “ the drunkards of Ephraim ’’ burst up the
show, in order to have a capital city in their own
bit of land, and then the divided kingdom
slithered swiftly down hill to ruin. The morning
press of Sydney has a wonderful desire to see
N.S.W. act the part of Ephraim. Because the
Australian Government and Parliament isn’t all
N.S.W. it finds a grievance in everything they do
and everything they leave undone. The Federal
capital isn’t established in N.S.W. mainly because,
when the Australian Parliament accepted the
locality which N.S. W.’s own trusted and specially
appointed official selected as the best, the
Sydney morning press denounced the proposal
as a horrible injury done to the Ma State. The
fact that the Parliament sits in Melbourne while
waiting to be allowed to move into N.S.W. is
also an injury to the Ma State. Practically every-
thing else is an injury. Every penny the Com-
monwealth spends is “Federal extravagance,”
and every penny it doesn’t spend is “Federal
parsimony,” and its proposals to take over the
State debts are an “encroachment,” and its
failure to take them over when the States won’t
surrender them shows its “incapacity.” Now
both the Sydney morning papers have found a
new wrong and a fresh woe. One of their most
serious complaints against the Australian Govern-
ment has been that it hadn’t arranged to take
over the Northern Territory, and secure Aus-
tralia’s undefended back-door against invasion.
After much delay the Australian Government has
arranged to acquire the Territory, and the
Morning Herald and the Daily Telegraph,
acting their old part of the drunkards of Ephraim,
find in that a grievance also. The Telegraph
clamors against the ratification of the agreement,
because N.S.W. will have to pay its share of the
bill, just the same as all the other States. The
S.M. Herald brays for delay and serious con-
sideration, because part of the bargain is the com-
pletion of the half-finished transcontinental rail-
way which is to extend from Port Darwin to
Adelaide. It wants, first of all, a railway from
Port Darwin through Western Queensland to
Sydney, and, unless the Ma State gets earliest
consideration, it isapparently prepared to let Aus-
tralia’s worst danger—a danger which may yet
amount to utter ruin—continue indefinitely. It
admits that there is a terrible danger. It admits
also that South Australia, as the State which is
in possession of the Territory and is able to keep
it or hand it over as it pleases, is in a position to
make terms, and that the terms, which embody
the completion of the line to Adelaide in the first
place, are the best that the Commonwealth, after
years of haggling, has been able to secure. If
these terms are rejected, the whole weary squabble
must start afresh and may drag on for years, while
the Jap danger grows and a resuscitated China is
getting ready to make trouble, and while,
according to international usage, any foreign Power
has a right to seize the Territory for want of that
“effective occupation” which must follow formal
annexation. N.S.W. owned the Territory once,
and let it slide rather than face the expense of
governing it, and now the State which assumed
the burden is in a position to lay down condi-
tions. Its demand for the building of some 1100
miles of line to connect with Adelaide is at least
as moderate as the Herald’s demand for some
2000 miles of line to “ link up ” Port Darwin
with the Eastern railway system. And South
Australia bases its demand on the fact that it
gives 523,000 square miles of country in exchange •
the other demand is based on nothing but the
theory that everything should come to Sydney,
and that everything that doesn’t come to
Sydney is an outrage. Australia, with a huge
danger at its doors—a danger which amounts to
nothing less than the possible enslavement of its
people by a yellow race—has to be up and doing.
It can’t spend all its time considering how to
bring everything to Sydney. Unless it spreads
itself on the question of providing for the safety
of Australia, something quite unexpected may
come to Sydney—a foreign fleet and a bombard-
ment.
♦
Victorian Labor and Wren.
The Victorian elections would look a great deal
more promising for the local Labor party if it
stood, in public estimation, where it did a few
years ago. In the early days of Australian
Labor-in-politics its stronghold lay in its reputa-
tion for unflinching honesty. Even its worst and
most unscrupulous enemies, whatever they might
say, couldn’t manage to look as if they believed
their own words when they assailed it on the side
of its persona] integrity. It still retains that
reputation in N.S.W., and in every other State
save Victoria. In Victoria it is now spoken of
openly as a party many members of which have
sold themselves to the publicans, and to John
Wren, the law-breaker, the gambling shark, the
bloated plutocrat, the cheeky parasite and non-
producer, who lives on the poor, and fosters their
most disastrous vices for his own profit. This
time it isn’t merely the blatant enemies of the
party who whisper the tale; it is a matter of
common ’talk and common opinion. The
voices of the man in the street and the
bloke upon the highway even recklessly mention
the names of members who are popularly
alleged to receive salaries from Wren. No one
seems to know exactly whence the report comes,
but it is in the air, it is commonly accepted, and
it has quite ceased to arouse the scorn and in-
credulity that used to greet such charges. The
tremendous fight that many Labor members put
up last session in the Victorian Parliament in
defence of Beer and Gambling—such a fight as
they never put up before on any question, how-
ever great and urgent—created an impression,
which it will be very hard to get rid of, that cer-
tain members were sold, and that the buyers were
Bung and Wren —principally Wren. The great
boss gambler’s open patronage of the Labor party,
and its tolerance of that patronage, help on the
impression. The public judges by outward
appearances, especially when they are such re-
markable appearances as these, and in a moral
sense the stock of Labor has slumped in Victoria.
The cause is as good as ever, but it would
be well if it were represented at the com-
ing election by a number of new men in
place of those who stonewalled so blatantly
on behalf of the dilapidated little pub., and the
tote and pony-race parasite. Already the name
of Wren has done quite sufficient harm to the
Labor cause. The open and glaring friendship
between ex-Senator Dawson and the tote-person
did a great deal to drag down Dawson in public
estimation, and that falling away of Dawson led
to his not being recognised as a Labor candidate
for Queensland in 1906. And it was Dawson’s
subsequent appearance as an independent alleged
Labonte, and the votes he took from organised
Labor, and the moral effect of the split in the
Labor camp, which destroyed the chances of that
good democrat Higgs and his two fellow candi-
dates, and caused three retrograde Tories —
Sayers and Chataway and Sledger —to become
Queensland’s delegates in the Senate. And out
of that victory Queensland Toryism acquired a
confidence which may lead it to victory at the
State elections, and which may fasten the Philp
yoke afresh on the country’s neck. Exactly what
effect the Wren taint may have on the Victorian
State elections has yet to be seen, but it must do
harm —it is only a question of the amount of the
harm. And it is a sorry business that the name
of a party which once represented unflinching
political honesty should be bracketed in the popu-
lar mind with that of the worst gambling shark in
Australasia.
♦
A Stinking Fish Out West.
W. M. Parker, a member of one of Westralia’s
old and mouldy families, has broken out in .the
West Australian with a violent demand for
nigger and Chinese immigrants. Parker is a
Stinking Fish of the first odor, and smells poli-
tically like the fragrance that trails behind a
motor car. Here is the gist of Parker :
The population of Australia has not increased so
rapidly as it should have done during the last six
years, since the establishment of the “ White Aus-
tralia ” policy. . .If that insane measure of the
“White Australia” were removed, Australia would
then progress as it should do. .. . Australia is not
benefiting from her vast possessions, on account of
that repulsive policy, “White Australia,” which checks
progress. ... If it were not for that repelling policy, a
“White Australia,” this nation would have been more
extensively occupied, offering employment for millions
of people of all classes of enterprise. It is an unfortunate
thing when a nation has to be governed by a narrow-
minded Parliament, which is the ease with Australia at
the present time. Will the Federal Government ever see
the necessity of throwing open her ports to the world, as
the Mother Country has always done, which has ren-
dered her the most powerful nation under the sun ? No
man, either red, white, or black, was ever rejected from
the British shore. She never had such a narrow-minded
Government to check her progress, but she looked upon
all men as being God’s people, and treated them with a
proper Christian feeling. Let Australia do the same, and
she will also progress.
These are the words of Parker of the Stink-
ing Fish, and Parker is supposed to be a
man of education (though the ignorance he ex-
hibits would disgrace a school kid), and a con-
scientious gentleman (though his utter reckless-
ness of assertion is equal to that of a hired witness
in a Hindu law court). Parker’s first assertion
is that the White Australia policy prevents the
growth of population in Australia. Here are the
official figures as far as they go—and a more
scrupulous and truthful Parker would have
looked them up for himself before he spoke :
Increase of Population in tiie Commonwealth.
Before the White Under the White
Australia Policy. Australia Policy.
1896 .. .. 62,150 1901 .. .. 60,724
1897 .. .. 64,650 1902 (famine year) 56,798
1898 .. .. 46,210 1903 .. .. 44,085
1899 .. .. 49,020 1904 .. .. 57,7.64
1900 .. .. 56,020 1905 .. .. 68,098
Average .. 55,610 Average .. 57,492
These official figures accuse Parker straightly
of being a liar, so far as his implication goes
that under the White Australia policy
the growth of Australian population has
lessened. As regards his own State, he is
a specially glaring perverter; Westralia has
gained 60,669 people (15,167 per annum) in the


last four years, under the White Australia policy ;
in the previous ten years, when there was no
W bite Australia policy, and the gold fever was
at its height, and the old Gropers ran the whole
show, it gained 140,830 (14,083 per annum); in
the decade before that (1881 to 1891) it gained
23,267(2327 per annum); and away further back
it was practically stationary. As regards England,
Parker is a fraud, and a horrible exhibition
either of ignorance or of deception. To call a
country which twice expelled the Jews, which once
ox-dered the whole Irish race into exile in barren
Connaught, under pain of death, which has just
sent back forcibly a whole cargo of Russian
Hebrews, and stopped a consignment of Chinese
immigrants—to describe such a country as one
which never rejected any man “either red, white,
or black,” is a shameless manufacturing of bogus
evidence. And in his comparisons between Eng-
land and Australia, comparisons based on these
lies or bogus evidences, Parker is a Stinking
Fish —a man who is in such haste to malign,
slander, and throw mud at his own country, that
he would rather invent aspersions than have nb
aspersions at all. The Stinking Fish is a despic-
able object at all times, and the more influential
the Fish the higher he should be gibbetted as an
object of public scorn.
«
The Five Parties in the Reps.
When the Commonwealth Parliament opened
last week, contrary to the expectations of many,
Greid was found at the head of his battered
remnant, posing as leader of the Opposition. It
was not the aggressive Greid of the olden time,
but a very crushed personage, who spoke in a
plaintive key, and admitted, among other things,
that the verdict of the country was distinctly in
favor of Protection. If he made any remarks
about the verdict being violently Anti-Sosh, they
were not reported. When Greid started out to
fight “the battle of my life ” at the last elections,
it was announced that he had thrown the fiscal
garment overboard, and was in the field in the
cause of constitutional government and Anti-
Sosh. The three-party system was a curse
—an “ un-British ” horror that was sapping
the roots of representative institutions. The fact
that there are at least five parties in the House of
Commons while he spoke did not matter, and the
picture of the Conservatives, the Liberals, the
Labor party, the Independent Labor party, the
Radical party, and the Irish contingent, all chop-
ping and changing about anyhow in Westminster
did not reconcile his soul to the spectacle of three
parties in the Australian House of Reps. Last
week when he stood up to address the House,
Greid looked on the appalling spectacle of some-
thing like three parties in the Opposition, let
alone in the House. His campaign had been a
ghastly failure, and the country had turned
on him in his old age with a vengeance.
He went out to sink the fiscal issue and
reduce the parties in the whole chamber to
two, and came back to find that the country
had disregarded his advice on the fiscal issue,
returning a majority of Protectionists, while his
own party had rejected his advice and split into
three. He saw his old N.S.W. “rump” sitting
faithfully behind him ; he saw another Victorian
crowd sitting behind W. H. Irvine ; and yet
another small gang of the original Greid party
sitting behind Dr. Quick. Under these adverse
circumstances, he did not venture to attack the
Government, and neither did W. H. Irvine or
Dr. Quick. For any one of them to have done
so would have precipitated the wild-cat struggle
for the leadership of the Opposition, which
each is anxious just now to avoid. Each wants
more time for underground engineering, or some-
thing. It is said that Greid's policy is to wear
the other side out. The present position reduces
the Opposition to helplessness, and Greid trusts
that when the party, as a whole, gets sick of that
helplessness it will boot the pretentious upstarts
who have tried to usurp his position once more
into the rank Snd file. Irvine’s contention
is, on the other hand, that, the old fiscal issue
being practically dead, and a Protectionist
majority existing in the House, the time has
arrived" (good old phrase) to form a new
party, under a new leader, to deal with the new
conditions that have come into being. Greid and
Freetrade are inseparable. Freetrade is dead,
and as Greid is chained to the corpse he ought to
be buried with it, and W. H. Irvine, ex-tutor and
ex-constitution breaker, is the man to lead the new
party in the new House under the new conditions.
And he fondly hopes that as time goes on the
Opposition will as a whole recongise this “fact,”
and bury Greid accordingly. Altogether, it is a
humorous spectacle, although Greid cannot be
expected to see anything funny in it.
4.
The Disappearing Insurance Bonus.
Apart from their industrial business, Australian
life insurance offices have about 460,000 policies
in force, including Australian policies issued by
American companies. In no other class of
finance are so many people interested. And,
generally speaking, the success of a life insurance
office is in proportion to its bonuses, which are
derived very largely from the excess of interest
earned over what it was reckoned would be
earned when the premiums were calculated. The
quinquennial report of the Widows’ Fund was
issued the other day; it showed that £130,291
was available for bonuses, equal to something
over one-sixth of all premiums paid in the five
years. If, however, the same interest had
been earned lately as was earned 15 years
ago, the surplus for division would have
been £170,000 more. Fifteen years ago,
84J per cent, of the accumulated funds in this
society was earning 5 per cent, interest; in 1901
only 38 per cent, was earning that much. In the
latter year Federation arrived, and was followed
by some sort of a Protective tariff. It isn’t much
of a tariff, because G. Reid and others whittled
away Kingston’s patriotic proposals; yet, even
under that tariff, the proportion of the funds
earning 5 per cent, or more increased from 38 per
cent, to 43 per cent, of the whole. The demand
for money in Australia, which was becoming less
and less, took a slight change for the better; if
the tariff had been made strong enough, and the
change had brought conditions back to those
which prevailed in 1891, the Widows’ Fund
bonuses could have been more doubled.
MoPey is still deplorably dear in Australia, in
the sense that, if it is put into industries
or farms, the profits are still, on the
whole, deplorably low ; in another sense
money is deplorably cheap—only 43 per cent,
of this society’s funds is earning 5 per cent.
It is deplorably cheap because, for one thing,
there is very little local competition for it; in-
stead of Australia having its own factories to
finance, it buys the products of foreign factories ;
and instead of having 20 prosperous farmers to
finance, it has one squatter or a miserable group
of rack-rented tenarnt farmers, whose outlook is
too hopeless to justify any financing. Alter these
things, establish the factories through High Pro-
tection, and the prosperous farmers through a
graduated land-tax that would unlock the land to
them, and such a legitimate demand for money
would be created as Australia has not yet known.
Immediately that demand is created tens of thou-
sands will benefit who have never suspected
that Protection or a land-tax could put
anything into their pockets. For a start,
practically every one of the owners of those
460,000 Australian life insurance policies will find
his bonuses increasing ; that is to say, the cost of
his insurance will diminish, and the Australian’s
capacity for making provision for hjs dependents
will become greater. And it won’t be a case of
taking with one hand and giving with the other ;
for the demand which will put the money into
his pocket will be new—he will simply be getting
the profit that the foreigner gets now, or taking
in extra interest a fraction of the money that is
wasted nowadays in dragging the farmer’s harvest
across the earth.
The Federal Parliament.
The third Australian Parliament opened aus-
piciously. It was made as plain as possible that,
in the work of tariff reform, the Government will
have the support of the great majority of the
House of Representatives, and that the G. Reid
section of the Opposition, cowed into submission,
will refrain from any factious obstruction. After
a battle of six years’ duration, the cause of Aus-
tralian Protection is secured ; the admission was
grudgingly made by Reid himself, whilst King-
ston, the great old champion of the cause, who
lost his health in its service, sat by and listened,
a pallid shadow of his old robust person-
ality. According to the Government pro-
gramme as announced, the time elapsing between
this date and the summoning of Parliament for
business will be spent in drawing up a complete
scheme of tariff revision. This is to be followed
by the appointment of a permanent Tariff Com-
mission, whose task it will be to watch the tariff
at work, and from time to time suggest the recti-
fication of any anomalies that come to light, and
also to report on any instances where, in an im-
partial opinion, a duty should be raised or
lowered. With this, the tariff issue will pass out
of politics, and the way be cleared for the next
great battle —that against Land Monopoly. Aside
from the tariff issue, there was little of serious
moment discussed at the opening of Parliament.
G. Reid, quite characteristically, waved the
“bloody shirt,” and for a while the House
seethed with indignation as he re-told the sectarian
lies which formed the basis of the “Anti-Bosh”
party. For a while a stormy debate on the
Flames of Smithfield and the Battle of the Boyne,
and other strictly foreign matters, seemed certain.
But a long and dull speech by the Prime Minister
intervened, and a wise Assembly decided on
reflection to answer G. Reid with contempt
instead of with indignation. His degrading
speech was treated with the cool scorn which a
wise Judge gives to the shrieks of a harridan in
the dock before him. Nothing could have been
more effective than this absolute ignoring of the
attempt to arouse sectarian fury. The House
heard, affected not to hear, and passed on. With
the failure of his sectarian cry, G. Reid’s hope of
getting any advantage out of the debate passed
away. He and his disgruntled following left
the ” House, and the Address-in-Reply debate
collapsed.
Victoria and the Bible-bangers.
Fkom “Dingo”:—
It is now fairly certain that the next Victorian elec-
tions, which take place on March 15, will be largely
fought under the baleful banner of Inseetarianism.
The “ Bible in State schools ” is the topic of conten-
tion. Premier Bent was recently interviewed on this
question by representatives of every mischief-raising
sect and society in the community, and was not man
enough to say what he thought of their “ Christian-
like" objects and methods. After the result of the
last referendum, which—according to the rules of
arithmetic and the opinions of every decent paper and
politician in the State —was a “count-out” for the
campaigners, he dared not grant another without refer-
ence to Parliament ; and, about two years ago, Parlia-
ment defeated, by 44 votes to 6, a motion in favor of
the pestiferous idea. The deputationists received the
unsatisfying assurance that, in about 18 months’ time,
Bent would introduce a Bill to provide for a further
referendum. Bent thus tried to gull both sides by
an affected impartiality, which reposed very ungrace-
fully on his 20st. It wasn’t his business to be impar-
tial ; he should have stood up for the Education Act,
which, for the past 33 years, despite its defects, has
worked with splendid results, and is endorsed by every
fair-minded sinner in the State.
We are promised, however, that during election time
thirty or more lecturers (honorary, don’t forget!) will
raise their dreary voices and clasp their clammy hands in
execration of the present “ godless” system. The secu-
rity of Protestantism—which, somehow, requires a lot of
care and defence in these unholy times—will be made out
as dependent on their efforts, and the poor old Scarlet
Woman will be again dragged into the arena, and shown
as the “ awful influence ” they are fighting against. What
they really want, only Providence knows ; and no satisfac-
tory information is forthcoming from that quarter. The
State has already humored their whimsicalities, to a
hardly warranted extent, by setting apart, in its schools,
one hour a week wherein any zealous parson may impart
to his budding flock the instruction that will make them
holy. But the parson, having Electors’ Committees to
attend to, and refractory nuns to keep in order, is too
tired to do this. He wants his work—for what is his
work, if not to give religious instruction ?—to be done by
the State school teacher, no matter what the teacher’s
own belief may be. The proposed conscience-clause to
safeguard the rights of the teacher is not worthy of con-
sideration. If the teacher got in the way of the Scripture
League, he might find it inconvenient. And if he were
a humorist, who did not believe in the Bible, but agreed
to give the instruction, the results to the Bible would be
interesting. . . ,
Now, for a mixed, democratic community such as ours,
nothing fairer could be desired than the present system
of education, which is free, compulsory, and— secular.
The quality of education imparted under it is admitted
to be of the very best. But the Catholics have a prefer-
ence for the more complete control of their children, and
have shown their belief in the value of religious instruc-
tion, by building and maintaining private schools,
the attendance at which averages about 27,000. That is
to say, the Catholics teach the bulk of their own children
at their own expense, and yet pay their share of the cost
of the State’s secular schools. The encroaching Scrip-
ture Leaguers want them, while supporting their own
schools, to be made to pay for the support of a State
school system which isn’t secular, but sectarian of the
Protestant brand. If they gain their windy way, the
Catholics wijl be virtually penalised, and will
have a perfectly equitable claim to a separate
grant from the funds of the State. Then the whole
principle of secular training will surely break down, and
Denominationalism —the curse of any country where the
parson is allowed a big say in politics—will take its
place. It can hardly be conceived that the proposed
lessons would find the smallest favor with Catholics,
even if they were of a character sufficiently colorless to
be acceptable to all the Protestant sects—a most im-
probable contingency. And if a separate grant were
made to the Catholic party, to counterbalance the hand-
ing over of the State schools to the Protestants, good-bye
to all hopes for a peaceful and educationally progressive
Victoria. Every tinpot sect, that hates sin and the other
sects, would be shrieking for the State to help its freaks
of schooling policy.
The cry that “ the Protestant religion is in danger,”
and that “Liberty must be preserved,” is contemptible.
Protestantism must be weak, if the fact of large numbers
being against the introduction of Scripture lessons, as
part of the ordinary school curriculum, taught in school
hours by the servants of the State, is going to rob its
tender frame of the breath of life. And the main fact,
and the all-important fact, is that those who don’t like
the proposed nuisance pay in taxes as much per capita
as those who want the State to do their work.
The above has been let loose with the object of induc-
ing a heavy vote against the idea of handing the schools
of Victoria over to a few lazy and mischievous parsons,
who have failed to do their own work of instructing the
young generation in holy ways, and now want the State
to do it for them.
♦
The Queensland Sugar Toiler.
Pkime Minister Deakin has got to the end of a
long struggle with the Queensland sugar-farming
crowd, which wanted to import European laborers
at sweating rates. Up to a year or so ago the
North Queensland planters declared that, if the
Kanakas were deported, the whole industry would
go down into the pit of insolvency, because no
white man could stand the work and the climate.
Then the nigger commenced to leave in large
quantities, and the planter was forced to employ
white men, and they did stand the work and the
climate. Then the planter person screamed to
the effect that Australian white labor was
not plentiful enough (which might be true),
and was not skilled enough (which wasn’t true).
Labor, he said, would have to be imported,
and Deakin was written to by the Pioneer River
Association, which asked for permission to bring
a crowd of Europeans. Naturally he asked
questions : How many ? Where from ? What
wages? After five months of shuffling and cor-
respondence, the Association’s proposal was
boiled down to 500 men, from wherever
they could be got, at wages of 20s. a week
in the slack season, and 255. a week in har-
vest time. The minimum rates of pay in the dis-
trict were 255. a week in the slack season, while the
piecework rate in harvest time amounted to con-
siderably over 255. The planters wanted to make a
bit on the wages, and, at the same time, they
inserted a clause in the contract which provided
for the deduction of the laborer’s passage-money
from his wages. Deakin complained that these
terms were unfair, when placed alongside the
wages of Australian laborers. And at last a
compromise was agreed on, and the slack-time
rates were fixed at 225. 6d. a week. Permission
was granted to import 500 laborers. Then the
Mossman Central Mill Co. applied to be allowed
to bring in 50 Italians at 255. for slack time, and
piece-work rates for harvest. This application
was granted, despite protests from the Queensland
Labor people. A third application from the con-
ference of North Queensland farmers was re-
ceived. They also wanted to pay 20s. in the dull
season, and the same old argument started again.
Einally everything was fixed up. The farmers
agree to pay much better wages than they wanted
to, and Prime Minister Deakin allows the impor-
tation of a good deal more labor than some people
up North consider necessary. In all cases the
applicants were adjured by Deakin to try to get
Britishers, and if that were not possible, then the
immigrants must be Italian, Austrian, Hun-
garian, French, German, Spanish, Portuguese,
or Scandinavian. Altogether 1050 men are to be
brought from overseas this year ; but the planters
estimate that they will want more the following
year. The whole business is rather fishy, espe-
cially when it is known that Thomas Hughes, of
the C.S.R. Co., was the principal negotiator on
behalf of the planters. Anything in which the
C.S.R. Co. is concerned deserves to be looked at
twice through a microscope, and smelt at on both
sides and round the edges.
<
Of Interest to Women and Baldheads.
The Customs regulations regarding spirit of
wine, which came into force on January 1, seem
to have dealt local manufacturers of toilette
preparations a knock-out blow. They are thereby
prohibited from using undutied methylated spirit,
and are compelled to operate with the rectified
article, which carries a duty amounting to 19s. fid.
per liquid gallon. They are, however, permitted
to manufacture in bond, and, by so doing, obtain
a reduction of duty to 10s. per gallon. But the
permission is straightway nullified by the pro-
viso that essential oils used in toilet preparations
shall be “distilled within the Commonwealth.”
No essential oils are distilled within the Com-
monwealth. The proviso prevents manufactur-
ing in bond. This means closing up the makers
of hair restorers. &c., to whose preparations a
large quantity of high-grade spirit is essential.
They seem to be specially singled out for
extinction by the new Customs law, for, whereas
varnish-makers are allowed to use undutied
methylated spirit, and the same may be con-
sumed in motor-car lamps, the toilette requisite
man is scared off by a horrifying penalty
of £lOO. Then, again, only fid. per gallon duty is
enforced on spirit used to fortify wine ; although
the toilette article for rubbingoutside the skin may
be very excellent, and the liquid for pouring under
the skin very inferior. Also, the spirit used for
making liniments is duty free; and although a
hair restorer or “bay rum” comes within the
dictionary definition of liniment, the Customs
officials reject that authority and employ a defini-
tion of their own for revenue purposes. So the
artist who beautifies humanity by making two
blades of hair grow where none grew before is
given to understand that he can have no abiding
place in Australia. On the other hand, this
prohibition of local manufacture enriches the
foreign importer, whose hair restorers, etc., can
be retailed at from 10 per cent, to 50 per cent, less
than the duty sought to be wrung from the local
maker on his harmless necessary spirit. Nothing
remains for him but to leave the country and join
the ranks of protected exporters to Australia.
*.
Fooling the Law.
The Victorian Law has strengthened its reputa-
tion for defeating its own ends by strictly legal
means. The latest and most Judkinsesque of
“moral reform” enactments in Bent’s State
were not warranted to wear. They were passed
only that they might be upset on appeal, and the
recent jubilations of the noisy reformers were
soon discovered to have been "premature. Last
week Justice Hood gave his reserved judgment
in the case of the Crown v. a suburban hotel-
keeper. Bung had been convicted, under the
amended Licensing Act, of an offence in permit-
ting a man to assemble on his premises during a
Sunday afternoon. The defendant appealed on
the ground that Bent’s Act was not drafted in
accordance with its supposed intentions. The
Act in its haste quite forgot to mention specifi-
cally that liquor must not be sold on hotel pre-
mises between C a.m. and 11.30 p.m. on Sundays.
Consequently the customers who arrive as
“travellers” to a pub on the Sawbath are as
much entitled to buy refreshment as they were in
the unregenerate days prior to the advent of
Judkins, if not more so. The new Law is a
laughing-stock, and the men who profess to have
walked two miles for their lawful Sunday beer
may still drink the landlord’s health without im-
perilling his license, or exposing themselves to
the risk of being summoned to court next
day. By a strange coincidence the flaw in
Bent’s Licensing Act was judicially announced
on the same day that a bench of magistrates
dismissed the first prosecution of a Victorian
shopkeeper under the Juvenile Smokers Act.
This generally approved Health Act makes it an
offence for a greedy trader to sell cigarettes to a
boy. A boy is to be regarded as such until he is
16 years of age, or until he looks a little older.
At any rate, the supplying of cigarettes to a 14-
year-old boy is an obvious breakage of the law
within the common-sense interpretation of it.
But when a man was charged with this indiscre-
tion, and the boy had stated in the witness-b x
that he was only 14, the defendant’s counsel
objected that there could be no proof of the boy’s
age without the production of his birth certificate
and a parental identification of the boy with the
certificate. The law can convict a boy who breaks
any other law without getting his father to
identify him ; yet the magistrates, in upholding
the objection, practically decided that the difficulty
of getting a conviction under the Juvenile
Smokers Act will be more than the case is worth.
For all purposes of age estimate, as regards grow-
ing lads, the opinion of the Bench should suffice.
»
The Smash Up of Arbitration.
Interpreted by Judges who don’t disguise their
dislike of it, the N.S.W. Arbitration Act has been
so shorn of the powers it was supposed to hold
that to-day it is almost useless. The intention of
those who promoted it was to abolish strikes, and
in a general way they believed they had provided
the machinery to do it. But, though the first
president of the court made a sympathetic attempt
to carry out that intention, both the Full Court
and the High Court more than counteracted
Justice Cohen’s good service to the country by
giving the Act a narrow and cramped interpreta-
tion. Going upon the assumption that “the
liberty of the subject ” had above all things to be
protected, the courts sought, not for reasons why
strikes should be abolished, but for reasons why
“the liberty of the subject” should not be
interfered with; and, of course, they found
them. At the first stroke they cut out the unions,
by deciding that the parties in a case must be the
actual employees and employers between whom
trouble had arisen ; and a union, whose members
were seething with discontent, could not get a
general order covering its whole industry. In
Maoriland this general award, obtained by a
union acting for the whole body of workers in a
trade, has been the most powerful means of pre-
venting strikes and keeping the industrial machine
going smoothly. On the first N.S.W. decision
naturally followed another, which practically
abolished the grossly misunderstood and mis-
represented claim for preference to unionists.
More rubbish has been written and talked about
this “preference to unionists” than about any-
thing else in connection with arbitration. It has
been said that the unionists wanted to deny
conscientious non-unionists the right to live. Some
of the Judges evidently believed that nonsense,
too. Yet the position is plain. To prevent strikes
there must be some power to enforce awards.
The only practical way is to group men into con-
tracting unions ; and their contributions to these
unions are then merely contributions to a fund
guaranteeing that whatever award is made will
be obeyed. To give preference to unionists is
therefore simply to give preference to men who
have entered into a bond to obey the court, and
so give the employer security. And that is, above
all things, what the employer wants—he wants
to know beforehand what he has to pay, and then
he can make his arrangements accordingly.
Judges, however, apparently obsessed with ideas
about the liberty of the subject—which involves
the liberty to strike and do violence to the well-
being of the whole community—saw some grave
peril in preference to unionists, even with the
safeguarding proviso that the unionist was only to
have preference when he was as good a workman
as a non-unionist. So that provision was practi-
cally ruled out. Then the Full Court carried the
first decision mentioned above still further,
and again whittled down the power of the union.
Now, finally (a number of smaller decisions, all
destructive of the Act, have to be passed over),
comes the decision that, though the court may
make an award between an employer and his own
employees, the effect of the award can be utterly
defeated by the simple process of employer ar.d
employee making a special contract. In the par-
ticular case that came before the Full Court, a
minimum of 10s. per day had been awarded to car-
penters; thereupon the employer contracted with
certain of the employees to provide the labor for
certain work at a price which, it is alleged,
panned out at 7s. per day. And this about
finishes.it. It is a sorrowful conclusion to have
to come to, but it seems to be the fact that if any
greedy, small-minded, cunning employer, anxious
to steal an advantage over a competitor, can find
any hole in the Act to crawl through, he will also
find a Judge waiting on the other side of the
hole to give the crawler a blessing. Presently,
when the Act is all holes, it will be tossed
aside in disgust; for employees, decent em-
ployers, and the public wanted a shield, not a
colander or a nutmeg-grater. And what then?
Have those who have destroyed the Act any
alternative to offer? Any alternative, that is,
except strikes? For, of course, industrial disputes
are certain, and in Australia’s present state
of rapid ups and downs they are far more likely 1
than when things are moving along under average 1
conditions. Industrial arbitration may be im-
practicable ; if it is, the discovery is something
serious enough to go into mourning over. If
arbitration is a failure it isn’t a disease that is
killed ; it is an attempted cure ; and the man who
would dance on its coffin would shout “ Hooray !”
on the break-down of a cure for any other disease.
■*
Vic. Premier Bent has committed the mega,
therium blunder of his career in retaining the
awful Saciise as Minister of Education in his
reconstructed Cabinet. Sachse is more than in-
competent ; he has elevated stupidity into a
fine art and raised maladministration to the pomp
and dignity of a science, as instanced by his pur-
chase of imported sewing machines and pianos.
Creeds,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In creeds that live to-day
No room to breathe have I;
The church across the way
Shuts out from me the sky.
Religion, like a hen
With chicks, sits close and square,
And shuts the souls of men
From sunlight and free air.
The best of all the creeds
To which Man blindly clings,
A host of vermin breeds
Beneath her cloistral wings.
CHEBVE ROE.


It usually takes years to get a new invention on
the market, but the Tyree Spray has proved an exception
to the rule. Although this machine has only been three
months before the public, already over fourteen hundred
have been sold, and they are still selling rapidly. All
the Government Departments in Sydney, and the prin-
cipal business houses are now using them.
The Tyree Spray is pronounced by all experts to be one
of the most important inventions ever introduced to
public notice. It is being sold largely for ,
Spraying dairy cattle for tick.
Spraying sheep for fly-blow or maggot.
Spraying fruit trees, vines, potatoes and other vegeta-
tion with insecticides.
Spraying hospitals, gaols, asylums, schools and other
buildings with disinfectants.
Painting and white-washing dairies, butter factories,
creameries, piggeries, abattoirs, slaughter houses, poultry
yards, schools, factories, wool sheds, stock yards,
barracks, etc.
Killing prickly pear, gorse,' lantana, briars, black-
berries, with arsenic. ■
Painting green skins for export with arsenite of soda.
Fire extinguishing and cutting out fire breaks as a
prevention of bush fires.
It works without labor, and does the work well. Send
for printed matter to W. TYREE, 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
He was asked to retire a year ago and pomt-
oiank refused. Parliament passed what amounted
Y,° te c . en ? ure on him over the pianos, and
tne Ministerialists themselves openly announced
that, but for the fact that they didn’t
wish to shift Bent, they would have cen-
sured the Government directly. Still he stuck
to his seat. Now, the new Ministers, Peacock,
MACKINNON and Boyd, demand that Sachse
shall go back into the obscurity to which he
belongs, but Sachse hangs on where he knows he
isn t wanted like a 40-horse power limpet, and,
strangely enough, Bent backs him up. Probably
Cabinet pressure will force Thomas to fire him
out before Parliament meets. Anyhow, the new
Ministry is only a stop-gap affair at best. Neither
Mackinnon nor Peacock is very enthusiastic over
the combination, and before another year there
will probably be another reconstruction, or a
split which will once more divide the House into
three parties.
The trouble with the Melbourne telephone girls,
whose tender consciences will not allow them to
work on the Sunday, came to a head on Feb.
lbth, when the 11 attendants who didn’t have
enough conscience to send them picnicking on
Sundays told Secretary Scott that, as they had
been working; steadily for months with only one
Sunday off in every five weeks, they were in
danger of breaking down, and he would have to
make arrangements of some sort, or there would
be no Sunday telephones. Scott rose to the
occasion, and ukased, under sec. 66 of the Postal
Act, that Sunday was henceforth to be an “ occa-
smn of necessity,” and that all telephone employees
would have to work in turn, conscience or
no conscience. Also he notified that no
employee would be required to work more
than six days m one week, and that all Sunday
k® P a id for at the rate of time-and-a-
-j - 1® was suc h an eminently fair solution
ot the difficulty that there was no trouble the
ensuing Sunday ; but, during the week following
two or three extra-sensitive damsels succumbed
to a renewed attack of conscience, and stated
that on no account could they bring themselves
to perform any toil on the Day of Rest in future.
Secretary Scott is now considering their cases,
and will probably conclude that they are not cut
out for telephone attendants—that they were de-
?i? n -i * r ® ome a job that only runs on
the last six days of the week. Also, if he is in a
playful mood, he may probably ask them who
washes up on Sundays at their places, and whether
meals go unprepared and beds unmade.
4
Thomas Treloar, of Melbourne, now awaiting
the tender mercies of Bent’s hangman, is another
of the problems of civilisation. He had been, for
some time, the lover of Mrs. Patterson’s grand-
daughter, accepted by the damsel, but rejected
by her parents. _ One night he attempted to
anticipate the privileges of a husband, and was
promptly ordered away, whereupon he said
he d do some damage before he went. He
chose a handy poker to do it with, and
smote all and sundry—the girl, her aunt, her aged
grandmother, and the furniture. The old lady
succumbed hence Treloar’s present predica-
ment. Medical officers could find no present
signs of insanity in accused; yet his father’s
father was admittedly for some time in a Maori-
land_ asylum ; one of his sisters was similarly con-
hned in Victoria ; and he himself was an habitu-
ally idle, boozing, and generally ill-balanced
degenerate. So the jury said “Guilty,” and,
with a recommendation to mercy, passed
the problem on to others. There isn’t the
shadow of a doubt that Thomas Treloar
should _ never have the opportunity to repro-
duce himself (it is hard lines on Thomas that
the race didn’t stop with Thomas’s grand-
father) ; but whether the hangman ought to end
the race now is another matter. But surely there
should also be some inquiry about a girl who was
willing to be the wife of a beery leaner-up against
things of the hopeless Treloar class.
Australian law seems wonderfully tender
towards the out-sizes and scrag-ends of the
alleged medical profession. The same week that
the consumption-cure man was enthusiastically
acquitted in Sydney, some Melbourne beaks
ordered a poor, weak-looking, tired-looking
typewriter girl to pay £5 ss. and costs for
‘medical vibration.” The plaintiff-female said
she wasn’t medically qualified, but could vibrate
all right. The girl-defendant said that the basis
of the arrangement was “no cure, no pay,” and
that the vibration left her as ill as she was before
And she certainly looked as ill as she was before'
unless her previous condition had been alarming!
It was_ an evenly-balanced case—one swear on
each side—the kind of case which must go
according to the Bench’s sympathies. And the
Bench s sympathies were with the big, robustious
vibrator.”
—'♦“
Ihe State Frights party, which spends its time
gibbering about “Federal encroachment,” is
dreadfully careful about the poor widow when
there’s a land-tax mentioned, but it is mighty
careless about her at other times. Under
“State rights ” a co., working in N.S. Wales but
registered in Victoria, is so much of a foreign co.
that if a Sydney man dies, leaving his widow
shares in it, the widow has to get two lots of pro-
bate and pay two lots of duty. N.S. Wales says
it is glad when “foreign capital ” is introduced to
develop our great natural resources; ” yet it
penalises a Sydney person who has anything to
do with the co. that does the developing. Lately
a small man died in N.S. Wales leaving a widow
and a large family and Broken Hill (N.S W )
shares worth less than £2400. Then this hap-
pened to the widow and the large family
2°?iw£w ba i e i N ‘ S - W - £l2 12 0
Paid N.S.W. duty 24 0 0
Cost of re-sealing probate in Victoria 10 10 0
Paid Victorian duty 72 0 0
Tofcal .. ..£ll9 2 0
So “State rights” and the dread of “Federal
encroachment” cost the widow and the large
family an unnecessary £B2 10s. out of their poor
little provision of £2363 Bs. net. If Australia
really were Australia, and not in a heap of things,
separate States where little insects buzz and one-
eyed toads puff themselves up, the small widow’s
cupboard would have another year’s tucker
in it. The loss of a year’s tucker seems a good
price to pay for the privilege of listening to the
buzz of Carruthers.
# _
Big Benjamin Rounsevell, the rejected member
for Burra (S.A.), did considerable of a recent wail
at Adelaide over the White Australia policy. It-
seems that Benjamin the Large is interested in a
Northern Territory syndicate, and the syndicate
had nearly sold out at a big profit to an English
co. But the co. found out in time that it wouldn’t
be allowed to import colored labor into the Terri-
tory to work the property, and so it didn’t buy
and Benjamin the Heavy is out a good deal of
money. And by a quaint perversion of things,
Benjamin the Tremendous professes to regard
this as evidence against the White Australia
policy. It is nothing of the sort; rather it is evi-
dence that a lie sometimes comes justly home to
roost. A lot of bloated syndicators have told
-Bum. over and over again the foolish fiction
tnat white men can’t work in the Territory. It
is pure fiction, but people like Benjamin the
stupendous have persuaded Bull that it is true.
-Therefore, when he finds out that he can’t get
colored labor, he won’t buy the property of Ben-
jamin s friends, and Benjamin’s friends, by
reason of their own silly fabrication, lose money,
it seems to serve them jolly well right.
The interminable Crick-Willis case has gone off
at another tangent. It is now three months since
the famous jury—including Brown, the man who
is alleged to have said his mind was made up in
wI^ C u~ d i Sa^ e 5 d - KS - W - Attorney-General
ADE has decided to proceed no further on that
case which was brought to inevitable failure
through Brown, and has dropped the matter, so
it is difficult to see that there is anything of im-
portance left for him to do. This enthusiastic
and needless throwing up of the sponge is one
reason why people now speak of him as Wade in
the Balance and Found Wanting. But a show
ot new activity has been made by applying
for a rule to call on Brown to show
cause why he shouldn’t be committed for
derision of court, or something like that, in
making up his mind in advance. This switches
the case off on to a by-way. It isn’t an inquiry
as to Brown s reasons for making up his mind in
advance, but simply a proposal to ask Brown if
he thinks he did the square thing. Brown is
such a small side issue in the case that it would
be a quaint business if he fell in while everybody
else drifted away.. It took Wade a long, long
tune to make up his mind to proceed no further
in the case that fell through. Everything has
taken a long, long time in these remarkable pro-
ceedings. Public opinion has grown weary of the
slow pursuit of the subject, and public interest
has died a natural death through old age, and a
great, weary sloth steadily qualifies the problem
for at last dropping its old bones down through a
crack and being forgotton. The Carrutiiers
Government has only overlooked one thing. The
public may be dead-tired of the whole Lands
scandal business, but it may be a great deal more
tired of the Government which made it so tired.
Joe will have to cry out very bitterly about the
-c ederal capital next election if he wants to divert
attention.
♦
The N.S.W; Worker often sees further than the
end of its nose, but sometimes it: doesn’t dare to
say what it does see. T’other day it printed a
heading article on “Johnny, Get Your Gun.”
I here were words of wisdom on Australia’s isola-
tion and undefended coast line ; on the bursting-
up of big estates by a graduated land-tax; on the
need of factories for manufacturing arms and
ammunition; on the need of shipbuilding yards
and docks ; and then, remarking that heaps of
money would be required, it stopped dead. As
for a tariff that would make for the building of
factories and docks, and, incidentally, supply the
men and money to work them—well, it might
have been a “scab” or some other un-
speakable thing, judging by the severity
with which it was left alone. In that
respect the Worker is only a reflex of the
Labor party ; but the fact that there are two
of them—a paper and a party—to pull up in the
same bog doesn’t improve the bog. They both
tell Johnny to get a gun, and then provide no
way for Johnny to get it save by borrowing it.
And the danger of that arrangement is that-
when Johnny has need to use it, the man wh Q
has a mortgage over it may want to have a say as
to how Johnny shall use it. Moreover there
isnt enough Johnny, and this insufficiency is
likely to last till more work is provided.
Some extraordinary self-revelations re-
sulted from the disputation in Melbourne dailies
re the necessity of bathers in St. Kilda baths
wearing an adequate garment. One curious
father wrote to say that he could not take his
young sons for a swim, because they would be
contaminated by the spectacle of men in the alto-
gether. It would be interesting to know what
kind of hot-house curiosities this man expects his
sons to be. The Age supported the clamorers for
wet dressed men in baths that are used exclusively
by men, with a leader of such lamentable Peck-
sniffism that it might have been written by Jud-
kins in collaboration with an elderly spinster who
believed in the damnation of unbaptised infants.
Meanwhile, the existing system works well
enough, and the man who cannot go swimming
with his fellows quite unconcerned about super-
fluous garments has his wash alone at night in the
solitude of his own bath-room, after carefully
putting out the candle.
A Maoriland policeman recently got a
dose of the Jaw that made him feel very sick
indeed. While stationed at Auckland he fell into
trouble with his superior officers, and the depart-
ment reckoned that the best way out of the diffi-
culty was to give him a long shift. So he was
transferred to Wellington. To be transferred
from Auckland to Wellington is about the worst
misfortune that can fall on a Maorilander. It’s
like being transferred from Elysium to the door-
step of Sheol. But at New Plymouth he was
arrested under a warrant charging him with neg-
lecting to provide for his unborn illegitimate
child, and taken back to Auckland to answer the
charge. This lavv which struck him was passed
by a humane legislature to prevent prospective
fathers leaving the State without making proper
provision for their children yet to come, but the
cop wasn’t leaving the State, he was only being
transferred to another district. Then when he
came back to Auckland his superiors wanted to
know why he hadn’t gone to Wellington as
ordered, and in about two minutes they made him
a sacked policeman. Still, he escaped being
transferred to Wellington, and that is something.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Robin Hood.”
Theatre Royal. “ The Breaking of the Drought.”
Tivoli •.. Rickards’ Co.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The New Clown.”
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
♦
By night, at Her Majesty’s, this week,
Miss Tittell Brune has been bidding Sydney
good-bye in “ Sunday,” the modest little play in
which she “arrived”; and, by day, preparations
have been made for Julius Superbus’s appearance
in “ Robin Hood.” The picturesque Ned Kelly
of Sherwood Forest will be saved from hanging
for the first time on Saturday night. The public
appetite seems to be keen for filibusters just now,
and a special Providence has provided in Robin
Hood a filibuster whom Julius Knight can play
without damaging the romance that clings around
that magnificent darling of the goddesses.
** # *
“The Breaking of the Drought” still
pours on the just and the unjust at Sydney
Royal, and the announcement that the Blandolt
season has entered its last weeks is causing a
huge rush at the booking office. This may be the
last chance in many a long year that thousands of
Sydneyites will have to see a genuine bush fire,
and it will certainly be the last time that the
same audience will have the opportunity of see-
ing Blandolt himself doing the flying jump
over the horse’s tail. Bland is not as
young as he used to be, and gets less
young every day, so the people roll up to see
Bland jump while he can. Exactly why thfl
upheaval was called “The Breaking of the
Drought ” is not very plain, for the drought that
plays a leading part in the drama is that which is
broken by champagne, and which cries out for
beer. A. minor drought is that created in the audi-
ence by the sight of the Cavill family plunging into
cool green waves at Little Coogee. The mass of
humanity didn’t know that Little Coogee was such
a lovely place till they saw it represented on the
Royal stage, and it is said that quite a rush has
set in for the locality. Writer did not participate
in it. Like Mahomet at Damascus, he preferred
to admire it from a distance. The place may be
very nice, but it is certainly not as lovely as
Brunton’s scenery makes it, nor do the girls
one is likely to meet there wear such
dream-like dresses as do Harrie Ireland and
her Hurricane Club push of strawberry beauties.
By the way, what’s wrong with N.S.W. Tourist
Department subsidising Blandolt to advertise our
beauty spots, by having his plays located around
Jenolan Caves and so forth ? Then the leading stars
could mention in their dialogues particulars as to
the cost of getting there, and say something about
the prices of accommodation. It would not be
very interesting dialogue, but it would be just as
entertaining as the bulk of that in “The Breaking
of the Drought.” The season will conclude with
“ White Heather.”
* * *
“ Home, Sweet Home ” is filling the bill
at Sydney Criterion this week. The fisher-
man’s family and the Duke, moved as pawns by
the naughty playwright, win or lose the games as
he directs. But if the play wearies, there is solace
in the beautiful scene paintings of a Devonshire
village, and some seascapes, in the midst of which
the play works out to its Homely Sweet con-
clusion. The co. is rehearsing new pieces.
** * *
Andrew Black takes his Yoice on a brief
tour of the West, starting to-night. He sings at
Mudgee, Lithgow, Orange, Forbes, Dubbo, and
Bathurst. The local Scots of these places have
been stirred up as by a sight of the Fiery Cross
summoning them to a haggis banquet, and are
preparing to welcome Andrew and the two ladies
of his company.
** * *
Local Thought-readers and Fortune-tellers
lost a chance on Saturday night by staying away
from the gold rush at Wonderland City. Report
says that several intending gold-seekers went to
the prophets asking the precise location of the in-
terred nugget, but the prophets were hazy and
non-committal, or else brassy and erratic, and
there was no good in them. Though many hun-
dreds of persons dug in the bowels and
recesses of Bill Anderson’s lottery with
spades and fury, they turned up no trumps.
Well-dressed women, men and children joined in
the Great Dig for the twenty pound (sterling)
nugget, and, long before they were tired
out, the whole beach looked as if it
had been torn by shot and shell and
cavalry horses. Most of the bogus nuggets
were unsanded, but the equivalent for the
real one was not found. Mr. Anderson gave the
money to the Children’s Aid Society, so a worthy
charity profited, and a great crowd of persons
must feel all the better for the brisk exercise the
nugget chase gave them.
#■ * * *
A wave of song is sweeping through the
Tivoli, and there is more melody in the
programme than at any previous time for long
months past. King and Benson—Benson being
the lady—form the crest of the wave; King, in
fact, is advertised as the only man anywhere,
who produces a high C as part of his ordinary
business. Still, King’s high C is only a little
higher than his partner’s high kick. For they
are a versatile couple, who warble, and caper, and
strum the banjo, and laugh at their own jokes.
The Kweeries arrive with them, and have the 1
merit of getting through their “ magic ” quickly.
And Harold Reeves uses his good baritone voice
in the usual well-known manner. Altogether,
it is a good and varied bill.
** * *
The. Melbourne panto, has ceased to
measure its course by weeks, or to talk of itself in
comparison with any previous panto. “Mother
Goose” is now in its third month, and the
original idea of staging “Robin Hood” at Her
Majesty’s, early in March, has seemingly been re-
placed by a determination to maintain the Christ-
mas bill until Easter, when “Parsifal ” will come
along. There are new items to mark the third month
of “ Mother Goose.” The brightest of the novel-
ties is a rattling song by Miss Florence Young,
in which she proclaims the deplorable British fact
that “ Cupid’s the Captain of the Army.” Also,
the three “variety” men—Lennon, Hyman, and
Lennon—have introduced some club juggling
into their turn. But the humor of their perform-
ance is not less unlovely than before. It is
humor of the Tired Tramp order, which appeals
to the taste of people who can be tickled to death
by the apparition of a dirty-looking monkeyman
in ragged garments and hideous artificial feet.
The effect of this squalid joke in a gaudy nantn
scene is even more inharmonious than the sound
of a small boy blowing a tin trumpet in a flowery
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the curtain will com
tinue to fall every evening until further notice
upon the gladness of “ A Squatter’s Daughter ”
whose young man has turned out to be a Squat-
ter s Son. Their delight in their respective social
greatness is very artlessly expressed. For that
matter the successful Anderstralian drama is full
of artlessness, and if it were very different the
takings at the door would suffer accordingly.
** « #
“The New Clown,” at the Princess’s is
not taking Melbourne by storm, but it will’he
more or less admired by fairly numerous audi-
ences for three weeks. Hugh Ward had the bad
luck, last week, to catch a cold and lose some of
his voice, therefore he was more than ever re-
duced to the necessity of shouting in a whisper,
so to speak, in order to fill a theatre which
is too large for the present purpose. And
even when he hasn’t caught a cold Ward is
not a sufficiently forcible comedian to hold the
stage “on his own” in a farcical-tragical scene,
as when he is supposed to fall fainting from fear
in the first act. He never persuades his audience
to feel the situation. Interpolated songs and
dances are, of course, foreign to the inten-
tion of this little comedy, yet in spite of
those distracting interruptions (which are
accepted by most people as plums in
the pudding) the name part might be realisti-
tically presented. Hugh Ward gets no public
sympathy for the frightened little love-sick lord
who wants to hide his identity in a circus. He
merely makes himself amusing, as usual, and.
judging from the laughter of some people, he is
even thought to be funny when the character
he plays should appear painfully agitated. In
short, he fails to get to work upon the imagination
of his audience, who regard the quaint comedy as
a farce all the time. They are quite at liberty to
shake up their own individual imaginations, and
Miss Palotta gives them one or two graceful
invites to do so ; but, haying gone to the theatre
for a larf, they are disinclined to lapse into
thought. Thinking would give them a nedache.
** * *
For many weeks past nothing of a seriously
musical nature has happened at Melbourne Town
Hall, except Dr. Price’s organ recitals on Satur-
day nights. The Taits announce an impressive
inauguration of the concert season on March
14, when Miss Una Bourne will make her
first appearance in public after her return
from Europe. Miss Bourne was a mighty fine
pianiste ere she went away for a change of musi-
cal atmosphere, and with improved health and
style she is expected to prove a strong attraction.
The same Una under new-Bourne conditions.
** * &
The latest re-arrival at Melbourne Opera
House is Chanti, with his little lot of small
mechanical contrivances, and his evident pride in
the perpetration of them. Chanti will dance and
press the button for a few more nights without
prejudice to the rest of the programme. The
other turns are exactly as before, with the excep-
tion of King and Benson, who have gone away,
and the addition of Nellie Kilburn and Fred
Curran. It goes without saying that the Chrono-
phone figures last on the list. For one thing, it
isn’t wanted. And, if it were wanted, the Chrono-
phone would still be placed last, because, as
manager Rickards remarks, it is the only blessed
member of the co. that can’t raise any objections.
** * *
“ The Fatal Wedding ” has passed on from
Adelaide Royal, much to the regret of the ladies
who loved to hear the Irish maid say “ D ”to
her mistress, and the dear little girl tell her
stepmother-elect: “My friends from the alley are
just as good as I am, and a great deal better than
you.” The sensation scene of the Rope and the
Chasm showed the same inability to thrill as it
did last year. And now Adelaide, which takes
its pantomime whenever it can get it, is flocking
to a “ Cinderella” that has come out of the West;
and it sees a good deal of Miss Beatrice English
as the Prince, and Heba Barlow is a quite
humorous Cinderella, and John F. Sheridan gets
into and out of all manner of clothing, and the
Rainbow ballet and the Porcelain march are
things of great beauty.
“Hamer” : I am going for the sobriety
championship in the middleweight division. I
have only been drunk once to my remembrance —
the other times I have forgotten. I know I was
drunk, because I lifted my hands to heaven and
swore by many things that I wouldn’t be made
drunk by anybody. It was on the occasion of
bidding farewell to the remaining member
of a theatrical company. The rest of us had
to catch a train at 7.30 in the morning,
and with that prospect I went to bed early.
But they woke me and carried me down, bed and
all, to the banqueting chamber, which happened
to be the bedroom of the departing mummer.
He had had the unusual fortune to get full
salary, and, on the strength of it, shouted four
washing-jugs full of beer. I consented to assist
in the consumption, as the quickest way of getting
back to bed, and helped in a generous spirit until
half-way through the third jug, when, as my
friends seemed unwilling to part with me, I said
some things and threw others. I don’t remember
exactly what I threw, but I know that, amongst
other things, were beer, a chest of drawers,
and a bedstead with three people on it. I intended
hurling the room, but I don’t recollect whether it
was hurled or not. The rest of the revellers threw
themselves after me until we reached the stairhead,
when somehow the hotelkeeper got mixed up with
us. We went to the bottom of the stairs in a
heap and sorted ourselves out in the hall. I thought
I ought to apologise for the behaviour of the
drunken people with whom I happened to be
assoc ated, so I pursued the landlord, whom
I saw ascending; but he banged his door in my
face and drew the bolts. I told him I was sorry
that those drunken swine should have dis-
turbed him. He had the injustice to say that I
was disturbing him, and that if I didn’t go to bed
he would ring for the police. I then sang “Rule
Britannia ” to the tune of “ Home, Sweet Home”
five times, to show that I wouldn’t be intimidated.
Afterwards I went to my room, threw myself on
my bed, and found that it wasn’t there. I re-
membered that someone had put it in the bath-
room ; but I carried it noiselessly along the
corridor, so as not to disturb anyone. I feel sure
it was done noiselessly, yet the corridor walls
looked an awful wreck in the morning. I was
the only member of the company that caught the
train, which shows that, after all, I wasn’t drunk;
still, the landlord had the impudence to cir-
culate a report that I was the leader of the riot.
Theatrical Diary and Date Book for 1907-8 (two years),
mentioned in Bulletin, Feb. 14, may be obtained from J. J.
Miller Printing 00. , P.O. Place, Melb.; price 25., postpaid


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
insurance society,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
The Great Nerve Tonic for Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains—
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd writes : —I was suffering from acute
neuralgia down the veins of the neck and over the whole
head and face. My mouth was much swollen. lam sub-
ject to these attacks, and was six weeks under a doctor.
After commencing to take “ FISHER’S ” Phospherine I
had immediate relief, and in one day was cured ; there
only remained a slight weakness from the excessive pain I
had endured.
Whatever is the matter with me in the future I will
always use “ FISHER’S ’’ Phospherine, for it is a most
wonderful MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.
.4.
An Infallible Cure for Headaohe, Brain Fag,
and Indigestion.
FIVE DROPS IN WATER AFTER IS THE
GREATEST AID TO DIGESTION KNOWN.
I It takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and makes
the breath sweet and pleasant when TAKEN HALF AN
HOUR BEFORE BREAKFAST.
ALL CHEMISTB,I/- ; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
BE SURE YOU GET “ FISHER’S."
4
MANUFACTURING PHARMACY,
FISHER & CO., Chemists and Druggists, 337 George Street, opp. General Post Office, Sydney
V
AT POVERTY POINT.
Rupert Clarke, who has lost a lot of enthusiasm for the
turf since his luck turned, is now having- a flutter in
theatrical management. The festive baronet’s cheque
secured the lease of Melbourne Royal for Meynell and
Gunn. The firm that has a Gunn in it needs plenty of
ammunition, and Rupert supplies the ammunition. More-
over he is going to England shortly to select dramas
and engage actors for the firm’s new campaign, which
will open'in November, or thereabouts.
The Corricks, of Maoriland, who have been entertain-
ing the chapel folk of S.A. with a mild and pleasant
entertainment, have left for the land of Johore and his
diamond teeth. A cinematograph man tells how Pa
Corrick borrowed his machine to try some pictures he’d
just received from foreign parts. Ma Corrick and all the
young Corricks were present, and son Leonard worked
the machine. The first picture came from Paris, and
wouldn’t have suited a chapel audience. Pa watched
grimly while Leonard turned. Ma looked horrified at the
girls. Then, as something happened on the screen, Pa
hurriedly exclaimed: “Girls, girls, turn your heads
away. Leonard, shut your eyes, my boy, and turn as
quickly as possible, and get the thing over.”
Edwin Geach has cornered the donkey market in Vic.
The only available specimen was secured by him for the
Princess Theatre production of “ The New Clown,” and
when J. C. Williamson advertised for another for the
Bendigo season of “ Robin Hood,” there were no takers.
At latest, the myrmidons of J.C.W. were scouring Vic.
on motor cars, asking the other sturdy producers if they
had seen a donkey anywhere that could be hired for un-
told wealth. In all probability J ulius Knight has had
to appear with a horse or a cow, or some other incon-
gruous beast.
“Snell”: It is astonishing that, with the theatrical
business so prosperous as it is in Melbourne at the
present time, one theatre should be closed and another
just opened after a long term of inactivity. And
these, the Bijou and the Princess, were the chief resorts
of local theatre-goers only the other night, so to speak.
Certainly show business here is enjoying a phenomenally
high old time. Never were the people so willing to spend
money or so easily pleased. The shows in action are
drawing multitudes. Their success is most pronounced ;
their quality —well, tripe is a useful article of diet and
I’ll not disparage it by invidious comparisons. To be
sure, the big assortment of open air shows and the small
entertainments that are jigging merrily in small subur-
ban and other halls help to keep the Bijou’s doors closed,
but a good co. in good comedy should restore the little
theatre to favor again, and somebody is losing a pile by
not offering the goods. An old manager tells me:
“ There are times when you couldn’t get people into your
theatre if you put on the Resurrection or the Battle of
Armageddon. There are other times when you can’t
keep them out with a gun.” This is one of the other times.
A refreshing: feature amidst the feebleness of the side
shows at Melbourne Dreamland is the spry lecturer who
takes confiding: visitors for “ A Trip to the Moon. the
“ Trip” itself is the hollowest of frauds, and the sixpennj
imposition would be somewhat resented by trippers but
for the highly-elaborated yarn which the lecturer rattles
off with professional fluency and dramatic effect. Me is
probably the smartest man in Melbourne for work of that
sort. In fact, he is Inigo Tyrrell, an actor and showman
who has produced sundry dramas of his own manufacture
at one time or other, but never had the capital necessary
ifor an Andersonian staging of them. Previous toms
taking the billet at Dreamland, where on a cold night he
is as a Voice elocuting in the wilderness, Tyrrell knocked
about Melbourne with r,n engineering invention, which
he has patented throughout Australia. His inventive
laeulty appears to be very versatile, anyhow.
“ F.” : Re Mr. Ryan’s reflections, “ Melb.” (B. 21/2/’O7)
is himself in error in “straightening out” Ryan’s dates.
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Kean arrived in 1863. There were
really four Younges, three of them brothers—Richard
and Fred Younge and Frank, who, in order to avoid
confusion with his brother Fred, adopted his mother s
maiden name of Harlowe. She was, I think, the Mrs.
Harlowe who appeared at Drury Lane as far back as 1790,
and who died January 1, 1852. Then there was Charles
Young’, who had a sister Fanny on the stage. She was
married to a capable actor, George Washington Daniels.
Another sister was the wife of Mr. G. H. Rogers, and
mother of Mr. Horace Rogers, the doyen of the literary
staff of S.M. Herald. Some doubt the brotherhood of
Richard and Fred Younge, but I believe they were
brothers. I knew the pair intimately, and never had a
suspicion that they were not of one blood.
That theatrical case heard in Melbourne, the other
day, in which it was deposed that the leading lady of a
suburban dramatic company received 3s. 6d. a night
and the heavy villain 45., recalls Phil May’s gag of the
dilapidated actor : “ We hear about these great salaries
of twenty-five and thirty bob a week, but who ever gets
em?”
In Melbourne Paunch appears a sort of a kind of an auto-
"biography of Madam Melba in which is related an oft-told
anecdote referring to the great songstress when a child.
It is to the effect that a jealous playmate observed, after
Nellie’s first public appearance, “Nellie Mitchell, I saw
your garter.” The original version didn’t say “garter,
ibut what it did say Paunch is too shocked to mention,
although the Argus published the dreadful word some
years back.'
Gordon MTntosh, the Little John of the Knight Oo.’s
«« Robin Hood ” production, stands 6ft. 4in. in his socks.
■"We stands practically the same out of his socks.)
The latest phase of Cow ! A movement is on foot in
Warrnambool (Vic.) to raise funds for the production of
a new comic opera, entitled “The Golden West, or A
Dairy Farm in Arcadia,” the music and libretto of which
were composed by Louis Bayer. The Cow with an opera
built round it, and crying out “ Moo 1” across the foot-
lights—it is too much.
» Died at Gympie (Q.), on February 17, aged 87, Robert
Barlow, better known by his stage name of “Billy”
Barlow, who at one time was a singer on English and
Continental platforms. His song, “ The Blue Tail Fly,”
.achieved a world-wide reputation. He had resided in
Gympie since 1868, having opened the Apollonian Hotel
there in that year. His wife, aged 83, survives him.
Stated by W. S. Gilbert at a dinner given to him, on
December 30, by the O.P. Club, a leading coterie of
theatre patrons, that “ Ruddigore,” which is re-
garded by the public as the only failure—and a con-
spicuous failure at that—of the Gilbert and Sullivan
operas, ran eight months, and, with the sale of the
libretto, put £7OOO into the author’s pocket. This state-
ment sets one wondering how much some of the con-
spicuous successes added to the banking account of the
humorous person who invented “Little Buttercup.”
Egypt’s Khedive has just written a waltz, which has
been" published without his photo, on the cover. The
fact has reminded someone that the love of melody runs
wild among royalty. Queen Alexandra, ’tis said, is a
capable pianist; the King sings, and even the Prince of
Wales can play the pianola. The late Duke of Edinburgh
founded an orchestra in which he was violinist, and
nobody ever went mad listening to it. Prince Ferdinand
of Bavaria plays the fiddle, and it is stated that the Ger-
man Court has its hands full keeping the Kaiser’s hair
cut short to prevent him from becoming a world-famed
’cellist.
Somebody who believes in the abbreviation of the
agony has condensed “East Lynne” into a one-act
playlet.
Theatrical management in Norway is true, in its intense
provincialism, to the memory of Ibsen, the father of Nor-
wegian drama. Last year a Danish touring company
visited Christiania and scooped the pool, therefore the
local managers and actors are agitating for a Bill to
“ protect national dramatic art” with a tax on foreign
theatrical companies, ranging from 10 per cent, (on gross
receipts) for the first month, to 40 per cent, if their stay
is prolonged over the four weeks. The little history of
the stage in Norway is the record of an anti-Danish
movement by the local literary faction. The Norwegian
Theatre in Christiania, where Ibsen got the billet of
instructor 50 years ago, was founded by the Government
in opposition to the “Christiania” Theatre, which had a
Danish manager and company. Ibsen himself was quite
willing to have his plays staged at the “foreign” house
when he couldn’t produce them properly at his own, but
the purely Norwegian spirit of his work exercised a
strong anti-Danish influence.
“Philo”: William Anderson’s “Face at the Window”
isn’t in it as a horror when compared with two melo-
dramas recently staged in Germany. One, named “ Ritte
Rlaubart,” produced at one of the principal Berlin
theatres, includes as props the severed and blood-
dripping heads of Bluebeard’s six murdered wives,
and a horribly realistic funeral. It was withdrawn after
a few performances, because the populace threw Frankfurt
sausages and sour krout at it. The other horror was called
“ Fraiiling’s Erwachen,” and is the story of two school-
boys and a schoolgirl, named respectively Melchior, Moritz
and Wendla. Melchior is a boy of bestial nature,
and Moritz, falling under his evil influence, commits
suicide, which causes the death of Wendla. Me.chior
goes by night to Wendla’s grave, where he meets the
ghost of Moritz, with his head under his arm, and they
are having a friendly chat when a masked man appears
and orders Moritz to take his head back into his grave,
and leads Melchior away. Whether the masked man is a
devil or a hangman I am not certain.
This is the case of Asterisk and Dash, the celebrated
song and dance partnership. Asterisk and Dash are
actually man and wife, and can prove it. They were
members of the Commonwealth Comedy and Variety Co.
when it went to bits and pieces at Wattle-in-Dab, and
they started for the nearest railway town on foot with
their bundles up, hoping to earn daily bread and a coin
or two with a few alfresco performances on the road.
Their luck was not too good, and they were forced to
sleep out, but the weather was fair, and there was no
particular hardship in this. On the second night they
dossed among the hay in a small grass paddock that had
been hand-cut. Early in the morning Asterisk was awak-
ened by a huge farmer man who was shaking him
roughlv. “ Here, here ! ” said Hayseed, “ out o’ this you
go—the pair o’ you.” “ Why, what harm are we doing?”
asked the pro. “ Oh, no pertickler harm,” answered the
farmer ; “ but I ain’t goin’ to have you actor people doss-
ing in my paddocks unless you can show yer marriage
certificate.”
“ N.L.”: I think the idea of giving Australian play-
goers plenty of “ fresh faces ”is being overworked. Any-
way, the fresh names are an abounding nuisance. No
sooner does one painfully memorise Myrtilla Bagsby-
Smythe’s name and appearance than Myrtilla vanishes
like the morning milkman, and her place is taken by
another import who disappears just as suddenly. Thus
the memory effort is sheer waste, and the attempt to
keep up with all the imports is as satisfactory as trying
to take a census at an ant-hill. All the playgoers I have
heard speak on the subject seem to have a leaning
towards known Australian faces—not necessarily old
ones, but capable countenances which they remember
seeing in numerous other good parts. The intervals
spent in touring other States give, on return, quite
enough novelty to the average footlighter’s features.
We can do with a good deal less of Myrtilla Bagsby-Smy the
and Kittle Spoon.
MISS D. HILL, WORLD'S CHAMPION
LADY SWIMMER.
The States Photo. Co., Sydney.
“Hamer”: I have personally experienced theatrical
difficulties, and I have come in contact with some jour-
nalistic difficulties. Occasionally I have met both together.
There were two papers in a town where I was giving a
prolonged season, mainly because I hadn’t the money to
get away and start a short season elsewhere, andbecause,
whilst the season continued, the creditors were fairly
quiet. The editor of each paper had, at the outset,
taken me into his sanctum, arid told me how small
the advertising value of the other rag was
they were running l daily' issues, and cutting one
another’s throat. I gave an advt. to each paper,
and felt sorry for myself. Outside the newspaper
offices the staffs lingered nightly in much the same way
as actors lurk about the theatre when the ghost should be
walking and isn’t, and with the same heavy, depressed
look. On the second day, one of the newspaper proprie-
tors came to me, and asked me, as a favor, to advance
him his advertising money, as he had to dispense a few
shillings round. He bared his bosom tome, and I like-
wise opened my chest to him. 1 told him that I was
waiting for that night’s house to dispense a few shillings
round also, and invited him to wait with me. While he
waited in a saddened way listening to the unpaid band play-
ing outside the hall to attract the chary audience, the
other newspaper man also bared his bosom to me. He
likewise wanted to dispense a few shillings, and I also
invited him to wait. It was a depressing circumstance,
those two pressmen waiting on me for the cash I was
myself waiting for, and our people waiting on us all.
The newspaper staff neglected the newspaper offices and
hung round the theatre in a futile way and fraternised
with the actors. Ultimately, the evening panned out to
a very few shillings all round —not even enough to drown
our griefs in beer.
“Kodak”: Every Friday morning a decayed Roman
appears underneath my office window and agitates the
atmosphere with a barrel organ, while a monkey on a
chain hunts furiously for fleas in time to the music.
Have found it interesting to compare the influence of the
various composers on the animal’s investigations. While
Donizetti is turned on he averages five fleas per minute.
Verdi wakes him up so much that I have known him to
capture as many as eight. Strauss slows him down to
three, but Balfe excites him dreadfully, and, under the
stimulus of his quicker passages, I have watched him get
as many as eleven. The Roman gentleman’s machine
doesn’t contain any Wagner, and I am speculating what
the animal would do if he heard some “ Tannhauser.”
Would he tear his hide right off, or wouldn’t he ? [This
item is put in the theatrical column on account of the
barrel organ.]
Heard at a Melbourne suburban dramatic performance—
price of admission, a silver bit: —“There, that is Hector
Vavasoor, the villain, the blackguard, the thief 1 He it
was who stole away my wife, he stole away your wife,
and, by Heaven if he is not watched he will steal
Henningham’s wife!” Voice of horrid person in the
gallery: “Lor’bli-me, Hector Vaversooer, why don’t yer
come ’n’ live down our street?”
“Stony ” : There is in my city a large, imported person
who gets a precarious living by occasional appearances
on concert platforms, filling in the intervals by lounging
in private bars. This portly one had some trouble,
lately, during a visit which he paid to a neighboring
State. It was the only thing he did pay, for the landlord
at his hotel found that all efforts to collect food and bed
dues were vain. At last the hotelkeeper grew tired of
the placid front shown to his attacks on the fatted
person's purse. He made one final appeal, which had no
effect whatever, so he went up in person and cast the
singer’s wardrobe through the window into the street
below. It must have been a pathetic sight to see the
bulky melodist groping in the sewer for his beautiful silk
vests, and rescuing his best Sunday trousseau* from the
roof of a passing van. However, the injured import is
again about, and seems none the worse for his experi-
ences, either in his dignity or in the placidity of his
beaming smile.
The mouth is mightier than, the pen. The brightest
author cannot write “ D n!” as effectively as a fool
can speak it. In the manuscript of a play “ D n!”
looks a mean expression of human feeling, but when a
low comedian breathes the word it makes a thousand
people roar.
“Bill Tell” : J. T. Moate,,the very con-
spicuous head of the mysterious 8, A. syndicate
that wanted to build a land-grab railway to the
Northern Territory, is an ex-insurance agent. He
is a thick-set fellow who wears a belltopper, and
trousers that bag at the knees. He is always in a
hurry, and dines at a restaurant which is also
frequented by Tom Price. When he got his
£lO,OOO deposit back from the Government, he
must have shown the receipt to everyone in
Currie-street, where his office is. Once he showed
me a cablegram from some mysterious people,
giving him instructions to invest something like
fifty billion pounds in something or other. At
least, I was so impressed by Mr. Moate and his
cable that I think it was fifty billions. It may
have been a pound or two less.
“ Spring ” : Touching surf-bathing and
life-saving appliances. Sunday forenoon in the
breakers at Bondi is one long delirious dream.
The long rollers splash cool and creamy over
large quantities of brown manly and maidenly
skins, and the show is good to look upon, and the
laughter is good to hear. But there are oiten
cries of distress mingling with the squeals of
girlish delight. To save the reckless beings who
go too far out a genius has invented a scheme
which depends for its success upon the truth
which is not in man. The inventor thrusts two
tickets, one pink and the other blue, under the
bather’s nose, as he goes down to face the deep.
The pink ticket is marked “ 75 yards” ; the blue
“35 yards.” The idea is that when the bather
presents himself tor his bathing costume he will
be asked whether he is a strong or a weak swimmer.
If he says the former, he will be given a, pink
dress, in which he may go 75 yards out ; if the
latter, a blue dress, which permits him to go out
only 35 yards. Therefore, if all went well, there
would be a pale blue line of weak swimmers, and,
further out, a line of strong pink ones. But how
many proud bathers will own up to be only weak
swimmers? And when the dauntless weakling
feels the sea a-calling, what’s to force him to
consider whether he’s a pink or a blue.
Anyhow, it is noticeable that nearly all
the victims of surf-bathing accidents are reputed
strong swimmers. The only point about
the scheme is that the girls will cluster on the
blue limit. Then the bold, bad man of the sea will
also hang about that soft safety zone, because, if
there is a greater joy than being bowled over by
a sweeping, laughing breaker, it is when a plump,
yielding, sprawling, squealing girl crowns the
breaker, and adds her weight to the blow—the
dear, reckless, demined, damp, wholesome girl of
the briny, with her dimpled knees, her gleeful
limbs, her sunburnt nose, and her shoe-distorted
toes !
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report —Although
we did not hold a wool sale this week, we have been
instrumental in placing many parcels passed in at our
recent auction at satisfactory prices. The market, as
compared with last week, exhibits a very buoyant tone,
competition being strengthened by many Melbourne
operators. The demand on Bradford and Japanese
account has been very pronounced, seoureds especially
being in strong request. Burry and wasty sorts, although
still somewhat irregular, are meeting with increased
attention. We sell agrain on the 11th March.*
“ Stony ” (from Melbourne) : The glory of
Hampton has not yet all departed. True, its
wine-license has been torn from its sandy brow,
and the perlice haunt its precincts on holidays.
But still the ti-tree beckons, and the waves, dashing
up the sandy shore, see strange things in the
languorous calm of moonlit nights. Hampton has
had a chequered career. Quaite naice people used
qo hire its rustic hall for a dance, and have a
rippin’ good time sitting out between numbers ;
and on holidays factory girls skipped across the
road from the wine saloon to the shore, while
their jovial partners cursed and kissed under the
influence of purple liquors. Nowadays things are
a little more seemly, but people still go “ down
to Hampton.” I went down there for a “picnic
one day. We had tea on the stands the usual
gritty, uncomfortable tea, with nine people rush-
ing about to prepare a meal for not more than a
dozen After food and sand we sat on the
beach, and talked about the weather, and said- a
number of disagreeable things about Mr. Jud-
kins. Then, at nine o’clock, we climbed
the cliff towards the railway. As we approached
the rustic hall in the tea-gardens, while
yet a long way off, we heard the piano
playing 1 **o, dry thosG tears !*as a waltz. O,
dry-bang, crash ! —those tears. Biff, boom !
And calm—clash, clatter !—those fears. Bang,
biff, boom ! Life was not—rattle, bang, slam !
made for weep—tra-la-la-la—ing ! ” Inside, 40
young men and maidens danced. From the
deadly slow fashion of their dancing, one would
have thought the words “wine saloon” had
never been breathed in the Eden of Hampton-by-
the-Sea. As we passed, however, there was a
commotion at the door, and out bounced two
young men, in holts, clawing and punching and
cursing bitterly. The music still went pounding
on ; but the contents of the hall swarmed out
upon the platform at the door. The dance-room
was almost deserted. Excited damsels demanded
the reason of the row, and no amount of language
could tear them away from the scene. As we left
—for we were a sedate crowd —the inob was
holding the combatants apart, each straining on
the leash, as it were, and dripping wild curses
from his foaming lips, and probably dashed glad
to be held back; while the piano still cried its
comforting message down the wind.
Mr. Post Mason, the popular American bari-
tone, recently success with Harry Rickards, is now on
tour with his vaudeville company, and has been drawing 1
large audiences in the chief towns of Victoria and
southern line of N.S.W. The combination will open in
the Victoria Theatre, Newcastle, for season, on Saturday,
March 2.*
HER VIOLIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now from slumber every rose
Wakes and listens, trembles, g 'ws,
As in some Iranian vale
When the passioned nightingale
Broke the garden’s sweet repose.
Through the latticed window streams
Music 1 Like a flood it seems,
Bearing with it as it comes
Down among the scented gums
All the pageantry of dreams.
Doris and her violin !
’Tis a magic web they spin
Round about us ; and around
Steals the wizard-woof of sound,
Love and laughter woven in.
Listen to the dreams that flow
From her wonder-working bow 1
Lingering lovers, man and maid,
Throng the pathways, deep with shade,
In the land of Long Ago.
Dream and listen as it soars !
Golden-hearted troubadours
Proffering with golden tongue,
To the casement open flung
Each his passionate devoirs.
Listen to the blaring chords !
With set lances, flickering swords,
Plume and pennon blazing bright,
Flash into the mailbd fight
Charlemagne's fierce battle-lords.
How the onset shakes the steep !
But, by lichened castle-keep,
With sad eyes that mourn and yearn
Lovers never to return,
Wistful ladies watch and weep.
Now the minor sinks and sighs
Down to silence, droops and dies,
Bringing as on failing wings
Sadty-sweet forgotten things,
Old importunate memories.
Sings of Youth, a rose full-blown
Ere its savor can be known ;
Love, a song —its inner heart
Baffling every seeker’s art —
Dwindling to a monotone.
Life, a cloud-wisp, silver bright
For a moment in our sight
Journeying to the Realm of Shades,
Hardly visioned, ere it fades
In the shadow of the night.
Ah ! the wondrous chord that flows !
And the soul exultant knows,
Be the journey short or long,
Still there’s joyance in the song,
Still there’s fragrance in the rose !
’Tis a morning, rich with spring,
And the dawn-wet orchards fling
Down upon the mantled grass,
As the pilfering breezes pass,
All their snowy burgeoning.
In the heart’s green garden, too,
It is Spring—beneath the blue
Zenith of that Wonderland
Vivid from her sentient hand
All the dreams of youth renew.
The Old Highway (ah ! how wet
With our tears, how grief-beset!)
Shines again, the Adventurous Road
Where the Heart of Boyhood strode
Prince of Fortune's Amulet.
World’s to conquer, heights to win 1
’Tis a magic web they spin
As their master-music streams
With its pageantry of dreams,
Doris and her Violin !
WESTRALIA.
THE FRODIGAL.


Deafness, Dead poises
and all other Aural Diseases, permanently cured at vour
own home. No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-
drums, but,pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by your-
self at your own home without any detention froinvour
daily routine work. Endorsed by the highest Medical
Authorities. Bead the following statements
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to teli
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes : “ Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely disappeared.”
Call or write for full" FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE ” C0.,'90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Judging from the effective display in the
Inventions Court at Melbourne Exhibition, the
Australian atmosphere is good for inventive
genius. No doubt the untrammelled methods of
Australian thought, aided by D.C.L. whisky, are
largely responsible for this. Receptive minded-
ness and D.C.L. is the best combination for the
growth of ideas. But don’t forget that fount of
wisdom—D.C.L. The canniest Scots swear by it.*
Messrs. Williamson and Co., Jundah, Q.,
recently wrote “ Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy enjoys a great reputation
in these parts. It has effected some really re-
markable cures, and scarcely a home is without a
bottle.”
Mr. L. P. Williams, Manager Timks and Star,
Westport, N.Z., writes“ While on a visit to
Christchurch, I was attacked with a severe bout
of dysentery, and was unable to leave the hotel.
Had some medicine sent in from a chemist, but it
gave me no relief. Having seen in the papers
what others had said about Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy, I decided to try
it, and sent out for a bottle. The result was most
satisfactory, for after taking two doses I was fvce
from all pain, and was soon completely cured.”
Make it a rule of your home to keep Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy as a
safeguard against bowel complaint. For sale
everywhere, Is. Gd.*
Have a Care
for Your Eyes.
The Great Poet Milton asks:
Why was this sight
To such a tender hall of the eye confined
Therefore when afflicted with Sandy
Blight, Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids, &c.,
don’t experiment, but use the Australian
National Remedy,
HOSE'S CEIEEWEE EYE LOTION,
This Preparation has been the salva-
tion of thousands. Rose’s Celebrated
Eye Lotion is sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally a postal note
for 1/9 to the Proprietors, will bring you
a bottle by z’eturn post.
Sole Proprietors and Manufacturers ;
H. A. ROSE & GO.,
Chemists and Druggists,
531 George Street, Sydney.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
CHANGING HIS CLASS.
HER : “ No, I couldn’t marry a red-haired man.”
HIM: “ Don’t let that bar me; look how little
I’ve got.”
The lately-published “Etiquette of Aus-
tralia,” prepared for those who want to float
with the Cream, contains one naive injunction
that oughtto make its authoress famous
If you tread or stumble against anyone, an apology is
necessary. Even the colloquial “ I beg yours,” is better
than a look of indifference.
But what about, “ What ho ! She bumps ! ”
.The Bulletin is pining to know if it can go on
saying that and still mix with the Very Best
People.
One of the mirthful side-shows of Sydney,
last week, was the narrative of an ancient ex-
captain, now an accountant, who complained that
three years ago he had put £4 into two boots—
being beguiled thereto by spiritual, not spirituous
or bottled, imposture—and hadn’t seen the money
since. It was a pathetic as well as a humorous
tale, showing how tough a thing is human
credulity, and how anxiously certain ancient
parties will grope under beds and in dust-boxes in
search of ghosts which would be no use to them if
found, for a ghost won’t even boil down into soup
and it isn’t thick enough for gravy. The old man
said that for a great part of his life he had been a
consistent struggler after the Light, as it is
revealed by turning out the gas and hearing an
alleged spectre rap out the statement that he is
dead and wishes everybody else was the same. It
was in pursuit of the Light, he said, that he put
the money into the boots. A medium told him
darkly to go upstairs and pour the coin into the
hoof-cases, and he did it. Presently he thought
he saw the medium’s wife coming up the stair, and
next he saw the medium doing likewise. He
asked the medium if he was the medium, and the
medium said he wasn’t—he was merely a reflec-
tion, and the real medium was lying on the table
downstairs. The man who had deposited in the
boots went down to look for the medium, but all
he seems to have found was a voice which told
him to go up again. When he went up again
the medium’s wife said profoundly, “ I see a dark
form,” and after that the money was gone, but the
boots weren’t. There was no explanation This
tale was mixed up with a confused yarn about a
bar of gold which fell from the sky into Centen-
nial Park, and caused a fight with a policeman,
and about a magnet that discovered lost
property, traced criminals, and dragged fire-
engines. An utterly distracted magistrate,
who had fished hard for something tangible in
this wilderness of boots and ghosts, asked why
there had been three years’ delay in taking pro-
ceedings. And when he heard that it was partly
owing to a psychological problem, and partly
owing to the magnet, he gave up the case and
shood it out of his court, somewhat after the
manner of Solomon on his judgment seat, when
he cried out with a loud voice and said he was
blowed.
* * * *
Parson Tregear, of Melbourne, lately tried
to work off a crude bacon sarcasm on Colling-
wood Council. He applied for permission to keep
pigs in the town, and expressed a hope that his
piggeries would receive the same concessions, in
the way of tax exemptions, as that “sister insti-
tution,” the Abbotsford Convent. This rather
foolish jest made a local ratepayer boil over, and
he also wrote to the Council
As a citizen of over 40 years’residence, I most earnest!y
protest against the granting - of a licence to Tregear to
keep pigs anywhere in Collingwood. I have no objection
to the pigs (most useful animals, and clean in comparison
to the applicant), but I have a most decided objection to
the man, and, as a citizen, strongly protest against him
getting one solitary foot more ground than he has at pre-
sent, as his Lord’s Day proceedings are a disgrace to any
minister of the Gospel, and a decided injury to the good
name of Oollingwood. There is plenty of God’s work
amongst the poor for this “ holy parson ” in the slums, if
he has the vocation to do the Master’s work. . . 1
emphatically urge you to refuse his application. I more-
over beg to suggest that the man be examined by two
medical men, to see if he is even fit to be trusted amongst
pigs of any kind.
* * *
“ 0.K.” : Sometime before the passing of
the Judkins-Bent Gambling Restriction Act I
discovered that the bigger men who handle race-
horses mostly in favor of that much-abused
measure. Some of them were lolling near me on
the benches of
Daly’s Turkish
Bath (Melb.),
and they talked
as freely as they
perspired. There
was “too much
racin’ and too
much bettin’,”
they said.
“Wren’s tote
ought to be put
down. Wren
ought to be satis-
fied with all the
bloomin’ money
he had made.”
Also Tattersall’s
sweeps were un-
favorably re-
garded by the
censorious jock-
eys and trainers.
Talking of the
police and the
political bear-
ings of “Social
Reform,” some-
body made a
passing refer-
ence to Samuel
Gillott. “Who
i.s this Jill ’Ot ?”
asked a lean light-
weight jockey. “ He’s the
Chief Secretary,” said the oracle
of the party. “Yus, but wot’s ’is bizness?”
the boy wanted to know. “ He’s a lawyer with a
bloomin’ lot of stuff,” said the Oracle. “You
know that bit of Swanston-street where Evans’
fruit shop stands—well, that’s ’is. You know the
block of houses where the bootmaker hangs out-
well, that’s ’is. You know Edgar Moore’s pub. in
Collins-street—well, that’s ’is.” And several
other pubs, were mentioned as being “’is.” “My
oath!” said the sad-faced jockey-boy. “No
wonder they call ’im Jill ’Ot. I call’m Jill-blanky-
’Ot.”
Quorn (S.A.) has had a “mystery” straight
out of a penny novelette. A pretty and popular
girl was employed by a photographer. At mid-
day on Friday she was buying lollies and cheer-
fully making engagements for Saturday evening
and Sunday. Site went back to her work in the
“darkroom” of the studio; half-an-hour later
she was found dead—in her mouth lollies and a
piece of the cyanide of potassium always kept
there. Accident, everyone thought, till a post
mortem brought out a fact which fiction would
have avoided, that she was far gone in a condition
which might account for suicide. But the
mystery only takes another form here, for she had
an accredited lover, and he had been acquainted
with her only a few weeks, and no previous lover
can be traced.
Stipendiary Magistrate Isaacs, of Sydney,
fining four Chinese gambling bosses £lOO each, is
reported to have said he “didn’t quite see the
utility of prosecuting Chinese, who, as long as
they were not doing harm to anyone, might per-
haps be allowed to play their games in their own
way.” He went on to remark that these prosecu-
tions often led to faction fights and bloodshed.
What Mr. Isaacs, a minor magistrate, thinks of
things is really not of much consequence ; but the
Minister for Justice might point out to him that,
spoken from the Bench, foolish, irrelevant and
impertinent remarks of this sort are liable to en-
courage the Chinese to break the law under the
mistaken impression that Isaacs, S.M., has re-
pealed it.
* * * *
This is the season when the N.S.W. coun-
try towns produce their fatted pumpkin and
their bloated scone, and make a show of them;
when, also, the largest liars of every neighbor-
hood tell tales of the number of fatted pumpkins
that have been entered for their show, and the
miserable record of their hated rival. Berry
leads, so far, claiming a record of over
(3000 entries ; it might have made the number
10,000, and received the same amount of public
credence. Wollongong only had face enough to
say that its entries reached 4000—which is some-
where about the number the “Royal’’Show in
Sydney gathers up each year. The sceptic has
no means of checking the figures put forward in
the Cow districts, because the Cow district shows
issue no catalogues. So the public naturally gets
muddled, and doesn’t know whether Jones’ bull
is competing against Smith’s pig, or whether Mrs.
Thomson’s buns are pitted against Mrs. Maguire’s
lilac apron, and, after all, it really doesn’t matter
much whether it is or isn’t.
* * * *
Nambucca River has just furnished a
bright example of life behind the bar on the
N.S.W. coast, and also supplied an advertisement
for the imported expert who comes to Australia
to guide the benighted population. Some years
ago a High British Authority stated that if a few
hundred thousand were spent in a manner indi-
cated, safe navigation to the Nambucca would be
assured. The money was borrowed, and the bar
is worse than before the training walls and break-
waters were thought of. Early in January the
two steamers on which Nambucca depends for a
living had just bumped their way into the river,
when, for no reason at all, a sandspit shot across
the entrance. For 40 days and nights the popula-
tion on the river were cut off, until a relief
steamer, with shallow draft, warranted able to
walk on dry land, staggered over the obstruction
with beer and playing-cards and other necessaries
for the starving people. Another week elapsed
before a vessel could get out, and by this time all
the local produce intended for Sydney market
had rotted through old age. There are loud cries
for the railway along the North Coast from Nam-
bucoa, but it is pretty certain that the ungrateful
cookies will send their stuff by water whenever the
treacherous bar can be negotiated with safety.
The cruel part of it is that while the imported
expert has been paid for, the Nambucca harbor
works have not.
Charles Collins came to Newcastle
(N.S.W.) about the end of January, per
boat. He was a drover from Queensland,
with £l5 in his poelcet. The stranger
walked down the street and in a puh met
a lady who was willing to see him home. They
went home, taking with them six bottles of beer
and two of gin. There was a big thirst hovering
round, for the gentleman residing on the premises,
one Davis, was sent out for two more bottles of
beer. Charles Collins retired to bed and put
his £l5 under the pillow. When he awoke in
the morning the money was gone. Then Charles
Collins started in and smashed things, and Davis
came in and started smashing Charles Collins,
and Davis was the best smasher. The crowd duly
appeared in the police court and was committed
for trial on Collins’s evidence, and there was some
public sympathy for Charles Collins. It did not
last. A few nights after, he sailed down the
street with a brick and no visible reason, and
smashed £l3O worth of plate glass. He was
committed for trial also. Judge Fitzhardinge
came along the other week and swept up the
fragments of the case. Davis went to gaol for 18
months and the woman for 12. Charles Collins
was sent to Darlinghurst pending the Governor’s
pleasure, for the jury acquitted him on the
grounds of insanity. He told a weird story in the
witness box about how, while droving in Queens-
land, he was caught by a flood and had to build
some sort of ark in a tree, and take refuge there
with a quarter of mutton and 21bs. of flour. He
was there for three weeks. A sheep came by and he
caught and ate that. There were also a couple of
horses tied up under the tree at the beginning of
the story, but whether or not he ate them was not
made clear. Anyhow, he reckoned, what with
hunger, sandflies and mosquitoes he went mad.
Which was likely enough. Then he spent 11
months in an asylum, and hadn’t long come out
when he met Davis and the lady and the plate-
glass window.
* * *
“ Yarrum ” : During the recent strikes at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) many of the miners ran
their wives and children out to Lake Macquarie,
where they lived in tents. The men fished day
and night, and caught tons of food. I don’t fish,
hut I lived among them, and had no occasion to
purchase bullock. When fortnightly strike pay
happened along, there was always a shivoo; and
then things went merrily: The men all cursed a
lot when ordered in, and the women and young-
sters wept aloud. They had had a glorious time.
There were only bread and treacle to buy; and a
family of eight lived like Roman emperors at the
rate of 4s. a week. Can one wonder at occasional
strikes, with a lake full of fish and oysters handy ?
Brother Fat will have to buy the lake and
drain it.
KISMET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whether life be sweet or bitter, purple-born or unpre-
tending-,
Sombre shade or sunlit glitter, it is speeding to its end-
ing.
O er all human mirth or sorrow it has wings to bear it
flying ;
And To-day is soon To-morrow, when the living are the
dying.
So there seems a ripened reason in the fatalist’s conten-
tion
That as Death reaps all in season, and admits of no pre-
vention,
We must surely cease to trouble over ups and downs of
Fortune,
Which itself is but a bubble that we vainly may impor-
tune,
And can leave to Allah’s ruling whether luck or fell
disaster
Shall be chosen for the schooling of his children by their
Master.
While we listen to the luring of the Present’s love and
laughter,
Every proffered joy securing, let what will arrive here-
after.
From the Turkish stoic learning Kismet’s passionless
deriding
Of each useless, hopeless yearning that is not for our
deciding.
With a word thus taking shelter from the mysteries that
bound us,
Snugh r severe! from the welter of the warring creeds all
round us.
In a world so mostly hollow, both in practice and in
preaching,
This is dogma all may follow, for the Truth dwells in its
teaching.
That what must be surely must be, by a law beyond our
ranging ;
With no option, we may just be reconciled to the
unchanging.
To this dictum all must grovel; lord of manor-house and
villa,
Starveling helot in his hovel; it is written so. Bismillah !
Since the “Moving Finger” scribbles, and no supplication
alters,
And its “Finis” for our fribbles or our flurries never
falters,
It is only' Kismet aids us to a dread-repelling starkness
When our hold on life evades us, and we slip into the
darkness.
N.s.w.
TALAFERAU.
THE
MASTER
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
V'JfrD €_’•s «at voopk Vs Jos ”
Kn" W'lll-yunn" t’iV)e eads.
sits there deadly still
pnvoi'oo’ feather beds.
•guf see irn wen e s ome from
riy • c/tonr e 'owl an ' rouse
There's no mistakin’ then oo is
'•T’b' master of the ’oust
KODAK.


EDUCATION BY POST J||f 1
1
LEARN
TO
earn!
Improve your position by taking
a Postal Course ol Tuition from
STOTT & HOARE’S Business
College, Moore Bt., Sydney.
“ Home Study,” Post Free.
The cruelest thing ever said about sleepy
Geelong came at the end of a Vic. newspaper
death-advt. the other day. It remarked: “In-
terred at Geelong. So He bringeth them to their
desired haven.”
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
■B.S
J3ia^Um
The Popular Dinner Jacket.
IT will soon be time to wear a Dinner Jacket, and every
man who dresses at all well will wear one. We offer
the smartest of Dinner Jackets—ready for Service,
made of fine dress Twill with Silk Collar and Facings.
They are worn at Masonic Functions, Socials, Card
Parties, Concerts and for Home Wear.
JACKETS ONLY, 425.; with VEST, 50s.
TROUSERS, 18s. 6d.
ORDER FORM.
Please send me the following goods
Chest measurement for coat Waist
Sleeve from centre of hack to wrist Trousers,
outside seam length Inside seam
PEAPES & CO. Ltd
Men's & Boys' Outfitters,
309-311 George-st., Sydney
“F.H.R.” : She was hurrying down
Erskine-street (Sydney) to catch the Balmain
boat. She was a vision at the visionary age of
eighteen. A detailed description of her is beyond
me. She was a Norman Lindsay girl, and her
silk blouse was all open-worked at the top, as her
stockings were at the feet. She was one of the
fairest sights on earth as she sat back in the
britchen (so to speak) and stepped jauntily down
the hill. Then something happened. I can’t
tell you exactly what broke, but that ideal figure
collapsed. The square shoulders were no more,
and fell into a rounded hump, while all the life
and gaiety of the sweet young creature were scat-
tered to the winds just because something broke.
A lady friend of mine assures me it was her sus-
penders. If the mere breaking of a pair of sus-
penders is going to transform my fairy queen
into a listless bundle of clothes, I’ll see to it that
a real serviceable brand of steel suspenders is
put on the market at once. What would happen
to one of the 16-stone charmers who dazzle the
Block if her suspenders and metallic belt broke
at the same time ? I think a cab would about
meet the situation.
* * * *
The Office-Boy’s brief narrative :
A tart I’ve only met twice in me natcherl give me an
invite f’r a party the other night. She never give me the
invite ’erself, but got a chap she knows t’ arst me. I
heard she wuz hot stuff so I never went up. Larst night
—night o’ th’ party, that was—’bout five of th’ blokes
she’d give invites to, went up to ’er place * shickkered ’
an’ ‘ got to ’ ’er old man. Bleeve they give ’im a terrible
’idin’. Muster been pretty lively up there 1 Sorry I
never went now !
RUSHING THINGS.
THE PRISONER : “ What yer think , ’Enery?
Here’s the cop arrestin’ me fer ’avin’ no
lawful visible means of support, 'n" me wife
on’y dead a month.”
A weird story of a dream gone wrong comes
from Ballarat. On a Sunday the manager of the
North YVoah Hawp mine was called on twice
by an excited woman, who announced that her
husband had not come home, and that she had
had a dream that he was 600 ft. beneath the sur-
face in the workings of the mine aforesaid, and
in great danger of losing his life through a col-
lapse of the drive, if the drive hadn’t already
collapsed on him. After many efforts to shoo
the woman away, the manager became impressed.
He organised a party and descended to the 600 ft.
level. No signs of an imminent collapse were
found, but the lady’s husband was there—he was
in such proximity to a quantity of rich quartz
that the police took him on a charge of attempted
gold-stealing. The lady departed sadly to her
home, with her faith in dreams shattered. Not
even a dream of a Cup winner will tempt her to
leave her bed in future.
Ifc isn’t often that a successful divorce
petitioner has to be escorted away from the
court by a couple of constables lest a crowd of
illogical but angry women slay him in the halls of
justice ; but that happened last week in Mel-
bourne to Francis Rogers Wicks. The case was
chiefly remarkable by reason of the amazing indis-
cretions of Mrs. Wicks, who had, it was sworn,
confided in her husband’s elderly housekeeper,
and had desired her to “find her a nice boy or
two.” The elderly housekeeper found her one,
whom Wicks and a private ’tec presently dis-
covered sitting on the grass in the Fitz-
roy Gardens with his lady love. Mrs.
Wicks and the co-re. swore that she had
merely engaged him to watch her husband,
but their yarns didn’t quite correspond, and
Justice Hodges, who remarked that there was a
liar about, struck the man for the costs of four ex-
pensive barristers. Then the trouble started.
Fretty well every she-relative of both parties
was in court, and when the decree was pronounced,
enraged females surrounded the petitioner before
anyone guessed their intentions, and smote him
good and hard with parasols and other artillery.
He was rescued, wondering whether, after all,
there isn’t less danger in being a co-re. than a
petitioner.
* * * *
A baker was charged at the Brunswick
(Melb.) Court, on February 20, with employing
a hand over 21 years of age for less than the pre-
scribed wage, viz., 30s. per week for 60 h«urs.
The evidence showed that the employee had
worked on Monday from 3 a.m. to 7 p.m. with
half-an-hour off for meals ; Tuesday and Wednes-
day, ditto; Thursday and Friday, from 3 a.m.
till 8 p.m. ; then, starting again at 10.30 p.m., he
kept right on till 7 p.m. on Saturday—in all 89
hours in six days ! And his wages were 7s. a
week (something less than a penny an hour) and
“found” —say 20s. a week. There were in
reality three offences —paying an illegal wage,
working an employee illegal hours, and illegally
boarding him on the premises, and the baker de-
clined to go into the box to attempt to excuse
himself. Met the honorary sweaters’ apologists on
the bench remarked pleasantly that they thought
a technical offence had been committed, and fined
baker Chisholm 5s. —a whole 5s. —just as though
a man who had employed a hand 89 hours a week
for 7s. were a millionaire. Some Victorian J.’sP.
would call murder a technical offence.
# * * •
“F.H.”: A dishevelled publican breath-
lessly approached a Ballarat policeman of great
tonnage the other Saturday, beseeching him to
hasten to his hotel to avert bloodshed. On the
way he explained that two young women had
arrived from a picnic, and having
smashed things generally,
and danced amid the
wreckage, were in the
yard braining his missus
with the skittles. Battling
through the crowd, the
rescue party discovered
Mrs. Bung in a corner,
brandishing a broom,
while two girls leaped
deliriously before her
with fingers crooked for
scratching. The appear-
ance of the embodiment
of the law caused a diver-
sion, and one of the
damsels gave an exhibi-
tion of high kicking. The
first effort landed on the
constable’s nose, which
straightway let down a
torrent of gore over his
jumper. There was an-
other flutter, and his
helmet spun over the
fence. The Law then
gripped her above the
elbow, and she screeched
and clawed his face. Girl
No. 2 chipped in, and,
vowing she’d not see her
“cobber” assaulted by a
John, she bit him on the
arm (since festered).
Meanwhile Bung had
thoughtfully gone for a
cab, into which the con-
stable with No. 1 fell like
the fall of Babylon, leav-
ing No. 2 to be gathered
in later. He distressed
the sergeant by arriving
covered with blood, and
dust,, and tempestuous
female. No. 2 was col-
lected an hour later asleep
in a Chinese den, and, no
other conveyance being handy, was driven to
the lock-up in a grocer’s cart. The Chows left their
holes like vermin to come and gloat at the police
court, and when the girls were ordered to pay £6
each for damaging a policeman, &c., the Chinese
Empire made a collection and paid the fines.
* ■* * '»
Victorian authorities are slow to take hold
of the unwelcome babe, hence the number of him
or her found in drains, lagoons and waste places ;
but once it does take hold it is extremely difficult
to make it let go again. A young woman, whose
too previous infant had been taken over by the
Neglected Children’s Department, married baby’s
father, and both father and mother were anxious
to resume possession of baby. But though they
were in a position to maintain the infant they
found it impossible to recover their property, and,
being weary of making applications and inter-
viewing officials, they invoked the law at Bendigo
the other day. The law only promised to see
what could be done, but whatever it saw it failed
to do anything, and at latest advices the
anxious mother was still calling upon Bent to
restore her offspring. It is not that the State
has become warmly attached to the infant; it has
just got the youngster, and is so dunder-headed
that it doesn’t know how to let go.
• • * *
The end of a strike against sixpenny beers
in one Victorian town was wild and woolly. The
publican and his manager exchanged words (all
sizes, but mostly red). At last the manager
tapped the boss on the eye, and then resigned.
But most of the furniture belonged to the mana-
ger ; so he engaged a couple of lorries, packed it
on, and left, taking with him the barmaid and
slaveys. The proprietor, in desperation, flew to
liquor, and appointed the groom and two jockeys
as barmen. That started a wild jamboree, in the
course of which the crowd of local beer-eaters
settled their accounts by getting possession of the
books and tearing out the leaves. The second
night of the picnic, the crowd, delirious with joy
and beer, baptised the publican in his own liquor,
and, when the police stepped m and closed the
house the bar-shelves looked as though a North
Queensland cyclone had got bushed among them.
A WOMAN’S BITTERNESS.
HE : “ How do I look in motoring costume?” SHE: “ Rather improved, I fancy.”
In Sydney, last week, Schweppes sued
Schwartz and Schmellitscheck on some intricate
question about “codds.” This sort of thing
should be broken to the public gently.
* * * *
The Chinese Reform Association, founded
in Adelaide last year, on the visit of Hwang
Cheng, has held its first picnic at S.A. National
Park. The sports winners included such charac-
teristic national names as Gabriel, Brown, and
Flannagan, and the Ladies’ Race was divided by
Mrs. Downes, Miss Moate, and Miss Fordham.
When white citizens and citizenesses eat the
Chow’s lunch and win his silverplated cruet,
it suggests a highly undesirable degree of affa-
bility. Think of white women making sport to
gladden a pigtailed holiday !
* * * *
“ Awood ” casts a reflection :
Have just had a holiday in Sydney. How things have
changed' there ! I enjoyed the mixed bathing at Manly—
it’s all right. One of my pals has become engaged. Tells
me he met his intended in the breakers, and says he
knows what he’s getting for his money—how much is
padfling and how much is girl. I couldn’t get a drink
after eleven and had to go thi.sty on Sunday—didn’t
fancy buying milk shake from the Dago at the Quay. I
knew Tatter was going to win the Summer Cup but
couldn’t get on in Pitt-street, and as I had promised to
take my girl round the ’arbor in the Lady ’Ampden,
couldn’t go out to Randwick, so had to let the good
thing go by.
Herein Adelaide we can still get welshed without go-
ing to the racecourse, and Sunday is the best day at a lot
of the hotels.
Had a tunny experience the other night in Sydney.
Developed a thirst about 11.30 p.m., so pulled up at a pub.
As I was knocking at the side door, a lady came along.
She must have known me because she said “Good-night.”
I couldn’t remember having been introduced to her but
as she looked thirsty I invited her to join me in a
fermented or spirituous refreshment. She had very much
pleasure in accepting. While waiting admission a police-
man turned the corner. My first impulse was to see if I
could clip a couple of seconds off Postle’s record, but the
cop. was too close so I put on a bold front (it was lucky I
had one with me) and asked him if he would quaff with
us. He answered “ Yea, verily.” So we breasted the bar.
# • * •
The “mediums” of Melbourne are forming
a Union, or Defence League, or something, with
the object of raising a fighting fund to protect
them in the practice of what they are pleased to
call their “ religion.” “ Religion ”is good. The
law doesn’t prevent them giving seances, or re-
vealing the future, or talking till further orders
about the journey over the water, the dark man,
and the club woman, and all the rest of it. All it
goes for them over is collecting money in return,
so presumably the collecting of money is the
“ religion ” and the rest of the business a mere
accessory.
* * * *
“ Aged Bachelor ” his tale : —•
For years past, I have spent after-supper moments
smoking the pipe of single cussedness, in a chair, on my
back verandah. The verandah faces a bedroom opposite.
This room was for a long time occupied by a discreet
lady, who always pulled down the window-blind before
stooping to see if there was a cuttle-fish under the bed.
She gave me no trouble. But suddenly she left, and her
room has since been occupied by a garish Venus, who
seems determined to publish the fact that she is a Venus,
and to drive me from in.y seat o’ nights with the blush of
shame thick upon me. She doesn’t pull down the blind
—in fact, she throws up the window.
One day, in my anger, I told the young bobby on our
beat about the matter, and asked him whether there
wasn’t some Act of George 111. (who made a special study
of such matters) under which the lady could be sum-
moned and made to discontinue. He promised to devote
his whole energies to the case. In fact, he said he’d come
in plain clothes that very night, and sit with me, and fix
the criminal with the cold eye of the law.
That night he smoked numerous “ fags” and consumed
a good deal of my whisky. His eyes glowed—his detec-
tive instinct was aroused, I suppose. He came every'
night that week. He mentioned about finding a clue.
He finally asked if I would mind him bringing the
Senior-Constable, as the S.C. was a pretty smart kind of
a chap, and one who did his duty without fear or favor.
The two came along, and the new man was just as enthu-
siastic as the other. He came often, and then proposed
that the Sergeant should see into the matter.
The Sergeant arrived in due course. He was a bearded,
puritanical-featured ancient, who lifted up his eyes in
horror and announced that he’d sift the matter to the
very bottom. He came several times. Finally, he men-
tioned that the Inspector was taking a deep interest in
the case, and would come next night and give his weighty
opinion. I said I was about full up of the law.
Although I succeeded in bringing nearly the whole
division along, the female opposite still flourishes in all
her glory. I want to know whether I could get out of it
if I shot the lady and brained the police. You might
come up some night, Mr. Bulletin, and discuss the
subject.
• * *' *
N.S.W. up-country Mayor to visiting
State Governor: “Yes, your Excellincy, we
appreciate yer visit as ’ighlyas we did that of any
o’ yer distinguished preddycessors. There was
’Ampden ; it ’appened I were Mayor then same
as now. ’E were a noble gintleman; we called that
road over there leadin’ to the pound ‘ ’Ampden
Avynoo ’ arter ’im. An’ Beetchim ; ’e were
arlright, I believe ’e’s ’ad a family since. Well,
well, who’d a thought it! But ye can niver tell!
Anyway, ’e were a right kindly, civil-spoken
gentleman ; one as ye’d take to at first ’and. We
were thinkin’ o’ calling something ’ere arter ’im,
but ’e left sudden, or I went out o’ the chair, or
somewhat, an’ yer Excellincy tuck ’is place. We’ll
’ave ter think o’ calling something after ye. But
in the meantime we express our appreciation as
warmly as for any o’ the others, an’ while ye stay
ye can count on our loyalty to yerself an’ to our
King, ’is Crown an’ person. Hip, ’ip, ooray ! ”
THE SAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We talked of science in a lighted room,
While outside there was rain and wind and gloom.
You spoke with fluent tongue of many things,
Showed me the earnestness which learning brings,
Modest and yet excelling everywhere,
While I mused, “ Have soft fingers through his hair
Ever passed lovingly, and in their play
Sought out amongst the brown a hint of grey ? ”
Great was my privilege ; in gracious mood
You saw in me a mind that understood.
Only a mind 1 The rest was hut a part,
A sort of make-weight! Body, hands, and heart!
Favored was I indeed 1 And welcome there
While you spoke on, to be the listener.
We talked of science in a lighted room,
While outside there was wind and rain and gloom.
You talked, 1 listened, wondering the while
Had some rare woman ever made you smile,
Forgetting wisdom for a little space,
To be just a fond man and kiss her face !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
04 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
English Machinery, vi*.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers
Nloholson & Sons English Mills to grind everything. Bteel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description. *
ROBEY’S
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia :
. . Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Feb., 1901 £86,628 8 p.c. = £60,000 £25,000 £1,023,818
95,681 8 ~ „ 60,000 35,000 1,024,499
Feb., 1902 96,714 8 ~ „ 60,000 25,000 1,036,213
U F'> 1902 93,931 8 „ „ 60,000 60,000 1,020,144
109 >649 8 „ „ 60,000 60,000 1,019,793
*>*. 1908 126,330 10 ~ „ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., 1904 112,182 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
115,830 10 „ ~ 76,000 26,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1906 100,374 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
£ u K-> , lbbs 100,767 10 „,, 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1906 100,879 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,114,166
Aug:., 1906 162,251 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 V15M06
With the bonus at the rate of 4 p.c. p.a. now added to
the dividend for the half year, this bank gets back to the
rate paid just before the crisis of 1891-2. Since that date,
the policy has been one of evident caution. While the
Hank of New South Wales brought its dividend
down after the trouble no lower than 9 p.c., the
Union came back to 5 p.c., and kept it at
that point for four years, and the rise to 10 p.c. was a
very gradual process. Meantime there is no doubt
that a very large amount of cleaning-up has been in pro-
gress inside : the policy in that respect is pretty well
indicated by the drastic way in which the premises
account has been treated, as shown in the “ written-off ”
column in the above table. The result of all this seems
to be that now, when Australian banking profits have
notoriously become very good indeed, the Union feels
itself justified in setting out something like its real
figures, instead of stuffing large sums of current profit
away into holes that gape in the secret accounts. As
to the future—but this comparison had better come
first:—
XT . Aug., 1905. Aug., 1906.
".of®" •• •• £459,235 £520,612 Inc. £61,377
Bills, &c 2,013,640 1,867,164 Dec. 146 476
Deposits.. .. 16,988,632 18,176,249 Inc. 1,187,617
Liquid Assets .. 8,872,464 9,401,028 Inc. 528,564
Advances .. 12,600,929 13,283,680 Inc. 682 751
Premises, &c. .. 661,390 635,723 Dec. 25,667
The proportion of liquid assets to total public liabilities
is still no less than 45J per cent. Certainly, and
especially without a division of deposits into fixed and
free, it is impossible for anybody outside head-office to
know precisely what proportion of liquid assets ought to
be maintained. But 45£ per cent, seems an unnecessarily'
high rate ; the Union, with its present resources, could
evidently undertake a good deal more Australian financ-
ing if there were the Protected industries here
to finance. The financier wants Protection just
as much as the workman, and, though he doesn’t
always know what is the matter, he won’t
risk his money without it. There no doubt will
be an improvement in Australia in that way ; but, as
a set-off, there must be an end to the fine money-lending
conditions which have lately prevailed in London, and
which have helped the Australian banks to also collect
fine profits on their exchange business. The total profits
for the half-year under notice were at the rate of £ll
12s. lid. per cent, per annum ; for the corresponding
half of 1905 they were only £7 16s. Id. per cent.
It is practically certain that, though the half-
year’s dividend of the Union Bank was at the rate of
14 per cent., that rate will not be maintained ; the idea
seems to be to pay 12 per cent. The bonus paid for the
past half-year is to be taken as really' applying to the
whole year, which would bring the average for the two
terms down to the 12 per cent., and an effort will no
doubt be made to maintain that. Bej'ond that point
there is a strong feeling that bank profits should nor go ;
ip fact, among Australasian banks, only the Bank of
Australasia, the Union, and the National of New
Zealand (all three with London head offices, by the way)
have gone past 10 per cent. Larger profits may be
distributed ; but to get the larger profits it is most likely
that shareholders will have to put up more capital. In
other words, they will put up money which, even if they
borrow it, will cost them, say, 5 per cent., and they will
get 10 per cent, for it. It is quite true that if directors
and manager fly for enough off their heads nothing can
stop them smashing a bank ; but obviously the bigger the
proportion of shareholders’ capital and reserves compared
with the shrinkable assets, the better the security for the
depositor and qther creditor. If more profit must be dis-
tributed this idea of increasing capital instead of putting
up the dividend beyond 10 per cent, is therefore one to be
encouraged.
*■ *• • •.
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria
Losses on
Property, &c.,
Loss on less Profit on Total
Business. Debentures. Loss. Deficit
Dec., 1901 .. £1792 £169 £1,961 £6 297
Net Profit. ’
June, 1902 .. 1023 7,149 171
Loss.
Dec., 1902 .. 1217 3,426 4,643 4 814
Profit.
June, 1903 .. 60 700 640 5 454
Dec., 1903 .. 277 6,190 6,913 11367
June, 1904.. 960 3,890 2,930 14,297
Dec., 1904 .. 276 10,278 10,003 24 300
June, 1905 .. 1271 7,313 6,042 30 342
Dec., 1905 .. 1423 2,061 638 30’980
June, 1906.. 1644 6,713 4,069 35’.049
Dec., 1906 .. 1610 3,718 2,108 37,157
In 1896 the shareholders’ capital was £250,000, in £1
shares, the debentures £900,000, and the interest due on
debentures £20,250. The situation being serious the
debenture-holders stayed their hand on condition’that
shareholders raised £200,000 more capital within four
years. The attempt to get the money in was painful—
naturally, for in the first half of 1896 a trading loss of
£9696 was shown. So many shares were forfeited that
on those that remained alive a further call had to be
made, and, after a re-valuation of assets in 1900 £1 3s.
was written off each share. Of the original ’250 000
shares, only 152,434 now remain alive. The movement of
capital in the following table therefore doesn’t show the
full extent of the tragedy :
Dec., Dec., June, Dec..
1900. 1905. 1906. 1906
Capital .. £322,610 £275,034 £275,431 £275 840
Debentures .. 711,725 497,323 496,408 479’604
Other debts .. 1,844 907 1,232 3’435
Advances .. 604,795 389,945 383,575 369’506
Properties .. 317,432 300,667 284,106 278’162
Cash, &c. .. 29,392 51,672 70,341 74^054
In the past 12 months foreclosed properties have been
reduced from £253,011 to £229,880 (that is, by £23 131)
and debentures have been reduced by £17,719, and the
two sets of transactions between them have involved a
loss of £9431. As the debentures were no doubt bought
at a discount, this looks pretty unsatisfactory • but
advances have decreased by £20,439 net, and there’ may
have been foreclosures there also, consequently the
sales of properties may have considerably exceeded
£23,131. The situation is not clear; but two very
definite facts are the long procession of losses on sales
and the rapid increase of the deficit. In four years
advances and foreclosed properties have been reduced by
£161,478, and the deficit has increased by £32,343 • and
there still remain £599,385 of advances and foreclosed
properties on hand. At that rate of going, there is a
deficit of over £150,000 in view before the sheet is clean.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Dividends Added Nominal
on Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. actually paid. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901.. £16,701 12* p.c. = £3,750 £12,951 £80,695
June, 1902.. 16,015 9£ „ „ 3,000 13,015 93,710
Dec., 1902.. 15,090 13j „ „ 4,500 10,590 104,300
June, 1903.. 10,501 17} „ „ 6,000 4,501 108,801
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 „ „ 3,000 4,885 113,686
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 „ „ 4,500 8,381 122,067
(£47,067 Reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.)
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.c. = 3,750 9,624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ „ 3,750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 „ „ 3,750 5,017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,674 30 „ „ 11,250 2,424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 „ „ 3,750 5,437 29,519
Including the capitalised reserves as capital, the dividend
is at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum. The fixed assets
are in at cost to the co. as reconstructed in 1904 ; provi-
sion to cover depreciation is therefore made by way of
reserves, so that neither are the profits shown above true,
profits nor the reserves true reserves. The steamships,
properties, works, &c., stand in the hooks at £175,517 ;
an annual 5 p.c. on that means £4387 per half-year. If
we strike off this 5 p.c. for depreciation, the half-year’s
net profit would thus he £5BOO. In some other respects
the position has recently been as follows:
Dec., ’O4. Dec., ’O5. Dec., ’O6.
Debts to public .. ..£12,796 £16,860 £29,316
Ships, properties, &c. .. 127,118 131,173 176,356
Investments .. .. 21,319 24,319 5,841
Cash, stocks, &c 27,734 36,876 30,489
Plainly the Melbourne Co. isn’t yet among those shipping
cos. that find it convenient to hide away portion of their;
profits. Adopting the system it does, it can’t silently
and secretly write its ships down to next-to-nothing out
of earnings. They will, of course, have to be severely
written down some day ; and then a large slice of the
reserves will disappear as they disappeared two years and
a half ago. Meantime, however, even though the whole
of the reserves are unreal, and are only waiting to be
written off, the co. can’t complain ; 10 p.c. on the actual
investment, with an occasional 5 p.c. bonus, is very com-
forting.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.S.W.): —
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £3092 6 p.c. = £3OOO £92 £8,793
June, 1905 .. 2960 6 „ „ 3000 8,753
Dec., 1905 .. 3385 6 „ „ 3000 385 9,138
June, 1906 .. 3053 6 „ „ 3000 53 9,191
Dec., 1906 .. 5128 6 „ „ 3000 2128 11,319
This co.’s reserves consist of Boiler Replacement Fund,
£7OOO ; Repairs Fund, £3OOO ; and some odds and ends.
Now these reserves don’t look too good on the surface :
they might he merely a set-off against actual deprecia-
tion. But follow the first line in this comparison:—
Dec., Dec., June, Dec.,
1904. 1905. 1906. 1906.
Ship property .. £41,300 £39,080 £40,595 -j
Freeholds, &c. .. 7,175 5,855 5,308 4’ 122
Plant .. .. 2,730 2,881 3,069 3,503
Liquid assets .. 66,157 70,265 67,551 52,109
Debts to public .. 5,568 5,943 4,332 4,778
There are two items bracketed against ship property for
the past term : the £23,663 is “ new steamer account.”
The comparison shows that from time to time consider-
able amounts of profit have been used to write down ship
property ; assuming that none of this property was sold
during the last half-year, then the reduction out of un-
disclosed profit was £4895. Repairs are also charged
direct to profit and loss (it would be shocking if they
weren’t, yet shocking things often happen); the
directors’ report says the outlay has been less
than usual lately, and that no doubt accounts
for some at least of the extra profit. Probably, there-
fore, the figures for the half-year can’t be taken as
normal; on the other hand, it looks as though, in general,
most ample (and perhaps rather more than ample)deduc-
tions have been made from profits to cover wear and tear
and provide for contingencies. The financial position is
still strong, in spite of the recent purchase, and the co. is
well placed to meet any expansion of trade that may be
waiting for it.
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney)
Net Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £990 10p.c.=£648 £342 £4,741
Dec., 1901.. 494 10 „ „ 648 4,587
June, 1902.. 1031 10 „ „ 648 383 4,970
Profit on Sale of Forfeited Shares 367 5,337
Dec., 1902.. 272 7£ p.c. = 616 4,993
Profit on Sale of Forfeited Shares 247 5,240
June, 1903.. 309 5 p.c. = 410 5,139
Dec., 1903.. 643 5 „ „ 410 233 5,372
June, 1904.. 753 7J „ „ 616 £4675 834
Dec., 1904.. 972 7| „ „ 616 125 1,065
June, 1905.. 932 7| „ „ 616 316 1,381
Dec., 1905.. 958 7| „,, 616 342 1,723
Premiums on new Shares 3294 5,017
June, 1906.. 1726 10 p.c. = 1419 307 5,324
Premiums on new Shares 5000 10,324
Dec., 1906.. 1046 10 p.c. = 2000 9,370
This looks like the situation, though there is a possible
doubt about it, because it is not made plain whether
10,000 shares issued during the half-year at a premium
of 10s. rank for dividend this time. Presumably
they do. But whether they do or don’t the dividend
is excessive. The accounts are badly presented. The
profit and loss account shows on the revenue side gross
receipts from some services and net profit from others, so
that the “ total expenses” alleged to be shown on the
other side are, it seems, not the total expenses at all.
Moreover, these alleged total expenses are lumped with
“ depreciation of steamers, &c.” It is most important to
know what depreciation is allowed for on a line of this
sort. It will be noted that, though in years past deprecia-
tion was supposed to have been allowed for, eventually a
large sum had to be written off the reserves. That showed
that they were not reserves at all, and that for some time
net profits had been over-stated. The new issue of shares
was made in order to rid the co. of some of its
debt; it still, however, has liabilities of £26,363, mostly
owing on mortgages and overdrafts. The chances are
that, later on, it will try to reduce this by another issue
of shares ; its powers extend to another 10,000. If it is
with any such action in view that a dividend has been
recommended by the directors, amounting to nearly twice
the total of the net profit, then the directors need to be
spoken to very severely. The co. is still launching out;
it has a new steamer under contract. That means more
debt. The co. may pull through ; for Sydney Harbor
seems at present to be the best goldfield in Australia.
But the financial methods of the co. don’t, up to now
inspire confidence.
• * • *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney),
which forlnany years paid 10 per cent., then dwindled
down to 6 per cent, in 1900, and since then has had this
experience:—
Added Nominal
Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1901 £4510 Nil £4510 £36,902
Dec., 1901 4541 Nil 4541 41 443
June, 1902 5340 Nil 5340 46’783
Dec., 1902 727 Nil £2500 45’0i0
June, 1903 6906 Nil 2000 3906 48!916
Dec., 1903 6609 Nil 500 6109 55,025
June, 1904 6311 Nil 6311 61,336
Written off Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 16,427
Dec., 1904 6011 6 p.c. =£5503 508 16,935
June, 1905 3977 Nil 1308 2669 19,604
Dec., 1905 7127 8 p.c. = 3669 3458 23,062
June, 1906 6999 8 „ „ 3669 3330 26 392
Dec., 1906 7897 8 „ „ 3669 4228 30,620
But the profits shown here are not true profits, nor are
the reserves true reserves ; for most of the provision for
wear and tear is included in the reserves. Something is
charged direct to profit and loss, but it is apparently not
very much. “ Freeholds, leaseholds, property, plant,
&c.,” are lumped at £93,220; from this item £961 has
been deducted to represent “ sales and amounts written
off during year.” What is a fair thing to write off or
provide for depreciation of a composite item of this size
it is impossible to say. Taking the past 18 months’
history, 8 p.c. dividend has been paid, and there has
remained £11,016 over, and that is equal to 7| p.c. per
annum on the whole of the assets mentioned. But, in
addition, something unspecified has been charged to pro-
fit and loss direct. The cash position may give some idea
of the amount; and that position has moved in this way :
Liabili- Liquid
ties. Assets. Surplus.
June, 1905 .. £25,070 £40,194 £15,124
Dec., 1905 .. 22,263 43,557 21,294
June, 1906 .. 19,206 46,816 27,610
Dec., 1906 .. 18,866 51,665 32,799
From the last entry above deduct £3669 to represent the
past half-year’s dividend ; that leaves £29,130. The dif-
ference between that and £15,124, or £14,006, is the im-
provement in the cash position in 18 months, after paying
a regular 8 per cent, dividend. As the improvement in
apparent reserves in the same period was only £11,016,
this shows that the co. either sold some of its assets or
wrote about £3OOO off profits to partly provide for depre-
ciation. No doubt the wear-and-tear in a concern of this
sort is very heavy ; but, one way and another, the co. is
making very substantial provision for it, and, better
still, it has the provision in cash.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.),
from the time when £60,750 capital was written off, of
which £7500 went to wipe out goodwill, and £1435 was
left over as a new start in reserves:—
To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902 .. £4981 6 per cent. = £3402 £1579 £3014
Dec., 1902 .. 3788 6 „ „ 3402 386 3400
June, 1903.. 4786 6 „ „ 3402 1384 4784
Dec., 1903.. 3408 6 „ „ 3402 6 4790
June, 1904.. 3917 6 „ „ 3402 515 5305
Dec,, 1904.. 3920 6 „ ~ 3402 518 5823
June, 1905.. 4606 6 „ „ 3402 1204 7027
Dec., 1905 .. 3472 6 ~ ~ 3402 70 7097
June, 1906.. 4266 6 „ „ 3402 864 7961
Dec., 1906 .. 3497 6 „ „ 3402 95 8056.
Six months ago there was an item, “Land account,
£2917,” which looked like a reserve ; it appeared to be
the expected profit on uncompleted sales of the
co.’s extensive freehold. It has now dropped out, and
the hole it fell through isn’t visible. It may have been
used to write down the value of other freeholds and pro-
perties ; but what became of it should have been men-
tioned, anyway. The capital is £lOB,OOO ; compared with
that, the debenture and other debt is very heavy. The
debt is, however, being reduced a little, partly by the
sale of the Cascade estate before mentioned. As the
estate is bringing in no rent worth mentioning and the
debt is costing a lot of money (the interest would pay
another 6 per cent, on the co.’s capital), it seems good
business to go on swapping estate for debt; for, with an
erratic business like brewing to depend upon, and a
large sum locked up in an estate that is bringing in
nothing, shareholders can’t feel comfortable with a
debenture and mortgage debt of the size shown here-
under hanging over their heads :
Dec., Dec., Dec.,
1902. 1905. 1906.
Mortgages, debentures, &c. .. £116,669 £124,606 £121,303
Freehold premises .. .. 180,482 186,946 181,063
Stock and plant 35,412 38,258 35,041
Sundry debtors, &c., less trade
debts 15,578 18,605 24,874
Gross profit on goods .. .. 10,770 12,050 13,827
Rents 3,712 3,775 3,848
Management, discounts, &c... 8,236 9,182 11,113
There is no hint of anything being written off profits to
provide for depreciation of assets ; the only charge of
the sort is for repairs to houses, yet even a patched
house isn’t as good as the original house. If the reserves
have to provide for depreciation, then of course they are
not real reserves, and the profit shown isn’t real
profit. The directors offer a sort of apology for pay-
ing 6 per cent, when it absorbs all but £95
of the profit, mentioning that “brewing materials are
still abnormally high”—a hint that profits for the moment
are abnormally low. There is no surety, however, of
a fall in price ; prices all round are high, and there is a
good deal of reason to expect that generally speaking
they will keep high. If they don’t, Tasmanian mining
and agriculture won’t have such a good time as they are
having now, and the sales of the co.’s beer—“ the largest
recorded for any June-December six months”—will be
liable to drop off. It is no use for the co. to persuade it-
self that the future is going to be all in its favor; the
only way to make sure, especially if it isn’t providing
enough in some invisible way out of profits to cover wear
and tear and decay, is to cut down the dividend a bit.
* * * *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 ..£5171 £8 17 9 p.c. = £4620 £551 £4339
June, 1902 .. 5062 817 9„ ~ 4620 442 4781
Dec., 1902 .. 5081 817 9„ „ 4620 461 5242
June, 1903 .. 5133 817 9,, „ 4620 513 5755
Dec., 1903 .. 5132 817 9 ~ „ 4620 512 6267
June, 1904 .. 5032 817 9„ „ 4620 412 6679
Dec., 1904 .. 5192 817 9„ „ 4620 572 7251
June, 1905 .. 5075 817 9,, ~ 4620 455 7706
Dec., 1905 .. 5138 817 9 ~ ~ 4620 518 8224
June, 1906 .. 5083 817 9„ „ 4620 463 8687
Dec., 1906 .. 5242 817 9 ~ ~ 4620 622 9309
This co., which will be 50 years old next month, supplies
both gas and electric light, but the electric-light branch
of the business can’t be taken seriously. It is managed
this way. The Gas Co. lends its electric-light department
£16,000 ; then it charges interest on the loan, and lumps
the interest with “ alterations, depreciation, wear
and tear,” and so it always manages to show that
electric lighting isn’t a paying business in Hobart—which
is probably what the Gas Co. runs a small electric light
department for. It would be interesting to know what
depreciation is allowed ; pretty substantial, appa-
rently, for “interest, alterations, depreciation, wear and
tear,” during the past six months, consumed £1442,
while wages, fuel, oil, and all other costs totalled only
£1230. Moreover, what becomes of the depreciation re-
serve? It isn’t shown, because the Gas Co. treats the
electric light as an outside investment, and so doesn’t
publish an electric light balance-sheet. It just goes on
including the book-keeping item, “ Electric light depart-
ment, £16,000,” among the assets, though the electric
light department, as a matter of fact, might by this time
consist of property worth £30,000. If something is taken
out of profits regularly to provide for depreciation and
wear and tear, and not put back into plant (as apparently
it isn’t), then it is in money, and is presumably earning
something ; and, in that case, why isn’t the electric light
department credited with interest ? The whole business
needs ripping open ; but apparently Hobart is too tired
to rip. Though the source of it can’t be traced, appa-
rently something is provided out of profits to write down
the fixed assets in the gas department; anyhow, they
stood at £90,645 in June, and were down to £89,967 in
December.
* * * *
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves
Dec., 1901 ..£1159 4 per cent. =£loso £lO9 £5671
June, 1902 .. 1147 4 „ „ 1050 97 5768
Dec., 1902 .. 1111 4 „ ~ 1050 61 5829
June, 1903 .. 1328 4 „ ~ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903 1584 4 „ •„ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904 .. 1403 4 „ ~ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904 .. 1655 4 ~ ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905 .. 815 4 ~ ~ 1050 7364
Dec., 1905 .. 1147 4 ~ „ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906 .. 1134 4 ~ ~ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906 .. 1550 4 ~ ~ 1050 500 8045
Nothing is regularly written off for depreciation ; and
for the past half-year nothing has come off the contin-
gent fund—apparently a sort of reserve for extraordinary
repairs and renewals. The increase in profits shown
above is partly due to that, partly to an increased con-
sumption of gas. But increased consumption ought to
take place, for in 12 months capital sunk in fixed assets
has increased from £81,315 to £82,485. Most of
this has been provided by debentures, which have
grown from £35,205 to £36,143. Shareholders need
to watch this increase in debentures ; they have grown
£2738 in two years. This money is going into plant; and
it is the shareholders’ capital, and not the debenture
capital, that has to stand the racket of depreciation of
assets, &c., bought with this money. The debenture-
holder gets apparently 5 per cent., and presumably has a
mortgage over everything; the shareholder is getting
only 4 per oent., and has to give a guarantee, to the
extent of all he has put into the business, that the
debenture-holder will get his capital back. It looks as
though the shareholder is getting left.
* * * #
The Brighton Gas Co. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
Dee., 1901 £1686 5 p.c. = £lll7 £391 £l7B £2706
June, 1902 1462 5 „ „ 1117 465 2586
Dec., 1902 1524 5 ~ ~ 1117 324 83 2669
June, 1903 1525 5 ~ ~ 1117 407 1 2670
Dec., 1903 1769 5 „ „ 1117 242 410 3080
June, 1904 1831 6 „ ~ 1340 343 148 3228
Dec., 1904 2097 6 ~ ~ 1340 352 405 3633
June, 1905 2172 6 „ „ 1340 275’ 557 4190
Dec:, 1905 2428 6 ~ ~ 1340 269 819 5009
June, 1906 2285 6 ~ ~ 1340 386 559 5568
Dec., 1906 2328 6 „ „ 1340 439 549 6117
The amounts shown as written off include sums spent on
renewals ; these are not the best sort of provision for
depreciation, and many companies charge the item direct
to either working or profit and loss account. The other
amounts written off are for repairs, &c., of meters. Appar-
ently, nothing is charged direct to profit and loss to cover
general wear and tear, so that everything in the way of
extraordinary repairs and renewals will have to come out
of reserves. In other words, the reserves are more or
less a mere set-off agaihst depreciation. Unless exten-
sions of the plant have been set down. as “ repairs and
renewals,” which is extremely unlikely, there is nothing
in the way of a hidden reserve either. Altogether, the
very best complexion is put upon things by the published
accounts.
* * * *
Tamwobth Gas Co. (Tamworth, N.S.W.)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
June, 1902 £692 10 p.c. =£soo £192 £1766
Dec., 1902 699 10 „ „ 500 199 1965
June, 1903 623 10 „ „ 500 £lOO 23 1988
Dec., 1903 571 10 „ „ 646 25 2013
June, 1904 642 10 ~ „ 546 100 . 2009
Dec., 1904 631 10 „ „ 646 85 2094
June, 1905 635 10 ~ „ 546 89 2183
Dec., 1905 597 10 ~ „ 646 51 2234
June, 1906 595 10 „ „ 546 49 2283
Dec., 1906 660 10 „ 546 100 14 2297
It is clear that nothing whatever is written off buildings,
plant, implements, mains, etc., out of profits; all that
may possibly be done is that some small amounts may
be spent on extensions and charged to revenue. The
amount shown as written off this half-year is for depre-
ciation of meters. It is extremely doubtful whether the
dividend is being earned ; if it isn’t, it is being paid out
of capital. In other words, it is being paid by neglecting
to provide for the renewal of assets which are wearing
out. Twelve months ago, the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities was £345 ; it is now only £ls9—before
paying dividend in each case. The position altogether
looks unsatisfactory.
• * * •
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and Road
Metal Co. (Sydney):—
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904... 7 p.c. =£952 £2lBB
June, 1905 .. £944 6J „ „ 850“ ' £94 2282
Dec., 1905.. 612 Nil 612 2894
June, 1906 .. 706 3f „ „ 425 £225 56 2950
Dec., 1906 .. 1050 3| „ „ 425 275 350 3300
The capital is £27,200 in 34,000 shares paid to 16s. The
principal asset is “Emu Plains quarry land and siding,
£23,367.” Two years ago this stood at £23,502.
Though a quarry is obviously a wasting asset, it is not
clear whether its value is being systematically written
down out of profit. Unless that is done, or unless the
reserves are reckoned as a set-off to depreciation, the
dividends must be reckoned as, to some small extent,
distributions of assets. The co. has an overdraft of
£5911; 12 months ago this liability stood at £7413. That
reduction is the most satisfactory feature of the accounts.
* » * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Written duce De-
Profits. Dividends. off. Deficit, ficit.
June, 1902.. £573 5 p.c. = £437 £lO7 £29 £14,620
Dec., 1902.. 518 5 „ „ 437 44 37 14,583
June, 1903.. 344 5 „ „ 437 14,676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5 „ „ 437 14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profits.
Dec., 1904.. 120 Nil 120 14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c.= 437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 14,701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil 16,341
Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,838
“ It is proposed,” says the directors’ report, “ that this
sum shall be carried forward, but from present date
shareholders may look forward to the regular resumption
of dividends.” The capital is £17,500, of which £15,000
is represented by a paper asset, “Goodwill, &c.” Of
course, this has been discarded in the foregoing. No
attempt has been made to get rid of this paper, and ap-
parently no attempt is to be made. Nothing is provided
out of profits, either, for wear-and-tear ; and additions
to furniture are charged up to capital account. The
goodwill depends upon a lease ; as the lease is running
nearer its end year by year, it is becoming of less value,
yet not a penny is being laid by against it. When it runs
out, the capital can be written off as lost. Meantime,
profits are shown and paid away—at the expense of
capital, of course. Among public companies, Aarons’
Exchange is one of the “ awful examples.” Fortunately,
the market long ago summed it up, and share :, l’Os. paid,
are quoted sellers 2s.
* * » •
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.); —
Bonus to Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves.
1900 £2460 10 p.c. = £92 12 p.c. = £685 £4Ol £3771
1901 2370 10 „ „ 94 15 „ „ 1010 307 4730
1902 3482 10 „ „ 94 25 „ „ 2313 390 5415
1903 2609 10 „ ~ 95 25 „ „ 2000 368 6561
1994 2898 10 „ „ 98 30 „ „ 2525 295 6541
1905 4073 10 „ „ 98 33| „ „ 3130 342 6044
1906 4929 10 „ „ 99 35 „ „ 3862 373 6639
On a capital of only £986 this co-operative co. has a turn-
over of probably £200,000 a year, and has to stand the
racket of bad debts in a business of that size. As at the
best of times liiere is a total of over £lO,OOO outstand-
ing, this is a large risk ; and the co-operator (who is
usually greedier for bonuses than he ought to be) should
paste up the risk in front of him whenever he feels in-
clined to growl at the growth of the reserves. And,
anyhow, they are his reserves. The bonus to suppliers
is calculated on the amount of commissions paid ; no less
than 35 per cent, of them will be returned for this past
year, thanks to the high prices and the large supplies,
which haven’t involved a corresponding increase in ex-
penses. The total net commission is cut up in this way
Expenses £5350 = 60 - 28 per cent.
Bad debts .. ... 263 „ 2 "48 ~
Depreciation .. .. 373 ~ 3‘50 ~
Income tax .. .. 97 ~ o'9l ~
Suppliers’ bonus .. 3862 ~ 36‘30 „
Dividend 99 „ 0 - 93 „
Reserve funds .. .. 596 „ 5’60 „
Total £10,640 100 ‘OO per cent.
The commissions are taken to include a small amount of
“ surplus earnings at factories." It is a list to make the
co-operative supplier feel pleased with himself. Still
that sort of list is only possible by sticking to the co-
operative co. in bad times as well as good. The co-opera-
tive co. could afford to do a lot betVr for its clients in
bad times if, like Private Enterprise/ it hung on to the
£3862 in good times.
* • • •
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co.
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1903 £21,296 £lO,OOO £4,002 £51,345
June, 1904 41,283 20,000 20,300 62,328
Dec., 1904 51,119 20,000 6,937 76,510
June, 1905 53,596 35,000 6,205 88,901
Dec., 3905 71,149 35,000 19,081 105,969
June, 1906 67,535 60,000 7,488 106,016
Dec., 1906 99,976 60,000 18,975 127,017
As far as can be traced, no payments have been made to
the co. during the past half-year on account of the tail-
ings sold to the Zinc Corporation in 1905. In the latter
half of 1905 about £17,000 was received on that acoount
—a payment for 100,000 tons at the rate of 3s. 6d. per ton,
less commission. Bulk deliveries at the rate of 200,000


Strength and
Security
are more necessary in your Executor
than in your Bankers, for you can
supervise your Bankers, and, if necessary,
change them; BUT YOU WILL NOT
BE ABLE TO CONTROL YOUR
EXECUTOR, .NOR REMOVE YOUR
ESTATE FROM HIS HANDS.
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
offers far greater strength and security
than any individual Trustee, and does the
work better and at less cost.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
2, 4 & 6 SPRING ST.,
SYDNEY.
M.R.: Can’t trace any Balmain Antimony
Smelting 00.
• * * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
■* * * •
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
The Dorset Bucket Dredging Company is
building a complete plant for its claim in Tasmania.
The dredge is to be capable of treating 3000 cubic yards
of material per day ; the buckets have each a capacity of
6 cubic feet; and the tables have a surface of over 2880
square feet; the ladder is 66 feet in length between the
centres, and can dredge to a depth of 38 feet; al7 inch
centrifugal pump supplies the water to treat the material
in the sluice boxes, and in addition there is a 6 inch high
lift pump to operate on the nozzles : the material is dis-
integrated in a revolving screen, which is 33 feet long and
5 feet in diameter ; the machinery is supplied by power
from two 60 H.H.P. horizontal engines which are supplied
by steam from an externally fired multitubular boiler,
working under a pressure of 1501bs. to the square inch.
The p ntoons to carry the plant are constructed of
Tasmanian hardwood, and are 124 feet long by 40 feet
wide. To facilitate working at night the dredge is fitted
up with an efficient electric lighting plant. The whole
plant is the largest of its kind in the Southern Hemis-
phere, and is in the main being constructed by the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, of South Melbourne, under
the supervision of Robert McLintock, Engineer, of
Dunedin.* M
• * * *
The Irish Investor (London), writes regarding
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited, in
its September, 1906, issue, as follows An, intending
assurant who realises that the stability of a company
depends to an exceedingly great extent on its care in only
accepting risks that come under the heading of good lives
should feel every confidence in the Colonial Mutual on
this score.”*
* * * *
Cobar. —Dor reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. — For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » »
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* » * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
« * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* • * •
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, ref rigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriotion of cast or wrought iron work.*
-* * * *
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* ■* * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide. *
• * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
tons a year at the same price are to start from March this
year. There are now, it is estimated, 925,000 tons of
tailings ; 700,000 tons of these have been sold at the figure
mentioned, and the balance, being part of nine years’
output, goes to the same company on a sliding scale
governed by metal prices. The amount written off
includes the entire balance of the co6t lof the new shaft,
which had been charged up to capital. The allowance
for depreciation is therefore abnormal. Deducting from
gross profit the same normal amount as was written off
in the previous half-year, the net profit was equal to
about 18s. per ton of ore. The ore reserves are estimated
at 2,000,000 tons. If the same profit could be maintained,
this would make the mine worth £1,800,000, or £9 a
share, independent of tailings and present liquid assets
(£119,572 net) and any future developments. But the
metal markets have to be considered. Lead last half-year
averaged £lB 7s. 2d. per ton, and silver 2s. lOd. par oz.
The concentrates contained 11,588 tons of lead and
293,8280 z. silver. Take, then, these variations on an out-
put of that size :
Lead. Silver. Gross Profit.
£lB 7 2 2s. lOd. £99,976
15 7 2 2s. lOd. 65,212
15 7 2 2s. 6d. 60,315
13 0 0 2s. 6d. 32,987
For the past six years lead has averaged under £l2 ; so
the last line seems to be liberal enough. Practically that
reduces the profits to one-third, and the value of the re-
serves from £1,800,000 to £600,000. Add 50 per cent, for
developments and £250,000 for tailings and liquid assets,
and you get £1.150,000, or, all round, £5 15s. per share.
Present prices are about £8 for paid and £7 Us. for con-
tributing shares. There is no rule for valuing an
industrial-metal mine. Calculations like the foregoing
are admittedly only good enough t o serve as a datum point
from which to make allowances. They enable one, never-
theless, to easily ascertain what present prices involve.
Yet, considering the quality of the ore at the lower levels
and the extreme probability of very large ore-develop-
ments outside present estimates, there is little doubt
the South is valued by the market as low as any
Broken Hill mine. That, however, doesn’t affect the
opinion that recently the whole basis for valuing Barrier
propositions has been much too high.
The history of the North Broken Hill since the
present reconstructed co. took it over:—
Written Re-
Profit. Dividends. Off. serves.
July, 1905.. £8,482
Dec 1905-f £33 ’ 753 15 p.c. —£9,750 £10,242\ „„ n9S
lauo \ p remiums onnew shares £9,785/ 32 > 028
June, 1906.. 15,765 40 p.c. = 26,000 4,700 17,093
Dec 1906/ 50 ’ 692 25 ” » 17 > 500 6 ,986) fi3 7Qa
nee., * auo | p r e m iums on new Shares £19,500/ b3 > 799
Instead of being put to a reserve fund, the premium on
new shares has been taken into profit and loss account.
That is a bad system. The premiums ought to be
regarded as reserve capital, and not included in the
fund out of which dividends are paid. Both in the
past and the preceding half-year the revenue
includes £6250 from sale of tailings to the De Bavay zinc
people. Including that, the net profit for the half-year
was £44,706. The quantity of ore milled was 44,576 tons,
so that the net profit per ton was a shade under £1 os. Id.
per ton. Above the 800 ft. level (no work of consequence
has been done below that point) the ore reserves are
estimated at 492,000 tons—say £492,000. Add 50 per
cent., or £246,000, for developments and £71,227 for
liquid assets ; total £809,227, or £5 15s. 6d. per share.
But lead averaged about £lB 7s. last half-year and silver
2s. lOd. fine. The lead contents of the concentrates were
5610 tons ; £5 per ton off that, reducing the price to
£l3 7s. (which is far above the average), would reduce the
net profit to £16,656, or 7s. 6d. per ton of ore ; and on
that basis the reserves, plus 50 per cent, for develop-
ments, plus present liquid assets, would be worth
£347,977, or £2 9s. 6d. per share. The present market
value is approximately £4.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, is waking up to the
uncertainty of Harvey shaft, which a further subsidence
anywhere near the Central boundary would drag into the
embrace of the creep. It is probable that very soon
steps will be taken to put down a new shaft at a safe
distance from the disturbed area. This will cost £50,000
at least.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Central (Sulphide Corpora-
tion) has got well over the first instalment of its troubles
with its big but compact mill. Of course, everything
isn’t yet running like a sewing machine, but it is turning
out a concentrate that doesn’t blush in the company of
other concentrates. When the first four sections of the
new mill are going, it is probable that the emergency
mill (now doing about 1000 tons a week) will be closed.
» * » •
The New White Leads, south of Broken Hill,
is one of the “ hope deferred” mines. Many months ago
its 400 ft. lode began to look like the Tantanoola tiger;
often reported, it was, nevertheless, never there when
wanted. Now, there is said to be a north lode at the
300 ft., but it seems to be the tiger’s brother. There
is a zinc lode near the plat at the 300 ft. on the
south side of the crosscut, but all the lode of
any other description that has been found going
north is harmless. The unsatisfactory nature of the ore
bodies has probably discouraged the directors ; anyway,
nothing has been done in connection with the water
supply and the concentrating plant, which used to be
star items on the programme. A pumping plant is, how-
ever, being put in at last, which is something. The New
White Leads, in common with the other small surface-
scratching shows along the White Leads flat, appears to
hold but one trump card—amalgamation. A lot of work
has been done, but what profits it all when nothing is
being done, or is likely to be done, with the ore ? All of the
mines thereabouts feel the absence of carbonates, which
in other places serve to keep things going while the
sulphides are being developed.
* » « *
The Gillies zinc plant, with practically a new
lock, stock and barrel, is beginning to do good work at
Broken Hill. As at first designed, it was not much
better than a toy ; and a good deal still remains to be
done before it can be called a commercial concern. The
difficulty is that, although an 85 per cent, recovery is
being obtained, the retention of the lead particles pre-
vents the concentrate going higher than 38 or 39 per
cent, for zinc.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation is still groping with two
Potter pans and a large stock of assurance. It has pro-
duced a few truckloads of zinc concentrates, but they don’t
all assay the published 49 per cent.
* * * *
The Cobar district (N.S.W.) is spawning
prospectuses, and it is about time the public took hold of
itself and asked for a few particulars about the shows it
is invited to put its money into. Many of them are so
obviously a mere something to hang a gamble on, that
the prospectuses don’t even mention whether it is copper,
silver, or fried fish that the promoters expect to strike at
depth. Generally, in connection with other wild-cat
litters, the promoters have spent at least £2 2s. on getting
the opinion of some alleged mine manager that “ the
prospects of your property are encouraging, and I have
no hesitation in saying that with the expenditure of a
moderate amount of capital payable results may be
anticipated.” The reports were pretty often not worth
£2 2s. ; but, anyhow, they did a trifle to maintain the
pretence that mining was really intended. When pro-
moters don’t even employ the two-guinea gentleman, it
is time to look out for trouble ; for this sort of gamble
can only end one way. #
Lithgow (N.S.W.) will soon be producing iron
and steel. The Minister for Works, who was up there a
few days since, “ can see no reason why steel should not
be exported ” to supply the enormous foreign consump-
tion. And there is no reason except the struggle of a
young industry, the heavy freight handicap, and Aus-
tralia’s own unprogressive policy in consuming so little
iron and steel in manufactures. It may seem a fine
thing to send iron and steel to a progressive country like
America; but the Yankee seems decidedly to have the
best of the deal when he can utilise all his own iron and
some of the foreigners’. The development of its internal
trade in iron and steel is what Australia needs. Unless
vigorous encouragement is given to the manufacturing
trade, the smelting of pig iron will be a limited and un-
important trade, giving employment to only a few
hundred men. It is of no use to imagine that the trade
requirements of pig iron will be greater than the very
moderate quantity now imported, unless we stimulate by
high Protection the secondary industries.
* » »
The January outputs and results of the chief
W.A. mines which publish full particulars were as
follows:— Profits: Oroya, 11,4430 z., £35,250 ; Boulder,
11,9850 z., £24,310 ; Ivanhoe, 10,1840 z., £21,100 ; Kalgurli,
74330 z., £20,280 ; Horseshoe, 12,3090 z., £20,120; Fingall,
82570 z., £14,130; Associated Northern, 34280z.,£10,000 ;
Perseverance, 64390 z., £8960 ; Associated, 47650 z., £6350 ;
Gwalia, 43690 z., £3OBO : South Kalgurli, 29450 z., £2720 ;
L.V. Consols, 33270 z., £1710; Hainault, 16570 z., £l3OO ;
Cumberland, 6000 z., £681; Vivien, 6260 z., £6lO ; Golden
ltidge, 4430 z., £370: Greenmount, 4340 z., £230 ; Euro,
1570 z., £80; Northern (late East Murchison United),
16660 z., £7O ; North Feather, 7100 z., £7O. Cosmopolitan
made a loss of £1660, and Bellevue of £330, while Boulder
Main Reef came out square.
* * « *
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), shows no
improvement at the bottom level. The last 30ft. have
carried values of 1 to 2dwt., which is worthless. Of
over 800 ft. driven at this level barely 300 ft. have carried
values of as much as 7dwt. Since June 30, when the
ore reserves were estimated at 677,000 tons, worth
455. 9d. per ton, 152,000 tons have been treated, of an
average value of only 365. per ton. In July the ore
treated was worth 425. 7d., and the profit panned out at
£22,000. In Jan. the grade had declined to 30s. 3d. per
ton, and the profit to £14,130. Every month has shown
a fall in grade, and if this continues much longer, the
price of shares must drop to par or lower. The east bore
hole has gone nearly 800 ft. in barren country.
■* * * *
Golden Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie, maintains its
position very well, seeing that it treats the biggest ton-
nage of any mine in the State. On December 31, 1905,
co.’s ore reserves were 1,047,700 short tons, worth 575.
per ton, while on December 31, 1906, reserves had in-
creased to 1,116,900 short tons, worth 51s. 6d. per ton.
The tonnage in reserve has increased, but the grade of
ore has fallen. Manager Sutherland can be relied on to
keep developments and equipment well up to date. The
lode cut in the adjoining Ivanhoe South Extended at
2000 ft. has not yet been driven on, as a sump of 30ft. had
to be sunk. The stone cut in the shaft carries visible
gold, and looks promising. If the opening out to the
south proves satisfactory, the Horseshoe should benefit,
as it holds 57 acres in that direction.
* • » *
Boulder Perseverance, Kalgoorlie, shows a
profit for January of £8960, against £14,130 for December.
Management tries to explain that the difference is due to
extra cost of stoping. The cost of breaking ore in
January was 6s. Bd., and in December ss. 7d.; the difference
would mean about £4OO. The fact is, Perseverance costs
are very erratic, sometimes including development, up-
keep, &e., and sometimes excluding them. Work at
1600 ft. has been suspended, as nothing payable can be
found, and a fresh start has been made at 1450 ft. Reserves
at December 31st were estimated at 609,600 tons, worth
325., against 486,600 tons, worth 345., on June 30, 1906.
The mine is not looking promising at present.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef, Kalgoorlie, is not reaching
the expectations of manager Wauchope. His estimates
give the ore reserves as 20,000 tons, worth 345. per ton ;
but, during December, the ore treated only returned 225.
Bd., and, during Januar3', 235. 2d. per ton. This grade of
ore cannot be worked at a profit.
* • * *
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, does not improve its posi-
tion. During the last quarter of the year its profits were
only £5130, yet a quarterly div. of Is. per share, or £6500,
was declared. During January the net profit was only
£l3OO. A great portion of the new plant is in position,
and the work of erecting the balance is being pushed
ahead; but, even with the additional equipment, it is
difficult to see how profits warrant the current price of
the scrip. However, Manager Moss has made such a huge
success of the Kalgurli that he may have something up
his sleeve to justify the scrip changing hands at current
quotes.
• • * •
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), is being
boosted by people on the spot. Co. paid three 6d. divs.,
or £6OOO, in 1897-98, but since then has merely milked.
shareholders. Now, for some inscrutable reason, those
supposed to be in the know have been buying scrip, and
advising friends lo do likewise. There are two reefs in
the property, each carrying a pay shoot 100 ft. long at
most. Under best conditions, each level only opens up
about 3000 tons of ore. Above the 640 ft. level the mine is
worked out, and, at present, there is only one level to go
on with. As a gamble the scrip may be right, but, as an
investment, it is not to be thought of.
• * • *
The Euro, Laverton (W.A.), once held and
abandoned by a Bull co., has been given a fresh trial by
a local syndicate. During December, 420 tons were
treated for a profit of £2BO ; and, during January, 463
tons yielded a profit of £BO, but in the latter case the
tailings were n.ot cyanided. This mine was originally
taken up by Bob Pettigrew, the prospector of the Brown
Hill, but he wanted too much, and pegged out four miles
on the strike of the reef, wich the result that he blocked
other prospectors. In the end, he had to abandon the
ground. On this point the W.A. mining law is curious.
It limits the area of a lease to 24 acres, and then allows
one man or co. to hold any number of leases. In this
way Great Fingall, Sons of Gwalia, Bellevue, Cosmopoli-
tan and others hold whole goldfields, and the ground is
never properly tested.
• * • ■
The Lancefield (W.A.) is unable to get properly
going. The new treatment plant was designed to treat 9000
to 10,000 tons monthly, but only treated 4279 tons in
December, and 4096 tons in January. The difficulty with
the refractory arsenical pyrites in the ore has not been pro-
perly overcome, and, until it is, the mine will hang fire.
No costs have been given for the two months’ run, but it
is safe to say that they are high, as running at intervals
is not a paying game. All the talent of 8.,M. and Co.
is engaged in trying to solve the knotty problem of treat-
ment.
• • * *
A number of copper claims in the Kimberley
district of Westralia are being prospected as fast as local
conditions will allow. Half-a-dozen prospecting cos.
have been formed in Melbourne and Adelaide, including
the Obagooma, Kimberley, Taylor’s North-West, ana
Derby. Only surface work has been done so far, but
Andrew Wilson, who condemned Narlarla Hills, thinks
they are worth spending money on, and is taking a hand
in their development. From one of the shows, Taylor’s,
several loads of rich ore have been sent away ; but the
teams are stuck up on the road to Derby, and it is not
likely they will get through till the wet season ends.
This property, Taylor’s, is said to have a 15ft. lode. The
Kimberley has also sent away about 20 tons, estimated to
go over 25 per cent. The claims lie at the back of the
Leopold Ranges, between Collier Bay and Stoke’s Bay,
and the most remote of them are no more than 30 miles
from the Robertson’s River landing.
A * * •
The other day J. S. Read, of the Perth Stock
Exchange, hurried to Melbourne and floated a Westralian
claim, known as the Wheal Ellen, in less than 12 hours.
With him, too, came some half-dozen delicious speci-
mens. These, on view after the float, recalled the
old Wealth of Nations and Plunderderry days. Speci-
mens or no specimens, Read would have had to knock
at the door a long time if Black Range and Barrambie
Range had not re-set the fashion in a limited way for
Westralians. Vendors get £4OOO in shares and cash,
£2OOO of which is to come out of the mine. The
latter, it is alleged, has produced 25000 z. in the
past 12 months down to 154 ft. Judging the mine
by the specimens, there ought to have been
25,0000 z. won in that time, if the shoot had been of any
extent. Judging the position still by the specimens, why
on earth did the prospectors want to part with such
wealth for so little ; and (still judging the mine by the
specimens) why would not Perth or Adelaide take on the
show ? Or, for the matter of that, where were the
twenty-and-one experts employed at big salaries to pick
up likely-looking properties ?
* * * *
Bendigo has been notorious for years for not
paying proper wages to miners or fair salaries to legal
and mining managers. To make up for the miserable
pittances which the two managers receive at ordinary
times, they are paid £ per cent, each on every divi-
dend declared. This is a system which may easily do a
vast deal of harm. Three good mines which paid good
dividends a \ ear or two ago are now under a cloud,
because all the work at the mine was devoted to gouging
out ore to pay dividends to shareholders and bonuses to
the managers. Dead work was neglected, and necessary
shaft-sinking, &c., was altogether set aside. The tempta-
tion to follow the gold, and stop prospecting, is too great
when a premium is paid men for doing it. The remedy
for the evil is to raise the screws of legal and mining
managers to a fair rate, and discontinue bonuses. Re-
cently a legal manager died, and surviving rivals offered
two years’ salary, amounting in two cases to £2OB, for the
privilege of taking likely dividend-payers into their
offices. It was a good gamble, for the legal manager will
either keep the companies’ books for two years for noth-
ing, or make £BOO to £lOOO a year on the dividends, should
gold be found.
• * * *
The flag was hoisted at the South Star claim,
Ballarat, to celebrate the striking of the reef at 3100 ft.
This is the deepest point to which mining has got on the
Plateau, and it would not have been there now had not
Bent given the co. £6OOO to help it down from 2500 ft. to
3100 ft. Adjoining the South Star, Star of the East got to
2200 ft., but failed to light on payable gold. Band and
Loch has dirt below 2080 ft. that should give divs.,
but the co. is crippled by its dog’s-hind-leg work-
ings. Ballarat made its usual wordy fuss over the
strike at the South Star. There was big talk of specks and
fine gold in the stone uncovered. But the only gold got
was that won by Stock Exchange “ speckers,” who
baffled all attempts to rush share values up. Seriously,
it was a plucky thing to take the show in hand with its
load of accumulated debt, the legacy of the Wilson
regime. Good stone in the South Star would vivify Star
of the East, Central Plateau, and Band and Loch, and
each needs a reviver. If the gold doesn’t come, the de-
cadence of the Ballarat field will be hastened, for the
outside public is nearly as tired of shovelling calls into
it as the local people are.
* * it ■*
Jordan River isn’t a hallowed name to dredging
people in Victoria. The dear little innocents of the Stock
Exchange, with others equally innocent, subscribed
during the dredging boom the capital to place a dredge
on a section of the Jordan River. Yields panned out
about 9oz. a week, and John McWhae’s feet, which are
not small, could hardly support him when he felt the
shock of the failure. Still, when the co. went to
liquidation, and the plant to the hammer, he and his
Lordship the Mayor, and one or two more, bought in the
show and plant at job-lot prices. With the Jonahs out,
the luck changed, and those who failed to stay didn’t
fail to make nasty remarks when better yields were
reported. John McWhae thereupon planted his No. 9’s
down in the Call-room, and let off at all and sundry.
But almost at the same moment the flash in the pan
ended, and the average of the yields fell so low that the
plant has had to be shut down again, to be sent to
Bright, where dredging keeps true to the name of the
town. So another scandal is scotched.
* * • »
“The Slave”: Be Loddon Valley Deep Leads
(B. 14/2/’O6). There is a stream of water Bft. wide and
lft. deep in the lower level drive, and a whole lot of the
lead has been drained. The working faces at present are
being pushed into wet ground, and that is where the
water comes from ; but with a drive nearly half a mile
long it can be understood that part of the lead above is
dry enough for panelling or blocking out, and this is
shown by the fact that for hundreds of feet along the
drive the bores have left off dribbling water, and
have been sucking up air into the gravels
above for some months. It will not, therefore,
take 12 months to get to work at the wash. In a couple of
months wash will be coming up for treatment. Whether
any decent return will ever be got for the bagfuls of
money sunk in the mine is another story altogether.
Bewick-Moreing aren’t specially sensitive about" losing
other people’s money, and they may do it at the Loddon
Valley ; but, anyway, they have shown a whole hatful of
points to every engineer who previously attempted to
work the deep levels, and they deserve credit for it.
They get from Australian works all their machinery that
can be made in Australia, and on the Loddon Valley
mine alone, in 1906, they spent £38,465, made up as fol-
lows .-—Timber, £1815; fuel, £8200; stores, £2880;
machinery (in Australia), £8420 ; wages, £17,150. This
is all English money, and surely it is doing Aus-
tralia some good to have mines, of which Aus-
tralian cos. couldn’t make a “ do,” worked on
this scale, and so much hard English coin spread
about the country. That they don’t mind spending
this money is shown by their programme for this
year, which includes the expenditure in labor, machines,
&c., of £300,000 on the Victorian deep leads (four mines).
It is Bull’s risk ; and why should Australia trouble about
whether he gets a return or not? [Why should Australia
trouble? Well, forone reason, because if the money that
is put up is lost, it will be a mighty hard job to get more
money put up. The Bulletin isn’t keen on seeing
foreign money invested in Australia, for foreign money
means foreign debt; but, jealous of the good fame of
Australia, it doesn’t want the foreigner to get the idea
that Australia spells wild-cat.]
* ♦ * *
Smith’s Creek (N.Q.) has published its half-
yearly accounts, and it doesn’t look as though Captain
Warren is going to get the co. out of the mud. It made
£2134 profit last half-year, but that is without allowing for
interest on £10,993 of 10 per cent, cumulative preference
shares or for depreciation. Altogether 3811 tons of stone
was treated, so the profit was 11s. 3d. per ton. Captain
Warren says the “probable reserves” aie 29,000 tons.
At 11s. 3d. per ton that means £16,312. Besides the
£10,993 of preference capital there is £25,215 of ordinary
capital; and on present appearances the latter may con-
sider itself dead. Besides its cumulative pref. shares,
the ordinaries have a loan of £3325 standing between
them and the possibilities of a dividend ; and the excess
of liabilities (including this loan) over liquid assets is
£1650. Granted that some more ore bodies may be de-
veloped, it can certainly only be done at heavy cost. It
is a gloomy prospect.
The Ruby P.C., Charters Towers, continues to
turn out good stone. The last parcel of 380 tons yielded
11980 z., worth £3998, and residues brought the average to
£lllls. per ton. A dividend of 6d. (£2500) was declared.
But there is no quantity of ground opened up, and the
locality is very patchy ; present stone is coming from the
eastern side of the underlay. Shows on either side of the
P.C. have drawn a blank, notably the United, which has
a shaft right on the P.C. boundary. There are 63 calls
opposite the United’s name. The Ruby’s other neighbors
have put up their shutters.
• * • *
Up to now nobody has visibly benefited from
the floating of the Mystery, Charters Towers, except the
people who sold the co. its working plant. So far as
mining is concerned it has been comic-opera business all
the time. You can judge that from the one fact that,
after two years’ alleged work, the straight shaft is down
250 ft. The lease has enjoyed exemption in one form or an-
other for about 22 months, and now it has got six
months more. Charters Towers ought to be ashamed of
the whole affair, including the attempt made to get a
jump out of the cat a while ago.
• * * *
Marshall’s Queen, Charters Towers, shows a
credit of £537 after six months’ toil. The output ran to
1662 tons for an average of £3 16s. 4d. per ton. The co.
has all along been anchored to the hand-to-mouth policy
which has been one of the curses of the field. Now that
the reef is small and scattered, it takes the proceeds of
one crushing to beat out the next. The credit balance
of £5OO odd has already about vanished, so there is a 300
ton parcel ready to go through.
* * * *
Kelly’s Queen, Charters Towers, holds its own
with the best of them at the battery. The crushing
recently put through has enabled the co. to declare
sixpenny dividend. A clean-up after 980 tons had gone
through returned £5460, an average of £5 11s. sd. pel
ton. Crushing is still proceeding with 10-head.
• * • •
Sharebroker Hedley Hawkins, of Brisbane, who
pushed off the Mt. Spurgeon Alluvial Tin Co., wants to
know what is the “ vicious system ” complained of in
connection with that recent float. The point seems plain
enough (B. 7/2/’O7). For every 100 contributing shares
applied for, the promoters offered to throw in 50 paid
shares ; so, though the contrib. shares w ill presently go
on the market as having had ss. paid on them, they will
only really have cost that much, less whatever the paid
shares are worth—in other words, the shares go out with
a fictitious value stamped on them. And it doesn’t make
the system any better that the Willcocks Cloncurry Co.
did much the same thing. As to Mt. Spurgeon, Mr.
Hawkir.s adds that the directors had enough confidence
in it to be prepared to subscribe the whole issue.
• • * *
Warden Linedale, of Cloncurry, deserves en-
couraging. His latest frank official remark is about the
little Daisy, a recent Charters Towers float: “ I visited
the Daisy, but failed to find anyone there to enable me
to get down the shafts, although the manager knew I
intended to visit the property that day. A friend of the
manager showed me where the mine was.... I got down
to within about 10ft. of the bottom of No. 1 shaft, where
a break occurred in the ladderway, so that I was unable
to inspect the sink. I, however, got into the western
level, and examined it and the shaft from that point to
the surface. What ore is visible is a very silicious sul-
phide, but the formation is chiefly quartz, and I do not
consider appearances encouraging." Which about agrees
with Tub Bulletin description—“ A few inches of very
rich ore, and the usual few feet of copper-stained quartz”
—the inches for the promoters ; the feet for the public.


I “ALF-A-GUINEAforN^uS
, are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything chat can be bought in
s»ss s sszsl
■Kiasa-a
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
Of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
for nothin- Way *° get half - a -B«inea's worth
anglers
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
Wolfe’s Schnapps counteracts the effect
of bad liquors, bad beer, bad water. It cures the
troubles they bring on. Wolfe’s Schnapps : A
pure extract of selected barley"*and the curative
jumper berry, distilled in Holland.*
SHAKESPEARIAN THERAPEUTICS.—If
anything' can “ minister unto a mind diseased ” it
is assuredly Hunyadi Janos, which will “dleanse
the stufl’d bosom of the perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart.” It is an arsenal of therapeutics,
being speedy, sure, and gentle.*
ABORTIGIN-
ALITIES
“Gilrooney”: “ Nymsie ” (B. 17/l/’O7)
asserts that crows have no gall. I don’t know
whether they have or not; but Ido know that in
our boyhood s days the Chows used to give us a
shilling for every crow we brought them. But,
owing to the scientific elusiveness of the gentle-
man in black, the business wasn’t a profitable one
so we took tp shooting black magpies (absolutely
the easiest birds in the bush to shoot), and after
carefully plucking out the few light feathers, we
had the gall to pass them off as crows to John.
And our pig-tailed customer never seemed to
dispover the difference.
A DREARY OUTLOOK,
“ Who will you yet to do your work, Bill, when
the old dad gets his harp?”
“Gawd knows. I might 'ave to, do it myself.”
Barney : A friend of mine has a pair
? f W UIIS f h T h ’ d . ui : in & past year, have
hatched out for him eight ducklings. They have
been sitting continuously for about seven months
the male bird relieving his mate for three hours
or so each day. If the ducklings are any color
but white when hatched, they are promptly killed
>y the gulls, but white ducklings are tended
a setting tal<e ? Tw ° e^B constitute
a setting, llie male bird wandered off for four
days a while ago during which timehis mate never
left the nest. When he was brought back, he
seemed to recognise that he’d been neglecting his
duties, and went straight to the nest and took
for a feed W HSO woman stepped out to look
"■k.O.P.” stakes his immortal soul on
this yarn:—
m answer to ‘‘Paul Cupid ” (B. 17/l/’O7), I would like to
say that the cattle-dog was very much alive when the
i#er*snake chased him, especially when the snake was
running the fourth ring round him. It was on the fifth
ring that the snake punctured him. The dog was a very
hairy specimen, and the snake was evidently running
round looking for a bald patch to bite him on, which hi
eventually did just under the wish-bone.
f„n f° r ° atcllin S' the snake. Well, I’ve tried unsuccess-
tull\ tor the last six months to do so, as I realised long
before Mr. Blooming “ Paul Cupid” spoke out of his turn
mon ? y ln him if he could he captured and
Th . IS partlc “? ar t^ er is "'ell known in the dis-
Wh °’ by the way> is also a
tr>^q e vmf n tln&Ui ? hed herself not long ago by giving birth
olr) i nir,!' 1 " snak es. When they were two or three days
o. a Ini Q? ained Bl and m yself came across her lying
h ! , il e "’ as . ani using herself swallowing them one
make * ™m hcn dlB^or ff in ff them again. We decided to
ruthed ? ,° pracure d an empty kerosene tin and
snakes to scratch nineteen baby
thfolH w^ hetm ff WI ' h , ab,t of P ali ng, while Bill kept
clearer! nni ?? ' Vlt l a corn er post. She presently
tike the es J h he rest her fami] y- Bill decided to
m j of his whn Ured y ? un «' sters home and play a joke on a
our hnr J vbo was given to seeing snakes, so we got on
mv attention t pr f pare d fc o start. Just then Bill drew
> aiatnanH th £ s,lake ’ which had crawled up on the
mil it v d S having a roll call. However, vve didn’t
had counted ten missin^
whichtooirtfi m P r ed fol '• ho,ne ’ a distance of three miles,
lift the f 8 fit i ee ” m , lnutes - We dismounted, and Bill
vinf , b ntn tht ed n t sna - k f s in the while we
moment Wltb °Hr saddles. Coming out a
Tittr was our surprise when we saw Mrs.
Hs°f r t,i W h Th Ca o m tke u kerosene tin, swallowing her
fatnM lnAu Sh<3 va,n ,? hed into space. Now, if a big,
miles rn / s w allow 20 y° u| )g ones, travel three
banked the gh n USh -, track with none of the curves
banked, then swallow 19 more, all in a fraction over
titeTsnike <loe f, lb nob follow that a full-grown male
rv r ei n n a fi k n fe, Wl h o° encumbrances, must be able to
travel infinitely faster? Catch a cattle dog? Why, I’ll
back my snake to catch a wireless telegram.
* * * *
Horrible stories came to the Melbourne
newspapers, after February 1, of the murderous
id, Sportsmen ” on the opening day of the
Boort U massacre - A curdling message from
Fifing mfdpr P » r ni eS formed camps around the lakes.
lv ar .V 10 ?”’ be & an at midnight on Thurs-
day. They woke the ducks from sleep to immolate them.
Kerang announced :
sw^mmhfZft°^ ed u d overni §'ht to various creeks and
sufflTnllvfu among the ducks as soon as it was
mornii)" 0y ° ht " A fusillad e was kept up till late in the
Kerang also boastfully estimated that the
slaughtermen in the district had shot 10,000 ducks
during the first three days of the season. One
man who surely ought to be employed at the
abattoirs, slew 160 ducks on his first day. His
name was Joe—not Herod.
**‘ * *
The W.A Government is just at present
engaged in laughing to scorn a proposal of one
Marks, of Melbourne. Mordecai (in his own
country) wants a huge grant of land in the nor’-
west whereon to settle Russian Jews. What the
Iwo Found lnbes would do there, no one who
knows the nor -west can conceive. The residents,
-r 16 ’ do “ b wear much more than a gluttonous
appetite a,nd a savage smile. Clothing is un-
neeessary in a climate ranging from 85 in winter
to 130 in summer so the Russian Yidder would
“ cl.,KK a e “ U i Ch ° hance at developing a trade in
-, (pron °iince it “clobber,” but don’t
Pf’ , S 0 lf you are Kosher). Hardy Australians
can put up with the circumstances of the case,
Hebrews 1 —M a | te ' bred foreignera - esp ecially
/t> ” 4 lie foul-smelling creeper
rnp'n n, can put the writer on to a speci-
nen of the vegetable tribe that will knock his
climber out first round. My
champion is a second cousin to
a caiadium. The bulb was in-
troduced into our greenhouse
with a batch of other flowers,
and we took it in, knowing no
better. Its foliage is palm-
like, and it owns a stem re-
sembling the hide of an old-
man carpet snake. It grew
freely under my mother’s tender
care, and soon became too big
for a pot, so we bedded it out.
Next year there were several
bulbs the size of pumpkins,
and the mater hastened to pre-
sent the spare ones to the
family doctor and other pet
cronies. That year it flowered.
It sent up a weird affair like a
closed and very dilapidated
umbrella, and mother gloated
over its coming beauty. One
evening I got home from toil
to find an infuriated family
and cook searching high and
low for a nest of rotten eggs,
a plague rat, or some other
offensive matter. My room
smelt like a dead horse, and was full of blowflies.
It was that horticultural specimen in full bloom
and blast. We shot it dead with a gun.
* * * *
“J.M.”: Re “Janor” (B. 31/l/’O7).
Once saw the Government inspector astonish the
contractor by walking up to a plugged log and
condemning it at a glance. We found out later
that he had had a good look at the stump. The
contractor had forgotten to plug that.
*‘ * *
F.C. : Can any one of the genus
Abo. Verax explain why glass can be cut with a
pair of scissors if held under running water ? The
weapon won’t cut a sheet straight across, but it
certainly shears strips off the side of the glass so
that it can be reduced to the size required, leaving
an edge about as rough as that of a torn sheet of
brown pap*>r. The mystery is why the water
must be running. Hold the glass in, say, a bucket
or water and if merely breaks anyhow; but hold
it under a tap and the thing can be done. [Can it?]
A BRAW LADDIE.
McPHERSON (who has fallen off the jetty and been rescued): “ Ye’ve saved ma life. An’ ye
winna tak a half-croon.” (Fervently). “ God bless ye!”
“Stony”: In these days, when we so
frequently fail to make the most of our great
natural resources, it is refreshing to meet with
such productiveness as that of the hard-working
dame who lives on our corner-block. This woman
is the tenant of half-an-acre, and has most of the
land under intense culture, her crops including
potatoes, cabbages, turnips and mangolds. She
has a grazing area and a poultry-farm, besides
three horses and a cow, all on the half-acre. She
keeps goats as well, but these are no tax on the
area under her management; she runs them on
the high road and its precincts, where they pick
up a trifle from the neighbors’ kitchen-boxes. In
addition to all these enterprises, this interesting
woman has added to her responsibilities by becom-
ing the mother of eight large and healthy children.
Some of these are larger than others, but even
the smallest is a credit to its mother and the
State, and is enough to make one think that our
great natural resources are not so painfully unex-
ploited, after all.
* * * *
“ Mallarapoonie ” : Has any Bulletin
reader ever noticed that peculiar mental kink in
the Australian aboriginal’s mind that prevents
him looking down a deep shaft ? The average
blackfellow will risk his neck up a tree as high as
Haman’s gallows, but love of tobacco can’t in-
duce him down a hole in the ground. It is a
difficult matter to persuade a nigger to even act
as braceman, and I never struck one yet who
would allow himself to be lowered down a 60ft.
shaft on a rope for all thegoannas between Coona-
barabran and Kojonup.
* * -x *
“ Mallarapoonie ’’ tells of the escape of his
countenance :
I once acted as conductor to a wire-fence orchestra
with a tomahawk in lieu of a baton. Was wire inspecting l
on a Paroo station in the tail-end of the Big Drought and
had occasion to camp one night beside a 6-wire fence* A
cattle-pad followed the fence, and, like an ordinary
Johnny Raw, I must needs sleep lengthwise on the track,
little suspecting* it was used for traffic by numerous ver-
min during the night. Some time in the little hours of
the morning I was awakened by an almost imperceptible
sound —a sensation rather—of some creature approach-
mg. I lay and listened intently to a gentle “ pad-pad-
pad' coming along the fence. Otherwise the bush was
silent as the grave. A dying moon was shedding a wan
light over the dark levelstretehes of dense mulgascrub The
horse-bells were still, and not a leaf stirred. “ Pad-pad-
pad came the stealthy sound, drawing nearer. Behind it
came other faint cushioned footfalls on the sand. I
looked up quickly, and was paralysed to behold a gigantic
ghostly figure towering into the gloom. It looked like a
shadowy Eiffel Tower—a sort of emaciated spook of great
elevation about to collapse on me. My nerves could
stand the racket no longer, and I rose in my blanket with
a yell right under the breastbone of a large male emu
Another stride and the great, gaunt bird, stalking along
the pad with ten companions in his rear, would have
planked a horny, splay foot right on my countenance
Personally I hate having my face trodden on. Then
those tall fowls suddenly forgot there were any fences
west o’ the Warrego and. lit out violently for sunrise
Twang-ging-gang-ting-a-ling-twang 1 ” and those 1 eleven
emus struck the fence. Then followed a burst of wild
natural chords. Had a sudden arrival heard the frantic
‘drumming” of the big rooster emu as he struggled
with the wires, no doubt would have been left in that
person’s mind that a whole band was out. During the
second bar of “ The Wild Colonial Boy ” the big drummer
got disentangled, and streaked into the mulga, with the
piccolo player streaming in his rear. Then the trombone
blower departed madly into the night, and the basso
broke two strings and skedaddled, leaving much feathers
on a post. Gradually all the musicians broke up and left
except two that got fitchered in the wires by the hind lea.’
I waited till the crashing of dry mulga sticks had died
away easterly, and then, tomahawk in hand, I fell on
those two fitchered emus like an infuriated cyclone.
Next morning it took me over an hour to mend the
fence, and then, with a pair of feathered doormats
for the missus strapped to the saddle, I went on my way.
• • • *
“C.K.Y. ”: Be sprinting snakes. The
other day I found sft. of snake in an open grass-
paddock. I had no stick, and I jibbed at jumping
on his head, so I pelted the streak of brown
infamy with small clods. The streak of brown sin
sprinted for the nearest bush, a quarter-of-a-mile
away. I followed, and found I could keep up to
his best gait by walking fast. For the future I
shall take -no stock in snake Carbines. Our long
friend may spring from the leverage of his tail
but as a sprinter he is a holy frost.
“F.H.K.”: Undoubtedly the best mimic
m the bush is man. Iliad a mate once who was
a born imitator. We were camped just outside
fence, and inside was a mob of dairy cattle,
n mor . 1 ) ln &’ he cal »e out and started bellowing
i i cows looked U P a s one cow.
r - * 1611 . be barked like a dog. More bellowing, in-
P ermixed ’'y l ™ sharp snaps, as if a dog was worry-
lnga ca “ into veal. Those cows could stand it
tt lorl " e . r ’ ar ‘ d charged for the scene of action,
He continued the burlesque inside the tent, and
tb e cattle, becoming greatly excited, came right
Up t 0 u d be £ an to think the thing had gone far
® wb en a big strawberry brute got her
, n . s - tan f led ln a guy-rope, and pulled the whole
P a } at ’ al shebang down with a run. The ridge-
-8 , g , £ my mate . orl tbe bead and killed the
“?£> anci . ca G a ct right away. I cursed him for
bIS too j lstmes s, while I hunted for a packing-
ne<^| Ie .° ™ en d the tent. The cattle hung round
J lll /’ 11 mnkmg-time. I have seen the same man imi-
tate a crow so truly that another crow flying over-
bead has wheeled in mid-air to have a look at him.
n!i!!. t !! 0 “ ght f the i °f al i’ Th e man who can
tool ci crow can fool a herd of nawnbrokers
P
GRATITUDE.
MACBOOZER (who has been warned to yo
home): “ Goo’role pleeshman — hie.”
(Kissing his helmet.) “I thought you
wash gain) to arrest me — hie — s’help me,
I did.”
Batlow ” : What can the domestic cat
find in lizards, X wonder, to induce her to go in so
heavily for that diet at certain times. She gets
miserably thin on it, and presents a most woebe-
gone aspect after a week’s lizard course.
* * * *
“ Hiphen ” : On almost every occasion on
which I plucked parrots for the “pigeon pie,”
which figured conspicuously on the bill-of-fare at
the wayback pub. where I used to graft, I noticed
a large, brown, beetle-looking insect among the
parrot’s personal attire. But for that solitary
specimen, every parrot I have handled has been
as clean as the record of an unborn land-agent.
It has made me wonder whether the parrot en-
couraged the said animal around his premises to
act as a watch-dog and keep out intruders of an
irritating nature. Perhaps some abandoned fact-
Contortionist can enlighten me.
* * * <
“ Moan ” : Speaking of snakes—a few
miles out of Termed, on the main South Co ist
road (N.S.W.), may be seen hanging to a trie,
apparently by its claws, about 10ft. of deceased
carpet snake. In a moment of indiscretion tl e
reptile swallowed a fair-sized native bear, which,
in its dying struggles inside, drove its toe-nails
through the wall of the prison, and took such a
healthy grip of the tree that the serpent was
moored there permanently—nailed to the tree by
its dinner, so to speak.
THE BUSH-RATS' NEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Under the shade of the wind-rocked trees, deep down by
the drooping shrub,
Where all day long the bronzewings hide in the heart of
the clustered scrub,
Where the sandy plain lies hot and brown away to the
rainless west,
The bush-rats lie in the dreaming-place of their hidden
hollowed nest.
The station children pass it by as they go to the bathin<>-
pool, a
And the bullock teams on the winding road creak down
with a load of wool ;
Cut still and secure’neath their grassy screen the wee
ones take their rest—
There’s an earthly coolness in the bed of the wary bush-
rats’ nest.
When the night winds rise in brigalow trees, and the
sheep-dogs bay the moon,
And wild duck come from the drying creeks to the far
reed-fringed lagoon,
They stir deep down on their tails of brown, and rise
from the day-time rest,
And four bright eyes look wakefully from out of the
bush-rats’ nest.
They spring from the hollow and flit away from under
the drooping shrub,
With one ear cocked for feeding stock on the edge of the
lightwood scrub,
And they dodge the grey owl out for loot, and they
scamper as though hard prest
If only a fret of moonbeam plays on the grass by the
bush-rats’ nest.
They feed away by the clover patch when the seasons
have been good,
They burrow for roots beneath the groves of the clustered
sandal-wood ;
Through broken fences they make their way when the
station is all at rest
To take the mem’ry of garden stuff with them to the
circled nest.
And when the bird of the dawning calls by the rushes
down the swamp,
And when the stir of a horse’s bell comes up from the
teamster’s camp,
They know, though paddocks are fair by night, that
home in the day is best,
And scuttle away to sleep again in the bush-rats’ hidden
nest !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES
AGAIN AND
AGAIN
We have received
unsolicited letters
like the following:
“ Gentlemen.— About the end of October, 1901, I pur-
chased from you a watch, No. 1812521, in gun metal'case
(open face). This watch has not cost me a penny since,
and is still going in an entirely satisfactory way. lam
constantly singing its praises and extolling its virtues
to my friends.”
WHY ?
The “ Fx. & R. ’’ Watches are notmerely watches turned
out by the million. They are horological instruments of
perfected finish—each part is strictly tested. Yet our
prices are as low—we think lower—than any in Australia.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures,
Strictly Cash.
23 HUNTER STREET.
30/-
Gent’s.
“Fx. & R.”
f-plate Lever,
15 jewels, oxi-
dised metal
open face case
Dear Bulletin. — Talking of Murrum-
burrah’s deadness (“ Hamer,” B. 14/2/’O7). Some
years ago it was a matter of life or death for me
to reach Young from ’Burrah, in connection with
a cricket match in which I was a star performer.
The night before had upset the day after, and I
missed the vehicle. I offered fabulous prices for
a horse, or hearse, or any way of getting to Young
by noon. Finally I struck a pub with a horse in
the stable. The steed was owned, according to
the groom, by a woman teacher who had gone to
Binalong for Sunday. It cost me two drinks to
convince him that I was the teacheress’s long-lost
brother; but I got the horse, got to Young, got
a blob, got back before the teacher got home, and
the policeman would have dropped deader than
usual and got buried if he had known that a case
of horse-stealing had happened under his nose.—F.
* * » *
“Nameless” : Has any Abo. scribe noticed
the suicidal tendencies of the jumper ant if dis-
turbed in his virulent attack upon one’s leg ? When
brushed off he makes a few mad jumps into the
surrounding atmosphere, then, finding nothing to
satisfy his wrath, turns his sting against himself
with concentrated fury ; and if left alone, in a
few minutes that small black ball of compressed
vindictiveness will be dead. I have a scheme for
crossing jumpers with Judders, and thus getting
a breed of self-destroying preacher ants or leaping
teetotallers.
INTRICATE.
BOY (in buff): “Get out er them clothes an ’
come for a swim."
MATE : “Man, I don't need to. An' if I got me
clothes off me they'd go to pieces on me, an ’
then I’d have no clothes."
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Consider awhile
the longness of the names of various villages and
hamlets in the Yass-Gundagai districtof N.S.W. :
Binalong, Illalong, Galong, Micalong, Jogalor.g,
Bongongolong, Gobarrolong, Fartoolong, Woi.t-
bulong, Bengarrolong, etc. Informed by the
lady of the homestead at Illalong that “long”
in the aboriginal names of the district means
“ home of snakes.”
BUSH DIRECTIONS.
SWAGGIE : “ How far do you call it to the Halfway House?"
MAN (on horse, after consideration): “ It’s about 11 miles when I'm riding me own horse , hot
it’s four miles more on THIS crock. An’ when you’re walking I’m blessed if I know
how far you would call it! Good-day."
“Gip”: One would think, on reading
that Russian scientist’s par., sent in by “ Has-
san” (B. 14/2/’O7), that white cockatoos were shy.
Once, in a weak moment, I promised to help two
ragged young pals of mine to “mind” a couple
of freshly-sown barley paddocks. We went down
directly after dinner—the birds then covered one
of the paddocks like snow. Running, we shoo’d
them off. They rose, screeching like all the loco-
motives on earth, and settled on several ring-
barked gum-trees. After a short confab, they
descended on the other piece of “ cultivation ’ a
large stretch of grass divided the two. “ Run,
Jimmy,” I called, excitedly. “ You run,” said
Jimmy, politely. “Oh, Peter, you go,” I coaxed.
But Peter refused to go unless I did, so we all
ran together. The cockatoos rose again, screech-
ing angrily, and, after going through the same
performance, settled on the other ploughed pad-
dock. This went on till dusk, and anyone hap-
pening along might have seen a wild-looking and
half-demented young woman flying automatically
between two paddocks, a couple of urchins, with
hair growing up through their hats, hanging co
her skirts. Let a stick be ever so like a gun,
cockatoos only chuckle when you point it at them-
But bring along the real article, and try to get
within half a mile of them, and you’ll begin to
understand how much more cunning the cocky-
numerous is than the crow. X think cockatoos
ought to be attacked with a cannon loaded with
small shot, the weapon being planted a mile
away.
* * * *
A few months ago, when Dr. Klaatsch, the
discoverer of the alleged missing link, was in
Brisbane, he was interviewed regarding his dis-
covery, and asked for photographs of the link for
publication, but
he made a deep
mystery of it,
declaring that
the information
was to be made
public only
through the
medium of his
scientific writ-
ings. The Cour-
ier thereupon
communicated
with a Port
Darwin repre-
sentative, and
has received in-
formation and
two photos, of
thelink, showing
that Klaatsch’s
tale is mostly
moonslii n e.
Many of the
Northern Terri-
tory natives
have the space
between the
great toe and its
neighbor con-
siderably wider than other people, due to their
habit of picking up sticks and other things with
those toes, and Donghol-that’s the link s name-
lias this peculiar formation in a slightly greatei
degree than the others ; but even his feet wouldn t
be regarded as hands except by somebody who
was looking hard for a link and meant to find one.
* » * *
“ T.0.M.” : To see a snake basking in tl.e
morning sun one would think that he could stai d
the heat of midday without discomfort; but it is
not so. Snakes, if captured and put in a box
must have water thrown over them, and on the
ground where the box stands if exposed to the
noon sun, otherwise they will die. They like the
morning and evening sunshine, but sneak into the
shade and coolness of creeks while the scorch is on.
“Snow Gum”: “Janor” (B. 17/l/’O7)
casts doubt on the lyre bird’s mimicking ability.
The controversy that has arisen from his state-
ment is amusing. While not doubting “ E.J.’s ”
statement (B. 7/2/’O7) in general, it seems very
strange that “ E. J.” has had 20 years or more in
the scrub and, during that time, has onlyseen
two lyre birds’ nests. I calculate that he (“E.J.”)
should have seen 2): nests per week. The nests
seldom contain more than one egg, of something
the same color as Jack Johnson. To stalk the
lyre bird, the Aboriginal person must proceed with
great care. If he cannot trust to memory, he
should use a green notebook ; white is far too
conspicuous. lie must leave his Waterbury at
home, as the ticking announces his arrival, and
the long-tailed one departs with much haste and
silence. The best way is to advance cautiously,
keeping low down in the scrub, to stop dead
when the bird stops his performance, and to
advance when he resumes. Great caution is
necessary, for the fowl has an awkward habit of
chopping his turn off short, and listening amongst
the echoes for any strange sounds. He is certainly
fairly good as a ventriloquist. Have often traced
the noise up to within a few yards of its source,
and gazed in vain at a certain clump of scrub for
a glimpse of tail. As soon as I’d say “ Damn,”
he would emerge with much flurry from a point
10yds. away. An old Scotchman on the Mitta is
said to have been successful in taming a lyre in
the early days. It used to whistle “The Wild
Colonial Boy,” with variations, to the intense
delight of the diggers. The Scotchman, who had
been a piper in his youth, sent away for a set of
bagpipes. He had visions of a rapid fortune if he
could teach the bird to pour forth the genuine
Scotch melody. The pipes arrived per coach one
evening, and the burgoo-destroyer at once pro-
ceeded to impress it on his captive that he (the
bird) did’na ken th’ guid moosic. Alexander
MacParritch kept up an unearthly din until late
at night. Before daybreak next morning the lyre
bird tied a knot in his neck and hung himself to
a rail in the box where he slept.
* * * *
Seventeen beer-chewers went into a Win-
ton (Q.) bar the other day, and came out an hour
later, having, in the meantime, surrounded 28
drinks each. Four hundred and seventy-six
drinks among 17 men in an hour ! The hog in
the bar can be a worse hog than the hog in the
car.
* * * *
“ Gip ” : Talking about sharks attacking
persons in boats (B. 14/2/’O7). I know of one
that followed an old-time champion in a ’rigger.
The sculler was training for an important
match on the Parramatta. The shark —a big
fellow—came up alongside him in mid-stream,
and though the sculler rowed faster than he had
ever done before, his acquaintance, the fish, easily
kept alongside. It was always a matter of won-
der to the man that the hungry one didn’t strike
the shell, and as he ran into shallow water and
endeavored to flatten his hair, he made up his
mind that a shark at his best must be the very
swiftest thing that God ever created. Yet he
isn’t. The shark is rather a heavy, loafing
scavenger of the sea, and is really a goods train
among express fish. He lives by eating the gravel
train fish, or the fish that have gone off the line
and been ditched.
UP-TO-DATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
** Shearers are now up-to-date, inasmuch as the bicycle
has, with them, superseded all the older means of loco-
motion.” —Queensland paper.
We that took to the cross-bush track when the work at
the shed was done,
With heel and toe, and the swag at back, from dawn till
the set o’ sun,
Or straddled a cheap and seedy weed and urged it with
whip and heel,
Have chucked the shank and the weedy steed for the
hum of the whirring wheel.
We ride in the dust of the beaten tracks with our chins
on the handle-bars,
With crooked legs and with bended backs, till we’ve quite
forgot the stars;
Our world is a world of ruts and rails, of grades and
stones and mud;
We ride as though Satan were at our tails a-thirsting to
have our blood.
We crouch and strain on a slim machine of rubber and
tin and steel,
And the only song that our ears may glean is the hum of
the whirring wheel;
We know no longer the ’tween-roads blocks and the
creeks where the dog-wood grows,
The undergrowth of the scented box and the hills where
the white-gum blows.
We were wont to lilt, as we went our ways, the words of
an old bush song,
And our souls would thaw in the pleasant blaze as we
smoked in the twilight long ;
We boiled the billy and made the tea, and we had our
cheeriest fare
With a laughing-jackass for company, and in hail of a
monkey-bear. /
Once we were bearded, tall, and straight, tough in the
thews, and strong ;
We swung in our stride at an easy gait as we cheerily
moved along ;
Friends with the hills and the creeks and the rocks, and
fain to the evening star ;
And we knew the huts in the ’tween roads blocks, where
the kindliest welcomes are.
But now we crouch to the handle-bars as over the roads
we steal ;
We’ve quite forgotten the clouds and stars in the hum of
the whirring wheel;
We strain at the grades with bended backs, huddled, and
cramped and mean ;
Our world is a world of dusty tracks, and our horse is a
tin machine.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken, re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Nym : Your letters grow expensive, owing to
the perpetual fines because they are “ closed against
inspection.” J. Brew : One yarn dull; t’other vile
The Battler : Bather hard to read, and sounds like rather
ordinary love verse when deciphered.... Robert T. :
Article on “ Imperial Council ” has much truth in it, but
too much tonnage. Even the truth should be bright, or
people won’t read it... .Ploda Long': Verses begin “Oh !
beauteous maid,” but the picture represents a rather
ordinary girl with a kiss curl.... J.S.K.: Sorry to have
aggravated the Grey River Argus and Blackball News
(established 1865, and not very large for its age); but the
cablegram on which that par. was based said “Grey-
mouth,” not “ Greytown.” Whether some Maoriland
fool telegraph operator at your end made the mistake or
whether it was made at this end goodness knows
Member: One good par Towan Gurr : You have the
gift of longwindedness splendidly developed. And don’t
write verses with “ my lads ” at the end of every severalth
line... .Deepsea : Not a new idea in it, nor an old idea
put with new force...-Seegee: Cutout the printed par.,
address to the Accountant, Bulletin office, and he will
remit H.C.S. :It rhymes all right—in places; but,
even ghastly truth calls for more than that in verse....
Mack :“ He Drinks” is very ordinary Frank Mac :As
you have the required witnesses, why not write to the
Railway Department direct about the foul language of
that very remarkable Vic. police magistrate ? We haven’t
the witnesses, we weren’t there, and we don’t even know
the date of the occurrence The Mirror (Perth): Letter
offering to exchange cost 2d. for short postage. If the
paper also turned up eaqhweek insufficiently stamped, it
would make us tired... .C.B.H. : “ When we were Kids ”
only a record of foolish practical jokes Alfred B. :
Letter received saying, “If you intend making any use
of my notes or making any sense out of same to your
satisfaction kindly do so, or return same to above ad-
dress.” But there were no notes enclosed Janor :
Your last four packets have cost us 2d. each—
“closed against inspection.” We are tired T.G. :
“Grogan” rather long for its interest T.0.K.:
Cricket poem made a good stand, but was bowled 0ut....
Blackguard: Surely you don’t want to start an argu-
ment as to whether snakes swallow each other. They
do —moreover, they often swallow each other alive. Even
so ancient a party as the Eycycloiledia Britannica is
aware of that Joseph Clark: Afraid it would be im-
possible to reproduce it. Many thanks all the same
C. Prosser: Almost impossible to trace the issue that a
small advt. appeared in so long ago W.R.T.: No
subscription received in your name for Lone Hand
Outcast: Not really bad, but a shade below par A
few lines of “Johnnie Maori” as a sample and a warn-
ing :
He’ll spend his last few coppers
A Tangi to attend.
He may not have return fare,
But he’ll get back in the end.
....Numana: Seemed to be merit in some, but failed
entire y to disentangle it from your jolty handwriting.
There is no hope for you in literature unless you can
write a better paw.... Gnat Butcher: “Mosquito” too
bewildering... .H.M. : “Boon” is powerful, but we try
to avoid cheerless literature of that kind Birkhead :
We tell better lies than yours before breakfast O. :
Oh! O.S. : We buried “The Past.” Notajud :
Only a hymn....H. McL. : A dull, tired yarn
Tenterfield : Not worth “a real good criticism.” Jack
Burns: You’re no relation to Robert... .Arolia: It was
the workmanship, not the sentiment, that made us
accept that poem. Your reply lacks its charm Josie
H.: Seemed promising as far as it could be exhumed
from the superfluous flourishes of the caligraph.v....
Flick : It may, as you say, be unkind to call the domestic
handmaiden “Mary Ann” or “Biddy,” just as it is to
call a doctor “Sawbones ”or “Pills,” and a writer a
“quill-driver” or an “ink-slinger,” and an actor a
“mummer.” But these things will happen... Frank
Hewitt: It seems to be a tough, enduring joke, anyhow.
A.M. : We try to find room to answer writers of
articles, tales, and verse, and people who give us cheek.
We have given up trying to reply to writers of para-
graphs. They have simply to collect the money when
their items appear Mary E.P. : Might have passed it
but for the verse “ ’Tis sweet to die.” That wants to be
backed up by a sworn affidavit from the cadaver—E.
Dunbar : They missed fire Grey River : Sorry, but the
cablegram said “ Greymouth,” and this writer knows the
place, and reckons it capable of anything' P.E.D. :
The world wants an ode to Sarah Jones, but yours isn’t
the one Tim-buc: Bulletin isn’t too prudish, but
wouldn’t like to soil its columns with the sayings of those
early saints about women. A gentleman, however
saintly, who lived in the desert and never washed,
couldn’t have wholesome ideas about women. No good,
anyhow, opening up that subject....H.S.R. : No,
currants grow at Mildura all right. ..Vulcan: N.L.
wasn’t drawing a goat, but a satyr. And are you so sure
of the anatomy of a satyr? Heapy See : That was one
of the war lies G. T. Rogers : Tales and verse to hand,
but as you are another recruit to the great army that
doesn’t take the trouble to sufficiently stamp its letters,
we save time by not reading them... J.M. : Presume
you didn’t enclose stamps, or your “tip” would have
been returned R.T.B. : Horsham beer strike is ancient
history. *. .F.8.F.: Declined Kelpie : Apparently you
mean * to imply that marriage is the short road
to perdition... .Janor: Same old postal fine because
your stuff was “closed against inspection.”.. .
L.P. : There are such extensive areas in the British
empire suitable for growing cotton that there should be
little real need for Britain to rely on the U.S 0.H.5.:
A humble parody.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
George B. : That “go to the devil ” joke merely a
rehash of an old bit of Irish mirth H.W.O. : Viewed
your picture with gloom.. .W.F.C.H. :No visible joke, and
drawing very primitive. Also, you can’t have “ Nulla ”
for a pen name. Another man pegged out that claim
years ago Ed. V.: “Marooned” isn’t exactly art,
nor is it exactly anything else of importance
J.F.D. : Very promising, if original and not copied
Old Nick: Suggestion too confused.. ..A.B. : Not worth
much artistically, and skating jokes in Australia are like
snowballs in Gehenna E.K. : Sketch guiltless of per-
spective, and gag 57J years old D.E.C. : Received your
letter saying, “lam sending two sketches.” Also re-
ceived two very bad unsigned sketches in one packet, and
two dubious unsigned sketches in another packet. Then
received a letterfrom “ Ran,” saying, “ I have forwarded
a couple of sketches.” Which is all very indefinite,...
Freyberg: Did you invent the human beings in your
picture? Never saw any like them McD.: Long way
off publication mark.


f,
]f SW.nUrnes orrdhQ errors I "
" fomii"' J>osH "
M«ST Kow !
fostm •'s o1?j ecf~
■fo CV«k*S w^P/ >
oj' llVc Klfut'e 'study
Sj?«« •076*15—' ©ff«»> v ' , f£
-to found
l*7S & m
escaped
c/.
i Kn ■
Shjilef flicoelv 's
Set!
Up‘The
% /Sidney
W Vfelbourtie
pcle|)bon€ M
S botfly
"Office OnJkr
py&cf\C2\\ H- r will \>e.
\ v&Jw&W e*f>erie*fce for
M' WKinnoo ! r x
1 J/vg**/
£kc we VC wbos* wijse
15 IS +“OfW state, cof ter
het>ort~isself h*** r i, b^r.
s</ sb« U Ktraw '<e in misco/cj:
Tte Q^y*7J>
Unionise is A poa dr'
I * do*lC oooa WokK
tar tfc ■fieh't' >S r * av '» political
£ Arg us]
BIRTHg.^S
*« 18th February, at •«Th» r
a^twaritap**
£y«ry * throws Socialistic.
• "tat' io Come down
on Her 014 OnjeKVar/fve l>oo^! "
Be tfferfive to dooijesy
Obey | your I>oft, kwoull furt/ out \
cyzA\t to firin.
CloVle*> Hills!
S'KiehoU*! -
we no triore.
VICTORIAN EPISODES.


The Attorney'General Is suffering
from a rather severe attack of Influenza,
nr. Wade hopes to resume duty early
next week.
A neculiar ca.e was • decided At the Paddington Police Court
recently. A young man was charged with pretending that cert* l "
voices then heard in a room (October 26, 1904) were spirit voices
conveying messages directed to complainant to pay out the sumi of
U t W hich sun. he did pay. Plaintiff was told by a voice to go Into
sSwsvi rs
night); the rum should be sweetened to the taste.
an empty room,'but he did not know where the voice came from.
The defendant was there at the time, and the voice said: “Put £4
into a pair ot boots." Witness did as the voice directed, placing two
sovereigns In each boot.
Witness subsequently looked for bis
money, but It was gone. He was
told that the spirits had taken it.
There is a distinct movement towards a recon-
ciliation between Mr. Reid and some who have
been conspicuously opposed to him.—S. M. Herald r.
0. R.: “ Deakin, ole f’ler, do come and have a drink with me.”
Bad dream b, “““f
iss?s si —?s
' agltant about to swallow it* o* n^-
Mr. Carruthers was at his office for a portion of
but in the afternoon went out with his colleagues on the Govern
ment launch to hold a Cabinet council upon the harbor Probably
in re the proposed Coalition. In the picture above, in the dis
tance Is a boat load of eager Coalitionists. Hr. O’Sullivan will be
readily recognised pulling stroke.
. n< inn Sunday afternoon.—Professor Matteucci declares that at
London, y gubstance of the comet discovered by Pro-
fessor Mnrchettl, of the University of Hodena, wilt come in contact
wito the earth’s atmosphere, causing some danger.
S’oosd you don’t happen to know of anyone wanting to buy
* F a valuable house property?
President “Mary Jane” Gould will not wear
his wig invariably—only occasionally (wither
permitting), lust to show that he has one,
SPIRITS, COMETS, POLITICS, &c.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
There are in the House of Representatives
only seven clean-shaved men, and five of these
now come into it for the first time. The wildest
whiskers are still those of Emperor O’Malley.
Cecil Beauchamp St. Andrew Stuart Swiss
D f vi es is the name of the latest addition to the
roll of Queensland solicitors. It seeiiis a danger-
ously long tail to have to carry in the furious chase
after six-and-eight.
Charles Tucker has been formally ejected
from Adelaide City Council, and from various
charitable boards. But he still awaits the arguing
i So l ne P?^ nts °f l aw > and meanwhile he retains
the beautiful moustache which was one of the
sights of Adelaide. And—technically three
months of his two-years sentence have already
gone by. With good conduct, he can get off with
a trine over 12 months’ actual gaol.
ALBERT DORRINGTON, the Australian
story-writer, who leaves shortly for England,
How are the mighty all but fallen ! A
meeting .a 3 been called to “consider the desira-
°f dlSsolvi " g the Reform Club, Melbourne.
With others on the first committee of this club
RnbeVw fonnd ed in 1894, were Murray Smith!
Robert Harper, John Grice and Walter Madden
as well as plain W. Knox F. Madden, E. Miller,
fnd F A K nr V- ‘ D a’ ¥ eudod ’ A - McCracken
gS«t,ngts “I'llfe ! And ‘ he Re, °™ Cl ">> “
,‘‘ Smilcr ’’ Hales writes a big barrow-load
TrSil, Fl A h f ° r the Johannesburg Sunday
T / Hm theme 1S tbe Australian society
worm and tuft-hunter. The text is a large one
but then every country has its worm, and the
man who makes a few coins by writing about his
own worm as if it was more numerous or more
wriggly than everybody else’s worm, is a poor
creature. And Hales is a loud shouting creature
as well as a poor one. e '
Vic. Licensing Judge Molesworth worked
oft a neat pleasantry on barrister Meagher, theother
TvLii’oiT' appearing for the Commercial
Travellers Club in an application for exemption
from police supervision, and his Honor, in re-
fusmg the application, remarked that he had been
influenced by a very excellent treatise by Mr.
Meagh er , barrister-at-law.” Meagher wasn’t sure
whether to snnle or look sorry.
Of the first Australian Parliament—so
rapid are the changes in Australian politics—
hardly half still legislates. Death has P claimed
f , aw W ’v!r r - mar i£ nt ° ffice ln the Commonwealth a
?n V°r IVlOn ¥ ?u eat ma i° rit y of absentees.
So far none of the new members promise to
adequately fill the places of Barton Isaacs
Higgins, Bonython, Braddon and Turner in the
PfP 8, h? . fc h o Senate there is also a noticeable
falling-off in personnel.
Dr. David Paton, who died the other day
had been minister of Chalmers Church, Adelaide,
tor 30 years. He was a learned and precise little
nmn, about sft. high, and with P b“ght
gleaming behind glistening spectacles. A most
patriotic Australian, albeit born in Scotland he
managed to keep well abreast of matters relating
to this world as well as those connected with the
next. During the whole of his 30 years in Ade-
udeohe V as , never tll] end laid aside by
dispute.' and 16 n6Ver enfcered into a sectarian
S f § eneral manager of the
Lank °f N.S. Wales, will one day next week be
(>o—the age at which, in some bank services the
manager ,s liable to be called upon to Jen
out. Russell French might easily pass for' 50
bov U s g at 13 8 h g eTd ng ““t <* «&-
ooys at Id, he had climbed to the top when he
was only 47, and now he doesn’t ’bateone jot of
the magnificence of his office. A horrible tiling
hofidavs Tbe him the Christinas
hohdays. The question was whether the banks
should shut on the Monday. General manager
French was assured that if the banks asked for it
the holiday would be proclaimed. He hesitated
but was told that, as all the rest would follow his
lead, practically the holiday was awaiting his
He signed-and then Carrutlierf said
JNo. .though it was subsequently explained
that some legal difficulty had arisen, the general
manager of the Bank of N.S. W. had put himself
in the position of a school-youngster asking his
teacher for a holiday, and getting sent back to his
place, and told to keep to his sums. It was more
wormwood and gall than if the Commercial
next door had got one of “ the Wales’s ’’ best
accounts.
There died in England recently a Sydneyite
who had long been absent from his native city.
1830, Campbell Drummond Riddle came to
as Colonial Treasurer, in succession to
William Balcombe. The house known as “ Lar-
bert, in Maeleay-street, was built by him, and
rr V l as £ ne the early tenants of Lyons Terrace,
Hyde Park. His son, Rodney Stuart Riddle,
born in Sydney in 1838, died at Bath (England)
on .January 2, this year. The recently-dead man
was in the army, and served during the Maori
war.
Mrs. Skinner, proprietress of the oldest
second-hand bookselling establishment in Sydney,
or_ in New South Wales, died last week. The
original R. W. Skinner was a cordwainer by trade,
and took to book-selling— as Jerry Moore did—as an
additional means of income. In the early sixties
he was established on the site of the Temperance
Hall, in Pitt-street. He used to tell how a sailor
Sf.?l e in one day to sell a book. It was an old
, e “Treacle,” or “Breeches,” or “Bug,”
or _ Wicked ” Scripture, or something like that,
tokmner purchased the book and sent it to Lon-
don for sale. It brought £l2O at auction, and
from that he dated the foundation of his fortune.
Amongst recent deaths is that of Mr. Fred
Penny, J.P., an identity who, for some time,
tilled the post of licensing magistrate in Sydney,
and was an alderman in the old corporation. Mr.
least one weakness—he was present
of late years at every execution which took place
m Darhnghurst. In this peculiarity he followed
the late R. D. Ireland, Q.C., of Melbourne, who
never failed to put in an appearance when a man
was berng suspended. As a rule, Ireland became
deadly sick before the job was completed, and lost
the last half of the exhibition by leaning up in a
crumpled state against the wall. Still he went.
H. C. Russell, ex-Government Astronomer
for N.S.W., after some months of hopeless ill-
ness, passed to the other side of the stars, last
week, aged 70. He had a difficult row to hoe
between the meteorological and astronomical
brancnes of his work, and it used to be fashion-
able to rather deprecate his ability in both
sections. Still, he was undoubtedly a clever
man, and his ability has descended to his children.
Russell s best work was his share in the photo-
graphy of the celestial vault, undertaken by a
combination of the astronomers of the civilised
world, some years ago. No photographs sur-
passed those issued by the Sydney Observatory
despite the unfortunate site of the building.
Some Australian birthdays for March
Philip Fysh, 72 on the Ist; Edward Dyson, 42 on
the 4th; Surveyor-General Strawbridge (S.A.),
f>4 on the sth; J. Russell French (general
manager of the Bank of N.S. Wales), 60 on the
same date; Oscar Seppelt (S.A.), owner of the
biggest winery in Australia, 61 on the Bth ; artist
A, 0 ? , R ° berts - 61 on the 9th ; Judge Homburg
(S. A.), 59 on the 10th ; Rupert Clarke, 42, and
;T. Hector(M.L.),73on the 16th; E. W. O’Sullivan,
61 on the 17th ; Clem Hill, 30 on the 18tli; Bishop
u f a y r . (lV^' ait,and ’ N.S.W.), 79 on the 25th;
Rro . f - Mitcheil (S.A.), 46, and George Giffen
(S.A.), 46 on the 27th.
Federal Parliament opening was one of
the few occasions on which Alphabetical Order
harmonised with the fitness of things. “Adelaide”
was the first constituency on the Reps, list, and
so Charles Cameron Kingston was the first man to
step to the Speaker’s table to be sworn. Then
everybody cheered. Kingston, in one of the
intervals during which the House was waiting for
more fool-flummery to be performed, showed just
a flash of his old energy as he told brisk anecdotes
to a group round him. Mrs. Kingston, sitting
alone m the gallery, watched him anxiously.
MRS. J. C. WILLIAMSON AND FAMILY.
Photo. by Falk, Sydney.
■ When Justice Owen began business as
barrister in Sydney in 1860 the number of prac-
tising barristers in N.S.W. was 21.'-Of these
only himself and Justice G. B. Simpson are now
m harness. Two others, ex-Judges Stephen' and
Foster, are on pension. The rest are uriefer-
ground.
™ain Walker, M.L.C., of Windsor
UVS.YV.), poet, lawyer, and legislator, has been
|°Z^AT mber ° f the Le tdslative Council.
Betore that he was nine years member of the
f^ IVe Assembly ’ Bering that Chamber in
1860—there was a gap of nearly 20 years between
into d thp r) tUl u fr ° m th u live i House and llis en try
of thr h N S 6 W°r e ~Ti 18 th " S the oldest member
ot the N.S.W. Legislature. He still writes verses
commits reminiscences to paper, draws up wills’
and composes Bills for Parliament. P ’
THE COMPETENCE.
"Ah! Wot a thing it is to marry money!
Your Bill don’t ever need to work, the lucky
dorg.”
From The Bulletin’s oldest inhabitant
A half line in the papers says that the public school-
teacher at Gobbitty, near Camden (N.S.W.), is to have a
new residence, i So the old school-house goes, presum-
ably ; and, in a way, it is historic. It was part of the
St. 1 aul s church property, and is built up against the
tombstones. The present church dates from 1840 • the
Rev. Thomas Hassell opened it. Hassell was the son’of a
lay missionary who went to Tahiti in 1796 ; and being
driven off by the natives, came to N.S.W. Parson Hassell
jun., married a daughter of Parson Marsden. In 1826 he
bought the property, “Denbigh,” near Cobbitty—native
name “Cobbadee.” The homestead was surrounded
by a stout paling fence Bft. high intended to keep out
bushrangers. In the same year (1826) Mr. Hassell com-
menced his church building—i he place lately used as a
school-house and teachers’ residence, and n< w to be
superseded. The Rev. J. S. Hassell, son of Tom Hassell
was one of the first six King’s School scholars. He die d
a couple of years ago at Brisbane. The parish of St
Paul, including this Cobbitty, is unique in the matter of
ministers; it has had only three in 80 years—Thomas
Hassell, who lived until 1867 ; Mr. Pain, now Bishop
of Gippsland ; and the present vicar, Rev. G. H. Allnut.,
From “H.G-.,” who seems to know some
bad characters :
Frederick Ogle (better known
as Lamerce), sentenced, in Mel-
bourne, last week, to five years
for fraud, is one of Australia’s
post picturesque criminals. He
is tall, “distinguished-looking,”
invariably well-dressed, and with
an accent and bearing that
suggest 14 quarterings on his
escutcheon and the habit of call-
ing the Governor-General “ Bill.”
Fitted, with a pair of grandiose
yellow moustaches and the long,
wistful legs of a London Journal
hero, Ogle, at 61 years of age,
impresses the stranger as a re-
tired British general, or a mem-
ber of the House of Lords study-
ing the blawsted Kawlinies. He
can talk with knowledge—or
what looks like knowledge—on
every subject, from the psychol-
ogy of the Persians of 106 B.C.
to the architecture of the Aztecs ;
and in finance he can give the
Bankers’ Institute 80 points in
100 every time—or at least he
sounds like it. Ogle is the spieler
splendid. He was originally a
beer drummer in Dublin, and
emigrated to Australia 25 years
ag'o with a sufficienc}' of wealth
acquired by his share of an artis-
tic forgery of a bunch of title
deeds purporting to have been
issued in the time of Brian Boru
and Fin-Ma-Coul. Here the
money went in joyous, aristo-
cratic ways, and, after nar-
rowly escaping election to the
Melbourne Club, Ogle took to
looking for more old title-deeds
to manipulate! But the oldest
in Victoria—the one which Jagga
Jagga gave John Ba nian—.is
locked up in the Public Library,
and the artist found that there
vvas little to do in his special
line. After a few brilliant years,
he got down to a varied and pre-
carious existence. Yet when he
had stolen something large, he
still lived at society hotels,
mingled with the Very Best
People, and vvore raiment like
unto the beautiful young man on
the tailors’posters. He carried
magnificent, but never ostenta-
tious, jewellery, and his taste in
barmaids was regarded as a
model to the gilded youth of
Melbourne. With another “ gun,” ' said to be a
relative, Ogle carried out one of the most audacious
perpetrated in Australia since the days of
the system, hut the picturesque incident was never
allowed to become public. A Victorian Judge, strolling
up Bourke-sfcreet one day, encountered a man whom
three months previously, he had sent to g-aol for a year
??,ru W^ nt , t 0 the Chief Secretary and said
Whaffor. This led to the discovery of a whole series
of forgeries in the gaol books, whereby the sentences of
financial prisoners were largely reduced for cash.
Ogle ‘outside” collected the fees, while his
mate “inside” faked the books in accordance with
instructions smuggled in with the usual prison “stiff.”
Though there was no prosecution, Ogle fled to Sydnev
where he fell in to the extent of a seven years* sent-
ence for complicity in the celebrated “ Long Kirin”
frauds. His last exit from the outer world was accom-
plished with a splash which might have proved one of
the sensations of the day. When he surrendered to his
bail at the Criminal Court there was found on him a re-
volver loaded in five chambers. Judge Johnston seemed
to think that the weapon was meant for him, but proba-
bly Ogle, aged 61, intended to shoot himself in court, in
a large, gaudy fashion, in the event of his getting a long
sentence. He was much too polished and affable to
shoot at a Judge.
A certain N.S.W. town was, some years
ago, the proud possessor of a self-made “m-m
who became councillor, J.P., e tc. But the
wife of his early days
didn’t rise to the level of
his new greatness, and
when brother coun-
cillors and other
truly important
men were invited
to the house, the
eldest daughter
did the honors.
The wife was gen-
erally banished
with the remark,
G o to the kitchen,
woman, it’s your proper
‘ spear.’ ” She died sud-
denly in the kitchen at
last, and her husband, no
onger trammelled by com-
mon or vulgar associations,
soared to the dignity of
mayor.
“ J.Y.”: Be the names
of the working bullock. In
the early days of M.L.
history this writer’s father
worked side by side with
poor old dead and gone
Conservative William
Rolleston, whose occupation
at that time was driving a
team of bullocks. The
names of the historic team
were: “Merry,” “Cherry,”
“Brindle,” “Lion,” “Bar-
ney,” “ Spot,” and “ Whoa-
cum-ither.” And, in after
years, during the Parlia-
mentary career of that
somewhat dismal old Tory,
he never handled as useful a
team.
One Sydney law office has
had awful luck. Two of the
brightest ornaments in the way of
articled clerks it ever turned out
have been struck off the rolls; a
third has been cited to appear to “show
cause ” ; and the boss himself is now a
missing Gent One.
I). A. Crosby, Labor candidate, who was
first announced as elected for the Senate in South
Australia by 14 votes, and subsequently declared,
on a re-count, to be defeated by 44 votes, died at
Port Pirie on Feb. 19. It was currently supposed
that excitement over the re-count and disap-
pointment at his defeat helped to bring about
Lis end. As a matter of fact, he was, never made
aware of his defeat, and died under the impres-
sion that he was a Senator.
A Pleasant Sunday Afternoon’s reading
for Bleeds Fitchett from the Saturday Review
notice of his latest book, “ Wesley and his
Century ” :
This is a pretentious and vulgar work, in which the
author patronises Wesley, the eighteenth century, and
the English Church in the style of the cheapest pro-
vincial journalism. His verbosity is astonishing. He
has collected a large amount of information more or less
relevant, but has taken no trouble to impart it accu-
rately, or to maintain consistency. On one page we find
the school in which Wesley was reared described as the
purely mechanical religion of a prim High Churchman ;
we turn over a few leaves and find that he was bred in
“an atmosphere charged vvith prayer as with the
fragrance of an ever-burning incense.” The writer is the
slave of phrases, and of phrases so monotonous in their
tawdriness that it is impossible to read him with patience.
If it were not for his invincible ignorance, we could only
attribute his extravagance of praise and blame to sheer
impudence. But he is thoughtless and intoxicated by
rhetoric, and, doubtless, his position as “Principal of the
Methodist Ladies’ College ” at Melbourne is demoralising
to a person of his temperament. An attentive and appa-
rently docile audience must encourage his flights ; but
unless his pupils are very unlike the High School girls of
England, he is ridiculed behind his back.
In a way, The Bulletin, begins to feel almost
sorry for Fitchett. He fed Australia with the
same drunken stuff—Fitchett was “intoxicated ”
on blood as well as rhetoric just then—and Aus-
tralia, being to some extent also drunk at the
moment, its cowardly dailies (most of whom really
knew better) proclaimed Fitchett a great writer ;
and toadying Education Departments boomed
him even as a historian. Encouraged that way,
Fitchett puffed himself up until he attracted the
notice of even the Saturday Review. And now
such things as the foregoing are happening to him.
THE SECRET OF BEAUTY
1 ies to a great extent in the beauty of the teeth-
The teeth are to the face as flowers are to the
garden, the finest ornament. The care of the
teeth is therefore of vast importance to the
preservation of beauty. Odol is the best preser-
vative. Odol has also been"* proved by eminent
authorities to meet all the requirements of hygiene.
Odin' is not only more agreeable ai.u m mg
to use than any known tooth preparation, it is
also more efficacious. Its antiseptic and re-
freshing properties are unique, it is a deodoriser
and perfectly innocuous to the most sensative
mouth. Don’t forget also that, being liquid, it
penetrates everywhere, not merely as tooth-soaps
and powders, brushing the surface. One feels
directly after use that it is doing wonders for the
mouth, and the antiseptic effects lasts for hours
after application.


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution!
30,000 Customers Served Dai
taaress.?;
a 3
a =
fa
a 5
3 a
* at
@3^
gur.ii
Ps*>
piiilii
i iln| l ||l"l I MIl l I /
111
E=S
I ■
"
gs<*f3
/•ii - ,wyit
ilill
} \ j
wiii
.niijjHiaHiliiJlfcij;
1 in
HHi
itiu.liii
H
s
nllßi
I
i&:-A
W;a»
1
n
1
gp#
pfej§
jjgawrjj?
54
““
11
sen
s*«
SSX
llpllll
LLi.
338
5^
=M
ia
aCS&B
§ ii!
■U Ifit
m mmm
assxifi
ViM
mA
£
ERSAL PROVIDESS. SYDNEY N. 5.
MEN’S BOOTS
at Anthony Hordern’s
Famous Low Prices.
No. 239.
Best French Calf Hand Sewn Elastic
Side Boots, broad toes, no toe-caps, 14/6.
POSTAGE EXTRA ...
No. 246.
Patent Calf Dress Boots,
15/6.
No. 238.
R. S. Boots— Calf, 11/6;
Tan or Glace Kid, 14/6.
No. 227.
Heavy Box Calf Lace-up Boots,
Wide Welts, 16/6.
No. 221.
Glace Kid Lace-up Boots — 7/11.
10/6, 11/6, 12/6, 14/6, 16/6,
18/6.
No. 225.
Calf rert>y Balmorals, Square
Toes, 15/6 ; Round Toes, 16/6.
]*o. 232.
Glace Kid Lace-up Boots, 16/6;
Or in Tan Kid, 16/6 ;
American —Pingree’s, 19/6.
No. 249.
Patent CaTf Bntton-np Dress
Boots, 16/6, 18/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS £> &
New Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY.


&
$
Jc.C>
DYMOCK’S CIRCULATING LIBRARY is with
out doubt the best institution of the kind in N.S.W. All
the best books are received by post from the publishers,
in more than adequate quantities, to meet any demand.
At other libraries it is found that members have often to
wait weeks for a popular book, but Dymock’s supply the
books asked for at once. Country members may have a
parcel of eight books exchanged as desired for the sum of
£2 12s. 6d. p.a., or £llls. 6d. for six months ; city and
suburban members, two books and two magazines daily
for the sum of £2 2s. p.a., or £1 ss. for six months;
one book and one magazine, £1 Is. p.a., or 12s. 6d. for
six months ; larger parcels and shorter periods at propor-
tionate rates. Every section of literature is represented,
including Fiction, Travel, History, Reminiscence, Belle
Lettres. All volumes are clean and fresh, each is covered
in a neat green cloth. Write for Catalogues to Dymock’s
Book Arcade, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Your Cough will go. —When the inflammation
caused by a cold invades the tissues of the lungs and
bronchial tubes, we have a cough. The way to cure a
cough is to allay the inflammation. And that’s just
what Senior’s Black Currant Balsam does—it gets at the
seat of trouble and removes the cause. A cough will not
last long with this treatment. Try it if you are cough-
ing’. It’s the most pleasant tasting remedy you’v»
tried. Obtainable everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s Pharmacy, 246
George-street, Sydney.* y
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINT AGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
TRADE
maVkTHE varnished board
e>9
Dress fAßßies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers,
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
[Sydney, February 26, 1907.
My Dear Arini.
most tangled story of the years is about
at. •~/’ en ?* 1 pnnce and an American singer;
At the time of their meeting the prince was the
husoand (in England) of a lady with whom his
marriage had been voided (in France), said lady
having been previously freed from a former union.
±he lady he met—the American singer—was the
wife of a man who had also been divorced before
he married her, and her mother had divorced her
father and re-married the son (by his second wife)
of a man who was deeply in love with her (there
is no information as to whether the first wife of
the father-in-law, who was deeply in love with
his daughter-in-law, was divorced, but presumably
she was). The affinity of much divorce brought
the prince and singer together, and thev took a
tour round the world to give the lady’s husband a
chance of getting his second divorce. The lady
and prince are now married until the next divorce
happens along, and the prince posseses a wife in
America and another in England. How he stands
in xranee is doubtful. The alleged romance
reads something like a puzzle. Under the cir-
cumstances, what relationship has the lady’s step-
grandfather who admired her mother, to the
prince s first wife’s first husband’s first wife’s
divorced father’s second wife ? And if not whv
isn t it ? > j
Our beloved Excellency Rawson wears the
mourning bands for his sister Lady de Winton
widow of Major-General Sir F. Walter de Winton!
A son of the late Baronet de Bathe arrived in
Sydney last week from Maoriland. He has a run
there, or, as his late father would say, a sheep-
walk. He is not the heir, nor is he Mrs. Langtry’s
husband that spark was in India when the
demise occurred; but it seems the correct thing
to go * Home ” when your aristocratic father has
departed, and stand about a while in the grass
adjacent to the tomb.
Charitable societies feel like printing their
annual reports in rose-colored inks, so consider-
able is the decrease in poverty. Times are
said to be flourishing, and we are understood
to be bulged out with money (for which there are
no investments), but to the small wage-earner the
times are much the same as they were during the
lean years passed. Possibly his poor billet is more
secure, but he rarely profits by his employer’s
success. The Child Study Association has among
its cases a child suffering from diseases brought
on by mal-nutrition—a child whose father gets
J7s. a week. A man, his wife, and three children
existing on 275. a week—and seven of the shillings
go for rent! Think of the kind of housing avail-
able for that sum ! Of course, the whole five
must be suffering from mal-nutrition.
Another bright Sydney girl has just earned the
right to point to a gorgeous consular uniform and
say that the man inside is hers. On the 14th of
this month the Spirit breathed over Miss Maud
Sams and Jose Balthasar, who is a wool-buyer
when he isn’t consulting for his little Belgium.
By the Marmora this Wednesday the consul
takes the bride off to Europe, to show Antwerp
i U^ se^s tlat Australia grows some treasures
that don t sprout wool.
H. Pinhey goes by the Orotava, on
March 9, to visit her daughter Rosina. It will be
remembered that the Rosina Sydneysider made a
rosy success in Italian opera last year in Italy
Mama Pinhey will be away six months.
A local girl, aged tweuty-one, pretty, possessed
of money, and of quite a “nice” North Shore
Line family, evidently agrees with the opinion
that a woman may safely marry a man her junior
So she has wedded a boy of 17. It looks like
kidnappmg. Yet if she were 40 and he 25 their
wedding wouldn t cause any particular comment.
. Colman Burke, head of a French wine firm
in this city, left yesterday by the Dumbea on a
visit to the fair far country of France, where
there are vines and romance and absinthe and
wooden shoes and people who say “Oui.”
Miss Dorothy Dibbs, youngest daughter of the
Roman-nosed manager of the Commercial Bank
has housekeeping cares ahead of her. They are a
long way ahead, it s true, but she’s already picked
who is share them with her—Mr
Willie Ritchie, of Christchurch (M.L.) He is
an electrical engineer. Every fourth man one
meets would seem to be of the same calling.
Mr. Ernest Tyson—a nephew of the late mil-
lionaire of the name-died, aged 33, at Lewisham
Hospital on Sunday. He came into prominence
some years ago through a breach of promise case
m which actress Carrie Moore was the other half
ot the disturbance.
Mr. Frank Coffee, of Chatswood, is back, by
Sonoma, from Starring and Striping. Sydney
citmen Spruson returns by the Sierra next week
By the Sonoma came also Herr Rittershafer the
chemist, who was sent to the Samoan Islands by
hls Government to exterminate rats. If he’d only-
stop in Sydney we’d give him a stiddy job The
Herr has a present for the Kaiser—a Dodo bird
whatever that may be. ’
That lively lady who was Mrs. Lawson, of Mel-
bourne, and a cousin of Rupert Clarke, and who
is now Mrs. Ballance, of San Frisky, is called the
Australian Consul. The name is affectionately
bestowed by reason of her great and active in-
terest in young Australians. She is said to get
them billets and give them solace and advice. As
there are some thousands of Australians in the
neighborhood of San Fran, it is to be hoped the
whole squadron don’t assail the lady for simul-
taneous solace.
The death of Mrs. Kate Rolleston (widow of
Ohnstopher Rolleston, who came squatting to
New South Wales m 1838, and afterwards entered
tbe Civil Service as private secretary to Governor
enison and ended as Auditor-General) causes the
old home, North Cliff, overlooking Lavender
Bay, to be sold by auction. “Old homes” in
Australia have a tendency that way. When the
old people go the young ones sell up every-
thing and divide, “ each going his several way.”
Mr. Isodore Kozminsky, who knows all about
mummy Pharaohs, and is reported to have some of
them in his attic, and who could an he would
write his love letters in cuneiform characters, has
gone to Melbourne to say “I will” in the
presence of the parson. His bride is Miss
Watkins, a daughter of the Yarra City doctor.
It is strange to reflect that the stuffed king in the
bridegroom’s attic said the same thing 6000 years
ago.
Mr. Haynes, the leading K.C. of Westralia,
passed through Sydney, the other day, en route
for his home. But he will be back in this city in
a few months to be married. Mr. Haynes is a
widower, also he has a beautiful humpy in Perth.
Reading in an English paper of Walter Kirby
warbling before their Majesties at Chatsworth,
the -Duke of Devonshire’s place, I came on the
remainder of the programme. It included songs
by a Serene Highness and Lady Maud War-
render—the latter was staying at Melbourne
Government House with the Brasseys fora while,
and is a handsome woman. But the peas de
resistongs, as Mrs. Buster-Cross would say, was a
w T itten by R - °. Carton, and entitled
ihe Ninth Waltz. ’ The King is said to have
enjoyed it more than all the other items. A
viscount and a pretty member of the house party
acted the dialogue, and here are some of the say-
mgs that specially tickled the King :
The meaning of Society is that a certain number of
people bind themselves by unwritten law to be bored
through a London season, sometimes in battalions, some-
times at dinner parties or on yachts." “ This year we
l larrowe d our skirts and broadened our views.”
We have learned to go down hill a little faster, and some
of us are doing it on wheels.” “ A disease we share in
common is boredom. You hunted Boers (the hero
was a soldier) with powder and shot, but we hunt lions
with cards of invitation.”
And when the lady in the case described her life
as mostly consisting of going to the same places
at the same time every year to meet the same
people, his Majesty nearly burst the ribbon of
the garter off his sacred chest. He must like guff
at which a Sydney audience would point derisive
thumbs.
Saw the first cactus dahlias of the season to-day
on an early morning ferry boat. White, shades
ot purplish pink, and reddish brown. The bunch
was carried by a man (men are fonder of children
and flowers than are women), and several other
men dropped their morning papers and with
knitted brows discussed the blooms separately—
petal by petal, so to speak—as if they were intri-
cate law points. Owner did a lot of explaining
about “joints” and “ shoots ” and “ buddings”
and sports.” One of the blooms carried a bud,
and the way the grower apologized for that poor
u L He ilad J' ust left ifc to let a fellow in
the office see... by right he ought to have taken
it off directly it appeared. It was evidently
illegitimate, he was so ashamed of it.
Preliminary work in connection with the First
—• H®tra.lian Exhibition of AVomen’s Work is nearly
finished. Lady Northcote will give a prize of £lO
a? ejection with the Women’s Exhibit from
JN.b. W., and Miss Rawson will give one of £5.
Miss Bricknell, for ten years in charge of the
Carrington Convalescent Hospital, has departed
from that institution to marry Dr. Dunlop of
Newcastle.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Connor, of Westralia (who
were in Sydney a year or so ago, and were much
fussed over by R.C. society), left Perth for
Europe a few weeks ago. Dr. and Mrs. Hackett
have also gone—by the Mongolia. Dr. Hackett
runs so many side shows in addition to bossing
the weighty West Australian that some alarm
was felt as to whether Westralia wouldn’t go
adrift in his absence, and be no longer there on
his return A Cabinet meeting finally decided
that if the State was tied with a good, thick rope
t° S.A. at one end and the Territory at the other,
it might take the risk, provided the doctor doesn’t
stay away too long and keeps an eye on things by
cablegram.
One of the minor side-show humors of Sydney
these Summer morns is to be found in the ladies’
baths. Sea baths, of course. “ The gentleman
what saves your life ” —that is the young man who
leans over the railing, looking, half-asleep, at the
tumbling, swimming, paddling, screaming Femi-
nines, aged from five to fifty—well, it’s a pity
that man can’t write. Perhaps he can, but won’t
for fear of losing his billet. To be asked by a
frantic woman to come in and look for her artifi-
cial teeth is no uncommon request. And more
than once whilst ivory hunting he has found
diamond rings or bangles on the sea-floor.
Sometimes a damsel will come into the wet
with her hair tied on top with a wide, coquettish
bow, wearing swimming gloves, and perhaps with
her monogram on her tights. A family party
doing a bob up and down in a foot of water
will be certain to remark that she is “dread-
fully overdressed.” Women are almost un-
recognisable to each other in their untailored
state. In a scanty garment, hair screwed up
under a cap or wide hat, face wet and reddened,
a woman may swim up close to her dearest friend
and not be recognised at the first glance. One
woman’s sense of humor nearly drowned her a
Sunday ago. She was lying on her back, floating,
with an old hat tipped over her eyes, when two
acquaintances arrived. One had got into the
water when the other hurried out of her cubicle,
and, leaning over the railing, screamed, “ Katie’
Katie, ou es tu ?- Katie was quite visible
in the middle of the sheet of water, but
the screamer wanted to give her atom of
French the benefit of sea air. Katie evi-
dently could not recall the French equivalent for
“ Here,” so she said it as it is written. “ I have
forgotten our towel,” wailed the woman at the
railing, her French also going back on her. Katie
stared at her a second, made a kick at a squid with
a serviceable foot, rallied all her French forces, and
sortied so : “0, Marie , nous sommes dans puree. ”
(“We are in the soup.” As you speak nothing
but Maori, it’s only fair to translate.)
It was at this point that the floating Fright
floundered, took a lungful of water, and went
under. Frog, as she was spoke in those baths,
nearly drowned her. But seriously (and drown-
ingly), isn’t it a fact that persons who take up a
foreign language late in life are bursting to utter
strange words in public—in their first quarter ? I
know a most worthy lady who never meets me
without contriving to say “Wong,” “ Wee,” and
“ Femayle law ported All these things are French
—and the last means “Shut the door.”
But to return to our fishes : Most humorous
time to come back from the damp but bracing
element is about 10.30. The trams, already well
stocked with homing swimmers, pick up the
church-goers. The latter, although they may
have pickled themselves in the same briny three
hours earlier, now eye the damp contingent with
the kit of towels, brushes, and bathing togs most
disdainfully. Tram conductors call the mixed
assemblage “ Cleanliness and Godliness.” Latter
are in filmy voiles, embroidered muslins, and
hatted with what their milliners call “confec-
tions ” ; or in black frock coats and black British
hats. And the children—well, I saw a group last
Sabbath five strong, and even the youngest sprout
had tight brown kids encasing hi 3 chubby little
Saws. A fierce sun smote down out of a sky of
ot blue enamel, and the wretched mite was dis-
solving visibly.
Rose Musgrove has got to the stage of wanting
to return here. Her leisure seems to be one long,
varied, dazzling fly-round. All the same, she
wants to get really sunburnt again. Cyril Maude
has an engagement for her, but it is some distance
off.
A slight revival of interest in the memory of
Augusta Dargon, the tragic actress, has occurred
through an auction announcement. The theatri-
cal wardrobe used by her in Shakspearian roles,
and a lot of playbooks, as well as the cottage once
occupied by her at Strathfield, are to be sold by
order of her executors. As Mrs. (Dr.) Piercy she
was a favorite in private life here.
Miss Hilda Meade, who makes such a ripping
old spinster in “ A Modern Judas,” is a Sydney
girl, raised in Maoriland. To assume a disguise
(like that demanded by the man-pursuing part)
must be an infliction on a pretty young woman,
but Miss Meade seems to enjoy the corkscrew
curls, Sally Brass bonnet, and grease-paint
wrinkles. The type of old maid she represents is
Dickensonian, and there’s nothing like her to-day
except in frantic melodrama, or in those prim New
England stories, published in dreary American
magazines, with faint-grey illustrations. There
her name is Hephzibah, and she has a romance
which consists in the fact that Zebedeeonce looked
at her thoughtfully when she was young, and said
“ Haow ! ”
Ada Ward, who was struck on the top of the
head with the grace of God some fifteen years ago
(when stage engagements were hanging fire), is
thus described by a correspondent who knew her
in Melbourne when she was there about ’93:
‘‘ Very tall and willowy and coppery-haired, with
blue eyes and a complexion that goes with sandy
hair—slightly freckled. She had an appealing
look in those blue eyes, and used to carry a pet
dog*, and sit in the Botanic Gardens, and say that
‘Dr. Neild liked her because she was a student.’ ”
On a previous visit, some years before, she had a
most triumphant tour, and it was in Brisbane (or
somewhere in Queensland) that she was supposed
to have married the late Julian Thomas (“The
Vagabond ”). To this day Victorians will tell you
that fair Ada was Mrs,** Vagabond” Thomas. But
the bright writer’s best act (and thousands may be
put to his account) was his celibacy. For he had
a pig-dog’s temper. Miss Ward had many suitors,
and “ The Vag.” wasn’t the only one she refused!
The same correspondent goes on : “Remember
an advertisement picture of a woman’s hand—a
beautiful hand with a ring on the ‘engaged’
finger and a line of lace at the wrist—that was on
every hoarding some years ago ? It advertised a
certain soap, and ‘ a perfect hand, ’ which was the
legend tacked to the member, was supposed to be
acquired by washing the human paw with that
soap. It was Miss Ward’s hand, and the ring
was presented by one of the wealthy, soapy
proprietors.”
And now the once golden-haired, sweet-voiced
woman is a Salvationist, and is coming out, it is
surmised, on a “ saving ” errand.
Miss Elaine Feez, the 16-year-old daughter of
one of the Brisbane legal families of that name,
who is studying music under Stavenhagen at
Munich, is evidently on the road to success. She
recently appeared at a concert given by Staven-
hagen to introduce his two most advanced pupils
(Frau Kahl-Deeker and Fraulein Bogel), who,
after eight years’ study, were making their dtbut
as professional pianistes. Miss Feez was the only
other performer, and of her the Theater and
Musik Zeitung said
Fraulein Feez commenced with the Concerto in A
Major. We have already had an opportunity of admirino-
this young lady as an able pianiste and one to be taken
earnestly ; she has an extraordinary talent, and possesses
for her youth an astounding technique. It isn’t to be
wondered at that delicate maiden hands can’t possess
the strength to penetrate through a powerful orchestra,
especially in the passages where the horns enter The
young lady received great applause, and also beautiful
floral offerings.
That is good, solid praise, anyhow.
The CosMoroLiTAN Magazine reports some-
thing that occurred lately. An American
gentleman and his wife were onlv just in time at
a London railway station to catch their train to
connect with the New York steamer at Liverpool.
However, a porter said there was no room. Run-
ning up and down the train the American saw a
compartment with only one man in it. “Here
you are ! ” said he, and bundled his wife and bag-
gage in. The horrified porter exclaimed, “That’s
the Duke of Norfolk 1 Nobody else is allowed to
travel in the compartment.” The Duke sat like
a graven image, never uttering a word. “Has
he paid for all the seats ? ” asked the American.
“No.” “Well, here I stop.” Up came the
stationmaster with an imperative “ You must get
out.” “Not till you throw me out,” said the
American. A move of the train cut the argu-
ment short, and Mr. and Mrs. American went on
with the graven image.
“Can you Zancig?” is now the question in
London. The star Bridge player is no longer of
account. Everyone is trying to find another
Soul so in accord with his or her own that tele-
pathic communication may take the place of
’phoning, writing, speaking, and cursing. Tele-
pathic communion is quite simple, I believe. You
first catch your kindred Soul. Then you lasso
an idea, and press the button of your mind, and
the Soul’s bell rings or something, and communi-
cation is established.
talking of the stage, does anyone remember
a girl named Essie Graham, described as a former
member of J.C.W.’s chorus? A Sydneysider
recently returned from the States, tells how Essie
saw his name on the register of a Fifth Avenue
hotel, and drove to call on him in an auto-mo-
beel. Her colored boy, in a neat uniform with
silver bells tinkling on the shoulders, like the
sledge that Edgar Allan Poe wrote about, brought
up her card. She rained questions on him about
dear old Sydney, and Jack This, and Billy That,
and Mister So-and-So, and Senator Blank.
The innocent Australian abroad thought b P
knew what fun was-but, after Essie
recitals of the sporting times she and the Dashes
had at Coogee and St. Kilda, he Bays he Sort
have missed everything. J e must
My Brisbane correspondent writes
Fleet Paymaster Pollock and wifev demrt w
ful city, in a few weeks time, on a SKSLf&S*-
after 24 years’ solid graft. Fragile Mrs.
if a long voyage was the only thing to prevent her
away altogether. About the only thing left of WLn &
,ito ,he 01 “•«»&!x? ?»"&"£
-saassasia&a
Eights fought out between the Blues (Commerckß? ? the
Bnsbanes, and the Wide Bay Foundry lads. No one though t
much of the Foundry-lads’ chances, as they only landed
in Brisbane at midnight on Friday, and were ill all the
way down. Well, they got to bed at two rose it nine
and at 4.3° p.m. they donkey-licked the representatives
of the two gorgeous clubs over a three-mile course and
P u l ed j V p t? s fresh as daisies - How the wet crowd
cheered! Even the losers feel that the whole victorious
boat load had better be sent to Adelaide this year if
Queensland is to have a. look-m at the inter-State match
There s very httie of the college stroke about them, but
for getting through the water there are worse things
than an eight-hour day in a foundry. K
A sad sequel to the death of pretty Nina Clerk was the
announcement of the funeral of “Mrs Noel Drurv ”
When all that medical skill could do had failed a clergy
man was summoned, and the dying girl became the bride
of a man who, two hours later, was a widower The
simple plate upon the coffin-lid read, “ My beloved’wife."
Now that Minister for Lands Joey Bell is the father of a
fine young son, he affects a beaming interest in every
little guttersnipe that runs into him. Indeed he is one
whole beam these days.
Our clever Society danseuse, Miss Brenda Macalister
goes southward on Tuesday, and will arrive about the
same time that this does. Miss Brenda is a kittensome
frolicker, with a light fantastic toe that can measure a
6ft. mark, and look fetching all the time.
The rain which has rained incessantly since Friday
quite spoiled the meet at Tatts., on Saturday last, as far
as the women were concerned. It was a wet, water-
proofed male crowd that cheered the neddies up the
straight, and it got mud in its eye for its pains. A few
womenfolk attended, however, and these apparently
struck it rich, and returned to town triumphant, if
draggle-tailed.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
1.0.Gr.T. wants advice :
Can you tell me a good cure for absent-mindedness?
X have been suffering from it for a long time, and this
is how it assaults me :
I know of two things which are wanting to be done at
once, so I usually compromise, with such results as
these
Before going to bed one evening I went into the bath-
room to wash ; it was necessary to light the gas. Turned
on water tap and placed lighted match beneath it.
Another evening, just before going out, I noticed that
my hands required washing and boots cleaning. Cleaned
my boots with the wet nail brush.
Coming home at 6 o’clock one evening, I noticed from
the outside that the hall gas should be lighted. Instead
of opening door with latchkey, and then lighting gas, I
struck match, and put it to the keyhole.
Now, what I am afraid of is that at election time, when
I am told to strike a blow for the purity of the home, and
to vote for Bruce Smith, I may, in my usual fashion, run
the two ideas together, and strike Smith.
It’s not always the fastest woman who
catches a husband.
FAMOUS BEAUTY PREPARATIONS.— VaIaze
—This Dainty Russian Skin Food needs no introduction.
It is used from one end of Australia to the other. It is a
toilet essential to the woman who values her good looks.
Valaze gives to its every user a clear, radiant complexion,
extracting all impurities from the skin, and making it as
soft and sweet as that of childhood. Guaranteed not to
encourage the growth of hair. 3s. 6d and 6s. jar (contain-
ing three times the quantity); postage 6d. Rusmo Hair.
Killer, a Russian preparation for instantly removing
superfluous hairs from the face, neck, and arms. Leaves
no after trace. Cannot harm the most sensitive skin.
Widely used in European Beauty Circles. 55.; posted,
under cover, ss. 3d. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore
Cure, a certain remedy for coarse skins, drawing the
pores together, and clearing away blackheads like magic.
Dr. Lykuski, the Russian Discoverer of Valaze, makes this
preparation. It is endorsed by the medical faculty.
2s. 6d. box, posted 3s. Valaze Herbal Soap, most sooth-
ing to the skin, contains no alkali; prepared from
almonds and rare herbs. One cake lasts thrice as long
as ordinary complexion soap, 2s. cake ; posted, 2s. 2d.
Valaze Skin Lotion, for greasy skins. 2s. 6d. bottle,
postage 6d. Valaze Face Powder, purely herbal, con-
taining-no bismuth, lead, or mercury. Shields the face
from wind and weather, 25., posted 2s. 2d. All these
preparations sold by Chemists everywhere, or direct from
Mile. H. Rubinstein and Co., 158 Pitt-st., Sydney, and
274 Collins-st., Melbourne.


EVER
TRY
M
HAMS AND BACON ?
If you have never tried this famous
brand of Hams and Bacon you can
have no idea how delicious they are.
You have longed for sweet breakfast
oauju but have never been able to get
it. You CAN get it in Q.M.E. It is
surpassingly delicious, and always the
same.
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR Q.M.E.
HAMS OR BACON, NEXT TIME.
WS2I-
Q
Outwear
TWO
PAIRS
of
Leather
Heele.
a lot or
COMFORT AT
LITTLE COST
DUNLOP
RUBBER
Enable you to wall*
on Hard Pavements
WITHOUT JAR
. to feet or Nerves.
Itry a pair
1 And you will ne
% surprised at tilt
l ■ feeling of
l Si COMF
I\ they
t ensure.
ORT
r
Accept
Only
"DUNLOP®
Brands
Stocked iti Varioo*
Patterns by alt
Leading Boot Stores
I
111
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
WE STOCK and Manufacture to order
CONVEYOR and VANNER BELTS,
in Any Length or Sixe, same as
now used with success by many
of the Leading Australian Mines,
AIR DRILL HOSE, . . . SUCTION
and DELIVERY HOSE, . . VALVES,
PACKINGS and Every Description
of Rubber Goods required for
Mining. Quality of Material
and Workmanship—THE BEST.
Tenders and Samples Submitted
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, BrtebaflQ,
And Christchurch, N.Z.
03
S 3
AND
Supporters
“ Garments fitted with Kleinert’s Dress
Shields and Kleinert’s Hose Supporters
bear the indefinable Stamp of Style.”
This is the Verdict oi Three Continents.
PD
tlLuu i SHAPE,
lOOTm 1
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne February 25, 1907.
Mt Dear Yarrie,—
The curtain was rung up on the Federal Houses
of Wisdom in a double-bevelled style, laste-
boards summoned the Elect at half-past two, and
it gathered sharp to the appointed tick. Ut
course, space gave out, and a flock ot ®£e-
malcontents rustled from qne Charon to another
demanding each a red-cushioned seat, and tossing
off to another of the species when the first shook
his official nut in regret that no red seats remained
for the mighty. This was for the swearing-in of
new brethren of the Chambers of Wisdom.
At 4 30 there was the second ceremony, when the
Vice-Regals clattered in, and a big band blew
music notes at the Spring-street throng, and the
old procession of brass and braid Colonels fi
into the Senate to add weight and clatter and
ironmongery to the show. _
In the Senate crush were no fashionables of any
importance. Where Mrs. Isaacs and her loorak
cronies used to pose sat a row of frumpy
unknowns. Dame Forrest and ex-Treasuier
Turner’s two chicks were relics of gaudier Senate
times. The Westralian chieftamess sported a
top-piece of much plumage, and a giddier rig than
is her wont at such affairs. The G.-G. dame was
burdened with rich apparel in reminiscent mauve
tones, and a poetic millinery effect like unto an
ecstasy of wine-washed roses. In the gallery was
a bunch of busy political marms, including Mrs.
George Fairbairn in clothes of great price and
much ostrich as a head-mount.
Mrs. Deakin is the one high dame who does not
haunt the benches of the House when Parliament
is hatching Bills. She prefers to walk out under
the generous green oaks of the Gardens, or drift
beside the tall, upright pines, or to sauntei
on the glad terrace lawns —when she s not dipping
into Higher Thought literature or strumming
Chopin studies. The other political dames fuss
round the galleries, and cackle at the tea-tables,
and generally conduce to a strong petticoat influ-
ence, which element the cynical attendants of the
House regard with a distrustful and unfriendly
eye.
The Stonington dame packs up her tropical rigs
for a voyage in the Mooltan with his Ex. and a
nicely-matched pair of aides. The loorak set,
which is supposed to know, you know, voices the
opinion that the rigid and perpendicular couple
will return to cavort at the Cup carnival, hut it
isn’t likely the Talbottles will come back to
resume the breaking of bread at Stonington.
A Gibsonesque Melbourne maid, who was
recently dragged to the altar, met her happy fate
through the foolishness of the Other Girl. Ihe
Other Girl made too sure of her prize—said prize
being an agreeably youthful and rather heavily
gilt person. The foolish Other Girl was first
engaged to the youth, and didn’t treat him very
well. They were at a dance, one and
the youth began to take all the Other Girl s
waltzes. When he had booked six, the maid
asked him snappishly “ Isn’t that enough ? and
the man, being damaged in his pride, violently
marked out the whole six, then went away and
danced eight numbers with the girl of the unim-
peachable profile. Now he is married to the
profile, while the foolish one retains her indepen-
dence and her spinsterhood.
Mrs. Eddie King and Miss Fay Nicolson are
whirling as a pair of brilliant motes in the eyes of
the Anglo-Australian. Every recent mail from
Bull’s capital has brought tidings of the two
blithesome sisters dashing round with heavily-
labelled Londoners. Brother Bert, who swaggered
lots here early last year, is adjacent to Mrs. King
and Miss Fay in the Big Smoke, and is keeping
up the Nicolson end of the stick. His luck
started by secretarying to Whitaker V right, and
gracefully withdrawing from the post before
complications led on to court proceedings and
suicide.
Another local Miss contracts matrimony with
a cleric. This time it’s Miss Mary Tucket-
daughter of the best amateur horticulturist in this
State. It seems right that a Mary should wed
the curate. It’s when cuddlesome Babs and
giddy Kit and sporty Flo start making eyes
at the Cloth that one grows apprehensive. Ihe
Mary in question is linking herself with the Kev.
S. Dallas Smith. Anyone caught dropping the
Dallas and leaving the name Smith exposed in all
its nudity will be prosecuted.
The Dunbar-Hoopers take up their hyphen and
a niece, and get aboard the crowded Marmora
next week, for a six months’ gad. The doctor s
large, stylish business at saving the sick and the ap-
parently dead falls for the interval into the hands
of two notable Collins-street practitioners.
Miss Vera Bretnall, who is quite as attractive
as her label implies, helps to increase the marriage
rate this week. She may even have backed out
from the church with the gold hoop on her most
significant finger and her male property on her
arm by the time this is printed. The fortunate lie
is a Mr. Dunn —plain Dunn, with no alphabetical
torchon clinging fore or aft his name.
Once more Mrs. Jim McEvoy goes rolling-
even Judkins has to roll at sea— aboard an ocean
liner for a merry while. The Albury wool king
has been on the sick-list, and the present jaunt is
supposed to be the result of a “edical command.
Mrs. Jim goes aboard with a glad heart and
giddy pile of boxes.
After all, the mixed dip is not always a success
so far as the fascination of a man for a maul goes.
If things are a little uncertain, the mixed dip
may fix them definitely—and in a way not advan-
tageous to the romantic Miss. At Carrum, arid
various beach tracks where the assorted plunge is
sanctioned, friendly pairs have not progressed
any by the joining of wet hands. The reason
isn’t a matter of searching for a needle m the
Northern Territory. The salted girl is not
invariably a romantic object. She s sometimes a.
dripping, tangled, blue-nosed, purple-eared
fright, and, unless she has the curves of Psyche or
Annette Kellermann, her stockmgette scrap of
covering only gives her bad points away. Cnly
in Meredith’s “Lord Ormond and his Aminta
does the mixed dip prove a poetic and big y
romantic proceeding ; but in that chapter dubbed
“The Marine Duet” the Meredithian word-
painting and charm of thought-blending is at its
very best: so his Brownie and Matie plunge
through the brine with any amount of grace and
splendor —and, though wet, their magnetism
holds good. But hereabouts the Dripping Salt
Girl and the Damp Mostly ; XJndressed Male are
sports —or spoil-sentimentalists.
The fat young hope of the Chief Justice and
his Justicess has developed, per travel and ship-
board experience, into a somewhat shapely miss,
with large, bright, grown-up eyes, a set of sweet
ddbut dimples, and a pearly bite (which includes
a gemmed smile). She is no longer like a bulging
damson plum, but firm and rounded, and her
waist is exactly in the right place. Formerly it
climbed up under her arms. Also, there is the
right amount of it. Her old school-mates view
her with envy. Yet doesn’t some commandment
forbid you to covet your neighbor’s waist ?
The Froggie element has at last found out the
reason of John Madden’s public slur on Paris as
a city and Francois as a soldier. He had
the ’flu in a virulent form while in h ranee,
and he took a baldhead’s perverted view of
its giddy city between sneezes. Dame Mad-
den contracted the ’flu in her non-profes-
fessional capacity as nurse, and more than ever
did the plump Chief curse the City of Misfortune.
Melbourne’s French community is satisfied with
the explanation. To miss the radiant glamor of
their gorgeous capital for ’flu reasons was, they
reckon, bitterness enough.
As it's a close season for giddy or even glad
effects in the Anglican Church, all decorations for
the knot-tying of Miss Elaine Molesworth and her
Colonel were off, last Saturday. But the impress-
ive brass fittings of the officahs present lent a
lively tone to the harnessing function. Colonel
Walker had everything on. Captain Guy
Madden —adjacent to the couple on the
mat-was probably the bulkiest Tommy the
military bridegroom had ever seen in military
petticoats. The Madden kilts are more capacious
than any other garment covering any he-person
in the Commonwealth. Judge Molesworth s
chick is a tall, happy-eyed girl, looking as if she
should be labelled Joy, instead of poetic Elaine.
In her milk-white rig she floated as an arum lily
up the aisle.
The Saturday knot-tying brought the Maddens
into the local ken once more. The Ruby s com-
plexion is so flawless, and her chestnut tresses so
purely chestnut and beautiful, that her ridi-
culously tiny toque of roses was justified. Any
charmer with the natural bloom and beauty of
this Madden gem should leave as much head and
face exposed as possible. About all the Madden
girls there’s a still, quiet, almost rural atmosphere
of seven years’ peace and plenty.
Mrs. Cyril Landale is back in these haunts.
Her trousseau gets an airing at Menzies’.
R. S. Smythe tells a board-ship episode of his
far travels. A passenger in the second saloon of
the vessel had a quaint habit of promenading the
deck in a silk hat, with an umbrella under his
arm Either the second officer’s aesthetic sensi-
bilities, or the passenger’s remonstrances, caused
him and his silk hat to be confined to his cabin.
While he was spending his time there, a storm
arose, and with it the frenzy of some re-
ligious immigrants aboard. They brought their
available traps on deck and sang a
farewell hymn. The eccentric personage
escaped in the confusion, and came on deck
where he opened his umbrella and yelled
‘ ‘ Steward, call a cab ! ” Then, finding no likeli-
hood of that vehicle being immediately available,
he broke his brolly over a religious matron s
capacious back. She thought m her confusion
that it was the chastening rod of Providence that
had struck her, so she bowed her head and said
“Amen.”
Antecedent to the recent Opera House matinee
in aid of Frank Clark’s children, is a pitiful
tragedy. F. M. C. departed to America without
farewell preliminaries, leaving a surprised and
sorrowful family behind him. His wife died
a few weeks back, leaving two little children
unprovided for. Thanks to ’Arry Rickards
initiative, and other theatrical folks’assistance
the unfortunate youngsters will score some £l5O
from the benefit performance.
The Most Important People broke into much
mauve at the first Caulfield gee-gee rally, ler-
race loiterers, who usually gladden their persons
by cold crimson, or strident blue, or verdant
green, lapsed, simultaneous-like, into dreamy,
passion-spent, anecdotal mauve. Mrs. Edward
Miller, of course, is addicted to the hue, but Mrs.
Dick Casey and Mrs. Clement Vallange were
among the surprises who lapsed as aforesaid.
A whole, entire cafe suspended knife and fork
operations the other evening, as the establishment
and all the crockery thereof creaked and rattled
under the double weight of Yes-No Reid and
Rep William Knox. The brace of competitive
Fa 1 staffs they both are “in the waist (praise
the mark !) “ two yards about’’—labored in with
lagging hoofs and slow. And the peas on rny
suspended fork danced to earth as they steam-
rolled past the table. But eventually they found
large-sized benches and squatted and the earth-
quake eeased in the cafe, so * feTand
was able to balance more peas on the fork and
secure them. But the bulky mates kept the less
hungry on the grin, for the preparations of a fat
man for a meal are better than any pantomime.
A small boy attended his parents knot-tying 1
on Shrove Tuesday. It was his Pancake treat.
For years, the couple “ did the denunciation lack
of outward order,” so they amended their ways a
the outset of Lent, and took Tommy, that lie
might know that his parents were fit and proper
persons to bring him up. t .
A local Jehu played a nasty trick on his im-
portant employer the other day. The bon o.
Nimshi, driving into Colhns-street, turned his-
head to get a fresh order from the youthful Dives,
when he found him fast asleep among a mass ot
soft silk cushions. So he drove up and down
giving the whole Block a view of the sleeping
male beauty. But young Dives didn t sleep
beautifully. The countenance that drifts into
slumber with the mouth simulating the Great
Australian Bite isn’t a lovely subject. Jehu knew
it. Dives woke up and swore. But the wnoJe
Block by that time had giggled over the incident.
There is great courage about the Christian
Scientist’s self-control and poise. No doubt of it.
And by her voice shall ye know her. 1 have
listened to shoals of them at different times as
single spies and in battalions, and it s always the
same brand of voice. The will-effort shows first
and last, not in the eyes, the mouth, the facial,
expression, but in the organ of talk. It is bright,
cheerful, re-assuring—or it’s a soothing voice.
Miss Vida Goldstein’s is of the former type. It
is high, clear, gaily confident. “Listen! it
seems to say. “ Don’t you observe the happiness
•of my tone? Isn’t it sane? Isn t it bright.
Isn’t it healthful ? Isn’t it godly ? ” Miss 1 aw-
•cett—another ardent preacher of thebe-your-own-
priest-and-doctor faith —has the other kind ot
voice. It comforts, it soothes, it prescribes a cure
for your head or heart-ache in every tone. Mrs.
Theodore Fink’s also. Look out for the C.b.
voice ! And, if you’re weak, beware of it! Ihe
Christian Scientist has not always an alluring
•countenance, not often a bewitching face, but her
voice is a cultivated charm. It leads first,
to Optimism, which is good—and then to Belief,
which is foolish.
In the hum of a bargain gale a shopkeeper has
Been telling me what an asset Manner is. ‘ ‘ Some
of my girls can’t tell the truth. But I keep em.
Manner. Purely for that. Sometimes they’re not
•even honest. I employ other hands to watch em.
Worth while ? Certainly. I keep ’em. Manner
again. They row and make trouble now and then,
but when the fighters have good address I keep
’em. Can’t have too much Manner about a shop.
It attracts trade. Manner sells half the stock. If
I’ve a bad line, I put a girl of Manner on the job.
It sells. Fact. Honesty and Truth are good, but
in the drapery business Manner is more. Manner
is divine.” Wasn’t one of the prophets fed with
Manner from Heaven ?
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide: —
The hospitable Barr Smiths tried to entertain the S.A.
Automobile Club, the other Saturday, but their kind
efforts appear to have been wasted on an ungrateful
populace. The invitation was sent to the Club generally,
and not to individual members, and the exalted and sen-
sitive persons, who thought they should have been par-
ticularly specified, stayed away in a large and angry body,
leaving the entertainment of a dozen undistinguished
folk on the hostess’ hands. This should make the club
almost uncomfortably popular with entertainers 1
Latest South Australians to go away to gaze upon the
face of Bull include the Luther Scammells, who left by
the Britannia last week. They belong to the Fauldmg-
Scammell folk, are possessed of much of that substance
over-attachment to which keeps the tree of evil from
falling out of the globe, and reside in the vicinity of
Glenelg. Mrs. Scammell is a regal and frocky lady.
Mr. Henry Dutton’s new and extensive private, particu-
lar yacht has just arrived from the Speck Island, to put
all other craft of the kind in the shade. It is guaranteed
to weather the toughest blast, and is at the same time
quite imperial in its decorative splendor. It will carry
three kings or viceroys, also the owner and a crew of two
with comfort, and can feed ten persons without anyone
having to climb up the funnel or cling to the mast during
the meal. An acquaintance, who deals in anecdotes of
the Great and Celebrated, tells me that the owner of
Anlaby and the new yacht is a gentleman of great house-
wifely attainments, and has even been known to
order the breakfast chop personally, with his own
mouth. At Anlaby, it seems, a fearful order prevails.
The park leading to the homestead has 99 roads (more or
less), each carefully labelled so that no trades person or
other vandal may dare approach the sacred precincts of
the house proper. Inside dread punctuality reigns, and
no meal is permitted to be kept waiting for the most
exalted guest. One has a vision here of “ the squire ”
hauling a sleepy and backward viceroy out to breakfast
by the ear.
’ The Mary Ann question is bad in South Oss just now.
A horde of wild-haired matrons besiege the registry
offices, promising anything up to a diamond tiara if only
some sort of a Mary Ann can be secured for them.
Mary Ann seems to be an elusive bird, and the law
doesn’t allow her to be chained up when captured.
Heard of one dame who seized on her at a registry office
and went home happy. So did Mary Ann, apparently,
for she did not reappear, and no trace of her could be
found. The dame went despairingly to another office,
and heard there was a perfect jewel just waiting. The
jewel was called forth, but took to her two heels on sight
of the dame. It was the same jewel. Her strange con-
duct was never accounted for. I think she was a harm-
less and humorous lunatic.
Mr. Justice Herbert, who has been driving the
Northern Territory elephant for a year or so, came down
to Adelaide the other day for a brief jaunt, to help Mr.
Price sell the refractory beast to the Commonwealth.
In fact, I’m not sure he didn’t bring the elephant along
in his portmanteau, so that the purchasers could see him
put through his paces, but perhaps you’d better not men-
tion that.
The Government, which has been deputationed wilh
great violence for months by various influential folk
to buy Mrs. Rowan’s fine water-color collection of
Australian wild flowers, got a moment to spare the
other day, and said it would think about it. There has
been a suggestion that the paintings be reproduced in
book-form for educational purposes, which looks as
though the clever dauber will not have to betake herself
and her wares to Sam’s land for recognition after all.
Yours Affectionately,
TRYPHENA.
Beware of the imported sausage. A wit-
ness at the Thames (London) police court stated,
the other day. that big horses going to Amster-
dam to be made into sausages realise as much ps
£l7 each.
The Bulletin, with a blush, noticed this
the other day in an Aberdeen (Scotland) paper
“But if the G.P.O. people really knew the in-
trinsic excellence of The Bulletin, I do not
marvel that they spat on their fists and deter-
mined to find me at all costs. It is a treat in
every way. We have nothing to compare with
it over here. Tell the editor I say so.”


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
m GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, (5s?C, PBG St, Martin, Paris, France
ptS
GS-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr«d. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
ARTIFICIAL
LIMBS.—
We make them on the premises.
We make more than any other firm in Australia.
We also import them from the famous American
firm, A. A. Marks.
Every kind of Artificial Limb supplied at reason-
able prices.
Send for Free Book on Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROTHERS,
Surgical Instrument
‘ Makers,
281 George St., Sydney (opp. Hunter St.).
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Up North it looks politically to be a ques-
tion of Kidston or Chaos.
All, save one, of the solicitors practising at
Broken Hill (N. S. W.) have petitioned the Minister
for an inquiry into the administration of justice
at the Barrier. They don’t make any definite
charges, but they intimate the sort of charges
i hey are prepared to make. It is seven years
since anything of the sort happened in N.S.W. :
the trouble then occurred up Grafton way.
R. Vicars, of the firm of J. Vicars and Co.,
which makes the excellent Australian tweeds at
Marrieltville (N.S.W.), writes :
Last week Bulletin had a par on Melbourne A.N.A.
Exhibition, current. It is hardly correct in detail, for
tweeds, &c., are shown by Foy and Gibson, Albion,
Oas.lemaine, and ourselves. So N.S.W. is represented,
a id by a good (although fairly small) exhibit, straight in
front of the front door, with plenty of signboard to tell
the ignorant where we hangout. The exhibit was evi-
djntly considered fair, for Ball and Welch purchased it.
WHAT VARIOUS HINDRANCES WE
MEET. —(INSECTS CHIEFLY.)
The State Parliaments in their relation to the
Commonwealth.
The Australian Government has dealt
firmly with the question of Papua. Governor
Barton retires, taking 12 months’ leave of absence
as a preliminary. Judge Murray will act
temporarily as Governor, and when the Australian
Parliament meets again a definite settlement of
the affairs of the Possession will be made a
settlement which, it is hoped, will provide for the
development of tropical industries in the island.
“No portion of Australia’s North is
richer; none is in a more undefended condition
than this (Northern) Territory. As a foraging
ground for meat supplies for an army operating
against the rest of Australia it offers every
facility ; as a naval station for beaching and
effecting temporary repairs the harbor of Port
Darwin presents advantages perhaps nowhere
surpassed.”— Government Resident Herbert's re-
port, which teas one of the spurs that drove
Premiers Deakin and Price into their agreement.
Up to date, over 400 candidates are an-
nounced for the 72 seats in Queensland Assembly.
Eleven patriots are bleeding to represent one
constituency (Cambooya), but the present holder,
who is of the clan Macintosh, and is wont to do
his ploughing in his native kilts, swears that he
(Donald) can hold “her” against all ta Lowland
scum that may come against “ her,” ye ken.
“K.” from Tasmania :
It ! is curious to listen to the stunning- quiet of the
fruitgrowers since they had that pleasant Friday morning
with Him of the Customs. The waste of the little apple
with the fungus on it will be simply awful. I think they
will shortl.y argue that the Commerce Act is impious, on
account of the well-known personal share taken by the
Admighty in the manufacture of little apples. Why doee
Mr. Reid neglect this phase of the sectarian question ?
Judging by the way members sit in the
House of Reps., Party Government is a very
dead thing in the Australian Parliament. Eight
men sit behind the seven Ministers, two sup-
porters (Kingston and Crouch) preferring to find
cushions in the Labor corner, and so crowding
the Emperor O’Malley, Bamford, and Page out
' f R- A wonderful fourteen sit beside and
behind George Reid. .Sixteen Oppositionists jam
themselves into two corner benches, and the
Labontes, after crowding the other corner, spill
over the House in various directions.
A scandalous thing is asserted by Mel-
bourne Paunch regarding Bent’s action in declar-
ing suddenly for a March election in Victoria.
Ihe journal asserts with pride that Bent gave
the surreptitious tip to his own supporters a fort-
night in advance, and they thereupon hustled
like the devil to get their own supporters on (lie
rolls. Labor men, who were making leisuiely
preparations for a big enrolment, found, after
Bent’s announcement, that it was too late. This
thing deserves greater publicity than Paunch can
give it. If it is true, then Bent is even more
remarkable than he looks.
In reply to a crop of deputations which
requested the Government to make several
urgently-needed tramway extensions at North
Sydney, Minister of Works Lee ejaculated :
Everything depends on one matter—the provision
which the Sydney Ferries may be prepared to make to
carry the people over the harbor. That must be first
ascertained. A fatal mistake might be made if we were
to build additional tramways to bring further crowds of
people to an already congested crossing, without seeing
first that there would be adequate facilities for conveying
them over the water.
Well, why not build (out of revenue) that North
Shore bridge thatmve used to hear about ?
Last week it was cabled that a ghoul of a
Russian police agent had poisoned a revolutionary
leader by placing a “stinking bomb” in his cabin
on a Swedish steamer. The fumes also killed
three other passengers, who were not even
Russians, let alone revolutionaries. Melbourne
Argus reported the murder, and put up
as its headline “ Rough Justice.” Any old
method ot murdering half-a-dozen men is
justice, according to the Tory view, so long as
one of the victims is a revolutionary ora Socialist
or anything that isn’t Eat. The first time an
Argus editor is murdered, The Bulletin will
look for that heading, “Rough Justice.”
The fact that Prime Minister Deakin makes
a mistake every time he tries to work “in con-
junction with the States ” has again been demon-
strated. He proposed that the Australian
Government should pay half the cost of bringing
back stranded Australians from South Africa if
the States to which they belonged would pay the
other half. In reply, Kidston, of Queensland,
said _ sourly that his State was quite capable of
looking after its own lost citizens ; and Carruthers,
who is always yelping and uncivil, refused to
have anything to do with the movement, and
behaved like one of the lower animals, as usual.
The matter of foreign patents has been a
crying grievance with British manufacturers for
more than 50 years. In one class of products
alone the British manufacturer has been
shamelessly robbed in the sacred name
of I reetrade. The first discoveries of
aniline dyes and other coal-tar products
were made in England by Eerkin and
other chemists. The processes and
products were patented, but could not
be kept secret. They were imitated
and improved on in France and Ger-
many, and the imitations were im-
ported into Britain duty free. The
British chemist, on the other hand,
found himself shut out of all the
foreign markets by duties, so steep
that he couldn’t climb them, and so
tall that he couldn’t see to the top of
them ; and every foreign improvement
was rigorously protected in addition
by British patents. Now a Freetrade
British Government talks of ending
this state of things by having re-
course to Protection.
For pure, unadulterated front it would be
hard to beat the Melbourne Protestant Electors’
Committee. Its secretary (W. J. Lormer), who
has unsuccessfully contested more elections’ than
anybody else in Victoria, complained that the
Ministry was selecting candidates without con-
sulting the precious P.E.C., and put forward the
impudent demand that Bent, before deciding
upon any candidate, should first submit his name
to this handful of fanatics. Bent has not replied—
probably he does not think it worth while—but the
thoughts of the ponderous Premier may be easily
imagined. Now, suppose a R.C. organisation
demanded to be consulted in the selection of can-
didates ye gods! And the Protestant Elec-
tors Committee professes to deprecate the mixing
of sectarianism with politics !
A writer in the S.M. Herald (8/2/07)
voices the opinions of the N.S.W. State school
teachers on the Carruthers Administration :
The Government insulted the teachers by granting a
little oyer £4OOO to be distributed as inc/eases amone
something over 5500 teachers. When the Teachers’
Association appointed a deputation to wait upon Mr
Carruthers he got on the high horse and refused to see
them. Mr. O Conor, the present Minister, is looked upon
by nearly every teacher in the service as the most un-
sympathetic and weakest that they have ever had Richtlv
or wrongly, the whole body of teachers are up in arms
against the present Government. Teachers are every-
where working for the overthrow of the present Govern-
ment at next elections.
And tlm best way to set about the business is for
the Teachers’ Association to affiliate with the
other trades unions, and become a common
beastly Labah organisation.
TWO GREAT EVENTS.
“ And didn't you really vote , Mrs. Newed? ”
“ No, dear. You see polling day fell on such an awkward date. I hadn't a minute to spare.
I was all the morning preparing for baby's afternoon at home."
Mayoral elections in Brisbane have got
into the habit of being comedies, but the last
one reached “the limit.” There are 14 aider-
men, and no less than 11 of them were nomi-
nated in turn for the job of wearing the mayoral
frills, and rejected—one of them twice and an-
other three times. The last three nominated,
seeing the utter asininity of the whole thing,
refused to allow their names to go to a ballot.
Then the council, realising that it was getting no
forrarder, adjourned to cool its head and discover
where it really was. Finally, it went back and
elected an alderman it had already twice declared
it didn’t want.
The Australian Commerce Act is shedding
a valuable light on the ways of Nippon. Matches
made in Japan and imported under the name of
Trades Union Matches ” have been stopped at
the Customs, and will not henceforth be admitted
unless accompanied by sufficient proof that they
are manufactured under trades’ union conditions,
as their name implies. Another “trade custom ”
is the indenting of Japanese silk handkerchiefs
bearing Roman characters, the implication being
that the “ wipes” are of European origin. This
deception will be stopped under the Commerce
Act, and all such handkerchiefs must be branded
“ Made in Japan ” for the future.
Before Justice Hood gave his decision
knocking a whole tunnel through the new
Victorian Licensing Act, and leaving the citizen
as free of the pubs on Sunday as he was under the
old law, the Police Magistrates had practically
thrown wide Bung’s doors to the Sabbath stranger.
In half-a-dozen cases Vic. magistrates had de-
clared that the young man who said he was court-
ing the barmaid had good and reasonable excuse
for being on the premises on Sunday, and every
accused who offered this plea was discharged,
with the fatherly benediction of the court.
Naturally this infuriated Judfull and Woodkins,
who held that courting the barmaid was an
aggravation of the offence. It might be so, but at
least the excuse was more romantic than that of
the ten men who were found in a Sydney suburban
pub on Sunday some years ago, and who said they
had come, the whole lot of them, to borrow some
sweet oil for a sick horse— only one horse.
Another bit of insectarianism from Mel*
bourne (Akgus report)
Speaking last night at a meeting of the Yarraville
branch of the Protestant Defense Association, Mr.
Batley, a member of the grand council, said that....
ninety-two junior clerks had during the last few months
been admitted to the public service, and 82 of them were
Roman Catholics.
If.this is true (which doesn’t seem probable)
it is up to Mr. Batley to draw Premier Bent’s
attention to the case. In Victoria the way into
the public service is by a stiff competitive exam,
and those who pass with the highest marks get the
first appointments. So either the examinations
are a shameful fake (a matter to which Premier
Bent’s attention should be drawn), or R.C.
youths are far better educated than Protestant
ones (which seems very unlikely), or Mr. Batley is
lying (about which this paper expresses no opinion
at all).
The ornamental, picturesque, and utterly
useless Suspension Bridge, which leads to nowhere
in particular across the head waters of Middle
Harbor (Sydney), came once more into notice last
week, when the syndicate which has an interest
in the bridge erected a marquee thereon, and in-
vited Minister of Works Lee to a cold collation.
When the victuals were finished, the syndicate
rose up and asked Mr. Lee to kindly build a tram
line from Blue’s Point (North Shore) across the
bridge, and away into the Desolation Beyond. In
return for this the syndicate will hand over its
brown elephant of a bridge to the State, and will,
in addition, pay £5OO a year for 10 years towards
maintenance. The syndicate did not say what profit
it expected from being able to subdivide and sell
its share of the Desolation Beyond. Minister
Lee, with his mouth full of cold collation, didn’t
sefem too enthusiastic.
Airey, Queensland brainy Home Secretary,
and Kidston’s faithful lieutenant, has had t.ie
bad luck to represent a district which likes its
political snake-juice neat, and so Airey doesn’t
seem to have much hope that way. North Bris-
bane, however, wants him. But wherever he
goes, Bung will bump against him; and, on the
whole, it’s a good sign when Bung and a Labor
man fall out.
Iceberg Irvine never had a chillier after-
noon than his first in the House of Representa-
tives. There were cheers and “Hear, hears”
(bantering or friendly) as most of the members
came forward to be sworn, but at the name of
William Hill Irvine there was silence like that
which prevails halfway between the stars.
Deakin, Reid, and Watson congratulated Speaker
Holder. Page gazed at the “Corner,” which,
in order to escape the Lump of Ice, had just
decided not to elect any leader at all. “Come
on, Knox,” quoth Jim ; “give us a word from
your push.” Knox spoke—red, happy, and per-
spiring. Then the Labor men yelled for
“Quick, Quick, John Quick,” staring at Irvine
while they did so. The Man with the Iron
Mask dropped it. His mouth tried to smile,
and succeeded in twisting. His face changed
to an indefinite hue. He wasn’t an Iceberg
after all—only a bubble, which felt the prick of
a needle in its gassy entrai s. In the Reps., he
will not be even “Mr. Irvine.” He will be
only “Mr. W. H. Irvine,” for good-natured
Hans Irvine sits almost next to him. And it
was for this that he refused to be a Supreme
Court Judge!
THE SITUATION SAVED.
At Bendigo (Vic.) several prosecutions for hotel
trading in prohibited hours hare been dismissed on
the plea that accused were courting girls on the
premises.
Having parted with most of the residential
sites along Port Phillip Bay, and finding that tlx 1
owners are chiefly speculative buyers, who hold
for five or ten times more than they gave, Bent’s
Minister Mackey now promises to insist in future
sales on a condition that a building shall be
erected within reasonable time. Well, that’s
better than nothing, but it is a foolish, round-
about process, after all. It may stop some specu-
lative buying; but when there has been a
speculative purchase, the speculator will still
pocket the value given to the land by the public.
Only a land-tax will get back for the public some
of the value which it has itself created.
PATRIOTISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Union Jack presented to the school by Mr. Slime
was unfurled yesterday, the assembled pupils singing
“God Save the King ” — Vida any old rag.
We learnt it long ago—
“ ’Twas right that we should know
The source of words,” they said, “ and understand.”
And so they taught
(Good knowledge bought)
That Patria meant “One’s own native land " ;
And Patriotism, too,
Meant love of me and you,
Of Gentile and of Jew,
And all the Australian crew
For Austral hill and vale,
And Austral fell and dale,
And creek and rock and dreary desert sand.
But when the war came round
A meaning new was found.
And Patriotism meant the love of Bull—
Of Bull and Co.,
And Brummy Joe,
Of Beit and Chow and others in the pull;
And so we gladty flew
To join the pirate crew
And burn a farm or two.
Brave “ Sons of Empire ” true,
On veldt and kopje wet
(Some haven’t come back yet),
And learnt the art of murder to the full.
The kids that go to school
Must learn the golden rule
That Patria means England, Fat and grime,
Imported boots
And English suits
ITo wear the home-made item is a crime ;
Say “Haw” and “Demmit,” pleas;,
Revile “ the colonies,”
. Contract the Freetrade wheeze
(The uppah class disease),
And when you’ve made your bit
Go “ home ” and live on it
(We’re richer by your absence every time).
N.S.W.
VELDT.


To REDUCE
Your BOOT BILL
You MUST bear in mind that low-priced
Boots and Shoes ARE NOT necessarily
CHEAP Boots and Shoes -
If you knew the Durability of “ CALLAGHAN ”
BOOTS and SHOES you would certainly not
wear any other brand but the ** Callaghan.”
When buying your next pair pay a LITTLE
more money and get MUCH more value
for it than you EVER got before - - -
Have the Boots or Shoes
you have been wearing stood
soleing three or four times
“ Callaghan ” Boots and Shoes often stand it,
and sometimes more. THIS IS WHERE
THEIR CHEAPNESS COMES IN
It's quite clear that you can reduce your
“Boot Bill ” by seeing that YOUR
NEXT new pair have stamped on
them the words “ The Callaghan. ”
THEREFORE
Write to-day for a copy of The New
CALLAGHAN BOOT STYLE BOOK. Sent
free by post to you. By Parcels Post we fit you
exactly, or we return your money -
CALLAGHAN & SON f 395 George St, Sydney.
P 4
5^
H,
ER
2s>
Sf^oiK
MA/i
PA WATER)
SZr fiat 3P*mo
<m
V i.r».» « l'~>
/LAND 3
t •>
'A SFAC
The MODERN
HOSTESS. &
“I give you 4 KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has . three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
■Malthoid Dampgourse
‘ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not." — Marcus Aurelius.
PROFESSOR EDMUND O’NEILL, of the University of California,
subjected MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE to a pressure up to 6f tons per
square foot, WITHOUT AFFECTING IT IN ANY WAY, hence he HAS A
GOOD WORD TO SAY, as this splendid triumphant test was equivalent to
the weight of the walls of a brick building 144 feet high, and floor loads of
50 per cent, extra.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, FREE.
'CUnt
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS :
W S FRIEND & 00. HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
iEliKnl
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queen’s G&teTer race
I London. S.W. V
UNDER
ROYAL
PATRONAGE
ONE NV/ OF
THE MOST
\ FASHIONABLE y
l\ HOTELS IN /
l\ LONDON I
/ NOTED FOR\
ITS COM FORT &
CONVENIENCE
m
DO YOU WANT A MOUSTACHE?
If you want a full-grown, manly moustache there’s
onlv one thing that will give it to you, and that is
CAPILLARINE
10/6 Post Free anywhere.
CAPILLARINE will work wonders Money
back if you are not absolutely satisfied.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St M Sydney.
AT LAST !!
pyA Standard Typewriter at a
Reasonable Price.
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard.
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
;Sf«;
SSS
s •
'
SE*
«'■
& -.
'
BRITON
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High-Grade Machine.
Our “Direot Drive” Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
(KEY)
Is an exclusive patent and saves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any the postman carries.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week without an instructor.
Write To-day
for particulars of our Free Trial
offer. All our literature is Free.
Southern Sales Coy.,
O DALLEY STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GREY ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Oup, the Gar-
landOup, “Mota” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney.
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLON lAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading Centres of Australia aind New Zealand.
Lance Skuthorp, the greatest horseman the
world has ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 150 animals, all
buckjumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Snips. Both these horses can be backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*
WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE
Acknowledge that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are "Women’s Best Friend.
Women of the highest type, women of superior
education and refinement, whose sane discern-
ment and good judgment give weight and force
to their opinions, highly
eulogise the wonderful
corrective and curative
properties of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. Years
ago, pills were the medicine
of the poor only. To-day
the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills to over-
come the common ailments
and restore health and
happiness to sick and ailing
women, has convinced not
only the working section of
the population, but the
wives and daughters of the
more wealthy, professional,
and independent classes,
that Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a great
female medicine, and are
absolutely indispensable to
every lady’s boudoir.
Women who value health should never be without
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. Nurses and
doctors recommend them and thousands of women
who now enjoy health and strength owe their
rescue to this wonderful remedy. Throughout
the many stages of woman’s life, from peevish
girlhood through womanhood, motherhood, to the
declining years of old age, there is no better,
milder, or more effective medical companion to
women folk than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
They promote health and regularity, heal inflam-
mations and ulceration, and cure all womanly
weaknesses, cleansing and restoring the bowels,
liver and kidneys to perfect working order. A
few doses occasionally when well, will assure a
pure and healthy system.*
QR
DIRECTIONS
ADULTS Tv* •toßmwKus
CHILORCX AMau> to *
Wholc PiIX Dissowto
l« Swemwco Water
Jake beAnervfirin£
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
NS WANTED.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, <&c.
Consign to :
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Affents-Messra. E. H. FOTHERQILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Last Saturday’s work at Caulfield gave the-
sorrowful army of backers a lot of new information for-
t heir money. In the first place a public fancy for the-
Australian Oup Was established, when Misty Morn unex-
pectedly smothered his opponents in- the Woodclilfe Han-
dicap. The sod of Coil was meeting Mira, Kaffirpan, Becky,,
and others on -favorable terms, as compared with the
Australian Cup' allotments, but the distance (9 fur.) was-
eonsidered too short for him, and he carried no money. In
the last half-furlong Misty Morn ran past three or four
of them, and won brilliantly.
The Futurity Stakes—the unique w.f.a. race in
which every starter seems to get heavy penalties or
allowances, and which is worth £lOOO to the winner—had
n talked of as a good thing for Earnshaw’s four-year-
old Newbury. Collarit, Istria, and Step Out were other
prominent candidates for the Newmarket Handicap that
came forth to battle for the Futurity. And there
was old Corroboree, a horse that has carried II
stone and more to victory at petty meetings. It
was the veteran’s day out, and the distance (7 fur-
longs) seemed just right for him. Newbury raced
as though Earnshaw must have made a mistake in his
trial, hut the other fancied ones shaped respectably.
Nevertheless they proved themselves unworthy to be
thought of as first-class fliers. When they were alii
making an effort, Corroboree’s effort made them look a
lot of commoners, and whether he was much the fleetest,
ot merely the fittest animal on the job, is a question
hardly worth considering when the Newmarket Handicap
is to be run only one week later.
* * • *
Given a continuance of Melbourne’s belated
summer weather, the V.R.O. “ Autumn ” meeting should
draw record attendances, notwithstanding all the talk
about interest in racing being paralysed by recent legis-
lation. The “ gate ”at Caulfield last Saturday was better
than on the same day last year. And now the open
appearance of the Newmarket Handicap, and the proba-
bility of another struggle between Poseidon and Anto-
nious in the Leger, will attract more than ordinary atten-
tion to the first chapter of the big meeting at Fleming-
ton. There are many possibles left in the six-furlongs
sprint. Take Corroboree, Step Out, Collarit, North
Head, Pompous, Istria, Decollette, Ellis, Riversdale and
Newbury as the strong half of the crowd. This scribe
picks North Head, Pompous, Decollette and Ellis as the '
four best at the weights, giving the preference to
Decollette,
on the assumption that the mare has greatly improved.
She is one of the most likely to get away in front, and
can be depended on for a game fight.
A.S regards the Australian Oup, it is generally
admitted that Ellis (7.5) is a good thing “on paper”—if
the showy colt can go the long journey. This scribe
reckons him a very doubtful proposition for a 2J miles
race, whereas Antonious is a proved stayer, and even with
h. 7 on his back the N.S.W. colt must be dangerous. In-
one or other of the w.f.a. races next Saturday, the
strength of Antonious will come to light. If he can
stretch the neck of Poseidon the performance will go for
more than the skite of the Wren people, who declare that
Poseidon to-day is not so good as Ellis. Meanwhile, the
light-weights, Realm and Mira, look almost capable of
managing the race between them, and on recent form
one or other of the pair—Realm for choice—may heat
Dyed Garments, Misty Morn, Blue Spec, and the three-
year olds.
* * • .
The foregoing tip is by one who doesn’t
rise early, who doesn't follow the game, who knows
nothing about form, who just knows a horse from a
bullock, and who doesn’t regard horseracing as a sport,
but as a matter that ought to be confined to the Wild Oat
page. Therefore, for the Newmarket, back Pompous
with North Head and Collarit close up.
* * * *
Previous to the race in which Poseidon made
his re-appearance the champion walked very stiffly around
•'he “ birdcage,” and the books might have reasonably
ventured to accept shorter odds than 4to 1. When he
came through his field as freshly as of yore it was evident
that the price should have been 40 to 1 on. Some of the
other six were not trying too hard, perhaps. At the
finish Realm made a desperate effort to get near the
favorite, and the ex-hurdler put in a run which gave him
a promising chance for the Australian Cup.
* * * *
Pretty Peg, the two-year-old from Seobie’s
ntable, had a go for the Futurity Stakes, claiming an
IBlb. allowance. She was the first foal of La Carabine
to appear in public, and of course she could gallop a bit.
Nothing much is to be expected of the well-bred filly,
judging from appearances. One of her fore legs belies
her name. It isn’t a pretty peg.
• * * *
The fact that the V.A.T.C. was holding its
autumn meeting at Caulfield was responsible for a tre-
mendous crowd at Canterbury Park (Sydney) races on
Saturday. The results of the Caulfield meeting were
posted on the Canterbury semaphore within a few
minutes of the actual finish on the Victorian course, and
there was more betting done on the Melbourne meeting
than on the Sydney one. This practice of holding betting
meetings in Sydney on Melbourne races is one of the
reforms of Wade’s Anti-Gambling Act.
* * $
The purchase of Solution at any enormous price
by Mr. Jackpat Wrenolds appears to have been a very
fortunate thing for the seller. The speedy mare was
bought for the purpose of winning the Melbourne Oup in
particular and a number of w.f.a. events afterwards, but
her failure in the Oup race was a temporary knock-out.
She has been a weakened Solution ever since, and, now
-hat she is scratched for Autumn engagements, it looks
is though there can be only a half-hope of getting the
:| iare ready for work again next Spring. Which is rough
on Wrenolds, hut very comforting for other owners who
have anything good enough to send for “ a win or aplace”
r.n those uncrowded events where even a third place is
worth £lOO. Evidently Solution was taxed beyond her
Raying capacity in the Cup. Restricted to 10-furlong
/aces she might have gone on picking up £5OO stakes
u ith wagers attached, as Gladsome did. The mare was
willing, and her easy action preserved her from distress
ip to 11 or 12 furlongs, but the constitution was weak,
fiupert Clarke can now shake hands effusively with him-
>elf, and with the vet. who found faults in Solution’s
vital organs when he examined her on Rupert’s behalf
after the Metropolitan victory.
Melbourne Herald claims to have discovered a
hole in Bent’s new Gaming Act as large as the one that
•Justice Hood has just perceived in the Licensing Act.
Tne paper s contention is that clause 21 of the Act does
n >t prohibit the publication of the betting odds as news
lot for advertisement or valuable consideration—and
to back up its opinion, which is, presumably, Theo.
Fink’s opinion, it straightway printed the betting prices
for the Newmarket and Australian Oup. Bent and
Mackey are understood to be pondering the matter.
• • *
The slimy, untrustworthy Victorian honorarium
is already getting in his fine work on the new Gaming
Act. A Melbourne Ikey was lately convicted of a glaring
breach of the “street-betting” regulations, and the
J.P. wanted to fine him the same old 40s. “What?”
said the prosecuting sergeant, “ You can’t do that. The
lowest penalty is £20.” They had to make it that. But
they allowed him four months to pay it in.
* • • •
Vol. 23 of J. J. Miller’s Australian Racing
Chronicle is all the more acceptable for being promptly
issued. It gives the results of all races for the half-year
ending January 31st.
• • • •
Woman in sport is often humorous. On Satur-
day afternoon quite a crowd assembled on Parramatta.
River to watch the challenge race between Miss Gertie
Lewis, of North Sydney, and Mrs. Woodbridge, of
Stockton (N.S.W.). The b ats used were 18ft. skiffs, and
as Miss Lewis’s boat weighed 1791 b., Mrs. Woodbridge’s
had 71b. of ballast to make the weights equal. They got
away to a splendid start,, and Mrs. Woodbridge went to
the front almost immediately. But, apparently, half
North Sydney was there to cheer on Miss Lewis, and the
fearsome roar of “ Go it, Gertie 1 ” that rose from boats,
steamers and banks, caused that young lady to make a
tremendous spurt and draw almost level. Mrs. Wood-
hridgeagain opened out, and once more went away, keep-
ing well in front till the presence of the steamer Lady
Manning in mid-stream, off Abbotsford, caused her to
stop. Miss Lewis rowed for her life, and, owing to the
presence of the fool-steamer, a foul occurred. This
flurried Mrs. Woodbridge, who thereafter rowed wildly,
and two more fouls happened, after which Miss Lewis
streaked away, and won by something like a dozen
lengths. Mrs. Woodbridge enteired a protest, but the
judges disallowed it, and awarded the Ladies’Sculling
Championship of Australia to Gertie. Just imagine a.
race in which one of the competitors was forced to stop,
owing to a steamer in the way, and in which three
fouls occurred, being allowed to settle the male cham-
pionship of even Cooper’s Creek 1
* * * *
The N.S.W. girl promises to be as great a
swimmer as her brother, and at Balmain Ladies’ Club
championship gala, Wednesday week (to which, worse
luck, only ladies were admitted), there was splendid
swimming, which culminated in Dorothy Hill, of East
Sydney Ladies’ Club, winning the 100yds. championship
of N.S.W. in the world’s record time, for a lady, of lmin.
19 l-ssec. This is the same girl who previously shared
the then world’s record (for ladies) with Miss Carr, of
Brisbane, and last week’s time was an improvement by
one-fifth of a second.
* * * *
It is the period of championships, and on Satur-
day, at Bondi, the 600yds. championship of the State was;
won by Reg. Healey in 6min. 35sec. under circumstances
that deprived the event of much of its interest, the
chairman of the Swimming Association having decided
that Queenslander Springfield, who won the Keiran
Memorial Challenge Shield, could not compete. Healey
left the rest behind easily, and, not being pushed by any-
one, failed to get near record time. No man who wins
easily by a dozen yards has any chance of putting up a
world’s record.
* * * *
The Surrey Park Swimmers’ Club initial ladies”
dhy carnival, held at Box Hill (Melb.)last Saturday after-
noon, attracted a crowd of 3000, including the fruit-
growing cocky. They squatted around the big ex-quarry
hole, some 40ft. above the water’s edge, like flies round;
a basin of treacle. The course, 86ft. deep, is a trifle
heavy, though the calm and shelter are all in the swim-
mers’favor. The item of interest was the Mile Cham-
pionship of Victoria, 16 kps going to the mile. Frank
Beaurepaire, the youngster from Albert Park, and Billy
Clegg, of Ballarat, soon singled out from the
small field'. Sprinter Mtts quitted early with a
pain in Ms Little Mary, followed by Harris and
co. For eleven laps the pair hung together, Clegg
winning at the turns, though the “Parkite” made
the loss up over the straight going. Over the next
couple Beaurepaire drew away, and despite Clegg’s
efforts, finished a winner by 20 2-6 sec., in the record time-
of 26min. 25sec., beating the previous best made by
Clegg at Warrnambool last season, 27min. 30 2-ssec.
This season “ Beau” has captured four champs, and
Clegg has put up five consistent seconds. The Box hole
is great for experts, but is a death trap for feeble
swimmers.
* * # ft
It seems that Frank Birtles, who, some time
ago, was reported as being forced back to Laverton
(Westralia) by bad conditions: and lack of water in the
Great Victoria Desert, was at that time really engaged
on a reconnoitring expedition only. He reported that
the mulga country was quite impassable, and on the
last part of his reconnaisanee he had to push his machine
through 60 miles of spinifex andt scrubby country. The
machine never gave him the slightest trouble, and he
did not even have to phmp up the Dunlop bushman’s
tyres, with which it was fitted. After such an experi-
ence, most men would have let well alone, and gone
quietly back to the bosom of uhe best girl; .but Birtles
is made of different stuff. On January 28th the reckless
cyclist plunged into the wildtermess once more. His
machine weighed about lcwt., being loaded with 6gal.
of water, carried in two tanks> and a ■ supply of con-
centrated foods. Birtles believed 1 that he could last Iff
days’ without picking up water, by which time he
would be about one-third of the journey to Alice
Springs, which lies about 700 mites north-east of Laver-
ton. Strangely enough, the same route has just been tra-
versed by a Westralian Government, party, by means
of camels. The leader reports that all the rivers and
soakages were dry, and that but ter small rain-storms
the whole party would assuredly have peri, shed. In the
face of that report, the chances of Birtles gettino-
through seemed distinctly gloomy, and his friends were
much relieved when he returned safely to Laverton after
experiences described as hideous.
* * * •
Ransford, the young Vic. left-hander whose
fine innings of 136 for “ The Rest ’’ against N.S.W. was a
feature of the Gregory match, is something extra as an
athlete. At school he scored over 1000 runs in one
season, was captain of the football team, and won the
Championship Cup. Taking up lacrosse :he got at once
amongst the first-flighters, and played for Vic. in the
memorable match on the Melbourne Oricket Ground
when the South Aus. team went under by; seven goals to
six. Next he tackled baseball, and was a member of the
M.O.C. which last year visited Sydney and ran rings
round the metropolitan team. But swimr oing beats him •
he simply can’t. Still, at 22, he’s got tim,e to learn.
At a recent little spread given to a Melbourne
footballer the feeders and drinkers drank the health of
King- Edward, “ coupled with the name of the Essendon
iFootball Club." Truly Ed. VII. is getting on.
* * * *
The results of the motor boat reliability test
held on Port Jackson, the Tasman Sea, and the Parra-
matta River, on Saturday, February 2, were published
last week. The first prize, the Standard Cup, presented
by the Jersey City Standard Co., and a gold medal pre-
sented by the M. 8., N.S.W., were awarded to Charlie
Relph’s Invincible, the all-Australian boat, which secured
>613 points out of a possible 640. The second award, a
,gold medal, was given to Knowles’ Simplex, and the
third, a silver medal, passed to Dentist Soderberg’s Dane*
The Simplex scored 601 points, and the Dane 597. Con
trary to general expectation, Mr. Davies’ Coo-ee, which
ran like a clock, only secured fourth place with 578
;points. The judges deducted points from every boat in
'the competition for faulty fuel supply arrangements.
Absence of safety catch trays under the tanks and
•carburetters was the rule, and many lacked means to
•deal with the air locks or water lodged in the fuel pipes.
For this 35 points w T ere allowed ; the highest scored was
:32, and the detailed list shows this to be the weak spot in
practically all our motor boats.
* • . • * *
In the finish of the Sydney Prince Alfred Yacht
Club’s third race for the season’s championship, the
time allowances were adjusted at the finish, and, like
the bow drawn at a venture, and the other thing that
smote between the joints in the harness, they upset cal-
culations and appearances considerably. Writer watched
from the deck of a motor-boat the first six boats—Fleet-
wing, Heather, Sunbeam, Culwulla, Scotia, Kookaburra
—come out from Manly in that order. Sunbeam
ran through the fleet and led the way to Shark Island,
with Fleetwing about a minute behind. They came
;round Fort Denison in a bunch, with Scotia to the rear.
At the rounding of the Pile Light Scotia had crept a
Jlittle closer, and while the front boats fought for wind-
ward positions, Bremner’s boat crept unostentatiously
•closer still, and crossed the finishing line in the fifth
;position. The adjustment of the time allowances,
however, put Scotia first by 3min. lOsee., with Norman
Murray’s Heather 39sec. ahead of Sayer’s Fleetwing.
Previous to Saturday’s contest, the position in the cham-
pionship contest was that Culwulla, Magic and Scotia
had _ scored four, three, and two points respectively.
Magic was high and dry on the slip and could not com-
pete. This is the IBth race Scotia has won, four being
championship contests.
Saturday’s open-boat racing on Sydney harbor
was considerably hashed up owing to working handicaps
being given instead of leading ones, for which the wind
was suitable. The result was that the limit boats had it
all their own way, and the back-markers got never a show.
The fastest of the limit boats were Pheasant and
Violet, with 11 minutes handicap, and the race
•quickly resolved itself into a duel between these two.
Pheasant hoisted an enormous spread of canvas, and,
although Violet led on the wind, Pheasant tore along off
it, only to be headed again on the working. But
Pheasant’s tremendous spread brought it along at great
pace, and Violet was overhauled and beaten by 18sec. at
the finish. The third and fourth places were also filled
®y long-markers, and Australian and Donelly put up a
rousing contest for donkey honors. Australian avoided
the donkey honors easily.
* * * *
The Towns-Durnan sculling match for the
•championship of the world takes place on the Nepean
•course next Saturday. This course is historic. It was
•over it that Edward Hanlan defeated Elias Laycock for
the championship of the world in 1884 ; and it was on the
'Same water that, three years later, Hanlan himself met
his final defeat at the hands of Bill Beach. Now, 19
years later, it is Hanlan’s nephew who is the first to row
a championship race over the same water. Some people
are under the impression that it is “unlucky ” forDurnan
to row over the water where his uncle met his Waterloo ;
but, on the other hand, the Nepean is the only Australian
course, unless the Australian Year Book lies, over which
a foreigner bas ever beaten an Australian in a champion-
ship contest, so in that respect the choice is a good one
from the omen point of view'. Transpires that Durnan
has an amazing speed for a mile, and it is whispered that
even Towns himself expects Durnan to lead over the first
half of the course, but relies on his superior endurance to
wear down the Canadian in the second half. That was
how he beat both Tressider and Stanbury.
* * * *
A couple of Victorian junior cricketers last
Saturday achieved a record equal to that of Nicholl and
Koach when playing for Middlesex v. Kent. J. Kyle and
A. Robertson, in the match South Melbourne Footballers
v. E. Brunswick, scored 220 for the last wicket of South’s
first innings—Robertson being 82, and Kyle 153 not out.
* * *
Mr. P. Basto writes from Melbourne
I notice that a writer, who endeavors to hide his iden-
tity under the nom deplume of “ Snell,” comments upon
what he is pleased to term bad refereeing. He alludes to
the recent match between Ted Nelson and Fred Andrews
iin which I officiated, and says that “Nobody was more
■disgusted at the unsportsmanlike termination than
Andrews.” As a matter of fact, Andrews requested his
seconds to “sky the towel” at the finish of the first
round, and, further, had I not given my decision when I
•did, the police would have saved me that duty. This can
be proved officially. •
Had Mr. “ Snell ” been in the ring and received the
punishment inflicted on Andrews, he would only have
been too glad to have had an earlier decision recorded.
Andrews W’as hit a bit, and received considerably more
than a penn’orth of damage.
Even the seconds of Andrews were in perfect accord
with my decision, and so, too, were the press representa-
tives to a man {vide reports), and every right-thinking
man present.
Your correspondent says that I displayed “ squeamish-
ness that would commend itself to an audience of Jud-
kinses.” Well, perhaps so, to his mind. Let me inform
him that in comparing the Griffin-Fraser contest, Griffin
was in particularly good “nick,” and had not only
superior strength, but possessed a knowledge of the
game, which Andrews was so deficient in.
My actions as referee have always been approved of by
the large majority of those present, and if I have erred
in bringing a contest to an abrupt termination, I have
done so on the side of humanity’s sake.
* * * *
When Squires adroitly side-stepped John John-
son, many consoled themselves with the thought that
his fight with Peter Felix for the “ Colored Championship
of the World ” would provide at least six or eight rounds
of rousing scrap. As there was no color prejudice. Felix
suddenly found himself the popular idol, for the Austra-
lian ung-sider is patriotic even with his black man when
the opponent is a foreign colored man. The difference
between the two men, both big fellows, was astonishing ;
Fehx was at least half a head taller, or looked it. But
his shoulder and arm development were not in the same
class as those of Johnson, whose arms and shoulders were
of the size and glossiness of a pure-bred Clydesdale’s hind
legs. Felix is, as everybody knows ashianir ß a
new hat, while Johnson is merely and
which suggests that somewhere in the Ini ? U,ld
a-rear was a white ancestor. The black i
fixedly at those gigantic brown a-™* ? Med
ders and assumed a worried emission S Thel'
caused him to commence the scraD with ?; ; They
obviously between his ll inu * ltb bls , tail mo »t
dentally bumped Johnson’s left with hi. C f ash h ? acci '
fell over it, describing a half som erS aul t ’ t 2 d
Johnson on the forehead with the tip of his Severed
the brown man smiling, brought a left uppercut as Felix
came in a trifle closer. It just snicked Felix on the
extreme point, and down he went Then he th
on his stomach, and when he was counted out he
staggered to his feet amid a storm of hoots, and looked
round the howling house with the pathetic expression of
a motherless foal. It was an awful fiasco, anda shocking
finish to Felix s bruising career.
* * * •
. promoters of fight, who are princioallv
the Olympic A. Club, give less consideration to their
patrons—especially the high-priced seat buyers—than
any other showmen in Victoria. The OAT with it.
shnw h w (t < j! ycloranla )>. as compared with
show—Wirth s Circus, for instance—is absurdly feeble in
™^l a - age Tw. InVaidably the chea P Vision takes
possession of better-price seats, notwithstanding the
efforts of sundry ‘coppers” and a husky-voiced
“•ft to stem the tide. It is a common thing
to clamber on the platform occupied bv
deadheads, and the ’alf-sov. investor. How
wouid Rickards, Anderson and Co. fare if the pit multi-
tude habitually rushed the stalls ? Yet the fight pro-
moters get better prices, by a long way, than the theatres,
H]^ re a ma , n pays the more security he wants
that he will get value for his money. At the Cyclo*.
the graduated shelves are so ’ard that the house stands
up between rounds to relieve the painfulness of sitting-
down. Prior to the principal stoushing item, the man-
*&e.r’ a penny-whistle voice, announces future fight,but
to the far-off shelfite that voice never reaches. Oftimes the
preliminary and principal stoush is a fiasco, nothing else
is provided as compensation, and the patron makes home-
ward unsupplied with a reasonable sixpen’orth—he
barely gets a ha’porth. The fight biz. calls loudly for
better handling. J
* * * *
That fight between Jack O’Brien and Tommy
Burns at Los Angeles was a shocking exhibition of bad
feeling. Burns is said to have abused O’Brien in horrible
language right through the mill, and when he heard
Jeffries declare that it was a draw Burns turned on the
champion and finished up a torrent of epithets with, “ You
don’t know anything about the game f” “ I don’t, hey l ”
snorted the champion. “ Tell you what I’ll do, you pup.
11l hand the championship over to you, and then fight
you for it, and show you how much I know about the
’ Burns left the ring, and later on approached
Jeffries through an agent. “ Tell Burns,” Jeffries is re-
ported to have said, “ that when he has decisively licked
O Brien he can have a fight with me.” Mr. Jeffries evi-
dently considers it an almighty favor to have one’s ribs
punched by him.
* * * *
Battling Nelson is announced to have started on
a tour through Europe, after which he will come to Aus-
tralia and put a head on anyone who feels inclined that
way.
• * * *
The recent attempt at a boom of footrunning
in Victoria has left most of the promoters on the rocks,
owing to the failure of the ped. to attract public interest,
especially in Melbourne. The Wren Carnival, spread
over four nights, resulted in a sound four figure loss.
The Sportsmen’s meeting of three nights was an awful
frost which didn’t pay full prize money. And at Ballarat,
with a big money event, the promoters just got enough
to pay for drinks. Wren intended running regular big
sprints at the Richmond racecourse that would easilv
blot out old-time events. He actually inquired into the
cost of track construction and other plant, but the
vanish of many quids over his carnival cooled him down
considerably. The tail-end of the alleged boom has
frayed out into a weekly sprint race on the old-time
track at Gurney’s Grounds out Flemington way. The
promoter has made a feeble attempt to “Wrenify” the
old spot with electric lighting and a starting and finish-
ing machine. The lighting and the view from the hill are
perhaps the only satisfactory parts of the concern.
These night-time races are mostly betting outlets for the
anti-Judkins push, but the peds. are making them so
deadly that hardened “sports” blush at the schemes,
and are gradually quitting. The old wisehead of Noah’s
time who said “Never back anything that can talk”
must have seen Gurney’s in his dreams.
(Continued on page SI.)


Made
Australian Fruits, Flowers
and Herbs.
Nothing
So (food
On Earth
For Skin,
Complexion,
Scalp,
Hair,
Skin Disease,
Chapping,
Redness.
.
:■' -' v ■'
w::- ■ ' . ■ :
: /
vS
m
mm
rra
Quite Unequalled for
Shaving.
fieri dJ v-/K i*\ Jo*Y> be Ok
iA all CkenrM/l/.XVap en/
&t 2^ 5=3 per Box Y of <D> "XiblelV.
£&** If rvot Locally. J'ckncJ
islole ort/temp./ cf <stede toValue orXj*°
"to wKerY it will bePbited per* l\.e/rurr\ n&il.
soieT?opr,eTory HEKUGELHATiN 6 COMPANY
■WHOLE JALE • DRUG Gl/T.5 •<!> -MAH l/FACTI/ RER/
JH&QUEIN • STMEL5 T MEL5 R -"- E H 99 CLARENCE. •y-SYDNEY
A,r\d zA ADELAIDE & SRISBANE. .
FREE SAMPLE sent on receipt of Twopenny Stamp.
OSTRICH PLUMES
From our Famous Farms in South Africa.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 9 inches).
-afg Black Tips as illustrated are very fashionable.
3 for 6/-
POST FREE ANYWHERE
SIX SHILLINGS.
We make this Special Offer to advertise our Ostrich Plumes. Write To-day. Send Postal
Notes or Money Order payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
BLACK or NATURAL FEATHER BOAS, 12/6. Length, IJ yards.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Corner of Strand Arcade,
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swans ton Sts., Melbourne.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
THE GOLDEN KING.
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting .
/ guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course .
Intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
# do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me.
Bankers
Victoria and Royal Banks.
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “ The
King Of Sport " newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: ** King of Sport/' Collins St*, Melbourne*
Subscribers
HAVE YOU “AN UP-TO-DATE” PIANO?
People who buy Motor-cars insist upon having: the latest model. The i9°2 or 1903 model
may have been a very good car for its time, but the purchaser of to-day wants the 1907 model.
In the piano business, a similar situation presents itself. To be strictly u P‘^°-^ e ,. *
piano nowadays must be capable of not merely ONE method of playing, but of BOTH the
accepted ways ; by hand and by the Pianola. The only piano which unites both of these
methods in a single instrument is the
PIANOLA PIANO — “The First Complete Piano/*
-A
) PIANOLA o
PIANO
The New Pianola Piano Is an Upright Piano of the Highest Crade, with a Metro-
style Pianola inside its case. It is in every particular a Perfect Piano, and, in
addition, contains within its case a complete Metrostyle Pianola, the only Plano-
playing device endorsed by the greatest living musicians.
It can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
It can be played bv means of a Pianola action within its case. , .
There is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the method from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in the front of the
CaS A cordial invrutlon to everyone who may be interested in hearing
Che Pianola-Piano, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog M.
HENRY M. BIRGE (Q, CO.,
Head Office & Warerooms-185-7 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Branches at 357 George-st., Sydney; 311 Queen-st.,
Brisbane ; 38 King William-st., Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
Stands
any
Tesr,
Preserves
Robber
m
PUNCHJRB
STOP
IRACULU
pocsTrol^^^Mha.pacg
LIDDLE, round the world cyclist, travelled 3000
miles in Australia without puncture trouble. His
tvres were charged with MIRACULUM, and are
still good and firm. MIRACULUM preserves rubber,
and does not lift sound patches. If your dealer is
prejudiced against MIRACULUM because it reduces
nis repair trade, write to us direct.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS :
266 LATROBE STREET, MELBOURNE.
VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
Posted, with injector tin, in N.S.W. and Vic., 6/3 ;
other States, 5/8.
STAMMERING
can be cured by
correspondence.
Tell all about your
case and send £2 2s for complete course to
W. Phipps, Evening Echo, Ballarat.
Over 25 years’ experience. References given if
required. It pays to talk well } but a stutterer
is always at a disadvantage.
Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the Direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF TITTELL BRUNE’S SEASON.
THURSDAY—“ SUNDAY.”
FRIDAY— SPECIAL PROGRAMME—The First Act of
“L’Aiglon,” Fourth Act of “Leah Kleschna,” the
Balcony Scene from “ Romeo and Juliet,” and Fourth
Act of “Sunday.”
SATURDAY NEXT—RETURN OF JULIUS KNIGHT.
First Production in Sydney of ROBIN HOOD.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
'HEA T R E
Lessee
LAST NIGHTS of
BLAND HOLT’S Popular Australian Melodrama,
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Artistically Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic
Organisation of the Australian Stat.es.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
yICTORiA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE.
POST ~m"a S 0 N,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE, and Company
of Refined Vaudeville Entertainers,
ON TOUR.
GREAT SUCCESS. GREAT SUCCESS.
Opening VICTORIA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE,
SATURDAY, MARCH 2.
FRED DAWSON, Representative.
Amusements.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mb. William Anderson.
SWEPT BY OCEAN BREEZES.
JACK PRENDEGAST,
Australian Rough-Rider, with his Buck jumping Horses.
BEN HUR,
The Australian Pocket Hercules and Wrestler.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES.
The Cream of Vaudeville Novelties.
Fun-Producing Devices Without End.
TIVOLI THEATR E, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—-Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
KING and BENSON, London’s Favorite Entertainers,
4 KWEERIES in their NOVEL ILLUSION ACT.
Mr. WILL LOCHRANE. Miss PHYLLIS FAY.
LITTLE LILLY GRIMSHAW. Mr. HAROLD REEVES.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
Great Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Mr. FRANK G. KING, THREE GIBSON GIRLS,
MISS OASSIE WALMER. MISS FANNY POWERS.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. THE RAY SISTERS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
CHANTI, Quick Change Artist.
SIGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing Dog-
and Monkeys. FRED CURRAN, Singer Quaint Songs.
LEONIE DIXON, Serio-Comic and Dancer.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers.
CORA CASELLI, Song and Dance Artiste.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
Plan at Allan’s. OS’ PRICES —3s, 2s 6a, 2s, Is
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBpURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THIRD MONTH and
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Pantomime Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class- Artist:
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays
NEW THEATRE
Lessee ..
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
a Bright and Diverting Story of Australian Station Life
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in
the Great Drama of Australian Life,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
Depicting station life in the days of Ben Hall.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
EVERY EVENING,
THE WILLOUGHBY-WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY CO., including Miss Grace Palotta, in
THE NEW CLOWN.
XT' PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Five acres covered with this
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
"DEEAILAN D,”
ST KILDA.
I OPEN DAILY 2to 11 p.m. ADMISSION 6d.
j E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Direoto


WEDDING
QUALITY COUNTS FIRST in the selection of
Wedding Gifts. Perfect in taste, and of the newest
designs, combined with that enduring quality that
assures lifelong service. Our prices are the lowest con-
sistent with the quality.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed
A. SAUNDERS.
4-CUP EGG FRAME and SPOONS,
pure Silver-plated. Gilt-lined Cups
and Spoons, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut
Glass Bottles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPEKGjNE, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Tinted or clear
Glass Tube, 15s 6d. Other Stvles,
4s 3d, 5s 3d, 7s 9d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
PRESENTS.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.—Patrons will
find this book illustrated with helpful suggestions, in
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and
Optical Goods. Write for a copy. We send it post free
on request. All goods sent carriage free to any address
in Australasia. Mail Orders receive prompt attention.
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL, pure Silver-
plated, solid Silver
Handle, 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure Silver-plated, richly
and Engraved, hand finished,
size 9£in x 9£in, £2.
Other Styles, 20s, 265, 30s, 355, 40s
Embossed
50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE or BREAD SERVER, pure Silver-plated, Pearl
handle, 7in long, 12s 6d. Other styles,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated,
Al quality, richly embossed, Sheffield Steel Knife, 25s
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 60s.
SU «pR a r£ d CREAM SERVICE and 4 O’CLOCK TEi
SPOONS and TONGS, Solid Silver, handsomely
embossed, Gilt Lined, in Silk-lined Case, £4 15s
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6 10s
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver.
„ A 1 quality, hand embossed, 3s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 6s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d. 8s 6d, 10s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver.
Read design, highly burnished, llin, £2.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
li
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O’CLOCK CAKE FORKS, solid silver
handles, richly embossed,
in silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
B I
smi
BB
mm
.
£?s b
A. SAUNDERS.
t> TE 4. COFFEE SERVICE, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar and Cream
MA|S|E e ssL? FOR Vby 1 jirDS V ANIf^SONS 11, SHEFfTeLD
Other Styles, £4 4s, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, £5O.
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Luncheon CRUET, pure sil-
crystal glass bottles, 255.
cut crystal glass bottles, 255.
Other styles, 20s, 25*, 30s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Amber
or Ruby tinted Glass, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
.V2s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
CREAM JUG, pure sil-
ver-plated, At quality, gilt
lined, hand-engraved, 255.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s.
Syoneit
'szszm
Wi'Htn 11 IfsrS
| % rp-..
Mi
mmiiiiiiiii
A. SAUNDERS.
CEL LAR, Cut Glass, pure Silver
Mounts and Solid Silver Spoons, in
Case, 12s 6d, Other Styles,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and
TONGS, pure silver-
plated, gilt-lined,
10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS,
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, pure
Silver-plated, Nickel Silver, Satin
u Glass Lining, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver RATTLE and WHISTLE,
Ring, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s,
Xylonite Teething
6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
255.
A. SAUNDERS
„, A - SAUNDERS
CANDLESTICK, pure silver
Others V ierC *f d leaf base > 6s 6d
Other styles, 7s 6d, 9s 6d, i 2s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
MUSTARD POT and
SPOON, pure Silver
Mounted, fine Hobnail
Cut Glass, 7s 6d.
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, hand-
embossed, crystal glass, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s Gd, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 quality, fine hob-
nail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base, £2 10s
Other styles, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s £4 ‘
PRESENTATION INKSTANDS A SPECIALITY.
BISCUIT,
Servers, pure
satin glass lii
Other
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
silver-plated on nickel silver, A 1 quality,
ling, £3.
styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, finest embossed shaded
china, pure silver-plated mounts and servers, £2 10s.
Other Styles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 60s, 60s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDERS.
( 809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
) opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, NJS.W.


The dinner was good ? the wine excellent; the ladies
charming; and now comes the greatest pleasure of
all —my pipe of CAPSTAN Tobacco ! ”


WE MEAN BUSINESS!
OUR LEASE IS NEARLY AY AN END.
EVERY ARTICLE MUST
POSITIVELY BE SOLD
WITHOUT RESERVE*
YOUR. CHOICE
2 1
ANY ARTICLE.
REGARDLESS OF COST,
QUALITY, OR PREVIOUS
SELLING PRICE.
BARRIOS DIAMONDS
The only imitation
Diamond that has
stood, or will
stand, the
test of
time!
We still have thousands of
articles left in stock
that must be cleared
at once.
Rings, Pins, Brooches,
Earrings, Lockets,
Chains, Bangles,
Links, Studs,
Pendants,
etc.
~,^gfei[i
•!>!^BHF'..|>lUll | l|||.||||||l ,^>>!^
wm
;n
feis
riquumuu^i-^nnmiii,,,
WS&
CHO/p
E&
£
O
o
/a!
4
J&>
<?
o
»I»X»
$
*
V
+
If p
aih' ii; i
A*
Pm*..*
ISM!
flwWr'!h '/is FE
rwKXLJ'UiL jii/F .HI
agggj
*
FMi,
*
,jJIIW
o
wJBtL^jLL"i.
EACH
owe
•v'JBK
2fc
MV
Wiiiiii 1 : liii
§•&
nv
an
kisses
" --' J *
S<®fk 402
.ilM*”*
K
•k
uUttii
i»iiu
gn
*
st
9K&C
,ini'".'....u.„~,ii,i."' ia ““ ,ll >Hi
ui#
'X
:[i(iißiii„iiißiiniiiiii!!ii!iit
111111111111 l
111111 l
IP
n*
The very
same goods
we formerly
sold from Bs. to
245. each, all at
TWO SHILLINGS.
All set
with the
World Famous
BARRIOS Diamonds
in Real Gold-filled
Mountings.
MAIL ORDER.
To give those in the country the opportunity
of this grand sale, we will forward any article
illustrated or described, or that is in our
Catalogue upon receipt of 2s. for each article
with the distinct understanding that your
money will be
refunded if the
goods are not
as represented.
Description— Gent.’s Double Albert Chains
Ladies Long Muff Chains ..
Single Stone Lockets
Beautiful Crescent Brooches
Detachable Collar Stud
Necklet and Heart Pendant
Plain Curb Bangles ..
3-Stone Curb Bangles
Heart and Bar Brooches
Former Price
» >t
H »>
H 99
n jj
H 99
H H
W »
H 99
18/-
20/-
16/-
14/-
18/-
18/-
18/-
18/-
16/-
Send for our Illustrated
... Catalogue.
• • •
CAUTION . have no Branch
Shops or Agents, and
our BARRIOS DIAMONDS can be
obtained at our
TWO MAIN
DEPOTS
ONLY.
ANY ARTICLE
2
EACH.
Barrios Diamond Co.
52 SWANSTON ST.,
MELBOURNE
Open Saturdays
Till lO p.m.
100 KING STREET
SYDNEY
ANY ARTICLE
7-
EACH.


“ Melb.” reports a sermon :
On Sunday morning one Barnett, from South Africa,
lectured thereupon at Strong’s Australian Church. He
declared there was no political resemblance between
Australia and South Africa. The contrast was sharp. •
riere he breathed a freer air, through the power of White
jjiibor. Compared with South Africa, Australia is com-
pact and united, its differences being matters of no
account alongside those of the African States. The native
question is the mighty one. There never can be a White
r,abor party there. The Blacks and Darks furnish, and will
furnish, all the unskilled labor. So the Whites must
always be a middle class sort of men, except that
unskilled Whites must drop into a mean sort, too proud
to work and too poor to hire others to work for them.
British medical men are again, as Mr.
p. B. Burgoyne, the wine expert, announces,
recommending Australian wine. Whisky has
had its innings, “ a little whisky if you take any
stimulant ” having been the favorite medical
advice for a number of years. So far as medical
advice is concerned, it would be easy to divide
English history into five or ten-year periods in
\vhich whisky, brandy, aerated waters and wine
succeed one another as health drinks. It may be
that the succession is a mere habit or accident,
but it is well known that distillers of the various
brands of alcohol, as well as makers of tne gaseous
stuff called soft drinks, are always'prepared to
pay a high fee for the unbiassed support of any
prominent medical man at all likely to turn the
public taste in the direction of their own product.
“The principal physicians in London are again
recommending” should always be_ accompanied
by names, and, where possible, a list of the fees
paid. |
THIS MENS
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
FOR
7(6
7/6
/
/
.:V
rUIS is a spleqdid Watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. ' You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal. as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening- the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The persistent Sunday-trading publican,
knowing his hotel is being specially watched, has,
it seems, developed a new idea. The police
noticed a continual stream of more or. less sober in-
dividuals visiting a private house in Fitzroy (Vic.)
on a recent Sunday, and investigated. Ihe place
was void of occupants and furniture, but in a
front room with a whitewashed window were
three barrels of beer, mostly empty, ten long beer
glasses, a pint measure, two towels, and a bucket
of water. ’ The landlord said he had let the place
the previous day to a respectable-looking stranger,
and knew nothing at all about sly grog selling;
and the police believed him with difficulty.
‘Viyelia’
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
The Ideal Material
for
Shirts, Pyjamas,
&c.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading Hosiers,
Outfitters, &c.
/// ///'/Vz
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
Mental
Activity
is dependent for its success-making results upon
the way the brain cells are fed.
Right food turns “mental activity” into
pleasure and profit.
The natural, wholesome food elements from
field grains, such as Albumen, Phosphate of
Potash, etc., scientifically combined in GRAPE-
NUTS, are quickly taken up by the human
machinery for rebuilding worn-out brain cells.
The practical demonstration of this scientific
proposition may be proven by a 10 days’ use of
Grape-Nuts
“There’s a Reason.”
Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle Creek, Mich., U.S.A.
ROYAL
EASTER
SYDNEY
SHOW
Tues., March 26th, to Wed., April 3rd, 1907
hunting and trotting exhibitions.
GRAND PARADE o/ HORSES and CATTLE DAILY.
NEW CATTLE PAVILION.
NEW CARRIAGE PAVILION.
NEW DOG PAVILION.
The Biggest Show in Australasia
EXCURSION FARES ALL LINES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
entries are now being received.
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
•‘HARNESS THE WIND’’
WITH
MARTIN’S
all steel
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S &
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Go
161 Clarence St., Sydney
acetylene lamp.
m f
Z 4
mw
PRICE 27/6
m
it
Oa9d-!Vlou9ded
t
LYRIC ” RECORDS
REPRODUCE
PERFECTLY
THE SONGS and MUSIC of the
World’s Best Singers
and Players.
WILL FIT ANY
PHONOGRAPH.
r»TWir ITW.ITE. SAMPLE RECORD will be forwarded to each
Phonograph user on receipt of 6d. to cover postage f ar ' d t , . l^' k p^ E SAMPLE
number of Machine must be stated when applying for this FREE bAMPi.it.
OP ALL DEALERS,
i/-
EACH
Dept. B. COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO., Gen'l.,
255 CLARENCE ST.,
.SYDNEY.
Will An prape
BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. COOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made East, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
manv others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First’ Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ,
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. The Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest 124 S pages, over 400 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology’, Is. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
Ho’w to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
B^ ~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
The Demon Rattle Box Trick.
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Ring's,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
The “Joker” Trick Match Box
mm
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
a m a z e-
your friends, upon re-opening the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions. 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Box. Post free
anywhere for 1/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
The Look and Laugh Glass-
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All. grow
fat from laughter. It
is well and strongly made, and cannot get out of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Magic Ball
or Egg Trick.
The ball or egg placed in
the pedestal at word of
command passes through
the table, and is found
underneath, while the box is shown
empty. Full directions enclosed.
Post Free anywhere for 1/-
Write for Price List B.
The Laughing Camera.
NEW YORK
NOVELTY COfIPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
0.
0
Lv
& Js>
M
OARD
Tables.
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
»ven if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Aleoek
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
[complete catalogue, which will be
mailed free to any address.
MELBOURNE DEPOT:
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT:
422 George Street.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE_ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. p-
CAPETOWN and NATAL " £l3 13s to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
„ Agents, 7 Bent-street, Svdney.
Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON ' & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO
: WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.270 6 0
Reserve (in Govt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East’
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
__ General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial fQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuitiei
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
■ Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Whales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Borns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370*000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of flaw Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
£2,000,000.
£500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other plaoes.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
New Zealand Insurance Co*
Limited.
SHAREHOLDERS in the above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of 2s. per
share for half-year ended 30th November, 1906,
is now payable at the Company’s Office, 81 Pitt-
street, Sydney.
O. A. MfNNETT, Manager.
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... £4,000,000
Capital Paid up £l,ooo|ooo.
Reserve Fund £165,OOo!
Head Office' —96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, london, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelono.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalooorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND —Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping
business 56 * Indent ’ Merchandi se, and General Agency
Missing Friends.
Re ARCHIBALD KENNEDY, deceased.
IF this should meet the eye of Mary MacDonald
and Archibald MacDonald they will hear
of something to their advantage by communicat-
ing with the undersigned. Any information con-
cerning their whereabouts will be thankfully
received. J. W. ALEXANDER, Solicitor,
Flinders Street,
Townsville, Queensland.
JOHN JONES.-If JOHN JONES (a nephew
of WILLIAM WALLACE, late of Water-
loo, near Sydney, in the State of N.S.W.,
Licensed Victualler, deceased) will communicate
with the undersigned he will hear of something to
his advantage.
. H. J. ASPINaIX,
Solicitor, St. Jan es’ Clambers,
King and Macquarh Streets, Sydney.
Shipping.
]\r. ID. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, Ha Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
NEW Td?rmfrw E IS, Four Weeks . nia BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
5? AN,LA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
SUrpa f S " d Seafir ° in!f Qualities Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
toZ ne A^S LlTy ' F ° r ,Urther B-tioulars^S
LOIIMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
LiMinci).
Capital Paid-up .. .. __ £ 4sj, n 42 , 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 175’308 10 0
Reserve Fu.\D(lnvested in Government Stock) 6s|ooo 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE. ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.O.
1 Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throunhout thr World.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
—_ - m* — . Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen!
J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. F. S. Grimwade!
M.L.C. *
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
W-nte for Prospectus. 331 Pitt St., SYDNEY.'
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON' Via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 16th MARCH,
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and
PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
DAMASCUS
*tMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
H. A. Schleman
T. F. Spalding
A. Simpson
Noon, March 2
Noon, Mar. 20
Noon. April 26
•Twin Screw’. fCalling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 ..£l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable w'ith
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and, Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
* HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.Gr.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
K.
CRUISES J
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
Z\ Days to Auckland 8J Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu ..21 Days to’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SIERRA. Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11, 1 p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA Twin-screw, sails APRIL 1, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & 00., Ltd., Agents. 7
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
fair interest,
easy terms.
WE
cs>
&
/ Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
ZKT.S.-W.
fDontdepiete D. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAG-H ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
To Canada, United States, and
England,
NEXT SAILINGS—
MARCH 18th, APRIL 15th,
MAY 13th.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th .
The Most Comfortable Vessel on
the Pacific.
£3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. TEA
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES
comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick (one
of the cleverest tricks to be found in our varied stock)
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (<nves
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Rina- 0 r
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT .. .
held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could reeeiv (
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the
Ohemist. We issue Policies from £1 is. per annum upwards.
> DOUBLE
Doctor and
1*“ SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL £1,900,000. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
\ SUpplng.
THE ADELAIDE^TEAMSHIFCo:
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
W 2f t * Austra, ' an » South Australian,
V.otorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY, ’
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
HOPETOUN, VV.A., Port for-'
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday
March 6.
S.S. Yongrala, Wednesday
March 20.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, March 2
S.S. Warrego, March 9.
vjt est \l ,>>a <''ke*pe*t Route to Goldfield.
fiKf Pmt f SSa n e Tickets are interchangeable after
serviL. fc °K- Ca ” Wlth other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be
on application at the Company’s Office tamed
O. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,'
6 BRIDGE STREET, fxDNKY-
Messageries Maritime
FORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows
Steamer
SYDNEY
ARMAND
BEHIC .
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT ..Combe
Com
mander
Bogonani ..
Guionnel ..
Sydney,
Noov.
Mar. 25
April 22
May 20
Mel-
bourne.
1 p.m.
1907.
Mar. 2
April 25
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
1907.
Mar. 30
April 27
May 23 May 25
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75
including table wines. b ’
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
tt . SPOKEN ON BOARD. 8U
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais
bor further particulars apply at the Company's Offices
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney. ‘ ’
J. LOTH. Acting Princioal Agent
Hotels.
visitors to Melbourne"
Will find every cqpifort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
/• ST. HILDA.
T H £ Lar K est and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London. W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS /MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
.
lA/IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
* “ Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and
Private Balls
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTBY.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.


Terrible Scaly Humour in Patches
All Over the Body—Skin Cracked
and Bleeding—ltching Unbear-
able—Cured by Cuticura in Thirty
Days at Small Expense.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
CURE BY CUTICURA
“I -was afflicted with psoriasis for
thirty-five years. It was in patches all
over my body. I used three cakes
of Soap, six boxes
Cuticura Oint-
ment, and two
bottles of Cuti-
cura Resolvent. I
bathed with the
Soap, applied the
Ointment once a
day, and took the
' Resolvent as di-
rected. In thirty
days I was completely cured, and I
think permanently, as it was about five
years ago.
“The psoriasis first made its appear-
ance in red spots, generally forming a
circle, leaving in the center a spot about
the size of a silver dollar of sound flesh.
In a short time the affected circle
would form a heavy dry scale of a white
silvery appearance and would gradually
drop off. To remove the entire scales
by bathing or using oil to soften them
the flesh would be perfectly raw, and a
light discharge of bloody substance
would ooze out. That scaly crust would
form again in twenty-four hours. It
was worse on my arms and limbs, al-
though it was in spots all over my
body, also on my scalp. If I let the
scales remain too long without remov-
ing by bath or otherwise, the skin
would crack and bleed. I suffered
intense itching, worse at nights after
getting warm in bed, when it would
be almost unbearable. I would not
go through such another ordeal of afflic-
tion for thirty-five years for the State
of Kansas. W. M. Chidester, Hutch-
inson, Kan., April 20, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
.Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent Pills are sola
throughout the world. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp;, Sole
Props., Boston, U. S. A. ®si~ Mailed Free, “ How to Cure
all Humours.” Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
§5
A
natural
/ preparation. \
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice
t is not a concoction of arti- \
/ ficially made chemical crystals. \
Montserrat
\ is the pure juice of the famous West f
\ Indian Lime Fruit, specially /
*• cultivated for that purpose in /
\ the Island of Montserrat. /
The Lancet counsels
to drink.*
VMontserrat’/
ummsam
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies:
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOWS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
fOHN SANDS, 374 George St*, Sydney,
Sole Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
105,000
The Wayback Series*
Autralia laughed l ! 11 No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, 1s
BEWARE OF ~
CONSTIPATION
It
Poisons
your
Blood
CONSTIPATION is one of the most dangerous of
common ailments. It poisons your blood with
impurities drawn from the stagnant matter in
your bowels; you become dull and sleepy, you
have frequent headaches, piles, and often
offensive breath. Anaemia follows, or obstinate
skin diseases, and sometimes the kidneys break
down, leading on to rheumatism and uric acid
troubles. Mother Seigel’s Syrup regulates your
bowels, renders constipation impossible, and
cleanses your system of impurities.
“ For many years I was a great sufferer from
indigestion and constipation and became so
bad that I had to give up work. I had medi-
cine from various doctors and tried all sorts
of things, without relief. But Mother Seigel’s
Syrup completely cured me.”—From Mr.
George Lee, 2, Balmoral St., South Mel-
bourne, Victoria. July yth, 1906.
Fosters
Deadly
Disease
MOTHER SEIGELS
riTi>r<i
CONSTIPATION
SYRUP
CURES
INDIGESTION.
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU OF ITS WORTH.
"WINCHESTER
§y
Y
Black Powder Cartridges
“NEW RIVAL”
Hard, Strong, Even Shooters,
Always Sure Fire,
The Hunter’s Favorite, Because
They Always Oct The Game,
For Sale Everywhere.
• •
WEAR . .
BucKley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price*
No. io W
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
15(3
STAGS
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
1416
BUCIiLET & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
“M.P.A.”: English swimmer Dave Billxngton
was first up against Australian talent when he met Percy
Cavill at Southport (Eng.) in the mile championship in
’9B. Cavill slung it, but 13-year-old Dave kept going,
and finished eighth in a field of 18 starters. J. A. Jarvis
won. Billington’s next meeting with ’Rooland represen-
tatives was at Highgate Ponds, in ’O2, over a similar dis-
tance, against George Read and Dick Cavill. The event
was again won by Jarvis, with Billington second and
Read third. Dick Cavill was nowhere. Dave won the
mile in 1903, ’4, and ’5, and in ’O3 was specially success-
ful, winning also the quarter-mile, 500yds., half-mile, and
1000yds. championships. Three years after his meeting
with Read and Co., Dave met Australia’s, greatest
paddler, Barney liieran, and their first battle was over
the mile, the Englishman finishing in front. A fort-
night later they came together in the King’s Cup, under
special conditions. The first qualifying event was over
a quarter-mile, and the swimmer had to rescue a supposed
drowning person in the last 40yds. Billington won from
Kieran, and in the second qualifying race—lsovds. —
Dave was again in front. He pulled out a supposed
drowner in good time, and won the cup. In the five mile,
held later, Kieran finished 7sec. behind Dave. After the
“ five,” Barney' swam in better form, and in the J-mile at
Southport, the 500yds. at Leeds, and the £-mile at
Leicester, he was ahead of Billington every time. Alto-
gether the pair met seven times, Dave securing the first
four events. Under record conditions, which means that
a course not less than 110yds. in length must be covered
without a turn, Billington’s best time for the mile is
24min. 42sec.,made in Highgate Ponds, the slowest water
in the Cold Country. A Highgate pond is the muddiest
of apologies for a lake.
* • » •
It never rains but it pours (except when it
drizzles), and Christian Webb and the Australian got
back from their defeat in the championship races in
Westralia just in time to be beaten for the State 18ft.
championship by George Holm os, in the Donnelly, on
Saturday week. It is supposed that Australian damaged
its hoom rounding the mark, as, although Donnelly had
got a dangerous lead, Australian was never pushed hard
in pursuit, and hoisted only a small spinnaker instead of
the ballooner on the runs. But, in spite of this handi-
cap, the fine boat sailed into second place, with Zena,
Vision, and Mona, in that order, behind.
* * * *
George Ellis, Sydney’s veteran skipper, has
been appointed sailing instructor to a club in Vancouver,
Canada, and was recently entertained and presented
with a purse of sovereigns prior to his departure for his
new position in a very cold land.
• « • •
Lipton, who has spent many tens of thousands |
in vain attempts to win the America Cup, gets hearty
acceptance, even in America, for his protest against the
racing conditions which have handicapped him “ All
the races up to now have been held under the old
measurement rule of 55 years ago. It only represents a
freak or machine of a boat, dangerous to everybody who
crosses the Atlantic in it, and of no advantage to
yachtsmen, as there is nothing to learn from such a craft.
The international rule which applies to Great Britain,
Russia, France, Spain and Germany, and the universal
rule wliich applies to the United States, differ from each i
other, but they represent a seaworthy type of boat. It I
was a 1 healthy ’ type of boat which competed in the first )
race, and nobody ever thought it would have developed
into such freaks as are now required.” Under the uni- I
versal rule made 2J years ago he is perfectly willing to
challenge, and all Americans he has come in contact with
wished the next race to be under that rule. It rests
with the New York Club to say whether that shall be
so. The expense of Lipton’s challenge for the America
Cup will be lessened if the yacht is made easily sailable
on an Atlantic trip, for then it will be easily saleable
afterwards.
* * * *
The Hog in the Car has succeeded in turning
St. Kilda road —Melbourne’s avenue de luxe —into a night-
mare. At all hours of the day motors whiz along the
road twirling round trams, dodging horse vehicles, and
occasionally running down pedestrians, cyclists and
dogs. It is regarded as a speedway specially laid for the
man with the raging vehicle. The ordinary citizen com-
plains because every time a motor passes he is covered with
dust and suffocated with the decayed smell of exploded
petrol. The ratepayer sees the roadway flying from the
wheels of the car and groans. But something of a remedy
has been found. A conference of the councils interested
has decided to pass a by-law restricting motor cars to the
sides of the road (the* road is built in three sections).
After this regulation has been passed the public will be able
to watch the motorists drowning one another in dust and
taking one another’s back wheels off, and instead of
motors running three abreast they will have to go in
something like a line, each one smelling its predecessor.
* * * *
The U.S.A. railroad companies now allow
private motor cars to travel over their lines, supplying
special wheels for the purpose, at a cost of l£d. per mile.
Heavy cars make up to 40 miles an hour with safety.
The practice has caught on, for in the States the roads
are about 150 per cent, worse than they are in Victoria,
and there they are not fit for cows. These cars have to
be treated as special, or, as they call them in tire States,
•* wild ” trains, and as it is the “wild ” train that most often
comes to grief in the States, there are going to be some
pretty smashes shortly. A number of motorists are pro-
posing to ask N.S.W. Railway Commissioners to allow
similar facilities, but the result is doubtful. Australians
aren’t so philosophical about big smashes as the U.S. folk
are.
• * * *
“Ph,oemx” : This is the tale of a punter whom I
knew. After several little flutters on the ponies, he
eventually blossomed into a full-blown punter. He had
a fairly-good business, a good wife, and a growing family,
but he gradually punted himself out of the business, and
his wife, being a clever woman with her needle, was sub-
sequently punted out to work, whilst the kiddies were
punted into the street. He was a great believer m form,
and punted on it. Stable secrets were another weakness
of his, causing more punting, but the whispering “Do
you know anything?” the ‘ 1 tale-telling” and ‘‘ lug-biting,”
which occupied his attention whilst patrolling the pave
of Pitt-street and punting his little bit in the punting
little tote shops, day after day, week after week, and
year after year, finally brought him to such a
general state of seediness as to cause the bobby on
the beat to punt him off the footpath into the gutter.
Still he continued punting, actually expecting
some day to “get even with them.” But when
the Anti-Gambling Act was passed and he and
several hundred other Pitt-street nuisances found they
could punt there no more, their indignation and language
—especially language—were free and eloquent. “Lor’
blime 1 Do yer think the blanky country’s goin’ to stand
it ? Can’t a blanky blanky man do wot he likes with ’is
own ? W’y, we’ll get up indignation meetings and rouse
the blanky country ! First they shuts the bloomin’ pubs
on us. Then they goes an’ blocks a blanky feller from
o-ettin’ a quid or two now an’ agin at the two-up schools.
And now they’ve parsed this blanky, blanky Act to prevent
a blcke from doin’ wot ’e likes with ’is own.” After that
I lost sight of my old friend the punter.
* » * *
“N.L.” : The remarks on old-time methods of
horse-racing (B. 24/l/’O7) recall the races that formed a
curious feature of Rome’s annual Carnival up to a couple
of decades ago. Horses without riders were set to gallop
down the Corso, between a long line of vehicles. They
were fitted with a spring contrivance, which spurred
them more and more the faster they went, and they kept
going till stopped by a large sheet spread across the
| street. The races frequently ended in accidents to the
i frightened animals or to members of the crowd. The
prize was a rich piece of velvet, at one time contributed
by the Jews living in Rome. There is a tradition that,
in earlier years, the Hebrews themselves were forced to
run races down the Corso to make a Christian holiday.
« • * »
Britain has an anti-gambling statute in its
Street Betting Act j it came into operation on last
New Year’s Day, and fell on the perambulating layer of
the odds with an axe. A section of the measure prevents
betting on grounds where cycling and foot-races are
being held and a great psean of joy has gone up from the
National Cyclists’ Union and the Amateur Athletic Asso-
ciation in consequence. The presence of the bookmaker
had the same disastrous effect on bike and hoof sports in
Fn<*land as in Australia, and it was a case of either the
umi't or the bookmakers going. All of which is calcu-
lated to bring sorrow to the camp of the N.S.W. Cyclists
Association.
“A man can’t help ‘condescending’ to
another who will persist in kissing his shoe-
string.”—Thackeray. Before we snort at the
condescension of a vice-regal person in Australia
let ns note the attitude of the adjacent citizens.
The Jookoyork in Adelaide had to condescend to
have his hand kissed by a mayor, or somebody.
He couldn’t help it. He strove to get his hand
free, but his worshipper persisted in dragging it
to his lips.


w
5.
A discriminating man who
has once experienced the
thick, cream-like lather of
Williams’ Shaving Stick, the
exquisite soothing and re-
freshing effect on his face,
the feeling of safety and
satisfaction that its purity
guarantees, is not easily per-
suaded to accept a substi-
tute. If he does, it’s at the
expense of his face.
“The only kind that won’t
smart or dry on the face.”
Sold by chemists, hairdressers and perfumers all over the
world or mailed to any address on receipt of price in stamps
Williams’ Shaving Sticks, Is.; Williams’Luxurv Tablets,
Is.; Williams’ American Shavins; Tablets. Gd. (Trial sizel
of Williams’ Shaving Stick, Gd,
The J.
65 Gt. Russell
Lagarde, Paris
Wales. Head (
U. S. A.
B. Williams Company
St., London, W. C.; 4 Rue Chauveaux
; 161 Clarence St., Sydney, New South
office and factories, Glastonbury, Conn.,
THIS RAZOR isA
A GOOD-TEMPERED
RAZOR
PRICE 10/8, Post Free
anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d.
Singrle Razor in Leather Case, to/6.
Never rasps—pulls— scrapes—or
lifts —is a beautifully tempered
Razor with a keen set edge, and
it CUTS the hair from the face.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
>E MARK
Ufidwon.
IN GOOD
COMPANY
Every young man should have an
Edison Phonograph.
You can hear Vaudeville, Comic Opera, Minstrels, or any other
home ° f V ° Cal ° r Instrumental Entertainments right in your own
Whether you invite your friends to an evening “smoker” or
“Mis the bm P ” in UneXpe ° tedly ’ the Edison Phonograph completely
If you have envied your talented and witty friends their popu-
larity, here is your opportunity to become a good fellow and make
your rooms the merriest rendezvous in the place.
• "fu y i° U / iddin p> the Phonograph will tell the funniest stories,
sing the latest popular songs, or play the finest operatic selections.
D o not be misled or prejudiced by the distressing noises of
inferior imitations.
Write us for some descriptive printed matter and we will tell vou
the name of your nearest dealer who will be pleased to play you
selections—your choice—free of charge. Sit down and write now
The NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. of AUSTRALIA, Ltd.
Dept. B. 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WEALTH
0
S»^
V2l
SP*
hat is health 1 To this the answer is : A perfect structure of all the organs of
digestion and elimination, with a perfect performance of all their functions. Health
and happiness are possessions we all desire to obtain and retain. You cannot be
healthy with a sluggish liver or inactive kidneys; sometimes these organs get thrown
out of action on account of improper food or drink, sometimes from a faulty
metabolism. Nature then requires assistance, and it is of paramount importance
that the right aid should be employed in dealing with these delicate pieces of
mechanism. It has been known from time immemorial that certain European spas
which have acquired world-renowned fame on account of their possessing remedial
and health-giving properties, form a natural stimulant for the liver and act as a
cleansing agent for the kidneys. The health-giving and remedial properties of these
tamous spas are now incorporated in Kutnow’s Powder, which is universally
acknowledged by the most eminent physicians to be a most perfect remedy for all
liver, kidney, stomach and bowel disorders.
TAKE KUTNOW’S POWDER
The INFALLIBLE REMEDY.
The principal organs concerned in effecting the separation of deleterious substances from the blood are the
strath Z B wfknoTthat SO I 10ngaS ‘ he r TVi efflciently “ l 01 '« may the l*alth and
— , re 3C.3; xs: xxri. ",rxrs '“t Hr —5 r “
r & •> wmcn rror. .Lawson lait, M.D., so highly recommended—“ KTJTNOW’S POWDER.”
HEALTH
KUTNOWS
powder”
X<a-
w
GENERAL DUNSTERVILLE
WRITES :
<< tT Th ® Aven uG, Upper Norwood, 29th May, 1905.
Dear Sirs,—l began to use Kutnow’s Powder about
a fortnight ago, and, finding it both palatable and effica-
cious I have procured a bottle of the regulation size, and
mean to have some always by me. I visit Heidelberg
every year and am glad to find that my friend Dr°
Glassner, Efof-Apotheker there, stocks it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“L. DUNSTERVILLE, Lieut.-General.”
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine and Original Xutnow’s Powder
can be had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ld.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
REV. E. R. GIBBENS
WRITES :
“Wesleyan Methodist Church, Tonbridge,
“ 13th October, 1900.
“Gentlemen, —For some weeks I have been using
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I have derived great
benefit. Bilious trouble has disappeared and rheumatic
pains have been entirely removed. I can very confidently
recommend this preparation.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) E. R. GIBBENS.”
r ?P |rietol 'S: $■ KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London,
, EX.


Si Britisb=flustralasfan
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d«
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Beitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Take None But
The Trustworthy
King ol
Briar Pipes
obtainable
from all Tobacconists
0 0
0 0
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, and beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .£3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvem ents, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £IS. Sale Price, £lO
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. fid. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. ..£Ol5O
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
my
~jG*CNS
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
Facile Princeps”
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness. Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)—UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
Ceorge St., Sydney.
[Ask your Stationer for a Sampled
mWILUAM MITCHELLSIkin'I
2; WILLIAM
•o MITCHELL’S
CD IST CLASS SHOULDER
IN°. 9. First Class Shoulder Pen
[The ORIGINAL Quality By The ORIGINAL MAKER.J
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH,
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
161 KING ST., SYDNEY
i tni* Sr r'Kotlci'oon'li fif.rppts.
Ladies 9 Hairdressers, *v* , - , .
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereag-h Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. - *®
Parisian nrineiple suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPLTS, FBIiNULb, AAikb, auiij
EEQOBITES jnd tSi.OK. Zl&
. .. " & DRESSIHC BOOMS OM CROUMP FLOOR.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE l OR N.S.W.
268 George Street, Sydney*
LIFE ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN Oi NE POL/CK.
* ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, Payable 60 °r for Permanent Total
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (1) £2ooo.ifE death takes place as rf t
. Disablement; (3) £6OO for Permanent Partia t ’. d /g\ jg 6 per week for incapacitation through
FREE FOR WRITING.
GUARANTEED GORE FOR DRUNKENNESS.
For 30 Days we are giving away Free Samples of the Renowned EUCRASY.
Send for Booklet and Samples ; enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
on or address THE EUCRASY CO., 62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SLAVES TO DRINK CAN NOW BE CURED !
WORTH It’s fame, like gold, the more ’tis tried WORLD
KNOWING The more shall its intrinsic worth proclaim. VVIDE
EU CRASY
( Registered by the Government of N.S.W.)
The Celebrated and ONLY Safe, Sure and Speedy ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
The System once impregnated with this
Remedy, the Use of Alcohol MUST Cease.
i THOUSANDS PROVE IT !
Highest Endorsement from. VT. F.
Stanton, Esq., J.F , S. of T., and
1.0.G.T.
W. F. STANTON and 00., Watchmakers and Jewellers,
22 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
May 16,1904.
E. H. NORTON, Esq., Eucrasy Company, Sydney.
Dear Sir,—As a lifelong Abstainer, a Son of tem-
perance, and Good Templar, I for years past recog-
nised Drunkenness as a disease, not a crime. Wnen
you, in 1596, introduced your Eucrasy Treatment,
I became keenly interested, and recommended, it so
that I could more closely watch its results. My ex-
perience with what I may term my patients has been
such that I can, without any hesitation, testify to its
curative effects, and, without any soliciting on your
part, I give this testimonial, believing sincerely that
by so • doing I am carrying out my temperance
pledges, “To do all in my power to advance the
I wish you success, for every patient cured adds to
the influence the Temperance Party require to enact
Prohibitory laws. You are at liberty to use this testi-
monial as you deem fit.—Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) W. F. STANTON, J.P.
Mrs. SCOTT writesOh, how happy I am that
my husband has lost all his appetite for whisky.
Your remedy is surely a blessing for drunkards.’
Mr. JOSEPH KLOSTERMAN, Cobar, N.S.W.,says:
—“ It is eight years ago since I sent for EUCRASY,
and after a lapse of eight years I think a person should
be able to pass his opinion. I am pleased to say that
your medicine has done wonders for me. I am fre-
quently in the company of smokers and drinkers,
but have no desire myself for either liquor or tobacco.
If this statement should be of any benefit you are
at liberty to use same for publication, and 1 remain,
Yours thankfully,
(Sgd.) JOSEPH KLOSTERMAN.
Eloquent Words from a Wife who
Rescued Her Husband from a
Terrible Habit.
SECRETLY GAVE HIM A REMEDY IN HIS COFFEE,
AND HE NOW REJOICES WITH HER.
Who can doubt there is a cure for Drunkenness when
we have such an eloquent and emphatic statement
from Mrs. K. Lynch ? She says “My husband was a
hard drinker. There was never a doubt in my mind
but that liquor had so worked upon his nerves as to
actually control his appetite. Like most men who
drink, he was kind and generous when sober, but the
whisky demon usually had the better of him, and his
wife had to suffer. One day I concluded to try a
remedy call d Eucrasy, which it was said would cure
the liquor habit secretly. So I mixed some of it with
Mr. Lynch’s food for a few days, and put a little in his
coffee. I could scarcely conceal my agitation Test he
should suspect me, for he had suddenly taken a dislike
to liquor, said he despised the stuff, and was the most
remarkably chang'ed man you ever saw. I kept bravely
at it, determined not to waver in my attempt to cure
him, and I soon found out that my mission was a com-
plete success, and that Eucrasy had wrought almost a
miracle for me. I want other women to profit by my
example.”
MISS WELLAND, who cured her father after years
of misery wretchedness, and. almost unbearable suffer-
ing says: “ I shall be so glad if you publish my experi-
ence for it will reach many others, and let them
know about the wonderful EUCRASY. I will do all I
can to help any suffering sister who will write me.”
MRS. J. HATTON, who cured her husband by Eucrasy,
writes us that she has cured also a near and dear rela-
tive. and makes a most earnest appeal to all other
1 women to save the drunkard.
The EUCRASY neutralises the effect of Alcohol, and promptly corrects and stays its use.
Send to us for scores of testimonials received daily from all parts.
TO THE DIFSOMANTAC
EUCRASY is a Positive and Certain Antidote
to Drink, and CURES THE WORST CASES.
A CURE FOR DRUNKEN NEC'S FREE FOR WRITING.
For 30 Days we are GIVING AWAY FREE SAMPLES of the World-Renowned EUGRASY.
A Boon to Wives, Mothers, and Sisters, Cure for Sons, Brothers, Husbands.
It costs absolutely nothing to try the Sample. Send your name and address,
with 6d. in Stamps to cover postage, to
The Eucrasy Co.,
62 Hunter St.,
.^SYDNEY,
and they will send you A SAMPLE of the Marvellous EUGRASY,
with Book of Instructions, in a plain sealed envelope.
Consult HERR RiSSIRSSEH,***
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men at/faline VITALITY PILLS
Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Will th strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
t"" retuSn of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
They secure tne p t Melancholia. Despondency, and Despair.
lnieS°6s & n i2s Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
Boxes, 6s. & 1Z . cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOOD CURE PILLS. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
rn xES 6s COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
Dcnfps 6s His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. Weakness Boxes , 6s courses. 23 6.
Weak Women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
, mT _ . crTATTr a PTT.LS a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
’uvefpmfcure ls. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branch"* 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEV ST., ADELAIDE;
Brancnes. w n , H ANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD &. CO.
h 276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY,
Champion Pugs
Squires could not put up a better fight
The Fearless
Fighters
MOST
LIFELIKE
AND
amusing
Full
Pr.mrd
D«rec
s ®*~
Ij*
posted
For the finest exhibition
of fearless and deter
mined Boxing, with all
the scientific drives,
feints guards, uppci
cots, point and
solar plexus blows,
delivered with vigor
and precision!
you may de.
pend upon
the champion
Price, only One Shilling
obtainable only bkom the
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 ELIZABETH STREET. MELBOURNE.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, lumbago,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co,, 229, Strand,
London, England
a
KNOWN THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The Pelman-Foster
System of Memory
_— rnwßßMnrwr memM{Wxm ■————M msbeeel*4B
(OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION)
Is Thoroughly Taught in Five
j Postal Lessons.
MIND WARDERING CURED !
SPLENDID TESTIMONIALS.
Write for FREE BOOK which will tell you
all about it.
The Secretary, Box 402, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
ENCLAND —4 Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.
AFRICA, FRANCE, GERMANY, INDIA.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of lites
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
rcr
AUdicator, sizo
35 Inches Iqojj.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the iungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ios. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
FAT FOLKS
REDUCE
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars lree. Address
J AS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.


600 SONGS
WORDS and MUSIC ft /ft
for Jm )
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Sons
which for various reasons are denied the average
musm and song- lover. It may be that your local music-
sellei does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
nevv, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellers
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of
one book. In it are to be found songs old and
25 w suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous—without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic. &c
including such world-famous favorites as “Annie
“Pohln . . J . ua h i l ta” ‘‘My Ileart’s in the Highlands,”
Robin Adair, Killarney,” “Save the Boy,” “In Old
“Mvßihi T Me 2 °! Harlech,” “Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ir Klb J e * ea^ s * “ Bonnie Earl of Murray,”
Maryo Argyle, “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
iw", o Highlandl Mary,” “Kitty of Coleraine,” “Prayer
unng Battle, and scores of old-time favorites, priceless
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,
such as Comrades, “Leonore,” and “That is Love”
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem
ot Songs. We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. lOd.) • if P N
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d.’extra for
Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere.
Address—
The Publishing Coy.,
*6Ob George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases. i
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. [
by F. C.Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. 1
Free! Free!
To the Sick and
Ailing Everywhere
THE CURE FOR YOUR DISEASE
Delivered Free-Free for the
Asking—Free to You.
tTo the siek— the suffering—to every man and
woman victim of
organic disease-
local trouble or
broken general
health—Dr. Kidd’s
offer of free treat-
ment is given in the
absolute faith and
sincere belief that
they can and will
stop disease, cure
it and lift you up
again to health and
vigor. There is no
reason why you
should not get well
if you will only
bring yourself to
take the free test
treatment of these
W9nderful rem-
edies, no matter
what your doubts
may be.
I Want the Doubters
- nt t° Sive them the proof—the evidence
and the glory of new life in their own bodies—
» n< \n « ant t 0 P a y the oost of this proof-all of
**—to the very last cent—myself.
„„ ve , P**t my life into this work—l hold the
record of thousands of cures—not “some better’’
—but thousands of desperate sufferers, hearty
and strong and big and well; and their letters
are in my hands to prove every word I sav
Rheumatism, kidney troubles, heart disease"
fi ar ±fr Par^ ,ySIS ’ . l . ,ladder troubles, stomach and
, ° vv '® l troubles, piles, catarrh, bronchitis, weak
lungs, asthma, chronic coughs, nervousness all
female troubles, lumbago, skin diseases, scrofula
impure blood, general debility, organic vital ah'
cured. 8 ' are CUred to remain continte
No matter how you are, no matter what vour
disease, I will have the remedies sent to you and,
mto your own hands free, paid for by me
and delivered at my own cost. y e
These Remedies Will Cure
They have cured thousands of ca«jp<?
every disease—and they do cure and thlv??* } 7
reason why they Bhould not cure you-makevu
of llvingf bnng y ° U back t 0 healVand the y joy
Will you let me do this for you-will vou let
me prove it-brother and sister sufferers? Aro
you willing to trust a master physician who til
off-t but Dubffis?” l Jd°ther
proof of his remedies withou
,nvAno uj . /• «
sends the test and prooi oi bis remedies v
a penny of cost to anyone except himself ?
Send your name, your Post Office address am
a description of your conditio.,, and I will do m
utmost to satisfy every doubt von Q 0
have that these remedfes will slve your life am
make it all that nature meant to make it
Jjefc me make you well. Give me vmiv
and tell me how you feel, and the proof S
ment is yours at my c # ist. No bills of any kind-
DR. JAMES W. KIDD,
Box 50.6, PORT WAYNE, IND.
NOTE. —Dr. Kidd’s methods and his offer
aie exactly as represented in every respect.
I
CJ
-■ ' :
© i
'
3 ’PeerlessToilef Preparations
unrivalled for the Complexion,
SoFteninJ) & BeauHfyin^the5Kin.
» ol >D medal, par is. 1900.
GRAND PRIX. ST LOU IS. l^O};
CHEMISTS
mmm
1
*
N-
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H.R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Storekeepers,
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
THE WONDERFUL # #
MAJESTIC
PHONOGRAPH
AND 6 RECORDS,
COMPLETE, 20/-.
Never before has such a Phonograph offer been
made at the price. The “MAJESTIC ”is a wonderful
instrument it plays—talks—laughs—sings and gives
splendid results. Nothing to get out of order—and is
so easy to work that a child could handle it.
We have over 20,000 Eecords of Songs, Band
Pieces, Operatic Selections, etc., etc., from which you
can make your selection.
The Majestic Phono-
graph and 6 Standard
Size Records sent Free
anywhere
for . . .
20/-
Write for Lists of Records and Catalogs of Instruments.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., “my opticians,”
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE STREET
/Facing
VRoyal Hotel
)
SYDNEY
ye° ul oTnt mlelit
Tn nee since 1596 1 W t " 1 *
CURES
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is*
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road Loadon? Eng
ASTHMA CURE
IGHIMAULTSIimHCIGARETTFI
SSMasssgs*
ETTE3. Sold by aUcLZu! 8 INDIAN CIa A»-
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send
postage, b fo r h ’ P ° Stal note ° r StampS f ° r 1/_ «“*
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to the late I Tr. Cecil Ehodes.
W. It. Crladstone, and thousands c.' others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL <p f London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA.
Private Address— Woodville, Mt. Albeet.
Pill in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name.
Address
Date of Birth.
MEN ONLY!
Why be a Weakling-? Why be a failure when
health would make you a success in life '• Act
to-day. Delays are dangerons
The Homoeopathic Treatment
Cures Debility Restores Vitality
Banishes Weakness.
Renews Sprightliness
and Vigor,
Makes Weak Men
Strong, and Strong
Men Stronger.
Homoeopathic Treatment
will cure you quickly and surely. Write
to-day and we will send you FREE
sealed, the sth Edition of our Brochure
“ WORDS OF WISDOM,”
a valuable Medical Booklet. Address-
THE
IBVING Homoßopatliie Institute,
Corner Hunter & Bligh Sts., SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
PIET
This DIET is recommended
| in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
AHenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “AHenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd.j and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
<V>'
# 4? Jr
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo*** welcome relief
in a very short time.
S'
&
$
<s>
and OINTMENT


“ Ku Klux ” : Do you believe in microbes,
Brother Bulletin? I used to, but after an
experience I had the other day, well--. The
boss sent me to a south-of-the-Yarra timber-yard
for a load. He wrote out the items on a part of a
paper bag, which had been wrapped round Ins
lunch. I stuck it in my boot about the only
place I can keep anything. I han <fed lfc to a
foreman, who mauled it all over, and then sent
me to the office. Three different clerks mauled
it some more, and one put it in his mouth whi e
he hunted for some more papers. Next the
original order was handed over to a tally-man,
who studied it with care, then placed it inside
the crown of his hat, and took me out to the yard
again. He got me some timber, removing the
hit occasionally to study the items. Now and
then he placed the paper in his mouth while he
turned over the timber. Then he sent me to
another yard, where two more tally-men took
charge of the paper, t and for ten or fifteen
minutes that paper was resting comfortably inside
the crown of a hat —that is when it wasn t in
the owner’s mouth. Finally it was given in
charge of a boy, who conveyed it back to the
office inside the crown, of his hat. I am quite
sure there are no microbes, for I watched him,
and he got there safely. He should have fallen
down dead if there had been anything in the
’crobe theory.
A Maoriland dentist tells a yarn ot how a
lady visited him and required six teeth to be
drawn under gas. He suggested that she should
loosen her corsets, and delicately retired from the
room for a few minutes. On his return he found
that the lady was installed in the chair, attired in
an expectant air and nothing else.
| spies’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.,
Our Cutter, hlr. Mukphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO,
Ladies’ Xailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between Georgy and Pitt Streets).
VIGOR
No Woman
should be.
Weak and .
Sick . . .
%
7f
X'fcj’U
m
am?
V.V't
I H I
111
Hill
VITALITY
No Man .
need be .
run-down .
and
Debilitated-
Dr. McLaughlin’S Electric Belt
Is not only itself guaranteed, but it is guaranteed to cure in every case undertaken by_us With.each case
us as curable, and accepted as such, we give a written guarantee to refund the money paid us if the fails to cu g
when we accept the case. No other medical institution ever made such an offer to its patients—we can do so. -Because
our appliance and know our Specialists’ ability and their desire to promise only what they know they can num.
No other remedy is like Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt It fills the nerves and tissues with new life * and
adds new strength to the system with each day’s use. Remember we take all the risk once we accept Die „ R
Indi gesßon^Dysp^sins<>mn Va.ricocele, Rupture;
an<l S th'eTn^rat^mfl^iTd^naSJa^fufe 6 for Sciatica (it elongates the sciatic nerve) and all BW and Nerve
Complaints. Worn while you sleep it pumps new life and vigor into your body for hours at a time, and cures to stay cu .
Cures Prove the Value of our Assertions.
READ THIS LETTER.
A FIRST-CLASS REMEDY.
SHEPHERDS TOWN, N.S.W.
Dear Sir,—l always take great pleasure in recom"
mending Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, as it has
proved itself to be all you claimed it. It has done
me a lot of good, and I have not been laid up since I
first began its use. It certainly ranks ahead of every-
thing else as a first-class remedy for general nerve
and organic complaints when your instructions are
carried out. lam sure that any sufferer cannot go
wrong by obtaining one of your Belts.
Yours faithfully,
J. DOOLEY.
Send Us THis Coupon for Our FREE HEALTH BOOK.
FREE BOOK.
On receipt of
this Coupon
we will send you one
of our Grand Illustrated Books, which contains full
information about our Belt, and much valuable and
interesting- information for suffering men and women.
. . CALL, if possible, and consult our
Specialist. His Professional Advice is absolutely
FREE, and he will tell you candidly whether
our Belt will cure you or not. Hours —9 to 5.30.
W Gar,
The Dr. McLaughlin 00.
Dear Sirs,—Please send me your Free Book.
Address
The Dr. McLaughlin Co., Market s t .,
MAIN ENTRANCE IN CASTLEREAGH ST. y-
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
BOOKS you cant get elsewhere
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lam ar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is*
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. moll
Flanders, a rare boon Dy De Foe, is posteci.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All /lola
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating hie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason s
Big Horse Book ans How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is bo.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibOr Raymond, Is ; post, is 6a.
Georgette, Is ; post, i s 3d. The Cuckold, Is , post,
ls3d. All Tire Bulletin series. Du. Carver s Iricks
and Diversions with Cards, ill us., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How ro
- ’ r j p _ _ ’ci Qrni,'WfiH (IF I iTFFI.
ijs ou. lUAiiu.urii o Fortune
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power ((Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s-9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Ciiiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3(1. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love,. 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is ba.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Yamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, ds Gd.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR «PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men ana
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elemf,nts of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the 1 irst
Night, Is 3d. Women’s ls post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pF" Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, la. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bbsii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford a Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Lovf, and Parentage, Bd,
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1.106
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8a
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEAD 3
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 end 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Cockle’s Hntibilious Pills.
‘•I do no. hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the klngdom."-Dn. G. F. Coll,an. in the Pharmacopeia of the Royal College of Phystciansof U>
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a fam y
j’fje Xarjcet describes it as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirable
preparation.”
Zl\e British Medical Journal
says—
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
»"d AGED.
Benoer's fooD Is sold in Tin 9
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonSt? Melbourne#
WEST. AUSTRAL! A /?(.
395 & 397 Hay St Perth (l
QUEENSLAND (fV^
Queens Edward S* Brisbane'
NEW ZEALAND
1465143 Queen St. Auckland
153 LambtorvQuay.Wellington.
2365333 HighS t ,Christchurch.C
Princes 5 DowlingS* Dunedin.
£
I
If If its from
[STEWART DAWSOIIS
•ini ifsgood. Hi
sm —g|
r
a
a
Write the
store nearest
you.
9Q9<sq
Any article cfoown here will be sent _
free of expense and at our risk
absolutely on receipt of remittance. When you open up the. goods
and they do not entirely meet with your views, return them and
your request for your mcney will be like a cheque on a bank.
Catalogues on request. Write for one to-dav.
G3sB6.—Silver-plated Jam Dish
and Spoon, 6s 6d.
E4lB2.—Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 13s 6d.
HU
E3o44—Silver-plated
Butter Dish and Knife,
10s 6d
F7o9s—Silver-
plated Balance
Pepper Pot, 4s 6d.
Large, 6s 6d.
352 A. Silver-plated
Breakfast Cruet, 12/6.
Silver-plated Candle
Stick, 8s 6d.
G 3585 —Silver-plated Butter Dish
and Knife, 6s 6d.
E23s9.—Silver-plated Sugar and Oream
on Tray, £1 10s.
F7739—Silver-plated Jam Dish and
Spoon, 17s 6d.
H2o6s—Silver-plated
Serviette Ring-, 3s.
G2222—Silver-plated Tea Pot
Stand, 14s 6d.
G472o—Silver-plated Cake Basket, 16s 6d.
A Special One, 30s.
E 6636. Silver-plated Breakfast Frame, £1 ]ss.
H 1678 —New Style Silver-plated
Honey Jar and Spoon, 17s 6d.
-Silver-plated Covered Ratter Disl>,
16s 6d.
G6Bl7—Small Size Silver-plated
Rose Bowl, 10s 6d.
G 4877. —Silver-plated and Engraved
Sugar, 12s 6d.
Cream Jug to match, 10s 6d;
H 1679. —Silver-plated and Cut Glass
Pickle Jar, 16s 6d.
GB49B.—Silver-plated Rose Bowl,
Small size, 7s 6d.
ifiifis
Gs2oo—Finest China and Silver-plated Fruit Dish, £2 7s
GBB42.—Kew Style Silver-
plated Sugar Scuttle,
20s.
G 4260. —Silver-plated Covered
Butter Dish, £1 ss.
F6l3l—Silver-plated Toast Rack, 22s 6d
H44s—Silver-plated Golf
Cruet, 21s.
HlBol. New Style Silver-plated
Marmalade and Spoon, 14s 6d.
345A —Out Glass and Silver-
plated Butter Dish and Knife
255.
F6l3o—Silver-plated Toast Rack,
21s.
127874. Silver-plated Honey Jar
and Spoon, 255.
Gs262.—Silver-plated Cheese Dish, £2 ss.
>■' 1 - ' -• J
*w>
H2oCS—Silver-plated Card Receiver, 10s 6d.
GBos2—Silver-plated Toast Back, 18s 6d.
H 1590 Old Sheffield Style best Silver-plated Entree Dish £4
Others 425, 455, 62s 6d, 68s, 70s.
m :
■fim
—Best Quality Silver-plate and
Polished Oak Biscuit Barrel, £1 is.
GBB44.—S'lver-plated
Bamboo Gong and
Striker, 21s.
G 7583 Very Handsome Six-Oup Egg Cruet and Spoons, £2 10s
H2062.-Silver-plated Child’s Oup, 10s 6d
G4s77—Silver-plated Marmalade
Dish and Spoon, 13b 6d.


PHYSICAL CULTURE DEMONSTRATOR.
-FINDS ZAM-BUK BALM INVALUABLE-
MR. R. HARDY. '
To the A. 'Mete, Housewife and Breadwinner alike, Zam-Buk Balm is
invaluable for ' Cuts, Abrasions, Bruises, Stiffness, Strained or Lacerated
Muscles and T tndons ; and, as an Embrocation for Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Tmnbano Crai. W, all affections of the Muscles, Zam-Buk is unrivalled, ii
Mr. Robert Hardy, of West Street, Petersham, Sydney, an able
authority on all matters appertaining |to Physical Culture, who, through
his kindly and ever-ready assistance and support to any movement which
tends to improve the health and physical standard of the citizens is widely
known throughout Sydney and suburbs, has, during his remarkable feats
of strength, had to suffer personally from probably almost every variety
of strain, bruise and abrasion, and consequently is thoroughly acquainted
with the majority of existing embrocations. His opinion, therefore, upon
the value of Zam-Buk Balm as a .Healing and Embrocating agent comes
ripe from the school of long and varied experience. Mr. Hardy has
met, and is a friend of many of the better class of strong men .in
Australia and the United 1 Kingdom. His feats of bending one-quarter
inch and three-eighth inch steel nails with the bare hands are perhaps,
unequalled in Australasia, and the extension of a 14-strand chest ex-
pander, which two strong men pulling against each other cannot draw
out 5 is astonishing.
In speaking of the benefits he has derived from the use of Zam=Buk Balm, Mr. Hardy says:—
“ Having for years been an enthusiastic Physical-culturist, I have had many opportunities of testing
most of the Healing Balms and Embrocations marketed frqm time to time, but I can confidently say
that I have not found any to equal Zam-Buk Balm. For injuries in the way of cuts, bruises, abrasions,
etc., received while performing some of my feats of strength—such as bursting chains fastened around
the -chest and-biceps—l have -found it to be of great utility, the prompt soothing and expeditious healing
of these being very gratifying. I' might state that the chief value of an Embrocation—in which most
fail—lies' not so much in its power of lubricating the muscles and acting as an adjunct to massage, as
the virtue of penetrating right through the tissues and imparting firmness, strength and elasticity. I
find all these rare and sterling qualities are embodied ixl Zam-Buk Balm. It is as efficient as a warming,
soothing, and stimulating Embrocation for the muscles, as it is a Healing Balm for injured or lacerated
conditions of the skin.- I can with every confidence recommend Balm to all athletes.”
ZAM-BUK BALM, the
WORLD’S GREATEST
HEALER, SPEEDILY
CURES PILES, ECZEMA,
BOILS, SORES, PIMPLES,
BLACKHEADS; SORE
LEGS, FEET, or BACKS ;
RINGWORM, BARCOO, Etc.
Of all Chemists and Stores,
or post free from the Zam-
Buk CO., 30 Pitt Street,
Sydney, for 1/6, or 3/6 special
family size, containing- nearly
four times the quantity.
sr
Business, Robbery, etc.
The law case of Potter v. the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co. is a warning to people who purchase shares
in a patentee’s rights on the strength of the supposition
■that the granting of a patent establishes, its ; validity.
Some five years ago, Charles Potter obtained a patent in
Victoria for a new process of separating metals from sul-
phide ores. A while later, the Broken Hill Proprietary
Co. adopted the Delprat process, which was a practical
improvement on Potter’s, whereupon the latter took
action to restrain the co. from infringing his patent. The
co. denied the' infringement whilst contending that
Potter’s invention was neither novel nor useful. And
now, after years of waiting for a decision,_ Potter
is informed by a learned Judge that “his discovery
ivas a new ” and novel one, and his patent, if
valid, would be a master or pioneer patent.” The
salt-cake process used by the defendant co. is actually
derived from the new discovery for which Potter was
granted a patent, but—alas! for Potter—“the patent
generally was invalid for want of utility.” In short, the
patent right granted to Potter, and for which he paid -
money to the Government, was no right at all. It was
wrong. The least thing that could be done towards
righting the patentee of an invalid patent would be to
return him his fees. The Government professes to sell to
a patentee a certain privilege that may or may not prove
valuable. The worth or worthlessness of the privilege is
the patentee’s affair. He buys it at his own risk. But if
the alleged privilege— i.e., right of monopoly—turns out
to have been a bogus concession on the Government’s
part the purchaser is in exactly the same position as a
man who buys from any other trader certain goods which
are never delivered to him. Be is entitled to a return of
the money he paid in advance, and for which he holds a
receipt.
* ■* * *
“ Jeff Burton ” : Broken Hill youngsters tire
born miners. Beaving-school they drift-into shops. Kot
for long, though, for, as soon as the age of 16 is reached
(till then they can’t be legally employed on the mines),
they answer the call of the underground. , Know of a
number of youngsters who, for play, dug a shaft some 1
‘2oft. deep, and over it rigged a windlass with bucket and
.rope. Can’t say whether they struck' it rich or not. <
“ Agricola ’’ : He 11 Philo ” (B. 31/l/’O7) and the
falling-off in the number of diamond rings found in Syd-
ney streets. The game, like all other profitable and easy
professions, became overcrowded. It reached its zenith
about four or five years ago. My best experience was on
the day when I arrived in town after a year spent beyond
the Wire Fence, and before I had time to amputate the
grass seed from my apparel. On that occasion people
seemed to have been walking down George-street spilling
diamond, emerald, and ruby rings, for no fewer than
eight were picked up before my eyes. The mode of
“finding” rarely varied. A seedy-looking bloke would
saunter past as I stared in the jewellers’ windows.
Shortly afterwards, as I was about to overtake him, he
would'stoop down and gather up a ring, worth, to all
appearance, not less than £25. “ Say, mister, that s a bit
er orlright,” be would exclaim. On my preserving a
strict air of ignorance of his proximity, he would step in
front of me, and, with an aggrieved air, remark, Did n
yer see me pick that there ring up?” I would become
wildly interested and hold forth about my own rotten
luck. Then he would ask me, as a personal favor, to
relieve him of it for a modest quid. “ For,” said he, f
the cops sees me with it, they’ll shop me, but you ve got
good clobber on.” My next move was to offer a bob and
enjoy the ensuing profanity. “ Why,” roared one of the
lucky finders in his heat, “ it cors’ more ’n” Then
he remembered himself. I regret the passing of those
folk. They greatly relieved the monotony of my annual
holiday.
* * * *
By means of his Gaming Act, Premier Bent
has pulled up with a jerk many of the cunning gamblers
amongst the wholesale and retail traders of Victoria.
The “villa raffle,” rup by a well-known furniture firm, is
a thing of the past. Even that soul-destroying thing,
the penny prize-packet of the lolly-pop shop, has to be
purchased with as much caution as the Sunday beer.
But Bent must bow down to the wily seller of sandy
sugar and dustv tea. Many Melbourne grocers are display-
ing notices to this effect“ £l5 Reward. Mr. J. G. G ,
while inspecting 10,0001 b." of India-rubber tea. lost a
valuable gold signet ring. Anyone finding and returning
same to head office will receive the above reward.”
* * * *
Korea Daily News gives this characteristic
sample of Jap methods: “During the war, upon the
authority of a certain Professor Watanabe, the world .
was informed that a gold mine of fabulous wealth had
been discovered in Japan. The mine, said to be worth
200,000,000 yen, was a myth, and an independent inves-
tigation has brought this fact to light. Professor
Watanabe now coolly declares that he made this glojving
report in compliance with the wishes of Baron Sone, at
that time Minister for Finance, and against his own
conscience, in order to assure the financial security of
Japan during the war.” 1 >
* * * *
“Tas ” : My neighbor, Jones, having success-
fully “ shot the moon ” for many years, at last missed
the radiant orb of night. In other words, he, by force of
circumstances, was obliged to abandon all his goods and
chattels (save his own skin) to the bailiff. The natural
result was an auction sale. It was duly advertised for
Friday morning. On the two preceding days two waggon-
loads of miscellaneous furniture were landed at Jones’s
last-known address. I went to the sale, but instead of
Jones’s scanty effects only being in the house, a quantity
of Chow-made rubbish and other gear had also been
nicely arranged there to look as though it had been
“ household furniture ” for years. One article in parti-
cular—a sideboard (most probably made from the timber
in which our Chow bananas arrive)—strucjt me as being
foreign to what I knew of Jones’s goods. It was cata-
loguedas:— .
“ Handgome imported Sideboard ; strong, well-built; -
made for Mr. Jones by the well-known English firm of
,on his own order.
“The above, with all other effects, will be sacrificed,
, owing to Mr- Jones giving up housekeeping.” _ ,
WOnder what Jones thought of the ad., if he ever saw it!
r »,* * 1 , *
'> “ T.11.R.”- on mines and miners : —“ Consider
the danger a miner faces in an ordinary day’s work.
When he starts to descend the mine, whether it be by
ladder, bucket, pr cage, he has to chance a sudden drop.
A rotten rung, an aged and infirm rope, or a badly-welded
hook, may scatter him to the bottom, be it near or far.
Even with the safety-cage, the wooden runners (into -
which the safety-clamps; grip when the weight is taken
off by a breakage of the rope) are often mere shells, hol-
lowed out by the dry rot which is prevalent in dry mines.
Then, when'he'starts along the level to reach the stope,
winze, or face where he is working, he passes under
timber carrying untold weight, and I have often seen
stalls which, when put in, were 6in. in diameter, rotted
away until a mere core as thick as a man’s arm was left
to hold the burden. When the face is reached, the miner
is not sure until he inspects if that a miss-hole is not
lying in ambush, like, a serpent round the corner, to
assassinate him. The deadly detonator is as tricky to
handle as a live tiger snake, and as sudden as a greased
devil. The miner must be careful not to handle bare
gelignite, for he mav rub his hands on his forehead am?
obtain a headache, the intensity of which is unknown
to ordinary people. The head appears to be lifting, and
each throb seems to be the prelude to a.
burst, and the owner of the head wishes
he were dead. Then he has to grope his way back
over dangerous passes, under bad ground, amid sicken-
ing fumes, through which the light of one candle cannot
force itself, to a miss hole, which is just about'as safe as
lighting a match in a lion’s den to look for the lion. The
smashing of a hand or breaking of an arm by a miss-
hit with a hammer are mere matters of detail, though
miners are so proficient that they very seldom maim
one another. There is also in most big mines the unbear-
able dust from machines which settles on the lungs,,
eventually causing miner’s complaint, as well as the;
general haim to the system by working in foul air. t
put in five years at the game, and can guarantee that all
of these dangers may be faced in any shift of eight hours.
Still I consider the tightest corner a man can get into is
climbing up under a choked pass, with perhaps 50 or 100
tons of .dirt above him liable to start at any moment. He
may be lucky enough to start it first try by placing a
charge of dynamite under it, lighting a good length of
fuse and escaping before the explosion ; or he may have
to board a place off for his head and start it (if it is not
too big a lot), and chance getting smothered. All for
7s. 6d. to Bs. 4d. a day.” #
N.S.W. farmers, to whom Anti-Sosh is always
appealing with straws in its hair, have another grievance
against Socialism. After a long course of swindling at
the hands of Private Enterprise, which had been selling
any smelly old thing and calling it scientific manure,
these farmers appealed to the State and got the I 1 erti-
lisers’ Act passed. Under this statute all manure must
be correctly described on the packet. Now the fanner s
grievance is this : Private Enterprise is beating him still
bv minutely describing some cheap, worthless substance
just as the law demands, and as the cocky in his darkness
doesn’t know whether chloride of slush is-what he wants
or not he buys the manure on the strength of the trade
description, and still falls in. So he wants Socialism to
go further and to indicate on the packet what ingredients
ought to-be in a properly-constituted manure.
“ Real Australian ” : ‘‘ Papuan Territory lands
are onlv to be let on lease, and not sold outright. The
PapuanLand Act offers applicants long leases on favor-
able terms as to rent and fees.” Whether good or bad
policy, this has borne fruit early. J. Kitchen & Sons,
Melbourne, soap and candle makers, are trying to buy
land at Guadalcanar, in the Solomons, on which to grow
cocoanuts for copra. The firm w r ants 4000 acres, and
says it would rather buy land in Papua, but it can t get
the fee simple. As cocoanuts live for 70 years, and take
seven years to come into full bearing, either a very long
lease or a permanent tenure of the plantation is needed.
In 1905, 198,636 cwt. of copra (the white portion of the
cocoanut dried or desiccated) was imported into Aus-
tralia from Fiji, the South Sea Islands, Papua, German
New Guinea, New Caledonia and the New Hebrides,
about 23 per cent, of the total imports coming from the
last three places. Copra is used ill making soap as it
'contains about 50 per cent. Aif Pil. - Its price has lately
risen from £9 to £2l a ton. If .the Papuan officials are
o-enuine in their desire to encourage local industries, a
Special effort should have been mjide to meet Messrs.
Kitchen & Sons regarding a reliable title to the land they
required, but Captain Barton’s policy is to discourage
white immigration. «
“ Stony ” : The seance still flourishes in Mel-
bourne. Lately, a friend of mine invited me to attend a
spirit-raising, and I went. Little Wifiie was tnere, in the
spirit, and Monsieur Pierre,- and Brother Abdul. The
medium was also responsible for the usual ghostly hand
flashing white across the darkness. .This medium was an
unclean, illiterate person, who spent most of the tune
breathing heavily through his nose. I noticed that
Little Willie had a singularly bass voice for a child, and I
am sure Monsieur Pierre must have had an English
mother. Abdul spoke the kind of broken English one
meets in the works of those story-writers who have never
heard nigger-talk except on the stage. The flashing hand
seemed to be a simple arrangement of white paper and
chemicals. After these manifestations, the plate was
passed round—with the gas turned up !-and the medium
‘ drew about'lss. for an hour’s ‘ ‘ work. It was the smallest,
poorest rag-and-tatter of an imposition that I know of,
but it was still worth 15s.
TALLYING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The warm breeze croons and whispers, and the summer
night is grand,
And the Esplanade is flooded with sweet music from a .
hand; , „
The town lights gleam inviting through a haze of ruddy
And—we' sit here checkin’ cargo in a steamer’s flare-lit
h ° l(i ’ ■ Checkin’ cargo
(Gen’ral cargo)
In a hot and stuffy hold !
For it’s tally, tally, tally till the mornin’
(God knows what marks and numbers we put down !),
While the engineers are drinking up the street, and slyly
winking
At the pretty barmaid in the Bose and Crown !
Our job is poor and thankless, and I’ve often thought it
queer
That the Fates did not invite me to become-atLengineer.
If they had, and I’d accepted—well, my day’s work would
be o’er.
As it is, I’m checkin’ cargo, but my thoughts have gone
ashore— n r - ■
Checkin’ cargo
(Gen’ral cargo), - “ •
Thinking of the girls ashore.
We must tally, tally, tally till the mornin’
(We sail at six—l go on watch at eight!).
When I get to Heaven’s wicket, must I show my master’s
ticket
To old Peter, ere 1 \ lets me through the gate ?
The ’foremast hands are driving noisy winches on the
deck,
But all time to them is. money, and it’s little that they
reck;
Their "pay-sheet keeps on swelling, so they work On,
nothing loth ;
But we mates are slaves a-toiling for the honor of the
“ cloth ”!
Cheekin’ cargo
(General cargo)
For the glory of the “ cloth ” 1
And it’s tally, tally, tally till the mornin’.
I guess the grasping owners think it prime
That we’re sitting here half-choking ’mid the greasy
flare-ups smoking,
Working out our own salvation... overtime !
The purser, dressed up finely, long ago has gone ashore—
(l have never yet discovered what they pay a purser for) —
He struts about and capers like a monkey at the Zoo,
And he says, “ You check the cargo. I have something
else to do—
Check the cargo
(Gen’ral carg-o),
Which I have no time to do.”
So it’s tally, tally, tally till the mornin’.
The sight of book and pencil makes you sick ;
Still you have to keep on plodding while you’re weary head
is nodding,
And you’re praying for the daylight to come quick !
The hatchiuan curses loudly, yells like thunder down
the hatch,
And I start—l have been dozing—and I long for watch-
and-watch.
I long to plunge for ever through the waters of the Bight
Where I’d have no checkin’ cargo, by a smoky flare-up’s
light—
Checkin cargo
(Gen’ral cargo),
By a stinking flare-up’s light.
But it’s tally, tally, tally till the mornin’.
(Yes ! sea-romance for me has lost its charm !)
For I’d like to sell my ticket and get on another wicket—
Say an able seaman’s job upon a farm !
They say our pay is handsome ; but I tell you this, my
friends: '
That the owners chuckle gaily as they hug their dividends.
They hug them tight, and tighter when we ask a wee bit
more ;
Though our lives are spent on shipboard—and we seldom
get ashore —
Checkin’ cargo
(Gen’ral cargo),
When we ought to be on shore 1
For it’s tallv, tally, tally till the mornin’.
(The sea’s a noble calling—save the mark !) |
Bards of old have sung of sailors —jack-tars, merchant-
men and whalers; . '
But they never met the sailor tally-clerk 1
N. S-. W.
ALEATROSS.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.S.W.
C/6e LEADING
HOUSE FOR.
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP.
CAN
T
B
“The Continental” D.8.8.L. Ejector Gun
12 or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke, Greener cross bolt
rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut stock, snap fore-end, engraved wpiVht
of 12-gauge, 6§ to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6J to 6£lb. w* . __ ’ b
Post Free, £.3 lOs.
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Br Ji° n i e S° a ri« k^i thiS medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Suflerers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
fffects h a f’o H W r n Sore ' iess ln the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
rhmSr comf ° rtlng ln * lla y' ng irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
! t devel 9P- Consumption has never been known to exist where - Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations • The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get if
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable 100 ||y.
NOTICE. Hearne ’ s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. it is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
ANITA 1
[Disinfecting!
Fluid.
COLORLESS, f
FRAGRANT, 1 J 1
NON»r , O9S~NOUB. Pint Bottles.
Oxidant 8 Germicide
Indispensable In all sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “ SANITAS ” Co.,
Ltd., LlmehouBe,
London.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id.
filiven
Away
For
A SQUARE PUZZLE
Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for
our picture postcards, we have devised this
simple method of advertising with the object
of making our name more widely known and
to introduce our new Catalogue, we offer
you a grand opportunity to display your in-
genuity, and receive the generous reward of a
Silver Watch (Ladies or Gents) or any articles
picked from our catalogue to the value of £i
for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an im-
pression on your mind that you will
, . , be compelled to talk about us to your
satisfied “•?>lnmi, he w abt ! Ut extraordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well
we hrm* h?WMtiV L tAe bes * and mo * t effective advertisement that can be secured. By this plan, therefore,
• y n-'icase the number of our customers without addin £ to our exoenses bv awarding as
prizes many thousand pounds worth of Watches which would otherwise
5
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO,
Heic is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows
nine squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place
a number on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a
straight line in as many ways as possible; no two squares may contain the same
figure. Our decision is to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, men-
tiou whether you would like Ladys or Gents Prize, This is an honest offer made by a responsible firm
1 lie instance you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal op-
portunity for winning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainw'ork for solid cash
. .. With 7 ou }' solution of this P uzzle send postal note for 3/- for which we will send you six dozen
of the most artistic penny picture postcards you have ever seen. Everybody wants picture postcards and if
you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances
who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of, ithus you get double the value
tor the money you send with an excellent chance of twinning a Solid Silver Watch
Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 35., and a stamped addressed envelope so that
we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, stale whether Mr., Mrs, or Miss, and address
your letters very plainly to '
ELUSDON & CO., Angel Place, 5 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” «Of,» EJVAMEI. (Washable) —Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas-Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOUIIV EVAMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant White and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
“SAPOUIN” BATH TUB EIVAMEU. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN " FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN" ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
&/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
SULPHUR
31T TE RS
Ladies:—
The Secret
Of a
Fair Face
Is a
Beautiful
Skin.
Sulphur. Bitters
Will give you
A lovely
Complexion*
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREEH
You can become a Hypnotist hi a y ou ° can
time without leaving your home.
ids of others, control tntntoW
sway the minds
disease and bad
lesson or Key to Hypnotism which
free of charge and postage paid, will« )
allabout this marvelous science. 11“ „
beautiful and artistic ana
you just what Hypnotism is alio
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Kemember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also iliclude a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifetime.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADEN, ay Pitt St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
Price 2ts. Thr Bulletin Office, Sjcnej


r
vs.
v£.\.
st
V '
Is undoubtedly the most valued ever compounded for external applicat liniment Qn the
most reasonable and scient.fic of modern medicines. It * totally mne It will penetrate to
market, and contains rare products no p ® / . |IK i pains It is an antiseptic and germicide of the
your very bones, soothe, soften, and Sllbdl in f e^on avo i,as the danger of blood poisoning or
fewTla .I!'23S£«e: q**<*iy ~ «■ ” d h “ ,s llte a
without ’inflammation.
FOR, —
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Cuts
Sprains
Bruises
AMD ALLKINDSOF
Inflammation.
'4£S*»r"
—Prepared Bt-
Sheldon DwucC?
Boston, U.s.A.
Sydney, NSW.
DR. SHELDON’S
Magnetic Liniment
It will lieal any and every Sore.
It takes the pain from a Burn or B *‘“ l ®** .
It destroys the poison from Stings of Insect*.
It instantly relieves Itching,
It cures Rheumatism.
It allays all Inflammation.
!', .nd T.oth.ch.,
It checks Bleeding of the Nose.
It take* the soreness out of Tired reet. exercise
It strengthens the Muscular Tissues, after hard exercise.
It quickly cures Sore Throat, Quinsy, &c.
It heals Cuts and Lacerations.
It invigorates in Old Age.
It immediately stops Neuralgia.
It will cure the most painful Corn.
It allays Irritations of all kinds.
It destroys all Skin Diseases. ...
It is a positive and speedy cure for Lumbago.
It is a most effective remedy for Chilblains.
It instantly relieves Sprains.
It affords prompt relief for Scalds.
It is the best remed.y for La.mtnejsa.
It heals running Sor es.
It will loosen a St ff JSeclk.
DR. SHELDON’S
Magnetic Liniment
■" ta “ iSsS=S®fff
Muscular Rheumatism, Sore Muscles, Sore Joints and Neu-
ralgia. It is the only external remedy that will penetrate
directly to the seat of pain, and draw out all inflammation.
«-~ drug co.
PRIGE
1/6 AND 3/'
PRICE
1/6 AND. 31-
DURESS KIDNEY DISEASE
From Mr. Thomas H. Roach, 24 Margaret-street, Enmore, Sydney, N.S.W in A
“ About seven years ago my little daughter, now ten very welk, and some
very severe form. She recovered from the fever, but h anc j dropsv. Her appetite at first
years later she began to suffer from Bright ®Dueu» °f the ®nd her face became pallid. We were
became very capricious, then her body and head began t a U thorough examination, pronounced her
alarmed by her condition, especially when the doctor, af. was taken the hospital, wheie her disease
to be suffering from Bright s Disease m a bad form. nothing for her. Her
was pronounced by the doctor to be quiteimcurabl>, and that meang of alleviating her
urine, by analysis, showed much albumen. We t:r - e< ? ® f J ? to her dying and to be able to
sufferings without result. It was an awfui and anxious t W arner’s Safe Cure, having heard
do nothing to help her. As a hist resource we decide g ed the reports to be correct, for
such good reports of the efficacy of that medic . medicine was doing her good. We per-
after she had taken one bottle we were dehghted to find h med . Every week showed great
severed with the medicine, and she contininid to gro lbumen i n her urine was decreasing. We
improvement. Repeated tests proved that the quantity aU nd se diment had disappeared.
JKiSa her health and strength, and looks
more robust than any member of the family.
From Miss M Cornish, Storekeeper, 352 High-street, Bendigo, Vic., 24th August, 1905.
‘For many years past I had been gH"
(fiironic tvvo times^ach
week. Doctors’ medicines did me no good so I started to try me e to men d, until all pain
- in tL At of health.”
From Miss Elizabeth Newbery, Bangor, S.A., 3rd August, 1905.
-In hope that others may benefit by-y s^^
has done for me in saving inv life. In 3c 01, , became so ill that I had to be removed to the
home. I did not take much notice of 1 Vil.Wl last had to confess that they could do
hospital. For ten d w e eks }wo doctors att \\ t tQ home to my parents. They fully expected
nothing for me, and that the best tmng , ~ , home. Before leaving, a minister ad-
that I should die, and I thought the sam . t j us knowledge, had been cured by that
vised me to try Warner’s Safe Cure, .fW that a like Rno g y , a and everyone
medicine. For seven months, after a g difficn’ltv : n breathing that a rope had to be passed
thought that I should die Often 1 , h * d ffbTtlfat so that "didst holding on, I could get my
through a beam in the roof and Iha ‘ red f or t y .f ou ’ r (44) inches round the waist. I then pro-
breath. At one period of my ill lies ,• •*. dld n ,e a little good, I continued to take it,
cured a bottle of Earners Safe Cmp, d d f Qok thirte( & bottles of the medicine (with the pills),
taking also Warners Safe Bills. A g , r and have en j oye d better health than ever
Warner s K> 5 undoubtedly saved my life after the doctors said that I was incurable.”
From Mr J W. Jackson, Storekeeper, 87 Inkerman-street, St. Hilda, Vic., 25th January, 1906.
«‘Bnr a number of years I suffered from disease of the kidneys, which gradually undermined my
. UVI Fo A “the dTsease Advanced I became weaker. I lost all appetite and experienced extreme
health. As tne disease au • , - which increased day by day, unfitting me for
wakefulness and nervousness. IM le .
SrSld wi sin onceTgSn in the enjoyment of good health and strength.”
A treatise containing many similar letters and an explanation why
Warner’s Safe Cure
/.nt-fuQ kidnev and liver diseases and the effects of those diseases, such as Rheumatism, GouC Neu-
Branch, Melbourne.
Stars.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
J GAZED into the eyes of lovely Mabel
(They were shining with a most attractive
gieam),
. B dl looked as ‘ ‘romanesque as I was able
"While I murmured, “ I’m a poet; choose a
theme! .
r am tired of writing prose on subjects silly ;
1 lam sick of making money, scribbling pars,
v aid she whispered, in a voice subdued and thnlly,
' ‘ ‘ Write a poem, if you please, about the Stars !
So I turned
Up my eyes,
And I yearned
To the skies —
* ‘ There are Stars on Heaven’s floor which smile
divinely
On lovers while they walk beneath the trees ;
Cupid’s little games they wink benignly,
They’ve watched them for so many centuries .
Jf*rom primal spooning days of Eve and Adam,
To murmurings on modern motor-cars,
they’ve always kept your secret when you bade
,em ’ • „
Those wise, discreet, and prudent little Stars!
Then I gazed
On her hair
Where there blazed
Something rare—
» * There are Stars whose little jewels gleam and
quiver,
Pearl, turquoise, ruby, amethyst galore !
Their price makes impecunious lovers shiver,
But they’re just the sort of Stars the girls adore !
IToinance is very pleasant and alluring,
But it perishes like smoke from our cigars,
solid money’s-worth is more enduring ;
You can always catch a girl with diamond
Stars !”
Poet’s rage
Higher ran
To the Stage
And a Man —
“There are Stars with Lovely Legs and ringing
Voices,
Who strut upon the boards with noble mien ;
"The stage-struck Maiden’s simple heart rejoices
Tostethem stalk in grandeur through thescene !
They have pockets full of cuttings from the papers
(But none of those which gave them nasty jars),
And they cut the most fantastic, giddy capers,
The strutting, stamping, spouting stagey Stars!”
Things like these
*#* # *
In a book
What a tease
Do they look !
‘There are Stars in naughty novels scattered
thickly,
And naughty poets use them often, too ;
When the hero’s making pace—well, rather
quickly,
Those asterisks come always into view.
For half-a-page the story madly rushes ;
It scorches, bending o’er its handle-bars ;
And they just arrive in time to spare your blushes,
Those modest, mute, but most suggestive Stars!”
VIC.
LAM.
Twenty Drops.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was hot with the moist, steaming heat
of the tropic islands. The mist rose blue
and foetid from the swamp in the distance,
and the river curled lazily by, glassy smooth.
Spearman leaned out of the overhanging win-
dow and listened. From up stream came the
“strum-strum” of a banjo drowsily soothing.
Someone was singing in a clear high tenor, and
Spearman listened approvingly. Perhaps it was
the hot breathlessness of the day, or perhaps it
was the lilt of the love song stealing down the
rher. Something set him thinking of another
river and another day-—the one on which he left
Brisbane. That had also been a clear, scorching
summer-time, with a great sun reflected in the
green water and the blue. And then his thoughts
went further back, till there rose up before him
the picture of a woman, tall and straight, with
eyes that were greenish and hard as jade glitter-
ing under her copper hair. He had left Brisbane
by reason of the woman with the greenish eyes
and the burnished hair, and he was engaged to
another girl now, and he ought to be happy as
happy as any man could be among these swamps
and beside that river.
Over the many odors from the surgery rose an
unmistakable scent, good, yet crude. The cop-
pery woman in Queensland would never have
used such a perfume, and he waited
hearing the irritating “ pad, pad ” of rubber heels
on the stained flooring.
“Why, Nan, what brings you here ! ” he said.
“You’re not cross, Artie?” said the girl.
“Why should I be?” But for all his care
there was a shade of annoyance in the man’s tone.
“ ]\ly coming, you know —it s not, not quite
proper,” and the girl’s mouth turned down primly
enough.
Born and bred in a Bohemian atmosphere, the
man understood nothing of the ridiculous conven-
tions of such a world as hers. He could have
shaken her for her prudishness, but then he was
irritated that morning. In the melodramas the
heroes never think of the red-headed sirens they
have loved and left—at least they never look back
at them when they are with the pretty heroine ;
but Spearman broke the rules of melodrama along
with those of convention. Even as he kissed the
girl’s pale, soft lips the jade-green eyes seemed to
laugh at him, and the scarlet mouth to mock him.
He let his arms fall limply to his sides, and stood
silent for a moment or so. He did not feel par-
ticularly pleased with the girl’s visit. He almost
wished that she would go away and leave him.
And vet she was pretty, and she was the girl he
had chosen for his wife.
She seemed satisfied with her welcome, how-
ever, and he shook up the cushions on the rattan
lounge for her. She leaned back among them
with a little tired movement which made the man
wince in sudden shame. It was her P ret D „ .
cate ways which had attracted him from, the first.
“ Were you very fagged last night ? he said.
“I thought you would dance the soles oft your
shoes! i
“ I feel tired and—and queer,” she answered.
“ Artie, I don’t want to worry mother—that was
why I came to see you by myself. She doesn t
know. I’ve been feeling so tired and heavy this
last week or so. Last night I felt quite well, but
I’m paying for my dance to-day. Artie, I can
understand it. I’ve got four big marks on my
back, just below the shoulder-blades. I saw them
to-day in the bathroom mirror. Iheyre' ail
swollen and purple. I’ve never seen anyt mg
like them before.” , ,
She was nearly crying. He could tell th y
the shaking of her voice. And somehow he felt
a little afraid himself. , . , , „
He took her arm gently enough and led fi< r
over to the window. The light fell full on the
pretty dark face with its saucy tip-tilted nose am
its large black eyes soft as sloes.
But there were dark shadows under the eyes,
and the skin looked a little drawn and hot.
“This climate isn’t suiting you, said Spear-
man. “ I knew you were too delicate for it the
first time I saw you. It was that which first
made me notice you.” .....
It pleased him when she showed a little
coquetry. “What a compliment! she pouted,
and the soft black eyes even sparkled tor a
“ What do these marks feel like?” he asked.
“ I don’t know what they are. They seem so
queer, and dry, and ugly.”
“Best take off your bodice and let me see
them.” .
“Oh, but” She hesitated. .
“Look here,” said Spearman, impatiently,
“just forget for a bit that we’re going to be
married, and remember that I'm y° ul N“Octor.
Take off your bodice, please. I’ll call old Chang
Lai up for propriety, if you like. He laughed
as she commenced to obey. Chang Lai was the
Chinese cook. , , ■ a «•
The bodice hooks got entangled in the fluffy
furbelows of the chemise. He came to help her,
and he saw that a scarlet flush spread hotly down
over face and breast as his clumsy fingers, in
loosing the hooks, unfastened the chemise and
bared the girlish breast to the top of the low cor-
sets. It struck him then that the copper-haired
woman in Queensland would probably give some-
thing to raise a color like this. His fingers were
very gentle as he disentangled the delicate laces,
and his voice was very land when he spoke.
“ I’m sorry, Nance, but you never know what s
going to attack you next in these places. <J ust a
little more to the light, please.”
What pretty dimples she had. He touched her
shoulder softly. “The flesh might, be firmer,
was the thought of the doctor. It s a beautiful
color and well-moulded,” was that of the man.
He slid the frilled lacy mass down further and
then ! His fingers gripped her arm with all
their high-strung nervous force, and he swung her
clean into the glare of the sunshine. Unsatisfied
still, he jerked the blind down with a run to
soften the dazzle.
Four marks, dry and scurfy, with a livid purple
ring about each. Abvays it seemed to him after
that he saw those marks—saw the white, thicken-
ing scale of the skin and the spreading purple dis-
coloration. He knew the disease at once. It
was the dread of Asia leprosy.
Faintlv in many parts, on the round arm and
the white soft neck, he now recognised the
spreading taint. A little cry of pain that seemed
wrung from her roused him. He let go her arm
and lifted his hand from her shoulder It left a
bruised, discolored impression on the skin.
He forced himself to speak. “ Nothing much-
just a slight skin disturbance,’ he said. ill
make you up a mixture at once* and he had
locked himself in the surgery before he com-
pleted the half of his lie.
He stood there in the middle of the small room,
helpless, his hands loose at his sides, while his
thoughts raced on. It was a week since the
steamer had called for its load. It would be seven
weeks before it returned—seven helpless weeks !
The disease was incurable. Spearman knew
this. He knew that, even though it were
not so, suspicion must be aroused before the
steamer could return. The trouble had gone so
far that he wondered he had never observed the
signs. He could not think of Nan in that hell
down by the bay. Yet rumor said that one terror
there was a white girl, who had also been young
and beautiful—seven years ago.
Seven weeks —seven years there were seven
days in a week—seven times seven. Purposeless
calculations ran dizzily through his brain.
He walked restlessly about the tables, shifting
this bottle or that. At last, almost mechanically,
he went to the far shelf and reached down a
bottle, fitted a cork to it carefully, and picked up
a reddish-colored jar with the poison label on it.
As he withdrew the stopper a sickly odor
emanated from it. Twenty should be sufficient
His hand was quite steady as the stuff dripped
heavily. Three—five—better so, far better—nine
there was no other doctor on the island —twelve
—better so The two words seemed to remain in
his mind. Dully he repeated them. Seventeen
—eighteen—nineteen. His hand was shaking
now. Twenty. That was enough. He stoppered
the jar, carefully returning it to its old place on
the shelf. Then he pulled himself together.
He could hear Nan walking about the other
room. Once she had tried the locked door. She
was there again. “Artie”—she rattled the
handle nervously—“are you ill?
“No! It’s all right. I’m coming now. He
thought it strange that his voice should sound so
° r< ?‘ | can’t do up my bodice and I believe some
one is coming.” , . , ,
Spearman unlocked the door slowly and came
out speaking quickly and nervously.
“An experiment I’m watching the combina-
tion" of two chemicals—nearly an explosion,” he
muttered as he blundered amongst the laces.
“ It’s all right now. No, there’s nothing to see.
He took one more look at the leprous marks and
knew that he was right.
Old Chang Lai shuffled in with a tray of tea
and cakes. * 4 Saw lady lookee out window, he
remarked laconically as he put the tray down and
left.
Spearman could have throttled him. He must
pour out tea, and eat cakes, and talk, while all the
time he wanted to be alone and to know that the
thing he had done was irrevocable. Now there
was time to get the bottle back. A dozen times
he moved his hand towards the thing and furtive y
drew it back again.
At last she unrolled her gloves and pulled them
on, holding out her arms with a pretty coquetry,
for him to button them. He found himself
hurrying through the task, with face averted from
her breath.
He forced himself to kiss her with a new
warmth and walked with his arm about her
Sits £tS3& he l
something about the glorious da-y. • . .
At the gate he discovered that m his anxiety to
show hifi unconcern he had over-acted his part
The bottle had been left behind. He could not
trust himself to fetch it, was death he
held in his hand. He sent Chang Lai. lhe oia
man brought it out to him leisurely enough, but
Spearman*took it from him almost
pushed it into the girl’s hand, lhe Chinaman
looked from one face to the other and shuffled off
a kiss. He brushed it with closed , he !",„
bye, dear, I shall see you soon, and tne ga
S "rhe banjo notes still came to his ears, famt
and tinny and tinkling. I They. *rntgeclJ™*> ;
The only thing that seemed clear \ jj e
he had done. Well, what else could he d .
footed at the curling mists on the mmj a*»d the
hot, slinking river, and asked the questio f
lessly.
LILLIAS GORDON.


A WORD TO WOMEN
ABOUT
Backache
They Cure Backache, Weak Back, Rheumatism!
Diabetes, Congestion of the Kidneys, Inflamma-
tion of the Bladder, Gravel, Bright’s Disease]
Dropsy, and all Urinary Disorders. '
£:■
m
Tr~'
n
u Every
Picture tells
a Story."
Are You Nervous and Irritable P
Are Yqu Run-Down or Rheumatic?
Kidney Trouble Affects the Whole System.
, Women who . suffer from pain or dull ache in the back,
loins, or sides, from dizzy spells, rheumatic twinges, urinary
troubles, gravel, sciatica, flatulence, headaches, who can’t stoop,
can’t eat, can’t sleep, are recommended to try Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills; for Doan’s Pills help the kidneys to purify the
blood and drive out the poisons that cause fatal kidney com-
plaints, such as dropsy, Bright’s disease, and diabetes.
Doan’s Pills have been in use for the past 75 years ; they
help the kidneys in their great blood-filtering work, and give
toge to the whole kidney organism. Some of our neighbors—
Sydney women—tell here how lasting their cures have proved.
Sydney Women Cured.
CITY.
Mrs. Hannah Davis, 97 Sydney, says:—“l used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for aches and pains in the limbs, which I fancied
were caused by kidney trouble. The pains had troubled me for years defying all
treatment. I found it very difficult to get up and down stairs, and fits of giddi-
ness which often came over me, made it more distressing. In fact the giddiness
made ,me afraid of the stairs. Sometimes I would be laid up. Soon after I
started using Doan s Pills relief came, and when I had taken six boxes the aches
and pains and giddiness had disappeared. You can make what use you like of
this, for I want all sufferers to know of this excellent remedy.”
Three years later, when asked about her cure, Mrs. Davis says : —“ Yes, I
am still quite well, none of the distressing symptoms mentioned above have ever
returned. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills did their work well in my case.”
REDFERN.
Mrs. C. I. Hunt, Music Teacher, 9 Edward-street, Redfern, says:—“For
years I have been using one remedy after another, trying to get relief from aching
pains in my back ; these pains were very trying. I could not move without getting
a severe twinge, and at night my rest was broken. A friend recommended
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it was good advice, for I got relief after a few
doses, and one box completely banished the pain. I did not write sooner, as I
wished to test my cure, and five years have pasted and I am still quite free of
the pain, so am perfectly cured.”
Be Sure you get the Genuine
DOAN’S like your Neighbor had.
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes, 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BUT BE SURE THEY ARE DOAN’S.
The Gathering of the Brown-
Eyed.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T HUE Brown Eyes came from Asia, where all
I mystery is true,
Ere the masters of Soul Secrets dreamed of
hazel, grey, and blue ;
And the Brown Eyes came to Egypt, which is
called the gypsies’ home,
And the Brown Eyes went from Egypt and
Jerusalem to Rome.
There was strife amongst the.Brdwn Eyes for the
false things andi the true
There was war amongst the Brown Eyes for the
old gods and the new ;
But the old gods live for ever, and their goddesses
are bright
fn the temples of Old Passions with the Brown.
Eyes of the White.
The Brown Eyes east, by Africa, they saw and
conquered Spain,
And the Brown Eyes marched as Christians till a
Brown Eye met a Dane.
Ihe Dane had Brown-Eyed children who in blue
eyes took delight— - , .
And a son of blue-eyed sailors, brown-eyed, reads
the stars to-night.
Oh, Knowledge from Old Deserts, where the
great stars rocked the world ! ■
Oh, courage from grim seaboards, where the
Viking ships were hurled !
The clear skin of the Norseman, and the desert
strength and sight,
The power to fathom mankind, and the glorious
gift to write ! ■ ■ ■ -
We can look in souls of women, aye ! and let them
know we do;
We can fix the false eyes earthward ;\ve can meet
and match the true ;
We can startle Voice from Silence; and from
Darkness flash the Light—
And the eyes to fathom Asia are the Brown Eves
of the White.
There’s a legend in the nations that all Brown
Eyes once were true.
But were taught in love and warfare by the sinful
shades of blue;
There’s a story amongst sinners that all Brown
Eyes once were kind,
Till the Steel-Blue struck the Red-Fire in a hatred
that was blind.
But the Brbwn Eyes are the saddest at the death
of Love and Truth,
And the Brown Eyes are the grandest and the
dreamiest, of Youth..
They have risen in rebellion unto leadership
sublime—
And the grey-eyed queens of women loved, and
love them for all time !
Brown Eves never married Brown Eyes but
unhappiness held sway,
For the, real mates of the Brown Eyes have for
ever been the grey.
But though Brown Eyes quarrel hotly, though
their very souls be wrenched,
Never Blue-Eye wronged a Brown-Eye but the
Brown-Eye was avenged !
Through the.breadth of wide Australia, waiting
desert-like and vast,
We have sent our Brown-Eyed children, who are
multiplying fast.
Patriots, pioture-writers, sages, fill the Brown-
Lyod’ rolls to-night—
’Tis the gathering from all ages of the Brown-
Eyed of the White.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Invaders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BANZAI ! I praise, the matchless souls
of our Ancestors ; I praise the well-known
virtue and wisdom of our Mikado. Upon
the third day of the Moon of Cherry-blossoms
long ago, was the Empire of Nippon won. Gather!
my little yellow and pied and ring-straked grand-
children—gather at the knee of old Skito, and he
will tell you of the taking of this so magnificent
country from the effete White.
We came down upon this town, which the
white men called Sydney—and which lam not
going to break my old teeth trying to pronounce—
in two old warships. They thought we should
run the forts at the harbor entrance, but we
were not fools, so we landed at Botany Bay and
came up in the tram to the city. The fare was
excessive—nearly a quarter of a dollar. But
what did we sons of Nippon care ? Were we not
about to conquer this fair land ?
The barbarians fought well, but what could
they hope from an affair in which one army was
weH-armed and disciplined and the other was
omcered by incompetence and armed by antiq uit v 9
We scattered them as the wind scatters the down
of the thistle. By nightfall the progressive North
had driven the slothful South out of its city, and
our little brown officers were chatting together in
the streets of Sydney, as their men pillaged the
houses. Our brave General, Tamarnma, a very
tall man of at least five feet, was sitting on the
steps of a newspaper office which they called the
D ai l y Telegrapii, while within the editor was
hurriedly changing his presumptuous views on
the brotherhood ot all mankind. Our gallant lads
had cut off his beard, and were now demonstrat-
mg to him the pretty art of bastinado. For in
spite of the friendly tone of his newspaper’ he
was suspected of harboring the preposterous idea
of the superiority of the White Men. Indeed
when, ton years before, Tamarama was disguised
as a cook in Sydney, he had heard this villain say
that he would not feel honored in havinsr a
Japanese son-in-law.
Two subalterns rode up through the dusk to
their general, saluted, and prodded forward with
their swords a bedraggled man in torn broadcloth
The captive was stout, stout as Fraschimo the
Uaimio; he wore the remains of a tall black silk
hat with a jaunty air which betokened rank
among the barbarians.
“ Excellency,” said the yellower of the two sub-
alterns, “this has volunteered to guide us to the
haunt of the Devils. You have seen a red paper
ni the, hands of many of the dead white men.
This paper seems to have some power to make
them fight very fiercely, and is published by Devils
with red-hot livers. Until we kill these we
cannot hope to have any peace within the city.
And this man will guide us.
“ Thy name, fat one ? ” said Tamarama.
“And I,” moaned the prisoner, “came down
to meet you at Botany with an illuminated
address. I always lauded your clemency and
politeness, and I was ever consistent in advocacy
of your claims to overrun Australia. This is the
reward ! ”
The General deigned to be pleasant with the
prisoner. “My dear fellow,” he said, “you seem
to have misunderstood us. We have no more
respect for a man because he fawns upon us, his
country’s enemies. And we are polite only to
those who can kick us for insolence. This being
so, you will see that it is now your part to be
polite. So far, we have overrun- Australia with-
out your aid. But, if you are sincere in your
desire to help us, you will guide us to The Bul-
letin office. If not, say so frankly, and my
playful fellows will be delighted to show you our
new bayonet drill. You will find it very interest-
mg.”
■ “Banzai!” cried the guard,
a n ’ y° ur name • ” commanded the Genei al.
“ Smith, your Magnificence,” was the answer
‘“John ?”
“Bruce.”
“ There are too manv Smiths. Do you use a
hyphen ?”
“I do.’-’
“ Well; we are ready to follow you,”
So we set out. Oh, yes ; old Skito was there.
We pushed Smith in front until we came to a
bird and monkey shop, on the right flank of the
position which the Devils had entrenched. I
myself saw one of them, 1 a great shaggy Devil
18ft. high, named' “Hop.” This “Hop” was
waiting, pencil upraised. He was a strong and
merciless fiend. “Beware ! ” cried the sorrowful
Smith. “He will caricature even the King, or
Dowie, or The Almighty. Beware lest he turn
his pencil upon you, Tamarama.”
“ I will walk behind an umbrella,” said the
General.
We sent forward a herald, and one of the
Devils, named “Sub-editor,” slew him with a blast
of fire which they called an “ Answer to Corres-
pondents.” It was very terrible to see the man
shrivel up. Did old Skito wait ? Do you see any
green in old Skito’s eye ? I made for the monkey-
shop. All of us took cover in the houses opposite
but not before the fierce “Hop” had drawn
seven of us. These seven died in great agony.
The chief of the Devils came out upon the roof,
and he was dreadful, with great tusks seven inches
long, and one eye in the middle of his forehead.
He was named “Editor,” and he was the father of
all the rest. Flames spouted from his mouth, and
m his claws he carried a bundle of curses called
“ Plain English,” which Smith said were very
terrible, and bad slain a great chief named Reid.
A light battalion of smaller Devils named “Bards”
fired off curses at any head which showed at the
windows. One named Randolph slew the adju-
tant with a pentameter. lie laid a whole com-
pany of the Chinese auxiliaries low. “Ye queri-
monious and pre-adamite obscenities ! ” he roared
m a voice like a bull’s. “ Back to your jaundered
and pavonian carbuncles ! A’Bedford 1 A’Bed-
ford ! Shard their Elytrons.” This was a topside
curse. Old Skito trembled, one time.
One of the younger Devils, “The Little Boy
from Manly,” was killed, and the other little one,
called the “Printer’s Devil,”a very black one, was
caught alive and washed. This killed him too.
Three of the bigger ones—named Lindsay, “ The
Prooshan,” and “Akenehi,” a female Devil—had
their tails shot off, and the terrible “Hop” lost
a claw.
The “ Aboriginalities”-were all killed, and the
“Leading Articles” shot into ribbons. The Devils
then knew that they had no hope. So they fired
the office. And, in the midst of the fire, I, Skito,
saw them plainly as they rose in the flames above
the city, and turned into clouds. And now some-
times you hear them, my children, roaring in the
sky. Sometimes a flash of lightning terrifies you.
That is the Father of the Devils throwing down a
“Plain English,” and when this thing hits a poor
Japanese, it shrivels him up. But, if you grow
up good, and love the Mikado, these Devils can
never hurt you.
See that man over there carrying the heavy
goat-skin of water? That is.the very Smith I
told you about. He was the only white man who
loved us sufficiently to stay with us in the
country we took from his friends. The women
stayed, though ; they had to. Old Skito has
seen better water-carriers. Go and throw stones
at him, children, and let your grandfather sleep.
Sayouara ! Nippon ! Banzai!
HOWARD ASHTON.
McPherson and Providence—
Especially McPherson.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McPHERSON Had the top of a black
stocking about the crown of his much-
damaged, brown felt hat. Mac was
in mourning. He had sauntered up to Mrs.
Kelly’s milking yard, and with his back to the
fence took a leisurely survey of the selection,
nibbling at the white end of a long blade of spear-
grass the while.
Mrs. Kelly came out to shoo the chickens, and
she discovered him there, and saw the calculation
in his grey eye.
“Good afther, Mr. McPherson,” said Mrs.
Kelly. “ It’s a fine day, I don’ know.”
“Ah, it’s a weeleno’day, Misthress Kelly ’n’
how’s yersein ”, said Mac. .“I thought fna’be
I’d call ta express ma sorrow wi’ ye, Misthress
Kelly.”
Mrs. Kelly raised her apron-tip to her eyes, and
wiped away a mythical teiir. “ Thrue fer ye, Mr.
Mac, ’tis th’ black sorra. And me hear-rt near
bruckt hear iv yer own throuble, Mr. McPherson,
sir. ’Tis bad luck fer you t’ lose your wife ’n’ me
t lose me pore husband, I don’ know.”
McPherson sniffed, dabbed his eyes twice with
a bundle kerchief, and was a man again. “ Mus-
teenous ’re th’ workin’s, Misthress Kelly.”
McPherson took another look over the stony land,
and at the skeleton fruit trees in the orchard’
“Your gude man died o’ th’ Thir-rsday, and my
gude wife o’ th’ Friday, Misthress Kelly, V if
twas na that ye ha’ sic a poor place here, I wad be
believin’ that Providence meant somethin’ bv it
Aye, I wad that.”
And then McPherson turned on his heel and
walked home.
EDYSON.


is the strong and convincing testimonial of a
/ady residing at Balmain, N. S. W., whose portrait
also given
4 ‘ Some time ago I was taken
very ill, losing my appetite,
could not sleep, and was unable
to do my work. I was attended
by two doctors, but to no effect.
I became very thin and weak.
Sometimes when I was out X
would become so ill I would have
to go into a neighbor’s house
until I was fit to walk again. I
cannot describe my sufferings,
only to say that this state of
things lasted for months.
“At last I remembered your advertisements in the
papers, so determined to try a bottle of Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. Finding the first so beneficial, I took another, and
still another, and the three bottles completely put me
to rights.
“I am now perfectly healthy and strong, and can eat
and sleep, and work like a Trojan.”
All Sarsaparillas are not alike. There are many
put up in imitation of Ayer’s. Avoid them. Be sure
that you get
AYER’S S arsaparilla
and then you will not suffer disappointment.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER & CO., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Pills act on the liver; they cure biliousness.
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 1 0
*! our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at Gd. per packet. When you
e sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
four cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
vant to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
"<e all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
i the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we
’ ~ " . the first in vour district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
with any other firm,
could not make you
F
R
E
K
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
THESE ARE TWO RINGS THAT
WE FIND EXTREMELY POPULAR.
9ct. Gold, 15s. f
tSct. Gold, 2 Os.;
18ct. Gold, 275. 6d.
Very Heavy Ring
Snake Pattern, with two
Diamond eyes and Sap-
phi re or Ruby set in head.
9c t. Gold, 355. ;
15ct. Gold, 425. ;
18ct. Gold, 50s.
Many other rings—in varied designs
and at prices to suit all pockets are illus-
trated and fully described in our big
catalogue. Please write for a free copy.
“The store where quality counts”
excels in rings, and as they are all made
in our own workshops, we save you the
custom’s duty.
We pay the postage to any address, and
if on receipt of the parcel you are in any
way dissatisfied with your purchase you
can immediately return the article and we
will cheerfully refund the amount paid.
ANGUS & COOTE,
George Street, 00 Arcade, yal Sydney*
Opposite Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is,
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 m G.P.0., SYDNEY .
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingf & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION: Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing’ sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple lor all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYJDZCJjEY. •
Handy to have in the House.
A box of BEECHAM'S PILLS is a handy thing to have in
the house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need much
illness will be saved.
Any trouble arising from derangement of the digestive
organs is quickly set right by
'ffieechamX @Uti.
This unrivalled medicine will do more to build up robust
health and maintain it than any other remedy.
They are unequalled tor
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEAPACHE,
INDIGESTION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR FEMALES OF ALL AGES.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price llli ted pills) A 219 1168 pills).
sf'"
SJS
fsv
l«r>
§3SS£§
m
§2
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
„ y GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
fi Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free o* charge, to any-
“AddVSssA*. MINER, G.P.O., SYDNEY.
HERE’S A NEW KELP
lor the cars—a greater help than
has been before invented
- THE ELEGTRJCON.
1 1t does what all other devices have’
been trying to do. It does more. It
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERNON COY,,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney.
r i
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name
IftiDY
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
m
ik
mm
■:'v
a
wm
I Us
I/oM—
S:
m
mi
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s' improved high grade ELECTRIC
belts FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BiLT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
nev, Livei, and St imach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If von are weak in anyway
delav no longer but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr.J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says:
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”


Use Your
Hose —Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
Sena for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation q;ood.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
cumig diseases and bad habits of every nature.
Ihe acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
tor making money.
„m, interested, write for the book entitled,
Ihe Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Persona] Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Price 6d.
Posted 8d
If
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER BIDE Valve nmi i » „ '
Mines „ Sun,™* Weight ebnut *dKSV.S” "tS’cScSS
ot air per minute. Only ONE WORKINC PART-Strlotly ONE MAN Roek Drllte
solvents: W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 *-* t JLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Sol
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
Cocoa Handle //
Buffalo Handle • 2/ «
Stag Handle - - - 216
Lockwood Bros., Ltd!
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
.
POCKET
KNitfES
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, LTD.,
MINING ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A LARGE STOCK OF
EATON, COLE & BURNHAM VALVES,
Globe Valves, Gate Valves, Check Valves,
Foot Valves, Butterfly Valves—Brass and Iron.
Pri °° Liets on “PPHoation. Please write to above address.
R. L. SCRUTTON & GO
Ltd.
1
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings,
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c,
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES anti FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc., etc.
Lathes
Drilling- Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bolts, Rivets
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining Steel.
Motor Car
Tyresje?
“LE PERSAN
Made by TH£
Silvertouin Rubber (Jo.
•■arge Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
The Improved
CARD ORE
CONCENTRATOR.
NEW PATENTS.
Self-Lubricating Head motion,
giving greater differentia/
movement.
Seif-Lubricating Track Rods.
Progressively Sizing Pulp
Feeder.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS!
N. GUTHRIDGE, L™
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
THE TWO-PLANE
ADJUSTABLE DECK
Is the Greatest
Discovery ofthe
last 20 years
made in the
Concentrating:
Art
