

IDEW-A-IVS Tina WHISKY
B.
Mining
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOE— i a „ , ,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Columbus Portable Oil Engine.
HOBART;
PIONEER
HEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J. C.Ludowicl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
COLUMBUS OIL ENGINES
Are Specially Adapted to
the Requirements of
■AUIVa pun lAIUVJ ‘NOIJ.VJ.S
for Illustrated! Descriptive
to SOLE AGENTS
&
■mum
\
" Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
sdfs
sdf
CHUBB’S
STRONG ROOM
s
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch
14 Spring Si., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). GIBB, Manager.
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
u
i
sfd
SILVERTOWN,
ESSEX, ENGLAND.
Send Your Enquiries and
to —
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.,
Telephone Nos. 882, 2435.
279 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
“LYSAOHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSACHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 FITT STREET, SYD3STET.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIAf
BLNSDORPS
sdf
El
sdf
EASTWATS
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ft
vi.
ft
FERRJER/S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Malting Machinery.
HELIDON SPA
Is sold at moderate prices, 4 dozen or
6 dozen in a case—Pints and Splits -
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1445.]
[Thursday, October 24, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NE BOOKS
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Da Lorey and Sladen, Queer Things About Persia, 10s 6d,
post Bd.
Bindloss, Delilah of the Snows, 8s 6d, postage 6d.
Guerbsr, Myths of Greece and Rome, illus., 9s, post Bd.
Forestisr, Brabant and East illus., 9s, post Sd.
Oxenhara, Weaver of Webs, cloth 9d, postage 3d.
Pertwee, American Humorous Reciter, Is, post id.
Gould, The Practitioner’s Medical Dictionary, 265, p. Is.
Hoare, Arctic Exploration, illus., 9s, post 9d,
Thresh and Porter, Preservatives in Food and Food
Examination, 17s 6d, post Is 6d.
Rudyard Kipling’s Prose Works, Pocket Edition, thin
paper, in scarlet limp leather ; Vol. L, Plai* Tales
from the Hills, 6s, postage 6d.
Austin, The Door of Humility, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Howden, Boys’ Book of Locomotives, 6s, post 6d.
Blyth, Amazement, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Classified Quotations : A Book for the Banquet, 7s 6d, p. 6d
Calkins and Holden, Modern Advertising, illps., 7s 6d,
post Bd.
The Model Engineer, half-yearly vol., ully illus., 7b 6d,
post Is.
Hudson’s bssjst’
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
THE GREAT ANTISEPTIC REMEDY
For the Cure of COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and tf>e
PREVENTION of CONSUMPTION.
sdf
A— The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B—The Trachea, or windpipe.
C —The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D— A of one of the lungs.
Unlike Cough Medicines, “EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES” do not interfere with digestion. On
the contrary, they haVe a beneficial effect, aa
their Antiseptic Properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of food. . [2.
The RED PAGE
POEMS BY ANONS
FAIR HELEN.
I wish I were where Helen lies ;
Night and day on me she cries ;
O that I were where Helen lies
On fair Kirconnell lea !
Curst be the heart that thought the thought,
And curst the hand that fired the shot,
When in my arms burd Helen dropt,
And died to succor me !
O think na ye my heart was sair
When my Love dropt down and spak nae mair!
I laid her down wi’ meikle care
On fair Kirconnell lea !
As I went down the water-side,
None but my foe to be my guide,
None but my foe to be my guide,
On fair Kirconnell lea;
I lighted down my sword to draw,
I hacked him in pieces sma’,
I hacked him in pieces sma’,
For her sake that died for me. ..
O that I were where Helen lies !
Night and day on me she cries;
Out of my bed she bide me rise.
Says “ Haste and come to me !”
O Helen fair ! O Helen chaste !
If I were with thee I were blest,
Where thou lies low and taks thy rest
On fair Kirconnell lea.
I wish my grave were growing green,
A winding-sheet drawn owre my een,
A nd I in Helen’s arms lying.
On fair Kirconnell lea.
. I wish I were where Helen lies;
Night and day on me she cries ;
And I am weary of the skies,
Since my Love died for me.
MY LOVE IN HER ATTIRE.
My love in her attire doth show her wit,
It doth so well become her :
For every season she hath dressings fit,
For Winter, Spring, and Summer.
No beauty she doth miss
When all her robes are on :
But Beauty’s self she is
When all her robes are gone.
WALY, WALY.
O waly, waly; up the bank,
And waly, waly doun the brae,
And waly, waly, yon burn-side.
Where I and my Love wont to gae I
I lean’d my back unto an aik,
I thoucht it was a trustie tree ;
But first it bow’d and syne it brak—
Sae my true love did lichlie me.
O waly, waly, gin love be bonnie
A little time while it is new !
But when ’tis auld it waxeth cauld,
And fades awa’ like morning dew.
O wherefore should I busk my heid,
Or wherefore should I kame my hair?
For my true Love has me forsook,
And says he’ll never lo’e me mair.
Now Arthur’s Seat sail be my bed,
The sheets sail ne’er be ’filed by me ;
Saint Anton’s Well sail be my drink ;
Since my true Love has forsaken me.
Marti’mas wind, when wilt thou blaw,
And shake the green leaves aff the tree ?
O, gentle Death, when wilt thou come ?
For of my life I am wearie.
’Tis not the frost, that freezes fell,
Nor blawing snaw’s inclemencie,
’Tis not sie cauld that makes me cry ;
But my Love’s heart grown cauld to me.
When we cam in by Glasgow toun,
We were a comely sicht to see ;
My Love was clad in the black velvet,
And I mysel in cramasie.
But had I wist, before I kist,
That love had been sae ill to win,
I had lock’d my heart in a case o’ gowd,
And pinn’d it wi’ a siller pin.
And 0 ! if my young babe were born,
And set upon the nurse’s knee ;
And I mysel were dead and gane,
And the green grass growing over me 1
THE LOVER IN WINTER PLAINETH
FOR THE SPRING.
O, western wind, when wilt thou blow
That the small rain down can rain ?
Christ, that my love were in my arms.
And I in my bed again !
THE TWA CORBIES.
As I was walking all alane
I heard twa corbies making a mane;
The tane unto t’other say,
“ Where sail we gang and dine to-day 1 *
“In behint yon auld fail dyke,
I wot there lies a new-slain Knight;
And naebody kens that he lies there,
But his hawk, his hound, and lady fair.
“ His hound is to the hunting gane,
His hawk to fetch the wild-fowl hame.
His lady’s ta’en another mate,
So we may make our dinner sweet.
“ Ye’ll sit on his white hause-bane.
And I’ll pick out his bonnie blue een ;
Wi’ ae lock o’ his gowden hair
We’ll theek our nest when it grows bare.
“ Mony a one for him makes mane,
But nane sail ken where he is gane ;
o’®r his white banes, when they are bare,
The wind sail blaw for evermair.”
Til /: LIFE A AD WORKS OF ANON
PROBABLY the most remarkable fact
in literature is that its greatest name,
is to this day almost disregarded. It
is often the fate of genius to perish
before its tardy recognition comes ; but the
author whose life and works we are now con-
sidering is almost unknown both to
public and critic. It may possibly be the
proudest boast of the writer that he was the
first in all the centuries of literature to dis-
cover and acclaim the genius of Anon.
Shakespeare has his statues, his memorial
theatres, his societies, his Sydney Lee, to
proclaim his eminence; Browning has—or
had—his elucidation societies; even Glad-
stone has his bag, Bliicher and Wellington
have their boots, and Napoleon possesses his
game of cards ; but to the honor of Anon not
one statue has been raised, not a society
constituted, not even a collar or a boot-polish
or a corset named. Even in these frenzied
days of anthologies, no one has taken the
trouble to compile a volume of his works ;
and the Dictionary of National Biography
and John’s Notable Australians absolutely
ignore his existence. So, after centuries of
neglect, we offer this tardy biographical and
critical reparation.
J*
Anon must be admitted to be the greatest
literary genius that ever appeared on this
globe. Certain of his smaller poems appear
on this page; but that selection, while
indicative of his wide range of experience,
can give no conception of the breadth of his
literary scope, the almost superhuman versa-
tility of Anon’s mind. For to Anon are
credited such works as The Letters of Junius,
The Book of Job, most of Mr. Benson’s novels,
all the articles in the Edinburgh and the
Quarterly Review, An Englishwoman’s Love
Letters, Letters from Hell, all the editorials
in all the papers of the world, The Silver
Domino, How to Be Cheerful though Bilious,
and all of Life except the advertisements.
What a mind such a list—which is, of course,
incomplete—displays ! And in the midst of
his innumerable iiterary and journalistic
activities, the subject of our biography finds
time to send letters on every conceivable
subject to the editor of every paper in the
world except The Peking Gazette, which has
a commendable habit of discouraging com-
ment. Only the other in the in-
terests of justice, Anon wrote to Mr.
Justice Simpson during the Crick case.
And even the public press does not suffice to
exhaust the literary activity of Anon ; for it
is he who is the author of the letter that tells
the trusting young wife that her husband
was seen taking a young lady with a wire-
netting blouse down to Manly on the very
evening when he was detained by urgent
business at his office. And to Anon’s fertile
imagination can be traced most of the good
(smoking-room) stories in the world, and the
bulk of the (boudoir) ‘ ‘ limericks ” that raise
a smile. And not one statue, not one public
holiday, not one tooth-powder dedicated to
Anon 1
A*
Of the life of Anon little is known. Even
his birth-place and birth-date are uncertain ;
though, from the evidence of his varied
activities to-day, it is apparent that Anon
is still in the healthy maturity of his genius.
Critics have contended that the works
signed “ Anonymous ’’ are also from the pen
of Anon ; and research not only seems to
confirm this bold theory, but augments our
sense of stupor at the versatility of his
genius. Attempts have from time to time
been made to identify Anon with “Pro
Bono Publico,” and even with “ A Constant
Reader”; but it seems doubtful whether
Anon would so far venture into the broad
light of publicity.
However, is it necessary that we should
know anything about the private life of
Anon ? He may have his reasons for con-
cealing his identity —and Mr. Justice
Simpson may be one of them. And while
respecting'this shrinking modesty, we may
remember that we have the best of Anon in
his works. It is by them that he asks us to
judge him ; and these place him on the pin-
nacle of literary fame.
By the way, as another proof of his versa-
tile genius, we may be permitted to call
attention to this article, the only known
autobiography of our subject. It, too, has
beer; written by Anon.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
What has happened to the Australian novel ?
Here are two of the latest : The Man from
Curdie’s River, by Donald Maclean (Hodder and
Stoughton), and Nancy Drake, by Aim4e Inger-
soll (Lothian, Melb., 65.). The first is written from
the standpoint of a vestryman, and the second
from the standpoint of The Family Herald. The
Man from Cardie's River will he read with
pleasure by all precentors; and Nan,cy Drake is
pure joy.
“There are few things more pleasing to an
office-bearer than to see his church full of people,”
observes Donald Maclean. The Man from Curdie’s
River is emphatically a Good book; but it con-
trives to be moral without being mawkish. The
story is of the coming to Curdie’s River district of
anew parson, who disapproves of cuss-words and
dancing. The parson is very young and very
naive, though he isn’t exactly a Judkins.
“ I believe (he says) that God makes people in
pairs. Whenever He makes a man He makes a
woman, and fits her in every way to be the man’s
complement. And I believe, too, that, though
the one may be born in the farthest forests of
Canada, and the other in the deepest bush of the
Australian interior, or, what is more to the
point, though the one may have been born in the
highest circles of society and the other in the
lowest, yet, if they will only wait God’s time, and
seek His guidance, He will bring them together
and make them happy, though all the world stood
up to forbid the banns.”
It is a comforting belief, and, like most beliefs,
it is impossible of proof. It presupposes a busi-
ness organisation on the part of Providence that
to a mere mortal seems needlessly complex. Why
put one of the pair in Canada and the other in
Australia? Why one in a factory and the other
upon a throne ? However, when the parson finds
that a girl loves him he remarks. “ Don’t cry,
Jinny, and don’t do anything in a hurry. Let us
pray about the matter, and think it over for a
week.”
And after that he Fell. “The parson became as
other men —other young men—-and in that fatal
moment he did what any young man was sure to
do—and no harm thought—but which a minister,
no matter how young, may never do, under pain
of ruination ; he obeyed the apostolic injunction ;
he treated the younger woman as a sister —he
kissed her on the lips ” !
&
The shocked reader, at this, is almost compelled
to shut the book. That such things should hap-
pen in Australia ! But she should read on. There
is a thrilling account of a revival meeting, in
which the dreadful characters that dwell in the
bush are “converted” wholesale, and henceforth
presumably the bulloekies are courteous to their
teams. Also the rouseabout, Dick the Dasher, is
“born again.”
“ ‘l’m converted, if ever anybody wos. Praise
God ! praise God I. .. If mother had only lived
ter see this ! ’ . . .
“They rose up with hearts melted and aglow,
and eyes filled with tears, and stood a moment
looking into each other’s faces ; then the parson,
seized by irresistible impulse, took Dick’s face in;
both his hands, and kissed him” !
He seems fond of kissing, this parson. But the
yarn is not all revivalist meetings ; the people in
the bush are real Australians, and the parson is
occasionally a man. And the precentor-author
sometimes talks good Australian horse-sense.
“ And if this that I write should ever fall into
the hands of a young missionary, I would say to
him that of all the ways by which a man may
travel to the hearts of a bush congregation there
is none surer than this—be good to your horse :
feed him well, groom him well ; always have him
looking well, even if you have to deny yourself of
many things to do it: and you will be well repaid,
for if your people see that you are good to your
horse they will be good to you, and forgive you a
great deal in the way of poor sermons and failures
of other kinds.”
F 3.
#
With greater expectation we turn to Nancy
Drake, for the Australian publisher has produced
the book in charming guise. Aimee Ingersoll’s
recipe for a novel is to put in nothing that could
shock the morals of a grandmother or irk the
intelligence of a girls’ school, and to fill up the
blanks thus left by letters and sermons, liberally
peppering the concoction'with the common-places
of quotation. With a commendable Restraint she
has contrived a book in which nothing whatever
happens. True, on page 152 the villain enters,
but he only lasts for nine pages. Then he is shot,
and henceforth nothing keeps on happening with
a soothing regularity. All the characters except
the nine-page villain are angels, not even except-
ing the “good mannered ” cows that “frisk with
joy in their matronly way ” as they follow Nancy
up to the milking-shed. “She never liked any-
one but herself to milk them, for Nancy loved
the dear, patient creatures, and they, in their
way, returned her love, knowing and feeling as
all animals do when they are loved and treated in
a sympathetic human way.” Her 'grandfather,
Captain Drake, is a simple old sea-captain, who
has unaccountably strayed from melodrama.
“‘Lor’ bless my soul, lad,’ he said, ‘I don’t
want any introductions. An old salt, such as I
am, has seen too much of human nature not to
know a true, honest gentleman when he sees
one.’ ”
The story begins in Tasmania, but soon we are
in England—the dear old England of the melo-
drama. Of course, we are taken to Hethersett
Hall, and the stately Lady Hethersett and the
lineaged Sir Philip at once enthusiastically give
their assent to Philip’s marriage to the unknown
Tasmanian Nancy. This historic county family
welcome the son’s wife, for “ although not in their
set’’she was “doubtless far more lovable than
the slangy, up-to-date, mannish girl of the present
day.” That is so like what an English county
family ryould do. Aimee Ingersoll supplies us
with valuable information about English country
life. She mentions the names of ail the horses
every character rides, and she does not even
forget the Clumbers.
“Sir Philip’s Clumbers accompanied him on
his rounds, fine pure Clumber spaniels. They
■were noted, not only in Norfolk, but in the
surrounding counties. Generations of them had
lived and died at Hethersett Hall. There was a
family of young Clumbers, with their mother
Joan, living at the keeper’s lodge in the Home
Park.”
But. like the frisking and joyous cows, the
noted Clumbers immediately disappear from the
scene. And the reader is probably just getting
interested in the Clumbers. And it was solely
the desire to learn more of Joan Clumber that
forced us to read to the end of the book.
This device is known to the novel-writer as
dramatic suspense. She cunningly leaves us to
our conjectures about Joan. However, in place
of the vanished Clumbeis, we have the Rector of
Hetherscrt cum-Strfn’ :>ec3on._ All of Aimee In-
gersoll’s men are six teet high, but Hethersett-
cum-Strowbedon is six feet three. He is also broad
and athletic in build, and given to “pondering
over the sufferings of poor humanity.”
“What an advantage it is for us in this country
place (Lady Hethersett piously observes) to have
such a parish priest, so..broad-minded, and taking
so large a view of life; also so strong a church-
man. loving so' deeply all her old traditions and
customs.”
Even more interesting is the eldest boy of an
artist’s family. “He has such a fine intellectual
face. His mother says that he was always preach-
ing sermons at one time, dressed up in a night-
dress for a surplice.” Aimee Ingersoll (to fill up)
favors us with two of these sermons. This pre-
cocious little angel is appropriately named
Arthur, and he is “ a very nice-looking, refined
boy, with golden hair, a lovely complexion, and
nice blue eyes, with dark eyelashes.” Also, he is
destined for the choir. His father, the alleged
artist, states that he would like to paint a picture
of Lady Hethersett as the Madonna, and Nancy’s
child as Christ. “Truly I feel I should outdo
the old Masters, for their models always appear
to me to have been either eoarse or insipid.”
Lady Hethersett spends her time visiting her
villagers. “I just love them, and they do one so
much good,” she ghoulishly observes. “ I learn so
much from their patient sufferings, and really
think I enjoy my village visitings more than I
do my social.”
J*
Jack, the alleged hero, really doesn’t do any-
thing but marry Nancy and shake hands with the
Duke of York. They met in Melbourne at a
reception, and “Jack, who knew the Duke and
Duchess well, shook hands with them both, and
chatted about their Norfolk home. The Duke
invited him to join his shooting party on the
morrow. ... A red letter evening truiy ! The
centre pf all, so gracious, stately, and beautiful,
was the daughter of Kings, teaching such a lesson
to the daughters of Australia in the simplicity of
her dress and manners.”
After that heroic action Jack fades away.
But Nancy enchains our interest still. For
her wedding-dress “she wore white chiffon over
white satin. She was wearing a plain
tulle veil, her only ornament being a pearl
necklace, given to her by Jack.” Of another
wedding we are told that the needle-
work upon the dress had been “ done by some
Sisters of the Church,” while “ the Bishop of the
diocese performed the marriage ceremony, and
had also officiated as Celebrant at the Holy
Eucharist early that morning.” These excerpts
are enough to prove that the book could be safely
put into the hands of even the most abandoned of
grandmothers.
During the honeymoon in Melbourne, while
Nancy was shopping, ‘ ‘ the Captai n and Jack would
visit the piers and inspect the shipping. Also
they went over the gaol.” And, upon their
travels, “when they arrived at Pompeii lunch
was ready. They quite enjoyed the macaroni
dressed with tomatoes, and various other dishes
of the country.” And in England, when la-
borers touched their hats and old woman bobbed
to the carriage, “ Nancy, who was not accustomed
in her old home to see reverence shown by the
poor to the rich, but who, since her time spent at
Hethersett, had become used to it, understood
the regret she had often heard her grandfather
express at the want of reverence shown in the
New World to age and position.”
In the end we learn that Jack and Nancy begot
six (6) children, and old Captain Drake died re-
citing “ Crossing the Bar.”
The book is somejvhat affecting. It may ap-
proximately be classified as Slush 9.
THE TREND THAT DIDN’T.
(By the Red Page, Hunt Coleman, J. M. Leape,
H, Baton, “ Anon,” R. C. Batchelor, H. S.
Mitchell and N. Edmond.)
CHAPTER IX.—THE GHOST WALKS.
The cinematograph camera gave its final click.
“Thank you, ladies and gentlemen,” said the
tired operator. “You’ve all been very long-
suffering, but we’ve got it right at last; and I
think I can promise you the most exciting and
sensational film record ever produced in Australia.
I have developed the earlier scenes, and the cur-
tains to each scene are fine. I must also thank the
mechanists for the assistance they ha ve given in
the spectacular effects—the marriagh upon the
cathedral spire, and. Alice’s fall down thVchimney
beat Bland Holt. As I indicated, the manage-
ment will pay for breakages.”
“What about bruises?” asked Alice—whose
stage name was Cissie Kissie. (Her realname was
Jane Oripes, and her father, William Gripes, had
“doubled” the parts of the red-whiskered con-
stable, John Blackadder, and seven of the dead
Customs officers.) “ I’m afraid we can’t pay for
bruises,” remarked the cinematograph man.
“ We’ve had to expend so much on cyclones and
explosions.”
It was a weary but happy company that filed
out past the treasury, and the stage was deserted
except for Carruthers (the hired dog), who, having
had more red ink than was good for him, went
miserably to sleep in the roll of wire-netting.
The End.
—- i 4- —
The first number of a quarterly magazine, The
Colonial Office Journal (Waterlow, London,
Is. 6 d,), contains the Australian Royal Commis-
sioners’ Report upon New Guinea, an article upon
the Transvaal Constitution, and other matter of
interest to the Empire.


At
Smr
w
D
Illustrated Spring and Summer
Fashion Portfolio, post free on
: application. * —
SEASONABLE and
FASHIONABLE
BROUGHT WITHIN REACH of the MOST MODERATE
PURSE BY THE ECONOMISING INFLUENCE OF
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
Smart Silk
%
mmm
ms
Si
■m,
S
m
107
103
‘to
m
i
m
a
v
#o#
iff
a
m
2V.T
MWM no
Famous Low
ces
45#
#53
V
Typical of many others at
The New Palace Emporium.
No. 1189. —Ladies’ Japanese Silk
Shirt, Ivory, Navv, and Black.
Sizes, S.W.', W., and 0.5., 14/6.
No. 453.—1v0ry Japanese Silk
Blouse, tucked and hemstitched,
detachable Collar, open in front.
Sizes, S.W., W., and 0.5., 17/6.
No. 103.—Japanese Silk Blouse, with
detachable Collar or without
Collar, Ivory, Black, Navv.
Sizes, S.W., W„ and . 0.5., 15/6.
No. 454. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, with Double Silk Yoke,
Ions? sleeves, open in front. Sizes,
S.W., W., and 0.5., 16/6.
No. 404. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes
Insertion, Elbow Sleeves. Sizes,
S.W., W., and 0.5., 18/9.
No. 451. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, tucked and hemstitched,
detachable Collar, to fasten in
front, first quality. Sizes, S.W.,
W„ and 0.5., 21/-.
No. 418. —Ivory Japanese Silk
Blouse, trimmed Valenciennes
Lace Insertion, long sleeves, 13/6.
No. 107.—Japanese Silk Shirt, Ivory,
Black, and Navy, with detach-
able Collar or without Collar.
Sizes, S.W., W.. and 0.5., 11/9.
No. 1187.—Japanese Silk Blouse,
tucked and trimmed Silk Bead-
ing, Ivory, Black, and Navy.
Sizes, S.W., W., and 0.5., 10/6.
Well Made, Stylishly Cut,
and Smartly Finished,
No. 0000. —Maids’ Knife Pleated
Summer Cloth Skirts. Waist,
22 to 25in. Black or Navy
Lengths—
-28 30 32 34 30in.
.15/0 10/- 10/0 17/- 17/0
No. 433. —Black or Navy Sicilian
Skirts. Length, 38 to 44in.
Waist, 23 to 27in„ 14/0.
No. 495.—Ladies’ Black or Navy
Sicilian Skirts, strapped self
material, Length, 38 to 44in.
Waist, 23 to 27in., 21/-.
No. 700. —Stylish Black Voile Skirts,
trimmed Silk Braid and Silk
Applique. Various Designs.
Length, 39 to 45in Waist, 23
to 27in., 08/-
No. 509.—Black or Navy Mohair
Skirts. Length, 38 to 44in.
Waist, 23 to 30in., 10/9.
Same style. Black or Navy
Sicilian, 21/-.
No! 1081 —Black Canvas Voile Skirts,
trimmed Fancy Applique.
Length, 38 to 44in. Waist, 23
to 32in., 29/0.
No. 400. —Maids’ Black or Navy
Sicilian Skirts. Waist, 22 to 25in.
Lengths —
28 30 32 34 30in.
OOL
zsor
G£Z
I §. Jgi;.-
99#
M. 1
- m n
S6#
60S
0&09
MF \
V Qy/#r
-JVd/jl 02
no
ANTHONY HORDERN <& SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WOOL.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S Y D ]\r E Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the MciSTally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape »> BOOKS-
sfd
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dancb, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is fid each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Datb Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds'
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Ls. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted ls 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted ls 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptamkron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Nigiit, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post ls 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post ls. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted ls. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, is; postl/3. Krkut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post ls 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
Tilk Romish Priests, 2s. Xiie Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions. Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair. Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid's Art of Love,
2s6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s Gd posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post Is. 3d. Midwives’
Handp.ook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
is.sd. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
I'. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. .Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
US' ~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to nut a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and lin addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, See.
This offer is at least worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
2W
sdf
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
great offer is only open for a limited time, „ .
Write at once. THE GIJTTA PERCHA TRADING GO.. 120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENOS
FRUIT
HEADACHE,
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘ Fruit Salt ’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTlON.— Capsule marked ENO’B 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you have a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Vnparad only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON. UNO.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists. &c., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES Bat <Wy ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
MWm. ;
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
N© MONEY WANTED
We have decided to give away &5000 in good and
useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Pei\ny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
( GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS totliosewho will distribute our
{ Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you
) any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
( ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your friends or keep for
\ your own use, and at any time within one month after you receive the Cards send us TiuTamounT
) due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good,
( useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Payment. Remember ! You
\ may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever
) with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so. A
; Trial' Solicited, simply send us your Order fcr One, Two, Three, or up to Ten Dozen, and
) we will forward the Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to
) show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Presents we give away
) to our Agents.
(THE TRADp;
) SUPPLIED.
sfd
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W.
sf
CORSETS
B
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
&
&
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.£>. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
Bn 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-frcnled corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty In procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to :
d. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., „
Flinder. Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY,
75. York Street, BYDNEY.
J. BUNTING,
Central House, Hobson Bt,, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
TWO LEADING BRANDS .
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER,
RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Wholesome and Refreshing.
Guaranteed Life Preservers.
WINCHESTER
Mm
*s&•
h •'<"' V '* V '-
vv 1 ©& ■>
v „ ( , ‘ '
Kj fe . - ~.jis
. •*••. , M .•V-'-.v
: W§?%W -: X\ -I
“Repeater”
Smokeless Cartridges
The superiority of Winchester
Smokeless Powder Shotgun Cart-
ridges is undisputed. Among in-
telligent shooters they stand first
in popularity, records and shooting
qualities. Always use them
For Field or Tra|) Shooting.
Ask Your Dealer For Them.
CARTER*
piLLS
sdƒ
nowtE
InwEß
IPOdd
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Everyman and woman should know that Liver Disorders
tsdhrssfs- Jsraaes
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
sfd


The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
Mger’s
'Gherni Sectoral
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure you get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Prioe 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
T&JNS
ARE SAFE
and WEAR.
The World's Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S J
“Facile Princeps”
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Od:i. jmies write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
A COMPLETE
CURE
THE EVIDENCE
from 338, Victoria Street, Darlinghurst,
Sydney, N.S.W., Sept. 21, 1905 :
“ For seven months I suffered from
a severe cold which was completely
cured after using one large bottle of
SCOTT’S Emulsion.”
V. MOLONY.
WHY
The Cold was cured
Mr. Molony’s evidence is brief,
but it is wonderfully to the point!
Reams of writing could not have
told more. The plain fact is
that Scott’s cured a grown man
of that most difficult of all things
to throw off—a heavy cold. It
simply shows what a mistake it
is to fancy (as some do) that
Scott’s is only a remedy for the
youngsters The truth is that
C.
THE REASON
ft
tti
Always see ’the
fi amiaii with the
ti >li o" the pack-
age Tins guaran-
tees the genu.ne
aouTT’o.
the same bottle will
serve both parent
and child. Never
forget that! There
is one difference, and
one only—the elder
ones take the bigger
dose ! But mind the
emulsion is Scott’s,
for no other is really
forceful enough for
adults.
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
SSOWHSM
FOR
The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Banning ton's
and seethatyou get it.
[iirnn
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
sfd
THE BEST NATURAL. APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The "VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity-”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Pari
of the Label. -
By Royal
Warrant to
sfd
His Majesty
the King.
BOVRIL
is an excellent tonic, bracing the system
when everything else fails.
Whoa Mosquitoes annoy you
( remember how useful, either for pre- <
) venting the attack of these and other j
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their <
t bites, so many people have found (
I Calvert’s j
|2O % Carbolic Soap, j
> It is also pleasant and refreshing for
| bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
S against infectious diseases.
> Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
>Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
SAVES
MANY LIVES.
THE
WORLD'S CURE
FOR
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
OflMdge
” £ungTonfc
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
INFLUENZA
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
PLASMON
COCOA
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body*
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment .
than ordinary Coooa. '
1
PLASMON OATS;
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle )
of HusK and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment \
with easy coo King.
PLASMON ;
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
Ask for them.
GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORE-:.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rosalind.
Rosalind went to bathe
And the sea came up to greet her,
And the white foam laughed to meet her,
And the seaweed clung about her,
And no salt-sharp winds could flout her
When Rosalind went to bathe.
Rosalind went to bathe.
Two golden anklets made the sun,
And golden kisses, one by one,
He left upon her brow and cheek ;
For her white peer was far to seek
When Rosalind went to bathe.
Rosalind went to bathe.
She shook the water from her hair,
It fell into her bosom fair,
And dripped from off her sea-dark gown
To her fine instep pearling down,
When Rosalind went to bathe.
Rosalind went to bathe,
And all along the grass-grown leas
The waves made riot in the seas ;
Far up the beach they followed then
And wept, because they were not men,
When Rosalind went to bathe.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Retribution.
Your shadow falls, and parting.
Grows dark across ray door,
And straight I turn, upstarting,
As I have turned before,
Thinking to see you enter
Where you will come no more.
Lightly for one brief season
You held my love in play,
And lightly without reason
You tossed my love away.
What matter !—as you used me
Will you be used some day.
Here at my very doorway
You sing, as you go by—
No shadow darkens your way—
Of love that will not die.
Your sun is high in heaven,
Your heart of hope beats high.
But do you think, I pray you,
That you unscathed will go?
That sorrow ne’er will stay you ?
That love will smoothly flow ?
For every heart that’s broken
Some heart must pay, I know.
So sing your joyful measure.
It cannot hurt my pain.
Drink deep your cup of pleasure
Unto the very drain.
You’ve but a span, then surely
You will not sing again.
I am no vengeful lover.
I curse not though you sing ;
My grief is passing over,
But yours is following.
For Nemesis the ruthless
Will have her reckoning.
VIC.
NEVILLE MARGARET GOYDER.
Bigotry!
Now Johnson he’s a bigot sure,
Because he ain’t a Tory,
And ’cause he’s dead agin the war,
When we’re a-wantin’ glory ;
And Smith—he’s mostly bigot, too—
Because he wrathy waxes.
And says I ought ter drop the drink
And go and pay my taxes !
I take no stock in Bi go tree,
A Protestant am I, sir ;
No Scarlet Woman hangs around
The bed where I’m to die, sir ;
The Methodees I can’t abear,
With all their cantin’ speeches ;
Their narrow-minded par3on-man—
I’d hang him where he preaches.
I can’t abear Re-pub-li-cans—
I hate the Russian despit;
I’d guillotine your Anarchists
Without a moment’s respite;
I’d put the Press that prints their views
To rot in gaol beside them —
These crazy, cracked, new-fangled views—
I never could abide them.
I think that Us fair-minded men
Should sit on every jury,
To try whatever folks upset
The world with sound and fury.
I think if Us fair-minded men
Could give them Bigots sentence,
We’d mighty sudden turn their souls
To find a true repentance.
For Bigotree’s a dreadful curse,
And them that have it in them
You’ll hardly ever get it out,
Unless you go and ski a them ;
And him that has the biggest share—
It’s wondrous how he labors
To kill the bit his squintin’ eyes
Can find v ;< > n his neighbors !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


“Lf4rt^Mztal
Trade dlark!
Sydney Show Rooms
56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne
123 Queen Street.
y. '///
(adburyscocca
-A- cup=ful from
every half tea=spoonful.
Cadbury’s Cocoa is
not only PUREST and BEST,
but also the most ECONOMICAL
to buy and use. A halt tea-spoonful
makes a cup of the most delicious
it is possible to obtain.
The New F rae'rant Tobacco.
Hand Made
from Selected
Virginia Leaf.
I
W r
Tobacco
1 <
Man u facta red
Richmond Vir^*
by Larus & Brother C?
Packed by RTowf.s * Co. Ajenrs.Sydoey
Facsimile of Soz. tin.
2oz. Tins and
Plugs, from ail
Tobacconists.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs
Scotch whisky
a
m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
m
A
Z
z
z
Z
7,
v xfermwa?o/'
JVEV£R FAtiS.
HEAD office - Mutual Life Building, Martin Place,Sydney-
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
nr F t ul ' P t, iol ' krS , * U P plie<i res P““"g the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. J. M. CAMPBELL,
° e ° r » e Street, Brisbane. Director.
ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies Hairdressers, Hair- lCil KIVr ST SVnwirv
Workers & Dermatologists, T „*•» SYDNEY
LADIES’ PREMipd tiAiDnDceeiiin Between Elizabeth & Castlereasrh Streets.
reception & DRESSING rooms on ground floor.
sfd
w RUBfROID ’
" DAHPGQURSE
m cents
• • DAMP j
i'^oe 0
llfi
I 0N \
■ the Safe
1 Side?
x.
Si/*'
V ...
l *
®y r
✓
ip
S***
i r^7 ,
m
i
A mu
■. -
V.:.;.:, fc : J
The Roof that Covers
the Country !
ruberoid.
It may be obtained from all Merchants, Builders*
Ironmongers, and Country Storekeepers.
WHOLESALE AGENTS :
i RICH (£L CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered nt the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1445.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1907.
Prick 6d.
THE OFFICERS LEAVING THE ILL-PAID SHIP.
Barton, Turner, Isaacs, O’Connor and many more have already come ashore. Now, J. C. Watson gathers his dunnage and comes down the
gangway. Barring the captain, who is sick, and the first mate, who is old and tired, there are few save ordinary seamen on board now.


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907.
A Special and Enlarged Issue Published
on DECEMBER 12.
It will contain Verses, Sketches and Stories,
grave and gay, by the foremost writers of the
Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the best Black
and White work in Australia, and will picture
the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, year by year,
is the standard epitome of the life of young
Australia.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, In consequence
of the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, MO RETURNS will be
accepted.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 20th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
A nsti'ul i.a for the A ustruf inns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tiir Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thh Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
II ow to A tldvess Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters ('with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
hut to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonoarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A rnateurs in UlncJc and White •
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. _ Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central Neivs Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brevier and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai .—Breioer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x lUin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1907.
THOMSON AND THE FEDERAL
CAPITAL.
John Thomson, the obscurity who represents
Cowper (N.S.W.)in the House of Representatives,
has announced yet another departure in the
matter of the Australian capital. Thomson pro-
poses to start the grumble and the complaint and
the Mother State grievance and the Ma woe all
afresh, with a new purpose in view. He desires a
capital at Moss Yale, close to Sydney’s back door
—dusty, dry Moss Vale, where there is no big
river, and no towering mountain, and no great
empty space to be filled up, and situated inalocality
where already water is being laboriously carted
long distances for man and beast. As Moss Yale
is inside the prohibited distance from Sydney,
Thomson proposes a referendum and an alteration
of the Constitution ; but why Australia should
take all this trouble he doesn’t say. His appar-
ent idea is that it is so obviously the duty and
pleasure of everybody to shove the capital
as close to Sydney as possible, that it is
needless to prove the existence of any special
advantages about Moss Vale except that it is near
to Sydney, and that a Federal city there would
naturally be Sydney’s appanage, small brother,
tail, appendix and hanger-on. Probably Thomson
would be an unutterably shocked man if anyone
suggested that, assuming there is to be an altera-
tion of the Constitution, it should be in the
direction of going back to the original bargain,
whereby the Australian Parliament had all Aus-
tralia to choose from. Thomson would most likely
call that proposition a wicked and shameful breach
of faith. The proposed breakage of the bargain
re the 100-mile limit from Sydney, and the con-
tinual and insulting breakage by N.S.W. poli-
ticians of the bargain that, so long as the capital
is in N.S.W., and not less than 100 miles from
Sydney, and is in a Federal territory of not less
than 100 square miles, the situation of the capital
and the area of the Federal territory are
matters for the decision of the Australian Parlia-
ment alone—these matters Thomson evidently
doesn’t regard as any breach of faith. Amid the
State Frights of Sydney the idea is to grab every-
thing possible for N.S.W., an<,l then demand
more. In the process these dreary and unsatiable
grumblers have done much to make their State
the most despised and hated place in the Com-
monwealth —despised because of their greed, ill-
faith, and brassy selfishness, and hated because
of their coarse, blatant, roaring insolence when
the attempted steal fails to come off.
* * * *
N.S.W. has already been dragged more than
sufficiently through the mud by two or three
anti-Australian papers and a venomous little herd
of politicians; and it will be well for its good
name if this attempt on the part of its petty
Thomson to add to the existing discredit is
dropped as early as possible. N.S.W. was the
State which commenced the Federal movement.
It was the only State which broke its word over
the movement; it pledged itself that the Federal
Constitution would be accepted in N.S.W. if it
received a majority of the votes at a referendum,
and provided the affirmative vote was at least
50,000 strong, and the after move of raising
the minimum to 80,000 was a discreditable fraud.
N.S.W. produced the only Premier who, having
left the Convention, to all appearance, fully satis-
fied with the Draft Constitution, at once pro-
ceeded to furiously denounce that Constitution
on public platforms, and urge its rejection. He
afterwards explained, off-handedly, that he did
this sort of thing because he “liked to be top-
dog,” which apparently meant that, having been
elbowed out of the leadership of the Convention
by Barton, he proceeded to re-assert his import-
ance by upsetting the Convention’s Bill, and sub-
stituting an altered Bill of his own. The rejection
was secured, or, rather, the Federal majority in
N.S.W. was disqualified by the fraudulent 80,000
minimum; but even the fraudulent 80,000 minimum
would almost certainly have failed to knock out
the measure had it not been for George Reid’s
impassioned assurance that the Braddon clause
would be utterly ruinous to N.S.W. And this
assurance proved almost immediately to be
another lie and fraud. When negotiations were
opened for ah amended Bill it was not the aboli-
tion of the Braddon clause that was insisted
upon (in fact, N.S.W.’s parochial papers and poli-
ticians have threatened secession of late unless the
Braddon clause, which is now open to repeal
after 1910, is fixed in the Constitution for ever),
but the location of the Federal capital in N.S.W.
The Federal capital grab was eminently successful
except in one matter—the political centre of Aus-
traliacannot be with in 100 miles of Sydney, and Syd-
ney itself is ruled out. By weird and tortuous
devices N.S.W. emerged from the Federal argu-
ment as the one State which had snatched what
looked like a solid and exclusive benefit for itself.
Its local politicians set it before the world as the
huckster, bargainer, and unpatriotic grabber of
the Commonwealth.
* * * *
So Federation began, and since its beginning
the State in*. ' + s of N.S.W. have more than lived
up to their ch-.-oter. In fact, their original
character, which was bad, has become steadily
worse. Within the last four or five years they
have attempted to lay it down that : (1) The
Australian capital must be wholly surrounded
and besieged by N.S.W. territory, and have no
land outlet to any other State, and no sea outlet
at all; (2) it must consequently be wholly
dependent on N.S.W. for road and railway com-
munication with the outer world(3) it must be
such a very small territory that it will necessarily
depend on N.S.W. for its water supply, which may
be clean or dirty, plentiful or scanty, or totally
absent, as the N.S.W. State Government pleases;
(4) it must be such a very small territory that
it will be dependent on the goodwill of the N.S.W.
State Government for its drainage outlet; (5) it
must be situated where all its trade will flow to
Sydney for Sydney’s exclusive profit; (6) it must
also be in some place wholly pleasing to the
State Parliament at Sydney. And, after the
lawless violence and insurrection of N.S.W.’s
JoSEPH-insect, the Commonwealth can picture
its capital under these conditions. It would be
practically beleaguered by the N.S.W. police
whenever some JosEPH-beetle or JACK-in-office at
Sydney had a real or bogus grievance ; its train
service might be suspended any time the Joseph-
caterpillar felt it up to him to “bring pressure to
bear” on Australia; the Australian Government
would probably be bombarded with spasmodic
and incredible and erratic bills for water supplied
per medium of rain that had fallen on the State
Territory of the JoSEPH-grasshopper, and any
attempt to dispute those bills would lead to the
cutting off of the supply; also, it would receive
peremptory notice in dry seasons that it was put
on short water-allowance, because the subjects of
the JoSEPH-creature outside its borders couldn’t
afford to let it have so much washing fluid.
* * * *
The proposed site at Moss Vale presents all
these drawbacks, and some more of its own. It
represents another attempt to break the Federal
bargain; another effort on the part of the Con-
gested Population party to fix the capital where
its population will not help to fill one of the
country’s great empty spaces, but will further
crowd one of the comparatively well-filled areas ;
and a special effort to make the Federal city a
mere suburb of Sydney, and a place created for
the glory of the Sydney importers. And there is
not one visible advantage as a set-off to all these
drawbacks. The selected site at Dalgety offers
cheap land, a sea-outlet, a land-outlet into
two States, a splendid climate, almost the
best water supply in Australia, and fine
scenery; it has many possibilities, by reason of
abundant water power, of becoming one of the
greatest and cheapest manufacturing cen-
tres in Australia; and it opens up the
prospect of promoting settlement in an almost
empty country, instead of further bloating
an already disproportionately large city. By com-
parison Moss Yale is a mere dusty suburb—a little
better than Surry Hills certainly, and with points
of advantage over Redfern, but practically a dusty
suburb none the less. The chief reason which
John Thomson assigns on its behalf is that, in his
opinion, “all the Federal representatives of
N.S.W. would' be in favor of it.” The state-
ment seems eminently improbable; why the
members from the far west and the far
south and the far north should take any
special interest in Moss Vale doesn’t appear.
But even assuming the unanimity of the N.S.W.
members, the fact remains that N.S.W. isn’t
Australia, and the interests of Australia call
for some little consideration now and then.
Further, there isn’t a word in the Constitution to
sav that the unanimous vote of the members from
N.S.W. shall settle the location of the capital;
that matter rests with the majority of the mem-
bers from all Australia. Furthermore, Thomson’s
idea involves an alteration of the Constitution,
and that requires the assent of at least 19 Senators
out of 36, and at least 38 Representatives out of
75 ; also it involves a referendum of all Australia,
and the assent of a majority of the electors in at
least four States, and also of a majority of the
whole body of electors who vote on the question.
That is a vast deal of trouble to take merely in
order to help on the congestion of population, and
to dump down the capital in a most unsuitable
spot at the back-door of Thomson’s parochial
shack.
A LEADER IN HANDCUFFS.
That J. 0. Watson has decided to give up the
leadership of the Labor party, and to abandon
public life, may be accepted as a fact. Something
may happen to avert the calamity; but it will
have to be something in the way of a miracle, and
miracles have become rare in these days of exact
thought. Watson is of such a type that it is cer-
tain he has weighed well in the balance all the
reasons for and against the step he now
proposes. It is equally certain that he did not
allow considerations of personal advantage and
comfort to have any undue weight in arriving at a
decision. Scores of times since he entered poli-
tical life he might have gone out of it with great
pecuniary advantage to himself. Many times he
might have, whilst remaining in politics, achieved
high Ministerial office by making some slight con-
cession on matters of principle. But never was
there given fair reason for a whisper against him.
Sometimes he was wrong in his views ; always he
was unselfish and patriotic. It is fair to conclude
now, therefore, that Watson retires because he can
see no reason to hope that, by remaining in Parlia-
ment, he can do much good for his country. The
conclusion which has led to the resignation is thus
as serious a matter as the resignation itself, and the
resignation is a loss not only to the Labor party
and to this Parliament, but to Australia and to
all the nations which make up the British Empire.
If Watson does not see reasonable hope of doing
good work for Australia as leader of the Labor
party, there is no possible reason to suppose that
any other man will succeed where he has confessed
to failure. And if the Labor party is hopeless as
a factor for Australia’s advancement, the political
future is uncertain and gloomy.
* * * *
As a rule, only the dead can be praised with
safety. But J. C. Watson’s career has always
been an exception. As Leader of the Federal
Labor party—forgetting forthemoment his curious
obsession on the Federal Capital question—he
has never said nor done a foolish thing ; and very
rarely has he neglected an opportunity to say or
do a wise thing. He has stood for financial
honesty, for Protection, for a determined grap-
pling with the land monopolist, and for a self-
respecting and efficient defence system. As a
party leader he has been always skilful, and
never reluctant to give patriotic and unselfish
help to keep in power men who sympathised
with his aims. As Prime Minister he
was a firm and capable administrator full
of courage and wisdom. Recalling all the
great Parliamentary leaders in Australia,
The Bulletin cannot cite one more apt as
a politician or more resolute as an advocate
of great principles than Watson. The influences
which drive such a man out of public life cannot
be for the good of the Commonwealth.
*■ * * *
Among those influences, there is, in the first
place, the haunting fear which sleeps by the
side of every public man in Australia who
is honest and patriotic, and neither boodles
nor neglects Ins political work. The re-
wards of public service are a miserable
pittance whilst on active service; afterwards
comes destitution, or a billet granted for the sake
of charity, the acceptance of which carries
with it some complexion of dishonor. The pit-
tance, too, is not graciously but most grudgingly
given. It is accompanied by a thousand sneers
at the “perks” of the public man, who is repre-
sented by the foolish as a harpy preying on the
people. When The Bulletin, a little while ago,
carried to a successful issue an agitation for
slightly better treatment of the highest of the
public’s servants, and Parliament increased
the allowances of members, the outcry in some
quarters was sufficient to drive a decent man
out of Parliament; even some of the Labor
leagues joined in the cry for a continuance of
Parliamentary sweating. In Great Britain, from
which Australia has copied many of its political
ideas, Parliament for centuries mostly represented,
in membership and constituency, a small, rich
oligarchy, and the oligarchs who represented their
class in Parliament found no necessity for allow-
ances. Because of this precedent, it is argued in
many quarters that any payment of Australian
members of Parliament is wrong, and the argu-
ment has succeeded at least in keeping the pay
down to a level which offers nothing but a
bare subsistence after necessary expenses have
been met. Consequently, there is no worldly
prospect for the man who goes into public life
(unless he is the kind of man who goes into politics
for the sake of getting a billet, and thereafter
draws scorn with his wages). A man with the
special ability of J. C. Watson could, in almost
any professional capacity, make sure of success.
In Parliament, he could only hope for a living
wage with no superannuation allowance. That
this had something to do with his determination
to give up public life is possibly true. But it was
in his case obviously not a very weighty argument,
or he would have yielded to it long ago. For
many years he showed a willingness to sacrifice
himself if it was for the good of Australia.
* * • *
But he had at last to come to the con-
clusion that there was no proof that he could
advance Australian interests by continuing
as nominal leader of the Labor party. In his
calculations of political strategy he was hampered
by the fact that he observed both the spirit and
the letter of his bond with scrupulous nicety. He
entered Parliament as a Labor member; a
Labor member he was resolute to remain.
His fidelity to the solidarity of the Labor
party was fanatic. Many times he had but
to say a word, and he could have brought
with him all the best of the party into a
combination which would have given Australia
another Ballance-Seddon Administration. But
the word was never spoken. It is likely that he
has long recognised that the only way in which
the Labor party can secure for Australia the great
and pressing reforms that the country requires is
by a combination with the National Protection-
ists. That combination has been always possible
since Deakin took the leadership of the National
party. But the Labor Leagues objected. They
handcuffed their leader. There could be only one re-
suit. Watson was a faithful Laborite, and would
do nothing against Labor’ssolidarity. Watson was
a faithful Australian, and would not consent to be
the means of hindering Australia’s progress. The
two principles have come into conflict. Watson
solves the problem so far as it affects him by going
out of politics.
*, ~ „
For Australia it is a sorry solution, though to a
man of Watson’s character it was probably the
only possible one. I here is a remote chance that
the dramatic resignation will have the effect of
awakening the Labor party (or rather the Labor
Leagues, which control the party) to a sense of
the unwisdom of handcuffing a leader and insist-
mg on an Ishmaelite attitude If so a lesser
leader may be able to do what Watson has not
been allowed to do. But the chance is remote.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Importer as a Public Enemy.
This is the recently-published tale of a Brisbane
bike importer, issued to the world per medium of
his local Courier :
Bicycles cannot be built in Australia, but only “ as-
sembled” from parts. The tariff simply transfers the
cycle trade from British and foreign manufacturers of the
complete cycle to the British or foreign component parts
maker, and compels the Australian public to pay a higher
price for a much inferior article, and does not provide
any extra advantages to enable the public to pay these
higher prices. Under the present conditions the cost of
building a bicycle from component parts, comprising all
THE WORK THAT CAN BE DONE IN AUSTRALIA, does not
exceed £2 per bicycle.
It is marvellous, and more than marvellous, to
consider the number of things which, according
to the importer, Australians can’t do. “ Bicycles
cannot be built in Australia,” this Brisbane
person alleges, but like all his kind, in all their
similar silly allegations, he doesn’t say why. The
obvious reason is that he can’t say why. If he
declared straight out that it is the utter inca-
pacity of the people, and their mental inferiority
to the poorest of the European races, that pre-
vents them making a bicycle or even a brick
or a pair of pants, he might get a rock
aimed at him ; so he only throws that insult by
implication. And, of course, he can’t say that it
is the prevalence of hot winds, or the lack of
water, or the existence of white ants in the Nor-
thern Territory that makes the bicycle in-
dustry impracticable. So he just planks
down his insane and insulting lie, and leaves
it at that ; and so accustomed is the
tame Australian to having mud thrown
at him by bounding importers that, when the
mud isn’t too glaringly obvious, he takes it quite
peacefully. As a matter of fact bicycle parts are
made in Australia. They have been made by
various firms for quite a long time. There are in
Sydney alone two establishments that make them,
and that are prepared to make enough of them to
supply all Australia. They are good parts, and
they are put together into bikes that are better
and cheaper than most of the imported articles.
The trouble is that the makers have to fight
against the importer; against the importer’s papers
which give him gratis advts. like the above in
order to help him to destroy Australian industry;
and against the belief, fostered by these papers,
that everything imported must be better than
anything Australian, and that it is always
worth while to pay more for the foreign
article (no matter how poor it looks) than
for the Australian one (no matter how good
it looks). The existence of this idea is no mere
figment of the imagination; when a big city
paper gives an importer space gratis in order that
he may falsely state that so simple a thing as a
bike can’t be made in Australia, and that, in any
case, an Australian bike would be “an inferior
article,” the evil is a very real one. The reason
why the importer does these things is obvious
enough. When we are supplied by the manufac-
turer at the other end of the world, his goods must
reach the small dealer and the public per medium
of the big importer, and vast is the profit thereof
to the great importer, and large is his mansion at
Darling Point and his palace at Toorak. But if
the manufacturer was here he would almost
certainly sell direct to the retailer—some
manufacturers, like Anthony Hordern, even
sell direct to the public—and then the
costly importer parasite would either have to do
some useful work or else starve. Hence he is,
for cash reasons, an enemy of the Australian
people; a man who seeks to destroy the capital
invested in Australian industries and to starve
the Australian artisan and his family ; and an in-
dividual who would sooner see this an empty and
defenceless land, unable to make anything for
itself, and with no work to offer to the industrial
immigrant, than see Australia prosper at the risk of
his ill-gotten gains. Hence also his constant lie
that Australians can’t, by any possibility, make
bikes, sewing-machines, pianos, dredges, ships,
starch, clothes-pegs, locomotives, ink, or anything
at all. And the importer is very numerous and
rich, and as an advertiser he is worth several of the
manufacturer, so the Foreign-trade press obliges
him by giving circulation to his slander and his
falsehood. The importer, the armed invader
(when he comes), the great land monopolist, the
plague and the rabbit are among Australia’s most
conspicuous enemies, and of these the importer
and the great land monopolist are the two worst
up to date. The remedy for the importer is not
fact or argument or refutation, but a 100 per cent,
duty. Truth is mighty but slow. It is calculated
to prevail, but it doesn’t prevail soon enough. In
a case like this a 100 per cent, duty can beat Truth
in a canter.
The Eabbit and the "Wire and the Dog.
The demand of Nielsen, M.L.A., thattheN.S.W.
Government should remit the dog-tax in country
districts, makes things awkward for the Wade
Ministry. Wade and his predecessor, Carru-
THERS, were very, very bitter and superior towards
the Australian Government because it taxed im-
ported wire-netting, their plea being that imported
wire-netting is used to restrain rabbits. Lyne’s
reply, that Australian wire-netting, made at
Lysaghts’ place in Sydney, would do just as well
to restrain* rabbits, didn’t appease Wade and
Carruthers in the least. Now Nielsen wants
to know why Wade and Carruthers, if they are
so anxious to keep down the rabbit, tax the coun-
try dog. The proposed tax on wire-netting was
30 per cent.; the tax on the swift but mixed and
yellow bush dog, that wouldn’t fetch 10s. at
auction, is over 25 per cent, per annum. Many
a dog pays 150 or 200 per cent, excise to Wade
and Carruthers before he finishes chasing


his last rabbit and gives up the ghost. _ Yet
the plain Australian dog, as a restriction
upon rabbits, has many advantages compared with
the imported netting. The imported netting
arrives here in a crushed and deteriorated con-
dition through being tightly rolled up and
squashed by the weight of heavy cargo, but even
the plainest and cheapest dog isn’t rolled up. The
netting remains in one place, and only restricts
the rabbit that comes to it; the dog runs after
the rabbit. The rabbit burrows under the net-
ting, but there is no record of it burrowing under
the dog. The rabbit climbs over the netting, but
even the maddest rabbit seldom climbs over the
dog. The rabbit rushes through holes in the net-
ting, but if it rushes into the large hole in the dog
it is eaten. Both the netting and the dog wear
out, but the dog leaves a vigorous posterity which
also eats rabbits, while the wire-netting is a
bachelor and leaves no posterity. A row of dogs
round a crop would be a much better safeguard
than a row of netting, but with an excise duty of
2s. 6d. per year on a mere yard of dog —equal to
£220 per annum on a mile of dogs—what chance
is there for the farmer ? When Wade and
Carrcthers denounced so bitterly because Lyne
taxed the imported wire-netting (he didn’t tax the
local article) which keeps out rabbits, and at the
same time they themselves taxed much more
heavily the plain local dog that takes in rabbits,
it is a fair inference that Wade and Carruthers
were only playing to the gallery, and didn’t really
care a straw about the rabbits, and were only
trying to be coarse, and disagreeable, and beastly
to the Government of Australia.
♦
The Axe of Labor.
When the majority of the Federal Labor Party
joined with the Foreign-traders to destroy the
Australian wire-netting industry in order to
punish Lysaght Bros., of Sydney, for that firm’s
attitude towards its employees, it was hoped that
the act was a mere ebullition of temper. But,
judging by an article in the usually sane and
moderate Sydney Worker, the party has defi-
nitely made up its mind to fall heavily on every
industry in which one or two firms have disputes
with the operatives. This reads like sheer in-
sanity ; and the evil consequences will fall heavily
on the already badly-treated operatives. If the
Labor Party is definitely committed to such a
policy, and carries it out to the bitter end, there
will soon be very few manufacturing industries
left in Australia. Just at present hatter Ander-
son, of Sydney—who is, after all, in a small
way of business—has trouble with his workmen,
and the Worker has made him a hearty promise
that the party will do its best to knock his
industry right out when that duty comes up
for consideration. Unfortunately, it cannot knock
out Anderson, by abolishing the hat duty,
without wrecking the other men in the same
line of business. A large percentage of the
Australian-made hats emanate from the Denton
Hat Mills of Victoria ; and up to the present
there has been no whisper against that concern.
Anderson is a mere item in the bucket; scattered
throughout N.S.W., Victoria and South Aus-
tralia there are, in round numbers, about 2000
people employed in the hat and cap manufacture.
To punish Anderson they are to be deprived of
the Protection that makes their industry possible,
and if this policy lasts they and their families
will presently be thrown out of work to starve on
a glutted labor market. Men capable of this sort
of revenge should be in a lunatic asylum, and not
a Legislature. The tariff proposes to give the
Australian harvester-makers a Protective duty
of £l6 per machine, but the Worker grimly
assures McKay, of Braybrook (Vic.), that he
will see his £l6 duty follow Lysaghts’ 30 per cent.
McKay’s is the only firm in this particular industry
that is known to have trouble with its employees,
but all the other firms in the same line are to be
ruined, if possible, in order to get level with
McKay. And what does the Labor party propose
to do for the (possibly) 4000 or 5000 men who,
along with their dependents, will suffer, in order
that it may wreak a clumsy vengeance on two em-
ployers that many of the sufferers never saw or
heard of ? The Worker throws no light on that
subject. If Labor is to wage war with certain em-
ployers, let it be waged in some more sane manner.
One method of dealing with an objectionable
employer is to levy an excise equal to the duty on
the imported article, and collect it. Then let the
firms show by their wages sheets that they are
entitled to the rebate. To do that they will have
to produce their books and prove their case up to
the hilt. That is the way to get level with
a “sweating” employer and still find work
for the operatives, who are Labor’s constituents.
With high duties and abundance of employers
the bad employer can, at the worst, be broken
up by a strike. As long as the opera-
tives have other factories to get work in,
the strike is a possible weapon, for the rival firm
that finds it can annex a business will very soon
employ the skilled workmen who have refused
to work for the sweater, and thus secure the
sweater’s trade. But if the Labor party is going
to lay it down as a rule that every industry in
which one employer proves a bad one from a
Labor standpoint is to be destroyed, there will
presently be very little Labor party.
Taxing the Mining Industry.
There is an outcry about mining machinery now,
and the Australian Parliament is implored not to
“ tax this industry.” It recalls the days when
Protection was being fought for in Victoria ; the
Paunch of those times used to have a frenzied
cartoon on the subject almost every week. But
Paunch didn’t prevail, the duties went on, and—
well, is Victoria proud of what its engineers have
helped its miners to do, or not? Anyway, no
country in the world can show a better record,
with dividends paid out of gold-stone returning
less than ljdwt. per ton —the Mines report
(1902) showed that two Bendigo mines had been
doing that remarkable thing. Equally good
have been the recent records in gold dredg-
ing, which is another branch of the industry
established under similar conditions, and worked
throughout with Australian-made machinery, de-
signed to meet special Australian requirements.
Supposing that those Bendigo, Castlemaine, and
other machinery works had not been established,
does anybody believe that it would have been possi-
ble to do the mining work that Victoria has done ?
The men who run the local works know the local
conditions ; and they build accordingly. Even
then there is hardly a mining plant which does
not call for modification or adjustment; because
not only are no two mines exactly alike,
but very few mines to-day are exactly as
they were yesterday. It is the same with
other machinery and other processes. In Sydney
lately several works managers have been charged
at the courts with committing a nuisance by pour-
ing out smoke from their chimneys. One mana-
ger, who has been fined again and again, pleads
that his co. has spent thousands on an imported
apparatus; and finally it had to cable to
Europe for an engineer to modify or adjust
the thing and make it do its work. That
sort of experience can be got every week on the
mining fields. The foreign engineer adjusts his
machine or process, and leaves; and the next
machine his firm turns out is usually built in the
same old way. It is said that there are some
machines that are not made in Australia. Then
so much the worse for the Australians who want
those machines ; and the sooner they are made in
Australia the better for those who will want
similar, though most likely not identical, machines
by-and-bye. The Victorian experience has
proved that right up to the hilt. On the other
hand, if Freecrade helped the mining industry in
N. S. Wales, the rrcti who’are now appealing to
the Australian P.' ament not to “ tax the in-
dustry” might at v~ist show where the good re-
sults of that help are. And the N.S.W. mining
industry would have been in a worse state than it
is if it hadn’t had the machinery works of pro-
tected Victoria and Queensland to draw upon,
both for new plant and for repairs.
A Superfluous Industry.
In Australia at present there exists at least one
superfluous industry. The business of whooping-
up petitions against the new Australian tariff, of
pursuing the community with a sheet of paper
and a fountain pen, and imploring it to protest
against every tariff increase, is a branch of toil
which ought to be dead and buried. And the
poor creatures who run this business—who go
about slandering the Australian workman as a
pitiful incompetent who cannot make a chair or a
billycan or anything else ; who picture the Aus-
tralian as a helpless plantigrade animal only fit to
root holes in the ground, and who ought to buy
his clothes and ironmongery and saddlery and
everything else from the exalted foreigner, the
exalted foreigner being by implication every-
thing that the wretched Australian isn’t —the
poor creatures who are hired to spread this
doctrine should be found a better job blacking
the boots of the good Australians they slander.
Every bloated parasite who has hitherto existed
by dragging foreign-made goods into this country
and selling them to the fool Australian at thrice
their export value, seems to have his special
jackal at work, tearing down, for the profit of the
said parasite, Australia’s industries. Imports,
these slanderers tell us—some of them because
they are hired to do so, and others out of
sheer love of maligning their own country—are
the be-all and end-all of existence. Nothing that
is Australian-made can possibly be any good. The
foreign workman and the foreign manufacturer
are erected into a joint joss and fetich ; wherefore
the petition-monger prowls up and down the land,
imploring all and sundry to offer up an incense of
signatures to the said Mumbo-Jumbo. And some
people will sign anything. It flatters their
vanity to be asked to sign any sort of
a public document. A certain percentage
of the community, if they were asked to sign a
petition for dragging their grandmother’s bones
out of their graves and grinding them into fer-
tiliser, would do so. Hence this continuous
stream of shriek which is pouring into the House
of Representatives. Just now preparations are
being made in Victoria to add to the stream. A
document, emanating from a Melbourne com-
mittee, has been scattered broadcast among the
music teachers of Victoria, beseeching them
to holler for the foreign piano in prefer-
ence to the Australian. The petition, after
stating that there are 5000 music teachers in
Victoria, observes that “fully seven-eighths of
the pianos are imported from abroad ” —which is an
excellent reason for hitting the foreign maker and
his Australian distributor with a heavy tax —and
complains that “ the proposed increase will tend
to lessen individuality, taste, and liberal educa-
tion . . . will seriously affect all wise efforts to
develop the musical genius of our music-loving
people, and . . . will be a serious burden to all
those engaged in music teaching.” The attitude
of the committee towards the Australian, piano—
it would, however, raise a Sheol of a disturbance
if somebody proposed to import foreign musicians
to collar its own job—is one of pronounced scorn.
And yet, if the committee makes any pretence to
logic, it ought to bow not merely to the goods, but
to the opinions of the wise and intelligent
foreigner. Let it listen, then, to what Studemund,
of Musgeove’s foreign Grand Opera Co., said
about the Australian-made pianos :
These instruments very easily hold their own in compe-
tition with European pianos, if, indeed, they do not far
surpass them, for the splendid mechanism, and the warm,
soft tone are simply astonishing.
Emil Greder, of the Royal Opera Houses of
Berlin and Leipzig, and stage-director of the
Metropolitan Opera House, New York—an autho-
rity before whom the committee, to be consistent,
should simply grovel—also testifies on behalf of
the Australian noise-box :
I have not visited, either in Germany or elsewhere, a
piano factory so completely independent in all its require-
ments. The product itself is excellent, and it is obvious
to me that it would be hard to surpass it by any imports,
because it suits the exigencies of the climate.
Fritz Rupp, and other visiting foreigners, say
the same thing, only more so; therefore it is
difficult to understand how the use of the Aus-
tralian piano, made under proper conditions of
work and wages, is going to reduce the musical
profession to a gibbering wreck. But who believes
that the music teachers have really anything to
do with the matter, so far, anyway, as this peti-
tion is concerned '? It is not they who will suffer;
but very certainly the importers will.
About Patriotism and Fat and Bill.
It is high time the Australian Labor party recon-
sidered its position, if it has any definite position
to consider, as regards immigration. So far its
attitude has been a dubious or hostile one, varied
by occasional friendly assurances, with, in most
cases, impossible conditions attached to the
assurances. When all the unemployed in the
country have been absorbed, it is understood, the
Labor party will be willing to encourage the
arrival of desirable white citizens, but as there is
never likely to be a time when everybody is em-
ployed, the inference is that the Labor party
intends to object for all time to any vigorous
immigration policy. The loafer and the incapable
and the utterly inefficient will form a sediment of
unemployed in the best of seasons, and to wait
till they are in full work at full pay before doing
anything is to wait for ever. A certain section of
the Labor party, too, seems to have no desire to
create new employment, either for the people who
are here now or for those who should be invited to
come here. It throws in its lot with the Freetrader,
the importer, and the Tory, with its enemies of the
Argus, Courier, Telegraph and Herald ; and
clamors foolishly in the cause of cheap foreign
labor. These things would matter little if Aus-
tralia had a guarantee of perpetual security.
Australia can get along in a financial sense with
things as they are. -It can leave the importer and
the great landlord undisturbed, and yet the
people who are here now can live in a sort of way.
The country would fill up to some considerable
extent insoo orlOOOyears without immigration, and
even if an ambitionless race allowed things to
slide, matters would sort themselves out somehow.
Granted unlimited time, and no violent assault
from outside or commotion within, and everything
is liable to sort itself out in a gradual kind of way.
And meanwhile the great empty spaces and the
vast quiet wildernesses are pleasant to look upon
and refreshing to the soul. There is romance in
them, and they set us composing bush symphonies
and wattle poetry, and thinking of Clajjcy of the
Overflow. But unfortunately there is no
guarantee of even ten years’ security, let
alone security for five or ten centuries. The
Sabbath calm rests on no reliable foundation.
There is a need for population to garrison
Australia, and our very existence depends
on the development of a capacity to make in our
own workshops all the things necessary for
defence. That aspect of the case is studiously
ignored by those Laborites and Labor papers
that preach the anti-immigration gospel, and the
anti-population creed, and oppose the found-
ing of industries which will make Australia
self-supporting and supply a large population
with employment—all because an enemy has told
them that there may be a temporary increase in
prices. In all their sayings and writings it is
hard to find one word about Australia and the
Australian nation in the large, patriotic, compre-
hensive sense. That great ideal of our country—
not of our country, limited in point of extent to
the bit of it one individual is using, and in point
of time to the period that individual may have a
use for it, but the ideal that would make Aus-
tralia a living entity to us, and which would lead
us to make sacrifices now if thereby we had reason
to hope that Australia would be the better for
them a hundred years hence —of such an ideal
the Labor press has about as little trace as
the Argus and its kind. The Argus considers the
moment and the bagman of the moment; the
average Labor paper considers the moment and
Bill’s wages next Saturday. The outlook of the
Argus is practically limited to the cities where
the importer is, and to the domains of the big
landlords. That of the Labor paper is wider,
because it extends as far as the last shearing shed
and cattle camp where Bill is. But one is think-
ing of the Fat of the hour, and the other of
the Bill of the hour. The love of Australia, as
apart from Fat and Bill —as the motherland
which will still be here when Fat is dead and
•Bill is dust, and whose future welfare we should
consider even unto the tenth generation of Fat
and Bill —well, in that kind of patriotism the
Bill paper is at present almost as lacking as the
Fat paper.
The Dead People at Shearlegs and the Cada-
vers in the County of Woore.
Among the worst enemies to public health in a
growing town is the person who owns a “plot ’’
in an over-crowded and officially-closed graveyard.
A certain kind of uneducated sentiment—the
corpse and worm variety of sentiment —is in his
favor, and that and a silly (and often sham)
reverence for the dust of certain ancestors rouses
him to dirt and defiance. “ It’s me family
vault,” announced an alderman, the other day ;
“me grandfather an’ me father moulder there,
and there, despite any law of man, I’ll also
moulder. Me family paid good red gold for the
plot—put the best of brick and stone in the vault
—an’ it’s agin equity an’ the rights of property to
alienate it.” The law will fine this alderinan’s
representatives £5, or perhaps £lO, when they
plant their alderman in the over-crowded worm-
hole, but the fine is regarded as merely a part of
the funeral pomp, expense, show, glory, and
advt., and it doesn’t in the least alleviate the
unwholesomeness of things. Every fresh aider-
man who is buried in the condemned city grave-
yard postpones by a few years the time when its
contents will be all dust, and when the place
can fairly be obliterated and ploughed up and dis-
infected. If the country hasn’t the courage to
make cremation compulsory it should bury its
dead far inland. N.S.W., for instance, should
"bury nobody east of (say) Forbes, and its princi-
pal State cemetery should be at Shearlegs, in the
county of Mouramba, or at Neckarboo, in the
county of Woore, with a possible extension
towards Yallock. The deceased and say two
mourners might be conveyed free by train to the
spot; the gain to the national health would be
worth it. As a set-off to the railway cost, there
would be a great saving in undertakery, for
funeral pomp would be wasted .at Shearlegs, in
Mouramba, or in the wastes of the county of
Woore. There the dead would contaminate no
water supply, for there is just about none. They
could be buried deep and wide till square leagues
of dead lay at Shearlegs or in Woore, and yet
there would be no over-crowding, and no aider-
man need be denied space for his bones or breath-
ing room for his ghost. And not only would
this arrangement make the towns more healthy,
but the constant deposit of aldermen and such
like would gradually raise the interior of the
country, and thereby improve the rainfall. Gojdr
ness knows Australia wants all the rainfall it can
get; also the lack of elevation at Shearlegs, in the
county of Mouramba, has been an evil crying to
Heaven for repair for the Devil knows how long,
and the flatness of Woore is a disgrace.
♦
The Imported Laborite.
A striking instance of how the importing canker
has eaten its way into the heart of the Australian
community can be found in the manner in which
a large section of the Laborites of this country fall
down and worship the Laborite who comes from
“abroad.” The importer of Flinders-lane or
Olarence-street is, in point of fact, more reason-
able in his adulation of the shoddy products of
foreign countries, seeing that he is well-paid for
his assertions, and makes them more or less with
his tongue in his cheek all the time. But the
Australian Labor man is sincere in his delusion,
and receives nothing for the unwisdom which im-
pels him to reverence the person who arrives from
the land where they breed lords. This type of
Labor person is ready to wax wildly indignant at
the idiot who demands that his socks shall come
from Birmingham. He works himself up into a
heat of passion when any public body sug-
gests the importation of an expert. Also he
nearly froths at the mouth when immigration is
mentioned, yet, at the same time, he almost
faw'ns on Mr. Ramsay Macdonald and Mr. Tom
Mann and Mr. Bkn Tillett. And the most
insane part of all the business is that these
same Laborites have invariably been very
small potatoes in comparison with the best
class of Australia’s own Laborites—the men who
happily hold aloof from the demonstrations.
Ramsay Macdonald was the best of the im-
ported crowd yet seen here; but, after all, Aus-
tralia saw very little of Ramsay Macdonald, and
since his return to England he has proved himself
a very unobservant individual and a man whom it
would be well for the Australian Laborites to hold
at arm’s length in any future dealings. Tom
Mann has proved himself a straight-out curse and
disaster. It is safe to say that had Mann re-
mained in England to further the cause of tem-
perance and encourage the water habit among
beer drinkers, the Labor vote at the last Federal
election would have been much higher than it
was. No ten other men supplied so much good
ammunition to Anti-Sosh and co. as did
T. Mann. As for Tillett, the long-haired soul-
ful person who gets photographed in a velvet coat,
he may be described as a Mann without a
Mann’s vigor. Tillett is a poseur pure and
simple. He is the Julius Knight of Labor.
The limelight is all for him, and had he refrained
from coming to Australia this year, the wharf
lumpers’ trouble would probably not have had to
wait until Hughes, M.H.R., came back to unde
the trouble that Benjamin T. had brought about.
Now Tillett, in his craze for notoriety, has
been taking up the good old stinking-fish anecdote
which the Tory party was forced to relinquish
a year or two ago. According to Tillett,
Australia is going to the dogs. There is just
sufficient truth in his assertion —that part
relating to monopolies—to provide him with
an excuse when the fatuousness of his story is
shown up, which can be done by the simple
process of showing the all-round advance that has
been made in wages during the past 12 months.
The fuss that is made over such men as
Macdonald, Mann, and Tillett is about as
sensible as the fuss that is made over the Non-
Honorable Augustus Mortimer, who turns up at
the backblock township with the announcement
that he is the son of the Duke of Boshterbury ;
and the Laborites who make the fuss, and are let
in, are just as deserving of what they get as the
snobbish storekeepers who cash the Hon.
Augustus’s cheques. Macdonald, Tillett, and
Mann combined would need to be multiplied by
a pretty considerable factor to raise them to the
calibre of Watson, Hughes, McGregor, Stewart,
Price or Higgs. If the Labor party possessed
the guile of the serpent, it would ask Bill Lynk
to add a paragraph to the tariff schedule, making
imported Labor advocates dutiable at £IOOO
apiece, with no drawback allowed. It makes
everybody think better of Russia to know that it
refused to admit Tillett and Mann.
Not in the Balance Sheet.
The Coroner’s verdict on the Kilmore (Vic.) rail-
way fatality practically put the blame on the
department, but left it vaguely at that. Along
train of empty trucks, drawn by a heavy “D”
engine, was travelling down an incline on the
lightly-built Kilmore-Heathcote line at 25 miles
an hour, when the tender, which was going first,
struck a loose fish-plate or a foul joint on a bridge
over the Kurkurruc Creek, and toppled over into
the gully, most of the trucks following. Driver
and fireman were killed. The inquest didn’t dis-
close half as much as it should, chiefly because
nobody informed the police of the disaster, where-
fore nobody examined the line and the debris until
long after everything had been put in apple-pie
order, and all traces of neglect or carelessness, if
there were any, had been covered up. The
Coroner made some insulting remarks about the
habit Tait’s subordinates have of holding an in-
quiry about their own conduct, reporting their own
conduct as quite correct, and then proceeding as
if everybody were satisfied and nobody were dead.
This Coroner, for one, wasn’t satisfied. He
The Voice of W.A.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The new tariff will cost the absentee owners of
Westralian gold-mines, it is alleged, £50,000 a year—
assuming that these absentees insist on buying inferior
mining machinery in England, and sending it out to the
big Westralian mines, instead of getting better machinery
made in Australia.— The Bulletin (26/9/’O7).
The ’Groper secesh movement is the revolt of the ex-
travagant State incapables In other words, it
is Incapacity rising in revolt against Ability, and Wild
Extravagance throwing clods at Economy on a charge of
Prodigality.— lbid.
Now this is the voice of Mulgaland, sent east
herewith to say
That the loud and violent ’G-roper band are not
all W. A. !
From the dusty fields a cheer goes forth, likewise
a friendly hail—
And we stretch a hand to the south and north, in
spite of the ’Gropers’ wail!
From the furthest camp in the thirsty West, from
the sand and the saltbush plains,
There’s a question rings with fiery zest: “ Who
is this Doctor ’Aynes ?
He’s only a sawbones down in Perth, where the
Fat man lives at ease.
Ho, they reckon they own the blessed earth, do
the great Six Families !
But a Toilers’ Party is here as well; and we wish
to make it clear
That, no matter how much the Mongers yell, we
are strong Australians here ! ”
Where the roasters drip and the charges burst—
where they chase the lonely ’.weight,
There’s a cry sent up, “ Australia First, and blow
the suffering State ! ”
From the farthest stope and the deepest winze—
from the Range to the Golden Mile,
Where the ball-mills crash and the cable spins to
the top of the roaring pile,—
There’s a shout goes forth to the distant East-
yea, throbbing across the Bight,
Goes a message of faith and hope increased,
“ Westralia’s heart is right !
Build the tariff-wall, and build it high, and make
the courses sure,
And pay no heed to the ’Gropers’ cry, or the wail
of Newton Mooke !
They may ramp and rage on the coastal fringe;
but we wish to make it clear
That no matter how much they weep and cringe,
we are good Australians here ! ”
“St. George’s Terrace isn’t W.A.—it’s merely a
thoroughfare
Where the Wild Oat stinks like a Judgment Day
and importers have their lair.
Westralia’s heart—hear it beating now—lies far
beyond the ’Cross;
And the Weld Club push and its well-loved Ohow,
are only the dust and dross.
Where the rock-drills thud—where the skips of
ore are raised from the furthest plat,
Westralia stirs. Where the stampers roar, and not
in the halls of Fat,
May you hear the beat of the Nation’s heart, may
you catch the tones of song
That forth in a chant of gladness start from the
souls of a people strong !
There Westralia lives with her stalwart ones ; and
we wish to make it clear
That w r e are our country’s faithful sons, and we’re
good Australians here ! ”
WESTRALIA.
TITAN STRONG.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day —free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
wanted to know, among other things, why heavy
engines were used on lines for whioh they weren t
suitable ; why the department persisted in putting
three men to keep in repair about 20 miles of
line ; why gangers were set to examine a line on
tricyoles when it was notorious that no line could
be inspected properly that way. But the depart-
ment airily declined to admit itself the accused
person, and the only witnesses it offered were
sponsible employees; so the matter got no further.
The direct responsibility lies on the policy of
cutting down working expenses to the bone, of
giving gangers lengths that they obviously cannot
look after properly, of running heavier engines
than the lines are built for —in fact, of doing the
mean things that “ make the railways pay.
There is, of course, a way of making the
railways pay—as they should —without doing
any of these things; but that proper way
isn’t taken because of the cadgers who are eter-
nally demanding lower freights, cheaper fares,
the unprofitable carriage of stock, seed wheat,
etc., and because of that other class which insists
that everything must be carried hundreds of
miles to and from Melbourne at no greater cost
than would be involved in carrying it half the
distance to and from the nearest out-port, Tait
is “making the railways pay,” and as he isn t
allowed to make them pay one way, the system
makes them pay in another way—and the two
dead men at Kurkurruc Creek are part of
the other way, though they won’t appear in the
balance-sheet.
The Quaint Logic of the Freetrade Laborite.
A MOST justifiable letter from “ F.C.” :
Heaven alone knows the real motive that actuated
Labor member Hugh Mahon, of Ooolgardie, in moving
the reduction of the duty on imported sugar from 6s. to
4s. per cwt. He told the House that his idea was to
obtain cheaper sugar for the Westralian gold-miners, but
not even his most infatuated supporters are likely to
swallow that assertion. For the first plank in the plat-
form on which Maiion was elected is the Maintenance
of a White Australia, and the first effect of the reduc-
tion of duty that he tried to bring about would be the
throwing out of work of several hundreds or thousands
of white Australian sugar-workers in favor of the nigger-
grown product of the Java cane-fields. That a pledged
Labor representative should deliberately scheme to throw
into unemployment a multitude of his fellow-Australians
in order to give the work to the cheap colored workers
of Java is unthinkable. Mahon— pledged Laborite—
the barracker for black labor! Mahon, the advo-
cate of low wages! The thing is unimaginable.
Yet he did it! So the only conclusion possible is that
Mahon is Foreign-trader first and Laborite afterwards.
Apparently, it is nothing to Mahon that the sugar indus-
try has been built up from the stage when, in 1902,
Queensland produced 31,688 tons of sugar by white labor,
to the stage of 1906, when it grew 149,442 tons.
Australia’s sugar requirements are now met by
its own production. Sugar is an industry, and
a large one, for it employs some 30,000 white Austra-
lians (besides 7900 kanakas, though these are decreasing) ;
the acres cultivated by white labor increased from 54,424
in 1904 to 116,520 in 1907. But all this is nothing to
Mahon. His god is the Foreign-trader’s god—Cheap-
ness ; not the genuine cheapness of the good article,
that employs his fellow-countrymen, that circulates
money and enriches the country; but the spurious
cheapness that comes of sweated toilers, of long hours, of
nigger labor. The logioal corollary to Mahon’s demand
would be the replacement of the Coolgardie miners by
indented Chows or coolies. Is Mahon game to advocate
that? And how long would it take the Labor
party to throw him out if he did? Herein Mahon
has been taken as the text, but he is not the only offender
by any means—not the only provincialist Foreign-trader
posing as an Australian Laborite. There are several Repre-
sentatives and several Senators equally traitorous to Aus-
tralia, equally narrow-minded. Several of the items of the
Bounties Bill have been rejected in the Upper House solely
through the votes of Senators—notably Westralian Sena-
tors —whose States had no present chance of participating
in the bonuses for those particular items. That these
men have no right or business in the Australian Parlia-
ment is obvious; they should be in the little local
Houses or in the suburban municipal councils. They
are on a par with the Queensland representative
Archer, the quaint pseudo-Protectionist who strove and
voted to wipe out the duty on wire-netting—which didn’t
affect his constituency or his State—but pleaded earnestly
for the retention of the sugar duty, which did. But, at
least, Archer makes no pretence of being the special repre-
sentative of the workers; Mahon and the Westralian
Senators do.
«.
G. Reid at the “Monster Tariff Demonstra-
tion ” in Sydney Town Hall: —
It is really a question whether the more hardy condi-
tions under which the primary industries have been
established are not, in the long run, the best conditions
under which to start the manufacturing industries.
Let’s have a look at those “ hardy conditions.”
The wool industry was established on the basis of
free land and very cheap convict labor. The wheat-
growing industry was nurtured under the same
“ hardy conditions.” The stock-raising industry
was set going by free land, cheap convict labor,
and Government importations of stock ; and in
1830, after over 30 years of this “hardy” treat-
ment, the stock-raising industry was “ coddled ”
by a duty placed “ on all beef and pork imported
into the colony.” And on top of the initial
free land and cheap labor the farming industry
is buttressed to this day by special railway rates
so low as to amount to an act of charity, by free
seed wheat in bad years, Government supplies of
wire-netting at specially low prices, exemption
from industrial laws and from the obligation to pay
fair wages for fair hours, cheap money supplied by
Government banks, instruction by Government
experts, etc. Also until this year it was propped
up by complete exemption from local rates (it now
gets huge subsidies instead,). Then N.S. W. began
to protect wheat and all other kinds of grain by
Customs duties as far back as 1840. In fact,
if the Australian Parliament would give the
manufacturer to-day even half the assistance that
the N.S.W. farmer has been receiving for the best
part of a century, that manufacturer would be a
proud and happy man.
Fruit-growers who, as a class, are usually hardy
mendicants on State bounty, have been holding a
Federal conference at Adelaide, sturdily demand-
ing Soslx for themselves, and bitterly complain-
ing of the other fellow’s Sosh. One extract from
the debates: —
Mr. B. T. McKay (Queensland) spoke in opposition to
the bonus to the sugar industry, which had enabled
growers in Queensland to pay 30s. a week and food to
laborers in the canefields. The curse of the bonus
system was that while it had made the sugar industry
flourish, it had caused a prohibitive advance in wages all
round.
The sugar “bonus” could not get a better recom-
mendation than this—that it stands in the way of
the fruit-grower getting sweated labor. But does
McKay, of Queensland, know what sort of a
“bonus” the sugar industry really gets? Supposing
it werb enacted that oranges should pay ; a excise
of £1 per hundred dozen —the excise to be reduced
to 10s. if the oranges were grown by white labor.
Would that please McKay ? Would he call - it a
“bonus”? Yet that is exactly the sort of
“bonus” the sugar-grower gets.
The Sydney Telegraph now patronises the
N.S.W. iron industry and “extends” it a hearty
welcome. But Australia has no use for the kind
of paper that fights all it knows to prevent the
establishment of new industries, and then, when
an industry arrives in spite of all its treacherous
efforts, holds out the hand of welcome on the
doorstep and beams a greasy radiance. The Tele-
gbaph is fighting hard now to prevent the pro-
gress of the N.S.W. wire-netting industry, furni-
ture industry, and so on; but when they grow great
and strong despite its efforts, it will doubtless ex-
tend them also the damp fat hand on the door-
step and say it is glad they came. The proceed-
ing suggests the undertaker who has been done
out of a job, shaking the hand of the corpse that
didn’t die, and saying how pleased he is to see the
deceased alive. Australia wants men who will
fight the battle of Australian industry for all they
are worth even while it looks like a losing battle ;
the traitor who fights in the foreigner’s ranks
against Australia so long as the foreigner seems to
have a chance, and then bolts for home by a
circuitous track to be in time to wave a flag and
celebrate Australia’s victory, is of no use to man
or dog, and he isn’t of much value to a caterpillar.
♦
Co-operation has looked such a nice tame animal
that for years past the Fat employer has patted
it on the head and said “Good dog,” and alleged
that it wasn’t a bit like that monster Socialism.
But the other day, when the Melbourne master
bakers tried to turn the minimum wage into the
maximum wage, it was the nice tame animal that
kicked them in the pocket, and routed them
promptly ; wherefore the Fat employer has begun
to reconsider matters. He isn’t, however, pre-
pared to swallow his previous blessings all at
once; he adopts the old gag, and says that he
cordially approves of co-operation, but not that
sort of co-operation. According to the Employers’
Federation, the outrageous thing is “ the combi-
nation of the Co-operative Stores find the Trades
Hall,” which it declares is “ breaking the law and
flouting the public.” Naturally it doesn’t mention
precisely where the law was fractured. All that
the Co-operative Stores did was to detect an
opening for a baker who paid good wages, and it
jumped into the opening and supplied the bread.
The fact is that when the Fat employer affection-
ately patted the animal on the head he never
dreamed that the beast would develop any busi-
ness acumen—and that's what’s the matter with
the Employers’ Federation ; it finds that the
animal isn’t the helpless calf it looked like.
-
In the Myerson (Sydney) bankruptcy case, the
Official Assignee, Mr. Harrington Palmer, has
so far acted with courage and acuteness. It is,
without a doubt, due to his promptness and per-
tinacity that the creditors will receive a fair divi-
dend out of the bankrupt estate ; and he is to be
commended for making an effort to recover
from the solicitors who defended the Myer-
SONS, some of the huge fees they received.
But his courage should not stop there.
Two solicitors have been brought before
the Bankruptcy Court, and roughly examined.
Is G. Reid to be subjected to the same ordeal ?
If there was anything that called for criticism
or question in the actions of Mr. Levy and Mr.
Abigail, there is, at least, as much in the case of
Mr. Reid, whose share of the Costs represented a
sum which, to the lay‘mind, seems enormous, and
who, according to the allegations so far before the
public, received his share under rather curious
circumstances. G. Reid, at least, owes an ex-
planation to the public; and the public won’t be
satisfied until that explanation is heard. Perhaps
not then. There will be grave dissatisfaction if there
is found to Vie one rule of the Bankruptcy Court
for two small-fry solicitors and another for a K.C.
and a big political fish.
Arthur Griffith, M.LA., proposes that the
N.S.W. State Legislature should take a referen-
dum re its own abolition, and the transfer of all
its powers to the Australian Parliament. Apart
from the question of economy, and the blessed
abolition of State Frights, and the settlement of
the railway and debt consolidation problems, and
many other advantages, there is one special reason
just now why the abolition of State Legislatures
should be considered. A population of 4,000,000
odd can’t, as a regular thing, supply brains enough
for seven capable Legislatures. Just now the
country is in a mental backwash. Barton,
O’Connor, Higgins, Isaacs, Playford, and
Turner have gone out of politics. Kingston is
disabled. Brave old Bill Lyne is visibly wearing
out. Deakin’s health is shaky. Watson is
giving up the game in disgust. Yet few conspicuous
new men are coming to the front. And in the
six State Parliaments Kidston of Queensland
andPRiCE of S.A. are almost the only notables on
hand just now. Bent is more a remarkable
than a notable. Wade is hardly known yet.
Evans and Newton Moore are known—that is
the worst thing about them. If all the outstand-
ing political talent that Australia can show were
concentrated in one Parliament and paid at the
rate of £IOOO or £I2OO a year to induce it to stay
there, it might make a very good Parliament even
in the most backwashy times. (Of course, with
Railways, Lands, etc., added to the Federal
responsibilities, it might be necessary to increase
the number of Federal Ministers to 12, but that is
a detail.) Then the country could be divided into
about 50 States, with something like a glorified
gaud-mayor at the head of each. Mayors (gaud
and otherwise) are plentiful enough.
♦
Apart from every other consideration, the S.
Aus. Railway report for the past year shows
what appalling waste is involved in running the
Great Northern line as far as Oodnadatta and
stopping there, in poor country, in the middle of
Australia. For the last 80 miles there are five
stations ; and this was their traffic for the year :
Oodnadatta, 1174 tons; Mt. Dutton, 51; Alge-
buckina, 20 ; Warrina, 235 ; Edwards Creek, 78.
They run the last 80 miles, then, for a 12-months
total of 1558 tons ; and the 80 miles before you
get to the last 80 miles isn’t much better. The
poor traffic that way explains why Premier Price
suggests that the transcontinental line shouldn’t
follow the Oodnadatta track, but should try to
strike better country eastward. After leaving
Hergott the present line sweeps westward —for no
better reason than that the telegraph line swept
that way before it.
«.
In twelve months hence rabbits will be as
scarce asthe Dodo. Tyree, the inventor of the Tyree Spray,
has just brought out another notion for killing rabbits
automatically. On a thousand acre paddock, one man
with twenty machines will kill every rabbit in their
burrows in a few weeks, without work, and at a small
expense. A Government test was made at Randwick last
week. The whole of the rabbits in the burrows were
killed in four minutes. Any man on the land can test
the process at very little expense. Get one machine
(price £4) to experiment with. For full particulars write
Tyree Limited, 314 George Street, Sydney. We guarantee
success.*
Greeley Jenkins’ job as South Australian
Agent-General will end next June, and the push-
ing Yankee from Susquehanna county, Pennsyl-
vania, isn’t likely to be asked to stay on. Of
course, there are hints that Price is getting
measured for the Agent-General’s clothes; but
Ministers say there isn’t any more truth in those
hints than in the other ones that Treasurer Peake
thinks the vacant Auditor-General’s boots are just
his size.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ The Female Swindler.”
Theatre Royal “Brewster’s Millions.”
Her Majesty’s “Tom Moore.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Great Rescue.”
Bijou “ The Rogues of the Turf.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Go.
Athen.hum Hall Edreka Stockade Pictures.
Olympia Wirth Bros.’Circus.
“The Southern Cross” is still shining
with a fair amount of radiance at Sydney
Criterion, but it is to fade from the sky of bellow-
drama to-morrow (Friday) night, at such an
hour as will enable patrons to head off comfort-
ably the last homeward tram. On the Saturday
following, “The Female Swindler” will present
herself. This particular malefactor gave a sample
of her nefarious work here half a dozen years
agone; and the public, which loves stage crime
better than alcohol, accorded her a sufficient
measure of approval at the time to convince
Bilanderson that a revival would be good business.
** * *
The Mervale-Beatty mummers shake the
dust of Sydney from their buskins after Friday
next, and hie them to Melbourne. Thereafter
their places at the Royal will be taken by
“Brewster’s Millions,” with Kingston in the
name part. A pretty daughter of Australia’s only
Titheradge, aided and abetted by others of con-
siderable merit, will hold the fort. No incon-
siderable portion of the fort will be held by Mrs.
Brough, whose return to active grease-paint will
be hailed with acclamation by all who remember
her. And their name is Legion—or Smith, which
is j ust as numerous.
* -X *
With what Homeric and J unoesque laughter
the outside-sized pair, Rumford and Butt, must
shake the walls of “ Fairlight,” their hired local
Olympus, every night when they return from their
concerts 1 Laughter directed at the critics. All
critical Sydney—all Sydney that listens to Juno
Butt with a trained and eclectic ear—goes away
firing shafts (tipped with rue) at her as an artist; at
her limited repertoire, and the “cheapness” and
“ popularity’’-theory. But the lady’s huge and
generally rich volume of voice, and her “tripe”
programmes, and her imposing personality have
made her season a bigger boom than those of
Melba and Orossley combined. She’s got the
average audience by the ear, and her average
audiences are also of outside size. So
may she laugh at the critics, and over
critical Sydney cast her shoe, as mentioned in
Holy Writ. On Thursday, the 24th, the mated
singers will warble at a matinee, which closes the
Sydney season. Then they go to Brisbane, and
about Cup time will again appear in Melbourne.
** * *
Anderson’s Wonderland by the Sea, out at
Bondi (Sydney), nightly grows more popular, if
such a thing be possible. When one leaves the
ordinary and now work-a-day electric tram at the
city’s gates, he leaves the work-a-day world be-
hind, and enters an enchanted realm, where any-
thing is liable to happen to him. (One unfortunate
man actually went in single and came out married.)
He gets into places where gravitation is sus-
pended, and where he whirls through space up-
side down without falling out; into awful recesses
where fat ladies fall on him, and hurl him down
on top of bony ones, and out of which he struggles
with four or five assorted samples of beauty hanging
on to him. A new sensation is the “Rivers of the
World” illusion —wherein one gets into a real
canoe with real water, and is whirled in and out
of light and darkness till he has traversed im-
measurable distances. With the right girl for a
partner, it is very fine. The Wild West show,
which is run bv Captain McCloud, formerly
of Wirths’ Circus, is a thing which
appeals to the heart of the horsey Aus-
tralian. The Captain is unusually handy
with a lasso ; but, somehow, writer has his doubts
about the efficacy of that machine for catching
wild horses. A new company is performing at
the King’s pavilion, and the variety of side shows
and entertainments, including the open-air skating
rink, is too numerous for mention, let alone
description.
iK- * * -X-
Till the “ Blue Moon ” rises at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, on November 2, Andrew
Mack will warble through some of his old parts
again, winding up next week with “ Tom Moore.”
All things considered, it is best to remember Mr.
Mack as Mr. Moore, so the people who see him
last will see him best.
* . * * &
Mrs. Tom Fitzgerald’s Circus is doing
good business on tour in this State. The country-
district inhabitant had got the idea into his intel-
lectual attic that all the valuable beasts, birds and
tricks and turns and properties belonging to the
late combination, Fitzgerald Brothers, had been
disposed of by auction. But this idea should
be dusted out of the country-district man’s
attic. It is erroneous, and has no more
right there than has a sparrow or a field mouse in
his whiskers. It was only some of the surplus
from the late Mr. Dan Fitzgerald’s portion of the
Australian show that was sold. Mr Tom Fitz-
gerald took the bulk of the “ plant” with him on
his last trip to India (leaving behind him only
what was practically useless), after the disband-
ment of “Dan’s” combination. It is still Fitz-
gerald’s Circus. Mrs. Tom retained her late
husband’s professional goods and stock, and the
plucky young woman intends to make a well-
known name stand out again as high as Kosciusko.
* *
The new people at Sydney Tivoli are
people upon whom The Bulletin has, at divers
times and places, poured the oil of approval.
Chief among them is Rhodesia, who was the
dainty j ugglerina of a successful Fitzgerald circus
season ; and Seeley and West will be remembered
also, after five years, for their quaint clowning,
interrupted by Seeley’s melody. Both turns add
something besides length to the bill. The
Molassos continue their graceful whirling dance,
and Hayman and Franklin, though their Yankee
Hebrew business isn’t quite as striking as it was
in their first sketch, still show themselves very
fine artists.
## * *
Beer and the Circus ! Since the great
Achilles instituted games in honor of his dear
cobber, Patroclus, the small boy and his gran’dad
have always delighted in a show with sawdust,
and horse, and caged -• tiger, and danger in it.
Wirth Bros.’ Circus has now drifted round this
continent for 27 years; and at the opening in
Melbourne, on Saturday night, of the Olympia
(that “ mighty mammoth monster,” etc., play-
house recently erected on the Yarra bank), Wirth,
in his preliminary speech, announced that his
mission was “to educate the young, and to show
the power of the human mind over brute crea-
tion.” Hen. Weedon, the gaud-mayor, also
spoke. A flashlight, and the band blared. A grand
procession dazzled in a blaze of Asiatic splen-
dor. They passed—gaily-upholstered elephants,
Thibetan goats, educated camels, uneducated
aldermen, and other Sacred Cattle ; round and
round the ring—horses, ponies, kicking mules,
Boadicea in her tin chariot, Hindus, Afghans,
Maoris, acrobats, clowns, jugglers. Ave Caesar !
They passed before Augustus, lolling magnifi-
cently in his purple pen, and Augustus was hailed
disrespectfully by urchins as “ Weedy,” and ex-
horted to “ git work.” It was amazing ! It was
mayoral!! It was the Circus ! ! !
9 m * ■*
The Human Butterfly, Marizles Wirth,
started to dance the serpentine on horseback, but
suddenly floated into the empyrean (supported by
wires) above the amazed heads of the congrega-
tion. Walhalla, the funny story man, Heller and
Dummy, made their comic entree—unchanging in
their acrobatics, fadeless in their jokes. Alas!
’Tis we who fade and change. Jumbo, the only
Australian-born elephant, stood on his head.
There were a lot of elephants. They pervaded
things—grave, grotesque creatures that suggested
the Punic Wars, the Roman Triumphs, all the
age, vastness, and mystery of India and Ethiopia.
One may doubt if they are fulfilling Nature’s holy
plan by attempting to cakewalk, to Chicago tunes,
before the City Fathers. Bengal tigers springing
on horseback ; the goat in a den of comic lions ;
the lion and lamb lying down together, aiso
displayed the power of the human mind to accom-
plish the preposterous. Amid a large assortment of
gladiatorial eccentricities, an outstanding feature
was the intensely dramatic Maori Haka and War
Dance. Some philosophers find in pantomime
the origin of the drama ; and for the expression of
elemental passion—frenzy, blood lust, anticipa-
tion of fight and feast —nothing cpuld be more vivid
than the rhythmic movements of these Maoris,
“ filled ” with Tangaroa, or Jeroboam, or some
such war god. Other leading turns were the
balancing act of the Jap, Sampedi Osado, some-
thing of an artist in his line ; the ingenious foot
juggling of Hubet Tomaso; the “corde elas-
tique ” fantasia of H. Pat. Lloyd ; the sky-rocket-
ing of the Monarchs of the Air, the five Flying
Herberts—not to mention many quaint zoological
specimens kept in the backyard.
*# * *
Bill Ironbark and his family and its aristo-
cratic fiancees still hold a winning hand in the
game that is being played at Melbourne Royal.
Blandolt’s remarkably successful season ends on
Friday week, when he bids an affectionate fare-
well to his Faithful Public for a longer space than
usual. The Faithful Pub. is showing a proper
appreciation of its approaching loss by filling
every seat and standing three-deep at the back.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s, ‘ ‘ The Bri-
gadier Gerard” will have ceased to run his
blustering, blowing career through one adventure
after another by the time this appears in print.
The Brigadier and the Julius Knight season were
advertised to end together on Wednesday.
George Musgrove’s opera co. looms, like a dark,
angry, thunderous cloud, on the rim of the far
horizon of November 2.
** * *
Cellier’s dear old-world “Dorothy” held
the boards at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) on
Saturday night with all its soft harmony of music
and peaceful old-fashioned wealth of ballad. It
is such a delightfully rounded little opera, with a
quaint restfulness about its improbable situations,
and its courteous nobles, and court ladies, and
arcadian peasants, and hop-pickers. The singing
was something to marvel at. Florrie Young and
Roberts and Alma Barber and Arthur Crane in
quartette made people feel as if they had struck a
forest at bird-rise. Harry Sherwood Crane was
rather sombre in soli, but Roberts and Florrie
Young sang their melodies most satisfactorily,
and the house simply bailed up the opera, bush-
ranger fashion, until Dorothy Bantam gave treble
encore to her sun rise “Tally-ho” song. Squire
Bantock Bantam shared liberally in the vocal
glories. Lauri and Miss Clifton got full allowance
of applause and delighted guffaw for their
buffoonery as Lurcher and Mrs. Privett.
“Dorothy” gives place on Saturday to the new
“Girlsof Gottenberg.”
** * *
Excellent scenic arrangements and the
verdant “Colleen Bawn” make one of the best
productions Melbourne Bijou has seen for some
time. The piece skurries along amid yells from
Irish voices “on high,” and the approval of the
“ bob ” multitude in Olympus is unbounded. The
first scene in Killarney, with its misty blue and
green of lake and land, and a lonely hut on the cliffs
with the signal-light flashing, is a fine introduction.
The villain in chief—Hardress Cregan Sweeney —
makes a deal o’ trouble for the sweet little Colleen
Bawn, Eily O’Connor (Beatrice Holloway was
never better than she is in this part), and things
are helped along considerably by the mother vil-
lain (Miss Ida Gresham), who possesses a voice that
should be a fortune in bellowdraina—it is con-
trolled so munificently bootward. John Hesford,
the parish priest, wanders through the play with
his upper parts clothed in reverend garniture, and
his nether limbs sporting jockey-boots, and an
atmosphere of solemnity enfolds him like a
mantle. He brings down the house with em-
phatic speeches “I’d like to see the
Law that can make a priest reveal the
secrets of Heaven ! ” and other such remarks.
Jefferson Taite, as attorney Corrigan, patters out
Andrew-Maek-like speeches, and always turns up
with a bound at the right moment. Nothing
could be much better than Miss Holloway’s pre-
sentation of the part of the Colleen—a sweet
young Irish girl, loved by the city villain, but
scorned as a peasant. The intensity of the last
two acts hangs round the supposed murder of
Eily O’Connor. In the last act the deep-vomed
mother of the gay young villain is just offering
her wrists for the irons if they will take her life
instead of her son’s, when the supposedly-mur-
dered maiden steps out of the sunset at the back
of the stage with the dearest smile and brogue,
and everything ends pleasantly.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House the same
worthy folk create laughter, and the self-same
unworthy ones provide protean boredom. The
Geraldos and the Whiteleys still do their astound-
ing stunts successfully enough, and a film of the
Dieppe motor race is an entertaining incitement
to furious drmng on the part of anyone who can
borrow a friend’s motor, or an enemy’s. Eileen


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Kates Ohaeqed.
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Lyons and Ernest Fitts raise their voices in banal
ballads, and this is about the sum of human enjoy-
ment just now provided by Mr. ’Enry Rickards.
** * *
Adelaide Royal is closed again, after a _
concert or two by the Perth Band. The Hippo-
drome has finished the story of Caloola’s Gup-
year, and has descended upon a Kelly drama.
The Tivoli has a bright programme, with the rifle
expert, McDonald, prominent in it. The “ Tin
Can Band ” kiddies are moving round the suburbs
now, and the Liedertafel Society has given a
concert. But the most successful show _of the
week has been an ambulance demonstration that
crowded the Exhibition. The military were pro-
minent in it, but a special interest was shown in
the police as they treated themselves and each
other for Torn Uniform, and Insulted Behavior,
and other complaints to which the Force is liable.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“T. O’Fipp”: Whenever I hear Clara Butt singing I
feel that she deserves to succeed to the title of Cautious
Clara, once the property of the craft commanded by
Captain Cuttle’s friend, Bunsby. What would happen if
a certain amount of rein were not kept on that voice ?
Surely there would be a variation of the tragedy of an old
Bulletin story, in which a great organ note brought a
Town Hall down on the audience. The organ would not
be needed in Clara’s case.
THE BIBLE’S USE FOR DEFENCE PURPOSES.
The Bishop of Carpentaria says the aborigines in Northern Australia could be Christianised and civilised,
and utilised as a means of aiding in the defence of the country.—S. M. Herald.
“ Wreck” : Witnessed “ The Great Rescue’’from behind
the scenes one evening last week The night was re-
not- fraiiiMQw'ctfftinn B p pnp \ RinnH Rpdfnrd his son
“ , “ 2 nn in the real ea'r iust in tfme to see
“the 'Ur Z
• , i •„„„ mv /-»v!t- I moi momonf fivi'ivpd Tbp
?ewlih o 'eraser anti n" as iZr advance agent
oee,?nfeH h tbe board’s ha!here thevcornel” he
BlaVd on tlw'boxAeat
pumping her violently’in front. The situation was
pregnant with possibilities. Anything might happen,
Meanwhile, the atmosphere was getting strained. I was
directly opposite and above them, and the expression on
Bland’s face belied his name. Suddenly, without any
warning, the “ immobile ” charged across the stage, and
pulled up dead in front of the footlights. That was right
enough; but how Bland, amidst the cheers of the audi-
ence, stepped off that car with a smile and jest on his lips
baffles me to this day. It was the quickest thing in
lightning changes of facial expression I ever saw or
heard of?
, . . . ~ ,
«v lany V, e to b ®. pl ji ov c ! de ( . d
at the Wimmens Exhibition. Tableaux of all sorts
are on the bill. Copies of pictures Burne-Jones for
choice—are to be represented by beautiful living models,
Special scenery and backgrounds have been painted by
distracted scenic artists, who are trying to execute the
orders of fifteen fussy women at once. Different com-
mittees are to arrange the tableaux on alternate nights,
so every young woman who owns a headpiece ike a bush-
fire, a long neck like Alice through the Looking-glass
after she had eaten the mushroom, a flat chest and no
hips, had better look after herself, or one of the women s
committees will mark her for its own, drag her up to the
Exhibition and stick her into an erection something be-
tween a picture frame and a Punch and Judy show. And
there, with three inches of make-up on her face and with
blue on her eyelids like the macaws in the Royal Park,
she will pose for a giddy three minutes in the rays of the
wicked limelight as an alleged Burne-Jones. And that
will be something to tell her children in the winter
pvpnimrs ”
" ’
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, a Bananaland singer now in England,
revives memories of the great Oarandini family. She has
been singing in a quartette with Mrs. Stokes, Mrs. Adams,
and Mr. Beau Hannen. Mrs. Stokes was Marie, and Mrs.
Adams was Lizzie Oarandini; and the Bananalander is a
daughter of Mrs. Palmer, whose mother was another
Oarandini.
“Pepe”(from Auckland, M.L.): Mrs. Alida Loman,
the Dutch soprano, has been giving a few concerts here
under the management of Mr. Benno Scherek. Her voice
is peculiarly sweet, and beautiful with the freshness of
youth. She sings English, French, Dutch, German, and
Italian songs, and very dainty and charming they are,
too. Her English is uncommonly good, an occasional
“ h ” dropped here and there, and an extra “ s ” put on,
with an occasional mix up between “is ” and “has ” are
the only signs of her foreign training and birth. But it
sounds very pretty anyway. Mrs. Teresita Carreiio-
Tagliapietra, solo pianiste, and her husband, the tenor
Eustace Blois, supported Mrs. Loman. His voice is a
robust tenor, and Auckland being his first public appear-
ance, he labored under the disadvantage of stage fright.
Carreno Tagliapietra suffers by comparison with her
famous mother, but she plays well and looks picturesque
coming on and going off, holding her skirt with hoi h
hands in front, and her head thrown well back. The
concerts were a treat of a class which seldom comes this
way, and, sad to say, the attendance was wretched. All
our recognised musical people were conspicuous by
their absence, for Mrs. Loman came without any boom-
ing, and Scherek made the mistake of advertising “ popu-
lar prices and popular music.” The recognised, musical
people hate popular prices and detest popular music.
“T.1.F.”: “Mario’s" idea (B. 3/10/’O7) as to Blanche
Arral being identical with Emma Calve does not seem
tenable, unless the singing lady is a mahatma, or a
variant of Boyle Roche’s notorious bird. Calvd’s row
with the tenor in Saxony happened towards the end of
December, 1906, within a few days of the time when
Herold Bassett sought to leave Adelaide for Maoriland
with his Arral, and was delayed by financial stresses. Still
another Arral identification is fluttering round, about as
likely or unlikely as the rest, to the effect that, some
years ago, the vocalist was an Australian girl, well up in
French and in singing, who was governess on various
N.S.W. stations. Personally, I fancy that, after all, the
mysterious Mrs. Arral may possibly just be Mrs. Arral.
“0.P.”: Veteran George Rignold’s engagement with
Bland Holt for “ The Bondman ” led to his engagement
with Miss Georgie Coppin, the dancer, who pirouetted in
the second act of the Oaine play, and now George has
gaily accepted the part of bondman till death do them part.
G.R. had made up his mind that his retirement was to be
permanent, but manager Holt lured him back to the
boards, and—well, “ one thing leads to another,” as the
song says.
Who is the greatest violinist living ? Not the mightily-
advertised Kubelik, whom Australia is promised next
year, by long and many chalks. Ysaye, perhaps ; but
there is another, Fritz Kreisler, of whom nine out of ten
people in the Commonwealth have barely heard, and he
is probably a greater than Ysaye. Joachim wrote only a
month before his death, marvelling at the playing of this
wonderful youth, and Huneker and Symons, two of the
best musical critics that write in English to-day, put
him in a class with Joachim.
Hall Caine’s new version of “The Christian,” just pro-
duced at London Lyceum, is a sermon. His preface to
the printed play admits that it was re-written to denote
“an opportunity of speaking in a popular way to a popu-
lar audience on the problem of the fallen woman.” So
Polly Love’s part now has more prominence, and the
Baby comes in to be moralised over, and Canon Wealthy
talks more cant than ever, and Father Lamplugh (who
runs a really attractive Refuge, with “ electric lights,
music, singing and dancing, to fight the soul-destroying
markets with their own weapons”) becomes a leading
character. On the other hand, a Happy Ending is
provided, for the play now closes with the great “ Kiss
me, John!” scene—where Glory’s hair and the curtain
came down together. Alice Crawford, of Bendigo, is the
new Glory.
‘‘Snell” : Having carefully examined Julius Knight’s
audiences at Melbourne Princess s this season I
maids, nursegirls, and sentimental seamstresses. The
voung person has not yet elected a successor to the Starry
Superbusis certainly
without} her now-an-evenmg. But the old maid and the
middle-aged matron are true to Marcus Superfluous, and
about two-thirds of his patrons now are made up of
wetreS’ Ibandonmen. o, preten-
JulluB hirHself ■rirh the knowledge
that he now appeals to a riper judg .
‘ Micawber : Have lately noticed a great many photos
of a very large woman, a man, and several kids. The
pictures are exhibited in shop windows. Sometimes the
man is missing from the group, or vice versa, but the
kids are always there. I think the woman must be an
advertisement for Somebody s Food, as she looks so big
and strong. A person told me her name was Cigar Butt
(or something like it), and that the kids were hers ; but
that’s ridiculous—a big woman like her would have more
kids. Who is this Miss Clara Stump, anyhow ?
Many sites for the projected new Melbourne theatre
have been called, and at length one is chosen. The
intention is to build in Russell-street, south of Bourke-
gj.reefc on tbe gite OCOU pi ed by the building that was
formerly the home of the Young Men’s Christian Associ-
ati bufc which has been a sporting club for some years
The theatre plans take in some neighboring pro-
perfcies an d the possessors, if not the proprietors, of the
g ndi ’ wi n probably be Bland Holt and William
Anders £ n> Tbe ,site is convenient, being adjacent to all
trains, and right in the heart of the city. What will
happen to about half the theatres in Melbourne, if another
dr o U „ht hits Tommy Bent’s abounding prosperity in the
id j a sub j e ct of sad conjecture, but the new
builder ’ s are resol J ve d not to think about it.
, .. . ... „
A New York paper states that there is
Chester, Connecticut (U.S.A.), an who claims to
Charles Blondin, the Hero of a P . He - tates
that he ran through his money, and that his son, who is
wl .th a circus _'" tb ® ' Ve , sfc ® r . n States, maintains him by re-
mittances. The alleged Blondin gives no explanation of
how he came to die in London in 1897.
Stony ”: In an interval of the darnce one evenin’
lately, I went along to have a smoke. A suburban town
hall was the scene of riot, and the smoking-place was a
draughty corridor, by the cloak room. There I found
the “ cloaky ” halving a rest, and spoke him fairly.
Bimeby he opened his heart to me and said things. He
had a grievance, that the youths who attended dances
these days were too hard-up, or mean, or something.
“ Found meself one evenin’—well, it was mornin’, three
o’clock—with me little saucer for voluntary con-
tributions awbut empty. I see any number of coins go
in, an’ like a flat I didn’t take’em out —left ’em there, fer
bait. Several o’ the young chaps ’ad changed 'alf-crowns
—put in a ’alf-dollar an’ took out two bob. I thought so,
anyway. That’s wot they meant me to think. 1 went
’ome sorrowful, that night, with about eight-an’-six.
Next darnce I watched them. Presently one o’ them
tried to come ’is generous little game o’ givin’ the cloaky
’is good tip uv sixpence, on’y ’e put in ’arf-a-crown an’
took out a florin an’a bob. ‘’Ere,’ I sez, ‘you made er
mistake! You took two bob too much !’ An’’e parted,
too. I took up’ards o’ three quid that night. But it’s
’ard work, yer know—moochin’ around ’ere till th’ early
mornin’ Cockcrow. An’ the language ! I don’t mind a
bit, y’ know, but—Oo ! ’N’ I gotter get ter ther foundry
first thing after brek ! ”
“ Snell ” : “ Can a pretty woman be a bad actress? ” is
a theme for heated public discussion suggested by a
recent batch of Melbourne criticisms. The people who
witnessed the first performance made up their minds
promptly and emphatically that the pretty woman
was not more than a cut above a gesticulating,
second-rate amateur. All the way out of the theatre,
down the stairs, along the street, in tram and train,
I met with the same vehement condemnation
of the pretty player, and it was always uttered
with that sense of deep injury the theatrical
patron assumes when he or she finds the
goods are not up to sample, or that the play
fails to realise the poster. On Monday I
looked up the critics, and found that the
actress had “ invested the character with a
charm,” that she had “ happily struck the
right note,” that she had given “a graceful
and intelligent rendition,” etc., etc., etc., and
much more etc. In the newspapers of our
time Truth ismitey.
A promised treat for Sydney is the pro-
duction at Christmas time of “When Knights
Were Bold,” a satirical comedy which is said to really
have some brains in it. Edwin Geach produces the play,
with Frank Thornton in the chief part.
“S.S.”: The actress who is large and lovely is never
quite content with her natural superiority. She must have
a foil. Consequently when the leading lady is tall and
gorgeous, it almost invariably happens that the actress
adjacent to her is short, angular, and plain of face and
figure. One handsome actress now in Australia carries
her foil around with her, and if a manager doesn’t engage
the plain woman he doesn’t get the handsome one. And
one day that excellent beauty may be herself a foil, led
round, like a bear whose beauty has departed, by a new
dazzler; and getting billets on the strength of her sere-
and-yellowness.
“ Mallet ” : At a children’s concert, recently, I was
heartily disgusted with the slush the kiddies had to recite
and sing. The star piece of the evening (recited by a
girl) places the scene in a crowded street (certainly not
in Australia), and a “ragged, bare-foot boy ” is discovered
jubilating over a gold piece which he has found in a heap
of rubbish by the kerb (what was the Health Board
doing ?). He is about half-way through enumerating the
good uses he intends putting the money to when a
“ surly voice ” offers him the alternative of surrendering
the coin or “ going to gaol.” The crowd around heroic-
ally murmurs, “ For shame ! ” but on the Voice incontro-
vertibly proving his claim by the bare assertion “ I lost it
yesterday hereabout,” the bystanders are effectually
silenced, and the Voice repeats its demand. Now does
the boy request him to “ fry his face,” or “ put his head
in a bag,” or inquire if “ he takes a bloke for a blooming
cakewalk ”Not at all; he hands over the coin with a
pathetic sigh (he certainly isn’t an Australian kid) and
the “kindly crowd ” thereupon takes up a collection and
presents the youngster with “ full twice as much as he
had before.” The last lines,
“ Who will say there is not some sweet good will
And kindness left in this cold world still ? ”
are sassiety’s kindly appreciation of its own sterling
qualities. Surely among the writings of our Australian
bards there can be found some decent pieces for our
kiddies to recite instead of teaching them this imported
Yankee pig-refreshment.
“ Cockaigne ” : Apropos Richard Mansfield, the demised
so-called American actor, the best since Edwin Booth.
He was English, and began his career in England as a
singer in comic opera. He was the original Major-General
Stanley in “ The Pirates of Penzance ” when it was pro-
duced in the little town of Paignton for copyright pur-
poses. He disliked being a mummer, and went to
America to seek another business, but became an actor.
Before that he was only a player.
“ Hiphen ”: I have hitherto been clean-shaven. Even
as a kid my girl friends told me it suited my classic style
of beauty. It has cost me much money and blood. When
I patronised a barber it cost me the former, when I
operated on myself I lost the latter. However, I was
firm. I looked something between a Greek god and a
groom. The girls are very, very fond of me. How fond
only modesty forbids my telling. East week I saw
Brigadier Gerard. I fell in love with his whiskers as
interpreted by Jules Knight. lam clean-shaven no more.
My whiskers begin to push out towards the sunlight.
At present they are unbeautiful. I admit it. They give
me an unhung appearance. I look as if I were out of
gaol by an oversight. The girls give me the cold eye. I
am unpopular with my barber. On appearances, I would
be blackballed for membership in Hell. I have made
enemies of my friends and friends of my enemies. But
what does that matter ? N’importe,. With whiskers like
Gerard’s as twirled by Julius K. I could do anything.
Faced with the most intricate problem, I could grip one
end of my moustache and all would come clear. With
a firm grip on my whisker I shall be able even to think
my way through a tariff debate.
AFTER THE PLAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The crash of whirling crayfish, and the rush of frenzied
feet,
The flutter of faint heliotrope ahead,
The scrambling of stout wobblers for the empty window-
seat,
The tangled whoopings of the oyster-fed ;
The sporting speech, backboned with ruddy wine
Of debonair brum-bachelors, bold Reggies off the chain ;
The passing of hot pies along the line,
And, as we go, a voice afar: “’Ere, stop that bloomin’
train ! ”
The breeze from bruised Frankfurts, and the midnight
spud’s bouquet
Commingle with the steam of fierce cigars,
While now the loud longsleever song blots out the gentler
lay
Of him who found his bliss in private bars.
Miss Heliotrope, affrighted, sinks within
Her shell (first-class). Late, struggling souls, enriched
with malt and hop,
Add wild, imploring outcries to the din,
As, panting breathless up, they yell, “ ’Ere ! Hi! ’Old on
there l Stop ! ”
There’s joy in crimson crayfish, and good cheer in bottled
beer;
It’s great to dodge the empties, and avoid
The out-of-business piecrust, and to hear the rousing jeer
What time the frantic porter’s savaloyed ;
And, as the chasing platform-sprinters bray,
To see mirth-holden shoulders shake, and eyes with
laughter shine —
(Those of Miss Heliotrope, across the way)
And hear the voices crying far, “’Ere, stop that train!
It’s mine! ”
VIC.
F.H.
TME LONE HAND
Send in your orders for the first bound volume,
now ready. A charming present for friends
abroad !
And remember that now is the time to send
as a Christmas box to those friends The Lone
Hand. Send 12s. to the office, and the magazine
will be forwarded post free to any address in the
world for a year. You could not more suitably
keep in the mind of the exile his sunny Australia.
The [one Hand
214 George Street, Sydney.
“ Blue Peter ”: Is there anyone in this world quite so
blas6 as the girls in the first part of Rickards’ shows ?
They begin by explaining, in a bored chorus, that they
are “ Merry, merry pierrots (or bathers or reapers),
laughing, ha ! ha ! happy all the day.” After a mechani-
cal little dance, they flop down on their respective rocks
or sheaves, and their expression says plainly, “ Now our
sufferings are about to begin.” They look blank through
the first item, until they have to join in a refrain ;
then they look disgusted. They just manage to
live through the baritone solo, and direct a stony
glare at the lady balladist; but when the serio-comic
damsel of the raucous voice and the nimble
feet skips on, their sufferings reach a climax, because
they all know they could do much better themselves.
Their gloom lightens a little at the funny man’s appear-
ance, until he picks out one of them and makes eyes at
her; then the others lose interest, and each one turns her
head contemptuously to her neighbor and curls her nose.
The programme goes on, and their eyes get fixed and
glassy, but at last their sufferings come to an end. The
hardworking conductor and pianist strikes up a chorus,
they'scramble to their feet, and, with the expression of a
heretic being lifted off the rack, again assert that they are
“ jopjp little reapers, merry all the day,” and crowd
thankfully off the stage.
“Aimee”: “And you come from the
Albury district, do you ? What do they think of
Lyne there now ? ” I hadn’t time to reply before
my agitated female interrogator went on again :
“ Yes, they’ll do for him. As true as there’s a
God in Heaven, that man' will meet his death.
The scoundrel! There’s hundreds sworn to
The tariff ! Misery and starvation ! Are we not
part and parcel of England ? Isn’t England free
—free as the sun ? What right has he to set us
against our own kith and kin ? Oh ! there’ll be
war—civil war! These gullies will run with
blood ! Read the Telegraph. What has he done
but pauperise Australia? Isn’t he in league with
the Pope ? Ain’t there packets and packets of
dispatches being secretly carried to Italy ? Yes.
You’ll have to fight! There’ll be war ! ” I left
here in great haste in order to scrape the rust off
my armament, and be prepared. Truly, the
Telegraph has a lot to answer for.
MR. WATSON'S RETIREMENT.
A sad look-out for Australia.
Again the toughness of the military veteran
is exemplified. The Italian Parliament lately
voted £40,000 for donations to indigent old soldiers
who had fought under Guiseppe Garibaldi. There
were never more than 12,000 of them. They have
been thinning out for about half a century, and
of the remnant many are well off. It was reckoned
that there would be about 300 survivors whose
poverty gave them a claim upon the money, but
the old folks at Rome have been staggered by
24,000 applications, and they reckon that Gari
baldi must have commanded at least 200,000
soldiers.
“ Mary Ann ” Gould was always obstinate
on questions of political etiquette. As a member
and Minister in N.S.W. he was supposed to be
“icy,” but his ice was sheer obstinacy. He made
up his mind to do a thing, and the House could
stand on its head if it liked in opposition. He
didn’t prance about or howl; he just looked on
with a sickly smile, and did the thing. This
quality might be valuable if Gould could get
hold occasionally of a good cause to be stubborn
about ; but he is obstinate about things of no
account, and the habit of sheer obstinacy has run
to waste. As President of the Senate he got out
of the chair and addressed himself on the Anti-
Trust Bill the other day. That was just “ Mary
Ann.” It was foolish, but having made up his
mind to do the thing he did the thing.
Some of the landowners round Rochester
(Vic.), in the notorious Rodney irrigation district,
have just discovered that the State has assumed
them to be honest, and proposes to deal with them
accordingly—and they are a very angry lot of
landowners in consequence. Sec. 231 of the new
Water Act states that land resumed for irrigation
purposes (such as the Waranga channels) is to be
paid for on the basis of the municipal valuation,
which, as the Argus ingenuously puts it, is often
much below the actual value. The landowners
don’t seem to have noticed this clause when the
Bill was introduced, and the House of Rich Land-
lords was apparently asleep, so the item became
law. Now these representatives of the precious
“ backbone” are crying loudly for sympathy, and
whispering in Bent’s ear—but, so far, Thomas is
deaf in that ear.
Those Foreign-traders who clamor for the
new Protection to be applied to Australia’s about-
to-be protected industries might consider the Pro-
tection which the importer doesn’t afford to his
own employees. The Vic. Anti-Sweating League
is now inviting the Warehousemen’s Association
to co-operate with it in inquiring into some awful
cases of slavery that have come to its knowledge.
Employers’ Federation Sec. Walpole lately re-
ported that he could learn of no authentic cases of
sweating in offices or warehouses, but the League
says it can give chapter and verse to prove that
large Melbourne warehouses bind their “ appren-
tices” for three years at £lO, £2O, and £3O per
annum, and pay £4O or £5O per annum even after
seven years’ service ! Also, the League says it
knows of men by the dozen sacked during the
last few years to be replaced by boys and youths;
of packers getting 255. and 30s. a week; of in-
voice clerks at £2O a year ; of Flinders Lane dens
employing 200 hands, over half of them at less
than £1 a week. For these poor devils there is no
prospect of even a “new Freetrade” offered by
way of a set-off to the “ new Protection.” All
that Freetrade offers them is just the old starva-
tion—and then it denies the starvation.
There may be considerable difficulty, even
to the initiated, in picking the winner of the
Melbourne Cup ; but the best brand of whisky
cannot be missed. It stands revealed by the
letters D.C.L. And to adhere to this cherished
brand is to win a reputation for wisdom of more
value than most of the triumphs over Ikey Mo.
For a reputation for wisdom based on D.C.L.
evidence amounts to pretty strong proof of the
possession thereof.*
Here is the substance of a leader in a
Sydney morning paper on “The Federal posi-
tion ” :
There is a nominal Government in power with a
nominal leader. It is irresponsibly controlled by an un-
attached party, whose leader has also virtually retired.
The Opposition is led nominally by one who cannot spare
the time to regularly attend Parliament. . . . This carica-
ture of Parliamentary Government is much too serious a
thing for the people to continue treating with indifference.
The question is, what can they do about it ?
There’s a poser for the whole Anti-Sosh crowd,
and the paper, after discussing it in all its bearings
for half-a-column, proceeds to solve it quite simply
thus: —
The constituents of every member concerned in this
stultification of Parliament should impress him with the
fact that he is playing with the destinies of the Common-
wealth, and seriously insist on the cessation of the
dangerous game before it becomes too late.
Which is all very vague, and leaves things much
as they were.


DEAFNESS and NOISES
COMPLETELY CURED at your own home with pure
Aural Kinetics. No matter 'of how long: standing or
whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, etc., etc.
REV HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HINDMARSH
SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL
CHURCH, ADELAIDE, writes “ The Earoscope you
sent me has wrought a marvellous change in my hear-
ing although I have only used it a couple of months.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel it my
duty even at this stage, to recommend it to anyone
suffering from deafness in whatever stage it may be.”
Thk We li.- Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
0f62 Bondi Road, Waveulky, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful discovery.”
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
“ EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney,N.S.W.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beautyandchic. Illustrated
catalogue with 4S samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/ and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portuga
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN IN AUSTRALIA.
THIS ONE: “ They tell me your husband has
discovered he's a baronet!"
THE OTHER: “ Yes, mum. Goodness knows what
he'll do for a living now! And just as we
have worked up such a nice little green-
grocery business, too.”
“ Dormant ” returns to the charge :
“ Wakeful ” is surprised that The Bulletin should
print my doleful dream of Ballarat, and he bogs into it
and proceeds to count up the city’s industries. But he
forgets to mention one of the principal factories, to wit (as
legal documents say) the frankfurt and mash stall in Sturt-
street. “Wakeful” says the mines are going steadily,
but he does not state where they are going to. Not to the
dogs, I am sure, because no decent registered dog would
think them worthy of his company. Bob Orr stated in
his will that his executors were not to sell Craig’s Hotel
for less than £25,000 (it cost £35,000 to build). Ballarat
being stricken with financial paralysis, the executors
applied to Justice A’Beckett for power to sell the big
heap to the highest bidder. The application was
granted, and the big heap brought £10,500. Before
Ballarat got on the rocks beer was 6d. a glass at
Craig’s ; now it costs the scarce traybit. There were
two or three alleged pleasure boats on the lake, but they
are to be carted to Melbourne to do duty on the Salt-
water River, where every man wears a clothes peg on his
nose. Ballarat is waiting patiently for Bent to increase
the old-age pension to 10s. before it applies for the same.
Then it can squat in Sturt-street, gaze on the statue 3,
and listen to the out-of-tune bells in the City Hall. But
there are not so many empty houses now as there were.
Ballarat, the scene of many a razzle after a Melbourne
Cup or Grand National, is making another use of good
horse flesh. The fire brigade horses are in a constant
lather, journeying to premises that have nothing in them
but a fairly decent blaze.
Cap and gown as adjuncts of ordinary
University life have been looked on with the
glassy eye of disdain by Melbourne students for
years past. Melbourne University has always
had about it very little of the alleged “atmo-
sphere ” of Oxford and Cambridge—that old-
world, or old-cheese, flavor so sought after by
other Australian universities. There isn’t any
Lent Term, Trinity Term, and so on. It’s
first term, second term, third term in
Melbourne, and it’s been tweed suit and
straw hat, instead of cap and gown, for
many a 'nng day. The Uni. regulations are
clea: ard distinct on the cap and gown point, and
time was when they were enforced, and a student
would be fined for appearing in the lecture-room,
or the quad, or the library without his flowing
raiment and the flat black plank bobbing on his
head. But now half-a-dozen of the modern men
among the profs, themselves leave their gowns
and caps at home. In laboratory work and in
engineering work the gown is an absolute draw-
back—a silly, nonsensical long rag, dating back
to the ages of barbarism. That in these days of
bacteriological research the universities should
still cling to such unhygienic garb is incomprehen-
sible, but they do. The other day, in Melbourne,
Baldwin Spencer, one of the best of the professors,
proposed at the council meeting that the regula-
tion on the subject should be deleted, and the
cap and gown reserved for high ceremonials. He
was supported by a couple of members, but Arch-
bishop Clarke, Bones Leeper, and music-man
Methodist Sugden would not hear of such a
radical innovation. “What about your discip-
line?” they said, and quoted Wellington and
Carlyle and a few other equally dead authorities,
ignoring the fact that 80 per cent, of students
break the regulation every day, and the discipline
still goes on.
* * * *
Tommy Tanna, a fast disappearing entity
in Australia - , has left various black splashes on
the pages of the Gaol Register, and murky in-
scriptions on the gallows. His crimes were never
ingenious. The}' were mostly confined to cowardly
violence and shocking outrage. Tommy was also
a bad designer; his criminal architecture was
distinctly crude. But there was one exception.
A ship load of “returns,” a decade or more
ago, planned the seizure of the vessel and the
murder of the white crew. The Solomon Islanders
formed the idea, and got the support of the New
Hebrideans, who were in the minority. They
were to make their plunge on sighting their
native island. But one of the Hebrideans gave
away the show to the mate. He confided in the
captain. The two put on their thinking appara-
tus. As a result, the ship fled into Noumea har-
bor, and borrowed military assistance from the
French authorities. For some reason the Queens-
land Government kept the matter secret, and the
story was not officially told until quite recently.
After this narrow escape the blackbirding vessels
carried heavier crews and a small arsenal of
weapons. The authorities also passed a regulation
forbidding “ boys ” to carry firearms on the return
passage.
» * • *
Lithgow (N.S.W.) is one of the cities
which, in the natural course of the Protectionist
policy of the Commonwealth, are bound to grow
rapidly. In fact, it has of late done so in a mar-
vellous fashion, but its aldermanic brain hasn’t
grown a dwt. The result is that sanitary condi-
tions, etc., have been described in official health
documents as atrocious. Owing to the town
being choked by land monopoly, the rents have
gone up by leaps and bounds, and the result is
that several families inhabit one house; and
others have put up tin, canvas and hessian
hovels, sometimes without the most eleinent-
ary sanitary appliances. The Board of
Health has yelled all it knows how in the
ear of the sleepy Council, and lias suc-
ceeded in partially awakening the animal.
and the Lithgow people ought to see that
it doesn’t turn over on the other side and
go to sleep again. There is power in the
new Local Government Act to resume
land for building purposes, so there is
no excuse for overcrowding a town merely
because the adjacent ground hog won’t
sell. The council can force land open—
but it is necessary to get the right council,
and, somehow, this world is just full of wrong
councils.
* * * *
A large oversea steamer, the Clan Mac-
alister, put into Cairns (Q.) the other week to
land a big consignment of iron rails for the
Chillagoe line. With the exception of a few
officers, the inhabitants of the vessel were all
Lascars. As usual, an hour before sailing time it
was discovered that one of the Soogee Bhags was
missing. The steamer, with the propeller all
ready to twirl, anchored in the inlet while a
search was made for the missing heap of darkness.
As a large portion of the population.of Cairns
consists of liquorice-colored beings, it was not an
easy matter to sort out this one particular item.
Still the A.B. (All Black) was found. Meanwhile
rumors of a £2O reward floated through Cairns,
and the townsfolk examined their backyards and
looked under their beds. A burly wharf-
lumper, with several sheets in the wind
and a list to starboard, tacked along the
beach on his way home to supper. An
aboriginal, absent without leave from the Yar-
rabah mission station, was asleep on the sand,
dreaming of opossum cutlets. The wharf-lumper
naturally fell over the sleeping blackfellow, and
his muddled thoughts flew to the missing Lascar,
and the alleged £2O reward. Without further ado
Boyang Charlie set sail for the police-station with
the nigger in tow. Yarrabah Billie went along
quietly at first, but soon became obstreperous, and
called the wharf-lumper a Warrahingahabbi.
Boyang Charlie objected to being called a Warra-
hingahabbi, and told Yarrabah Billie so by
knocking him down and rolling on him. A mix-
up ensued, and things were a bit miscellaneous
until a policeman, contrary to rule, happened
along, and drafted out the black from the white.
The wharf-toiler demanded the £2O so forcibly
that the constable ran him in on a charge of
blackmail. Meanwhile Soojee Bhag, the cause of
all the trouble, was away at sea, and once more
toiling at his old job.
* * * *
We are getting the truth, bit by bit. Dr.
Liddell, during the Estimates discussion, in the
House of Reps., had this to say of a much-
advertised department of the Jap army service
in the recent war :
I dare say that in the matter of medical equipment [for
the army], we set an object lesson to the rest of the world.
Mr. Johnson : Except Japan ?
Dr. Liddell : Inquiries go to show that many of the
statistics issued with regard to the success of the Japanese
medical corps were “ cooked.” It has come to light that
there was a great deal of disease, and that t.iere was very
little foundation for much that we heard about the
medical equipment of the Japanese troops who took part
in the war.
ANOTHER NAME FOR PANTS .
TEACHER: “A heirloom is an article that is handed down from father to son. Now, can
anyone describe a heirloom to me ? ”
BRIGHT PUPIL: “ Please , Miss, Ginger Jones's trousers is a heirloom."
“ Chiniquy ” : “ Aimee ” (B. 10/10/’O7)
nominates Bathurst as the most despondent town
in N.S.W. How about Liverpool ? If there is a
more depressed and depressing town in the State
I would like to hear of it. Liverpool was erected
largely in the days of Lag, and has been decaying
ever since. Its streets are laid out on a worse
plan than Sydney’s; they commence nowhere,
and in many cases lead to the same place. There
is a large water hole at the back of the Baptist
church, whereon the water-fowl of the town love
to disport themselves. The pond is the result—
and in the summer a smellful one—of an attempt
to drain portion of the town in the Long Ago.
The local council hadn’t got a level, so it used a
bottle, half filled with water, instead, and after
much work found itself so low down that to cut
a drain away from the place it had got to would
have entailed as much work as a whole Panama
Canal. So the city fathers decided to let it remain
at that The three chief industries are Wood,
Cow, and Chook, and three more depressing in-
dustries never settled on a district.
* * * *
“Dormant ” : Newmarket (Vic.) has more
undersized individuals than any other suburb in
Victoria, perhaps in Australia. Now that the
two Cups are drawing near, this cattlc-yard
suburb is doubly strong regarding the pigmy
population. In all the hotel dining-rooms
one feels out of place if he is over 4ft. high,
and without the necessary “stook” and
fringe that are the recognised regalia of
the stable boy. Such expressions as
“Worked on the sand track,” “the
tan,” “ the cinders,” “ fed up,”
“mucked out,” and “give us a
fag, ” are always circulating. Heard
somebody say that a horse’s eye
magnifies objects, and am quite
satisfied that such is the case. No
well-bred horse would tolerate being
looked after by a beetle if he knew
it was a beetle. When there is more
than an inch of rain at Flemington
quite a lot of these amusing little folk
are drowned. The rest swarm up
blades of grass.
* * * *
The good old profitable row goes on for
ever at Broken Hill: —
JJESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND.
CHALLENGE.
The Committees of Management of the Broken Hill
and A.M.A. Bands are prepared to donate £5 each to
the Broken Hill Hospital if Messrs. G. Hawkins and
T. Nicholls, of the Alma District Band, can prove that
the A.M.A. Bandroom was not open and lit up from
8 o’clock to 8.40 on Friday Evening, August 2, in con-
nection with Meeting of Band Delegates re Reception
to Besses o’ th’ Barn Band. Come on and let us hear
from you.
E. W. BARWICK
J. C. BYRNE,
Secretaries.
Barrier Miner, 12/10/’O7.
NOTICE.— I, THOMAS G. MORRIS, of Argent-
street, Broken Hill, hereby GIVE NOTICE TO
NED OLDS, Bootmaker, of Railway Town, that if he
doesn’t Apologise for the names he has called me on
three different occasions on the public street, I shall
take proceedings against him and give him an oppor-
tunity of proving same without further notice.
THOS. G. MORRIS.
Barrier Miner, 14/10/’O7.
T APOLOGISE for anything said about M. SMALLA-
-1 - COMBE.
Mrs. WATSON.
Barrier Miner, 14/10/’O7.
* * * *
An agreeable movement of the bowels,
without any unpleasant effect, is produced by
Chamberlain’s Tablets.*
**-*■*
Moustache Fashions. —There’s the moustache
it la “ Emper r William,” there’s the small pointed
moustache of a la “Belle France,” the waxy, drooping
moustache of “ Old England.” In fact what nation has
not its characteristic adornment of the upper lip ? If you
have a half-grown, weakly-looking - moustache use
“ Capillarine.” It’s the one and only true moustache
grower that will do everything that is claimed for it. It
will produce a heavy moustache in no time, and all at t he
cost of half-a-guinea from Craig and Aitken, 654 George
Street, Sydney.*
The ivy on the oak seems to be a favorite
with people who have had a heart-failure in the
family. Ivy is an unhealthy sort of growth at
best, and doesn’t approach the clematis on the
gum-tree for charm and elegance; but the ivy
still clings to its oak in In Memoriam “ verse.”
Witness no less than three separate items in
Melbourne Age, of 12/10/’O7 : (1) “Like ivy on
the withered oak .. . our love for you will still keep
green and never fade away” ; (2) “Like
the ivy on the oak ’’—not withered this
time; (3) and most rollicking of all; “Like
ivy on the withered oak” (why withered,
anyhow?) “when all things else decay,
our love for you, dear father, will still keep green
and never fade away.” This tendency to the oak
shows that the In Memoriam habit is strictly
an imported one. If it had grown up here, the
thoughts of the family which had just deposited
uncle in his long home would rather tend to cling
to the beefwood, bloodwood, tallow-wood, John-
stone River teak, spotted gum and hoop-pine,
with an occasional glance at the onion wood,
jarrah and sandalwood. But the bereaved family
rushes for comfort to the oak quite mechanically.
COMPLYING WITH THE REGULATIONS.
SURF BATHING IN N.S.W.
An ancient holding in Pitt-street, Sydney,
is on the market. It is now known as Gladstone-
chambers, but the present structure, which is com-
paratively new, supplanted one of those known
from early days as Terry’s-buildings. They were
the property of Sam Terry, “ the Australian
Rothschild,” who died in the late ’thirties, and
the grounds are still in the family. It was in one
of Terry’s-buildings that the Australian Library,
the nucleus of Sydney’s Free Public Library, was
established in 1827.
* * * *
“J.R.”: The Relief of Lucknow took
place 17/11/’57, just 50 years ago next month, and
some Adelaide people are issuing an appeal for
some sort of celebration :
There are a fair number of Indian Mutiny veterans re-
siding in Australia, and it seems to me at this period
that we should do something to show these men who
saved India to the Empire, that they are not forgotten,
and that their deeds of valor still live in the memory of
the Anglo-Saxon race.
It so happens that I am one of the people who
were more or less actively helping at the Relief
of Lucknow on the date named, and several
previous days, and certainly up to now I never
have observed that the Anglo-Saxon race, what-
ever that may be, was very anxious to remember
the fact.
THE OBSTRUCTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The site suggested for the Commonwealth offices in
London is next door to a French caf6 chantant in the
Strand.— Senator Neild.
Oi sold me moke an’ barrer ter a pal in Seving Diles ;
Oi pawned me precious pearlies wif a tear,
So Oi could pay me passage fur the sixteen thousand
miles,
Ter Orstrylia in the Sufferin’ ’Emisphere.
Oi started fur the orfice whur they gives the litest tips
Abaht the deadly wombats in that land—
When Oi ’ears a lydy: “Veelee!” an’, afore Oi knows,
Oi trips
In the bloomin’ Cafy Shontong in the Strand.
They wus flahs an’ lights an’ dancin’ an’ a score o’ fancy
tarts
Whose dresses didn’t reach below their knees,
An’ didn’t start so far above the plices whur their ’earts
Went bumpin’ quick an’ quicker by degrees.
The best o’ all the crowd come up an’ give me chair a
shove
An’sat upon me knee, an’ took me ’and,
As she whispered, “ Ah, mong cherry, veel you teach me
’ow to love?”
In that little Oafy Shontong in the Strand.
No decent British coster bloke—Oi puts it ter yer
straight—
Could see a furren lydy so distressed,
An’ the on’y thing in wimmin Oi perticularly ’ate
Is ter see ’em suffer —so Oi done me best.
She looked so innerc ntly up an’ did as she wus bid ;
But it didn’t tike me long ter understand
That she wus the purfessor an’ yours truly wus the kid,
In that little Cafy Shontong in the Strand.
They’s twenty French girls ’ere, an’ Oi have got ter teach
the lot,
An’ Oi’m never gointer emigrate no more,
Fur Oi don’t want no sea voyages ; Oi’m content wif what
Oi’ve got,
An’ Oi never wan ter see Orstrylia’s shore.
They kin keep their bloomin’ emus an’ their gum trees
grim an’ gray,
Fur Orstrylia ’ain’t nothin’ arf so grand
As them dainty Frenchv damsels who ’ave stole me ’eart
away
In the little Cafy Shontong in the Strand.
N.S.W.
MILTON MAcGREGOR.


‘RheumagnetiC’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Ring's approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
BEWARE
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Ansemia, Insomnia, etc.
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which arc in-
capable of producing- galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“Itheumagnetic " Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Rings, write —
THE RHEUMAUNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45=47 Melville St., Hobart, fas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
AN OLD FAVORITE.
PRICE—
-12/6
Postage
9d. Extra.
1
STATE
SIZE
WHEN
ORDERING.
Here's an old favorite! We
had many inquiries for this
hat last season. It's as good
as a Panama—and can be
worn in a variety of ways—
up or down at front or back
.and makes a perfect shade hat.
IWe doubt if you can get such
a well-made real fur hat as
this is at anything like the
price elsewhere.
Brims— 2%, 2%, and 2% in.
COLORS: LICHT FAWN anti DARK
FAWN and LICHT GREY.
PEAPES AND CO., LTD., Men’s
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Outfitters,
London missionary bodies are packing off
their reformed burglars and penitent thieves to
Australia as “desirable immigrants,” says the
chairman of the British Passenger Agents’ Asso-
ciation :
A great sheep-land Australia is ;
Not England’s fault the fact her lonely
Bush plains and all her cities are
Not over-run with black sheep only 1
HIS ONE FAULT.
DADDY : “ Oh, he’s all right, but he goes in for
rather expensive hobbies.”
DAUGHTER : “ What do you mean!”
DADDY : “ You, for instance.”
“X.Z.” : For a nondescript conveyance, the
Townsville (N.Q.) ’bus takes the wheaten nourish-
ment. These ’buses—about 20 in nu m ber —meander
around Townsville at the terrific speed of nearly
two weeks a year. Visitors from the South are at
first uncertain whether the vehicle is a brewery
waggon or a merry-go-round. One man described
the caravan as a cross between an Adelaide horse-
tram and a butcher’s cart, with a slight suggestion
of a furniture van. For my part, lam fully con-
vinced that the Townsville jogalong was originally
built by a shipwright for a circus proprietor, and
was used as a coffee-stall before being sold to
a Hindu hawker, who died, and his estate was
traded off to the ’bus people by the Curator in
Lunacy.
NOT ON SPEAKING TERMS.
CONSTABLE: “ But the girl says you drove on without even apologising, after you had knocked
her down.”
MOTORIST (lately from London): “ Yaas, my dear fellow; I wot at fully sorry, don’t you
know, but I’d never been introduced to the lady.”
“Kodak”: One of the small trials of
civilisation consists in meeting the same people
day after day in the train, when going to and
coming from the city. The monotony of seeing
the same man week after week, at exactly the
same hour, under exactly the same conditions,
gets in time to be an infliction to the spirit. If he
happens to be an abnormally fat man who has a
habit of arriving late, you know him only as a
perspiring, gasping mass of flesh that whirls on to
the platform at the last instant, and falls on you
with an indignant snort as the train
jolts forward. At home he may,
despite his figure, be the most enter-
taining of mortals—the man who can
tell a really bad story well. To
you he is merely a frenzied monster
that tramples you underfoot once
every twenty-four hours. (That is,
unless he happens to make a mistake
and select the next compartment, in
which case you sit back chuckling,
and try to imagine his rage and dis-
appointment when he finds you have
eluded him.) If he doesn’t happen
to be too fat or too thin, he has a
squalid habit of arranging his tie
under one ear, or he strokes
his beard, or intones his opinions
about the Government, or he
wears something absurd. My
office hours have lately been
changed, and, in consequence, I
meet daily quite a different lot
of human beings from the ones I
used to see. There have been
several interesting changes—one
particularly so. For a stolid
young man who used to drag at a
blighted moustache for eight miles
every morning, Fate and the Vic-
torian Railways have given me a
tall thin man with a peculiar,
hybrid hat. It is a marvellously
flat thing made of grey felt, and it
is utterly unlike any other hat I
ever saw. I think the wearer
must be an eccentric hatter, or a
man with scruples or doubts, or
something like that. Of course
someone bas said that the clothes
don’t make the man, but the same
authority didn’t say that theclothes
don’t make the man peculiar. lam
watching the man with the re-
markable hat—l want to find out
his motive in wearing it. It may be
a new religion or a secret society or
a solemn vow r , or perhaps it’s a sign
to someone that all is forgiven and
to come home at once—mother
anxious. Somehow or other, though,
I think it’s a curse. I have no par-
ticular reason for getting this im-
pression—l am merely going on ap-
pearances. But I want to clear the
thing up. I want to find out some-
thing about it. Does anyone know anything
about a pale man with an enigmatical hat ?
* * * *
In the good old days, when a Government
contract of any size set the contractor up for life,
the sewerage scheme of a certain city building
included numerous man-holes and covers. These
man-holes were designed to give access to the
drains, if anything went wrong. Recently some-
thing went very wrong, and the covers were taken
off for inspection. The covers were good, and the
iron rings for lifting the same were first class ; so,
also, was the brickwork underneath so far as it
went, but it didn’t go far enough. The drains are
17ft. below the surface; the man-holes are sft.
deep. The contractor saved 12ft., and now people
want to know how the job was passed, and why it
was paid for.
m * * *
Dyspepsia arises from disorders of the
stomach, liver, and bowels, and can be prevented
by using Chamberlain’s Tablets. They invigorate
these organs and enable them to perform their
functions properly.*
* m * •
In the summer-time, a man’s first thoughts are
naturally of what is best to drink. Time was when a
still small voice murmured “Beer”: or the whisper of
the Tempter suggested “ Whisky and soda.” But the
world grows wiser in its latter years, and now the call is
for Lime Juice —Montserrat Lime Juice. During the Boer
War, enteric killed thousands more than the Boer bullets,
but there were whole regiments which totally escaped fever.
They were the ones who drank Montserrat Lime Juice.
Which proves that it is a good serviceable brand. The
British Admiralty has on its staff some of the best judges
of liquor the world has ever known, and the B.A. care-
fully supplies its warships with Montserrat Lime Juice,
co keep out scurvy. The fact that scurvy is now unknown
in the British fleet proves that the Montserrat Lime Juice
is what the excellent judges of the Admiralty took it for.
If the drinker wants medical testimony, he will find it in
the Lanckt, which states that it is, particularly during
the summer, a far more wholesome drink than any form
of alcohol, and that, say an ounce or two of the pure
juice in a tumbler of really cold water, sweetened to
taste, is about the pleasantest beverage that can be taken
when the thermometer is over 65° or 70° F.” If any
further doubt exists on the subject, Try It.*
“ J.G.” speaks in a considerable tone :
I rise to take a hand in the comparison of Bendigo and
Ballarat (B. 3/10/’O7). Bendigo Post Office and Law
Courts were not built with Bendigo cash, but with the
hard-earned money of the Victorian people, and they are
monuments, not of Bendigo’s enterprise, but of its
cadging ability. In that line Bendigo beats Ballarat
easily. The big grandstand Bendigo is so proud of was
not built by the racing sports of the city, but by the rate-
payers, and a big hunk of the ratepayers’ park was
fenced in to give it standing-room. Then, when any-
thing worth seeing is going on, the fool Bendigonian is
kept out of his own property unless he pays Is. or more
to a body of outsiders. Moreover, Bendigo’s main sewer,
a most smellful arrangement, meanders right through
Rosalind Park, and the whiff in summer time is just im-
mortal. In the way of immortal smells Bendigo badly
beats Ballarat, which has nothing like this to show. Ben-
digo’s so-called Lake Weeroona is a muddy, doggy hole even
when it has any water in it; just at present it is as dry as
Dives was in the Other Place. It cannot be for one
moment compared with that beautiful sheet of water at
Ballarat, Lake Wendouree, which is one of the finest
holiday resorts in Australia. In statuary, Bendigo has
one really good group, the Golden Jubilee, a passable one
of late Queen Victoria, and one ridiculous heap called the
Soldiers' Memorial. Ballarat has about a score that are
better than Bendigo’s very best. Lastly, and best of all,
Ballarat is a place where life in summer time is a pleasure,
while living at Bendigo, with the scorching winds and
filthy, smothering dust rolling up and down the streets,
is like being perched on the edge of Gehenna with the
lid off. But Bendigo has Worrall. The Garden City cer-
tainly has nothing like Worrall, any more than it has
anything like that open ditch in Rosalind Park. Yah 1
* * * *
President Kent, of the Sydney Architects’
Society, has been asking the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment what it means by allowing its departmental
architects to plan hospital buildings ; and he re-
marks that things are going from bad to worse.
They are, indeed. In the days of the old Con-
tinuous Government in Queensland, for instance,
the architects were treated decently. The Rock-
hampton Hospital once wanted a cowshed, and an
architect was called in to consider what style,
ancient or modern, would suit Foley’s complexion
best. True, when the bill for seven guineas came
in, there was a ribald committeeman who behaved
outrageously about it, and proposed that when
the bail was finished the Governor should be
invited up to open it, or tie the first leg-rope, or
do whatever the right thing may be when you
open a cow-shed.
* * * *
“ Ruru ” (Maoriland) : Pity registrars
haven’t power to refuse to label unfortunate
infants with the names occasionally chosen for
them by addled parents. An Auckland official did
remonstrate with a man who desired to give his
helpless offspring 20 names, after the fashion
of royalty, but was snubbed for his pains,
and the indignant parent raised the number of
names to 22, just out of cussedness. Two small
boys in the car the other day were asked by a
benevolent old lady opposite to tell their names.
“Record,” said the elder, adding (for although
only about five he already appeared to recognise
the need for explanation) “Dahl Record Reign;
and he’s Huia.” “ Oh,” said the old lady, when
she had recovered breath, “ Huia, after the
Governor’s child ?” “ No, after the racehorse ! ”
explained Master Dahl Record Reign. Besides
numberless poor kiddies whose names com-
memorate events and generals of the South African
war, I have come across two answering to the
freak names of Trophy and Rover. Three awful
examples of flower names run wild are Camellia
White, Oleander Stevens, and Dahlia Drake;
and one poor youngster has been rendered
ridiculous for life by being saddled with the name
of Harlequin. So far, Harlequin tops my list.
Fancy trying to do any serious business with a
man named Harlequin—especially if his surname
is Hobson.
“ Barb ” : “He didn’t carry a gun, so he
hit her.” Thus “Maori Mac” (B. 3/10/’O7) anent
a lover’s treatment of an unwilling maid. It re-
minds me. Roosted one night in a country hotel,
and about 10.30 retired to my room. From the
other end of the long corridor mysterious and
uncanny sounds reached me. Somebody was
living the strenuous life in a room lower down.
He seemed to be throwing a fifty of flour at the
wall, washstand, dressing-table and bedstead with
tiresome regularity. The bumps were followed
by faint feminine screams. I opened my door
noiselessly. The bumps ceased, and a woman’s
plaintive tones floated down to me. “You
w-r-e-t-c-h,” she wailed, “you’ll—have—to—let—
me-bi-i-te you now. See /” No answer was
audible. “ Are—you—going—to let—me b-i-i-te
—you, Snowy?” the plaintive voice went
on. Here apparently the lady received an
answer, for she uttered a threat. “ Well, I’ll
talk to you—till two o’clock. See!” Midnight
came, and the lady was still requesting Snowy to
let her bite him. Midnight melted into 12.30 and
1 a.m. Here, I presume, sleep overtook the
offending but silent Snowy, and the lady, per-
ceiving the opportunity, seized—in her teeth—
both him and it, for a blood-curdling yell rent the
night, followed bv one great big final bump and
silence. Found on inquiry next morning that the
pair were husband and wife, suffering from incom-
patability. The woman was a little wailing wisp
of a white thing. Snowy, her husband, the man
who dented the furniture with her, and whom she
was so grimly determined to bite, was a nigger.
* * * *
The dirty shire councillor again :
At the meeting of the Narracan Shire Council (Vic.) the
dairy inspector reported that he had visited the premises
owned by one of the councillors, and had found that the
flooring of the yard was in a disgraceful state. In a
number of the slabs in the yard were holes, which were
filled with the excrement of the cows, from which the
odor was most disgusting. The slush had splashed his
clothes, and he was compelled to return home and
change them, on account of the offensiveness of the
smell. ... The pig-yard was close to the milking bails.
And as a refreshing and unexpected wind-up to
this unusual outspokenness :
The inspector was instructed to proceed without
respect to persons where the provisions of the Dairy
Supervision Act were not being strictly carried out.
* * * *
“ Stony ” : Saw an unusual sight on Port
Phillip, one recent calm, warm day, after balf-a-
gale. It was that of a drowned fox reposing on
the beach at Brighton (Vic.), nine miles from
Melbourne. Judging from his appearance, he
hadn’t been long dead, and he looked as little
travel-worn as could be expected under the con-
ditions. Nothing in this line surprises me since
the day when I saw rabbits browsing on the rail-
way line within half-a-mile of the city ; but I
certainly have been wondering how that fox was
washed into the sea in the first instance. Another
matter which dawned on my astonished gaze at
about the same moment as did the fox, is that
eight bathing-boxes stand on a pretty stretch of
shore between the exits of two drains, which are
only 200yds. apart. These drains take Brighton’s
refuse out into the sea, where bounds the fretful
porpoise. But a little thing like a drain doesn’t
seem to worry a mixed-bather. The man and the
maid mix just the same.
* * * *
One of the issues on which N.S.W. Labor-
leader McGowen attacked the Wade Ministry was
the allegedly absurd prices paid to Sydney firms
for school-books compiled and printed in Aus-
tralia, and for other locally-supplied school requi-
sites. The books, in particular, might have been
got much cheaper, according to McGowen,
which plea takes no account of the fact that the
first tender for the new school-books had to carry
the cost of compiling, type-setting, and illustrating,
the cost of special machinery, and an allowance
for risk, for among all the firms which submitted
sample books only one could get the tender, and
the work of the others must needs be dead loss.
Now that all the preliminary work is done, future
supplies will probably be cheap enough. Still, of
course, the imported “reader”—all about Eng-
land and its environs, save for a bare mention
that Australia is full of bushrangers and convicts
—would be cheaper, as McGowen said. For that
matter it would be still cheaper to have no
“ reader ” at all.
■* » * *
Justice Burnside, of Westralia, handed
down, the other day, a decision which does him
credit. A young miner, who was killed in an
accident, had devoted much of his earnings to the
education of his sister. They had been very poor,
and the girl was aged 2i before her brother
found himself in a position to let her leave
domestic service and start her long-neglected
studies in a convent. When he was killed
the Court at Cue awarded her £4OO as a
person dependent on him within the meaning
of the Workers’ Compensation Act. Then the
mine-owner appealed, on the ground that the girl
wasn’tdependentin the proper sense, that education
wasn’t a necessary of life, and that, anyhow, the
girl was getting much more of it than was suited
to “one of her station.” And Justice Burnside
replied that a person’s station was just the highest
station he or she could climb to, and that
education was a necessary—the biggest necessary
his Honor had ever heard of. And he dismissed
the appeal with much thud.
* * * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord North cote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE WISDOM OF THE BEAST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Chinese residents’ display had been an education
for a number of our young people. —The Vic. Premier,
12i101’07, supported by the Melbourne May oriel, and such
like.
Owing- to the conditions under which the Chinese live,
there is a great deal of sickness and disease. In the
men’s compound at Pakhoi there are 100 victims in vari-
ous stages of leprosy. —“ Among the Lepers of Pakhoi.”
Now is the White Australian’s time
To seize the chance the gods allow,
And, in the ways of vice and crime,
To learn good lessons from the Chow.
The Christian Chow can tell us much
Our youth should hear —the Chow can show
Foul children of his tainted touch —
Assorted lepers, white as snow.
Flash Mary, white and fat and young,
Walks in the ways of wisdom now ;
She draws her dope kind friends among—
Her educator is a Chow.
Within the horrid halls wherein
The students of Chow-joyaunce live,
Their dead souls stained with scarlet sin,
The Chow is stern, admonitive.
And when, along our small back streets,
You hear the white Chow’s-woman row,
Who is the bloke that takes an’ beats
His lesson on her back ? The Chow 1
0, leper, with your spotty claw,
Lead us along the ways of truth !
Stainer of bloods, lay down your law !
Doper, instruct our ardent youth !
Hear how the white fool-heathen roar —
Mayors, aldermen, and priests that bow
And spread their frilly tails before
The Christian, educative Chow !
VIC.
FRANK HENTF.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
•'f
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902.. £7,061 5 p.c. = £3750 £3,311 £25,120
Sept., 1902 .. 7,095 5 „ „ 3750 3,345 28,465
Mar., 1903 .. 7,-380 6„ „ 3750 3,630 32,095
Sept., 1903.. 6,819 6 „ „ 4500 2,319 34,414
Mar., 1904 .. 7,556 6„ „ 4500 3,056 37,470
Sept., 1904 .. 7,333 6 „ „ 4500 2,833 40,303
Mar., 1905 .. 8,335 6 „ „ 4500 3,835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6„ „ 4500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 „ „ 6250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906 .. 10,179 7„ „ 5250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7„ „ 5687 7,195 77,322
Sept., 1907.. 14,619 7„ „ 7000 7,619 84,941
This bank, which had its final cleaning-up in 1897, when
it wrote its capital down from £300,000 to £150,000, has
been making rapid progress. Whether some of the profits
which were being made, say, five years ago were not
disclosed, but were used to write down assets, and thus
further strengthen the position, it is impossible, of course,
to say; but, apart from the disclosed profits, other figures
have changed in a remarkable way. Even in the past
12 months things have altered like this :
Sept.,’o6. Sept.,’o7.
Notes in circulation .. £12,062 £12,043 Dec. £l9
Bills in circulation, etc. 43,819 62,439 Inc. 18,620
Deposits at interest .. 887,303 961,787 Inc. 74,484
Free deposits ... .. 268,338 275,675 Inc. 7,337
Liquid assets .. .. 664,617 512-.682 Dec. 151,935
Advances .. .. 687,072 1,025,087 Inc. 338,015
Premises, etc 72,711 66,117 Dec. 6,594
This time five years ago the advances totalled £527,775 ;
so there has been nearly a 100 per cent, increase. In the
same time the deposits have moved up from £612,779 to
£1,237,462. Five years ago the bank had the use of
£3lls. of the public’s money for every £1 of its own ; now,
though it has got in £50,000 more capital, the proportion
is £4 15s. to £l. That means extra risks, no doubt, as
well as extra profit; for it is the shareholders’ funds that
have to stand the racket if the assets in which the public’s
money is put goes wrong. Still, £4 15s. of the public’s
money to £1 of the shareholders’ is not a large propor-
tion ; some of the most highly esteemed Australian banks
maintain a proportion of 7 to 1.
Liquid assets have been heavily drawn upon in
order to make the new advances ; yet the proportion of
liquid assets to total liabilities is still 39 per cent., which
is substantial. With regard to the very large body of
new advances, a great deal depends upon the margin
between the recent (and to some extent the present)
boom values and the amount advanced ; and a bank’s
balance-sheet gives no inkling on that most important
point. Assuming that the bank has required large
margins, so that it will have good assets even should
things slump badly, the past half year has been highly
profitable. On the basis of capital and reserves the dis-
closed profits compare in this way with recent figures :
Sept., 1903, £7 9 9 p.c. I Sept., 1905, £8 9 9 p.c.
Mar., 1904, 8 311 „ i Mar., 1906, 10 3 7 „
Sept., 1904, 716 6 „ Sept., 1906, 10 010 „
Mar., 1905, 815 2 „ | Mar., 1907, 10 10 10 „
An excellent feature is the large proportion of the profits
put to reserve—a point which ought to be of great in-
terest to depositors and other creditors. Curiously,
however, the average depositor seems to judge a bank by
the size of the dividend, and puts that bank highest
which pays the biggest dividend, though every pound
paid out in dividend is a pound less available to guarantee
the return of the depositor’s own little bit.
The Agricultural Bank of Queensland,
another of the Socialistic concerns which give the mostly
anti-Socialistic farmer a lift:—
Loss Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1903 .. £289 3 per cent. = £47 £336
Profit.
1904 .. 501 3 „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 .. 826 3 „ „ 773 53 199
1906.. 2476 3 „ ~2031 445 EeSerV 246
1907 .. 4212 3 „ ~ 3161 1051 1297
Queensland’s State bank is somehow having a rather
worse time, so far as properties thrown o,n its hands are con-
cerned, than most of them. There were seven properties
in hand 12 months ago, and since then eleven more have
fallen in, not, it seems, because the bank foreclosed in the
ordinary way, but because the occupiers wouldn’t hang on.
Still, cases like that are almost bound to be numerous
in the bank’s early days. Improvements are the basis on
which advances are made —the advances are made as the
improvements grow ; and a man’s improvements, when
they have grown a bit, will anchor him to the place even
through a bad season or two. It is when the selection is
new and he hasn’t much in the way of improvements
that he will move on at the first reverse ; and nearly all
of the bank’s advances are new as yet. Therefore, the
experience with regard to farms and selections thrown
on the bank’s hands isn’t really as seriously disheartening
as the numbers look. The proportion, it is almost
certain, will shrink as time goes on.
Some more of the history of the Queensland
bank is written here :
Advances Expenses
Out- Advances Working p.c. of
standing. Repaid. Expenses. Advances.
1903 .. £6,253 i-557 £8 18 2
1904 .. 20,370 £650 550 214 0
1905 .. 38,417 311 . 687 115 9
1906 .. 94,268 3,229 1043 1 2 0
19Q7 .. 112,216 12,908 1243 1 2 2
So far the figures are small and the proportion of work-
ing expenses consequently high. In Victoria the ex-
penses run to 13s. 7d. per cent, of the advances,
but the Victorian advances total £1,251,051; and in
Maoriland, where the total is £3,551,876, the expenses
are down to 4s. 9d. per cent. Taking a line from those
figures, the Queensland costs are not out of the way. The
progress in the matter of advances is much less en-
couraging. Yet forcing tactics with regard to advances
are dangerous. Queensland has seen the time when
bank managers almost pursued people with lassos when
they couldn’t otherwise capture them in order to compel
them to take advances ; but it led to trouble. The law
with regard fo this State bank is much more liberal now
than it was at the beginning, and really only the last two
years count; so it is a bit early yet to judge definitely.
In i 2 months from now, however, if the figures indica-
ting advances don’t show considerable improvement, it
will be time to inquire. The Queensland selector may be
an affluent person who doesn’t want help; but the
chances are that he wants help, and the law won’t allow
it to be given even where help is justified.
* * * *
The South British Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland): —
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1897.. £27,612 17J p.c. = £11,310 £16,302 £186,212
1898.. 5,930 17£ „ „ 11.310 180,832
1899.. 27,560 17& „ „ 11,310 16,250 197,082
1900.. 39,488 20 „ „ 12,926 26,562 223,644
1901.. 36,975 22J „ „ 14,541 22,484 246,078
1902.. 44,896 25 „ „ 16,157 28,739 274,817
1903 43,925 25 „ „ 16,f57 27,-768 302,585
1904.. 75,532 30 „ „ 19,38 S 56,144 358,729
£32,314 Reserves transferred to Capital 326,415
f 58,691 25 p.c. = 25,000 33,691 360,106
190 u -> New Share Premiums .. 9,411 369,517
1906.. 72,103 27i p.c.= 27,500 44,603 414,120
1907.. 48,121 30 „ „ 30,000 18,121 432,241
The reserves include £130,000 to cover unexpired risks.
To some extent these are not true reserves ; nor is the
£5OOO added to this re-insurance fund for the year true
profit. The published statement shows a surplus on
revenue account of £47,334. The difference between that
and the £48,121 shown above is accounted for as follows:
Balance, Revenue account .. .. .. £47,334
Add amount transferred to Re-insurance
Reserve 6,000
£52,334
Less Sinking Funds (leaseholds) .. .. £360
Written off 539
Provident Fund contribution ... 2,733
Written off Investment Fluctuation
Fund 581
4,213
Net Profit for year.. .. .. £48,121
The experience has thus been less satisfactory than that
of the previous three years. The explanation—prac-
tically the whole explanation—is that the losses have
been heavier:—
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £209,239 £136,160 £50,229 65-op.c. 24’0p.c.
1900.. 215,730 130,123 67,925 60'3 „ 26'9 „
1905.. 297,822 180,009 82,366 60-4 „ 27'7 „
1906.. 319,434 186,102 85,719 58‘2 „ 26'8 „
1907.. 333,131 218,314 92,032 65'5 „ 27'6 „
Expenses have been a trifle more, too. That, however,
may be due partly to the fact that the co. has gone
vigorously into the accident, employers’ liability, and
guarantee business, which it got authority to undertake
a while before this -last financial year opened. In the
ordinary course this business costs more than marine busi-
ness, for instance ; and for a start, it would be even more
costly than ic is likely to be after the branch has been
well organised. Unfortunately, the results of the various
branches are not stated separately ; but it is hardly pos-
sible, judging by other offices’ figures, that the bad ex-
perience of the year with regard to losses has been due
to the accident and similar business. It is more likely
to have been due to heavy marine losses. In that branch
few offices can look back upon the past 12 months with
much joy.
At the end of August the co. had assets to-
talling £635,089, and liabilities amounting to £84,991,
chiefly outstanding losses. Of the capital (£100,000) and
reserves, £187,952 was in landed property, £151,457 in
mortgages, £153,968 in cash and deposits, and £107,022
in public securities. The mean of the invested funds for
the year was £506,647; and on that basis the interest
earnings were £5 16s. 7d. per cent.—a remarkably high
rate. Possibly, however, some of the agency balances
(£67,898) have earned interest included in the total, and
that would reduce the rate a little ; but even so, it would
be an unusually fine return. Shareholders’ capital and
reserves together earned £9 7s. 2d. per cent.—that is,
from interest and underwriting profit combined.
The South British has so far been “unlimited,”
and insurers have been asked to note the fact as being
something of an extra guarantee that losses will be paid,
no matter how big they may be. But it is doubtful
whether this indefiniteness is much in a co.’s favor ; and
it is understood that the South British is seriously think-
ing whether it is worth while continuing on those lines.
It observes that the solid, wealthy man isn’t inclined to
risk everything he has, wherefore he stands off such
investments as shares in an unlimited liability
company; and the public, observing the same thing,
is inclined to believe that an unlimited co. might, after
all, cut up poorly on that account. A limited co. would
probably give better results in the end. It needn’t,
therefore, cause any surprise if the South British soon fol-
lows the lead of the other great Maoriland insurance office
and becomes limited; if it does, it will certainly
strengthen its share register, and policyholders will
probably on that account get as much protection as they
do under the present “ unlimited” liability, and possibly
more.
* * • •
Three months ago the Norwich Union Life
Office announced that it had appointed an attorney, and
intended to battle for business in Maoriland. As a pre-
liminary, Maoriland was flooded with literature, and
part of the literature said that, on certain policies, the
Norwich Union gave a reversionary bonus equal to 33 per
cent, of premiums paid. Now the Norwich Union’s secre-
tary writes out to say that “this statement is utterly
untrue. The 33 per cent, in question was ascertained
cash surplus permitting of the addition to all policies of
equivalent reversionary sums.” The reversionary
bonus, in the case of a policy effected at aged 30,
and assuming the policy to be 10 years old, would work
out at 72 per cent, of premiums paid. Presumably this
is correct. Yet if, in the interests of the Norwich Union,
statements are published which say that it gives 33 per
cent, reversionary bonuses, it can’t complain if people
suppose reversionary bonuses were meant. “Reversion-
ary ” never spells “ Gash’’ in Australia, whatever it may
do at Norwich.
For the rest, the Norwich Union says it is 99
years old, and “ in virtue of its absorption of the business
of the ‘ old Amicable,’ founded in 1706, it can legitimately
claim to be the oldest Life office in the world. During its
existence it has paid in claims £24,000,000, and its reserves
are on the strongest known basis, having stood the test of
a net premium valuation at 2£ per cent.” Also, while its
interest earnings are £4 6s. 3d. per cent, as against the
Maoriland Life Department’s £4 Bs. 2d. per cent., yet
“ as our valuation rate is 2£ per cent, against the Depart-
ment’s oh per cent., there is a yearly margin towards
bonus from interest earnings alone of no less than three-
quarters per cent, in favor of the Norwich Union.”
And, having permitted the Norwich Union to
have its free advt. to that extent, The Bulletin repeats
two things that it pointed out before (B. 4/7/’07):
(1) For a whole-life £lOO policy the Maoriland Life
Department charges £2 4s. 3d. (age 30) per annum, while
the Norwich Union charges £2 11s. 9d., according to the
Insurance Blue Book.
(2) The executors of John Darling, M.L.C., of S. Aus.,
had to go to law to recover his insurance from an English
office which also once started in business in S. Aus. ; and,
though the Norwich Union isn’t, of course, that sort of
office, yet it is no good quoting its age to prove it—John
Darling’s office was 90 years old, anyway.
* * * *
From a man who ought to know: “Re the
Australian Alliance Assurance, and the trouble over the
Life funds (B. 17/10/’O7). These are the facts of the case.
After Chief Justice Madden’s judgment had been de-
livered, the co. was able to produce further documentary
evidence, and the claimants admitted that, in view of
this evidence, they had no option but to bring the claim
down to the £42,000 agreed upon. The point in dispute
was as to whether certain lump sums received should
have been paid into the Life fund instead of (as had been
done) into the general fund. The Court decided in favor
of the Life fund.”
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898 .. £2249 5 p.c. = £1250 £999 £2,251
1899 .. 2807 5 „ „ 1250 1557 3,808
1900 .. 1700 5 „ „ 1250 450 4,258
1901 .. 2074 6 „ ~ 1500 574 4,832
1902 .. 2302 6 ~ „ 15.00 802 5,634
1903 .. 3939 8 „ „ 2000 1939 7,573
1904 .. 4226 8 „ „ 2000 2226 9,799
1905 .. 6724 10 „ „ 2500 4224 14,023
1906 .. 5172 10 „ ~ 2500 2672 16,695
1907 .. 5118 10 „ „ 2500 2618 19,313
This co. has a subscribed capital of £1,000,000, only £25,000
of which is paid ; so that on the £5 share (2s. 6d. paid)
there is a liability of £4 17s. 6d. The shareholder
who owns a liability of that size will probably
watch the management and see that it doesn’t
riot; and a body of shareholders watching mat-
ters in that way is almost as fine a safeguard for clients
as the big reserve capital itself is. The co. is making
steady yet rapid progress. In 1899 the estates in hand
totalled £1,230,958 ; and from that point they have gone
on mounting till this year they reach £2,767,780. The co.
pays itself by two commissions : ope on the income, the
other on the capital value of the estate. The commission
on the capital value or corpus is not realised till the
estate is liquidated ; nevertheless some cos., estimating
the value of the estate, take credit for this corpus com-
mission as soon as the estate comes in hand. This co.
doesn’t; it takes credit for the commission only as it is
actually received ; and though the plan may lead to
erratic figures, for practical purposes it is about the best
—certainly it is safe. The business is highly' profitable ;
capital and reserves last year earned £l2 ss. 6d. Earn-
ings from interest and commissions are not separated:
they totalled £9356. Of the funds, £20,000 is on deposit
with the Government; £26,358 is on mortgage. Assum-
ing an average of 4J per cent, return, the interest would
amount to £1912, leaving £7444 earned as commission.
Dividing that up among the estates, it will be found to
work out at ss. 4d. per cent, of the value in hand at the
end of the year. That is to say, the co. charges, on the
average, about 6s. 4d. per cent, per annum for its services
in connection with realisation as well as ordinary manage-
ment. The charge doesn’t look prodigious even now ; yet
it is certain that, as the system of appointing trustee
cos. to do this work extends, the aggregation of estates
and the consequent reduction of management expenses
will bring about a reduction of charges. It is simply
another illustration of how the big semi-Socialistic con-
cern can give better value than a flock of private agencies
working each one on its little own.
“■The Dunlop Rubber Co., which was the
Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Co. until a bit of Protection
encouraged the co. to open up new branches of the
industry and do a more general business
Dividends.
, ■■ Nominal
Pref. Def. Ord. Total Written Re-
July, Profit, p.c. p.c. p.c. Div. Off. serves.
1900.. £18,554 7 7£ 6 £11,300 £5,518 £1,741
1901.. 14,583 7 7£ 4} 10,250 2,995 3,079
1902.. 10,414 7 7j 1 7,800 1,873 3,820
1903.. 17,304 7 7£ Nil 7,100 7,860 6,164
1904.. 21,770 7 7J 5 10,600 8,661 8,673
1905.. 17,578 7 7£ 5 18,200 3,712 9,339
1906.. 26,131 7 7£ 5 16,780 4,445 14,245
1907.. 35,301 7 7| 5J- 18,210 11,056 20,280
Notice that the reserves are “ nominal.” When the co.
was set on its feet (if it isn’t blasphemy or sedition to talk
of feet in connection with a co. whose business it is to
discourage the use of such things, except to push with),
it had a goodwill item of £125,000 —trade marks,
rights, etc. The corresponding item now stands at
£151,240, less £13,716 written off, leaving £137,524. But
what the “ etc.” stands for it is hard to say. Still it can
safely be said that over £120,000 of the assets are paper—
very good paper, no doubt, but paper nevertheless,
having no intrinsic value. For the original goodwillpfws
furniture and odds and ends, the vendors got £45,000
cash, 20,000 deferred non-cumulative preference (7£ per
cent.) shares, and 70,000 ordinary shares. The cumula-
tive preference (7 per eent.) shares have been issued to the
public to raise the money—at first 80,000, subsequently
another 88,000 as the business was extended ; and a fur-
ther 20,000 ordinary shares have also gone out. The
dividend on the ordinary shares has been put up for the
past half-year to 6 per cent., making 5£ per cent, for the
year. After these ordinary shares have received 9 per
cent., all shares rank alike for dividend. This means
that, with the present capital, £21,360 must be paid in
dividends in a year before the pref. and deferred pref.
shares “ cut in ” for anything more than 7 and 7£ per
cent. ; and to pay 1 per cent, all round beyond that would
call for £2780. Or, put in another way, ordinary shares must
get £3150 more than they got last year before the two
sorts of pref. shares will be entitled to anything further.
The profits certainly are growing in a way that holds out
hope ; but so far as increased dividends go, everything
depends on the speed with which the paper items are
written off, and the speed at present is so slow that if the
stewards were looking the eo. would be disqualified as a
non-trier. Down to 1904 the co. did write a trifle off;
but then it got a puncture, or blew out, or something,
and it stopped dead. The amounts shown as written off
cover depreciation of plant, premises, etc. The liabilities
have increased from £69,675 to £87,778 during the year
(mostly overdraft), the increase being represented mainly
by stocks (£140,141). This last item is so large and is of
such a character that obviously the position of the co.
very greatly depends upon the management’s valuation
being correct.
» * * *
The South Australian Gas Co. :
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898 .. £32,362 12 per cent. = £30,000 £2,362 £78,554
1899 .. 33,636 12 „ „ 30,000 3,636 82,190
1900 .. 33,498 12 „ „ 30,000 3,498 85,688
1901 .. 37,299 12 „ „ 30,000 7,299 92,987
1902 .. 33,466 12 „ „ 30,000 3,466 96,453
1903.. 31,278 12 „ „ 30,000 1,278 97,731
1904 .. 30,922 12 „ ~ 30,000 922 98,653
1905 .. 32,431 12 „ ~ 30,000 2,431 101,084
Premiums on bonds sold .. 84 101,168
1906 .. 35,543 12 per cent. = 30,000 5,543 106,711
1907.. 42,774 12 „ „ 30,000 12,774 119,485
The following partly explains the remarkable increase in
the profits:—
1901. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Sales .. .. £90,617 £96,759 £99,032 £110,295
Interest received 345
Interest paid .. BO9 1,191 1,184
Coal, labor, etc. 88,992 45,868 44,050 45,403
Salaries, fees .. 5,283 5,976 6,395 6,610
Written off .. 7,315 7,740 7,859 9,991
The co. appears to have made a good coal contract,
otherwise the high prices which have ruled for some time
must have sent up the item “ coal, labor, etc.,” far beyond
its present level. Unlike the gas cos. of Sydney and
Melbourne, the Adelaide concern has practically a mono-
poly of gas-making in S. Aus.: it not only supplies city
and suburbs, but also has works at whatever country
towns are worth attention. On the question of deprecia-
tion : the amount shown as written off is split up in two
items —one, wear and tear (£4256); the other, deprecia-
tion of plant (£5735). Together the provision is equal to
about 2J per cent, of the book value of the fixed assets.
Apparently the allowance for depreciation is a sort of
replacement fund ; but, in addition, there is a formal re-
placement fund included among the reserves (£15,000 for
general purposes and £SOOO for meters). In addition,
some ordinary repairs are charged to revenue ; so, alto-
gether, it seems that this co.’s profits are not really dis-
guised drafts on capital, as they are where not enough
provision is made out of current revenue to cover wear
and tear, etc. The net return which the business shows
on capital and reserves is £ll 17s. per cent. The share-
holders and the public that depends on the co. for its
lighting will probably regard those figures with different
feelings. The S. Australian railways, which supply cart-
age to the people just as this co. supplies light, showed
last year a return of £5 3s. 2d. per cent, (apart from the
Northern Territory line, which only showed a return of
Is. 2d. per cent.) Yet, though even that was far ahead
of the average, the Government felt itself called upon to
promptly reduce charges to the public. The co. that
supplies lighting shows a return of £ll 17s. per cent., or
more than twice as much ; and there is no sign up to now
that the public even expects it to reduce charges.
* * * -A
Randolph Bedford pursues a Wild Cat, or a
heavily-disguised tame one, at some length:—“ln J uly last
I wrote The Bulletin in condemnation of the latest impu-
dent attempt to revive the Tasmanian Great Western
Railway concession, and, returning into the places where
newspapers live, a week or so since, I find that an indig-
nant meeting of Hobart promoters, held in August, as
reported in the local Mercury, stated that my criticism
was based on falsehood.
“To be brief, the miserable promoting syndi-
cate, alleged to represent the best of Glasgow finance,
made frantic attempts to get a few hundreds of Austra-
lian money subscribed to engineer the Western Railway
franchise and its land-grant scheme through the Tas.
Parliament. A syndicate called the ‘ R. R. Syndicate,'
was to receive, under the prospectus, £150,000 or more
for the brilliant idea of getting the few hundred pounds.
I stated these facts in the much-cursed Bulletin article
of July 12 or so, and I back them up with some more
statements hereunder.
“The ‘R.R. Syndicate’ is the Roper River Syn-
dicate. It got from a Melbourne syndicate, nearly three
years ago, grazing rights to 4,000,000 acres on the Roper
River, Northern Territory; it fooled that Melbourne
syndicate for a year or two, and then threw back the
4,000,000 acres of grazing rights without payment or
explanation. I have just been handed the prospectus of
this Roper River Land and Minerals Co., Ltd. It was
to acquire the 4,000,000 acres of Northern Territory and
3750 acres in West Africa. The S. Aus. Government was
to be paid Is. per square mile (640 acres) per annum, and
the co. proposed to charge Scotch settlers Id. per acre
per annum for the first seven years, Ijd. per annum for
the second seven years, and 2d. afterwards. The co. was
immediately to begin ‘ building houses and allocating
farms.’ The co. was no small concern, ye ken. Itintended
to stock up at once, and at the end of three years it was
certain ‘ of a minimum yearly sale of 3000 'head of fat
cattle ! ’ Also, it was going to treat 600 additional dumb
beasties a week at ‘ the canning and meat extract works ’
intended to be erected ‘ at once.’
“The same hand that reaches for the Great
Western Railway franchise and its land-grants can be
seen in the prospectus of the Roper River co. ‘Mean-
while,’ it says (meaning that ‘meanwhile' comes
before ‘ at once ’), ‘ the South Australian Govern-
ment will be approached for an appropriation
in aid, usually granted to pioneer industries
founded for developing the resources of the colony.’
The gall of it 1 That was published in London, where
Australian Socialism is accurst because it keeps invest-
ments out of Australia.
“ But the capital and the finance—Chinese and
weird! Capital, £250,000, in 500,000 shares of 10s. Of
these vendors got 100,000 fully paid, and had ‘ the right
of allotment of 399,950 shares, credited with 7s. 3d. per
share paid up.’ These 399,950 were offered at 6d. appli-
cation, 6d allotment, 6d. a month after allotment, the
remaining Is. 3d. to be called at intervals of two months.
The calls were to be sixpenny ones—it is more of the
Chinese finance that Is. 3d. was expected to produce three
sixpences. The remaining 60 shares were offered at par.
These figures work out so;—The £250,000 of alleged
capital was, if the 400,000 shares were all taken up and
paid for by the fool public, to be represented by only
£55,000, and the balance of £195,000 was paper, water,
and hot air. But the wreck of the £55,000 could not
arrive to the credit of working capital until the vendors
had bitten £IO,OOO cash off it, in addition to the 100,000
paid-up shares. After the skite of a quarter of a million
on page 1 of this romantic document, page 7 came down
to this—‘The vendors guarantee the subscription of
160,000 of the 399,950 shares now offered. This should
provide £15,000 for working oapital, which the directors
consider ample for present purposes.’ And apparently
the vendors’ guarantee didn’t amount to cash.
“The Roper River concession has been re-
turned to the Australian syndicate, and the co. is devoting
itself to West Africa and the lobbying of the Tasmanian
Western Railway franchise. No London fools applied for
shares ; hence, alas ! no sturdy Scotch pastoralists are
likely to milk the bull on the Roper. There are to be no
canning and meat extract works, and meanwhile, im-
mediately, and at once the South Australian Govern-
ment will not ‘ be approached for the appropriation in
aid usually granted to pioneer industries, founded for
developing the resources of the colony.’ So 399,950
shares, pretending to be 10s., and failing to be 2s. 9d.,
constitute an ‘industry founded for developing the
resources of the colony.’ My tremendous oath 1
“And yet this same crowd has the ghastly im-
pudence to approach the Tasmanian people on the
Glenora-Zeehan railway scheme.”
« * * *
The position of Wallaroo and Moonta (S.A.) is
making a lot of people anxious. The stock was rushed
up in a most absurd way in the market. Quoted at 31s.
at the beginning of 1906, at the end of that year sales
were made at 91s. 9d. Meantime, there had been abso-
lutely no developments at the mine ; the whole thing was
based on the boom in the copper market. Fortunately
while the boom lasted, the directors—who are very old
dogs on this road—paid for a great many permanent im-
provements out of revenue. Hence the costs shown for
last year are valueless for present purposes. If the co.
couldn’t produce for less than it showed last year it
would now be preparing to shut up shop. Go back,
however, to 1902, when things were about normal. Costs
were then £52 Is. 2d. per ton, f.o.b. ocean steamer, which
would be equal for standard copper to approximately £SO
per ton. Figuring on that basis, also reckoning upon
last year’s output (at £33 per ton) from the leaching pro-
cess, these estimates can be made: —
Profit Profit Profit per
Price of from from Total Share.
Copper. Ore. Leaching. Profit. s. d.
£SO £13,124 £13,124 1 7
55 £27,270 16,984 44,254 5 6
60 54,540 20,844 75,384 9 5
65 81,810 24,704 106,514 13 4
75 136,350 32,424 168,774 21 2
these estimates are based on three things: (1) an
output equal to last year’s (5454 tons copper from
ore, and 772 tons from leaching or cementation);
(2) costs of copper from ore, £SO per ton; (3)
costs of copper from leaching, £33 per ton. But
Moonta and Wallaroo miners work on a sliding scale,
and the wages would bite deeper into the profits the
further the price of copper got past £SO; and that
has not been allowed for in the foregoing. It is impos-
sible to say exactly how much the miners’extra “cut”
would amount to; but with copper at £75 per ton it ■
would probably reduce the profit from 21s. 2d. to some-
where about 17s. per share.
But though Wallaroo and Moonta could work at
£SO five years ago, and possibly at a pinch could work at
somewhere about the same figure now, it is very probable
that, if the market shrank, the co. would limit its out-
put. The Moonta directors aren’t the sort of people who
feel disposed to rush copper on the market at £SO, when
by waiting two or three years they can get £7O for it.
Also Moonta hasn’t improved in the past five years ; there
are sections of this wonderful old mine which can only be
touched under very favorable market conditions; and
that further explains why, as the copper market moves
up, this co.’s costs usually move up too.
* * * *
Now that the lead market has begun to fall
back by half-sovereigns, the old question springs up
like a mushroom—At what price will profits disappear ?
And it isn’t an easy one. When things grow desperate,
every decent-sized mine can for a while pick and choose
its ore, and thus reduce costs per oz. or ton of metal pro-
duced. But still, on past results, some sort of a reply
can be got. Start, then, with the Broken Hill Block 10.
In the half-year to Sept., 1906, it produced 9974 tons con-
centrates, worth 61 - 66 percent, lead = 6150 tons lead,
besides silver. The profit was £40,688, which was equal
to £6 12s. 3d. per ton of lead. That half-year lead
averaged £l6 17s. 9d. ; so costs mopped up all the silver
and £lO ss. 6d. per ton of lead (the difference between
£16175. 9d. and £6 12s. 3d.). In that half-year £6218 was
obtained from sale of by-products (zinc tailings, etc.),
and this amount is included in the profit stated
above. In the half-year to March, 1907, the mine turned
out 9992 tons concentrates, containing 61’8 per cent, of
lead=6l7s tons lead, besides silver. The profit that
half-year (including £12,381 from the sale of zinc tailings)
was £54,444, or £8 16s. 4d. per ton of lead. Lead
averaged £l9 12s. lOd. per ton. Hence in that term costs
absorbed all the silver and £lO 16s. 6d. per ton of lead,
that being the difference between the market average
and the profit per ton. So far as can be judged from
those two half-years, then, Block 10 can just pay its way
with silver at 2s 6d. and lead at somewhere between
£lO ss. 6d. and £lO 16s. 6d. Silver is, however, now
about threepence weaker, and that means about £4125 a
year on Block 10’s output. At 2s. 3d. for silver and
£l7 12s. lOd. for lead, the profit, on last half-year’s basis,
would be £37,969 instead of the £54,444 it actually was.
(This assumes the same payments for zinc tailings, etc. ;
and it seems fair to take it that way, for Block 10 has
made large sale contracts on time payment.) Every £1
fall below £l7 12s. lOd. for lead would cut off about £6175
from the half-year’s profit; and £6175 in Block 10 means
just about Is. 3d. per share.
■’**••*
The British Broken Hill will get another stray
shoot of ore between Howell’s and Thompson’s shafts.
The diamond drill long ago located ore in that locality,
and now the north drive from Howell’s has placed the
matter beyond doubt. The lodes in the British are
the most “ untidy ” along the line ; they sprawl
about in all directions, and one never knows where ore
will, or will not, be found. The 800 ft. north drive from
Howell’s shaft has been rubbing shoulders with some sort
of an ore body for a week or two past, sometimes
grazing the hanging-wall, and then losing it
again as the body has curved away on its
irregular course. The ore was in this way carried


Perpetual Trustee
Company’ (Limited)
Has
Uncalled Capital - £975*000
Perpetual Deposit
with. Govt. • 20.000
Reserves - - - 26,500
£1*021,500
As SECURITY for its
Management of Trust Estates
under 'Wills, Intestacies,
Marriage Settlements, and
Trust Deeds of Every
Description.
2,4» <5l 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE.
Manager.
LOHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE; and at Sydney and Fremantle.
sole agents i for_ OTTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by J. Pobmo, Cologne, as
'supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY. —Excavators and Djredglng Machinery.
importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Eleotrioai Machinery and Materials of ail kinds. [3.
to within about 200 ft. of Thompson’s shaft, when
the lode went away westward. Still, its existence has
been proved. Development work on the eastern vein
hasn’t yet, on the other hand, provided a peg large
enough to hang a good opinion on. The ore on the south
side of the crossout is proving skittish, and the little
there is of it is rather difficult to follow. New poppet-
heads, with a new winding engine behind them, will
shortly be taking a firmer grip of things below ground in
Marsh’s section ; and with the better-grade ore which can
now be fed to the mill, improved returns ought to brighten
the face of the weekly reports.
The difficulties which arose when the Sulphide
Corporation started its granulation slime-treatment plant
on the old Broken Hill Extended lease have proved so
persistent that the plant has had to be temporarily closed
down. Every millman along the line of lode knows how
vexatious the slime-treatment problem is, and perhaps
the B. H. Prop.’s desulphurising method is the best solu-
tion to date. Another beautiful theory in connection
with the handling of slimes went wrong at the Sulphide’s
big new mill. It was intended that the slimes pro-
duced there should be conveyed by filter belts into
the adjoining granulation plant, to be turned into
concentrates, just as the tailings were, and there was to
be no unsightly accumulation of slimes about the mill.
It was a capital idea, but it won’t work ; and as no other
provision had been made, the slimes have to be removed
from the mill by horses and drays.
* * * «
Block 10, Broken Hill, was just shaking itself
free from the grasp of its last creep when a movement
occurred ground Campbell’s old shaft, and production
had again to be eased off while this fresh antagonist was
grappled with. Consequently the mill returns have
suffered, and the elaborate concentrating plant provided
to deal with huge quantities of ore is still a long way from
getting a chance to do itself justice.
* * * *
The Globe Freehold, one of the most promising
of the “ outside ” Broken Hill shows, has died of starva-
tion, like the rest of them. This was a mine that gave
very encouraging prospe ts from the surface down to
about 14uft., and fair promise of ultimately revealing a
solid ore body of payable quality. But, like many
another good-looking baby, it grew up otherwise, and
the crowning indignity came when its little pile of speci-
mens (mostly slugs of galena, of which the manager used
to be so proud) was sold. There is a good engine and
boiler, besides a cottage and a pipe-line, on the lease now,
but no mine. The people who bought the specimens
bought the mine and carted it away.
» • * »
Re the constant growls from Broken Hill about
the scarcity of miners. The A.M.A. says there is a long-
list of unemployed; the mine managers say they want
men, and can’t always get them. Both sides are speak-
ing the truth. In Broken Hill there is always a “ float-
ing” population, drifting from one end of the line of lode
to the other. A party of men takes a contract for break-
ing ore in a stope (say), and for the first fortnight makes
good money. Then the face changes to hard, poor tack, and
theparty“pullsout,”andlooksforabettercontract. If the
men are members of the A.M.A., they report themselves as
out of work. If they are good men they have no diffi-
culty in getting on at another mine next day, but they
may remain as unemployed on the books of the A.M.A.
till they visit the office again to pay their subscriptions.
In prosperous times even men who are in work often join
the unemployed at the mine offices, on the look-out for a
change into a good party, their own job being unsatis-
factory. There is another disturbing factor. Good
miners are making big money just now—some of them
from 17s. to 20s. a shift —and there are men
who, with that much money in their pockets,
feel scornful about hard graft after pay day. Such men
usually have to look for another mine. In some cases,
where contractors get on to easy ground, and the contract
price enables them to earn more than the management
considers fair, the contract price is cut. In that case the
men frequently “ pull out.” These are the causes mainly
responsible for the present anomalous condition of the
Barrier labor market —hundreds of miners looking for
work on one side, and work out looking for them with a
lasso on the other side.
* * » «
In 20 years £377,647 has been spent in N. S.
Wales out of the Prospecting Vote, and all that the State
has got back has been a poor little £1421, which wouldn’t
pay a fifth of the cost of administration. “If,” says the
Auditor-General, “ the chances of prospecting are so
enormously against success, it would appear wise to con-
sider whether the vote should not be discontinued.” The
fact, of course, is that nearly always it is the forlorn
hope—the thousand to one chance, for which the pros-
pector can’t get private backing—that gets the aid. In
the 999 cases the State gets nothing; and in the one
case, it only gets its own pound back. So what can the
Auditor-General expect ?
* * ■* *
“Tom A. Hawke”: The dailies have printed
some ghastly misstatements about Lightning Ridge opal-
field (N.S.W.). There were, the other day, when I left,
not more than 70 or 80 miners on the Ridge. Of these,
20 or 25 were working opal-bearing ground, the rest had
found no opal for the last three months, and some had
never seen any at all. No new ground had opened since
last February, and the miners were dissatisfied, and leav-
ing daily. The fit-id is merely a good winter’s camp for
men awaiting the shearing.
» * * #
“J.K.”: For the real reason of the closing of
Orowl Creek-Shuttleton (N.S.W.), a man has to look
deeper than writer of par (B. 17/10/’O7) indicates. Fact
is, some people consider that there are too many to divide
the profits among. All dead work is just about finished,
the mill is running well, and next month the mine would
have been self-supporting, even with copper at £SO. The
first week of this month only one furnace was working,
and from it matte containing eight tons of copper was
tapped. The present plant can keep two furnaces going.
Great bodies of ore are in sight in both mines. The ore
from the south mine contains no iron. Slag runs off like
water. The pity is the way the closing has been brought
about. Altogether it is a smellfull affair.
* » * ■*
Peak Downs meeting, held in Brisbane last
week, furnished additional evidence of the directors’
capacity for letting shareholders find out things for
themselves. The Board might have said: “ We’ve
made a mess of things. Still, here’s a chance of
someone relieving us of our financial burden. They
offer us very poor terms, it is true, nevertheless we had
better accept them in order to keep the show alive.”
But, instead of putting the thing like that, fairly and
squarely, the chairman moved :—“(1) That the capital be
increased to £43,750 by the creation of 220,000 new shares
of 2s. 6d. each ; (2) that such new shares shall be issued
to such persons (whether present shareholders or not) at
such time or times, upon such terms, and with such
rights and privileges annexed thereto as the directors
at the time or respective times of such issue
or issues may think fit." The meeting wanted
to know some details of the arrangement with the
men who are to take the large block of shares,
but the information was not forthcoming. The Board
had its chance to be candid, but ignored it. It’s up to
somebody else, therefore, to do what the Board neglected
to do ; so here goes.
The mysterious arrangement (concerning which
many utterly false Stock Exchange tales have been told)
is in effect merely an option. Peak Downs will be
sampled, and if it is found capable of yielding on develop-
ment an appreciable quantity of basic ore that will stand
transport to Mt. Morgan, the Mt. Morgan people will
come in and take up a controlling interest. Peak Downs
will then resolve itself into a fluxing proposition, practi-
cally owned by Mt. Morgan. Present shareholders will
hardly get a look-in, for there will be 360,000 shares, of
which the controlling number will be voting for cheap
flux for Mt. Morgan, not for dividends for Peak Downs.
The chairman puts it much better for the Peak Downs
holders, and says in effect that these nice men who are
putting up the money (the mine has yet to be sampled,
bv the way) only want representation on the Board. Ves,
they want representation—the controlling representation.
Supposing the option is exercised, Peak Downs will be in
this position : Assuming 200,000 additional shares are
issued, that will give the co. £25,000. Of that sum
£lO,OOO at least will ultimately be required to wipe out
the co.’s debt, £4OOO at least will be absorbed in con-
necting the mine with the railway, and £ll,OOO will be
left for development. And this is what shareholders who
do not know the position are informed is adequate work-
ing capital! It is—for a flux quarry. That is why it is
quite enough for Mt. Morgan’s purposes.
dr * * *
Mt. Morgan’s Sept, output was worth about
£Bo,ooo—gold, £50,000 ; copper, £30,000. There were
447 tons of copper ; so the fall from £lO3 4s. per ton, which
the metal averaged for the first half of this year, to the
present £6O means £19,300 loss to the co. on a month’s
run=£23l,6oo a year. Still, the co. which can turn out
£50,000 worth of gold a month has a big pull over, say,
the all-copper Wallaroo and Moonta. Moreover, the
£lO3 4s. only lasted six months; the average for
last year was much less. Mt. Morgan’s gold just
about pays all expenses. Last year (to May 31, 1907),
its output was 145,1380 z. gold and 4087 tons copper. The
costs for the year totalled £571,618, plus £24,699 for de-
preciation. The gold (at £4) would be worth £580,552-
enough to pay costs and leave about. £9OOO over towards
depreciation.’ The value of the copper—less cost of
refining and realising—represented the profit. Every £1
fall in copper therefore means, on the present output,
about £450 less profit per month.
* Ik * *
Gympie (Q.) goldfield had its fortieth birthday
on October 16. Its record for the 40 years is 3,412,8480 z.
of gold, valued at £11,945,738. But if it can’t do better
than it has been doing lately, its brilliant future lies
behind it—which is a good place to carry a tail, but a bad
one for a future.
• • • *
“Caradoc”: Tin at £l6O and over—mostly
over—gave Smith’s Creek (N.Q.) the chance of its second
life. Captain Warren built up a money reserve, and
exposed ore reserves sufficient, apparently, to justify a
6d. div. But the sad flop in the metal market has
altered things, and probably if the Board could
live the past six weeks over again there would
be no dividend. Now there is an idea spreading
that it will soon be difficult to produce ore in the neces-
sary bulk which will yield 2f to 8 per cent, oxide ; and as
transit charges and cost of fuel won’t fall with the market,
shareholders are in for an anxious time. Tin at £162 and
a 6d. dividend saw shares at about 10s. They have already
—in less than a month —had sellers at 4s. 9d. Which is
so different from the 20s. that was confidently tipped in
Adelaide.
• * * *
“ The manager of the St. George Copper and
Coal Mines states that he can send away an unlimited
quantity of cinnabar for treatment,” says a wire from
Cooktown (Q.); and Mr. Leonard Green has the same
good opinion of it. The trouble is that Mr. Leonard
Green has had good opinions of so many geese that
haven’t turned out swans. He had (and apparently still
has) a very exalted opinion of this property as a copper
mine. There are some nice patches of grey copper ore,
but they are small and irregular. The country is very
much disturbed and faulted, and no ore deposit is per-
sistent. To make matters worse, water is met at a.
shallow depth, in big enough volume to call for steam
power ; and that is a serious matter when you’re 40 miles
from rail. Of coal the property seems to have a fair
quantity, and the quality is all right; but this also is
faulted and broken up, and would be costly to work.
And, anyway, 40 miles from railway, what is the good of
it at present? So if the St. George has got cinnabar it
can do with it very well indeed.
# * * *
The railway on from Chillagoe to the Etheridge
is making moderate progress. It was thought that men
now working on theCloncurry line would be available in
a couple of months ; but the Hampden-EUiott branches
from Cloncurr.v, just agreed upon, will absorb them.
The rails are laid 15 miles on from the Chillagoe ter-
minus ; but other work has been carried out for twice
that distance.
* * * *
Gilmore tin-mines (N.Q.) have been crushing
200 tons of ore, worth 10 per cent, blank tin, at Kooboora,
and another lot is to go through. The return from these
crushings should place the co. in a strong- financial posi-
tion, but it doesn’t follow that dividends will be increased.
The co. has no mill of its own, and carting and trucking
to Kooboora or Reid’s Creek is out of the question on
low-grade ore, and the mine isn’t all 10 percent, stuff.
It is likely, if the show continues to improve, that a plant
for crushing and roasting the ore will be put up at the
nearest waterhole.
* * * «
“Binklets”: Have just had a good look at
Einasleigh copper mine (N.Q,). Preparations for sinking
main shaft to 400 ft. about completed. Air compressor in
position and working smoothly. Timber for shaft and
other work being cut by sawmill on the spot; costs of
timber likely to be high owing to pottering methods.
Other works run on sound system. At present the in-
tention is to concentrate ore and send it elsewhere for
smelting. An agitation is being carried on to get
Etheridge railway constructed by way of Einasleigh.
They are driving in two levels to cut the lode ; and an
air shaft is being sunk about 300 ft. south of main shaft,
with four men on contract. Around other parts of the
Etheridge not much is being done ; Georgetown seems
flat compared with 12 months ago. The failure of Durham
Consols to live up to the preliminary skite has ruined the
chances of other floats.
* * * *
The desperate condition of things on Croydon
(N.Q.) can be told by the fact that even Bennion’s modest
float wasn’t wholly successful—only about 40,000 out of
50,000 shares have been allotted. Yet the early revival
of the field practically hangs on Bennion’s.
# * * *
Some Westralian results for September :
Value
Tonnage. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Golden Horseshoe .. 22,234 £52,200 £26,165 46/11
Great Boulder .. .. 14,169 48,137 25,877 65/10
Ivanhoe 19,038 43,016 21,046 45/2
Perseverance .. .. 17,417 29,71 S 11,004 34/1
Sons of Gwalia .. .. 12,905 21,979 5,019 34/-
Kalgurli 10,820 30,829 17,504 57/-
Lake View Consols ..12,025 13,198 1,507 21/11
Great Fingall .. .. 21,827 35,141 14,364 32/2
Orova-Brown Hill .. 10,961 30,027 17,844 54/9
South Kalgurli .. .. 8,568 12,450 2,186 29/-
Associated .. .. 9,712 19,474 6,659 40/1
Gwalia South .. .. 1,450 4,352 1,962 60/-
Golden Ridge .. .. 1,720 3,880 1,825 45/1
Oroya-Black Range .. 3,530 8,859 2,805 50/2
Associated Northern .. 3,642 14,142 10,173 78/3
Hainault 5,580 6,690 744 24/1
Ingliston Extended .. 1,985 2,350 40 23/8
Cosmopolitan Prop. .. 5,600 6,163 65 22/-
Vivien 2,866 3,729 52 26/-
Northern Mines, Ltd. .. 9,071 6,589 17 14/6
• * * K
On June 30 Lake View Consols (W.A.) had,
according to official estimates, 158,321 tons of 28s. ore in
sight, as compared with 140,158 tons worth 295. 3d. at
the end of December. Between those two dates 78,234
tons were treated for £81,450 ; so, in addition to furnish-
ing this tonnage, the mine gained on the mill to the
extent of 18,163 tons. _ Allowing for the reduction in
working costs effected in the interim, values are about
the same. Taking present expenditure as a guide, the
dividend value of the reserves now rung out at about Is.
6d. per share. But the co. has other irons in the fire, and
also a big cash balance. This probably explains why the
shares are quoted at the comparatively high figure of 10s.
or thereabouts.
* * * *
The Great Boulder lode (W.A.) is poor and
broken opposite the shaft; at 2200 ft. ;-but, unless this level
turns out different from the others, good value# and solid
ore should be met with about 50ft. north and the same
distance south of the crosscut. Shareholders may there-
fore still live in hope. Hamilton’s workings, isolated
some 1600 ft. north of the main workings, and contiguous
to the Ivanhoe lease, have begun to wear an opulent look.
For some years the name of this part of Boulder terri-
tory was Mud ; but the northerly extension of the Ivan-
hoe east shoot was ultimately picked up in depth, and
since then some 80,000 tons of 50s. to 60s. ore have been
blocked out down to 1500 ft. This is the shoot that the
Boulder No. 1 has a chance of getting in deeper ground.
• * * *
The Ivanhoe management announces a first-rate
development at the 1669 ft. level, where the crosscut has
shown the east lode to be a big body of good-grade ore.
Its width at this point is greater than at any other level
below the 850 ft.; and, as The Bulletin predicted some
weeks back, the find shows that the horizontal hore-hole
put out from the 16th level of the Great Boulder across
the Ivanhoe lease was as unreliable as a Freetrade fore-
cast of the effect of the tariff.
* * * *
When the half-yearly accounts were made up
on July 31st the Golden Pole (W.A.) had produced
£231,009 worth of bullion. About £150,000 had (in addi-
tion to £20,000 capital) been expended in mine equip-
ment and development, and £BO,OOO had been paid in
dividends. On that date, the gross value of the ore
reserves stood at £22,253, or £8591 less than they were
supposed to be in January last, which in turn was £31,560
below the estimate made at the end of the previous July.
The unfortunate co. takes one step forward and slides
back two. Something is said in the directors’ report
about the past half-year’s developments not being of a
very satisfactory nature, and that there are signs of the
reef narrowing with depth. Shareholders may well ask
why this announcement was not made long ago. At the
half-yearly meeting chairman Nat Harper said that the
directors were now on the look-out for another property ;
but they will be handicapped, for they have only about
£6OOO in hand.
* « * *
An apparently new make of ore has been struck
near the Perseverance boundary, in Associated ground
(W.A.). Two crosscuts —one at the 14th and the other at
the 15th level—have been put in, and a little driving has
been done at each point. In each case values have been
satisfactory, but one never knows what is going to happen
in this notoriously unreliable zone. To-day the faces
may be in ounces, and to-morrow in grains.
* * • •
The old, old story: “The mill was pub up
before the mine was ready for it. .. . Had the money
expended in machinery been spent on development, the
present unsatisfactory state of affairs would not have
arisen.” These dismal remarks refer to the Great Tower
Hill (W.A.), and are made in a circular which is under-
stood to be the handiwork of G. P. D mlette, who visited
this mine in company with two experts in the early part
of the year. Doolette’s scheme for giving the property a
further trial is to raise additional working capital by a
preference issue ; bub what with collapsed workings,
indifferent prospeots, and clamoring creditors, the task
of “getting the public in ” is likely to prove harder than
he seems to expect.
* • * •
There is still more money going out than coming
in at the Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.), but expenditure on
new plant is given as the reason for that. Good profits
are promised when the accounts are relieved of this
burden ; meantime the mine is being puffed, and assay
values double and treble the average value of the ore
going to the mill are finding their way into print. This
in itself is enough to arouse suspicion, but there are
plenty of other points of the same sort.
* * * *
Daily paper wire from Ravensthorpe (W.A.):
“ Practically no work is being done on the various mines
held by the Phillips River Gold and Copper Co.” A
later wire from the same place : “ During the past fort-
night three or four hundred men have left the district.
Business is at a standstill,” etc. Ravensthorpe’s reign
has been very brief. But it will come again.
* * * *
The diamond drill may shortly be employed to
test the tin lodes at Greenbushes (W.A.) in depth. Some-
one has estimated that 3000 ft. of boring spread over a
series of holes could be done at a cost of 7s. 6d. per foot.;
and, provided leaseholders can find half of the cost, it is
expected that the Government will stump up the balance
—out of loans, of course.
* * » »
Wheal Ellen (W.A.) isn’t a success; and share-
holders, in the intervals between countingup their losses,
are wondering what has become of the shoot of gold they
were to get, but haven’t found. A little parcel of speci-
mens got the co.’s issue of 14,000 shares off. Cash put up
was £4OOO, 8000 shares being taken by the public at 10s.
Cash to the Westralian vendors accounted for £2OOO,
and they also took 4000 paid-up shares. Everything in the
garden was so lovely at the time that shareholders didn’t
bother to wait for an inspection. They paid over the
money with alacrity and both hands, sank a shaft, and
now find only a foot of stone carrying no gold. They
cannot claim that they have been misled, for they simply
bought without seeing. There is talk about consulting a
solicitor; but the float went through in such haste that
it is hard to tell what was or what was not said or pro-
mised.
• * * *
Chiltern Valley, Chiltern (Vic.), is the biggest
alluvial mine to-day in Victoria. Calls have only totted
up £15,000, while the gold yield has been £1,061,365. For
that £15,000 the proprietors have got £2-22,000 in divs.,
so they haven’t done badly. The co. closes down its
Wallace Consols shaft, thus verifying The Bulletin’s
criticism of that mine, which was to the effect that, as
the original co. had to pay to panel the dirt, it wasn’t
worth much. Chiltern Valley is about to put down a
third shaft to work its ground down the lead from No. 1,
where it should have better luck than at the more dis-
tant Wallace Consols. The co.’s ground last half-year
was only worth £2 12s. 2d. per fathom, or 6s. 3d. per
fathom less than the dirt of the previous six months.
This means that profits have come from under 13dwt.
dirt—which probably accounts for the weight of scrip in
the market.
m * * *
Port Arthur, Piggoreet, onk of the latest
Ballarat flutters, has a north drive in at 200 ft., and 6ft.
of quartz which is “ not too good.” Neither is the
market, and a show into which a lot of buyers went
stands about as badly in public estimation as do the
half-dozen pups near-by. What has never been
made clear is where the payable stone in the bottom of
the winze sunk from No. 1 level went out. Down to 70ft.
good stone was reported. Did it cut out there, or where?
Now newspaper correspondents shift the public eye to a
“ strong body of gold ore in the bottom level.” There is
talk, too, about picking up shoots. This chatter can he
put on one side till the shoots turn up, when the prudent
man will probably decide to make the best of the market,
and get out.
* * * *
New Rices are quiet on the Ballarat market, and
the slackness shown in the work of erecting the 10-head
battery is taken to indicate a lack of confidence in the
property, which, as The Bulletin said months ago, is
partly over old workings. Another rich patch will be
needed to shake up the market.
* * * *
After about five years’ pumping the water is
now just about beaten in the Duke and Main Leads
Consols (Vic.), and the wash opened up during the past
two months looks good enough to at last hatch profits.
* » * *
Birthday Tunnel, Berringa (Vic.), is falling off
in yields, and returns are expected to come down close
to 500 oz. a month. In that case, the co. will only have a
margin of from £3OO to £4OO over working expenses. But
developments are expected going north at the bottom
level.
* * * *
The royalty incubus is mixed up with a
pumping difficulty on the Ballarat East line of reef. The
cessation of pumping by the poverty-stricken Last
Chance caused the partial flooding of the Llanberris
No. 1, and menaces the other mines north on the line.
The Victoria United has been pumping the Britannia
water for the last 18 months, but now that the question
has come up for discussion the Board has declared that it
has had enough. At the root of the trouble is the royalty-
power possessed by the old Llanberris, whose few share-
holders have been quietly drawing dividends for several
years without doing a stroke of work. The matter will pro-
bably be settled without recourse to law, as more than one
of the cos. lately found law expensive. Meanwhile Llan-
berris No. 1 has been obliged to forego a dividend.
There’ll be a rare old clattering of the Llanberris dry
bones before the matter is allowed to reach the Minister.
Mt. Lyell responds gamely to the copper slump,
with an output of 719 tons for September, an increase of
104 tons ; and the October output will also be heavy.
• * * *
Mareeba : Co. is simply hanging on waiting to
see how its neighbor’s prospecting will turn out. And it
is turning out poorly Investor : Can’t advise, no pro-
fit and loss statement having been published.
» « * *
Value of metals other than gold exported from
Westralia between January 1 and July 31 of this year ran
out as follows : Copper, £134,247 ; tin, £101,694 ; silver,
£20,232 ; others, £l4ll. Total, £257,554.
* * * *
A circular issued by the leading hat-makers of
Australia sets forth that the cost of manufacturing in
Australia a dozen hard felt hats of the best quality is 585.,
while in England a hat that at least looks as well can be
finished and packed and put on board ship for 345. a
dozen. The difference is mostly a matter of wages. This
circular was signed by eight hat manufacturers, and con-
stituted a very fair claim to higher Protection. But
because Labor has a dispute with one hat-manufacturer,
it is announced in Sydney Worker that the Labor party
proposes to knock off the Protection to hats in a large,
general way, and do its best to ruin the other seven
makers also ; likewise the small, outlying hat-makers who
didn’t sign the circular. Which would be just the same
as if the coal-mine owners of Newcastle (N.S.W.) locked
out their men because of a labor trouble in the coal-mine
at Collie (W. A.).
* * » •
The Aerial Tramwats which have been erected
for the British arid Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for i andling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co. of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inoh
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm, Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Two sets of Improved Plunger Pumps, Cornish
type, are at present being constructed for the Victorian
Deep Leads G.M. Company (Messrs Bewick, Moreing and
Co.). Each set will consist of two lifts 250 ft., the total
lift being 500 ft. The Plungers are 26in. in diameter, and
each set of two delivers into one rising main, the dis-
charge per day being 5,000,000 gallons. The valve boxes
are made in separate pieces, and the valves are of the
double flap type. The total weight is 150 tons. There is
no balance weight in the bob, but the one set of pumps
balances the other. The Austral Otis Engineering Com-
pany have this work in hand. This Company has con-
structed and erected most of the big volume, deep
alluvial pumping plants now working in Victoria.*
* * • *
In summarising the figures contained in the
annual report of the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society Limited for the year ended 31st December, 1905,
the Joint Stock Companies Journal (London) in its issue
of sth September, 1906, wrote“ He would be an in-
genious manipulator of facts who could take the records
which we have summarised here, and disprove the state-
ment that they show beyond question that the popularity
of the Colonial Mutual is great and growing.”*
« • * W
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* * * *
The best brand for sheep now in the market is
Kemp’s Branding Liquid. It goes further and is consider-
ably cheaper than any other It will scour out and should
certainly be used by those who hope to get a good price
for their wool. E. Rich & Co., Sydney and Brisbane,
hold stocks.*
* * * *
Cobar.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
• * * •
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberbero and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* » • •
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said '“ It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done, Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still there was not £lO of
extras ”*
* • *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald 11.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
■ • * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelbgo. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*


WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Edyson”: Sometimes the bush man’s
dog has horse sense, and I’ve come across at least
one instance of a dog having more ordinary
understanding than his master and the whole of the
latter’s family and connections. The owner of
the dog was Curdie, and he lived out in
the coal country beyond Morwell (Vic.). The
dog’s name was Ticks, and he was no
definite kind of a dog. One day, after being
absent from home for several hours, Ticks came
loping into Curdie’s kitchen, with an old black
felt hat in his mouth. Curdie and his blood rela-
tions were at tea, and when Ticks jumped up and
flopped the old hat into the potato tureen, Curdie
kicked the animal off the premises, and hurled
the bad hat after him. Next morning, when
Mrs. Curdie opened the back door. Ticks
was lying on the mat, with a bandana
handkerchief under his paws. Mrs Curdie
took possession of the bandana, but thought
nothing of the incident. At noon Ticks brought
a large pocket knife, in the evening a leather
watch fob, and late at night a scarf that had been
used as loop for a swag. Curdie imagined that
Ticks was rifling somebody’s hut; and hurled
missiles and shocking language at him when he
came home next day, first with a man’s boot, then
with a billy lid, and finally with a vest.
The fact that the vest had blood on it
attracted the attention of a neighbor of Curdie’s,
and the neighbor was enterprising enough to
follow Ticks, with the result that he found a
perishing scrub-cutter, who had been maimed by
a falling limb. The indefinite dog had been
running in with messages for two whole days
without awakening the understanding of his boss.
No wonder he seized the earliest opportunity of
severing his connection with Curdie, and attached
fiimself to the lame scrub-cutter. Even a dog
ikes to associate with his intellectual peers now
and again.
THE IMPORTUNITY OF THE VERY
THIRSTY.
GENT : “ Beer money! Do I look like it? No,
indeed.”
CADGER : “Excuse me asking, but I’ve had beer
money from much more unlikely coves than
you—even from decent, respectable-looking
coves.”
“ Barb ” : Be the disputation of anthropo-
logical importance(“Snell’ : in B. 3/10/’O7). Words
like that give a par. a clever look, and should be
worth a shilling, anyhow. I gather lower down,
when “ Snell ” eases off somewhat, that he is
desirous of knowing how one can identify Bill
Bushie in a city or crowd. Dear Bulletin, I’d
know him anywhere by the abounding and glorious
misfit of his hat.
* • * *
Education by Post. —Until recently young
people in the country who desired to better their finan-
cial condition by the pursuit of knowledge have been
handicapped by the difficulty of obtaining expert instruc-
tion in general educational, business or technical
subjects. This state of things has now been remedied,
and the facilities of the greatest private educational in-
stitution in Australia may now be brought to their very
doors. Stott and Hoare’s Business College has elaborated
a system of practical and comprehensive postal instruc-
tion in Bookkeeping, Shorthand, Typewriting, Penman-
ship, Arithmetic, Correspondence, Electrical and Mechan-
ical Engineering, Architecture and Building Construction,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, Pen and Ink
Sketching, etc., and effective methods are employed to
prepare by post candidates for all public examinations.
The Principal will forward a beautifully printed descrip-
tive booklet, entitled “ Home Study,” on application to
Dept. 8., StOitt and Hoare’s Business College, Moore
Street, Sydney.*
“Camp-Oven”: Be “Snell’s” query as
to how to distinguish bushies in town without
examining earmarks. The bush person’s toggery
offers perhaps the firmest ground for detection.
The peculiarly-slanted felt hat and loose, country-
store clothing give the show away. The experi-
enced eye will readily pick William Bush out of a
thousand by his walk—forced and slouching. He
is far different from the lithe, well-mounted
figure that he is on his native plains. The
restraint of his new clothes, the choking influence
of a 16in. by 2in. piece of starched linen, tell their
tale. The use of his tighter-fitting Sunday boots,
in lieu of his roomy cossacks, combine with the
hard pavement in giving him a walk like a tired
dog or policeman, or footsore elephant. Then
complexion is generally an infallible test. The
dry inland climate, the constant exposure to all
weathers, indelibly stamp Bill as a pilgrim from
Outback. Don’t bump him in a scrap ;heis as
hard as nails, and generally gives more than he
takes. And at meal times—well, if they all fed
like him, the next day’s hash would go begging
for scraps.
* * * *
“Mani”: The weka, or swamp hen, of
Maoriland is a bird that I have studied for seven
years, and I am Jo nearer her now than I was the
day we were introduced. Take a very large pear,
smear it with honey and roll it in a pile of small,
rusty brown feathers; stick a pair of bright yellow
legs in the side of it near the bulgy end ; stretch
the stalk end a bit, and adorn with an ordinary
hen’s head ; elongate the bill till it measures three
inches, and paint it yellow ; add a pair of small,
pointed, dagger-like wings, anda couple of thin tail
feathers right aft; stuff the inside with the most
dismal, melancholy, lonesome cry you can imagine,
and you have the weka physically. Of the rest
of her I know very little. She lacks manners,
morals and religion. She rejoices when other
people are in trouble, and jeers at and humbles
honest folk if she can—and she usually can. She
loves showy things, and will steal your spoons,
your wife, your good name, or any other bright
thing in your possession ; and with five seconds’
start she will keep her loot for ever. I have never
seen any living thing so quick to hide an article
as this lonely bird which haunts the weird swamps
of Maoriland, and have never heard anything
make such a dolorous cry after it had hidden the
article.
♦ » » *
“ Namoi ” writes :
In answer to “ Larrikin’s ” request for someone to arise
and paint the Australian bush girl as she is.
Well, in the first place, I am a bush girl myself, and
should know something about my tribe. We know and
laugh at the many colors we are painted, but “Larri-
kin’s” color struck me as so humorous I couldn’t read
The Bulletin for larfin’.
I have never worn a man’shat, neither have I put hob-nail
boots on my feet, nor have I ever seen any other girl do
so. My skirts and the skirts of my companions are the
same as those of any other girls, even when we go bees’
nesting.
My blouse has never been allowed to fly in the air.
As for shouting like a man, I would like to hear the
man that possessed a voice like those of some girls I know.
Their cooee is a sweet sound such as “ Larrikin ” or his
gender would be proud to produce.
When I was learning to ride I rode astride, but then
they do that in town now, even after they have learned.
As to whether the bush girl can swear like a trooper, it
all depends on the trooper ; but I never met that kind of
trooper. And she may be as gentle as any town girl in
sickness. Tell me exactly in square feet how gentle a
town girl is, and I will go into the matter. To be candid,
I did swear once, and that was while nursing a sick
person.
I don’t like to doubt “ Larrikin’s” word, but I wonder
if he has ever seen an Australian bush girl ?
‘turn*
“ Maori Mac ” : The joyous story of some
Maoriland settlers. The Government, having
what it considered a suitable block of land for
closer settlement in the neighborhood of Kawhia,
induced a score of families to dwell therein. The
prospective farmers having only seen their future
farms on a beautiful lithographed plan, started into
the wilds with gladness and some farm imple-
ments. They found the country the roughest
between Cape Maria and Sheol, the bush the
heaviest outside Darkest Africa, and the roads,
where they did exist, sludge channels. More-
over, the roads were of a casual character ; they
ran, say, for two miles; then, meeting a swamp or
a big hill or something, they declined to go any
further. The settlers, being cookies and sons of
cookies, took their gruel silently, and bucked in to
win a livelihood from the most unpromising bit of
mud in all Maoriland. After three years’ struggle,
one of the heroes reappeared in civilised parts,
and over a pint of beer let fall some remarks which
made press and Parliament gasp. All goods had
to be carted from Kawhia per packhorse through
thirty miles of bush. The team generally con-
sisted of four horses, and the fatalities averaged
one horse each trip. The survivors had to crawl
on their stomachs over the tops of totaras, swim
rivers, and hang on to cliffs by their whiskers, and
the packman was generally white-haired and a
permanent wreck when he arrived. The women-
folk of neighbors only three miles apart never met,
owing to the impassibility of the roads, and
births, deaths, and marriages had to eventuate
without outside assistance. The marriages were
not very frequent. When a death occurred the
males would sling the coffin from a stout pole and
cut a way through the bush to the cemetery reserve
which the Government had kindly placed at the
service of deceased tenants. Despite the primi-
tive life, the birth-rate did not decrease, and it is
safe to predict that the new arrivals are the
toughest, wildest young animals in Ward’s Do-
minion. When full grown they should be suitable
as beasts of burden for Antarctic expeditions.
Having emptied his pot and purchased a cake of
tobacco, the hairy one departed, hoping that the
wild pigs had left some of his belongings intact.
He was sorry to hear that Seddon was dead, and
trusted that Prohibition would not be carried.
Said he wanted another quart or two in two years
time, when he had cleared some more bush from
his back yard. Then he drifted over the skyline.
It’s a dismal tale, and the “Guv’mint” is talking
vaguely of doing something.
# * # *
“ Dave H. R.” : It is remarkable how far
an Australian aboriginal can see a snake. With
some of them this faculty for the discernment of the
financial agent amounts almost to genius. There
was a blackfellow, named Hubert, on Cobram
station, on the Murray, who could, when riding,
see a snake at a distance of from two to three
hundred yards. One morning when out with
Hubert and two other natives, Hubert, pointing
with his whip, exclaimed “One pfellhr snake
over there.” We all turned our horses in the
direction in which the snake was alleged to be,
and at about a distance of 320yds. we came upon
his snakeship crawling slowly along. Another
time I knew a blackfellow to see a snake consider-
ably over 200yds. away. A white man cannot see
them much farther than 100yds. away.
* * • *
Chamberlain’s Tablets, which are perfectly
harmless, gently stimulate liver and bowels to
expel poisonous matter, cleanse the system, and
absolutely cure constipation and sick headache.*
“Nym”: Sooner or later, the angling
clubs, if not the Government, will have to fight
the yabbie pest in inland waters. With the pass-
ing out of the crane tribes, the rivers teem with
the pest; the irrigation channels and water-tanks
are additional breeding grounds, and even as
early in the anghng season as DecM an angler wiH
land 50 of the insects in an afternoon. Whenever
a crane makes its appearance all the pea-rifle
hoodlums seek its plumes Laughing-jack, not-
withstanding the libels of Abonginaliars, is doing
his utmost to keep down the pest, while tire despised
shag will claim anglers as his friends, instead of
blood-money enemies, in the near future. Turtles,
m the summer, promise to be in the water what
the locust is on land. How a Government can
grant a close season to the Murray is beyond me.
PUSH AMENITIES.
GINGER : “ Never mind, Stinker, old pal,
there’s worse nor wot you are, though they’re bloomin’ ’ard to find.”
STINKER (ungratefully): “ Garni I’ve seen better fellers than you ’ung.”
GINGER : “ Well, you ain’t ’ung yet, Stinker.”
“ Mallet ” (W. A.) : “ Wang,” in posing as
an authority on slang (B. l/8/’O7), is several years
behind the times. It is four years since I left
Melbourne, but his “new claimants for push
favor ” were old before I shook that city off my
feet. “Blitherer” was in use some years ago,
but never found favor to the same extent as
“Boshter,” and subsequently died out. It seems
that it is being revived. As for “ Bog into it! ”
that expression is a good deal older than I am. I
heard, a few days since, a little girl request her
brother to “ bog his frame down here.” I have
struck a few slang terms here (W.A.) that are
new to me; some of which are very suggestive,
“ Scarver to flit from a town secretly, leaving
sorrowing creditors behind—is one, and is pretty
comprehensive. “ Leaving a dog tied up ” refers
to the debts left by the “scarverer.” The most
suggestive term I ever struck is that given by the
W.A. svvagman to his “nosebag”— i.e., “ Please-
mum-do!” This explains itself.
***"*_
“The Prooshan”: Be “Jimmie Panni-
kin’s” suggestion to bush teachers to grow the
golden wattle in their school grounds instead of
Ii - . j ,• , ~ . . i
the imported article, the usual course with the
teacher, as with his department, is to follow the
line of least resistance. Wattle cultivation offers
difficulties, and yields much disappointment and
deferred shade for the voungsters. Last year I
tried very hard for a bit of sulphur bloom. Find-
• j t,.i i . i . u-u t . j
ing a nice little plant about Lin. high, I excavated
a receptacle at the desired spot, and then dug
down for two feet round that young wattle at a
radius of afoot. I left the soil unbroken round
it, and without even seeing a rootlet, I got it
home in a barrow, and set it gently into the hole.
i , iii i , t l. 4. ■ j
Yet that same wattle pegged out. I have tried
rearing wattles from seeds, and duly observed the
rules and regulations applying thereto in the
matter of heat, but got poor results. The hickory
responded more kindly.
m J * *
~T ... „ -i TT „ ,
‘ Larrikin : Jc ull Up Will kindly step
off the verdure in the matter of protesting about
the much used “ yer” of the bushmen. They do
“ ver” and “veps”and “ vnns ” and *‘v”»
I J v. • y u ? i? ? ’ f
into the bargain. Have travelled round a bit
myself, and met with bushmen of all sorts, besides
outbaekers, bush-whackers, flour-samplers, and all
breeds of the bush dialect, and therefore I rise to
remark, with my hand on ray manly chest, that
thev do snv “ver ” And if anv man r-m show
Ln u y v‘ ( o
that they haven t a perfect right to say yer if
they want to, he can hold my hat.
“ Flinderino ” : “ Quan ” (B. 19/9/’O7)
tells of a dingo at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) being
very partial to live pork. The North Queensland
branch of the dingo brotherhood has recently been
displaying a fondness for goat flesh. Near the
Johnstone River, on a tract of rough country,
facing the sea, is an angora goat farm. This
Nanny and William breeding institute was only
founded recently, and until the arrival of Bill
and Nan and their family, the dingo was never to
be found on the seaward side of the range there-
abouts. But now the dingo is making regular
nocturnal visits to the angora establishment, and
carrying off large quantities of juvenile goat. The
goat-breeder is greatly alarmed at the wholesale
cattle-duffing, and is on the lookout for a dingo-
killing microbe.
“Mooch About”: I met the champion
beer-sparrer some years ago in dry Hughenden
(N.-W.Q.). The Hughenden sheep-station is only
half-a-mile distant from the Hughenden township,
Two or three days before the shed cut-out a thirsty
wayfarer entered a widow’s bar. After a casual
glance round he remarked to the landlady: “By
the way, Mrs. Sudden, what’s the matter with
ye r beer? I camped at Hughenden woolshed
i as t night, and all the chaps were talking about
yer beer bein’ sour.” “ What’s that,” exclaimed
Mrs. Sudden, “my beer sour! They’re talkin’
ro t ! Why, I got four brand new hogsheads in
fur the cut-out. There’s nothing sour about that.
You just taste it,” she almost shrieked, handing
the “beer-gun” a frothy pint. He sipped it
slowly, smacking his lips now and then and
looking pensive. “Have another,” she cried,
He did, and opined there was nothing sour about
that beer, and promised to tell the chaps when
they came in. He successfully tried the same
trick at the other pubs.
s* * * •
“Cross Nibs” tells a circuitous tale :
’Twas behind the Paroo. Droughty conditions prevailed,
and all hands available were shifting the mutton round in
search of better menu. The boss’s optics had acquired a
devotional aspect through gazing expectantly for the de-
ferred moisture, when Busty Bob, swag conveyer, swung
into the foreground, and humbly beseeched him to spare
his (Bob’s) feet. The receiving tank at the Pour Mile
1 , in an and condition, Busty was instructed to
take Whalebone, general utility horse, and fill in the dav
w him driving. Arriving at the well, Whalebone was at-
tached to the whim arm bow, and vehemently requested
to parade the circular track. It being the Sabbath day and
112° in the shade, Busty sought the shadow of an adjacent
beef-wood tree, and determined to keep at least one corn-
a fe ’, l °7’ fe .? ling ’
relapsed into a semi“ Somnolent condition, and despite an
appalling outbreak of blasphemy conjured up visions of
his foalhood days. Busty, furious at having his restful
attitude disturbed by unnecessary exertion, rose and with
malice aforethought furiously assaulted Whalebone with a
section of tree. Emulating the resiliency of his name-
sake, the animal bucked ahead, and the whim drum
rocked ominously. For the next hour the horse paraded
his round, but by the furtive way he eyed the per-
son h) the shade he was meditating deeply. Busty was
roused from his lethargy by a loud crash, and, looking
towards the well, saw one of the buckets jammed against
the bumper. With the intention of freeing the bucket,
he stood upon the timbering. Then Whalebone reversed
let loose a lap of wire rope, and the descending bucket
fell on Busty like the crack of doom. When Busty came
round, he removed Whalebone from the bow and stag-
fche honle stretch withithe largest headache his
skull had ever surrounded. The assembled sheep, who
were waiting patiently for their lubricant, moved off
wondering whether the publican had been fined for Sun-
day trading, or a death had occurred in his family.
A SONG OP THE CHASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been hunting now for aeons, man and boy,
And I’ve hunted many diff’rent kinds of game.
The element of risk’s my only joy,
And I’ve been so near to death I scorn the same !
The dark and secret bug within his haunt,
And the flea who strikes in haste beneath the sheet—
Step by step I track, by bedsteads dim and gaunt,
Till at last I strike them lifeless—dead as meat.
I’ve been hunter for a partner at a ball,
Just to hunt the hours with wildly-flying feet;
I’ve been a hunter after girleens one and all
(Now I’m married, and I take a far back seat);
I’ve been a chaser after trams—the last at night;
I’ve pursued the roving keyhole round the door ;
I’ve been hunting for the bed—without a light—
And I’ve often been assaulted by the floor.
I went punting on the certainties that lose,
And in consequence I chased my hard-earned gold.
I went hunting for a loan among the Jews,
But they one and all declined in accents cold.
I went hunting for a friend to pay my fare,
But I had to walk to Sydney on my own—
And now I’ve left off hunting—that I swear !
It’s the poorest kind of pleasure ever known.
N.S.W.
EUNGELLA.


You Really Must
See the examples of Australian Jewels if you wish to
be posted in what is going on around you towards
your country’s progress.
Several of Australia’s Jewels are pre-eminently
the best possible.
Our Sapphires are uneclipsed.
Our Black Opal has no rival.
Our Topazes are unique.
Our Tourmalines are very fine.
We buy them in the rough and cut them. We
mount them. It affords us pleasure to show them
in all stages.
Black Opal and Olivines, set; in fine Gold
£l5 15s.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS :
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures Cash.
“ Quart ” : The Queensland Government is
giving the man who thiuks he has discovered an
economic prickly-pear destroyer a chance of earn-
ing £lO,OOO at one fell pop. The remedy will not
be reckoned effective unless it can wipe out a plot
of the spiny curse within three months, and it
won’t be economical if it costs more than 355. per
acre in scrub country and 20s. in forest or plain
land.
* # * *
“ Barb ” : “Larrikin ” wants to know why
people don’t write of the bush-girl as she is.
Never met a bush-girl yet who wasn’t big-hearted
and plucky, and anxious to welcome the stranger.
Mostly she has an unmusical voice, with a touch
of twang in her speech. Sometimes it is a pro-
nouncedly Cockney twang. She has a tremendous
inclination to laugh at trifles, has a quite inor-
dinate love of fine feathers, and is a bit heavy in
limb and foot. Also there is a wholesome,
open-air look about her usually tanned and
freckled face that is refreshing. Thatch and
foot-gear are, as a rule, neglected. But nearly
every time she’s a jolly good sort. I hold a brief
for the bush-girl.
•* * m *
“ T.H.A.” : Re eccentric people, I knew a
teamster who loaded his waggon with copper ore
in Cloncurry (Q.), drew out of that place a mileor
so, unharnessed his horses, and remained in the
one camp for two years, there being no time
clause in bis agreement. At last the authorities
noticed a wild, hatless individual tearing about
the bush, taiking to himself, and carrying a pair
of winkers. He was captured, and sent “ below ”
for medical supervision, and the supervision led
to his incarceration in an asylum for 18 months.
A brother, in the meantime, sold his team, and
placed the money to his credit. On his release,
he of the winkers and the missing hat returned to
Richmond, on the Flinders. He bought two
more teams, drew his waggons into the black-
smith’s allotment at the side of the shop, and let
his horses go. He covered the waggons with the
tarpaulins, rigged his hammock at the tail-end of
one, and had been there about 18 months when I
saw him. His chief occupation consisted in ask-
ing foolish questions of passers-by and boiling his
billy. He was regarded as a valuable curio, and
was not disturbed.
THESE NEW SYDNEY BATHING
REGULATIONS.
"No, Bill; I bin all me life one of those
as ’ad their barves reg’lar. But never
no more. Hi cannot degrade my man-
hood by wearin' a skirt”-(Articula-
tion fails.)
“The Prooshan ” : Mr. and Mrs. Bumpo
resided at Cow Flat. They had been married a
week, and were growling their honeymoon off.
Mrs. Bumpo’s jaw had a knack of dislocating
when she yawned or rushed into heated argu-
ment. Bumpo was ignorant of this fact. The
candle was scarcely out on Friday night when
Bumpo started his nightly vamp. “Yew tork
about my crowd ! Yew’d orter tork ! What
about yer own lovely talent, ay?” He listened
for her usual volley, but only the clock ticked.
“What about your lovely rich uncle, and yer
lovely rich brother, and all the fine presun’s yer
kidded me was cornin’, ay ? ” Again only the clock
and the sound of Rover licking the fat out of the
pan in the fireplace. “ Sulkin’ is it, me fine lady ?
I didn’ marry no flamin’ sulk,” and Bumpo leaped
out of bed and struck a match. “’Melia ! wot’s
up?” he gasped, on beholding a great yawning
void whence the argument should be proceeding,
and his wife’s lower jaw somewhere near her left
armpit. Bumpo clicked the jaw in, and ’Melia
dealt with his lazy, hulkin’brother Jim, and his
cousin Alf that had done time over a saddle.
Some nierhts he clicks her jaw in three or four
times before the row is over.
SUFFICIENT FOR THE DAY.
THE BARMAID: “ Good gracious , Mr. Fillemup, what wile your wife say when you go home?”
MR. F.: “ My dear girl , I ’sure you thish is nothin'. Why, she (hie) ain’t roused on me
over lasht Tueshday yet, and I’ve been full every night shince. She’sh sheren drunksh
in arrears.”
“ Doolye ” : Would like to suggest a war-
cry for our “muddied oafs,” when they cross the
ocean in search of English scalps. The All Blacks
adopted a Maori war song. Why should not the
All Blues adopt an Australian aboriginal war
song ? The following might put the fear of God
and Australians into the hearts of their oppo-
nents :
Burrim, booreen, bilar boondi,
Moorala berar karni !
Wakara waroi tubilka boondeen.
Yuuibu ! yumbu ! goomeel.
* * * ♦
“ Curlew ” : Despite the common notion
to the contrary, the tarantula is a quiet, well-
behaved animal —a real good fellow to have about
the house. We had a pet one for years (never
handled him, but protected him from popular
prejudice) He had an enormous capacity for
flies. I reckoned him as good as fly-paper—better,
for he cost nothing, was available all the year
round, and was a splendid worker at night. He
would saunter along the wall by lamplight, and
then it would be a bad job for any wandering fly.
The old spider would stand quiet on perceiving his
intended meal, which, with its inborn curiosity,
would wander along to solve tarantula’s identity.
When within reach out would go tarantula’s paw,
and he’d pick up the fly every shot. He was just as
expert with his hind leg, and he had a long reach.
I cordially recommend the tarantula as a desir-
able addition to any quiet family.
* * * *
“Paul Cupid ” : Regarding Pastures Pro-
tection Boards, rabbits and rabbit inspectors, it
is a noticeable thing that for one squatter hauled
before a Court for failing to sufficiently persecute
bunny, 20 or 30 small settlers are pulled
up. It doesn’t seem to matter though the
settler and his family and dogs are con-
stantly pursuing the pest, if the inspector
sees rabbits when he happens along. He
doesn’t notice that the settler is usually sur-
rounded by large holdings, and that these large
holdings replenish his property with rabbits faster
than the settler can destroy them. The fact that
the big man with 150,000 acres has five men (he
mostly has about two) employed to beard bunny
is a sufficient evidence that the little man with
1000 acres has criminally neglected to comply with
the Act. It doesn’t seem to occur to anyone that
if five men are sufficient to destroy the pest on
150,000 acres, according to the rule of proportion
the settler with 1000 acres would only require one-
thirtieth of a man to keep down the same pest on
his holding, and the spectacle of one-thirtieth of
a man, with a fraction of a waddy, running swiftly
through the bush after a rabbit would be simply
astonishing.
m • * #
“Agricola”: In many parts of N.S.W.
a bonus is given by pastoralists for the destruction
of dingoes, in addition to the amount granted by
the Pastures Protection Boards. But the matter
of discriminating between dingoes and tame dogs
which have run wild is one that always leads to
unpleasantness. Pure-bred dingoes are rare now,
for the dingo has been crossed with tame dogs of
almost every variety. Inconsequence “ringing
in ” is often attempted, and is often alleged even
when it hasn’t been attempted. The men who
are capable of judging between the dog that is
partly dingo and the dog that is all dog, when the
skins alone are available, are few and far between,
the argument is very unsatisfactory. In conver-
sation with an old trapper I gathered the follow-
ing hints. The head of the dingo cross is larger
than that of the domestic dog, and the feet are
also larger. But most certain of all tests is that,
underneath the coarse hair of the animal with
dingo blood is a close fine fur. In the domestic
dog this fine fur is totally absent. Due con-
sideration of this matter might save some violent
recrimination between Bill Trapper and Augustus
Sheep, Esq., of Sheep Yale, pastoralist.
■*■* + *
Sir Henry Thompson says : —“ More than
one half of the chronic complaints which embitter
the middle and latter part of life are due to in-
digestion and kindred complaints.” They may
be prevented by the judicious use of Chamberlain’s
Tablets and adopting a diet suitable to the age
and occupation.*
“ Elmore ” : My young hopeful, instructed
by his schoolmistress, has been collecting insects
of every description, impaling them on pins, and
taking them to school for an alleged nature
lesson. Now, on stringy-bark saplings lives a
green grub about an inch long, with four yellow
flowers growing out of its back. It looks like a
miniature devil in its Sunday clothes. If you
touch it, it stings about six times a second, each
sting equal to eight hornets. I don’t know its
name. So I gently persuaded one into a match-
box and sent it to my hopeful’s schoolmistress,
telling him to be sure and find out what it was.
He came home howling, and said the teacher
wanted to see me, and the insect’s name was “jam
and plaster.” I don’t think he’s got the name
right, and I’m not going to ask the teacher. I
never heard of an insect being named “jam and
plaster.”
* * * *
From “ W.J.A.” :
Five years ago I roamed over the Tweed River district
of N.S.W. The Macpherson Range and its spurs were
covered with tangled vegetation, through which in many
places it was impossible to pass. Huge fig and myrtle
trees, roped together by twisted lawyer vines, formed a
canopy which obscured the sky. In those dim recesses
palms and ferns and burrawangs and other tropical plants
grew in profusion. Innumerable green flock pigeons
made the scrub their home, feeding on the myrtle and
bangalow berries. Orange and black regent birds and
satin birds flitted across the glades. The peculiar crying
tone of the cat birds was incessantly heard, whilst it was
not unusual to hear the “ pit pat ” of the wild turkey on
the dead leaves. Padd.vmelons abounded, as did huge
“ gohannas ” 4ft. to sft. long 4 .
Recently I revisited the scene. I stood on the summit
of Observatory Hill at Tweed Heads, and looked towards
Murwillumbah. Where once the virgin scrub grew is
now denuded of vegetation. The long succession of un-
dulating hills looked uncannily bare, just like the shaven
heads of reclining giants. North of Murwillumbah
Government reserves have been thrown open, and fire and
axe complete the destruction. Cane and dairy farmers
take no heed of natural beauties. The natural habitat
of the birds is destroyed, together with their store of
native berries and other foods. They are driven to the
thinly-timbered and hungry forest country further inland,
which cannot afford them an existence. It is deplorable,
but the voice of the cocky is loud in the land, and soon
there will be no beauty, only sugar-cane and cows. The
progress of the country cannot be impeded by sentiment
and sacrificed for the preservation of our natural flora
and fauna. Besides, Bull wants cheap butter, and the
face of the country is changed accordingly. I for one am
sorry, and so will be every bush-bred Australian with the
music of the bush in his soul.
* * • •
“ W.W.” : A big sheep-run in Moree
(N.S.W.) district used the shearing machines this
season for the first time. A Caledonian person,
named, of course, Mac Something, has been over the
shed for the past 25 years, and has a record for dis-
charging more men than any other boss in
N.S.W. On the morning the machines started,
when the whistle went for breakfast the engine
stopped, leaving one shearer with only half his
sheep shorn. Mac charged the shearer open-
mouthed with, “Are you going to finish that
sheep?” The shearer: “How can I when the
engine’s stopped?” Mac, louder: “Are you
going to finish shearing that sheep ? ” Shearer :
“How can I!” etc. Mac (very wild): “Let me
tell you, my flash fellow, that there’s only one
boss over this shed, and that’s not you. Now,
will you finish shearing that sheep, or leave the
shed?” Collapse of shearer.
THE BLACKFISH POOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I know a deep, dark pool along the creek
That no one knows but I
Save a few wrens, a ring-tailed ’possum sleek,
Who stares at me with brown eyes, soft and meek,
When I go stealing by.
It’s there one can, with hope, cast in a line
Beyond a bank of sedge ;
And in the bracken and the grass recline,
Hid well by ti-tree and clematis-vine,
Close to the water’s edge.
A log dips in, and its dark underside
A likely covert looks ;
For here’s a pool where blackfish love to bide—
In snaggy coigns and little shelves they hide,
And haunt sequestered nooks.
My instinct tells me that a gallant fish —
A good two-pounder, sure—
Will come to-day, in answer to my wish
To grace the table with a pleasant dish,
The victim of my lure.
The lure—a piece of cork, a cord of brown,
A dogwood stem for rod
A little wriggling worm that will not drown,
A tiny leaden weight to hold it down, —
Look ! Did the floater nod ?
It’s such a place as this the blackfish love ;
So deep, and dark, and cool, —
With blackwood boughs and eucalypts above,
Wherein the whipbird wakes the bronze-wing dove
A still, bush-hidden pool.
VIC.
O. G. A. COLLKS.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address m ust appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Tom Gale: You talk of'locking the Darling,
and by irrigation “ growing produce in superabundance
over a vast area,” and at the same time “calling into
existence a vast river traffic that would vie with the
bustle of the Mississippi itself.” It is a fine, big, loose
whoop, but however vigorously you dam a spoonful of
water you can’t make it an ocean... .Wareek : Carefully
note that Mary Ann threw bottles over the fence
Deu W. : We’ve been at Toowoomba, and thought it the
liveliest place of its size we ever struck... .A Wild Cove
Who Writes in Violet Ink : If you loojt back about a
dozen years you will find an article headed “ Public
Notice,” in which The Bulletin intimated that Australian
titles were off, and would remain off. Titles belonging
to people in England, or to people who are merely tem-
porary visitors from England, we don’t mind. We
want to see titles discarded in Australia ; other
countries can have the disease if they like. Where-
fore Prince Borghese, the motor-man, gets his title
in Tiik Bulletin, and W. Lyne doesn’t Cleve-
land : Joke dates back to the coaching days in
Britain. Two brothers left Edinburgh for London. Near
York one nodded at a field and said “ fine wheat.” They
reached London and spent three weeks without speaking.
On the return journey the other nodded at the field and
said “Aye.” C.L.B. : “Fleet” not first-rate in any
place, and too many false rhymes.. ..Benighted : The
discount that Abraham got re Sodom was SO per cent....
Richmond : All solid truth, but your style isn’t bright
enough to make people read the stuff. Also you are
woefully deficient in your postage. ..Brad: Your indig-
nant statement that “Jimmie Pannikin” is all wrong,
and that “James Drinking Utensil ’’ couldn’t have lately
seen the wattle because “ it doesn’t bloom in the spring,”
may arise from the fact that there are hundreds of miles
between you and “Jim Dish,” and latitude and con-
ditions may make a difference, and there may be various
wattles. Even the sheep doesn’t ripen at the same season
all over Australia, hence shearing' dates differ... .Pal: Its
gloom reminds us of Job and his three Uncomfortables...
N. Ellis : “ Miser ” destroyed. Some force about it, but
the style is too wooden.... H. E. Stewart : (1) The article
on Wesley was written by a man who is simply a joyous
Pagan and who never had any more connection with the
R. C. Church than you have. (2) You say The Bulletin’s
“ tone is strikingly offensive to all things Protestant.”
If by “ things Protestant ” you mean that Methodist
preacher who called down the curse of God on Australia
unless it freely admitted all Asiatics and niggers ; and the
WATCHMAN-Diil-Macky-Wilks push in N.S.W. which
nominates on the “ Protestant ticket ” none but Free-
traders, advocates of sweating, opponents of Australian
manufactures, and people who demand the free admission
of the goods made by low-wage Roman Catholics,
Buddhists, Mohammedans, etc., to deprive the Australian
mostly-Protestant workman of a job ; and if you include
that crowd of Protestant parsons who always shout for
the Kanaka and the Stinking Fish party-well, in that
case it is time to be offensive... La Per: There is a
Leichhardt railway station in Victoria anyhow, likewise a
Homebush ; and there is a Homebush in Queensland....
G.G. : Hardly Worth space Barnabas: (1) Because
there is a good seven days work per week on the paper
without politics. (2) Yes ; almost certain. (3) Yes ; The
Lone Hand will forward those covers gratis Sun Sim :
They don’t reach the standard Miss J. G. : Sorry it is
quite unsuitable F.J.W. : Verse too flat and stodgy...
Hypo : Too crude, as yet V.: A cheerful bit of
lunacy M.D. : Rather feeble of interest... Job T.:
You are eminently unfitted to deal with the subject
W.A.T. : Your “ Vision” should have been labelled “A
Nightmare.”... Wamba: Very trim and prim, but
perfectly empty of inspiration or suggestion
Tom Longy : Commendably pithy, but you don’t make
your meaning clear enough... .Dion : You do not suffi-
ciently rise to the occasion... .T.W. : Rather far-fetched
and gratuitous W. Waldron: Told with some spirit,
but hardly worth telling at all C.K.A.: Powerful, but
too liable to misconception J.C. (Q.): Well-meant, but
painfully wooden and mechanical Dana: Too cluipsy
and ill-balanced Murkah : Still short of the mark
G.W. : Yes, there is promise ; but be more explicit.
Impressionism requires consummate skill Saphead :
You don’t begin to succeed Jas. T.: Sorry it isn’t good
enough O.S.G. : Good descriptive power. Try again.
. ...K.C.B. : Versification too rocky J. Brown: Both
rather feeble and commonplace.. ..G.W.G.M.: Spirited,
but very faulty in workmanship... .The Prodigal: We
think we have already warned the other “Prodigal”
against the use of your pen-name .. .H.T. : Fairly funny,
but hardly W'orth print E.A.W. : Your versification is
still very shaky G.S.G. : “Daddy Christmas” almost
squeezed in.... Bromide : Your touch is too heavy for the
theme X.Z.X. : You don’t throw any new light on that
weary old subject Corax: Absurdly bad... .T.T.C. :
Too discursive and gossipy Wal F.: We don’t think
there is any use in your persevering. The “root of the
matter” is apparently not in you “Para”: That
“women’s work only” episode happened weeks ago,
and everybody has heard of it B.J.H. : The intentions
are good, but the less said about the results the better...
Woori: The summing-up of your work-hating effusion is
worth printing :
Now, nature plants the boxtree grand,
For a better, nobler reason
Than sweat a man in this fair land ;
It just amounts to treason.
’Twas grown to bring men to its breast,
To shelter the opossum ;
And give a man a quiet rest,
To gaze upon its blossom.
....B.J.H-O. : Yet another “ Awake !" poem of exceed-
ing badness Hasahgn : There is no obtrusiveness in
the matter. We like a “ sticker,” but even “ anapaestic-
tetrameter ” doesn’t save the thing’s life Wurlee : It
has no point or relevancy T.T.H. : There are poetic
gleams in you, but your lack of skill is lamentable....
Sassafras : You say nothing at great length and with much
ingenuity Aemac : A purely local matter One of the
Downtrodden Israelites: Deciphered your pious yarn
with difficulty, and learned therein that “Christianity
has judged you a true servant of God, and God has judged
the earth.” Well, you may be a true servant, but your
letter had only a penny stamp on it and it cost us 2d.
Wrock: You may be right about the lifting power
of the crow, but you aren’t about his courage. And the
lady who wrote that par lives far out in the mountains,
and is a close observer. So we take her word for it.. ..
LucyMcS. : Haven’t seen anything of “A Sad End" at
time of writing. Letter was short of postage Perhaps
packet containing “ A Sad End ” was ditto. Remember
refusing some packets last week because Sd. each for
short postage seemed too much of a gamble.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A. Sewell: Sketch of no artistic value, and gag fairly
horrible... .Devine :It doesn’t hold out much promise...
Spence : Humorous, but rather too erratic and scratch}'.
F.C.: The statement that all the rest of the regiment
was out of step was made about the Crimean war time.
Eyre: Not a hope about them Tom F. : “Cup
Dream” passed out Princeps : May the Lord have
mercy on your picture and your joke... .Margaret Boyce :
Regret to say no photo of a tree yet to hand.


!•«?** is I-
trjovt fylgjfyy ©(' *>ll Sj>€clGS of lhd«S^Ky.
C A § e )
Freetrader Ceoi "*
L “t?**"* nrx i !
See*,s
wliicl) requn'es
1 "
" Mrw.A MXeod c)
d&rtliried Scheme op
ihp&.H'f pe^sto»is.
ik,
arf~
i -
€»>dc j
e/
' fo.^-r twcH “
vj e \ Dcj'oi-teJ
Too! "
< J,
w\\W\\(i . oh M>7 wed
'TVje e*j>v,yon Su^*-J>iroducHon
\ir\Ativ WWite. UW i$ not"AK‘"% J’Uct
in No/iffyem % W171C17 V’o
ffye ho trie of $e
CVf« t 'but'm Pf«
'
S r S A
on t^-e^e!
j'ooiscrdvj
for license !
sri«lp c
W. L*/
AppeaO O v/l ™ -w
o2tWy k
s,ubrcme *it to „
'Aisre&rA' UgaJ
decide ca*«S™
i\ evidence • y^~<
L A s e l
" Don I- ©o Vo Ud bowled -)y you do you
*be ro sw£*r ro %e winner when you "We
MS«*I Cub <4re<\«i f "
I See 4 'inj
dt'oym' SCwl'l'ilom*,
'bo«r>> . Off wid '/‘s
flayer, Bill I'
HORSE AND SUNDRIES.


THE NEW CANTANKEROUS INFANT.
BIG WILLIAM (to new Ma State Premier ): "WELL, MY LITTLE MAN, I HOPE YOU'LL BE MORE REASONABLE THAN
INFURIATED STATE KID WADE: “I WON’T. I'LL JUST BE AS NASTY AS I KNOW HOW. i'M GPOMG TP BE MASTOER
AND MORE UNREASONABLE THAN THE LAST INFANT. DON'T TALK TO ME, OR I’LL HIT YOU IN THE
EYE WITH MY FEEDING-BOTTLE.”


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled*
Is now undor the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Facilis decensus. The High Commissioner-
ship has been for weeks offered—by the Sydney
press—to G. Reid. Now they sort of offer it to
Carruthers. And all this while there is R. D.
Meagher lingering about with an unfulfilled
promise to redeem his young life in some other
clime.
A pioneer of Sydney shipping, Captain
George Dryden Nicholson, died at Eden (N.S.W.)
on Saturday, aged 87 years. He came to Sydney
in the brig City of Aberdeen, in 1842, and was a
pioneer of the coastal shipping trade. In 1874
he circumnavigated Australia in the clipper
schooner Ellen.
By medical orders, Alfred Deakin now
takes his sleep in the open air. A canvas screen
has been erected at the Walsh-street house for
the purpose of enclosing Deakin. In spite of his
valiant attempts to settle down to work, the
Prime Minister has not yet recovered his proper
health.
Queensland Premier Kidston has struck a
word that fits the character of Robert Philp better
than his own skin. Philp was indulging in one of
his rambling and waspish attacks, when Kidston
interjected : “You are really a very paltry man ! ”
The word sent a thrill through the press gallery—
it fitted Philp so perfectly.
According to his own statements on board
the Orontes, Dan O’Connor has brought out a
special blessing from the Pope for Cardinal Moran.
Here Sydney Telegraph missed a chance to
point out that under this odious tariff Dan will
have to pay 25 per cent, duty—under section 386,
“Articles n.e.i. for advertising purposes.”
Pat Hannan, prospector of Kalgoorlie
(W. A.\ is still battling for gold in the backblocks
of the West. At latest he was working a small
show in the Edjudina district, and good crushings
were expected. Since the days of Hannan's rush.
Fortune has had more scowls than smiles for this
plucky old greybeard ; but it looks as though
Fortune had at last got a bit ashamed of itself.
It was conveyed confidentially to a popu-
lar State Governor, the other day, that what
ladies call a pretty surprise is in store for him on
his retirement from his Excellencvship. The
surprise, it was intimated, would be a specially
prepared sheet of photos of the city and suburban
aldermen who have held office during his Ex.’s
reign. His Ex. is now concealing his emotion all
he can.
THE ORIGIN OF A NAME.
CURIOUS tact in astronomy.
The names of the various articles that have
become celebrated in commerce owe their origin
to the most various and often to the most
singular circumstances.
One of the most celebrated of all trade words,
Odol, the name of the celebrated dentifrice, came
into being in consequence of a remarkable
accident. It is said that the inventor of Odol
spent months in puzzling himself to discover a
name for his new preparation without arriving at
any satisfactory solution of the difficulty. He
had fashioned names enough to fill an encyclo-
pedia; but everything that had suggested itself
had been subsequently rejected. One evening,
however, he chanced to pay a visit to the
observatory of an astronomical friend, whose
telescope happened to be focussed upon the moon.
Upon looking through the telescope he ob-
served, much to his astonishment, clearly written
upon the surface of the satellite in the form of the
great lunar craters, the word Odol. Probably no
name of world-wide celebrity ever had a stranger
origin. Odol has since created a grand record in
the matter of dentifrices.
There is not a civilised country in the world in
which Odol is not known as the greatest
preparation for cleansing and preserving the teeth
and mouth, and the millions of bottles of Odol
which are sold every year afford an irrefutable
proof of the universality of its use and of the
flavor with which it is received. These two facts,
indeed, speak louder than anything else of the
excellence of the preparation, which can only be
compared to itself, for it has no parallel.
“ J.A.C.” : London papers have been dis-
coursing on Rameses 11. in connection with a
lecture delivered by Professor Neville at King’s
College, London, on the recent discovery
of the Eleventh Dynasty temple in Egypt.
Rameses is dead, which is a pity, for
he was a fine humorist. He could
have made good copy out of the
' wire-netting business, although his
humor was more practical than
otherwise. He inscribed his
name on every object of note in
the kingdom, irrespective of the
fact that some of them were a
couple of thousand years older
than he. His object was
to bamboozle future anti-
quarians, and when his
Lord Chamberlain,
a matter-of-fact,
commonplace
Egyptian,
hinted that
such would be
the result, it
saddened
Rameses Two
to think that
the point of his
pleasantry had
been missed. But
tlie pyramids were
his pet joke. He
would point to them
and say to the awe-
struck Cook’s tourist,
“There they are; they
took a lifetime to build”;
and then, with an inward
chuckle, he would add, “ and
they’re no use now they are
there.” Although perhaps un-
appreciated in his lifetime, his
humor lives.
Tom Playford, of S. Australia,
ex-State Premier, ex-Federal Minister,
and ex-Agent-General, is leaving his little market
garden at last.
The first copy of N.S.W. Parliamentary
session notices contained one old warrior. This is a
motion from little Broughton to dosomething about
an obscurity named Roberts, who was sacked for
reasons now forgotten, from a State Department
years ago. Cabinets come and go, members change,
and Premiers do likewise, but each new session
this little log bobs up again, and is rolled a little
further.
The late Premier See heads the list of
N.S.W. Premiers as a contributor of probate duty,
the 10 percent, on his £178,825 coming to £17,882.
Donaldson, the first N. S. W. Premier, died weal thy,
but he left his money in England. Charles Cowper,
Alexander Stuart, and Patrick Jennings were
rich men part of their lives, but thinned down in
their final years. Most of the rest carried sticks
to beat off wolves with.
R. R. Garran, the long, lank, genial law-
limb, who goes to England on the Commonwealth
Income Tax appeal case, continues the luck of the
Garrans. The late Andrew Garran, father of the
Secretary of the Federal Law Department, was
always about when State plums were ripen-
ing in N.S.W., and was rarely forgotten by which-
ever party was in charge of the tree. The son
possesses much of the father’s capacity for being
about at the right moment, and has wit to boot.
“ D.M. W.” : The McLachlan of Ashburton
is a thorn in the flesh, which the dignity of
Maoriland Parliament can ill bear. Lately he has
kept his boots on, but he slumbers nightly in his
seat, emitting strange noises ; also his luxurious
ringlets have a disordered look, and his visage has
a fiery radiance. But when the spirit moves the
McLachlan to talk he does it fluently and well, and,
in fact, so low has oratory sunk in M.L. Hall
of Talk, there are not a dozen better speakers in
the Assembly.
The friends of W. H. Judkins, of the
ti-tree crown, are appealing through the press for
funds to send William Henry abroad for his
health. The applicants say that Willie broke
down “in the performance of his public duties,”
and want cash to send him somewhere. About
the earliest response, probably from a publican,
was a battered thrum stuck in a card on which was
written: “ Yes, with pleasure. Send him to
Hell.”
His Honor who complained the other day
of a witness appearing in a Sydney court in shirt
and trousers, followed the model of an English
Judge in the form of his remarks, but unfortu-
nately the witness did not behave as the English
witness did. “When you appear before the
Court,” said Lord Ellenborough to a coatless
bricklayer, “it is your bounden duty to be clean
and decent in your appearance.” “ Upon my
life,” exclaimed the unabashed bricklayer, “I’m
every bit as properly dressed as your lordship.
You’re in your working clothes and Pm in mine.”
Every few days lately the cables have
mentioned that the Duke of Rutland says that
Socialism is “poisonous.” Rutland is head of
the English bad-Manners family, which for hun-
dreds of years has sucked the blood out of over
60,000 acres of the richest coal and other lands of
Derbyshire and Leicestershire. By way of still
further spreading information, the papers might
find out now what Australia’s own rabbit pest
thinks of strychnine and phosphorus. Then, if
they will print the two opinions together, Aus-
tralia will get some idea of what Rutland’s views
on Socialism are worth.
As anticipated, J. W. Holliman, the little
man whom Carruthers lifted over the heads of
dozens of his seniors into the position of Under-
secretary at the N.S.W. Treasury, on the plea
that it was a temporary make-shift sort of job, has
been permanently f!|ged in the billet. Holliman
jumped from £6OO as secretary of the Public Ser-
vice Board to £825, and has a steady rise to £lOOO
in front of him. These sudden and kangaroo-like
bounds on the part of Holliman greatly disconcert
the more plantigrade members of the service, some
of whom accuse him of grinding an axe some-
where. But that is wrong. No man encumbered
with an axe and a grindstone could leap up the
pay-sheet as Holliman does.
Ben Rounsevell, who was for over 20
years a member of the S. Australian Parliament,
and for over four years a Minister—in those days
he was something glittering in the wine-and-
spirit line—now devotes himself exclusively to
the Cow industry. He goes to bed at 8 p.m.,
gets up at 6 a.m., and lives at peace with all men.
The other day, at the Adelaide Show luncheon,
he turned up and said eulogistic things about
Labor Premier Price. While he was in Parlia-
ment he always fought under the National Ass.
banner; but he has had time to think over
matters since then. The Cow isn’t a good
political companion as a rule ; but she seems to
have been more serviceable company than the
Ass.—in this case, anyway.
THE END OF A HARD LIVER.
OWNER : “He does aery well accordin’ to his
lights, but the brute’s lost all heart.”
FROEMD: “I see. Got no pluck.”
Morris, the N.S.W. claimantfor the “Page
millions,” has started for England. He is an
elderly man, and has been for some years in
Katoomba, where he was interested in the univer-
sal industry of snaring the innocent tourist, and
providing him with bed and board. Morris has
floated himself into a limited co. of £lO,OOO. He
gets half of the shares, also £250 hard cash, return
tickets to the Cold Country for self and family,
and £l5 a week for exes, during a six months’ stay
in Bullville. The co. in return will get a big slice
of the 60 square miles of London which Morris
hopes to bring back in his portmanteau.
Veteran botanist Charles Walter died at
Melbourne last week, after keeping a learned,
inquisitive eye on the Australian flora for over 50
years. He was born in Germany 76 years ago,
and put in four or five years in the Victorian
Government service; but most of his scientific
work was done for the economic botany depart-
ment of the Technological Museum at Melbourne
Public Library. For that institution he compiled
a vast and amazing catalogue of Australian grass-
seeds, barks, fibres, resins, etc., etc. People who
understand these matters ranked him next to the
late Von Mueller for knowledge of Australian
greenery.
In his football days, C. G. Wade, of N. S.
Wales, was known as the “ Wild Colonial Boy,”
but only in his capacity of three-quarter back.
He was a rusher, and was able to work with his
mouth shut, even as he is now, which helped him
to last. He played with England against Aus-
tralia and with Australia against England, and
did well both ways. When he joined the Bar he
was given an early lift as Crown Prosecutor.
Carruthers made him Attorney-General. Cir-
cumstances made him Premier. And now, when
he likes, he can make himself Judge. And all
this in a few years. His father, Burton Wade,
was for manv years Chief Railway Engineer in
N.S.W.
John Wren intends giving the boxing
business best. He will run his Pavilion till after
the Cup Week fixtures have been negotiated, and
then step out and leave the game to dimmer lumi-
naries. Although boxing was never more pros-
perous in Melbourne, J.W. claims that he has
been upholding the noble art purely for art’s sake,
and that he comes out short of a large wad of his
honest savings. He is cutting free, not because
of the alleged loss of the honest wad, but in pur-
suance of a desire to lead the simple life. Since
the tote eclipse John has been gripped with
serious promptings and strong stirrings of the
spirit. He wants to figure as a citizen of high
repute and fatted respectability, and is going into
tea and furniture and other big business dealings
in a tremendous red shop, conscious in his cute
way that this is the nearest cut to grace and social
acceptance.
Apropos of the Rxgnold-Coppin marriage,
here is the Coppin family tree from “ Burke’s
Colonial Gentry ” (1895): —
George Selth Coppin, of Pine Grove, Richmond Hill,
near Melbourne, and of The Anchorage, Sorrento-on-the-
Sea, Victoria; M.L.C., J.P. Born at Steyning, County of
Sussex, England, Bth April, 1819. Married first at Mel-
bourne, 1855, Harriet Bray, and by her (who died 2nd
September, 1859, aged 39 years, and was buried in the
Melbourne Cemetery) has had issue :
(1) Polly Bishop, born 26th May, 1856 ; died 21st
February, 1858.
(2) Blanche Brooke, born 19th January, 1858, married
George Ashton, of Richmond, Victoria.
(3) Amy Maude, born 27th August, 1859.
He married secondly at Melbourne (1861) Lucy Hilsden,
of Cambridge (England), and by her has had issue
(1) George Selth, of Sydney, N.S.W. ; born 26th Novem-
ber, 1866.
(2) Frederick Hilsden, of Kyneton, Victoria ; born 6th
April, 1869.
(3) A blank.
(4) Constance Ada Lucy, born sth January, 1862, mar-
ried in 1884 to R. C. Anderson, and died in 1886.
(5) Georgina Harriet Dora [Mrs. Geo. Rignold], born
25th July, 1864.
(6) Emma Edith, born 30th October, 1860.
(7) Lucy May, born 6th October, 1863.
(8) Daisie Eva, born Ist June, 1875.
Mr. George Coppin’s father was a medical man ; his
grandfather a clergyman. When he arrived in Sydney in
the early ’forties, he was accompanied by Mrs. Coppin,
but of this lady no mention is made in “ Burke.”
Hubert Alexander Baillie, who was some-
thing of a baronet, and used to have his board and
lodging in Melbourne, is dead in England, aged
48 years. The Baillies are old Victorians.
Thomas Baillie, son of the first Bart., pursued the
jumbuck on a large scale with great profit, and
was the father of George Baillie, the third baronet.
George was born in Melbourne in 1856, and was
schooled at the Scots College; Robert Alexander,
recently dead, was also born in Melbourne, and
married a daughter of David Elliott Wilkie, M.D.,
M.L.C., an old Victorian colonist, who, when a
member of the Royal Society, read a weary paper
on “Squaring the Circle.” “Fire-low” Price,
son of John Price, killed by convicts at Williams-
town (Vic.) breakwater in 1857, married a
daughter of Tom Baillie, of Toorak. The deceased
Robert Alexander inherited the gaud and the
tinsel 11 years ago.
Dan O’Connor—Australia’s own tremen-
dous Daniel —came back last week in a blaze of
whiskers and glory. His plug hat was a radi-
ance, and his frock-coat was a thing that made
Solomon turn in his grave. He did a column of
superlatives, mingled with tears of emotion, in
Sydney Telegraph when he arrived. (The Tele-
graph found him weeping and waving his tile in
the Metropole.) He had been everywhere. He
had talked with Presidents and Ministers. He
had whooped. He had lived at the rate of
£5O a week. He had held forth. He had
been reported in 600 papers. He had lectured on
this country till great audiences were bogged in
tears, and said “My God, where is this Australia?
We must go there.” He had met the Pope and
been blessed and decorated. He had seen the
great monuments of antiquity, and had been over-
come with feelings of reverence. He had gone
the whole hog. He had taken steps to bring Aus-
tralia and America together. He had seen things
which “were the highest potentiality of intel-
lectual and physical expression.” He had wit-
nessed “majestic institutions,” and he whirled
his plug hat aloft as he said it. He had enjoyed
“superlative grandeur”—also he had had a
boshter time. It was the same old Dan.
THE INADEQUATE PAY.
Mr. Reid’s name finds favor with all parties in the
House. ... The salary is to be £3500 per annum. — Mis-
leading article in Melbourne Argus ( M/10/’O7 ) on the
High Commissioner ship.
The appointment should be for five years with a possi-
bility of a further renewal guaranteed.. . . Nothing less
than £5OOO per annum should be considered as adequate.
—Melbourne Argus 15/tol’o7.
Granny : “ Yes, Vs my little hoy, and a wery
good hoy ’e is; and I just thought as ’on; I’d
ask yer if yer couldn't give ’im the job and
live bob instead o’ three-an -six l ”
Death has taken two ancient Bathurst
residents, Mr. Michael Gilshanon, at the age of
88, and Mrs. Annie Shindlair, who was mother of
one of the proprietors of Bathurst Sentinel (now
defunct). The Sentinel was some years ago run
by Daniel Mayne, a Hawkesbury native, and was
a very warm proposition indeed. Mayne (who is
wealthy and enjoys the evening of life in his
native Windsor) probably answered more writs
than any other newspaper proprietor in Australia.
LE ROI EST MORT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. King O’Malley : “ London is not a Bad place if one
has plenty of money ; but it is a hell of a place without
money.”
The Speaker : “ Order.” — Hansard. (Not reported in
the press.)
There was a time when King O’Malley’s capers—
Each quip and joke—
Were promptly printed in the daily papers,
Whene’er he spoke.
His fancy phrases, quaint and high falutin’,
Were then fresh-milled ;
And solemn Argus men away went scootin’,
With copy filled.
And even when the graver press reproved him,
It winked an eye.
The Argus wrote as if it really loved him.
But, by-and-bye,
O’Malley’s slang grew stale, and worn, and threadbare ;
The holes peeped through.
His jokes got common as his own gay headwear ;
He’d nothing new.
Now, when with swears his speech, in desperation,
He brightly tints it,
Old Hansard is the only publication
That ever prints it.
VIC.
FRANK RADCLYFFE.
THE LAW’S BONNE BOUCHE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It has been decided that the execution of Nicholas
Baxter, sentenced weeks ago for the murder of Mary
Macnamara, at Enmore, shall be delayed until October
29, on which date the murderer will be duly hanged in
Darlinghurst Gaol.— News item.
’Tis the natural way of the tiger
To play with the creature it kills !
For the matter of that
’Tis the way of the cat
And a law that is old as the hills !
’Tis the way of the law with the convict,
Condemned to be slain for a crime—
’Tis the regular way
To arrange for delay,
And to torture the wretch for a time 1
As the epicure lingers at dinner,
And toys with the daintiest fare,
That his delicate taste
Be unhampered by haste
And his palate has time to prepare ;
So the law, as it plays with its victim,
Is wont to defer and delay
The joy and delight
Of exerting its might
On its helpless and shivering prey !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


"My Word!”
My Cigarette—CAPSTAN!


FOR
A COOL DRINK
Peter F. Heeling's
CHERRY BRANDY
IN
W At!
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
46
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King: and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN'S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October 22, 1907.
My Dear Arint,—
The Great Joke played by the Women’s Empire
League upon Mrs. Clara Butt was a huge
success. The contralto saw its points all the time.
The Leaguers beleaguered her hundreds deep, and
hemmed her in after the fashion of lioness-hunters
surrounding their prey. There were three forma-
tions to the joke. Mrs. Justice Darley and
satellites had taken up a position of splendid
isolation just inside the Hall (Town); the members
of the executive, numbering some 25 ladies, were
shoved to a coign apart; and the general invitees,
numbering about 1000, were chivvied into the
vestibule. This was before the star entered.
When she arrived she did not move in the orbit
appointed by the President—she went “on her
own.” The 1000 invitees saw their chance, and
swarmed around her. The best facet of the joke
was the League’s concert to the artiste. For the
same reason that the Women’s Patriotic Club
entertained Carrefio with pianoforte selections,
the Beleaguerers gave Mrs. Clara a concert.
It was helped out by Mrs. Grace Miller Ward, Miss
Dora Ranclaud, Mr. Lardelli, Miss Sussmilch,
and Mr. Arnold Gange—all good artists, and
perhaps the Empire Women wished to improve
the contralto’s musical education. But she
couldn’t have heard a note, for 800 invitees seized
the chance to rush the afternoon tea, and 800 tea-
spoon-on-china solos raged and drowned the vocal
efforts.
“Beloved, it is Morn” (when it was really
afternoon) was sung at the See-Bryen bridal pair
last week. He iR a son of the late Mr. John See.
She was Miss Constance Bryen, a Randwick
belle. White silk muslin over Liberty satin,
silver embroidery, and lace, and jewels, given by
Him, made the bride a decorative figure at the
foot of the altar stairs. ,
Another Somebodyish wedding of last week was
that of Mr. George Macleay Macarthur Onslow to
Miss Violet Marguerite Gordon, fourth daughter of
the late W. F. Gordon and Mrs. Gordon, of Manar,
near Goulburn. It was quite a Garden of Eden
affair. The Bishop of Goulburn and an assistant
clergyman performed the ceremony at half-past
two o’clock, in the garden at Manar. Hugh
Pollock was best man. At the reception, many
old families were represented. The great-grand-
father of Mr. Onslow was John Macarthur, of
Camden Park, and his grandfather was Alexander
Macleay, whose daughter married Arthur Pooley
Onslow, of the Indian Civil Service.
Charming Blanche Arral wrote me a letter. It
is quaint enough to quote :
Dear Miss, —I not forget you, mais depuis mon depart
de Sydney je voltige de ville en ville. Je crois je dream !
No time for nothing. Pchu, pchu—the railwai. Boom,
boom—Hotel diner ! 8 o’clock ah-ah-ah the concert ;
eleven o’clock Morph6e take me 1 And the same juste to
the 27, wen I will see you A Sydney. Votre affectionie
Blanche Arral.
Maoriland Government has taken over the town
of Rotorua and handed it into the keeping of
Tourist Bureau manager Donne. Mr. Donne has
ideas about town management, and will proceed
to put them into effect at once. The old Maori
and municipal council has been dissolved, and
Donne reigns over the quaking township in soli-
tary grandeur. The work of beautifying and im-
proving the place started with the first day of
Donne’s reign, and is reported to be proceeding at
top speed. The baths are to be extended, and
better arrangements made for the benefit of those
who desire to wallow in the hissing mud and
inhale the wemdand wonderful stinks ; the streets
are to be reconstructed, and altogether several
thousands of pounds will be expended on making
the place the most attractive and charming health
resort in the world. Nature has endowed it with
an overwhelming array of natural advantages, and
the Tourist Department is going to spend a lot of
money and brains in bevelling the edges, so to
speak.
Miss Ethel Kite, a much-liked girl in the High
Life of this city, will be married at the end of
next month to Mr. Wolstenholme, of Bathurst.
The ’groom is a mighty orchardist, and owns an
estate outside Bathurst witMn whose borders the
bot, llama, tse-tse, blow and other malign flies
dreaded of fruit cultunsts are unknown, and
whereon in consequence the trees flourish and
multiply like fiscal untruths or the grievances of
the Ma State.
American leaders of the Smart Idle Set have
thrown down the dog-idol, and are now worship-
ping the cat as a pet. To be a Smart Idler in
Canned Beefdom, you must carry a be-ribboned
Maltese pussy.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was married last month
in London to Miss Jean Leckie.
Miss Shadforth Hooper, who was one of Mrs.
Carreno’s pupils in Berlin, has come back to
Sydney, and will display her hand on the piano at
an early date. Mrs. Amy Sherwin will also give
a concert during the first week in December, in
Sydney Town Hall.
The poor old Emperor who lies deadly ill at
Vienna has had a dreary life of it. There aren’t
many who would take on his job at the price.
Notone near relative has he to whom something
calamitous has failed to happen. His wife, “ the
good Elizabeth,” was assassinated in Switzerland
by a lunatic-anarchist of the type which G. Reid
declared (at last Federal elections) would become
rife in Australia unless he (G. Reid) were returned
to power. Rudolph, his son, and the Crown
Prince of the Empire, married satisfactorily, and
stayed so for six years. Then he could
stand _ it no longer, and so wandered off
with his mistress, Marie Vetsera, into a wood,
where a little later they were both found dead.
After the murder of his Empress the old man fell
back on the society of her sister, the Duchess
d’ Alen§on. She was burned to death recently
under horrible circumstances at a charity bazaar
in Paris, with the fine flower of the local male
chivalry fighting frenziedly for the exits. The
Crown Prince left a little daughter Elizabeth, to
whom Francis Joseph became devoted. Elizabeth
waited till she was 17 and then married a
ypung and impoverished army officer named
Winaiscbgratz. To do this the lady sacrificed her
rank and ail her privileges as an Archduchess.
Her exact niche in the social edifice had hardly
been officially indicated when she found her
spouse loved another. She surprised the pair
at Prague, and shot the female offender dead.
The Emperor had a high regard for his nephew,
Archduke Johann. Without warning, this young
man married one Milly Stubel, a dancer, was duly
expelled from the army and the Court, sailed for
S. America, and has never been heard of since.
There remained another nephew, Archduke Franz
Ferdinand, who will be the next Emperor, unless
he dies suddenly (which is a Hapsburg habit these
days), or goes mad, or does something dreadful.
He married in June, 1900, Sophie Chobek, a lady-
in-waiting, and the reigning Emperor promptly
announced to the world that, as this marriage
was morganatic, neither the wife nor children of
Franz Ferdinand would inherit any of the rights
of the Imperial family. Death is about the only
calamity that hasn’t come to this unfortunate old
monarch so far.
If you were a military officer of high rank and
(by birth) a gentleman, wouldn’t it be etiquette
that you should remove your cap when you break
into a lady’s bedroom at midnight? The lady
being a Princess, too, and down on her knees,
saying her prayers. The question might be
addressed to any of our Federal officers, but
they might reply that the etiquette and
uniforms are so different in Savonia (sounds
like the name of a soap, or cheese), where
“The Midnight Wedding” is celebrated.
When Gaston Mervale, as the sinful Captain
Rudolph von Scarsbruck, feloniously enters
Astrea’s dreaming room in the dead waste and
middle of the night, and finds the heroine, Madge
Mclntosh, praying in a perfect waffle of a night-
gown (white silk and lace), he coolly flings him-
self, all heavy overcoat, double chin and cap, into
a chair, and starts to read. The situation is not
provided for in the military rules and regulations,
so he doesn’t even salute.
A frocky play is “The Midnight Wedding.”
Miss Mclntosh’s costumes are changed frequently
—pale yellow, tender blue, cream, mostly Liberty
satin, and in the last scene a string-colored
shantung, with a regiment of tiny scarlet bows
on parade down the front of the corsage, to be-
token her brightened prospects. Miss May
Congdon, as Satanella (she pronounces herself
Sdtine 11a), the wicked beauty, wears the colors
sacred to the reckless stage lady who fires lovers
and revolvers at sight. She is in red, black, and
yellow. In that wonderful Kipling story, “They,”
the blind woman knows the disposition of the
stranger who comes near her by the aura that
surrounds him or her. An aura is, of course,
visible only to the inward eye. It is a cloud or
halo or garnish of illuminated spikes. Vicious
persons have a red and black aura, “ like port
wine streaked with ink.” Better see to your aura,
and if you are unfortunate enough to be wearing a
red and black one, get it dyed, or change it for a
pale blue or a clear white. , You never know
when you may meet persons who see with the
spiritual eye, and who may tread on the tail of
your aura if it’s the wrong color.
The Mullarkey gentleman with the curly hair,
who was for long the Rev. Robert Spalding to J. C.
Williamson, was married last month to pretty Miss
Violet Silvester, till lately a member of J.C.W.’s
Royal Opera Co. The sly brace had been
engaged for two, long, sly years. The bridegroom
is now working north with the “ Human Hearts ”
co., in which he has acquired Mr. Williamson’s
interest. At the Palace Theatre, early in
November, he will present some wonderful
American magician, with a complete company.
Miss May Teresa Shenton, daughter of George
of that ilk, late President of the Legisla-
tive Council of Westralia, was married recently
in London to one Albert Edward Waddington,
whose address—“ Old Hall” in one county and
“ The Grange” in another —coupled with the fact
that he is an only son, suggests prosperity, and a
large stake in his native land. His father was one
of the early gamblers in the Kalgoorlie “Golden
Mile.”
A girl who was bride-elect to a naval man
stationed up Asia way, but who finally declined,
after the trousseau had been created, to go and
collect the bridegroom, is very much in Sydney’s
admiring eye these days. Miss Alice Briggs is
the damsel’s name. It doesn’t fit her—at least,
the surname doesn’t; “Alice” is sweet enough
for any charmer. This one looks as the girl in
Swinburne’s “An Interlude” may have looked to
the poet. She was ruffling it on a recent eveuing
in a brown chiffon gown and a flame-colored
gauzy scarf, and for the hour brown and flame
tones seemed to be the only hues worth artistic
consideration.
Talking of hues and tones. We are having in
these times of drought the most entrancing, and
often terrifying, sunsets. Local artists say that
Nature is turning out daily a fearsome lot of pot-
boilers. On Sunday night the western sky draped
itself in three huge flounces of grey, edged with
salmon pink. Then a mutiny broke out amongst
the colorists, and the sky went mad with orange,
lemon, purples and vermilion. The whole bag of
color tricks then blent into flame, and an unseen
fire brigade put out the fire by hosing it with
beetroot juice, tomatoes and red cats.
The dress designers have a new color —camel
brown. It is a variation of khaki. I wonder they
never honored the Gordon setter dog by quoting
the beautiful shade of his brown points. But, of
course, the greater part of him is black. At the
dog show at the Ex. Building, last week, ladies’
tailors might have got a few ideas from dog study.
The dear dog’s choice in suiting is simple,
and always in good taste : one or two colors,
with rarely a hint of a third shade—blacks,
browns, fawns and bluish greys. And his clothes
always fit him. Some fine Pomeranians barked
an attendance at last week’s show. But the collie
has first place in my heart. I shook the right
fore-paw of 45 collies (trying the while to think
myself Miss Rawson receiving at an At Home),
and the forty-sixth dog shook mine—which was
quite another matter.
Mr. R. T. Maurice, a well-known S.A. ex-
plorer, showed a Borzoi and some Welsh terriers.
The Taffy dogs are strange to us, but they looked
knowing enough to help their boss in his explora-
tions. Mrs. Maurice, who is in Sydney with her
husband, was Miss Ena Finney, of Brisbane, and
is said to run a bright descriptive pen and
to compose melodious songs. Her published
book of travel has the cuddlesome name of “ A
’Possum Abroad.” When Mrs. Maurice isn’t
rocking a cradleful of able-bodied boy baby,
she is helping her mate in the preparation for the
press of a lot of his search and research work
amongst natives and deserts, and other hostile
and unknown circumstances.
We do not look for stylish frocks amongst the
strenuous feminine battlers at tennis tournaments.
The usual player wears little except a brief skirt,
a skimpy blouse, bleak limp hair, and a freckled
flush. But at Strathfield one girl, Miss Dora
Gordon, contrives in costume to be It. She
actually looks as if she were at home upon the
tennis-court. And the secret of her cool dainti-
ness is simply White. She wears no hat, and all
her costume is white; shoes, stockings, and under-
ceteras —underceteras are frequently prominent
at tournaments —are all of snow. And the
effect, as she leaps at a volley, is cheerfully
cooling.
An Australian stroller about London writes me
that he occasionally runs against Mr. Tom Slat-
tery, looking as if he were going to a chronic
levee. He is managing the London business
interests of a bunch of American rich men.
Another ex-Sydneysider he meets is Mr. Tom
Curran, wearing Bond-street clothes, and ap-
parently hurried and prosperous.
The same correspondent tells me that Prime
Minister Campbell Bannerman, whose wife died
a year ago, is to marry the lady who was his late
wife’s companion.
A very earnest young party is Maud McCarthy,
violinist and cute general advertiser. Recently
she became a Theosophist, and still more recently
someone unwarily said she was a Catholic. Maud
was simply furious ; and here is what she wrote
in her wrath to the London Daily Chronicle
(3/9/’07):
I left the Catholic Church two years ago, not because
I believe less but because I believe more than it teaches.
And I have found full intellectual and emotional satisfac-
tion in the tenets of Theosophy.
What a gorgeous glimpse this affords of the inner
recesses of a certain sort of female religious mind.
Plainly religion connotes to Maud nothing
spiritual, but a thing that gives emotions.
Tannhauser gives intellectual and emotional satis-
faction to many ; so does “ A Yaughaning to
Women” ; so does opium ; so does a £lb. dog or a
hat—especially a hat. Maud, to state the case
tersely and baldly, is after an intellectual and
emotional dope; and she has gone to Theosophy.
How many women are there, one wonders, who are
in the same mental condition and haven’t
managed to stumble on the psychological truth as
Maud has ?
All the same, I wonder Maud took the trouble
to leave the Church. Theosophy is such a large,
vague, easy-fitting vesture. It could be worn
like an overcoat on top of any of the creeds, and
the parson or the priest be none the wiser. And—
how did Maud “leave’’the Church? Did she
send in her resignation to the Pope, or did she
just play the wag on Sundays ? Anyhow, the
little fiddler is now under the wing of The Purple
Lotus Mother, for so Mrs. Tingley (successor to
Mrs. Blavatsky), head of the Theosophists in
England, is designated. Purple Lotus Mother
Tingley ! Great Grimsby !
Speaking of leaving the church. The editor of
this paper has in his possession a faded document
which was found years and years ago among the
papers of a deceased Baptist parson in England.
It was the resignation of an active church member
named Mary Ann Something, and it read briefly :
• i aint comming no mor you dont preech the tru gospel
an wud of godd an ther is no deph in you I want the
bred of lif not usks.
A 16-year-old little Australienne, Miss Sara
Collins, will give an elocutionary and musical
recital in St. James’ Hall, next Thursday evening
(the 24th), in aid of the Jewish Montefiore Home
and the Infants’ Home at Ashfield. The youngster,
who is a pupil of Mr. Lawrence Campbell, will
recite, amongst other items, Shakspearian excerpts
and the Curse scene from “ Parsifal.” Misses
Rivers and Frost and Messrs. Sussmilchand Cyril
Monk will assist.
Concerning Queen Emma (of the New
Hebrides), now in Sydney, an acquaintance tells
me the lady is a Sainoan half-caste. She is
really the principal in the firm of E. E. For-
sayth, the largest exporters of copra in the
Islands. Her Majesty owns more than half the
civilised part of New Britain. Bes des that she
is a clever and witty woman, and a good organiser.
The “ Freddie” Shipmans (Mrs. Arral is one of
the bunch) have gone to stay at “Waratah,”
because Mrs. wants to play tennis. He is roping
in more local talent, and will delay his departure
till March.
A Commonwealther, returned from prowling
about an empire where the sun never sets (as there
are several empires lying under this affliction of
eternal brightness, it is best to specify that it was
the British Empire), ran across the once-noted
Melbournian, Alec Maclntyre. He is in Canada,
and on a paper. His wife—she was a pretty Vic.
heiress named Fairy Cogden—is living in London,
supervising the education of their son.
The biggest, fairest, squarest-shouldered man I
ever saw heaved himself off an English liner last
week. He is Colonel Hopton, of the visiting
English r.fle team. With two others of his team,
Colonel Cowan and Major Goldsmith, the Anak
gentleman, who displaces the atmosphere to a
height of six feet six inches, will go to Maoriland
presently.
Maoriland visitors are beginning to drift back to
the Dominion. Mr. Herbert Harris, of Christchurch
Bar, blew away on Saturday, by the Morayshire.
His friend, Mr. A. P. Buffer, of Wellington, had
rubbed noses in farewell with a host of new-made
friends of both sexes, and his Blue Slayer was at
the Australia door shedding petrol tears at having
to part company witfr a lot of friendly other-
colored slayers, when its owner changed his
thinking apparatus, and is staying on for another
week. The Heaton-Rhodes, who belong to the
Squatter Kings of Canterbury, have gone on to
Melbourne for the Great Clothes-Horse Week.
Commonwealth Somebodies have to take shilling
seats, as to style in travelling, when some of the
Dominion Somebodies are moving around. The
Heaton-Rhodes pair and their brace of children
were.at Medlow, with their own maids and valets,
a chauffeur, a tutor, and a standard-bearer. (I’m
not sure about the last.)
A friend of Ada Crossley’s tells me she didn’t
rent the house she occupies in St. John’s Wood.
She bought it for £9OOO. Well, a note in the
Voice (some Voices) is worth fifty in the bank.
Two N.S.W. heiresses. Miss Winnie Smith
(these Smiths used to inhabit “ Goderich,” that
big house in Bayswater-road) and Miss Robertson,
of Toganmain, a squatteress, who have been
travelling together for some time, are back in
Sydney giving the Society wheel an extra twirl.
With Mrs. Thring, Mrs. Scot Skirving, and Miss
Faithfull, they had a Glaciarium revel yesterday
afternoon. It is just It these days to hire the
Glassy Harem from five to seven (the hours on
which it used to be closed), and give your friends
a feverish time on the ice, arid a lavish variety of
refreshments. Then you go home to dine with
what appetite is left you.
Australia grows claimants as other lands do
potatoes. It has produced, among others, the
Tichborne Claimant, the applicant for the Port-
land peerage, the man who reckons he is the Earl
of Leicester, and Morris, who wants the Page
Millions ; and now it has raised another man who
also wants the Page Millions, or part of them.
His name is Arthur Frederick Page, and he hangs
out at Carlton, Melbourne. The wheat crop is
looking bad this year, but the crop of lost heirs to
wealth and titles is something immense.
On November 2nd, an entertainment in aid of
“‘Eva’ of the Nation” Fund will be given in
the Palace Theatre. Mr. Andrew Mack and Miss
Marie Narelle will assist. Mrs. Kevin O’Doh-
erty, once a well-known European writer and
versifier, is the widow of a noted Irish patriot.
In her old age she has been left in straitened cir-
cumstances, and if only for the sake of the ringing
verses which went to her country’s heart half-a-
century ago, her case calls for a whole lot of
consideration.
“Mario” writes from Brisbane :
News has been received here, per cable, of the birth of
a son to Mr. and Mrs. [the name might be Olap, Class,
Glap, or Glass], of Long Island, New York. Mrs. [see
memo, above] will be well remembered in Sydney as
Vivien Noel, of the Tittell Brune co.
Deputy Opposition leader Macartney and his sprightly
little wife are being fSted this week, prior to their depart-
ure for Europe, on Wedmsday, on a brief holiday visit.
Hubby was subject matter for a very swell dinner at the
Brisbane Club on Saturday evening. And, talking of
dinners, one of the most musical and artistic held in this
sorrowing city for a decade was the send-off to Dr.
W. S. President-of-the-Liedertafel Byrne, last week.
Very dainty was the menu, whereon a Titian lady,
in moon-blue, relief, upheld a basket of fruit and
flowers. The list of good things matched the cover.
Dr. Byrne proceeds to England, per Geelong, as surgeon,
and “ Auntie,” as she is affectionately called, goes with
him. Prior to her departure, “Auntie” has been busily
engaged in collecting comforts and amusements for the
lepers at the new lazarette on Stradbroke Island, and
herself handed over to these unfortunates £4O worth of
clothing, a gramophone, games, and literature. Some of
the letters of farewell she received were most pathetic.
The scandal in connection with the Ghurch-of-England-
run Refuge and Infants’ Home has assumed alarming
proportions. Mrs. L’Estrange, alone of the committee,
is said to have worked hard to mend matters, and ulti-
mately caused the affair to be aired in the House. A
woman friend of mine, who visited the premises, says it
needs all the airing it can get. It is stated that out of
48 infants admitted since January, 26 have died, and that
the milk has been certified by Dr. Ham as pure “ when
it went into the Home.” Heaven alone knows what it was
like when it went into the babies.
Lottie Richter, the Queensland soprano, has scored a
triumph at the Bendigo Musical Festival. Lottie has a
fine voice, a Lutheran progenitor, an absence of taste in
frocking, and the voice of a seraph.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Anthony Hordern and Sons’ portfolio of spring
and summer fashions will give you all the intel-
lectual and emotional satisfaction that is good for
you on the frocking, hatting, and all-around deco-
rative sides of your nature. The firm has an
eye-holding novelty in its windows these days.
A score or so of long, bright, flat metal arms,
worked by motor-power, are used to display dress
patterns, wallpapers, or carpets. An arm hold-
ing a specimen slowly detaches itself from its
fellows, and swings to the opposite point. Then
the other arms go and do likewise in slow suc-
cession. If the novelty were a horse race it
couldn’t fascinate more gazers than it does.
Beauty is Yours. —To some few women whom
Nature has made beautiful the great question is how
best to preserve their beauty. To others it is how
beauty may be theirs. The same solution stands in
either case —VALAZE. Valaze gives to its every user
the soft, clear complexion—it extracts the impurities
that stifle and clog the skin pores, and renews their
natural activity. Wrinkles, Crow’s-feet, Sallowness,
Freckles, and Tan cannot be where Valaze is regularly
used. Valaze is guaranteed not to encourage the growth
of hair. 3/6 and 6/6 a jar ; postage, 6d. extra. Valazb
Blackhead and Open Pore Cure closes all open pores,
removes blackheads, excellent for greasy skins, never
fails in even the most obstinate case. 2/6, posted 3/-.
Valaze Herbal Soap, 2/- cake, posted 2/2. All Valaze
Toilet Specialties sold by leading Chemists, or direct
from Mile. Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney, and at 9 Brandon-street >
Wellington, N.Z.*
The latest Great Man has found his
vocation. Keir Hardie seems to have settled
everything to his own entire satisfaction in India
in an interview with the Viceroy. According to
a Reuter’s message the two potentates
discussed the subject of education, and the emigration of
Indians to the colonies.
“The colonies” are naturally much obliged to
Keir Hardie for interesting himself in a matter
that so much concerns them.
While in Europe, recently, Mr. Harris, of the
Beehive Stores, Elizabeth-st., Melbourne, made extensive
purchases of fancy goods and novelties, which are now on
view at the above premises, and should afford a strong
attraction for visitors to Melbourne during the Racing-
Carnival.*
Maoriland Parliament has abolished the
“eternal lease” —that mad experiment of old
John M'Kenzie’s, whereby State lands were let for
999 years without re-valuation. The idea has only
been in force 15 or 16 years, and already many of
the areas, leased at what seemed a fair renta| in
the bad times, are worth, even low valuation,
twice as much rent as the tenant is paying. How
much more they will be worth before the leases
expire about the year 2895 nobody knows, and
nobody likes to ask. It is a painful subject.


DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
we STOCK and Manufacture to order
CONVEYOR and VANNER BELTS,
In Any Length or Size, same as
now used with success by many
of the Leading Australian Mines,
AIR DRILL HOSE, . . . SUCTION
and DELIVERY HOSE, . . VALVES,
PACKINGS and Every Description
of Rubber Goods required for
Mining. Quality of Material
and Workmanship—THE BEST.
Tenders and Samples Submitted
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane,
and Christchurch, N.Z.
DUNLOP
HOSE
f
D?ZD NQT
KINK
2R SUKST.
accept only "Dunlop* Brands
obtainable all leading, stores.
DUNLOP
HOSE
KLEINERT’S
HINTS TO SMART DRESSERS.
Tl>g Etoi) Sbigld,
Cellular Fabric for Summer Wear.
DRESS MAY BE CHANGED WITHOUT
REMOVING THE SHIELD.
YOUR DRAPER HAS IT.
.Aiasorl
i I
•- ■
BJL
<£■»
sfd
'SOMETHING • &VITE -NE.W-
“jmLUMKL
'■
WORLD
ZiXK
m
1 Ar. y • . *♦
SWFfT
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne:, October 21, 1907.
My Dear Yarrik,—
By the time this sees print the Women’s Work
Exhibition will have blossomed out, but in themean-
time it is the darkest hour before the dawn ; the
chaos before creation. The chaos includes a ham-
mering that suggests a boiler factory gone mad,
spikey things in horrible dark corners, pitfalls of
all sorts, piles of unpacked exhibits, and wildly
dishevelled workers. The astounding thing is to see
the crowds of people working like slaves—people
who never worked before except to occasionally
pat a cushion or stir their tea. It's a perfect
general of a Governor Lady who is working and
commanding, and a bevy of gentle Aides rush
about as carriers. Or you see a pompous poli-
tician flying past with a hand-cart, and the
keenest of racing men have been missing Caulfield
and humping burdens instead, like Issachar, the
strong ass, who carried two of them.
Dame Forrest has a most valuable exhibit in the
Women’s Exhibition (not for competition, as she
is a judge). It consists of a dozen or so water
colors of Westralian wild flowers, and is
merely a snatch or glimpse or sample of a
fine collection she has in the West. The
Forrest lady is a clever botanist, and has
studied since the time when she vkas less than
a yard high and her frock was too short to be of
any serious importance. The collection would be
worth bringing over in its entirety. Old Baron
von Mueller used to say it beat the clever Mrs.
Rowan’s hollow f-or accuracy. The Forrest Dame
has made many excursions far into the interior,
tracking the rare orchid and the quaint bramble
bush that looks like a ghost in the moonlight.
The Exhibition Tableaux (a dozen or so) are
resolving their whirlwind selves into something
like peaceful pictures. Dames Forrest and
Madden have had the worry of their lives qVer
them. The very top cry of the lot is labelled
“The Sultan’s Daughter,” and pretty Eileen
Whiting has slipped into the name part. She
takes the place of some absconder, and sister
Claire makes a dignified attendant. The Forrest
Dame almost faints when she remembers her
battles with this particular picture. Half-a-dozen
different maidens slipped out (each after
weeks of rehearsal of the Sultan’s Daughter’s
doings) because papa, or mamma, or some-
one wouldn’t let them wear trousers.” (The
Sultan’s daughter reclines on a couch, and
wears the modest Turkish dress.) Trouble is—
there are no trousered beings to work with. Since
it’s a Woman’s Ex., men are taboo in the tableaux,
and the men portions of the pictures are imper-
sonated by dressed-up feminines. Now, where’s
the fun of weeks of rehearsal with nary a Johnnie
to fan the fainting female, and no flirting in the
intervals ?
Mr. Lumsden, of the angel face and romantic
grey hair, has thrown over Czernyism, and is
director-in-chief of entertainments (there are 150
of them), and what a time he has among the dear
girls ! They float and flutter round him with
questions and purrings. But he’s so gentle. One
sometimes hears a mild “Now —Girls? Girls?”
That’s all. The entertaining maidens reckon he’s
a love of a director.
On Thursday afternoon the very-wearied North-
cote Lady motored out to Cheltenham to open a
Wing (if she had been given time to nibble a wing
in peace and lunchly pleasantness it would have
been kinder, for the Governor Lady had spent all
the dusty morning in the grubby Exhibition).
The Wing that was to be torn open was the third
extension made to the Church of England Rescue
Home —a meritorious institution that is helped
considerably by Millers and Turners, and many
such folk. The Bishop, and a Canon or so, and a
flock of long-coated Reverends helped the eere-
monv along. The Northcote Lady had one Aide
in attendance (the one with an eye-glass). The
poor Help was collapsible with worry and un-
wonted toil (this Exhibition will be the death of
some people). He stood throughout the lengthy
speeching, and drooped with a frilly sun-
shade clasped tightly to his manly bosom,
and the eye-glass clutched to the bosom of his
countenance by the weary wrinkles of a grin.
The decorative Ernest Raleig' l dame and her
long-drawn-out spouse are making preparations
for a summer season in mufti. They go to
Macedon after the races. The lady will be
missed. Since the art of conversation was buried
beneath a mound of rustling fabrics, we’ve learned
to treasure the women who look nice as a general
rule. Therefore the absence of the monumental
Mrs. Raleigh is specially regrettable.
Sammy Gillott and his sprucer half return to
the Land of Jud this week. So the grey, quiet
house in Fitzroy is being re-furbished. Sam’l
doesn’t crave for further political notoriety—not
even for aldermanic honors. His dame, in con-
sequence, will keep her social end up in her own
best parlor, instead of in that strangely-peopled
desert, the Town Hall.
And yet they come! It would seem that the
destination of most pretty wives in Melbourne is
the disentanglement department of the Supreme
Court. The latest lady who tends that way is a
perfect piece of human Sevres china, and her
irregular escort is a politician. The husband is
just an infuriated animal for the nonce, and he
bites. Revelations, accusations, debacles, and
general excitement promise to eventuate within
the month. Meantime the pretty lady is being
figuratively, and quite prematurely, crucified by
her best friends.
On Sunday, Mrs. Fred McCubbin shed the
grey chaplet of grass-widowdom, and gave an
artists’ picnic in honor of painter Hornel.
William Moore, Bernard Hall, the plump
Lindsay lass, and most other folk who work or
loaf in studios, turned up to pay homage to their
hostess and her guest. The great. ’an discoursed
delightfully. Mr. Hornel (who thin week is in
Sydney) proudly declares himself a native-born
Australian. He first said “ Goo-goo ”at Bacchus
Marsh, but he was ta’en tae Caledonia when he
was much too young to resent such an injustice.
Dorothy McCrae-Perry and her clerical mate
have flown home after several months foreign
travel. The poetess settles down now to a course
of parochial duties, punctuated with new poems
and expeditions into Sassiety. The matronette
looks quite the prettiest thing in the way of a
well-tailored angel.
Yet another homing traveller is Miss Byron
Moore. After spending four years in looking at
foreign aspects of the universe, in conjunction
with her chum, Jean Robertson, she returns to
home and mamma in time for race week. All
good Australians get back in time for the
Cup, somehow. I heard once of a man
who went to England to marry Bull’s fairest
daughter, and fled back, unwedded and alone,
because the lady couldn’t get her frocks ready
to be breathed upon by Eden in time to
catch a boat that would bring them back for the
great national drinking utensil.
Through Melbourne this week has bustled Prof.
Stephen Leacock, a notable savant from Montreal.
He’s professor of Imperialism, or Chemical Latin,
or something of the idealistic sort at the McGill
University. Under the provisions of the late
Cecil Rhodes’ will, he is travelling through the
countries that employ British Governors, gather-
ing fresh and more or less reliable information
concerning national aspirations, intentions, and
inclinations. Like a sensible man, he proceeds
on his quest without the accompaniment of a
brass band. Amongst other achievements, he
numbers a relationship to Harrington Palmer, of
your town.
The Melbourne show of the N.S.W. artists will
reveal itself at the price of a shilling a time on
and after October 23. Prime Minister Deakin
opens this first independent exhibition of Corn-
stalk art in Victoria. Director T. C. Lothian
has assured good attendances by judicious an-
nouncements ; and the Guildhall promises to be
the rendezvous of every individual who can
mitigate the horrors of a full purse by buying
desirable art objects.
People who are floating into town for race
frivolities are finding (for the first time within
the memory of extant estate agents) a fair number
of furnished flats available. An enterprising
youth has acquired several suites of more or less
badly-equipped rooms, filled them with cracked
bric-a-brac, odd chairs, grandfather clocks which
wouldn’t tick if you wound them, and, incidentally,
beds and some other human essentials. He’s
letting them profitably and easily. He explains
his reason for spending money upon the articles of
“ bigotry and virtue.” Such atrocities make any
den look homely, and guileless grass-widows, and
lone spinsters who dread the cold, ferocious stare
of well-manned pubs, rush along in search of a
haven, see the chipped plaques, ignore the absence
of bed-linen, and cheerfully pay an extra guinea a
week for the perishable privileges provided.
Caulfield Cup was the most glorious race one
could wish to see. It was worth anything in the
world to watch Poseidon, that game little heavily-
weighted horse, pulling out of the field at a
furious gallop, just in the last few yards. It
wrenched one’s whole heart along with it. The
entire afternoon’s racing was brilliant; there was
almost too much intensity of sport packed into
one meeting. Such a gaily clad day it was, too,
and the weather was perfect. The G.-G. came
out without his Lady. I expect she was over-
come by “Exhibition.” The Madden crowd was
in full force, even to plump Baby Beatrice. Mrs.
Vallange had the courage to frock “same as last
time,’’and Miss Ruby doffed her orange hat for one
of cherries —the horrible, green, indigestible-look-
ing cherries so dear to Fashion’s present whim.
Mrs. Melba partied with them ; she was wrapped
in a lurid whirl of excitement, and her other
clothes were blue, and a hat with some red in it.
It was a fascinating, exciting day, and the excite-
ment seemed to reach its apex in the person
of Melba. Mrs. Madden tabooed her soft
color sense, and flamed out in poster-stripes
of blue and white. Mrs. Tasmanian Talbot,
of Malahyde, blended all the primary colors
into one gorgeous whole, and talked all day of her
other race frocks. A girl wandered round who
looked like an ad. for Lewis and Whitty’s Blue.
Mrs. Ernest Brookes wore very scarlet lips, and
an adorable dress of flower petals on soft silk ; she
brought along with her Miss Beatrice Irwin, who
made trailing grey ninon and droopy white
plumes a background for her exquisite fairness.
Elbert Orton posed magnificently beside Mrs.
Miller in cream and tan color, with a flowery
hat nodding a “little red rose” to Beau-
caire Julius, who could not get near the
divinity for the hedge of admirers. Julius
wore very high heels, and wandered arm-
in-arm with Norman Menzies. Mrs. Norman
might have been dipped in wine-color limelight—
umbrella hat, dress, shoes, parasol, all the one
shade. Miss Ball—oh my ! —Miss Ball was
dressed expensively, in a hideously-elaborate
dress dabbed all over with washing-day blue.
The Whitings were all out. Pretty little Eileen
draped herself in a rich silk crepe—the color of
the ■ shadows in a mountain. “Madame” of
Buckley’s—responsible for many “ creations ” on
the lawn—trailed pale blue with mystic designs in
fish-scales, or some such sliimmery thing. She
scarcely looked a mermaid, nevertheless.
Melba had the green motor —the one with the
green linen cushions and the big white numbers
like a race-board behind. There were many fine
motors in the enclosure, but Greenclad looked a
very thoroughbred among some brumbies.
Miss Fan Dango is an over-petted maiden.
Which may explain the fact that clever little
understudy Ivy Scott has been playing the Fan
Dango “Dairy Maid ” part for the best part of a
week (doing it well, too).
Cards flutter out for the opening of the new
Dental College. It has raised its £lO,OOO worth
of bricks and mortar and fixings next door to the
Princess’s, and the yell of the infuriated stage
manager and the cry of the hysterical prima
donna will mingle with the wail of the patient
who is being dragged around by the tooth which
won’t let go.
Spars from the storm-tossed grand opera co. are
floating into Melbourne—pieces broken off and
wandering unattached. Murmurs of troubles
past mingle with whispers of troubles to come.
Huge Greder, basso and stage manager (now
unattached), comes grimly and blackly. He is
busy concocting the deadly poison of a “Case”
agin Musgrove (and Costs gibber in the near
distance). Greder, in forcible German, declares
he will make the warm—he will muke the
universe “sit up.” The ragged and plucky
remnant of the much-skirmished army opens at
the Princess’s on Derby night in any old opera
it happens to lay its hand on at the last moment.
Colonel Hoad and his lady were “at home” at
the gloomy St. Hilda Road Barracks on Tuesday
afternoon, and everybody that’s Somebody went
along and drank tea. One of the cleverest She
caterers had the whole show in her hands—tea,
floral decorations and all—and the result was
particularly dainty.
The Caledonian Society broke into wild mirth
on 1 hursday night with dance and song and
chorusing. Elva Rogers, with poppies in her
j l ||’> P u l* h er big soft contralto into parritch
ballads, and had every Scotch eye blinking tears.
Miss Bessie Eraser was booked for the soprano soli
u COy ' soprano Scotch ballads. There was
a house of much social and frocky weight, and the
Town Hall was filled horribly with the skirl of the
solo bagpipist and the man who solemnly patted
his feet and accompanied the dancers. It was a
braw nicht, ye ken.
Cards are out for a gown party (otherwise
garden party) on November 1. It is a toss-up
always whether the weather will favor Cup
dresses ; and this is an off chance of a spread be-
fore ruin overtakes the garment. There’s such a
glorious opportunity to criticise the other cat’s
dress, too, on a lawn with no distracting race to
divide the attention.
The committee folk of the Jumble Bumble, held
last week at Princes Court, are sitting down and
cogitating in coolness on the monetary results.
“Not as much as we expected,” they say. Bub
does a Charity ever get that ? It seemed a tre-
mendous success. Every dinky side-show was
going for all it was worth, and half the swagger
feminine populace abandoned the races on Guineas
Day to sell flowers and trumpery in “ the cause.”
In “ The Brigadier,” the daintily fair Beatrice
Irwin frocks sumptuously. Arriving in her boudoir
from her carriage, the lady wears an empire gown
of satin, paler than primroses, with a cunning,
Frenchy little overcoat of dull blue and fur, cut
away from her arms. She carries a granny muff
of the same colors to cover the deficiency of
clothes out-of-doors. Also she wears some lovely
amber—the lady revels in the quaintest jewels—
rare and costly, and curiously set.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Our own dear little Botanical Garden had a jubilee last
week, and the governors, pastors and masters of the bit
of grass determined to celebrate the unforeseen event by
an evening’s amusement. They flung open the gates,
coaxed in 29 bands and a barrel organ and a monkey and
a tin whistle, set the goddesses of the kiosk brewing
coffee by the fathom, and had a special streak of moon-
light ordered for the occasion. Then the public was
admitted to the sylvan scene, allowed to listen ,to the 29
bands and one barrel-organ, and to shake the monkey by
the tail, and do other strenuous things. And, as far as
I can ascertain, nobody stole the Victoria Regia or
uprooted any of th efernum, gigantiums, and took them
home in his pocket. That proves what a poor, but
honest, public we are. The kiosk above mentioned, by
the way, is a recent addition to the Gardens, and is now
the popular place in which to hold the afternoon bun-
struggle. The catering is done on the spot, the Garden
is thrown in free of charge, and one is saved all the wear
and tear of preparation. Also it is the Thing to bun-
struggle in the Gardens, and let us be the Thing or throw
ourselves overboard with tombstones tied to our head
and feet.
The Government, after weighing the pros and cons for
a full year, has made the fatal plunge at last, and pur-
chased Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s fine collection of paintings of
Australian wild flowers. The price demanded was
£lOOO, but the Government groaned and snarled and
said it was poverty-stricken, and had to buy itself a new
hat to go to the levee, and could only afford £5OO anyhow.
So some affluent citizens came to the rescue and provided
the remaining shekels, rather than allow the collection to
go out of the State.
The Hall-Hendersons, who president the Adelaide Oval
bowling club, had the chiffony populace to tea and bowls
on the green, the other Saturday, by way of opening the
season. The same day the Kensington tennis club burst
into the splendor of a set of new asphalt courts, and a
crowd of Panama-hatted experts testified to their ex-
cellence, while the landed gentry looked on from the con-
fines of its best belltopper. The same day the Port Ade-
laide yacht club sailed up the mighty river, and propped
open the yachting season amid shouts of applause. And
the Port Adelaide bowling club, resolved not to be out of
things, burst open its gates and bowled like fury. I think
we have now opened everything we have except our tram-
car windows, which, as everyone knows, are meant to be
kept shut in case any air should get to the passengers.
Our Excellencies have gone over to Melbourne to assist
in the great and exciting business of opening the
Women’s Work Exhibition. If this State doesn’t grab all
the best prizes, you may take it for granted that the
judging leaves much to be desired, and we shall imme-
diately send our leaning army over to investigate. The
Exes, rushed home from the country in time to give one
or two dinner parties to the Peerage before setting out
on their travels.
Miss Guli Hack, of the Conservatorium, and all the
pretty damsels of her part-singing class, had their annual
distribution of melodies in the Elder Hall last week. The
edifice was packed, and much of the populace had to
fight turbulently for breathing room. The Gilded Few
spread its ap arel over the front seats with much vim,
and applauded indiscriminately. (To be a Gilded Few
you pay a whole annual guinea, and squander a fearful
2s. 6d. each time. To be a populace, you only have to
pay a lonely little shilling.) The popular conductress,
whose frocks would lure ghosts from the silent tomb,
bloomed in scarlet be-sequined satin, with a background
of white-garbed singing nymphs. She had many mingled
gardens and ribbon departments thrust at her, and
at the end of the performance her nymphs pelted
her with roses. The programme was a heavenly
mixture of pastorals, fairy-ballads, and invocations.
Among the audience were the Chancellor Way dame with
a party, Dr. and Mrs. Barlow, Mrs. Alick Buchanan, Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Kyffin Thomas, Mrs. Dudley Hayward,
and the musical Ennises, to say nothing of all the semi-
tone.
A new pianoforte star is threatening to arise on this
horizon. She is Miss Stella Hall, and she gives an invita-
tion concert on October 30.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
sfd
GO TO HELX.-
IGOLAMD for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr*d. Ha get), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss
s*;
mm
Elastic
Truss-
Si ng-VB, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.). SYDNEY.'
Amo at Mulbource.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last week, as the result of the increased
Protection against cheap foreign labor given by
the new tariff, the Fyansford Paper Mills, at
Geelong (Vic.), cut down the hours worked by the
employees from 12 to eight per day. while'con-
tinuing to pay the same wages ; also the manage-
ment put on half as many hands again as were
employed before, working three shifts in place of
two. And the thing that did this is the one thing
that the Labor party deliber-
ately has no opinions about.
DYNE'S LATEST CONVERT. GEORGE
TESTIFIES TO THE BER-LESSED TRUTH.
Mr. G. H. Reid: “The new Protection is well worthy
of a trial both in its endeavor to restrain excessive prices
and to prevent sweating ways.”
A correspondent of London Morning Post
writes concerning present affairs in India
We don’t know what is going to happen, but we all
feel that something will happen before long. ... Of
course not a quarter of what the Indian Government tells
the British Government leaks out, and people at Home
have no idea that their friends out here are just now
living on the edge of a volcano which is showing signs of
activity.. In places like this the European would have no
chance in case of a general rising ; he is one to thou-
sands, who are all savages at heart. In all sorts of ways
the natives are showing their feelings.
It used to be said that if N.S. W. Parliament
made a sixpenny charge for admission to its
debates there would be a rush for seats on big
occasions. The seats are gratis, hence, said some
politicians, they are despised. But whatever the
value of past Parliaments as intellectual entertain-
ments, the present one is emphatically worthless.
The motion of censure—the first on a new Ad minis-
tration-should have been the biggest thing of the
session. But from no section of the House did
there flash an idea of more than tenth-rate bril-
liance. David Storey fairly represented the lot.
Our so-called factories.”- -Recent Daily
Telegraph scoff at the industries of N. S. Wales.
How the importers’ hirelings do loathe Australian
manufactures !
What a spineless incompetent insect the
average municipal councillor is ! Recently the
Hamilton (Vie.) Borough Council was requested
to attend to some foul-smelling, disease-spreading
drains that it had on the premises. It was
decided that nothing could be done at present,
but probably a loan would be raised at an early
date, and the drains would then receive attention.
Councillors get nothing a year, and they are just
about worth it. Some of them are worth less.
A note from the IS orth :
Mt. Morgan, where the great gold-mine is, has held its
monster meeting to protest against the tariff. The
monster consisted of 10 people, and another one who
wandered in by mistake, and asked whether that wasn’t
where they were drawing the raffle. This eleventh
man finally said he was in favor of anything the other
gentlemen might agree on ; whereupon the other gentle-
men tried to agree on something, but couldn’t: so Mt
Morgan’s monster broke up in considerable disorder and
resolved himself into his constituent elements.
In spite of the big harvests and boom
prices for wheat and such tilings, last year N. S.
Wales manufactures were worth more than the
agricultural and dairying businesses put together.
The Bureau of Statistics has just completed the
figures :
Agriculture and dairying .. .. £10,943 000
Manufactures (i.e., value added to ’ ’
raw products) 11,843,000
Still, the Sydney Foreign-trader talks about the
tariff as “ a Victorian conspiracy,” and gives the
impression that N. S. Wales is a poor place which
can only make a broom-handle with difficulty.
Honestly, what does Fat think of the
poor but hungry relations it has pitchforked
into Queensland Legislative Council? J. T.
Annear, stonewalling the Wages Board Bill the
other night, implored Minister Barlow to explain
what a clause meant which said that a majority
of * Board should rule. He “didn’t understand
it. And the biting part of the business was
that the House considered Annear for a minute
and then didn’t look surprised. It regarded him
as a man who probably wouldn’t know.
The Argus is still floundering. One day
the silly old gossip declares that all the new tariff
will do will be to crush the people with a load of
taxation, as the goods will be imported all the
same, but will have to pay duty. Next day she
declares that the local mills will be so crowded
with work that customers must go short. This is
followed by an announcement that thousands of
pounds’ worth of orders in England for goods for
Australia have been cancelled, and isn’t Lyne
ashamed of himself ? The old lady really ought to
make up her mind which yarn she is going to tell.
Every day now the drought prospects
become gloomier. While the scanty measure of
good years were with us, Australia did hardly
anything to reduce its debt burden, so that it
would have less interest to pay when the lean
season returned—in fact, it increased its liabilities
in the aggregate. It did a little in the way of
irrigation, but not much. It didn't get its Federal
graduated land-tax passed, so the coast lands,
where there is some skeleton of a living to be
made even in the worst kind of season, are still in
the hands of the big landlord and the rack-renter,
while the independent agriculturist goes out to
battle with the dust and the whirlwind in places
like the Mallee. And the Labor party takes
this opportunity to lay down the rule that,
if there is in any trade one bad employer,
or one employer with whom a trades union
is dissatisfied on any reasonable or unreason-
able ground, the whole trade, which may include
many good employers and support thousands
of people, shall be discouraged and injured as far
as possible by the reduction or abolition of protec-
tive duties. It isn’t a promising hour at which to
try to deprive the Denton Hat Mills employees of
their work in Melbourne because the unions don’t
like Anderson in Sydney, and to try to throw the
employees of May Bros., of Gawler (S.A.), on a
cold world because of a grievance against McKay,
of Victoria; but apparently the attempt is to
be made.
By way of a gentle persuader, the Com-
missioner of Crown Lands pointed out to the S.
Australian Leg. Council that if the State in-
sists on retaining the Northern Territory, it
will be necessary to more than double the
existing land tax in order to meet the an-
nual deficit of £140,000 in the Territory
accounts. The House shook at the bare
thought of it.
Brisbane Courier and Mail, finding that
their combined barracking for the local Stinking
Fishermen failed monumentally at the polls, have
now set to work in the meaner sphere of under-
ground engineering. The result is a stupid
attempt to form a new party from the Kidstonian
“moderates.” It is alleged that at least seven
Government supporters are developing symp-
toms of ratting, and long to secede gradually
into the arms of the Opposition. But as all the
alleged seven represent Darling Downs seats, and
as the Kidstonian press rules the Downs and can
make and unmake rats, it is fairly safe to say that
the “new party’’will not materialise. Queens-
land already has one party too many, and its name
is Philp.
“R. 8.” writes:—
Certain Tas. legislators are alleged to be coquetting
with the deadbeat syndicate which seeks to revive the
old Great Western Railway concession, with its land
grants qnd water-power rights ; and they might, before
compromising themselves, look into the steal agreed to
by the Launceston Council. The northern municipality
owns its electrie generation (light and power), and yet it
has given a concession for street trams to a syndicate
which is mostly the bosses of Melbourne Train Co. The
syndicate has been given 27 years’ street rights. The
valuation of the future tram co.’s property will be
nominal—not more than £25 per annum (Melbourne
Tram Co. pays £5OOO in rates, and doesn’t pay
enough even on that figure). The co. is to have the
right to charge threepenny fares. The municipality is to
have the right to buy the lines at the end of 27 years, at
the figure they cost to-day. The municipality has made
no stipulation of a minimum wage, or any labor condi-
tions, so the co. can sweat its men on the one hand, and
charge threepenny fares on the other. The onlv stipula-
tion the municipality makes is that the Tram Co. shall
buy the municipality’s power— at a halfpenny a unit !
Melbourne rates are 2£d. for power and sd. for light per
unit. The prospectus of the new syndicate is said to
disclose, no promoters’ plunder. So Launceston munici-
pality may not be hard-faced. But, if it isn’t hard-faced,
it’s soft-headed.
THE DEFUNCT DOG.
The principle of Protection, continued Mr. Reid, was one which had to be adopted by nearly all great
nations of the world, and there must be something in it, he added, thoughtfully, which appealed to the feelings
of a very large majority of the human race. This was a young country, and young countries had to pursue a
different policy from older countries such as Great Britain.— ARGUS.
AUSTRALIA : “Say, George, if it’s foolish to whack a dead donkey, what about a dead dog?"
The savage attacks on Queensland Lands
Minister Bell, now running serially in the Bris-
bane Courier, are the outcome of an old feud
between Bell and Courier director Stevens, and
really have nothing to do with the policy of the
Lands administration. When Bell challenged
Philptoask for a Royal Commission to inquire
into his administration, Philp was silent as the
grave. Bell has done more for closer settlement
than any other man in Bananaland. That is why
the squattocratic prints love him so much.
The S. M. Herald (11/10/’O7) found that,
in the proposed arrangement for the division of
the Murray waters, poor old Ma State had been
wronged again :
We want no over-reaching in this business, but a fair
national policy of give-and-take in that broad Australian
spirit which should be ready to sink petty aims when the
general good is at. stake. In another part of to-day’s
issue we print a circular addressed to members of the
New South Wales Parliament on this Murray waters
question, which seems to point to our getting rather the
worse of the bargain, as usual, in our chattering with
Victoria. We stand committed to an undertaking to
divert no more of these waters than the proportion of
1.70 to 1.00 by Victoria. . . . Parliament can be depended
on to maintain the rights of the State.
Now, according to the latest authority (Gregory’s
Geography of Australia, Yol. 1., page 254), in an
average year Victoria supplies 37 per cent, and
N.S.W. 63 per cent, of the two States’ eontribu-
tion to the Murray waters. And the proposed
division for irrigation purposes (17 gallons to
N.S.W. for every 10 to Victoria) balances the
respective contributions to just about the last
possible hair. But the Herald didn’t figure the
thing out; it just decided that poor old
battered Ma State must necessarily be swindled.
It has decided that 500 times before, and been
wrong every time.
Bent’s Charity Tax Bill is off the stocks.
It proposes to levy 5 per cent, on Victorian munici-
pal revenues, exclusive of interest; ss. per entry on
all horses or ponies entered for races ; ditto on
coursing dogs; 6d. per head admission to Flem-
ington Flat on “ big ” race days; 5 per cent, on
theatre profits up to a maximum of £2OO per
annum ; a £1 license fee for every gun and fishing-
rod used ; a £5 ditto for every air-gun (which
should just about abolish those weapons); a fee of
£2 on motor-cars, 10s. on motor-bikes, ss. on
push-bikes, and £1 on pleasure vehicles; and,
finally, a tax of 5 per cent, on newspaper profits.
(Nothing is said about 10 per cent, on
the rents of big estates.) The ’Erald has
already mentioned 17 different kinds of iniquity
attaching to the tax on newspaper profits,
but canny David Syme “ lays low and saysnuffin.”
It is a comprehensive little Bill, anyhow, calcu-
lated to bring in something like £200,000 a year,
but Bent yet explained why he allows
cricket and football, not to mention golf and
ping-pong, to escape. Also the individual who
has to pay £1 a year for the joy of dwelling on a
pier all day while he dangles a worm at the end
of a string will probably say something about
“driving capital out of the country.” But
any insult is preferable to the disgrace Melbourne
swallowed the other Saturday, when it cadged
the help of the Lilly Buck-stleet Chows to raise a
few pounds for the Women's Hospital.
“ The Spectre,” in a general sort of way :
Consider the tariff how it sprouts ! It toils not, neither
does it scream, yet Joe Cook, in all his Freetrade gar-
ments, never gets the javvache ! As a mother of ten, a
Freetrade paper like The Bulletin- will doubtless print
my protest 1 I wail to you on bended head ! You must!
I have spoken ! lam a professional protester ! I am a
Protestant! But why ? But what ? But who ? When ?
Certainly, without a doubt! Let me get to it!
I am a robber! I fight in gesticulations! I
rage ! _ I swear ! I smite ! I shriek volumes of horror !
I am big ! I am strong ! I bark verbs at horizontal atmo-
sphere ! I yell ! I shout! I hunger for the blood of pluto-
crats ! Let us arise and protect our young ! Let us
sharpen the axe and lay waste many humans! Let us
make red blood run fantastically around street corners !
Let us gloat on gore ! lam a mother of eleven ! Where
are the days of old? Gone, you say? Not so ! They
riot only in misfortune? They will'come again! We
will sweep all before me ! lam nonplussed ! lam over-
come ! I sweat large drops ! I bite t.he wallpaper in
many places! I kick the Australian-made chair 1
I split my Australian-made boots! I make mad
pain in my British feet ! I gasp in frenzy ! I
foam at the mouth much more so! Yet I am not
downhearted. I am a mother of twelve! I fall
feet downsides on my Australian-made looking-glass ! I
tear my thatch ! I scatter much of it about on my Aus-
tralian-made floorcloth ! I articulate in solemn conclave !
I kneel on the Australian-made cushion, and blast forth a
British prayer against this blastiferous tariff! I am
much fieree ! lam most cross ! Where are the troops?
Where are the weapons of destruction ? Let us revolu-
tionise, and make much consternation in our circumfer-
ence ! Let us belch forth righteous indignation ! Let us
wade in ! Let us split this tariff into many little bits ! Let
us gather together and conspire in many dark places !
Let us beard the Lyne in his den ! Let us raise up much
lamentations, We will block up the roadways ! We will
stop the trams ! We will pull down big buildings ! We
will put forth barricades! We will scatter much ra"e
about! We will shut up the public-houses ! We will be
a devil and perform something tremendous ! I am a
mother of thirteen! I insist on importing things! I
demand freedom! lam a British subject! I will kill
everybody ! Yah !! ! J
The effect of Chamberlain’s Tablets on the
bowels is so mild and gentle that it is not notice-
able, and you never realise that a medicine has
been taken.*
At the last meeting of Huntly (Vic.)
shire council a whining letter was received from
the ownei’s of some pottery works near Bendigo,
asking the council to oppose the suggested exten-
sion of the Factories Act to shires. This pottery
establishment, although in Huntly shire, is close to
the boundary of Bendigo city, where the Factories
Act applies, and is a bright and shining example
of the folly of limiting the protection of the Act
to the city worker. Its pottery “hands” are, to
all intents and purposes, city workers, and fac-
tories on the other side of the road have to work
their employees decent hours, and pay a living
wage, because they are in the city, but this estab-
lishment, being in the country, about 25 yards
from the city, and just across the road, so that the
city worker can hear the country one cursing his
luck, can work its employees as long as it likes,
and pay them just as little as they will stand
without throwing a brick at the owner. And
Huntly shire council cheerfully agreed that it
would support with all its heart and soul any
attempt to prevent the Factories Act being ex-
tended to shires. What the devil did our fore-
fathers bleed and die for but the right to pay
small wages for long hours, free from the interfer-
ence of the Bloated Oppressor !
A BOGEY.
Apropos of this election the Duke of Rutland strongly
urges Unionists to actively fight Socialism, which he
describes as the vilest of political creeds. “The leaders,”
he says, “ought to take off the gloves and show the
hopeless dangers awaiting a country which countenances
its loathsome objects of undiluted atheism, theft, and
immorality. When Englishmen recognise that the
Liberals are only kept in power by a party of Socialists,
they will make a clearance of the Graysons and Keir
Hardies.”
AUSTRALIA : “Hullo, Bull, you 've got one now.”
From a Canadian paper—the old, old
Monkey story
Toronto, Aug 2.—According to Dr. McKay, of this
c 'ty, general foreign mission secretary of the Presby-
terian Church, who is now touring Manchuria, the
Japanese are treating the Koreans in a most barbarous
manner. Hamilton Cassels, K.C., has received the fol-
lowing in a letter from Dr. McKay :
“ 1 was a Japanese enthusiast until I came here, but I
have changed in spite of myself. They have spent tens
of thousands in writing themselves up, and in winning
the confidence of Europe and America, and thus securing
moral support and funds. Yet in realitv they are bar-
barians. Their treatment of Koreans is scarcely less
atrocious than the horrors of Congo. lam told by one of
the oldest missionaries in Korea to-day that there is not
a case on record in which a Korean got justice against a
Japanese, however „reat the offence, and this is made
possible, it is br.,eved, because of the British alliance.
An old courteous Korean gentleman called on me the
other day, and asked whether this was Western civilisa-
tion. He knew Britain’s influence is in this, although
too courteous to say so. I never before blushed for my
country.”
ATTITUDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The attitude of the Opposition towards the Bill. . . .
The extreme section have taken up the attitude. . . .
Mr. Reid maintains his hostile attitude, etc., etc. — Any
paper—any day.
With promises and platitudes we’re quite infuriated,
We are weary and disgusted, but we cannot say we’re
awed,
For things the members told us and the stories they
related
Came to nothing, less than nothing, when they took some
trips “Abroad.”
But we bore it all in silence and let them go on pawning
Poor Posterity’s possessions, and were very rarely rude ;
But we felt we’d reached the limit when the Argus in the
dawning
Told us gravely that they’d taken up “ a certain attitude.”
When you’re puzzled with the wrangles and addled with
the phrases,
When you’ve given up the struggle to distinguish Ayes
from Noes.
The Argus, dim and awful, rises up and blinds and
dazes
By announcing that some member has adopted a new pose.
And dreadful mental pictures grip yourscared imagination,
You see the tableau vivant as you read it in the train,
And the vision hurries with you through station after
station,
And you realise you’ve met that blessed “ attitude ” again.
I race for miles with v> jns—paper visions of the morn,
ing—
Fat men sneering, o men jeering, but all galvanised
and still;
Some are hostil ■ sor ,e are friendly, some are sad and
some are sc . iirg,
Scorning at a deputation-gazing sternly at a Bill.
The air is full of figures—dreadful figures without motion,
Paper echoes of the members—such a dull and awful
brood!
The meaning of the waxworks? Well, I haven’t got a
notion,
But I gaze with awe and wonder at each frozen “ atti-
tude.”
The attitude is weary—it gets footsore every session,
But the word is most descriptive and the papers think
it’s fine,
And the “Sub,” he loves to see it—he likes the old ex-
pression,
And the leader-writers use it almost ev’ry other line.
So the visions will continue and tableaux rise before us
Illustrating current squabbles—lighting up the windv
feuds,
And the dailies in their greatness will take great pains to
bore us
With elaborate descriptions of those dreadful “attitudes.’*
VIC.
KODAK.


TIME WILL TELL!
sfd
Sooner or later it’s bound to
speak, and when it does it
REVEALS THE TRUTH.
It is the ONLY TEST that will
measure the Staying Power of
a pair of Boots or Shoes.
It demands STAUNCH Materials,
STAUNCHLY put together, and
that without sacrificing either
GRACE OR COMFORT,
Our
“CITY”
BOOT.
* you want Footwear that “Father Time”
CANNOT GET RID OF EASILY
Then
TRY THE
CALLAGHAN
“CITY” BOOT,
In Tan American Willow Calf, or Black Douro Calf,
21/-
A PAIR,
POST
or
PAID ANYWHERE
22/-
Our BOOT STYLE BOOK sent Post Free. Send Post Card for a Copy—To-day.
We Exchange Goods. We Refund Money if not satisfied.
CALLAGHAN & SON,
395 George Street,
SYDNEY.
RIDING BREECHES
38/6
To Measure. -
I -
**»»«♦
' m
i m
M |
SP*
THE ACME OF COMFORT.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.—A PERFECT FIT GUARAN-
TEED for Knickers and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement
Forms, Patterns, Post Free on application. Write Now to **.
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 B our Re Street, Melbourne.
-MALTHOIO ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
MALTHOID ROOFING COVERS such a range of dwellings that it
is difficult to find any structure that it does not suit to perfection. It is
satisfactory for HUMPY OR PALACE. Backed by 22 years of practical
experience in high-grade roof-making, Malthoid cannot fail to give every
satisfaction. TRY IT.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET, POST FREE.
'CLmt
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1SS4.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & 00. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & 00.
* SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
d
LAST CHANGE! LAST CHANCE!
PRIZES VALUE £1500
IN THE EIGHT-HOUR. ART UNION
(Under sanction of the Hon. the Attorney-General.)
DRAWN NOVEMBER 2nd, 1907.
First Prize, value £500.
Second Prize, value £100
Third Prize, value £63
And 197 OTHER VALUABLE PRIZES.
The First Prize last year was won by Mr. D. Simpson, Goodooga, N.S.W.,for the modest out-
lay of ONE SHILLING. Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November
7th. To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be
posted.
SECURE A TICKET. APPLICATIONS RECEIVED UP TO OCT. 30 by
Trades Hall, Sydney. ALLAN McDOUCALL, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
1
100 Fine Cigars 17/6
Absolutely the finest Cigar in
Australia at the price. Has a
rich flavor that makes you want
more—a flavor that you won’t
find in any other cigar at or near
the price.
KINO OF ALL
K AND B
HIGH LIFE !
X7/6 Per 100. 9d. Extra Post Free.
Small Box of 4 Post Free, 1/-.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established
25 Years.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TlME—They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS*
SSSffi
NOdnoa
Thousands of Homes Have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have f urnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms—
-387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY.
Therefore, when shopping', say
“GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.”


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cap, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
8c LA<5€R
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Au3t -alian Agents—Messrs E. H. FOTHERQILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt, Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
In talking last week of Poseidon’s chance for
the Caulfield Cup, and admitting it to be a good one, The
Bulletin remarked that “Apologue should beat him at
the weights.” The remark may now be repeated in the
past tense. Apologue should have beaten him at the
weights, and could have done it, and would have done it
had jockey Coffey—who, in this case, was cold Coffey in-
deed—ridden the animal in question so as to get
the most out of him at the weight. The Caulfield
Cup was, in fact, such a palpably good thing for
Poseidon’s stable companion that, notwithstanding the
public fancy for last year’s winner, Apologue started at
7t02, a point behind Poseidon. On paper the horse was
as near a certainty as anything could be in a big Cup
event, provided that he was not to be sacrificed to
Poseidon in the running. The result proved two
things. Firstly, that Apologue was as good a thing as he
looked “ dn paper” ; and, secondly, that he was ridden
in a way which lost the race for him. The public
had naught to say against the gallant victory
of Poseidon. In winning for the second year in
succession, the speedy, stout, plucky and highly intelli-
gent son of Positano performed a great feat, apd was
cheered accordingly. But at the back of the cheers of
the Caulfield multitude there were the wrathful exclama-
tions of hundreds of observers, who declared that
Apologue could have won very easily—“with Poseidon
out of the way.”
Which, considering that Apologue finished only
a little in front of Welcome Tryst, was equivalent
to saying that the Maorilander was not ridden to
beat Poseidon. At the back of the course, nearly a mile
from home, Apologue had dropped into the position of
attendant on the heavily-weighted and heavily-backed
favorite, seven or eight horses being well ahead of them.
So they ran, until Poseidon was bustled up with a view to
getting near the leaders at the turn for home. But
Apologue still lagged somewhat. As the field
of horses turned into the straight it was appar-
ently 50 to 1 on Poseidon beating Apologue, any-
way, for the latter lay lengths behind the favorite.
At the distance post Poseidon, coming with the expected
rattle, had caught the leader, and then came Apologue,
with even more of a rattle, in hopeless pursuit. It was
the judge’s business to record the distance that Poseidon
managed to win by. But it was nobody’s business to
state the number of lengths that Apologue gained on
Poseidon (and all the others) after rounding the final
bend.
On the Caulfield Cup running, there is only one
horse in the Melbourne Cup—apart from the fact that
Poseidon has incurred a penalty of 141 b. If all goes well
with him up to the time of the race and during the per-
formance, Apologue will win. And the connections of
EarnshWs stable will win the money they put on the
“ Melbourne Cup horse ’’—.straight out, and in “doubles ”
with Poseidon. Nothing but bad luck can prevent the
achievement of a remarkable cfiup by means of two
brilliant horses.
Wednesday’s racing at Caulfield reduced the
result of the imminent Cup to a question of: “ Will
Apologue go for it ? ” His victory in the Coongy Handi-
cap, after his great stable companion had won the Eclipse
Stakes (over the same distance, but in slower time), gave
him ah even-money chance for the coming event —“ on
paper.” Yet there was said to be a doubt as to
Apologue starting. This doubt was removed when a dele-
gate from one of Buckley and Nunn’sdrapery work-rooms
waited upon the owner and offered him the uspal bribe.
Newspapers gravely announced that “ satisfactory
arrangements were made.” Satisfactory ! The needy
toilers—there are said to have been about 20 of them in
the syndicate—laid the owner a bet of 30 hundreds to 1
again s't his horse, on the distinct understanding that it
would have been scratched save for this inducement.
Now, £3oooplus the £2500 stake for the winning horse,
would put any owner in the position of standing to win
£5500 if his horse’s number went up.
After the race rumor alleged that the stewards
of the V. A.T.C. called upon Jockey Coffey to explain his
unsatisfactory tactics. Why was his forward movement
so long-delayed, considering that his mount carried only
7st. 131 b. ? A proper subject for official inquiry would
have been the betting transactions connected with the
event. How would a victory of Apologue have suited the
“stable” in comparison with the Poseidon result? The
bookies state that the “stable,” in addition to big wager-
ings on Poseidon for the Caulfield, and Apologue for the
Melb. Cup, stands to win £ll,OOO on the double event.
Poseidon achieved a coincidence in winning the
Eclipse Stakes, on Wednesday, as well as the Caulfield
Cup, two years in succession. His sprint in the Eclipse
Stakes showed him to be as speedy as ever, but he
“blew” considerably on returning to the Birdcage
and gave the impression that he was short of° a
gallop. Again, on Saturday, it was remarked
that Poseidon’s bellows were going for some time after
the Cup. His burly stable companion was less agitated
and even he (Apologue) looked hot in comparison with
Bendigo, who had never given his backers a hope during
the race. Probably the handsome Bendigo will win a bio-
handicap when least expected ; but after his tame per-
formance on Saturday, he seems a bad investment for Lbe
Melbourne Cup.
The same can be said of everything else that
finished behind Welcome Tryst in the Caulfield Cup. The
race was strangely lacking in incident. lolaire led the
fieldfor a mile or more, then Welcome Tryst joined the
leader and gradually wore him down in a decidedly
“staying-like” style. Poseidon, with a brilliant run
caught and passed the 3-year-old, and finally Apologue
came from the clouds, overtaking all but the winner.
Sixteen horses started. The names of 12 of them were
mud.
* * * *
Y. A.T.C. gave away £9600 in connection with
its meeting, which closed on Saturdav. New South
Wales’ whack (£4315) topped the list, and Victoria’s £4085
South Australia’s £715, Maoriland’s £450, and Westralia’s
£35 followed. Caulfield Cup winner, Poseidon, has won
15 razees, been second three times, third three times, and
unplaced four times in 25 starts. His total haul of prize
money to date is £16,732 10s.
■****
A.J.C. meeting at Rand wick is said to have
been a bad one for “ the Ring,” but it proved
disastrous to the welsher in the Reger, where he was
betting valiantly, quite regardless of the tragic story of
Donald McLeod of Flemington. When winners came
along the welsher took their tickets and cheerfully tore
them to bits, remarking airily “No good to me !
meaning thereby, no doubt, “No good to you ! ” Seeirm
how the holders of winning tickets fared, peopie who had
invested on the next race clamored for their cash to
be returned, and in the end the welsher-several
of him, in fact—got run in. For once, the Bench, being
in a sane mood and clothed in sweet reasonableness
brushed aside the legal technicalities through which the
accused’s solicitor tried to wriggle, and decided there was
a, case to answer. But the accused said he would take it
suddenly, and he {rot it—six months hard. Which was
not what he expected. Then, having- done a right and
sensihle thing, the Bench proceeded to make an ass of
itself, and promptly suspended the sentence by givinsr
the welsher the benefit of the First Offenders’ Act. The
money found on the welsher was ordered to be divided
among the witnesses who could establish a claim to it.
On the morning of the Caulfield Saturday, the
Commonwealth Government placed the names of Humph-
rey Oxenham and John Wren on the list of people to
whom neither letters nor telegrams will be delivered.
Why on earth these two men were chosen, and the rest
of the tribe allowed to go free, is inexplicable. It did
not prevent betting, and was merely a Commonwealth
subsidy to the rest of the bookmakers. The Government
should have listed every one or none.
* * * *
. "j T he luck of it! One Christian Moses
(a Maorilander who spends much time in Sydney, and
gathe eda recent big Tatt.’s billiard tourney with attend-
ant prize money and considerable in the way of bets) has
a leg in ” for a £5OOO double which he will land,
a big straight-out bet, if Apologue wins
the Melbourne Cup. Among many others who look to
Apologue to enrich them substantially is a well-known
Victorian racehorse handicapper ; quite early he secured
£{oo to £7.
* * * #
Betting in Sydney during the afternoon and
evening prior to Caulfield Cup indicated the result as far
as Poseidon and Apologue were concerned, and started
dozens of shrewd punters “saving” on the ultimate
winner. All money available against Poseidon at twos
was greedily grabbed by agents of a big Victorian Moses
not Christian this time. One of the Apolosme party
( ar | extremely careful Maoriland Ikey) unloaded £l6OO to
i/000, and the best available against Poseidon at night
was 6to 4. But, strangely enough, Apologue was most
wanted at City Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick next day
(the public generally were unaware of the over-night
happenings); for, while he finished 2to 1 against, 3to 1
and, here and there, 7 to'2 was freely offered that Apo-
logu. s stable chum (Poseidon) wouldn’t win. It was the
other way about in Melbourne, where Poseidon started
5 to 2 and Apologue 7 to 2 against.
* * * *
There is a ghastly whisper that, in the event of
Poseidon winning the Melbourne Cup, quite a number of
.Sydney bookmakers will be what is coarsely known as
up the spout. The recent A. J.C. meeting smote them
on the bullion, Poseidon’s win of the Caulfield Cup hit
them where they lived. Now, the same brute is carrying
su,:h a swag of public money in the Melbourne Cup that.
Moses has but little chance of getting round. Writer is
not a society man, but in his limited acquaintance he
knows four men who backed Poseidon for both Cups at
long odds far back in September, and he hears of others
while the multitude of straight-out bets is legion. A
really big failure of the pencillers to settle would make
the way of Levien’s Totalisator Bill easy.
At City Tatt.’s meeting at Randwick (Syd.), on
Saturday, those whitewashed members of ponydom
Lisnarte, Reprint, and Lamora, scooped half the pro-
gramme and upset the applecart of Christian Moses in an
alarming manner, although he did insist on backers
laying five and six to four on Lisnarte and two to one
on Lamora. Lisnarte is credited with having won the
Flying Handicap in linin. 12£sec.— exactly £sec. faster
than the Australian record hitherto shared by Kirry
Fulminate, Cast Iron, and Airloch. He did it easily too’
and without any signs of being pushed or extended’
Therefore, the cognoscenti scoff, affirming that the fast
time was due to a combination of strong wind, excep-
tionally fast track, and a new timekeeper—especially the
new timekeeper.
* * * *
The richest stake in the world for two-year-
olds, the Futurity Handicap of the U.S.A. worth
$40,000, or roughly 8200 guineas, was won this year by
the ancient sportsman, J. R. Keene, with Colin, the dis-
tance was six furlongs, and the time Imin. 11 l-ssec. The
favorite, with the arrogant name of Barnone, was second
Presumably he will now drop the middle letter of his
name.
* * - *
Last Monday, the Gordon-Bennett Cup Inter-
national Balloon Race started from St. Louis (U.S A )
for the longest distance the aerostats could keep afloat!
The Cup goes to the balloonist who traverses the most
miles of country. Some gigantic balloons were threatened
one of them carrying, or being carried by, 77,000 cubic-
feet of gas. Presumably the handicapping will be based
on the cubic capacity of the gas bags. Britain nominated
six starters, the most formidable of whom was the Hon.
C. S. Rolls, the man who has made a reputation with
both balloons and motor-cars, and whose special creation
the Rolls-Royce car, has come to the front with such a
rush of late. St. Louis was chosen because it is some
hundreds of miles from the ocean and 200 miles from
the nearest big lake. No great scientific interest attaches
to the contest. It is merely a struggle between dirigible
balloons, and has nothing of the heavier-than-air tvpe
competing, and if aerial navigation is to become r. com-
mercial and military success, it is the heavier-than-air
machine that will have to be developed.
The hero of the Pekin to Paris motor race is not
Prince Borghese who won it, but the Frenchman
Godard, who drove the Spyker (Dutch) car. Godard, it
seems, was a selling agent for automobiles in Paris, and
he induced the Dutch maker, Spyker, to place a car at
his disposal by representing thal'the whole of the cost of
the journey was to be borne by the promoting paper
Lb Matin. The paper promised nothingof the sort; all it
had arranged to do was to supply petrol along the route
and this bargain it faithfully carried out. The car duly
arrived i n Paris, and Godard sold the extra tyres and spare
parts to raise the passage money to Marseilles, where he
bluffed a shipping company into giving him credit for the
passage of himself and car to China. There he arrived stony
broke. But that was nothing to a man of Godard’s per-
suasive ability, and he induced a bank to advance him
money on the prize he would receive for completion- the
journey. The said prize was a myth. The magneto
went wrong in the Gobi Desert, and the irrepressible
Frenchman got his car hauled, on tick, totherailway, where
he took it on tick to Tomsk. There they greeted him as
a Heaven-born genius, which he is. From Tomsk he sent
word to Spyker to hurry a mechanic and magneto from
Holland, and when the car was repaired he went back to
where he had boarded the train and started to make up
the lost two weeks. He did it, and caught the De Dions
somewhere near the frontiers of Europe. In Germany he
was met by the angry Mr. Spyker, who kicked him off
the car. Spyker seems to have recognised nothing
wonderful about the business, excepting, of course
Godard’s cheek. Godard climbed on a train and went
on to Paris, where they set him on a pedestal, and
swore to boycott all Spyker cars wherever they met
them. To borrow a car in Amsterdam, above all
places (it is easier to borrow a railway in Judaia); get
round to China, and drive back across Asia and Europe—
oil tick - only to be kicked off the driving seat bv an
indignant owner, is certainly a world’s record. Godard
deserves a statue—-and so does Spyker, for his meanness.
One of the spare or emergency cars specially
constructed by the Darracq Co. for the use of its team in
the recently run Kaiser Cup contest has found its way to
Melbourne. It is a 40 h.p. Shock absorbers fitted fore
and aft make it about as easy as a feather bed. Shod
with Dunlop tyres, and totally devoid of top hamper, it
looks capable of any speed, and a Melbourne writer tells
of its pioneer run in Australia, which event took place
along the secluded Woodend Road. A stiff northerly
breeze was roaring across the plains, and was disagreeable
at 20 miles an hour. As the speed went up the
whistle of the wind became a roar and then a scream •
and it seemed to billow against the mouth and nostrils’
making respiration difficult. The car rushed down a
long grade at seventy miles an hour, and the wind
became as hard as water. A sudden wave of it washed
the mechanician's cap into the pressman’s face, and left
him dazed and sore for the rest of the day. After
travelling 35 miles they turned back to be home in time
for lunch, and again flew over the rough, bumpy road at
speeds ranging from 55 to 68 miles an hour. The control
is so easy that even at that headlong' pace it is possible to
steer a winding course between patches of road metal;
and, altogether, the experience of the journalist was that
for solid comfort the speedy cars are the best. Low-
speed cars are notoriously bumpy.
* * * *
Twodays before the Warrnambool to Melbourne
road race a quantity of tin tacks were discovered scat-
tered along the Terang-Camperdown section of the road.
As far as possible the road was cleared, but scores of the
tacks must have escaped notice. The only thing that
can find a tack in the dust with unerring certainty is a
bicycle tyre. That will pick it up every time. The con-
sequence was that dozens of the riders in the Warrnam-
bool to Melbourne race punctured near Terang. The
Dunlop Co. offered £lO reward for information that would
lead to the discovery of the miscreants responsible.
Information has been forthcoming, and a local resident
is to be charged with “having placed an obstruction on
a road whereby the life and limbs of his Majesty’s liege
subjects were endangered and placed in jeopardy,
against his peace, dignity, and Crown.” It’s a formidable
charge, and the Dunlop Co. is very properly out for
blood.
* * * *
Cycle track-racing “seems very dead,” says
S.A. Cricket Association in its annual report. The expen-
sive Adelaide Oval track, which claims to be the best in
Australia, did not bring in a penny of revenue during the
past year.
* * * m
If the attendance at Melbourne Exhibition
track last Saturday evening is any gauge of the popularity
of bike carnivals this season, then the promoter and the
pie-biter are in for a cold time. Saturday’s outbreak,
engineered by the “ Victorian Motor and Cycling Club,”
was well advertised, and offered motor races, and the re-
turned world’s champions—A. J. Clarke, E. A. Pye
and Floyd MacFarland—as attractions ; yet but a
poor humble 500 passed the turnstiles, and the
grandstand looked more lonesome than the Great
Australian Desert. Of course the meeting was only
a. breather, a rehearsal, but fancy champions
like Clarke and MacFarland careering 45 times round that
oval saucer for prizes that, all told, amounted to only a
wretched £52. Not so long ago Mac would have de-
manded that much as appearance money only. On top of
the other troubles, the stars got beaten. The Mile
Scratch went to our old friend G. J. Farley, with Austral
winner Thomas second ; and the Carnival Handicap
was annexed by S. E. Gordon, on the 45yds.
mark, with the same old Thomas a wheel
behind, from the 15yds. mark. Numerous silent
but persistent Ike.vs pervaded the ground and offered 6
to 4 Thomas, 2to 1 Millard and Gordon, etc. The motor-
bike races were the anticipated tumultuous but uncertain
circumstance, these machines having a disreputable
habit of going wrong at critical times. After Cecil de
kraga, J. Hogan, and Reg Darge had won their heats, on
machines of make and horse-power unspecified, the
writer waited about a year while the riders got ready for
the final by transferring the internal to the external com-
bustion, or reversing the cut-off, or something. Then he
left— about midnight. Heaven knows if there was any
final, or who won it. A 30-miles-an-hour motor-bike race
on the diminutive Exhibition track is a threatening cir-
cumstance, loaded with fearsome possibi ities ; but what’s
the good of it when a man has to sit on the grass and
coax the weapon for an hour before i t will consent to gee ?
* * * * °
The Cyclists’ Union meeting at the Sports
Ground, Sydney, on Saturday last, saw a magnificent
smash. The Cyclists’ Union track meetings generally
produce at least one fine spill. The occasion was the 10-
mile test to decide who should go to Brisbane to repre-
sent N.S.VV. in the amateur championshin contests Four
pacers were put in to make the velocity‘hum, and every-
thing went well till the 10th lap, when' one man ran off
on to the grass edge. Fearing he would spreadeagle
across the track those behind him slowed down, and were
immediately run into by the riders who were coming up
from the rear in a mighty hurry to get level. Down went
11 men, some of whom travelled long distances after
striking the cement. Half of them ought to have been
killed, but barring the fact that they were well scraped on
some prominent parts, no one was seriously injured. The
machines sustained the most damage, some of them beinn-
bent and buckled out of all resemblance to a well-bred
bicycle. The result of the meeting was to pick out
Mutton as the half-mile representative. The ten-miles
was abandoned, and the five-miles run off instead. This
resulted in S. R. Goodhew, of Marrickville, getting home
closely pursued by H. N. Gannon (Enfield Club),
and S. Vv. Beet, of the Western Suburbs, in that order.
It was a close finish, only a foot separating the second
and third men, while Goodhew won by inches only.
The League of Victorian Wheelmen held quite
an exhaustive inquiry into the allegations against Dobie
winner of the Warrnambool to Melbourne road race, no
less than 22 witnesses being examined at three sittings.
As everybody knows, Dobie was honorably acquitted of
having accepted pace from a motor-cyclist. Dobie rode
a machine fitted with Barnet Glass and Co.’s “Flite”
tyr B es, and got through the arduous ride without a single
puncture. b
* * * *
The first set of Michelin patent detachable rims
seen in Australia was last week fitted to the 20-24-h.p.
Brown car of Mr. C. Levien, St. Kilda-road, Melbourne.’
The great point is the ease with which the tyres can be
detached. The device is simple enough, consisting of an
ordinary rim with the tyre blown at full pressure and put
on to a metal band, which is a fixture on the felloe of the
wheel. Eight small bolts and clamps prevent the rim
creeping and slipping off. Those desirous of having these
rims fitted are warned that orders can only be accepted
in priority, as the rims come to hand. At present 810 x 90>
is the smallest size made.
* * * *
Though its best “gates” average barelv a
quarter those of the League, the Vic. Football Associa-
tion has an idea that it is the largest pebble on the
beach. It even thinks itself no end of a boulder
The other day it passed its balance-sheet for the
two semi-finals and the final—Receipts : £795 9s. Bd.
Expenditure: Ground management, £49 10s • EMCC
(for use of the paddock), £149 3s. lid. ; expenses of com-
peting teams, £2l 7s. ; to sundry charities, £35 Bs. 9d. • to
' A !’ to each of the ten Association clubs,
£4B 12s. After that it casually asked the Richmond club
it it had applied for admission to.the League. Richmond
said it had ; North and West also owned up to a hanker-
ing after League glories and gates. Thereupon the rest
of the delegates, having scouted a proposal to confer
with the League, carried a'motion that anv club applying
for admission to the League ipso facto ceases‘to belong
to the Association, and becomes, unless the League takes
it in, a mere band of derelict ’bailers. All of which shows
how little savee the Association has. If it would
talk sweetly to the League, and admit that it plavs
second fiddle—and it obviously does discourse music
upon that instrument—it could come to a give-and-
take understanding, whereby the best Ass. clubs would
swap places with the worst ams every season
so that the best club would ultimately get to the top of
the tree; while the worst would have a powerful induce-
ment to get a move on. At present the worst club in
each body captures almost as much gate and glory as the
best, w-hich doesn’t tend to improve the play, while an
advancing Ass. club like Brunswick has rio hope of
atihcrinj* in the £250 that each Deaj>*ue club gjot as its
share of this year’s finals, but has to be satisfied instead
with a shabby £4B.
* * * *
Up to time of writing, the English Northern
Union Rugbyites have made a poor stand against the-
Maoriland professionals. The visitors have played and
won three matches scoring 70 points to the Englishmen's
Everybody understands in a general way that Eng-
lish amateur Rugby is dead, and played chiefly bv
wastrels and society dudes, who are about 20 years'-
behind the time. But the Northern Union Rugby was.
supposed to be of a superior brand, and, of course ' mav
yet prove to be so. The teams played so far do not seem
to be front-rankers ; but, nevertheless, the English game'
iw n °''i A ® socl ‘J ti . on ' a combined team representing
Maoriland and Australia could be sent to the Cold Land
to play Association, it would be interesting as providing a.
real test of the merits of Englishmen and Australasians..
But, unfortunately, the British Association Sr;.me does
not seem to be general enough in Australasia to make
that possible.
* • * *
The first round of Melb. Club cricket left
Prahran (late Hawksburn), East, Collingwood, and Fitzrov
a game to the good, and Northcote, Essendon, Richmond
and North as they were. Saints and ’Varsitv made a
draw of it; and Carlton played the bve with the M.O.C.
Nothing startling happened, though Hazlitt, of M.C.C.,
pulled his side out of the mud with a score of 103. Other
centuries were McAlister’s 120, young Tommy Horan’s
121 not out, and the 135 of Colin McKenzie, a Fitzrov
youngster. This Fitzroy club has made a good, long-
headed move by giving: club-tickets to promising bo vs
just out of the State schools. It has got no less
than 10 of them in its second-grade team, including
the top-notchers of the champion school team—Gold-
street, Clifton Hill. The idea is to prevent the youngsters
acquiring happy-go-lucky methods during the next few
years, and, by training them the way they should go, to
presently turn them into competent inter-Staters. If Aus-
tralia took half as much trouble with its cadets and bud-
ding 1 riflemen as it does with its cricketers and footballers,
it might sleep more peacefully in the years to come.
* * « *
In spite of the ferocious gamble on the Caul-
field and Melbourne Cups, there are still a few people
who take an interest in cricket, j'udging by the enthusi-
astic crowds that rolled up at the various Sydney grounds
to watch the progress of the First Grade competition
matches. The display of batting was very mediocre, the
nearest approach to a century being H. H. Massie’s 91
which he made for University against North Sydney.
Folkard, of Callan Park, was next on the list with
72 against Glebe, while the mighty Noble was dis-
missed for 6(5. Among the bowlers, Macartney, of
Gordon was easily best, with seven of Balmain’s wickets
for 29 runs. Loudoun, of Redfern, came next with four
of Middle Harbor’s sets of sticks for SO; while S. E.
G/ejrory.’ of Waverley, was a good third, having taken five
of Paddington for 40. Among Gregory’s bag was Noble
who was caught by Howard off his ball. Altogether it
was a disappointing afternoon. Batsmen and bowlers
were both probably thinking of their bets on the two
Cups, and of how they would look in the new bathing
costume on the morrow.
* * * *
The argument between the V.C.A. and the
M. 0.0. as to the payment for the hire of the Metropolitan
Cricket Ground for the four matches against the English
team was settled'ast week by Minister MacKinnon and
Justice Cussen, plenipotentiaries, one for each side. The
agreement says that if the total receipts from the four
matches are under £4200 no ground fee is to be paid.
Should they exceed that sum, 26 per cent, is to be
paid on the excess up to £6500 ; should they go
higher still, then 30 per cent, on the said excess
will have to be anted up. So the M.O.C. still has
the thick end of the stick. If the four “gates”
total £6OOO, as they probably will, the Englishmen get
£3OOO, the M.C.C. £450, and the V.C.A. £2550, out of
which to pay expenses, which are sure to be £2OOO, and
may easily reach £2soo—besides which there is the
£lO,OOO guarantee to be remembered. Still, the M.C.C.
doesn’t get quite all it asked at first. On gates totalling,
say, £7OOO, it will now get £B4O, as against the £lO5O it
demanded; but besides this it will get its share of the
V.O.A ; dividend at the close of the season, presuming
there is any dividend.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : Hock Keys, the Sydneyside light-
weight, gave Melbourne an obj'ect-lesson in scientific
boxing when he met Frank Thorn at the Athletic Pavilion
the other night. Melbourne had seen Keys in action
before, but on previous occasions he had scarcely troubled
to extend himself. He recognised that he had a tough
and knubbly warrior to engage in the Westralian, and
came up as fit as a gladiator, with the result that Thorn’s
boxing, however strenuous, looked vain, ill-directed, and
amateurish by comparison. And yet Thorn is no slouch,
even among the best we possess. On this night’s showing
I should say Keys is far and away the best scientist
in Australia, not forgetting his old boxing companion,
Ted Nelson. Keys put it all up and down the Westerner,
who looked small before him, although Hock had only
l£lb. the advantage of the weights. But the N. S. Waler
h isn’t a thundering punch, and Thorn can take punish-
ment enough to break the heart of a working bullock. In
the 18th chapter of the revelation that came to Thorn it
looked as if he were going, but he survived, and finished
gamely. The referee said “Keys!” and Hook (whose
sparkling style is more suggestive of champagne) received
a roar of applause from an immense crowd.
* * * *
The pretty colored post cards issued by The
Dunlop Co. of Melbourne at the nominal price of 2d. per
packet, are sufficiently seductive to excite the yearn of
every p.c. collector. Also they are worthy a niche in
the local Hall of Fame for having struck a verv high
grade of Australian attainment in the craft of the artist
and color printer.*
* » ■» *
The Soccer footballers of Sydney are beginning
to get ideas. To give the game a good advertisement and
increase its importance in the public eve the ruling body
is considering the advisability of trying to engineer a
visit of an English team during next season. The trouble
is that the game is practically unknown in Melbourne
and Westralia is the only other State in the Common-
wealth where it is practised to any extent, and it is
doubtful if the Westralians are sufficiently advanced
at it to make a decent holiday. The Sydney men, on
present form, would probably make a fine stand against
an English XI. The question of finance is the stumbling
block, for the Soccer crowd is far from affluent.
(Continued on page 30.)
DYSPEPSIA.
Mr. Towerton, of Warwick Road, Ipswich, Q.,
who through indigestion and liver complaint,
allowed his system to run down until dyspepsia
gripped him within its relentless grasp, tells how
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills gave him im-
mediate relief, overcame the spasmodic actions of
W. TOWERTOM, JN.
(From a photo.)
the stomach, and subdued the
retching and straining of his
starved and weakened system,
arid by assisting in the diges-
tion and assimilation of food,
restored him to health. He
writes “ About four years
ago I became subject to severe
bilious attacks, and could keep
nothing in the stomach.
Immediately after eating I
would be attacked with violent
fits of vomiting, the straining
and retching being very dis-
tressing. This continued for
some months, and notwith-
standing the use of many kinds
of medicine, the spasms in the
stomach were always more or less severe after
•every meal My father, who had proved the
■efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a
blood purifier, advised me to take a course of these
puls. I obtained a bottle from the local chemist,
and took two at first, and one each night after.
1 his gave me immediate relief, and in a few davs
the vomiting ceased altogether, I was able to
digest iny food, my appetite returned, and I was
gradually restored to health. I have never had
any sickness to speak of since. My father and
myself fully believe in Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Puls,. and recommend them to others who are
suffering from indigestion, biliousness, constipa-
tion, or any stomach complaints.”


KUGELMANN’S
©
IH
m
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
r
v
SSR*
Test
the
Weight
when you are buying
a new bicycle and
when you are making
such test, ask your dealer
to show you a machine built of
Eadie Fittings.
Then compare its weight with that
of others and note the difference.
You will find it pounds lighter, yet
just as strong!
That means enhanced speed, comfort
and enjoyment!
If you are interested write, to day, for
latest Hrt Catalogue.
D. Y. RENNIE,
Representing' Birmingham Small Arms Co.,
Ltd., 4 Stock Exchange Building's,
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
dTflilW BUI'TB,
WORKS : REDDITCH, ENG.
A FORTUNE
IS OERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written byR. iierschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late,Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
« REFEREE ” says The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R.. HERSCHELL <O/ London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cot Oot and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
Amusements.
Victoria Racing' Club.
CUP WEEK.
LARGEST ENTRIES FOR MANY YEARS.
ACCOMMODATION FOR THOUSANDS.
DERBY DAY, 2nd NOVEMBER.
CUP DAY, sth NOVEMBER.
OAKS DAY, 7th NOVEMBER.
STEEPLECHASE DAY, 9th NOVEMBER.
H. Byron Moore, Secretary.
Under the distinguished jpl Patronage of His
Excellency the Governor,
Sir Harry Rawson a nd Miss Rawson.
ST. JAMES’ HALL, Phillip Street, Sydney,
THIS THURSDAY EVENINU.
an ELOCUTIONARY & MUSICAL RECITAL
Will he given by MISS SARA COLLINS,
Pupil of Mr. Laurence Campbell.
Doors open at 7.30 p.m. Commence at 8 p.m
RESERVED SEATS, 3s. Carriages at 10n.ni
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Lessee : Mr. Prank Musgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Andkrson.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT,
THE EEMALE SWINDLER.
By WALTER MELVILLE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal, sydn e y.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 26,
For the First Time in Australasia, the Delightful Comedy,
in four acts, by Winchell Smith and Byron Ongley,
adapted froni George Barr MeCutcheon’s Novel,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted bv J. C. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON
and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE LAST EfGHT NIGHTS and FAREWELL PER-
FORMANCES IN SYDNEY of the Popular Irish
Comedian, ANDREW MACK.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
ARRAH-IN A-POGUE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 26—“ TOM MOORE.”
For Six Nights, and One Matinbe Only.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
yy ONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
The Giant of Australian Amusement Enterprise.
Sole Proprietorand Director, Mb. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
NEW SHOWS. DAY
NEW PAGEANTS. and
NEW FEATURES. NIGHT.
CAPTAIN McCLOUD’S WILD WEST
SHOW—FREE.
BAND RECITAL, SUNDAY NIGHT.
FIFTY The World’s Great est Novelties FIFTY.
Adults, 6d. ADMISSION—ChiIdren, 3d.
jLJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, OCT. 24, FRIDAY, OCT. 25,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of DOROTHY.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 26,
The ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
The Reigning Success of London’s Lyric Stage.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
New theatre royal, Melbourne.
Lessee BLAND HOL’T.
LAST TWO WEEKS in MELBOURNE,
BLAND HOLT and his Popular Dramatic Co. in
THE GREAT RESCUE
Spectacular Tableaux by Mr. John Brunton.
Prices —35., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
rriHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
JL in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickard*.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Immense Success of SEELEY and WEST.
Magnificent Reception of MDLLE. RHODESIA.
Emphatic Success of MR. EDWARD CRANSTON & CO.
in “TERRY, or TRUE TO HIS TRUST.”
THE MOLASSOS, Cyclonic and Whirlwind Dancers
HAYMAN and FRANKLIN, Hebrew Comedians, In
“A MATRIMONIAL AGENCY.”
NELLIE KILBURN. LOTTIE KAY. FRED BLUETT.
QPERA HOUSE, MEL B O URN I\
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
PRICE & REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES-Grand Prix Motor Race.
FIVE WHITELEYS, Acrobats, Wire Walkers.
LA SYLPHE, Classical Eccentric Dancer.
MONAHAN & SHEAHAN, Musical Artists.
FOUR JUGGLING GERALDOS.
LA BLANCHE, Phenomenal Dancer.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s, 2s Od, 2s, Is
■view bijou Theatre, Melbourne.
Under the direction of Charles Holloway.
THURSDAY, OCT. 24, FRIDAY, OCT. 25,
Last Two Performances of THE COLLEEN BAWN.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 26,
CHARLES HOLLOWAY’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including the Charming Young
Australienne, MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY,
in the Exciting Sensational Drama,
THE ROGUES OE THE TURE.
By Arrangement with Mr. J. C. Williamson.
HEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE,
Every Ev ening at 8 o’clock. For Matinees see Daily Papers.
BALLARAT EUREKA STOCKADE,
A PICTURE STORY of the GOLDFN 'FIFTIES.
Thrilling and Amusing Animated PICTURE DISPLAY.
Films all Absolutely New and Original.
Prices—3s., 25., and Is.
AUSTRALASIAN CINEMATOGRAPH CO. P’pty., Ltd.,
3l QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
MELBOURNE.
Sole and Equal Owners WIRTH BROS.
THE OFFICIAL OPENING LAST SATURDAY
A BRILLIANT FUNCTION.
A GLORIOUS ASSEMBLAGE. 5000 PEOPLE PRESENT,
And all Unanimously Proclaimed Olympia a
HUGE SUCCESS.
WIRTH BROS.’ BIG NEW SIX-FOLD CIRCUS
with Hundreds of Performers and Animals.
USUAL PRICES. USUAL PRICES.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, AND ALL
HOLIDAYS.
Missing Friends.
HENRY BOSE.
TF HENRY BOSE, who, in the month
of August, 1802, was living at Ballarat,
and has not since been heard of, will apply as
under, he will hear of something to his advantage.
If he is dead, any person able to give particulars
of date and place of his death, will please
communicate with CRICK & FREEMAN,
Solicitors, MALDON, Essex, England, or with
their agent, W. A. Freeman, Solicitor, 117 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
■
\
S^y
l
ttw
opeed
A
TYRE’S
SQUARE
TREADS.
The Continental
.Square Tread
Tyre has estab-
lished a world-
wide reputation
for durability.
And its popu-
larity is wide-
spread—in Eng-
land, the United
States, France,
Germany, here
at home in Aus-
tralia —in fact,
wherever Mo-
toring is in-
dulged in to any
extent, you will
find the Conti-
nental Square
Tread Tyres to
the frbnt.
Sydney Depot:
Clarence Street.
TYRES
NON-
SKIDS.
There is no bet*
ter Tyre made
for use on wet
roads than these
Continental
Non-Skids, and
every day wit-
nesses an in-
creased demand
for them by
Australian mo-
torists.
These Tyres
have distin-
guished them-
selves in .nearly
ail the big mo-
toring events of
the past season.
Ask to see these
CONTINENTAL
NON-SKIDS.
Melbourne Depot:
46 & 48 Market St.
“ When the Monkey comes to town ” is so much
on the cards that any device which will euchre his grab
for Australian gold must be weloomed by banks, mints,
treasuries, and other gilt concerns. O. H. M. Pain,
managing director of Chubb’s (Australia), has just
returned from London with the latest devices for beating
not only Burglar Bill, common or garden earthquakes,
and the underpaid clerk who has backed a stiff ’un, but
with arrangements calculated to baffle such individuals
as “Joey” when they start to rush the National Chest in
a “ Secesh ” riot. Chubb’s people now test their safes by
firing 1001 b. shells at them, and great is the sale in the
South American republics. Such a safe as this will beat
anything. Two sheets Cammel’s ’99 steel, and two sheets
of Jin.-5-ply armor plating, the whole combined info a
solid slab 2in. thick. The plates are riveted together with
collared rivets also armor-plated, and absolutely effect-
ive against all known drills. Such or any other Chubb safe
can be fitted with the quadruple chronometer lock—so
far the only known effective combination against A, B,
and C, each of whom holds a key to the situation in the
shape of brie of the three keys which open the securities
safe. Until the advent of the “ Quadruple Chronometer
Lock ” there was nothing to prevent A, B, and C opening
the strong-room at irregular hours, and being found
gagged, to lend color to the masked burglar yarn. Then
there is the romance to be written of the pretty girls, the
abstracted keys, and the opened safe with the duplicates.
But the “Quadruple Chronometer” says “No” to this,
because you simply press an electric button, which shoots
the bolt, whilst the four chronometers are set for proper
opening office hours, and it is only the Powers of Dark-
ness that can beat those four chronometers “ on guard.”
There is no lock to blow off, and if one chrono-
meter did stop, any one of the three will be there
to see that the door can be opened at the proper time
only. Earthquakes don’t have any effect on Chubb’s,
they have been through all that kind of thing at Val-
paraiso and elsewhere. Amongst other novelties appeal-
ing to Bank Directors, Safe Deposit Managers, Masters of
Mints, Government Treasurers, Jack Wrens, and other
moneyed individuals that Mr. Pain occupies his spare hours
with, are combination alphabetical locks, whose com-
binations can be altered every day in a minute without
taking off the locks, and the safe deposit locker door,
which automatically locks itself against the renter’s key
when the key isn’t worked or authorised to be worked by
the proper renter. For “ How it’s Done ” ask Mr. Pain.
Then Mr. Pain will relate to you how Astor lias beaten
the Deluge with a £l5OO door in his vaults specially built
to keep his bank notes dry when the Floors of Heaven
open and fall through the bottom of the Thames, under-
neath which Bill Astor keeps the Family Records.
“Chubb Stories,” by O. H. M. Pain, should make in-
teresting reading if published at 6d.
The whole box and dice of a Governor’s
Address to Parliament is just foolishness, and not
the least part of the foolishness is the bunkum
of the Address-in-fteply. The Premier, having
heard the Governor read the Address itself (which
the Premier had composed), proposes that a
committee be elected to frame a suitable reply.
He chooses a few of his own followers, and
they sheepishly troop out to the back yard or
somewhere. There they find an official with a
piece of paper which contains a few high falutin
and stilted phrases already printed—the same
phrases which have done duty for years past.
The faithful committee-men turn tail, one of them
waggling the piece of paper, and, timidly filing
into the House, present the document to the
Speaker, and announce that they hope it will do.
And the Speaker regards it dispassionately, and
smothers hi 3 opinion that school kids could have
done it better.
Another Altona Bay item :
Artona Bay, Melbourne, the site of the brown coal
deposits which are the subject of so much touching
faith on the part of Premier Bent, was the scene of the
last great sale of the defunct land boom. Altona Bay is
a beach lying between Williamstown and Laverton, just
to the south of the Williamstown racecourse. It is flat,
uninteresting country, covered with light scrub, and
capable of grazing a few cows to the square mile. But
in ’B9 it was seized by the syndicate and boomed as no
other place was ever boomed before or after.
Miles from Melbourne, and in a position abso-
lutely without means of communication, the shindikit
mapped out a model suburb—almost a model city.
It based its prophecies on the assumption that the
racecourse line would be extended to the beach, and advts.
costing thousands of pounds were issued, showing Altona
Bay “as it will be in 10 years’ time.” Not only were
huge sites reserved for town halls, markets, theatres,
etc., but drawings of all these immense buildings were
prepared, and plans showing the Altona Bay of the future
—a town beside which modern Paris was to be a mere
circumstance—were displayed all over Melbourne. There
was a mighty esplanade on the water front, a pier with a
music hall at the end, and from this pier fast steamers
were to run every five minutes to Port Melbourne. The
public chewed the bait to some extent. One sale was
held, and “business blocks’’were sold up to £5 a foot.
Then the bottom dropped out of the boom, and the
second sale never took place. For years afterwards the
estate was frequently referred to in the Insolvency Court,
and the immense poster remained on the hoarding of the
Anglican cathedral in Swanston-street until its edges
grew ragged as an oriflamme. From time to time various
capitalists have endeavored to turn the brown coal
deposits to account, but without success, so Bent’s
scheme has to be regarded with a block of rock salt.
A report on the English hop crop crept
into Sydney Telegbaph’s financial column on
October 17, and included this interesting item :
There are 1784 acres less than were in cultivation last
year. Whilst 31 years ago the acreage was over 72,000,
now there are only 44,938 acres. As tar back as 1819 it
was 51,014 acres, when the consumption of beer was not
more chan one-fifth of what it is to-dav. There is only
one reason for this grubbing of hops in England—they do
not pay the producer. Free imports are killing this
industry, as they have done many others.
Yet the English hop-industry is supplied with
cheap enough labor. Hops are grown mostly in
Kent, at London’s back door, and in the season
the derelicts, the homeless, and the shoeless tramp
out from the city and pick the crop for almost
nothing. The farmers don’t even supply roofs
to cover their workers; the hop-pickers sleep
in the open air. Most of them have neither
blankets nor cooking utensils. And, even with
this cheap labor, the industry is dying. High
rents, and the huge direct taxation that, has to be
heaped on the British farmer to make up for the
lack of Customs revenue, make the English hops
dear despite all the cheap labor, and the better-
paid Continental worker comes along and under-
sells Bull in his own market.


inexpensive TABLE SILVER
Order by Mail.
You can purchase by MAIXi with as certain
satisfaction as if you visit our showrooms per-
sonally. All goods sent CARRIAGE FREE to
any part of Australasia.
SPECIAL VALUE.
CAEJ BASKET, Silver-Plated, Richly Fluted and Embossed.
Post 20/- Pree.
Please mention this
paper when ordering.
SPECIAL VALUE.
DESSERT or TRIFLE DISH, Silver-Plated Frame,
Pressed Glass Dish.
Post 9/6 Pree.
Free and Post Paid
Your request on a post card will bring you
a copy of our ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
FOR 1907 by return of Mail. Better send for
a copy now. W© send it POST FREE to any
address.
SPECIAL VALUE.
Double JAM DISH, Silver-Plated Frame, Floral Decorated
China Dishes.
Post 15/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
BISCUIT BARREL, Floral China,
Silver-Plated Frame.
Post 9/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SUGAR BOWL and TONGS, Silver-
Plated, Blue Glass Lining.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SERVIETTE RING, Silver-Plated,
Hand Engraved.
Post 1/6 Free.
SPECIAL VALUE.
Four CUP EGG FRAME and SPOONS,
Pure Silver-Plated.
Post 21/- Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
BUTTER DISH, Silver-Plated Lid and
Base, Glass Dish.
Post 5/6 Pree.
S*
SPECIAL VALUE.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Silver-
Plated Frame, Floral China Bowls.
Post 10/6 Pree.
> •.*
30 .
Me&Sl A].r:fi;.'i '
SPECIAL VALUE.
TOILET MIRROR, Silver-Plated, Richly
Embossed, Size 9in x sin.
Post 8/6 Pree.
f
CTO
ISI
m
SPECIAL VALUE
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4 bottles, Crystal
Glass, Silver-Plated Frame.
Post 14/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
FLOWER EPERGNE, Silver-Plated
Frame, Green, Ruby, or Amber Glass.
Post 15/6 Eree.
(3M
m
SPECIAL VALUE-
BUTTER DISH, Silver-Plated Lid
and Base, Glass Dish.
Post 7/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
SWEET DISH, Silver-Plated Frame,
Floral China Dish.
Post 4/6 Free.
SPECIAL VALUE.
OAK BISCUIT BARREL, Silver-
Plated Mounts.
Post 12/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE
SALT CELLAR and SPOON, Silver-
Plated Base, Glass Dish.
Post 2/- Pree.
iff
' .. j
Ld A i
11]
JJJ
II
SPECIAL VALUE.
BREAKFAST CRUET. Silver-
Plated Frame, Glass Bottles.
Post 10/6 Eree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
ftAT.AH BOWL and SERVERS, Silver-Plated
Mounts, Fancy China Bowl.
Post 15/- Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
TOAST RACK, Silver-Plated, Highly Burnished.
Post 5/6 Pree.
m
!!nnmV'.’'. ■•• •■ ‘
SPECIAL VALUE.
.TAM DISH, Silver-Plated Frame, Bubv
Tinted Glass Dish.
Post 9/6 Pree.
SPECIAL VALUE.
CAKE DISH, Silver-Plated Frame, Floral
China Dish, Size 7in x 7in.
Post 7/6 Pree.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815,817 George-st.,
Opposite New
Railway Station,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


A FRIEND WHEN YOU NEED ONE MOST.
m —
:
r
• /-
** 4
:
>c
fi
m
i ■
/s''-
im
'mm
- . V
Jfe-T /MS?®'**' 5
V * ** ’-V "“'■{"
v- <;- * v- *>B? *■ *-"t t pr S •*
7i*r^
r *; X K ~ ~
■'X /-I
■ f r .:lr* i
m
: )
« '-jh
pt,;
*, * ■ " ** *
A Friend in the Humpy “ Out-back/' A Friend in the Picnic Camp in the Bush.
A Friend in the Cabin of the Liner, or in the Drawing-room of the Mansion on
the foreshores of "the Beautiful."
Is a time n method which overcomes entirely the difficulty
of determining by ocular examination in the dark room
when development is complete, and avoids the danger of
fogging the film. It gives perfectly uniform negatives with
correct exposures at all times, and because the treatment
which is proper for correct exposures is the best that can be
given to under and over exposures, it removes the tempta-
tion to over-develop an under-exposed film in the hope that
more detail may be obtained, and gives as good a result as
can be got in any other way with over-exposures, avoiding
the danger of under-developing.
THE KODAK DEVELOPING TANK IS, HOREOVER,
OPERATED IN DAYLIGHT. YOU SI/TPLY PUT THE
FILiT IN THE TANK.
AN INVITATION. Call at any of our Branches and have the
—————. process demonstrated and explained. "Write
to us for particulars.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS FOR KODAK LiniTED—
BARER & ROUSE Propt’y., Ltd.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,” 284 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 78-80 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE.
37 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE. RUTHVEN STREET, TOOWOOMBA.
The accompanying letter represents
the sentiments of over 1000 Hotel-
keepers throughout Australasia who
are using ECKERSLEY'S AERATED
WATER MACHINES.
Machines are sold for
Cash or Terms from
£lB and upwards.
COOKTOWN
Tr»«sc»ntifiental Hotel,
'•BROOME OODNAOArrA
f<?G
7
k .f[RTH
4Uss>t'sJr+ie setyf&f -&u
/y- 7/ */
<Z\e /*mviuxy+i& Tuz+x, 7
' .. *ry 7/ . .
/tZt***r
VZ</4*^
ZtaTgy
/<»»«>
ROCKHAMPTON*)
<?*&*€*' \
oV2+**s /K 7 /. ,r
BRISBANE.'
NEWCASTLE .'
SYDNEY.
.ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
Agents—Queensland : Elliot & Hanocrne, 113 Eagle St., Brisbane
■•■.; '■-.•■■■ '■ . ■!. > ■'. ... '■■" '
W.A. : Wm. Sandover & Co., Hay Street, Perth
. ' ■ - ■>. ,-.v ■ - ' /- • • : *
SOLE PROPRIETORS AND PATENTEES: ECKERSLEY & SONS, Queen Street, Melbourne


Publications.
Translated French Novels (Some Illustrated).
.Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue Free on receipt of 2£d. (letter postage),
A. DE SAULE, 20 Rue de la Michodlere, Paris
Business Announcements.
MOTOR GARS !
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables : “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference —F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LAW OF
FINANCIAL SUCCESS.
mHE Book that tells how to succeed and make money
by following the Law. Everybody needs it, whether
rich or poor. Big firms buy in quantities. Agents
wanted. 200 per cent, profit. Make £5 a week easy.
Send Is. for Sample and Agency.
The Fiduciary Press, 1532 Tacoma Building, Chicago.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily.
We want reliable Agents and Can-
vassers to take urp sole District Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns, and other past selling
novelties," at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)— UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
Street, Sydney.
"N
m
am
m
N
R
-■f 1
% .2 1
The truth of the matter is THIS!
The reason that most Paints crack and peel off is
simply because they are not ELASTIC.
When the Oil, which is the LIFE ofa Paint, evaporates,
it leaves a CRUSTY SURFACE of pigment, and as the
changes in the atmosphere take place, expanding and
contracting the surface —OFF comes the paint.
Now, Arco Elastic Carbon Paint is. as its name im-
plies, ELASTIC. That is, it contracts and expands with
the climatic changes, and thus, under ALL circumstances
and conditions, it STICKS.
Under ordinary conditions Arco Elastic Carbon Paint
will last INDEFINITELY, but under SEVERE conditions it’s
Guaranteed for FIVE YEARS.
Manufactured in RED, BLUE, BROWN, GREEN
and BLACK, by
15he ATLANTIC REFINING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO, U.I.A.
Wholesale Agents :
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Launceston, Tasmania.
W. D. Moore and Co., and Harris, Scarfe and Co., Fremantle.
Thomas Brown and Sons, Townsville.
Walter Reid and Co., Rockhampton.
Head Office: THE ATLANTIC REFINING CO., Melbourne
CD
CD
FOR YOUR
The chance of
making extra profit
is a great tempta-
tion to the trades-
man. He makes
more profit on an
article called “just
as good” than he
does on the real
thing generally
because the ma-
terials or ingre-
dients are inferior,
or the essential part
of them lacking al-
together.
Don’t lead the
tradesman into
temptation by
accepting the imi-
PROTECTION.
tation brand of
“0.T.”
When ordering
“0.T.,” look for
“0.T.” and the
Red Chilli trade
mark on the bottle.
It is there for
your protection
from unreliable
and worthless
substitutes. You
know what you
want. Do not let
the dealer choose
for you.
And y remember
there is no other
beverage “just as
good” as “0.T.”
4
The Secret
of
the
Plum Razor
lies in the steel. It is the finest bit of steel that ever went
into a razor, and it has the true shaving edge 1 There isn’t
a razor anywhere that will shave you so easily and comfort-
ably and keep right on doing it like the PLUM.
Price, 10/6 Post Free.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Rozoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established
26 Years.
d
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’ * best drawings. Full Bulletin’size
Price, 21s.
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted—the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and. the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, Th. JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Constipation
is caused by your bowels becom-
ing weak. This may be due to
general debility or to dosing your-
self with powerful cathartics. The
cure of constipation is not in
dynamiting out the contents of
the bowels, but in strengthening
the walls of the intestines so that
they are able to do the work which
nature intended them to. There
is only one way of building up
the bowels. That way is Reuter’s
Little Pills. They are a bowel
tonic which induces the digestive
juices to flow freely thus enabling
the hundreds of little cells inside
your bowels to absorb the nutri-
tious part of your food and to
eject the waste matter.
Reuter’s Soap cures eczema.
HYPNOTISM
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic
A influence over others. You can
become proficient in curing: diseases
and bad habits of every nature. The
acquirement of these powers brings
happiness and health; develops will
power; and gives one the key to
personal and social success, and
suggests many opportunities for making money.
“The Scientific Wonder of the Age," 64 pages, pro-
fusely illustrated, instructs you how to master all the
secrets of Hypnotism, Magnetic Healing, Personal
Magnetism, and all Occult Sciences. It is sent Free.
Success Guaranteed.
WRITE TO-DAY.
d
Prof. M. LEE EDWARDS,
29 O’CONNEII STREET.
i SYDNEY.
rr
Medleater, alzo
3i laches lonjp.
with 4 months
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures tire sight and faring,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure} If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis. Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., =*9-=3t Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Bo* 466, G.P.0.)
Glorious Freetrade is turning the English
workman into the world’s blackleg. First it was
Belgium, then it was Germany, now it is Sweden
— “ the strikers attacked the English laborers on
Thursday, and there was a stiff fight. The police
declare that it is necessary for the Englishmen to
be sent back if order is to be maintained.” It
would be a shocking thing to have to admit that
J. Bull and K. Monkey have so much in common
that an alliance was a natural thing; but it is,
anyhow, an appalling fact that the English work-
man is being driven by Freetrade into the posi-
tion in Europe—the coolie position—that the Jap
workman occupies in America and Australia, and
that he is a falling coolie, while the Jap is arising
coolie.
The S. M. Herald babbled again last
week over the Australian capital:—
The L3'ne-Chapman party has so manipulated matters
as to secure delay year after year, and there is now little
prospect of the question being brought, up again in Parlia-
ment until the tariff is disposed of. Then the proroga-
tion will take place, and it is quite possible that the Bill
“to better determine the seat of government” may
remain a remanet of the session. There is no reason why
the question should not be settled at one sitting of Par-
liament. After seven years of prevarication and pro-
crastination, it would be too optimistic, however, to
expect Parliament to give up one sitting for the purpose.
If the matter is so easy, the Herald might kindly
explain how it is to be done. The Australian
Parliament selected a capital site which fulfilled
all the terms of the Constitution, and it has
waited three years for a cantankerous little ass
of a State Premier at Sydney to surrender the
site. The dreadful Herald has encouraged that
cantankerous little ass to refuse the surrender and
to maintain the deadlock. Now in what way can
the Australian Parliament “settle the question
at one sitting,” unless by ordering the Federal
troops to concentrate round Dalgety and take
possession of the area selected for a Federal capi-
tal —which, perhaps, is as good a thing as it could
do, though it is certainly not what the Herald
means ? Will the Herald publish the draft of
the Act which could be passed by the Australian
Parliament at one sitting, and which would clear
up the whole matter ? At present its language is
as vague as the cry of a Yarra-bank orator.
From an old Indian officer
That’s a funny yarn The Bulletin (10/10/’07) quoted
from Lloyd’s about Banerji, the Bengali agitator. Asa
matter of fact the Indian Sepov knows quite well what
his European officer really is, and he doesn’t care. What
is a pukka sahib, anyhow? “Caste” is a Portuguese
W'ord. The “ twice-born ” Hindus, as they call themselves,
area very small minority, confined to the Brahman and
Rajput clans. The vast majority of the Indian native
army consists of Muhamadans and Sikhs, who universally
repudiate any idea of ancestral superiority. It is quite
well known that the European is an utterly unclean
Serson, according to even the most liberal standard.
ow, if Lloyd’s military expert wants a couple of real
“hurra sahibs” after his own heart, let him take the
Maharajas of Gwaliar and Mori, the two top-notch
Mahratta swells of India. They’re both “ shepherds ” by
caste, nearly the lowest, and the grandfather of the
Gwaliar swell used to carry the slippers of Baji Rao, who
was Peishwa of Puna 100 years ago. Jeswant Rao, the
ancestor of the Mori, or rather Indor, swell, was in 1820
chief of a gang of Pindari robbers, with nothing to his
name but an old chestnut mare, a long spear, a sword, a
tent, and a dancing girl, from whom the present Holkar
Maharaja of Indor is descended. Is it not all written
in Metcalf’s “Report on Central India,” that he that
runs may read ? Verily someone must have been pulling
the leg of Lloyd’s military expert with a vengeance.
Captain George Alfred Moore, who
pegged out his permanent claim in Papua
list month, was formerly in business on
Melbourne Stock Exchange, and went to the
S’African war as a lieutenant in the First
Bushmen’s Contingent. He assisted at several
scraps, and was one of the “relief” force that
sauntered up to Mafeking and told Barnum
Powell to ring off the “ heroic defence ” farce, and
bog in at something useful. Moore was invalided
home in 1901, but later returned to Africa and got
a commission in the Imperial army. After the
war he was “specially mentioned” by the
Imperial Government for good work as Commis-
sioner of Claims, and by the Orange River
Government for reporting on the ports of entry
for Basutoland. Early last year the Common-
wealth sent him as a patrol officer to Papua,
where he went under to an attack of fever and
dysentery.
Australia’s old friend, the beautifully-
tailored and hair-oiled Charles Robert. Wynn-
Carrington, Earl and Baron and other trifles, has
been raving and boiling over in England because
of a proposal that eminent men should be
appointed to the Lords as life peers. The idea of
peers being appointed for merit has shocked
Charles Bob. His family ne ver troubled much about
merit. His first visible ancestor, Bobby Smith,
bought a cheap Irish peerage from Pitt in 1796.
He got a British peerage in 1797. In 1839 his son
ceased to be Smith of Carrington, and became
Carrington of Carrington. In 1895 the present
gentleman began to call himself Wvnn-Carrington
of Carrington. Thus the family rose. To ask
this superb person, who gave up being Smith so
very long ago, to sit in the Lords with some person
of merit who is still Smith would be too terrible.
Luke Brennan, 10 Sandymount Green,
Dublin, inquires as to the address of Patrick
Brennan, who sends hint The Bulletin and The
Lone Hand from Australia.


The Royal Bank of Australia Limited
J Head Office : MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
THIRTY-NINTH REPORT
Presented, to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 30th October, 1907.
The pleasure in submitting to Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts
'.rth.“»"*“ - «».« 8 9
“ hlohlt i7pTrD^eXrltTprp.^ S .nn»„, .. *7.000 5 0
To transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £80,000) .. .. 4’941 6 9
and to carry forward the balance ’
£16,941 6 9
i v,o aVilp to nlace before Shareholders another progressive Balance Sheet; the business
ha, .»» -*« »«»•-» °i *>•"» <•» “><*>-
nas expanaeu consmerauij . , ful j utilised in extending the Bank’s operations.
niell ln Shareholders who their active interest in the Bank by introducing business,
the Directors* would hke to pohft out that every Shareholder has it in his power to assist the Bank to some extent,
and they trust'to'have the Cordial co-operation business in the
balance sheet
OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
For the Half-Year Ending 30th September, 1907.
Dr. CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600,000 Shares of £4
each
Capital Subscribed
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund..
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Government Deposits .. Nil
Other Deposits—Rebate
and Interest Accrued
Not Bearing- Interest £276,674 15
Bearing Interest .. 961,787 0
Balances due to Other Banks
£291,941 6
12,043 0
62,204 13
3
8
1,237,461 15 11
234 9 2
£1,603,885 5 2
Contingent Liabilities as per Contra 399,438 0 0
£2,003,323 5 2
ASSETS. Or.
By Coin, Bullion, and Cash
at Bankers .. .. £212,188 15 6
Money at Call and Short
Notice ~ .. .. 65,000 0 0
Notes and Bills of other
Banks .. .. 717 5 7
Balances due from other
Banks .. .. .. 14,159 9 9'
Bills and Remittances in
transit, and payable in
London .. .. .. 107,165 9 0
Government, Municipal,
and other Public
Stocks, Debentures and
Funds .. .. .. 112,900 0 0
Stamps 550 19 5
£512,681 19 3
Real Estate, consisting' of—
Bank Premises .. v -.,.. .. 55,000 0 0
Other Real Estate at Cost to Bank 9,102 3 7
- Bills Discounted and other Advaiibes,
exclusive of Provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts .. .. .. .. 1,025,086 12 4
Bank Furniture, Fittings, Stationery, etc. 2,014 10 0
£1,603,886 6 2
Liabilities and Securities of Customers
and others in respect of Contingent
Liabilities as per contra .. .. 399,438 0 0
£2,003,323 5 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent, and other charges
Income tax
Balance
.. £6,100 7 8
292 1 6
.. 16,941 6 9
£23,333 16 11
.. £16,070 8 2
By Balance at 28th March, 1907
Less dividend declared 26th
April, 1907 £5,687 10 0
Transfer to reserve fund .. 7,500 0 0
Bonus to staff .. .. 561 0 0
13,748 10 0
Balance carried down .. .. .. 2,321 18 2
Profits for the half-year after deducting
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts .. .. .. 21,011 17 9
£23,333 15 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
.. £75,000 0 0
£75,000 0 0
By Balance at 28th March, 1907 .. .. £67,500 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss account,
26th April, 1907 .. .. .. .. 7,500 0 0
£75,000 0 0
THOMAS KIDD, P.S.A.A. (Eng.),
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.1.A.V.,
Auditors.
Australia’s Exquisite Production.
BOOMERANG''
PURE GRAPE BRANDY
Has secured
PRIZE MEDALS
(in competition with the most
famous French Brandies) at
Paris 1900, Bordeaux 1895,
Antwerp 1894, Brussels 1897,
Amsterdam 1895-
THE LANCET says:
"It is a sound, honest Brandy, of
a FRAGRANCE, PURITY and
QUALITY SECOND TO NONE."
It is supplied
under Royal Warrant
to
His Majesty the King
1
V\
m
S’
\
r>
r
o
ENTERTAINS EVERYBODY EVERYWHERE !
Do not accept ANY TALKING MACHINE that may be offered you, but compare one make with another
both for MUSICAL QUALITIES and MECHANICAL CONSTRUCTION.
IF THU IS DONE CAREFULLY YOUR. CHOICE
CANNOT FAIL TO BE A
a
COLUMBIA CRAPH-o-phone,
as on these points it easily
EXCELS ALL OTHERS.
COLUMBIA GRAPH-o-phones are made in both cylinder and
disc styles. Catalogues free on application.
Write for one TO-DAY.
@3
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. GEN’L, 2558 Clarence Street, Sydney.
London, New York, Paris, Berlin, St. Petersburg, Milan, etc.
HIGH-CLASS
CLOTHING
To
Measure
and
Ready-
Made.
ghj
Please order your
Summer Suit now.
Pay us a visit be-
fore the pattern
you want is sold out.
Before tbe big; rusb
for tbe Cup com-
mences.
SAC SUIT
TO MEASURE,
50i- ,
■ ♦
WE STOCK
Men’s and Boys* Clothing and
Mercery of the Best Kind
at the Lowest Price.
Boots and Shoes, Ladies* and
Gent.’s. of Keith, Selz, Ford,
and Australian MaKe.
Woodrow’s, Christy’s, Knox
and Australian Hats
and Caps.
LINOLEUMS, CARPETS,
FURNISHINGS..
Lincoln, Stuart Co.,
244 to 254 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE.
GOOD BUTTER AND RICH CREAM
SERRADELLA
THE MILK PRODUCING
. . FODDER . .
m
m
A Crop a t i
Wit i
S;rradella compared
. Ordinary Crop.
THE SECRET OF THE DANISH
DAIRY FARMERS.
Enriches Poor Scil
GROWS WELL
ANYWHERE.
Nature’s Own
Fertiiiser
RESISTS DROUGHT
Unaffected by Floods
Sample Packet 2/6
POSTED ANYWHERE
ď
JSerrartelia Roots parrying
Fertilising Germs.
'T'HK most important discovery of recent times is the process by which the Nitrogen in the atmosphere is converted into
-*• the best and cheapest of all «oil fertilisers. The air we breathe cons sts of about one part of
< )xygen to four parts of Nitrogen, and it has been the elusive quest of scientists for many years to find a cheap and certain
way of gathering the Nitrogen from the air and applying it to’the soil. This has now been done and a germ preparation
called “ Nitro Culture ”is beiner sold at very high prices for impregnating various kinds of leguminous seeds. Meanwhile
lhe still more valuable and wonderful discovery has been made that certain plants perform the same work,
and are in fact Nature’s active fertilisers. While the scientists were slowly evolving their theory, Nature
carried on the process, and Serradella is the best of all these nitrogenous fertilisers for the Dairy Farmer
and Cattle Raiser. It is estimated that every acre of Serradella imparts 1831bs. of Nitrogen to the soil, making
p or and worn-out land capable of growing heavy crops of wheat, oats or other cereals. In some places it
has been found that one crop of Serradella provides sufficient fertiliser for three crops of cereals. This is good new»
for the farmer, but better remains to be told. Serradella is the ideal fodder for Dairy Cattle.
It is practically the only fodder used in Denmark and throughout Germany, as it has been found to greatly enrich
the cream and to improve the flavor of the butter. This seems to be the secret of the
success of the Danish butter in London and elsewhere. Serradella can be given to the cattle as green fodder
or made into hay or ensilage. The animals enjoy it. Its nutritive value is equal to red clover and it yields a much heavier
r-rop. It is not a perennial, and it cannot become a pest. It grows rapidly and soon covers the ground with a dense mass of
herbage. It will yield two generous cuttings in the season and serves as an excellent pasture for the .jresjfc of the year.
Now is the time to plant ic for a summer crop. It may also be grown in Autumn. Sample packet of
this season’s seed, guaranteed, sufficient for a trial plot, 2s. 6'1., carriage paid, w’*h full directions for cultivation.
Th© UNION flflfg. <& Agency Co., 299 Elizabeth Street* .Melbourne.


With
Warm
Water
and
*
W
m
V^fcatMcS
mtuxUUWUUWU.
(}*V^
l£k
cce
(JflClttj
SOAP
A
I
And weekly dressings of
Cuticura, purest and sweet-
est of emollients, at once
stop falling hair, remove
crusts, scales, and dandruff,
destroy hair pa rasites, soothe
irritated, itching surfaces,
stimulate the hair follicles,
loosen the scalp skin, supply
the roots with energy and
nourishment, and make the
hair grow upon a sweet,
wholesome, healthy scalp,
when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 27
u? a n te £ house £ q /, ; Paris. 5 Hue de la Falx: Austral
i'a- H ; Towns* Co.. Sydney: India BK. Paul. Cal-
V™ 5 Co.: Japan. Maruya.
CtO; Tokio. South Africa. Lennon. Ltd., Cape Town.
SEP** U. S. A.. Potter Drug & Chem- Corp., Solo
Drops., Boston. WPost-free. Cuticura Booklet,
Patent Goloshed
Shoe for the Races.
đ
With the new Wurtemburg Heel and Ribbon Ties,
this Patent Goloshed Shoe is certain to be first
favorite this summer for Races and Garden FeStes. It
is a very graceful shoe, light and easy to the foot, and
is made with the greatest skill in every part. It may
be had also in Tan and Champagne, if you prefer
these colors. We have a similar shoe, only in Glac6
Kid instead of Patent, from a Guinea up.
This
Man’s Stylish
Button Boot
for
14/6
d
At this price it can be had in either Patent
Leather, in Tan or Black, Glac6 Kid, or in Willow
Calf. State which you prefer in ordering.
Price, 14-/6. Posted in Victoria, 1/- extra ;to other
States, 1/8.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne,
303 Chapel Street, Prahran,
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
115,000
The Wayback iSeries*
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is
T
REX
THE.
HOME
X
THE
WARRNAMBOOL
TO MELBOURNE
(DUNLOP)
ROAD RAGE
WON ON
“FLUE”
TYRES
AT this important con-
test the machines of _____
the 237 competitors who started repre-
sented several makes of Tyres, but the
RACE WAS WON ON “ FLiTE ” TYRES.
M. B. Dobie, the successful contestant,
covered the 165 miles in 7 hours 45 minutes
37 seconds, thus only being 2 minutes over
J. Arnst’s world’s record. The severe
weather conditions of the race, and the
speed attained by the winner speak elo-
quently for the durable, reliable, sterling
qualities of these famous Tyres.
Ask your dealer for the “FLITE” (the
guaranteed-for-12-months Tyre), or the
“DADDY" (the guaranteed-for-6-months
Tyre).
Manufactured at the Footscray Works of
BARNET GLASS (S b CO.
Back to the Old Address : 85 Clarence Street,
Sydney. 226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne;
10 McHenry Street, Adelaide.
Agents at Hobart, Perth, and Brisbane.
MT p
EfY
M
I
n 1 P
SJS
Yq T
MEMORY
MtaNS
MONET-
ď
The Successful Men in
every Business are
those who have
trained their Memory*
No single cause has con-
tributed more to the success
of thousands of business and
professional men and women
all the world over than
THE
Pelman System
... OF ...
Memory Training
Taught in Five Easy
Postal Lessons.
Mr. W. T. Stead says:—“J consider Pelman
a benefactor of the human race.”
Write to-day for free book “Memory
and Success.” Read what the Pelman
System has done for others ; let it do
the samefor you. Address The Secretary,
Pelman School of Memory, 3 Stock
Exchange Building, Melbourne.
Disc
H arrow
Buyers
(236)
should send
to us AT
ONCE for
details of
A
SPECIAL
OFFER
we are making to clear stocks
of odd sizes of Standard
Makes of Brand New Disc
Harrows
The particulars of this offer
include:—
(a) VERY LOW PRICES.
(b) RIDICULOUSLY EASY
TER,vIS.
(c) FREE TRANSPORT
TRUCK.
This offer applies to only
113 Harrows, and is so re-
markably favorable that only
those who order quickly will
be able to secure one.
Address your letter to De-
partment B of our Branch
House In the State In which
you live.
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER COMPANY OF
AMERICA
(INCORPORATED.)
Roma Street, Brisbane; 37
Broadway, Syd ne y ; 54 5
Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Bank Street, Adelaide; and
75 York Street, Launceston.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
Cl OC INSURANCE company
rirmC limited,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
&
C*
GUARANTY
&
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
%
m
FREESAMPLE
Congo is “Never-Leak”
Grade Ready Roofing.
High
It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured bj BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
& SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS & Co., Brisbane.
P.H.L, Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4647.
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from "The
Bulletin** Office
This summer will see a great increase in the
number of motor boats on Port Jackson (N.S.W.). No
less than 18 new ones are under construction at time of
writing, and of these a good proportion are installing
Sydney-made engines. An interesting item is that two
sister boats, exactly alike in all respects, have just been
built, and one is fitted with a 4-6 h.p. Invincible, and the
other with the same powered Fairbanks. Sydney seems
to have something like a monopoly of the motor boat in-
dustry of Australia, and quite a number of craft being
constructed round Port Jackson are for other States.
One for Tasmania, to be fitted with a 40 h.p. Invincible
engine, will travel to the Isle of Apples on its own keel,
* * * *
N.S.W. Motor Boat Club is now under the
control of secretary J. B. Holdsworth, who has a boat or
two of his ow'n, and is an enthusiast of the deepest dye.
He is at present working hard to inaugurate a real
Australasian Championship, and is in correspondence
with all the States and Maoriland. Auckland people are
enthusiastic over the idea, and cheerfully offer to build a
boat to wipe the roof of the sea with anything Sydney
cares to send across. Although nothing definite has been
settled, the chances are that by the end of the summer
the championship of the Australian seas will have been
decided in a contest in which the six States and the
Dominion will all be represented. The idea is a good one,
and will arouse tremendous interest in the sport, which
was beginning to flag somewhat owing to the suspension
of the duel between the Invincible and the Fairbanks.
• * * *
“Hamer”: I have been watching the way
Woolloomooloo Bill fights. I happened upon the scene of
conflict at about half time, but operations had not
commenced. Billo was telling Heaven all about it, and
Chiller was doing much the same thing. Incidentally he
was making nasty remarks about Billo. This so goaded
Billo that be flung off his coat and asked Chiller to put
up his hands. Then he put on his coat again with an
air of a man who had done his duty manfully. Chiller
then remarked in a cutting voice that he would fight him
with one hand tied, and they both flung off their coats.
Then they talked a little more, and mentioned some
family history. Billo at this stage stuck his face close to
Chiller’s waistcoat, and asked him to hit. Chiller an-
nounced that he w\as willing, but that if he did hit he
would put his hand through him. Thereupon Billo again
flung his coat on and turned to go, making nasty remarks.
Then Chiller pursued him, and stuck his head close to
Billo, and appealed to that gentleman to hit if he wanted
a fight. Billo said he wouldn’t soil his hands ; then Chiller
also flung on his coat and made remarks about “cock-
tails.” That would have probably restarted the argu-
ment but for the timely arrival of a policeman. As
Chiller departed he told his friends what he would have
done to Billo, and Billo gave his friends similar informa-
tion. And I really think if Billo Jiad struck Chiller, and
Chiller at the same instant had struck Biilo, they might
have both been hit more or less.
*****
“Bloggs” : Inspired considerably by tlie gor-
geous hunting scenes in “ A Warning to Women,” “ The
Southern Cross,” etc., I betook me Parramatta-wards,
t’other afternoon, to watch one of the local hunts, the
which are based, I understand, on similar disturbances
in the Cold Land. A farmer friend in the locality, over
whose property the chase was to rage, said : “ Come
across to this rise, and in about ten minutes
you’ll see the lunatics arriving.” Suddenly, as we
gazed, the country-side became alive with garishly-
spotted dogs. They trailed along in an endless
line, emitting the while a loud sustained yell or
bleat. Close to the hindmost dog galloped one w'ho
w r ore a red coat and an inadequate velvet cap.
The dog crawled swiftly under a three-rail fence. Not
so the rider. He steered his mount at the obstacle, which
the animal shattered forthwith to atoms, either with
its knees or head—l was unable to say which. The
rider crawled earnestly back into the saddle from the
neighborhood of his steed’s left ear, while my farming
friend said bitterly, “Blast him. He shall pay for that
fence,” and various other things. More horsemen now
appeared, and, with infinite light-heartedness, did fur-
ther damage to the fence, which began to look as mournful
and dejected as a bald hair-brush. “ This home-paddock
fence’ll shake a few of the blighters up,” observed the
agriculturist, unpleasantly. “New she is, and 4ft. 2in.
of solid timber.” His forecast proved correct. The first
to bite the dust was an aged man on a thin sulphur-hued
steed, resembling a stunted giraffe gone “fanti.” This
latter creature hit the obstacle while going at the rate of
about 60 miles an hour, and flung its veteran ownpr far
ahead ; after w'hich it rolled over three times, and lay
motionless and unconscious upon the oldster’s chest.
The first-sighted sportsman in the red coat came rapidly
at the fence, fell with his horse hurriedly over it,
mounted again with haste and much nonchalance, and
harked forward in the wake of the dogs, as though
nothing had occurred. These animals stopped near my
friend and me, having lost sight or smell, apparently, of
whatever they were pursuing. Such of the huntsmen as
were neither dead nor crippled did likewise, and ex-
changed whisky, cigarettes, and lies with each other
for about 20 minutes. The spotted dogs w'ere
then induced some distance away; their awful
cry broke forth again; and they departed madly
tow'ards the horizon once more. It was explained to me
that a herring fried in assafostida, and wrapped in a draft
copy of a Deform oration, had been trailed from this
point some time beforehand as a lure—the herring thus
prepared and packed being a thing the animals hold in
high esteem. “ Why do they do it ?” I demanded help-
lessly of my friend, as the last of the riders crashed to
earth over some palings in the middle distance. “ God
knows 1” he said, moodily, and went down to hold an
autopsy on his fence.
MOTOR-MANIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See the crazy, glorious, glad man
In the car ;
See the motor-scorching madman
Tear afar ;
How the roosters fly before him,
How the mothers pale implore him
And the lunatics adore him
In his car I
How his hapless victims cumber
Every path ;
He had slain them without number,
In his wrath ;
Every morn a fresh oblation
Must be offered by the nation,
Lest a wholesale devastation
Be his path.
How he wrecks the tiny village,
In his glee 1
Like a Vandal out for pillage
Or for spree;
In his furious motor-rabies
How he massacres the babies,
How he decimates the gabies
In his glee 1
With a petrol odor awful
Doth he fly ;
On a hellish quest unlawful
Doth he ply ;
And the country louts in wonder
Watch him cut themselves in sunder,
Or they faintly crawl from under,
Ere they die.
Like a man-devouring Satan,
Bent on Sin,
In his quaint sulphureous phaeton
See him spin ;
But, as nought on earth can bind him,
Ye shall slay him where ye find him,
So he leave no trace behind him
Of his Sin.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


The Famous
DOLLOND. .
Binoculars.
Better than ANY Con-
tinental production in
EVERY respect—yet
cheaper. They have
patented improvements
which make them pasier
to clean without any
risk of disturbing the
adjustments. They are
more dust and damp-
proof . than any other
Prism Binoculars, and
have great rigidity.
They give a brilliant
field- of view, and their
definition is remarkably
well defined.
Dollond’s Prismatic Binoculars,
£7 to £B.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET.
Also
The Dollond Official Service Binocular,
AS SUPPLIED TO THE WAK OFFICE,
£3, POST FREE.
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Agents for Dollond’s. Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
đ
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is
Packet of Ten lOd
GET THESE
NEW RECORDS
FOR YOUR PHONOGRAPH.
Keep in touch with the new songs and music, and
enjoy the old successes. ....
Get your nearest dealer to play them over for you
and take home the ones you like. Then you will
hear your Phonograph at its best. . .
ON SALE AT ALL DEALERS NOW.
Is. 6d. Each.
American Selections for September
9626
9627
9628
9629
9630
9631
9632
9633
9634
9635
9636
9637
Coinin’ Thro’ the Rye—Humoresque (Bellstedt)
Edison Concert Band
Jack and Jill (Cohan) Ada Jones
When the Blue Birds Nest Again, Sweet Nellie
Gray ( Helf ) Manuel Romain
Hungarian Dance,. No. 2 ( Brahms)
Edieon Hungarian Orchestra
Theodore (Bryan) Edward M. Favor
Many’s the time (Bose and Fischer)
Collins & Harlan
When Someone Really Cares (Cahill)
Irving Gillette
To Your Health (Gesundheit) Waltz (Helf)
Edison Military Band
I’d Rather Two-Step than Waltz, Bill (Burt)
Billy Murray
An Amateur Minstrel Rehearsal (Original)
Edison Vaudeville Co.
J ist Because I Loved You So (Harris)
Harry Anthony
Chopin’s Nocturne, No. 2 (Chopin)
Hans Ivronold
9638
9639
9640
9641
9642
9643
9644
9645
9646
9647
9648
9649
I Think I Oughtn’t Ought To Any More
{Bryan) Edward Meeker
Tell Mother I’ll Be There ( Fillmore )
Edison Mixed Quartette
Your Lips, Your Eyes, Your Golden Hair
(Sturges) Reinald Werrenrath
Magpie and the Parrot ( Bendix )
Edison Symphony Orchestra
Brother Noah Gave Out Checks for Bain
( Lonybrake ) Arthur Collins
Herman and Minnie ( Original)
Ada Jones & Len Spencer
A Little Suit of Blue (Chattaivay)
Byron G. Harlan
Red Wing Medley ( Original ) Albert Benzler
Everloving Spoony Sam ( Fischer) Bob Roberts
Flanagan at the Barber’s (Original)
Steve Porter
Blue Jay and the Thrush ( Fulton)
Harlan & Belmont
The 74th Regiment March (Losey)
Edison Military Band
British Selections for August.
13612 Overture, The French Cavalier {Hermann)
National Military Band
13613 The Happy Convict (Wincott)
Tom Woottwell
13611 Once {Hervey) Gwilym Richards
13615 What’s in a Name {Tarling) Fred Owen
13616 In the Valleys of Switzerland
{H. E. Darewski, Jr.) Miss Yolande Noble
13617 Just Came Up for the Day {Hyde)
, i Jack Lorimer
13618 Man and Wife Should Always Pull Together
( Murphy and Lipton) Miss Florrie Forde
13619 Poor Old England (Castling and Godfrey)
Billy Williams
13620 The Royal Artillery (Le Brunn)
Miss Vesta Tilley
13621 March, The Gladiator’s Farewell
( Blankenburg ) National Military Band
13622 The Merry Widow Waltz ( Lebar )
National Military Band
If you have not had the complete lists of records let us send them to you.
A request on a post card will bring them by return mail.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH GO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
ORDER BY MAIL.
Country Buyers are accorded the same
liberal treatment town buyers receive.
Money back if you are dissatisfied.
'awscviZ
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Drop us a post card, and we will send
an Illustrated Catalogue, and promptly
reply to any enquiries you may make*
Pearl Set 9ct. Gold, Double Scroll Bangle, £3.
18ct. Gold Carved
Ring-, J-Hoop, Set Fine
Amethysts, £2 15s.
Hoop Ring, set fine
quality Green Peri-
dots, £2 ss.
9ct. Gold Scroll Bangle, £1 ss.
9cfc. Gold Hall-marked
Medal, 10s 6d.
Pearl Set 9et. Gold Brooch, 22s 6d,
Pearl and Olivine Set 15ct. Gold
Brooch, £4 4s.
Pearl and Enamel
9ct. Gold Pendant,
£1 10s.
% M /
N
STEWART DAWSON&C
W
The “ MODEL” Watch, Steel
Case, Lever Movement, Thin,
Flat Style. Goes accurately,
and will be found a reliable
Pearl and Enamel Dot.
Gold Pendant, £llos.
Pearl and Turquoise Set, 15ct. Gold
Brooch, £2.
mtml
Opal Set, 15ct. Gold Brooch, £ll7s 6d.
Pearl and Turquoise Set,
9ct. Gold Pendant, £3 15s.
Chased and Plain Cable Bangle, in case, 9ct. Gold, £2 10s.
article in every
way. Price
£1 Is.
Amethyst and 9ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, £3 15s
Smaller Stones, 555.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Set
Brooch, 22s 6d.
Silver-Mounted Shaving Paper
Pad, 10s 6d.
m
m
H
Get yours in good time. Xmas Pudding Set,
in Solid Silver, 3s ; larger size, 4s 6d.
PEGGY BAGS,
as sketch, with Safety Purse, 8s 6d ;
other styles, 5s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
17s 6d, 21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
i• ■ > i■’ : \ ; v ' : ■ ‘ : . laffilgw&ffßßsi u • | : m w :
■
8533&
mrnm
Plain Solid Silver Manicure Set, in Morocco Case, £2 7s 6d.
Cut-Glass and Silver Tobacco


Just because
you’re a man
don’t think
you have got
to be bald.
Your hair
d
grows out of your scalp, then
nourish your scalp and your hair
will grow.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
builds up, and energizes thin,
dry, tight scalps. It gives them
strength so that they can supply
vigor and life to the hair roots,
which in turn will grow thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry’s Tri-coph-erous.
Reuter’s Soap is tfood lor shaving
SULPHUR
BITTERS
THE BEST AND
Purest Medicine
EVER MADE.
Don’t be without a bottle. Tou
will not regret it. Try it to-day.
What makes you tremble so?
Your Nerves are all unstrung, and
NEED a gentle, soothing TONIC
to assist nature to repair the damage
which your excesses have caused..
Sulphur Bitters
IS NOT A
CHEAP
RUM OR
WHISKY
DRINK
to be taken by the glass like other
preparations which stimulate only to
DESTROY. If you have FAILED
to receive any benefit from other
medicines or doctors, do not despair.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
In all cases of stubborn, deep seated
diseases, Sulphur Bitters is the best
medicine to use. Don’t wait until
to-morrow, try a bottle to-day.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at x/t 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
ď
đ
d
Reader, why not be able to nse the
most mysterious and powerful force of
nature ? By my method you can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, ■with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
(Hypnotism, Which fully explains
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
'hundreds of beautiful and
artistic engravings* and -is the_ most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to.cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It Is a chance of
.a life-time. Address —
ď
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN,
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Weakness Cannot Win
in the battle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
3P
T
%
&
\W
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves—strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system —not enough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments for men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
METH It. CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS
*///
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo** welcome relief
in a very short time.
V <S''
CP
S&'
fIINTMENT
IMMENSE SUCCESS.
FRMTOIDS
THE NEW CURE FOR
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION & CONSTIPATION.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their marvellous curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take. Leading Chemists and Store-
keepers are now stocking them. Retail price, 1/6. Ask for them locally, and so encourage
business in your own district. If not obtainable, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE :
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Price 6d.
Posted Bd,


Headache, Indigestion and
Constipation.
*
AN IMPORTANT DISCOVERY.
It will interest sufferers to know
that a valuable medicine, called Froo-
toids, has been discovered, which is
now completely curing each of tile
above-named complaints. Frootoids
are elegant in appearance, and plea-
sant to take, and, what is of the ut-
most importance, are thoroughly reli-
able in affording quick relief. You
do not require to go on takiEg them
for a prolonged period, as is necessary
with some medicines, which even then
are mostly disappointing; you simply
take a dose of Frootoids when ill and
repeat the dose if necessary, but gene-
rally one dose is quite effective,
j Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so
far that they not only act as an ape-
rient, but do remove from the blood,
tissues, and internal organs all the
waste poisonous matter that is clog-
ging them and choking the channels
that lead to and from them. The bene-
ficial effects of Frootoids are evident
at once by the disappearance of head-
ache, the head becoming clear, and a
bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly,
and by the food being properly di-
gested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when
Congestion of the Brain or Apoplexy
is present or threatening. They have
been tested, and have been proved to
afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any
good at all. It is of the utmost impor-
tance that this should be borne in
mind, for in such cases to take an or-
dinary aperient is to waste time and
permit of a serious illness becoming
fatal.
Frootoids act splendid./ on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
antibilious pills make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill
by antibilious pills that could have
been cured at once by Frootoids.
People should not allow themselves to
be duped into contracting a medicine-
taking habit by being persuaded to
take daily doses with each meal of so-
called indigestion cures that do NOT
cure. Frootoids have been subjected
to extensive tests, and have in every
case proved successful in completely
curing the complaints named.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, take a
dose of Frootoids, instead of an or-
dinary aperient; by so doing, the pa-
tient will require doses only at longer
intervals, and will so become quite
independent of the necessity of taking
any aperient medicine.
Frootoids are only now being placed
on the Australian market, consequently
you may at present have a difficulty
in getting them from your local che-
mist or storekeeper; but ask for them,
and if you cannot get them at once,
send stamps or postal note for price,
1/6, to W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Gee-
long, and a bottle of them will be im-
mediately forwarded to you post free.
Chemists, storekeepers, and whole-
salers can now obtain wholesale sup-
plies from W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
N.S.W. Branch Office:
No. 5, First Floor, Greer's Chambers,
522 George Street, Sydney.
THE BALLET GIRL
đ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Liett of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 9/3, G.P.O.m SYDNEY .
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS MONET TO LEND City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand DC? - - AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winehcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The following diagram Post Card illustrating the size and
shape of Australia and the number of its population and neigh-
bours, also the diagram and short Australian Essay on Note Paper.
Sold at Cole’s Book Arcades, Bourke and Collins Streets, Melbourne;
333 and 346 George Street, Sydney; and 67 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
••• * »
> * • * • • • *
The
White
Australia
Post
Card.
d
ď
China proper contains more than
400 millions of people.
The two Countries combined havo only the same area as Australia.
Each dot In these, diagrams represents
Million
of
PeopW.
Java contains
30 millions.
Jm
cX
Hk
Comparative,
•ize of England
Australia-Its Size, its Neighbours, and its Future
The Island'Continont of Australia, vast and almost empty, contains only
•bout 4 millions of Inhabitants, while it is approximately 58 times the size of
England. 100 times the size of Ireland. Scotland or Tasmania, 250 times the
size of Holland or Belgium. or 400 times the size of Wales or Palestine. A
White Australia will be Impossible—firstly, because coloured people will help
to inhabit its tropical part; and secondly, because the tropical heat wilt
darken the skin of the white settlers and their descendants —Friend reflect.
Australia a Grand Country.
I think that Australia for its size is, all-round, the best country in the world.
Its climate is pleasant and health-giving. It has no desolating blizzards, no
frost-bites, and few sun-strokes. In edible produce, for both size and quality it
stands very high, if not the highest. I have been in many lands, but never saw a
country supply such a variety of products as Australia does —potatoes, onions, cabbages,
carrots, peas, beans, and scores of other vegetables in abundance. In fruits it
produces apples, pears, plums, peaches, oranges, grapes, and all the smaller
fruits in great abundance and of good flavour. Northern Australia also produces
all the tropical fruits in abundance wherever cultivated. In corn Australia pro-
duces superior wheat, oats, barley, maize, and all other kinds in abundance,
especially when scientifically irrigated. As a milk, butter, and meat country, it is
one of the best in the world. It is the largest and best wool-producing country
in the world. It contains the largest area in the world especially suitable for
growing cotton, the most extensively-used clothing material. Flowers grow
luxuriantly and beautifully whenever cultivated and watered. A few years ago,
when writing on the “ White Australia ’’ question, I stated that with high culture,
water conservation and scientific irrigation, Australia was capable of supporting
400 millions of inhabitants. A high literary authority, in reviewing the book,
remarked that this seemed like “ a gross exaggeration ” ; but probably he had
not thought so much on the subject as I had.
I will here concisely state the principal reasons for my opinion. The great
want of Australia, to make it amazingly fruitful, is the complete conservation of
water and its scientific application to the soil. Water, warmth, and soil will
grow anything in Australia, if rationally managed. Australia has abundance of
water now running to waste. On thousands of house-roofs water enough is
caught for the domestic use of the respective families. Over large areas of the
country there are 30 inches of rainfall, and the average rainfall over vast areas is
24 inches, and could be made much greater by cultivation. Four-fifths of this
water now runs to waste. Again, surface-parched Australia has vast areas of
underground water which only require to be tapped and brought to the surface,
to irrigate and fertilize the soil.
Australia is also a country where timber grows well and fast, if planted in
trenched ground and slightly irrigated. Hundreds of straight trees can be
grown upon an acre of land if they are first planted thickly and some gradually
thinned out. Many kinds of trees will grow upon very poor soil if they are pro-
perly planted and irrigated, as the bulk of their sustenance is derived from the
air. One more remark about trees and their possibilities as food providers. Wher-
ever any kind of tree will grow some kind of fruit tree will grow. There are hun-
dreds of millions of gum trees growing in Australia. Where every one of these
trees is, some kind of fruit tree would grow, if properly planted and looked after.
Again, to utilize Australia to its full extent the whole world should be sought
through for the best plants and trees of every kind, and only the very best grown,
and those in situations and soil best adapted for them.
One argument used against Australia is that much of its surface is sandy ; but
experiments and developments in various countries show that the planting of
marram grass, lupins, and other plants ties even the drifting sand together and
gradually, through their decay, turns the sandy wastes into fertile soil. Besides,
science can, in many other ways, utilize the elements in the air to enrich the soil.
For further remarks on this subject I beg to refer the reader to the coming
book:— 4 * Australia Able to Support 400 Millions.”
E. W. COLE.
đ
A
natural
preparation.
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice
/ is not a concoction of arti-
ficially made chemical crystals.
Montserrat
is the pure juice of the famous West
\ Indian Lime Fruit, specially
\ cultivated for that purpose in
\ the Island of Montserrat.
'\The Lancet counsels the
'public to drink
‘Montserrat*
% Sold by all
, Chemists, ■
'Grocers,
\ etc. ■
Palli
For Household Use. —To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
be used anywhere. Non-Inflammable fuel
without noxious fumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dallinette
(A Smaller “Dalll.”)
For light work and travelling only.
For general household work use the “Dalli.”
Having a larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked by:
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
WORDS and MUSIC
FOR
2/6
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
which for various reasons are denied the average'
music and song lo'ver. It may be that your local music-i
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may,
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellers
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem'
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and'
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of,
one book. In it are to be found songs old and,
new to suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous —without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,'
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &e.J
including such world-famous favorites as “ Annie
Laurie," “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”,
“Robin Adair,” “ Killarney,” “ Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “ Men of Harlech,” “ Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ My Bible Leads to Glory,” “Bonnie Earl of Murray,”,
“ Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
a Nun,” “ Highland Mary," “ Kitty of Oolerainq,” “ Prayer
During Battle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,
such as “Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. 10d,); if P.N.
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchange. Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere. Address—
THE PUBLISHING CO., 460 b George St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596.
IbHli
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weafr Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Cockle’s Rntihilious Pills.—*
" I no * hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom.”—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family*
Dear Bulletin. —l am prompted to write
to you because Sydney Telegraph has allowed a
friend of mine space to state his grievance, and
I’ve always stuck up for you. My friend is a
morphiamaniac, and the Telegraph has given
him space to point out the sinfulness of Deakin,
Lyne and Co. in putting a duty.on opium and
morphia. What I complain of is the duty on
iron and steel. It is really impossible to get a
decent jemmy made in Australia, and the duty
on the imported article is crushing me. How can
a man practise his profession in comfort in a
country like this? What encouragement am I
getting ? Please use your influence with Deakin.
—Yours, etc.,
W. SYKES.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisin*.'
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
• Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
™ Queensland Rational Rank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual [jife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to'
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Rank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Rank of |) a w Z ea l an| l-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.A7V.
IDontde piete 0. Co., Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. ... £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esa.. 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon j M? Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. m. JA - MKS uorroWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“TTIACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
{p “ Best book of Australian liurnor, 4s. bd.
SUpping.
uxr. id. n..
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin-Screw Steamer-;.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 19th NOVEMBER.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1908.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For farther particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gankof Queensland
LIMITK79. **
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 69,000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agent sand Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N lIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
RZGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS .. .. i R. McKilliani
fDAMASOUS .. |H. A. Schleman
*MILTIADES I A. Douglas, R.N.R.
Noon. Nov.
Noon. Dec.
No m. Jan.
2
6
i
* Twin Screw. t One Glass only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Gape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
d
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
* TROPIC, to sail about 2nd Nov.
PERSIC, to sail about 27th Nov.
RUNIC, MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC
to follow.
* Cargo only.
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ?ork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, lAd.,
Agents in Australia.
£ HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
ď
d
ď
CRUISES. *<s
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS :
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA,
£/ "Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Meeting,
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
of New South Wales Limited.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
The twentieth ordinary general meeting
of the Members will be held in the Royal Exchange,
on MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1907, at Noon.
Business.
To receive Reports and Balance-Sheet to September
30, 1907.
To elect one Director in place of the Hon. I. T.
Humpbery, M.L.C., who retires (under clause 77
of the Articles of Association), and who offers
himself for re-election.
To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs. W. Clarke
and E. Phillips who retire, but are eligible for
and seek re-election.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given in accordance with the
Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’Connell Street, Svdnev, October 9, 1907.
DRUNKENNESS.
SAMPLE FREE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise. Placed in tea or coffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. Perfectly harmless
and easy to administer. It operates so quietly, and with
such certainty, that the patient undergoes no incon-
venience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. We send book of particulars and sample of
Eucrasy free, sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacoiufield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
I
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Vo inlander's
Binoculars.
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
YOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents:
HARRINGTON AND 00. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane,
oa end for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, >
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
November 9, at 1 p.m,
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S.
Marloo, October 26.
November
Jiest and Cheapest Itoute to Gold fields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched .MONTHLY, as follows
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2 10s,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen's Corner. Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
F.—H. = S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For LONDON & LIVERPOOL
(via Cape, but not calling)
The Fine Twin-screw Steamer,
“SOMERSET”
11,000 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 30th October
„ „ ~ Melbourne „ 4th November
„ „ ~ Adelaide „ 9th ~
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining saloon on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL £45 }S S £l2l2s> £l3l3s ‘ £1414s
To be followed by other similar
twin-screw steamers every 28 days.
Luggage received at the F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED,
7 Macquarie Place, Managing Agents.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.in., SATUR-
DAY, October 26.
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, October 26.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
November 2.
ADELAIDE A
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, October 26.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
OOOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 26.
KONOOWARRA, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, October 29.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, November 2.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Business Announcements.
DON’T BE HARD UP.
This can be easily avoided by writing AT ONCE to
THE MINING INVESTMENT AND AGENCY COMPANY,
230 Collins Street, Melbourne, who are absolutely in
the best position to advise when investing your money.
Small amounts invested by us in the very best stocks.
ADVICE FREE. —-
W. Bruce Fox, General Manager.
THe
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BLACK £.lO <a £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
j (Name this Paper.)


o
đ
d
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
“It affords me great pleasure to testify to the marvellous effect your Bronchitis Cure has upon coughs and
colds. I have proved its value in my own home.”
F. W. BINNS, Australian Journal Office, Melbourne.
“For nine years my wife suffered from Asthma and Bronchitis. I tried various treatments for her, but none
succeeded until I got Hearne’s Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. She found benefit from the first bottle, and three
bottles completely cured her. This was nine months ago. She is quite well now, and has never had an attack since.”
A. ORR, Clonbinane, Sunday Creek, Broadford, Victoria.
‘ The cough was just terrific, but your Bronchitis Cure acted splendidly.”—Yours very sincerely,
F. C. GREEN, State School, Rosebud, via Dromana, Victoria.
“ I am glad to tell you that I have been quite free from Bronchitis for the last two years, the result of taking
your Bronchitis Cure.”
W. UTTON, 7 Little Railway-street, Durban, Natal, South Africa.
“ I have used your Bronchitis Cure, and am pleased to say that it is without doubt absolutely the best medicine
on the market for coughs and coughs.”
A. E. ANDERSON, Telegraph Office, Fremantle, West Australia.
“ My husband was cured of Asthma by your Bronchitis Cure more than 12 months ago, and he has not had an
attack since. I have now commenced to give it to my son, five years old, who has had a cold ever since he was born.
I have only given him a few doses and he is better already.”
(Mrs.) W. J. WISHART, Warwick, Queensland.
“ Having used your Bronchitis Cure in my family at different times for years past, I wish to testify to the relief
always afforded by it in colds on the chest, or any complaint arising therefrom.” —Yours, etc.,
E. V. GODDARD, 19 Fitzgerald-street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
“ I have used Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure with splendid results. Always keep it in the home for use. It acts
like magic.”
(Rev.) JAMES SMITH, Methodist Parsonage, Dunkeld. Formerly of Oakleigh, Victoria.
‘I was a bronchial subject for nearly 40 years, but have found Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure a perfect remedy.”
H. EDHOUSE, J.P., Stawell Brewery, Stawell, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is a splendid medicine. It is the best'medicine I have ever used for Coughs, Colds on
Chest, and Sore Throat.”
(Mrs.) JOHN McKENZIE, Werona, Victoria.
“ I suffered very much from Asthma for four years and tried lots of so-called cures, without deriving any
benefit. I got a bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, No. la last Friday, and a bottle of your No. 2 Medicine, for obstinate
Asthma, on Saturday. Since the first dose of your No. 2Medicine, I have not had the wheezing at all.”
V. CAMERON, “ Leongatha,” Riversdale Road, Hawthorn, Melbourne.
Your Bronchitis Cure really acts like magic.”
(Mrs.) E. L. SYMES, Narracoorte Hotel, Narracoorte, South Australia.
“As my purchases show, your remedies are increasing in sale. From time to time I hear people speaking about
the good results obtained from them. Wishing you a very much enlarged sale and great prosperity.”
JOHN KING, Chemist, Ballarat.
“ I have purchased a small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure, and have only taken four doses, and am glad to tell
you that I am cured.”
J. WRIGHT, c/o Mr. D. McLean, Camperdown, Victoria.
“ I was laid up for twelve months with Bronchitis, during which I tried many remedies, without success. I
used two bottles of your Bronchitis Cure, and am now completely cured.”
JAMES WILLIAMS, Huntly Street, Elsternwick, Melbourne.
“ I suffered from Asthma for about fifteen years ; was that ill at times could scarcely walk from one room to
another; often had to sit up in bed part of the night. Tried doctors, patent medicines, and herbalists without 1
success ; was almost tired of trying anything, when, one day, hearing about your Bronchitis Cure, I decided to give
it a trial. I used five bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure, with the result that the difficulty of breathing
and distressing cough have all disappeared. I cannot speak too highly of your valuable medicine, and I recommend
.t to all my friends. ELIZA LANGTON, Wiseman’s Ferry, New South Wales.
l
lam very pleased with your Bronchitis Cure. The result was marvellous. It eased me right off at once.”
G. SEYTER, Bourke, N.S.W.
“ I have used one bottle of your Bronchitis Cure with great benefit to myself, as the smothering has com-
pletely left me.” (Mrs.) JOHN RAHILLY, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“ I have tried lots of medicine, but yours is the best I ever had. lam recommending it to everybody.”
S. STEELE, Yanko Siding, N.S.W.
“ I suffered from Chronic Asthma and Bronchitis, for which I obtained no relief until I tried your medicine, but
I can truly say that I am astonished at my present freedom, as a direct result of my brief trial.”
JOHN C. TRELAWNEY, Severn River, via Inverell, N.S.W.
“ Last year I suffered severely from Bronchitis, and the doctor, to whom I paid seven guineas, did not do me any
good ; but I heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and two bottles of it made me quite well.”
H. HOOD, Brooklands, Avoca Street, South Yarra, Melbourne.
“Please send me half-a-dozen of your Bronchitis Cure. This medicine cured me in the winter, and has now
cured a friend of mine of a very bad Bronchitis.”
A. ALLEN, Ozone House, Lome, Victoria.
“ Kindly r forward another bottle of your famous Bronchitis Cure without delay, as I find it to be a most valuable
medicine.”
(Mrs.) J. SLATER, Warragul, Victoria.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure relieved my son wonderfully quick. I only gave him four doses, and have some of the
medicine yet; but lam sending for another bottle in case I should want it.”
D. M’DONALD, Trinkey, via Quirindi, N.S.W.
Your Bronchitis Cure has a great reputation here. We sell more of it than of any other chest medicine we
stock.”
WILLIAMSON & CO., Windorah, via Charleville, Queensland.
“ Your Bronchitis Cure is the best medicine I have ever taken.”
D. WILLIAMS, Hill-street, Lithgow, N.S.W.
“ I can thoroughly testify' to the wonderful efficacy of your Bronchitis Cure in a consumptive cough, it having
relieved me when other prescriptions had no effect whatever.”
T. LEWIS, Kimbolton, via Wellington, N.Z.
I must congratulate you on the phenomenal sale of your Bronchitis Cure. It is astonishing.”
FRANK UREN, Pharmaceutical Chemist, Hamilton.
I have used your Bronchitis Cure myself, and have recommended it to others, with most beneficial results.”
(Rev.) E. J. HENDERSON, Gumeracha, South Australia.
“ Upon looking through our books we are struck with the steady and rapid increase in the sales of your
Bronchitis Cure.”
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Wholesale Druggists, Sydney, N.S.W
The bottle of Bronchitis Cure I got from you was magical in its effects.”
CHAS. WYBROW, Enoch’s Point, via Darlingford, Victoria.
I used your Bronchitis Cure for three of my family, and it cured each of them in from one to three doses.”
P. F. MULLINS, Cowie’s Creek, Victoria.
Your Bronchitis Cure is a wonderful medicine.”
A. B. SIMMONS, J.P., No. 7 Renny Street, Paddington, Sydney.
“My wife is 82 years old, and lam 79. lam glad to inform you that your Bronchitis Cure has done us both a
wonderful deal of good, having quickly cured us both.”
R. BASSETT, Strath Creek, via Broadford, Victoria.
“We, the undersigned, have had occasion to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and we certify that it was
perfectly and rapidly successful under circumstances which undoubtedly' prove its distinct healing power.” Signed
by the Rev. JOHN SINCLAIR, Myers-street, Geelong, and 59 other leading residents.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS / The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CUBE has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HEARN E’S and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE —Small Size, 2s. 6d.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5 f First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney .
A
A
V
m
‘ ¥
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
Under the stupid property franchise for
the Leg. Council, agreed on as a compromise in
S. Aus., a man gets a vote if he pays 6s. a
week rent; but if he only pays 6s. 6d. he is not
admitted to the polling booth of the mighty,
unless it happens to be leap year. Then for the
extra day in leap year he has to pay enough rent
to carry him across the line, wherefore a man who
hasn’t stake enough in the country in other years
has enough stake if the years are divisible by four
without remainder, except on the last year of
each century, when he hasn’t got stake enough
unless he can divide the years by 400 without
remainder. It’s a weird system.
“H.R.S.” tells a condensed narrative
about the “ still waters that run deep ”
A boat glided from the open sea into a calm reach at
the entrance to the river. It was dusk. The first shy
stars had already gained confidence, and were shining
boldly before the world. The man with the oars rested
lightly, and gazed at Her nestled against the tiller.
“ Shall we go up ? ” he asked.
She assented.
No waves here retarded progress. The boat glided
noiselessly, serenely. The harsh croak of the rowlocks
alone broke the stillness. The reach extended for miles,
and everywhere were beautiful gardens, washed gently at
foot by the water. Lights glistened in the big houses
built a little way from the water’s edge. Occasionally a
stray bit of song was carried to them—the last chord on
a grand piano, the twanging melody of a guitar.
The waters widened. Tiny ripples kept up a monoto-
nous lap-lap on the wooden prow. More lights, more
gaiety.
“ Say, George,” she whispered, “ the owners of these
houses must earn £25 a week, don’t they?”
George never answered. The tiny laps of the waves
grew into swishes. His strong arms sent the boat
rapidly ahead. Far up the reach he let the craft drift.
The sluggish waters carried it inshore, where the full
splendor of the mansions was revealed. He parted the
bushes to get a better view. From a house a new song
was issuing. Its cadences held him. They both list-
ened. Clear, flute-like, a glorious voice rolled the
message out, low at first, as the grey streaks of dawn
herald the coming day, but ascending with virility until
the crashing crescendos reached their zenith in the God-
given message to human-kind:
“ For unto us this day a son is born.”
The music died. The singer had sung her song.
“ This is Arcady,” she whispered.
“The Messiah,” he replied. “It is heavenly. ‘For unto
us this day a son is born.’ Shall we go ashore and build
our tent in Arcady ?” A fitful moon showed a landing.
His arms bent strenuously, the oars made fresh music in
the waves.
“Wait, George,” she answered; “what do you earn
now? I forget.”
“ Twenty-five shillings, dear ; it is sufficient.”
A short sigh escaped her. The bang of the tiller broke
the stillness, and the boat was heading for the open sea.


"~r — —;
Write for Price List
and Catalogues
to the Sole Agents,
LIPP PIANOS.
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
In the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability.
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free,
MELBOURNE*
ALLAN & CO. PROP., Ltd
270-8 Collins Street.
SYDNEY t
W. H. PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 George Street.
STOMACH TROUBLES EASILY REMOVED
THE
LONDON LANCET
says :
“It is now recognised as a
valuable addition to natural
aperient medicines.”
HOWTO STIMULATE THE LIVER AND PROMOTE DIGESTION.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the digestive processes so perfectly that errors of diet are neutralised
thereby. It enables you to eat heartily without the dread of overfulness, flatulency, or acidity.
People of sedentary occupation require periodical stimulation of the liver, which plays a most important
part in digestion. The bile should be discharged into the intestine to mix with the food from the
stomach, otherwise constipation will be very pronounced. Perfect digestion means perfect action of
the stomach, liver, and bowels. Kutnow’s Powder acts concurrently on each of these forces _of
digestion; hence its value in ensuring regularity. Another point of merit is its beneficial cleansing
properties ; a dose of Kutnow’s Powder cleanses the Stomach, rouses the Liver, frees the bile, and sets
the machinery in perfect working order.
THE BRITISH
MEDICAL JOURNAL
says :
“It is gentle, effervescent,
and is a very efficient and
agreeable aperient.”
REV. F. L. BULLEN
WEITES :
“Wellesley, Church Lane,
“Highfield, Southampton.
“Dear Sirs,— l have no objection to your publish-
ing my testimony concerning the excellent properties
of Kutnow’s Powder. I only wish I had tried it
years ago. In my case it has proved to be an agree-
able and gentle aperient, cleansing the liver and
kidneys, relieving the brain of any symptoms of pain
or discomfort, and regulating generally the whole
organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLENV
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD
The Genuine and Original Xutnow’s Powder
can foe had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the world. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S. Kutnow & Co., Ltd.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER
A POPULAR NOVELIST
WRITES :
“ 31, Gatton-road, Bristol,
“ August 14th, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —For a considerable period I suffered
from severe headache and mental depression, no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary occupation as a
novelist, but I now always fly to Kutnow’s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent, which never fails
to afford instant and pleasurable relief. It truly is
a marvellous and efficacious; remedy, and I do not
wonder at its enormous sale.—Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
WELL-KNOWN
BARONESS
WRITES :
“Albion House, Send-hill,
Gibraltar South,
“ 12th Jan., 1906.
“The Baroness von Gausage
begs to inform Messrs. Kut-
now that she is entirely satis-
fiied with their excellent Kut-
now’s Powder, and has recom-
mended the same to many of
her friends.”
REV. E. LANCASTER
WRITES :
“The Parsonage, Tsomo, Transkei, Cape Colony,
“January 22nd, 1906.
“Sirs, —I am most pleased and perfectly satisfied with
the results of using Kutnow’s Powder, and shall in future
never be without it. My little children, too, have also bene-
fited by using it, and, being so pleasant to the taste, they
quite enjoy it.—l remain, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) EDGAR LANCASTER.”
NURSE BOGLE
WRITES :
“37, Hill Top Mount, Leeds,
“ Yorkshire.
“Dear Sirs, —Before I ever heard of Kutnow’s Powder I
suffered horribly with biliousness and indigestion, but since
taking the Powder regularly I can eat anything and enjoy it.
I have tried several medicines, but they have all proved
useless. —Yours faithfully,
“(Nurse) JANET BOGLE.”
BRITISH
VICE-CONSUL
WKITKS :
“ British Vice-Consulate,
Tarragona,
March 12, 1906.
“Dear Sirs, —I am still using
Kutnow’s Powder, and find
same a very valuable aperient;
it carries out all it is advertised
to do. — l remain, yours truly,
“JAMES HAWES,
• “British Vice-Consul.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH.„


ď
There is nothing more delightfully Soothing and
Refreshing for the Skin and Body than
the use of Zam-Buk Soap.
u . ■ -
The warm summer weather always brings with it a crop of Skin Affections,
Pimples, and Blackheads are always a common skin trouble of summer, due to an
impeded action of the pores throughout the winter, and which becomes contaminated
with impurities; thus with the approach of the warmer days the skin breaks out
in various eruptions. Bash Chafings, Irritation, Prickly Heat, Sun Spots, Offensive
Perspiration, Sunburn, Insect Bites, etc., affect the skin only in the Summer
months. There are few people who escape skin affections in one shape or another
at this time of the year. The least exertion will, with most people, cause Chafings,
Heat Spots, and other skin eruptions which, with unhealthy conditions existing in
the pores, are frequently the cause of Eczema, and other skin diseases.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap
lias unique advantages possessed by no other skin preparation, in that its medicines penetrate
and aid a natural action of the skin's glands. It corrects and protects the skin at all
seasons. Washing with this soap the hot irritated skin is soothed, refreshed, and purified,
and with constant use it keeps the important pores always free from impurities, hence skin
affections, which usually exist and are aggravated by common toilet soaps, are entirely prewo,
when Zam-Buk Soap is regularly used in the bath, toilet, or the children’s nursery.
D
O
D
0
Tiren^thenj 1 the
n
D
ZAfVi-BUK SOAP
is a most economical soap to use
ami with every lather the healt/
and texture of the skin benefits.
Ask your Chenrst or Storekeepe
for Zam-Buk Soap, or obtain ii
direct fmm Tje Zan-i-Buk
Co., 39 P.tt 3 SYDfIEY.^
ST
!§sl %
V
IjF
vvw.
<£o'
k®s
si
Q
» .MO <*
O'
S)
©
&
<V
I
%
%
3
I'llH )
Q
ihM*
llllilUll
cs=^
d
=l»l\\l |MH , ‘I ,,, ‘
& k
‘
i «'2 ( '
) G \|)
;.Hi
ifl
$
-WIJ.
r. j
Ensures
SI in
.Health. •
and
Shin .
Beauty.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The S. Aus. Produce Export Department esti-
mates that it will send away 350,000 lambs this season.
When the depdt first proposed to deal with the lamb export
trade, Peter Waite and George Downer, of Elder, Smith
and Co., sniffed Socialism, and were quite sure that the
State could not successfully undertake the business.
Elder, Smith and Co. now do a huge trade for their clients
through the depdt, and if it were proposed to abolish it,
their yell would probably be the loudest in the land. It
is another case of G. H. Reid’s recently-exploited bogey
turning out, on closer inspection, to be a fine, useful piece
of commercial machinery.
The one argument against Government butter-
grading that seemed to have some substance in it is
badly punctured by the big Weddel firm in its “ Colonial
Dairy Produce Review, 1907.” The argument was that,
since butter of different qualities and characters under-
went different changes in the course of a few weeks,
grading at the Australian end was useless and sometimes
worse. But the Weddel firm, which ought to know
more about the European market for Australian cow-
grease than any other two authorities put together, says
that the compulsory grading has been an extra-special
success. The firm had shuddered at the “ very great
interference with private enterprise,” like most people
who have been stuffed with tales about the Socialist
bogey; “but,” it adds, “the practical success of com-
pulsory grading has amply justified its introduction.”
The Myersons were not the originators of the
swindle that lately earned them trouble in Sydney.
A while ago the softgoods warehouses fell into
much the same bog, and that time the man who lured
them in got clean away. He did his business on much
more artistic lines than the Myersons, and took about a
couple of years to work up to the grand coup. First he
bought for his little business from hand to mouth, paying
spot cash. Then gradually he worked up until he
coyly allowed himself to be pressed into taking a
big line on bills. After that he inv.igled the house
that had done the big line with him to talk about
its smartness in persuading so inveterate a cash cus-
tomer to break his rules and launch out. Down
came the others in the trade to get a bit of business on
the same terms. The big Sydney fluff warehouses have
an association, and protect themselves prettv well; but
the five-times more numerous small fry don’t share confi-
dences with anybody. Consequently there were half-a-
dozen pouring stuff on credit into the inveterate cash
customer, each one thinking that it was his own exclusive
little find. As fast os it came in at the front door the
stuff went out at the back door, and was re-sold to the
trade —a good deal of it in Melbourne. Then when the
bills were due the shop was found to be shut, and all but
empty ; and the inveterate cash customer had faded out
of the landscape. The Myersons made too much noise
about their coup ; an auctioneer can’t ring a bell without
attracting somebody’s attention. And, besides, York-
street hasn’t forgotten the other coup yet.
* * * •
S. M. Herald’s Bradford (England) correspon-
dent (13/10/’O7) spun a yarn with a bearing on “ tops ”: —■
“The announcement that the Federal Parliament
intends to give a bonus of IJd. per lb. upon the export of
tops combed in Australia for the next three years, and Id.
per lb. thereafter, has been received in Bradford with a
f air degree of merriment. Topmakers here fail to see the
feasibility of such a thins happening in the lifetime
of the present generation. No doubt it is within
the range of possibility for Australian manufac-
turers to comb and spin all the worsted yarns
a e H^Jv qUlre, T Ufc ?A^ r , export ' n§: to P s > that is another
matter. ... I don t think for a moment that tops combed
in Australia and exported to any market, except those of
the Commonwealth, can be produced as cheap and re-
exported as what are made in Bradford. Our topmakers
Si a wfh SpeC,al 'f 1 the art of com bing that they can
DECEIVE the very elect, and wools of all countries are
now so blended for cheapness that very few can say what
tops are combed from. I should say that 90 per cent, of
Bradford topmakers produce ‘ blended ’ tops, there being
very few firms who sell the pure Australian tops. W.
and J. Whitehead, of Laisterdyke, have the best name in
Bradford for their standard 60’s, and latelv they have
been making 2s. 4£d., against others’2s. Old. for the
same quality of tops. We have two or three more
hrms who guarantee their tops to be pure
Australian, and these possess a very honorable
name. But blending and mixing is so universally
practised that, if a top will spin at all andiproduce a yarn
a penny a lb. cheaper, it has to do so, everything to-day
being based on a question of cheapness.”
In other words, the Bradford topmakers, in the
struggle for existence under Freetrade, have been forced
to ‘ fake,” and by long and strenuous practice have at
reduced “ faking ” to such a line art that the idea
of an honest Australian “ top ” competing against them
moves them to laughter.
* * * •
The Senate was asked, when the Bills of
Exchange law was drifting through Parliament, to say
that cheques must be presented within six month's
of issue ; but eventually the House made it 12 months.
If that is passed, it will end a lot of worries ; and if it
had been the law hitherto, it might have prevented one
of the biggest sensations Far West N.S.W. ever had to
talk about. The Greens were as well-known a family as
any up and down the rivers. One of them, in business 25
years ago at Bourke, bought a bullocky’s turn-out for
£2OO. The cheque was never presented. Two years
afterwards the carrier turned up and asked for another
cheque, as he had lost the first one. Green refused,
without an indemnity, in case the original cheque turned
up. The bullocky couldn’t furnish the indemnity, and
didn't understand what all the trouble was about. He
chewed it over, and couldn’t be persuaded that Green
wasn’t taking him dow n. In the end he followed Green
to a hotel, fired at him, and paralysed him for life (years
afterwards the poor fellow committed suicide). The
bullocky, having fired, turned the revolver on himself,
and did that job more effectively.
* * * *
A down South mining director of much
magnificence w r as up in Queensland the other w'eek
viewing a recent very “ tough ” boom flotation. Taking
a party of friends out, he led them up to the top of a hill;
then, turning to them, he swept an arm in a lordly
fashion over the desolation, and remarked: “Novv,
gentlemen, you see the enormity of the proposition ! ”
They didn’t see it at the moment; but the mine, which
cost them thousands, has since been closed down, and
they see the enormity of it now all right.
The Stock Exchange of Adelaide has been
celebrating its 20th birthday. It started with 50 mem-
bers, each of whom paid £25 for his seat; now it has 72,
and a seat is worth over £5OO. During the Broken Hill
boom, and again in the lvalgoorlie boom, the price Of a
seat rose to £lOOO, and in between those tw 7 o periods one
could have been had for under £BO.
* * * *
“Pea Green”: Danckel, M.L.A., who said
some things about the sausage that is born in Holy Ade-
laide, had a good reason for seeking an investigation. In
the days of his degeneracy he had himself been before
the beaks, and he was ready to swear that he was,
comparatively speaking, a very mild sinner. The
published reports by the health inspectors amply bore
out his suspicions. It was horrible reading for the
public ; and naturally a great fall-off in offal-filled skin
took place. Then an outcry from the “ leading makers of
small-goods ” arose, and spilt over into the columns of the
daily press, and everybody said, “Oh ! it w-asn’t that
shop w>e meant.” All the same, certain establishments
must turn out peculiar stuff even yet. Writer saw-
sausage merchandise being vended during Show w-eek
which had a distinct fungoid growth on its cuticle. An
tlle cellar or dungeon where that skiii-
tight offal had open stowed over night ought to be an in-
teresting investigation for any square inspector.
* ~ * *
Janor”: What a fuss over the discovery of
magnate (“registered as a* mineral a few days ago
vide Mr. E. Kilburn Scott in 8., 26/9/’O7). At Fifield,
too. Great Scott! someone will be finding coal at New-
castle and gold at Bendigo one of these days. Why,
scores of prospectors and miners have for years been
aware of the existence of those Fifield deposits of mag-
nesite (registered as a mineral a few days ago). Twenty
years ago I brought samples of the stuff to Sydney and sub-
mitted them toMr. Wilkinson, then Government Geologist,
andon hisadvicel worked hard to get capital into the show,
but without success. Might, as well have looked for pine-
apples on an iceberg’, and I dropped magnesite (registered
a few days ago) to pick up something people understood.
However, as a good Australian, I rejoice that it has again
been “ discovered,” and that at a time when it can be
utilised, for there are vast quantities of it available.
During my stay in that portion of N.S.W., I noticed
other outcrops miles distant from the Fifield deposits of
magnesite (registered as a mineral a few days ago).
*** ’ *
Here is the account sales received by a Parra-
matta (N.S. W.) man who had sent fruit to London :
'.C-r. 46 cases of lemons, £lO 16s. 6d. ; 2 cases passion
fruit, 6s. ; 1 case passion fruit, plundered, 2s. Dr.-
Expenses in Sydney, 50 fruit cases, £1 17s. 6d. ; freight
to London, £8 2s. 6d. ; handling in Sydney, 12s. 6d. ;
insurance, wrapping-paper, etc., 18s. ; total, £ll 10s. 6d.;
London charges, £2 Bs. 9d. Total charges, £l3 19s. 3d.
Total proceeds of sale, £ll 4s. 6d.”
Thus Parramatta was out of pocket £2 14s. 9d. At the
time the fruit was sent away, oranges were fetching at
least 2s. 6d. a case in Sydney l , and the exporter of that
particular lot was therefore offering himself up
patriotically as a shocking- example of the folly of wor-
shipping the “ Primary Industry ” and exporting fetich-
Joke Cook, whom this Parramatta man probably helps to
send to Parliament, tells him not to worry about Aus-
tralian manufactures—that he can’t compete with the
low-wage foreigner, and therefore he ought to stick to
the “ great natural industries.” And when he does stick
to the great natural industries, and finds that he has to
export his products because there isn’t a manufacturing
population here to eat them, he gets a document showing
that he is £2 14s. 9d. to the bad on a £l2 transaction.
“J.P.”: Stock auctioneers usually have an
account called “ Suspense.” It is an absolute necessity)
and frequently- it is very- profitable. Quite a large amount
of-stock is sold every year on account of strangers whose
addresses are unknown and who forget to call, or are
afraid to call, for the proceeds. I once held a position in
a large stock auctioneering business in Maoriland, and’’
the account' familiarly known as “ Mr. Suspense ” was
always a mystery. A stranger would run three Cows'
into the saleyard, and, when asked his name; would'
answer, “J. Brown. I’ll call for the money.” The
account sales would be made out, “J. Brown. Calls.”'
“Mr. Brown,” however, wouldn’t put in an appearance,
and at the end of three months the cashier wduid get :
tired of expecting him, and write the cheque back
to “Suspense.” The usual explanation of the failure
of vendors to turn up in cases like this is that the stock
has been stolen, and they fear detection. Sometimes it
is merely casualness on the part of a farmer, and in a few
cases someone comes along eventually to claim the
money. I remember an instance where someone took a
grain drill to a country saleyard and dropped it hurriedly'
just inside the gate. It was in good order, and worth
about £l2. No one knew anything about it, and it lay ;
there exposed to the weather for two years. Then one
sale day one of the auctioneers sold it for £2, and, the
owner being unknown, it was credited to “ Suspense.”
Two years later (four years after the drill had been left
in the saleyard) a farmer called at the office and inquired.;
casually for his cheque for a drill. After some trouble
he proved that he was the owner of the drill sold two
years previously, after two .years’ exposure to the weather.
As the cashier wrote out a cheque to the debit of “ Sus-
pense,” he mentioned to the farmer that he had been a
long time in calling for the money. “O, I knew it was
all right, and there wasn’t any need to hurry,” was the
reply. At this stupendous tribute to his honesty the
cashier nearly fainted.
THE BUSTED MILLION A THE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In modest way I wish to say,
I’m Brown of Doodlekine ;
And that's away in W.A.,
Along the Goldfields line.
You’ll see the scrub, around the pub,
And, when you read the sign,
You’ll know why I am always dry—
The buildi no- isn't mine.
On Sunday last a stranger passed—
As strangers sometimes do ;
His face was sad, his feet were bad.
His boots were nearly through.
His pants were torn, his hat was wor ,
His shirt was like a flue ;
A nd for a swag he had a bag-,
And that was dirty too.
I do not pose as one of those
Who love their fellow-men ;
But, goodness knows, a fellow owe;
A kindness now and then.
And some day if, like him, I’m stiff
(And I may he so yet),
llow I’ll rejoice to hear a voice
Say “ Comanavawet.”
As he drew nigh, I heard him si; h
As tho’ his heart was broke.
“ Now then,” said I, “ how shall I i ry
To cheer this weary bloke.
I think I’ll shout, for that, no doubt,
Will ease him of his woe ;
And draw him out, to talk about
The thing that grieves him so.”
But all the beer there is up here,
And all the beer in Perth
\\ ould fail to cheer that pilgrim dr. r
Or stimulate his mirth.
“ My hope is dead,” the stranger said,
“ I’ll never smile again.”
He shook his head (his eyes were red)
He seemed to be in pain.
In vain he tried his grief to hide—
His eyes held each a tear.
The liquid woes ran down his nose
And dropped into his beer.
And then, as though ashamed to show
His grief to everyone,
He drained his glass, and then, alas !
He groaned when it was done.
And then he spoke, this dismal bloke,
In language hot and strong.
With many an oath he traced the growth
Of villainy and wrong ;
With language rare he smote the air
And cursed the Federal folk ;
The silken bond, of kinship fond,
He called a “galling yoke.”
“ In German goods and Yankee woods
I lots of money made ;
Diluted milk and bunkum silk
Are profitable trade.
Of paper boots and cotton suits
My shop was always full ;
The boots I’d brand as ‘ leather,’ and
The cotton would be ‘ wool.’
“ But now the game is not the same.
They made it very hard
When we’d to state the proper weight,
And call three feet a yard.
And, last of all, this Tariff Wall ”
(And here he tore his hair)
“ Has broken me, and thus you see
A ruined millionaire.”
And oh ! ’twas sad ! ’twas grievous sad !
To see that strong man weep,
And we were glad to find he had
Curled on the floor to sleep.
And after that we took the hat,
And each one gave a share,
For we have got a tender spot
For a Busted Millionaire.
WESTRALIA.
TOM BEASLEY.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
S)6c LEADING
HOUSE for
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
m
uw
m
MUM
Best Selected SilKworm G\it. Hand Polished.
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spam.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Qut procurable
itfrvSWSs ia -
No. 328-Sp art . o w Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
-5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 21/6 each
5 x 15, do. do. 26/- ea.
6 x 20, do. do. 31/6 ea.
5 x 25, do. do. 38/6 ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 42/- ea.
No. 329—Bat Folding: Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, tor night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Pitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
S9/pug
. //
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’b Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s od. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
đ
home cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes.it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth -covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s Od.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
lg 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s Gd. How McDougal Topped thf. Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IST" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage,
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la ad Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alh Ptgrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
Sis INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
'4—
nOattne 1
FOR AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
There never was a toilet preparation
so suitable for Australian use as
OATINE, the great English face
cream.
It is free from animal fat and cannot go
bad, however great the heat. It contains no
dangerous mineral salt and doesn’t grow hair.
It cleanses the pores, removing dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, and
keeps the skin smooth and soft.
Oatine will enable any Australian woman
to keep the fresh, clear complexion of youth
through the hot Australian summers.
First put on the market a year ago it is
already the favorite face cream with English
ladies. Men use it, too, after shaving, forit
soothes and heals the skin. Price 1/9 a
dainty jar, or 3/6 larger size, holding four
times as much.
At all chemists, stores, etc., througn-
ou£ Australia. Get a jar to-day.
THE DEAF HEAR.
DEAF Persons need not despair. Out of the
mass of failures has come a genuine success. Head
noises are cured, and Deaf made to hear so effect-
ively that they wonder if they really were deaf.
Particulars of‘a startling discovery, based upon
the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity, that
will assist all persons suffering from Deafness,
fully described.
n'rfcCC I Send name and address to THE
nKtlt * L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64
HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, a»d you 'nil re-
ceive a description of this method, which will
enable you to restore your hearing at a very slight
expense ; and you will be delighted to learn how
easily you can obtain relief.
DYSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands.” 4s. fid.
lightful and wickedly true.'
“De-
d
UM- C.
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES
NEW Chib Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
ď
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ESTAMEIi (Washable) Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and wash-ng
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied,
‘ * BAPOUIIV EI*AMBUS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article. _
“SAFOIiIM” BATH TUB EWAMEU. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
r*
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALES STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL s A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elisabeth St., Melbourne.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
M Biitisft=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d»
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters ruay be addressed care of
the Beitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
David Braham & C-
-94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
HIGH-CLASS SUITINGS
for SUMMER.
Periodical Shipments reach us right through
the Season.
Call and Inspect, or Write for Samples and
Self-Measure Charts.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
TAILORS,
-94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.-


A. <& F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Slotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceed ngs
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
eJjfi Ltd -
The Wentworth Hotel
Church Hill, Sydney.
NOTED FOR LUNCHEONS AND DINNERS.
Guest Nights—Thursday and Saturday.
PRIVATE DINNERS A SPECIALTY.
MRS. MACLURCAN
Proprietress
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
đ
d
CORPULENCY
PERMANENTLY CURED !
Corpulency and Obesity ape extremely ugly conditions.
Excess Fat is uncomfortable, inconvenient, unsightly, and
a source of constant danger to its victim. Science has dis-
covered a harmless, NON-poisonous, and permanent cure.
“FAT CURE”
enhances the general health, _ while at the same time,
it reduces the weight from five pounds a week to over
two stone a month in some cases. Once reduced there
is no possibility of a return to the old condition.
IMPROVES THE GENERAL HEALTH.
"Fatcure’ has no direct action upon the heart. It re-
moves the fatty tissue surrounding the heart and
intestines, to the great benefit of all the internal organs.
SEND 2d. POSTAGE FOR FREE SAMPLE.
Enclose 2d. in stamps to us and let us send you—under closed cover
without marks a Free Sample of ‘Fatcure’ and our book giving par--
ticulars. All communications treated with strict privacy. Treatment
forwarded in plain wrapper. All publicity is avoided.
A GRATEFUL LADY WRITES s-
What ' vort h o°.—You are at liberty to refer any sceptics to me. “Fatcure” reduced my weight
over two stone under three months, and improved my general health. I now feel splendid and niv work
formerlyahardship, » now a real pleasure. Mrs. W. J. PERRETT, Frogmore Park, Gunnedah ’
CALL IF CONVENIENT. WE WILL WEIGH YOU PRIVATELY. DO NOT DELAY.
Hours : 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Daily.
THE WATWORTH CO., SUITE J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
The Picnic on the Beach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UPON a Summer’s day it fell,
A day too warm to preach,
The White Cross Leaguers held,
pell-mell,
Their picnic on the beach.
They all were there, smug moralists,
In sad and saintly throng,
Whose milk-and-water creed consists
In doing nothing wrong.
They swilled the tea, they ate the bun,
They picked the gaunt ham bone,
And brother Smith had just begun
Upon his fourteenth scone.
A cry broke through the quiet wood,
Through boughs forms glittered bright;
The sisterhood and brotherhood
Looked up in dire affright.
From groves, from out deep-bosomed seas
Of fern and foliage broke
Fauns dancing, Hamadryades,
Upon those mournful folk.
Wood Nymphs, the souls of fruits and flowers,
Bright Imps of fire and dew,
Blossoms and buds of rosy hours,
The shaggy Satyr crew.
Centaurs and Dryads, Naiads sweet,
Quaint shapes, half-man, half-beast,
Wild children of the Summer’s heat,
Come join the scattered feast.
They dance the Congregation round,
When lo ! —he comes, he comes,
Bacchus with thyrsus, ivy crowned
With Maenads beating drums.
Bacchus, the son of Seinele,
Pard-drawn, flushed-faced, divine, —
To fill dull hearts with leaping glee
To gladden earth with wine.
In lynx-skin clad, with pastoral reed,
Goat-footed, twain-horned Pan
Gaily the nimble dance doth lead,
Till cleric cheeks grow wan.
Brave banners of the summer’s sun
Are joyously unfurled,
And morning stars now shine upon
The morning of the world.
The cup of rapture bubbles o’er
As when first grapes began ;
Nymphs’ red lips pout, a menace sore
To pale-faced Puritan.
The Joy of Life they bring, till all,
Pagan or priest, take hands,
Caper and sing, and jocund call
Along those yellow sands.
Mad cymbals crash; the flutes pipe loud,
And throned on oozing vat
Silenus leers upon the crowd
Beneath a shovel hat.
Once more folk lead light-hearted lives,
They fly to merry Loves
Like bees let loose from darkened hives
Buzzing to sunlit groves.
The Curate mild, he plays the fool
With wood nymphs debonnair ;
The Teacher of the Sunday School
Wears vine leaves in his hair.
In twinkling nook away from harm,
Where sweethearts aye embraced,
The Moderator slips an arm
Around some shining waist.
Upon that strip of shaded green,
To bless, but not to ban,
A smiling Naiad slips between
Verger and Vestryman.
When modest Angeline retires
Within that ti-tree shade,
The wickedness of things inspires
The short-frocked, muslin maid.
On leopard’s neck, a jolly seat,
She tempts without excuse
Young satyrs fawning round her feet
To kiss her wanton shoes.
And nakedly, as fresh, as fair
As mermaiden may be,
Clarice, she combs her gleaming hair
Beside an opal sea.
Since all luxuriant summer comes
Brains reel with subtle spe.lls.
Spices and scented woods, sweet gums,
Amaranths, asphodels.
With tossing curls and star-bright eyes
Folk picnic on the lawn,
Till Earth is Earthly Paradise.
From dawn till golden dawn.
And never more these Converts preach
Of sins that souls enmesh,
Nor cry “ Beware ! ” when hearts beseech
The Devil and the Flesh.
For they have learned the creed of joy,
Such songs the Sirens sung,
Gay Gospels, ’fore the Siege of Troy
When this grey world was young ;
The joyous Pagan mysteries
Things sinful, sweet, divine,
Riot of roses, sparkling seas,
And song and dance and wine.
Thus, from dull creeds the Converts stray
Though pious friends beseech.
To carry on till Judgment Day
Their Picnic on the Beach.
VIO.
LOUIS ESSON.
By Rail and Semaphore.
IN THE DAY’S WORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Telegraphist Miner idled lazily in the
solitary easy-chair that ornamented the
operating-room of Romahapa Traffic Office.
The day was slack, and, in the absence of more
interesting literature, Miller had been studying
the Rule Book. It was dry. With a yawn he
threw it into the drawer, and went over to
the window that looked down into the broad,
busy street.
Behind him an instrument clicked suddenly, in
a jerky, spasmodic manner, rapping out the signal
“ urgent Vasby an after-thought. Miller grabbed
a clip of receiving forms, signalled ‘ ‘ DR here ! ”
and, as the instrument clicked, wrote steadily :
“ Urgent Railway Telegram from Braeside to
Romahapa. Ten bar six bar one. Urgent. Dis-
trict Traffic Manager, Romahapa. Man named
John Smith killed alighting from No. 15 South.
L. Jones.”
It was laconic enough to suggest that the man
who wrote it was utterly callous. Miller acknow-
ledged the receipt, glanced at the clock, marked
the time, and, walking through the door on to the
landing, entered the Manager’s room. It was
empty. He passed on to where Traffic Clerk
Fluter sat bending over the pile of papers that
seemed to be always on his table, and which, year
in, year out, never seemed to grow less. Miller
placed the telegram on the table beside the tall,
dark man.
“ Accident at Braeside, sir.”
Fluter took the paper, gazed steadily at it for a
moment, and put it down with a sigh.
“ Did he say anything ? ”
“ No, sir ; too upset.”
“ H’m. He sent it himself, then ? ”
“ Yes, sir.”
“Very well; I suppose a full report will come
in immediately. Don’t worry him.”
The telegraphist knew by the tremulous way in
which the sender of that message had jerked out
his signals that he was too full of feeling to send
one unnecessary word ; he had even omitted the
usual “forS. M.” that should have followed his
signature.
Out at Braeside a man had been killed, and
Miller in the telegraph room went about his work
as though he knew nothing of it. Instruments
clicked now and again—unimportant messages
concerning the number of sheep-trucks wanted at
some outlying station —as though there wasn’t a
corpse on the whole section. Once when two
instruments called simultaneously, Miller just
leaned over and tapped “Wait” on one instru-
ment while he read the message on the other.
Inside, close up to the brazen gas fireplace, in his
glass case, Traffic-Clerk Fluter bent over his pile
of papers, showing no sign of emotion. And the
half-fascinated cadet, new to the work, conjured
up a picture of a vast machine into whose works a
man, fly-like, had strayed and been struck dead by
whirling wheels.
* • » *
Out at Braeside, immediately after No. 15 had
departed, a man walked into the office. As he
passed down the platform he saw a little knot of
people talking earnestly. He thought he heard a
sound like sobs, but the wintry wind moaned
round the station building, and he passed into the
office where, behind the little counter, a bright
fire burnt cheerfully in the register grate. On the
desks around the room lay the open station books.
He tapped on the counter with his stick. A tall,
burly young man came out of the inner room with
a telegraph form in his hand, and inquired in a
low voice what he required. He wanted two
horse-boxes for the first train to-morrow. The
tall, burly young man entered it in a book, asked
for a deposit of 10s. on each, gave him a receipt,
and turned back to his books.
The stranger went out and headed for the pub
across the street, where he called for whisky hot.
As the landlord mixed it he remarked about the
curious nature of the accident, and wound up by
informing the stranger that the dead man was
lying in the waiting room over at the station at
that particular, identical moment. “Terrible,
ain’t it ? ” he said with a reflective wag of the
head as he passed over the liquor and swept the
sixpence into the till.
The stranger agreed, and remarked that he
thought the railway bloke’s hand trembled a bit as
he wrote him out a receipt. Then he went away
and forgot it.
• * * *
At three o’clock Jones lurched into the Traffic
Office. His hard hat was only slightly to one
side, and his pipe stuck straight out in front.
These were sure signs that he was upset. He
forgot to remove the pipe and the hat as he strode
over to Fluter’s table and subsided into the chair.
“ You look a bit harrowed,” remarked the
Tariff Clerk as sympathetically as he could.
“ I’m broke right up,” said Jones. He sud-
denly remembered his hat, which he flopped down
on to Fluter’s papers, and diving his hand into
his breast pocket he drew out a long envelope.
“There’s the full report,” and he blew an
awful cloud of smoke towards the ceiling.
The Traffic Clerk never noticed the hole that
Jones was making in the rules, and grabbed the
letter with an eager hand.
“ You can read that after—l’ll tell you about
it. Old Driver Lennox came down the hill with
a full head, and just overshot the platform a bit.
Smith only got married a month ago, and had
just been hack from his honeymoon a week. He
had a cottage out there, and they settled down.
Of course, the gilt being still on the gingerbread,
he must come home to dinner every day, and only
being married a month she had to come down to
• the station to meet him. Then they would come
back together, and stand talking, holding one
another’s hands till the very last minute. He
darned near got killed a couple of days before
through waiting to kiss her a second time after
the whistle had blown. I told him then he’d
better not act the goat that way or he’d get cut
up. He just smiled and said he was afraid he
was very much in love. The silly owl.”
And Jones expectorated fiercely into the gas
fireplace to conceal the fact that his eyes were full.
(Continued on next 'page.)


Does Your BacK
Ever Ache?
*Every picture
tells a story.”
Don’t make light of
a pain in the hack. It
means there is conges-
tion and inflammation
in the kidneys —that
the kidneys are
clogged and inactive,
can’t do their whole
duty of filtering the
blood. It means the
circulation of impure
blood throughout the
body, a weakening of
every nerve, muscle,
and vital organ.
Doan’s Kidney Pills
have a quick and
direct action on the
kidneys. They drive
out the poisons that
infest the blood,
cleanse and stimulate
the kidneys, regulate
tlie urine, cure backache, dizziness, and languor, and per-
manently heal the kidneys.
SYDNEY lAN CURED.
Mr. J. Livingstone, Ingleburn, near Liverpool, says: —“For years I suffered
from gravel. I had medical advice and underwent three operations in two years for
stone in the bladder, but I only got relief for a couple of months after each opera-
tion, and would soon be as bad as ever again. I got iittle rest, and did not know
what it was to get two hours’ sleep at a time. I was so bad with backache that I
would cry out with the pain, and to bend was agony. I simply could not do my work.
To add to my sufferings, my secretions were very frequent and high-colored. After
the best doctors failed to cure me, I did not think that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills would be able to cure me, but my wife kept on urging me to try them. At last
I did get them, and after taking one box I felt a little better ; after using the third
box I knew that I was on the road to recovery, and had great hopes of a perfect cure.
1 was not disappointed, for after eight boxes I was sound and well. The gravel and
backache were cured, my secretions were natural, and I slept like a baby, I am
quite cured and consider my cure a miracle. I spent a lot of money and was
tortured with operations, yet could not get well, and a few boxes of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, at the paltry cost of £l, cured me.”
Eight years later, Mr. Livingstone says: “The above is quite true—every
wor d_ an d I can now tell you that I’m still well. My cure proves that there’s
nothing as good as Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for the kidneys.”
Boan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure Inflamma-
tion of the Kidneys and Bladder, Pain or
Bull Ache in the Back, Joints and
Muscles; cure Gravel, Weak Heart,
Nervousness, and all Urinary Troubles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box
(six boxes 15/3), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
ď
Piles.
Cured After Years of Suffering.—
Proof that Doan’s Ointment
Will Cure Piles.
Piles rarely kill, but they cause constant
torture. This is especially true in the case of
those who-are. ever so slightly constipated.
Piles can he quickly and permanently cured
without pain, cutting, or detention from
business. This has been proved in thousands
of cases of both sexes and of all ages, and in
the very worst as well as in ordinary cases.
No one who has not suffered the tortures of
itching, painful and bleeding Piles can appre-
ciate for a moment the marvellous sense of
relief that follows the use of Doan’s Ointment.
Go at once and get a pot of this ointment; it
will end vour sufferings. .
Mrs. F. Flynn, Melbourne Cleaning and
Dyeing Co., 233 Darling Street, Balmain,
Sydney, says No one likes their health
troubles to be made public, but if knowledge
will be the means of saving other people years
of suffering, then 1 think it a duty to make a
public statement. For over twelve months I
suffered from protruding piles, the pain of this
terrible complaint prevented me from getting
proper rest at night, and it was a great
trouble to get about, and so I could not do
my work. I was really in a bad state, and
the pain nearly drove me mad. I cannot now
remember all the remedies I used ; I got
everything I heard about, but it was only
waste of time, for they did not even give me
ease. When at my worst I commenced using
Doan’s Ointment, I got immediate relief, and
one pot cured me. I have had time to test
my cure, it is six months since I used the
Ointment, and I have had no signs of Ihe
ailment since. I earnestly recommend all
sufferers to try this wonderful Ointment,”
When we say that Doan’s Ointment will
cure piles, we mean exactly what we say,
nothing more or less, and it is because of the
thousands who have been cured that we are
able to say this. ' The above is one instance ;
we have similar testimony from every town
in Australia. Doan’s Ointment is softtiiy all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot,
or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
“By G —, Fluter, didn’t you notice I was
smoking in the office ? ” he resumed, and surrep-
titiously mopped his eyes with his handkerchief
under the pretence of wiping his mouth. The
Traffic Clerk nodded.
“ Go on,” he said gently.
“ Well, Lennox overshot the platform a bit,
and that brought the carriages up to the / south
end of the platform. She was standing at the
north end, and he was on the back platform of
the middle carriage. She waved her hand to
him as he went by, and the silly goat turned his
back to the front of the train, and leaned out,
doting on the sight of her, you know. Lennox
stopped with a couple of bumps, and poor Smith,
in a hurry to get to her, stepped off with his face
towards the van. He staggered, spun round, and
fell down between the carriages and the platform.
The train was just stopping. I made one blanky
rush to get hold of him and drag him clear, and
she rushed in front, getting in the damned road.
He was right across the dashed rail, and I bel-
lowed to him like Hell to roll. But he was para-
lysed with blanky terror. His eyes—l’ll never
forget them. The front wheel of the next car-
riage Was just turning the last half turn, and as it
came against him she shrieked. It rose up,
passed over him, and came down on the other
side with a bump, still.
“She flung her hands up. ‘A miracle, a
miracle ! ’ she screamed*
“ I collared her round the waist and carried her
into the ladies’ waiting room. ‘ Stay there,
please, till we get him out,’ I said, pushing her
into a chair.
“ ‘ Yes, yes,’ she gasped ; ‘ bring him here and
I’ll soon bring him round. Oh, Mr. Jones,
wasn’t God good to make the wheel of the Car-
riage rise over him like that ? Get him out
quickly, in case the train moves, Mr. Jones.’
“ Lord, it broke me up. I knew what that
sort of blanky miracle meant. I went out. They
were all chattering round the place like a garden
of monkeys. I spragged the wheels, unhooked
the carriages, and told Lennox to haul clear. We
lifted the end of.the car with a blanky screwjack,
and got him out. Stone dead, of course. Back-
bone, breastbone, ribs, everything smashed, and
his clothes not even cut, and not an abrasion on
his body except where a rib point jagged through.
You know—-the cushion business over again, and
a man’s body for the cushion.”
And Jones sobbed. He had sobbed each time
he swore. The Traffic Clerk tapped softly on the
table with his pen-handle, and said nothing,
thinking of the woman who had said God was
good.
“Well, she had to be told,” Jones went on.
“ I left her with her dead husband, and got the
train coupled up, and blocked her on. Two
blokes were banging at the window, howling for
blanky tickets.” Jones wept again as he said
“ blanky. ” “ ‘ Are you going to start the train
without giving us tickets ? ’ they yelled. I cursed
them, and flung the tickets down, and swept the
money: into the till. They waited for the change.
I gave it to them, and I don’t know whether it was
right or not, and I blanky well don’t care.”
Jones wiped his eyes as he said “blanky.”
‘ ‘ Then the train got away, and I went in to try
and get that woman out. She wouldn t come
out ; so I left her and wired you.”
“ A horrible experience,” said the Traffic
Clerk. “ You’d better take a day off.”
“ Yes, it was horrible—blanky horrible. No,
I must go back. I forgot to make out yesterday’s
ticket return,' and old Kelly won’t notice it, and
then Forsyth ’ll be wiring. I could stand it all
but that woman. She breaks me up.”
And Jones rose wearily, resumed his hat, and
lurched out, back to Braeside to make out his
ticket return. It was all in the day’s work. As
he went he looked drearily at the landscape, and
said “ blanky. ” •
‘ - C. A. Jeffries.
An Idyl.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS a matter beyond dispute, it must be
conceded that Susie’s features were a
misfit, and her expression about as-hope-
ful as an appeal against the decision of six Judges.
Anyone with a mahl stick and a mud wall could
mould a better figure than Susie had ; but Susie’s
eye which was cast, and her eye which was merely
eye, raked Susie’s horizon fore and aft, searching
unwearyingly for love.
Rosie sat at the next bail to Susie, and Rosie’s
face, seen under her pink sunbonnet, was like an
apple orchard in first blush. Also, the way Rosie
supported her bucket between her knees, with a
suggestion of ankle and a coquettish tilt to show
the play of plump wrists, might almost be con-
strued by sombre Susie as ostentatiously throwing
down a full hand of trumps before one who held
the sixes and sevens of the wrong color.
But Susie was of materially less consequence
to Rosie than the cow whose milk she forced
from her, - especially as lately Ike, who should
have been feeding the pigs at this hour, had taken
to hitching his lengthy dark person against the
cow bail, and attaching his lengthy dark eyes to
the revealed bit of stocking.
** Wisht you’d tear a hole in them things some
day,” Srlsie heard Ike say one afternoon as he
held up the wooden structure which restrains the
aspirations of the cow, and Susie saw Rosie wave
her eyelashes at him in a bewildering way.
Susie hadn’t eyelashes worth a coin gone out of
currency, but she was strong on the flesh just
below her neckband. On these warm, enervating
days Ike’s lengthy, droopy black eyes had a lan-
guid limpidity which, though it never strayed past
Rosie, enveloped Susie like the warm spicy steam
of a vapor bath.
Susie’s eye, which was merely eye, was soft and
dewy these days when the rakish old sun clasped
thq earth in a w'arm embrace, and the afternoon
that she turned in the ne»k of her blouse Ike’s
eye strayed beyond Rosie’s bit of stocking.
JTidden beneath her tucks was Susie’s only
supported claim to consideration, for there the
flesh was pink and firm, and deep with a depth
which suggested profundity of emotion.
Ike gazed at Ibis revealed warmth, looking like
the concentrated petals of a pink camellia, and
coincidently with its first revelation he took up his
stand at the flank of Susie’s milker.
And about that time Susie took to wearing a
mauve sun hat tied down with lace strings, and
where the gossamer fluttered against the little bit
of flesh, a delightful tracery danced a devil’s dance
among the pink camellias.
Ike, for all his tendency to neglect feeding the
pigs, was an appreciative soul !
That afternoon, as Ike chivalrously assisted
Susie with the leg-rope, his lips got within signal-
ling distance of her ear, and Susie, with a beet-
root red suffusing her misfit features, and the rosy
glow of a blushing sky on her adorable bit of
flesh, answered “ To-night.”
The next morning Ike supported Rosie’s bail,
and, detecting a small hole in the ankle of her
stocking, told her savagely to go home and
mend it.
Ike and Rosie were married at the end of the
summer, and Susie went on milking, but the cow
never mentioned a word.
MARY LEITH.
Judge Smith.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE was a youth whose name was
I Smith,
He lived in Nosuch village
(A place you’re unacquainted with)
And loathed the work of tillage.
His Christian name, of course, was John,
And, though he pleased the charmers,
It seemed that John could not get on
Among the Nosuch farmers.
He much despised his lowly lot.
And was not loth to show it;
But, though he envied Burns, did not
Aspire to be a poet !
It was his wish to be a wit,
A punster and a jester,
And oft with gibe and hit and skit
The local press he’d pester.
Of puns he perpetrated some
Would make George Lauri shiver !
His witticisms seemed to come
Directly from the liver !
Some people thought him quite insane,
And madder than a hatter ;
In fact, to call his jokes inane
Would simply be to flatter !
Sincerely I regret to say
He joked so much at random
The local press down Nosuch way
Declared they could not stand him.
And yet John Smith did not despair !
Possessed of much persistence
He saw, though Fortune seemed unfair,
The daylight in the distance !
John Smith, when eighteen years of age,
Was present at the. Session,
And then determined to engage
In law as a profession.
He put aside the gibe and jest
For Statute Law and Common,
And Equity, and all the rest;
B >th English law and Roman !
He grew respected near and far,
Nor were his studies slighted,
And when they called him to the Bar
All Nosuch was delighted !
From small to large his practice grew,
His reputation gaining,
And all the best attorneys knew
John Smith was worth retaining !
He grew quite rich, for, so I learn,
His income was enormous.
How large, his Income-tax Return
I fear would not inform us!
And day by day he graver grew,
No jeu cVesprit he uttered.
John Smith, K.C., most clearly knew
Which side his bread was buttered !
But don’t suppose he’d burned his jests
Or lost them, or mislaid them.
He kept them all in brass-bound chests
As fresh as when he made them !
When he got into Parliament
He made his foes determine
They’d feel far safer were he sent
To wear the legal ermine !
And that’s how Smith became a judge,
By partisan devotion,
And no man said he could begrudge
The well-deserved promotion !
When safely seated, firm and fast,
Where no man dare assail him,
His Honor felt with joy, at last.
His jests might well avail him !
And now, when he trots out a joke,
The lawyers yell with laughter,
The bobbies seem inclined to choke,
And rattle roof and rafter !
The witnesses all smile aloud,
The pris’ner grins with pleasure !
As for the public, all the crowd
Gulfaws in ample measure !
Attendant pressmen (faithful tribe !)
Must listen to these vapors ;
Take ample note of every gibe,
And print it in their papers !
Oh, there are jokes that could not draw
A smile of even pity,
Which from the Bench, in Courts of Law,
Are deemed extremely witty !
Of course, this tale of Judge John Smith
(Let not the truth be fractured !) ■
Is just an airy fairy myth
Which I have, manufactured !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


“ I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
đ
had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the question
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order.”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poisons and im-
purities which, are quickly absorbed into the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S.A. ]
ď
And
POST
Artistic
đ
d
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
•f our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at Gd. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our os. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
ofour cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with anv other firm
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
Silver Pencil
for your Pocket,
ď
. ,
We always feel quite safe in recom-
mending this pencil, because it is made for
solid service—the telescopic action being
particularly strong a?id not likely to fail
you at a critical moment.
In solid silver cases, various designs, of
which we illustrate one, price os, 6d.— or in
9-ct gold 255. post free.
This would make a very nice present
for a gentleman, or he might prefer a
fountain pen, and of these we have a very
large stock.
They vary in price, according to the
grade, and we can supply one with an
iridium pointed nib, price 4s. 6d. ; or a
better grade fitted with 14-ct. gold nib,
price 6s. 6d.; 7s. Cd. ; Bs. 6d. ; complete
with filler, in cardboard case.
A similar pen with 14-ct. gold nib and
gold bands will cost 10s. in a cardboard
case, or in neat plush lined case, 12s. 6d.
With heavier solid gold mountings,
richly chased, complete with filler and in-
structions, 14-ct. gold nib, in a cardboard
case, 15s. ; or in Morocco, velvet lined
case, 17s. 6d.
In ordering atountain pen, please send
the pen nib that you are accustomed to use,
and we will select one to match it as near
as possible.
WHAT ABOUT MEDALS FOR
SCHOOL PRIZES ?
We can supply Solid Silver
Medals,of pretty design at
25., 2s. 6d. ; or with gold
shield in centre, 3s.
Ask for the “ A. & 0.” catalogue, which
contains other articles suitable for present-
ation purposes.
ANGUS AND COOTE,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
“ The Store Where Quality Counts,” .
EORGE STREET. Corner Royal Arcade, SYDNEY.
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
AN INTERESTING
w^edv Y £ U n° MEN ’ ? iving instructions for the
Si r f / HV r and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
Berve-power and vitality. Full directions for B elf-£Lt.
»Mit with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
SEOT S FREF h on h APPT S i fc n Iir h T° P x? hetore readi,, £ fch >B hook.
BOTANIff™wmmL CA^ ON -. Address, SECRETARY,
street Sydney Bl *™™’ ViCkona 'Chambers, Elizabeth-
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like*a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
cind is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Cheeks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
-ISs*
Convincing: Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
đ
d
MIDY
rilHJfi LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted.
ď
đ
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prizes, such as Musical
Instruments, Silver Watches and Chains. Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Solid Goiu Rmj?s,
J aweilery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds.
All you have to do is to send us your Name ano Address, ;.nd
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable -Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette,,C'hris Hthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3a per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail anv present
you may select from our graud list.
We J tr H, st I 0 may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of eii-
JJS them ridiculously eas , for they are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
Flarists* £B3(f Soppin 00.
d
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
d
Do You Know
that more than half the sickness in the world, especially of
women, is caused by constipation? It -can be oreventpd if
BEECHAM’S PILLS are taken whenever nature calls for
assistance. Comfort and happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
THE HANDY HOME REMEDY.
There’s no secret about the value of Beecham’s Pills as a
family medicine. Thousands of families always keep a box
handy and it is the first resort in case of sickness appearing,
being the stitch in time” which prevents further trouble, and
P> 0 . sei ’ ious ness - If you have not got a box of
IjECPIAM S PILLS in the house, get one now, you never know
how soon it may be needed. A dose taken when ailments arise
will socin right the wrong and restore you to health and vigour.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price Hh (56 phis) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Oh ft ymhittii
* /
5S*!
'Wfliimini'H'"
đ
Cut this out
and send it
to us and we
will send
you free,
paid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition of
our splendid, invaluable and standard illustrated
Medical Work, which acknowledged medical treatise
should be read by every adalt.
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
is an up-to-date appliance, whereby electricity in a
gentle and continuous current saturates every nerve,
muscle, fibre and organ of the human system. It
absolutely cures all cases of Nervous Disorders,
Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney
and Stomach I roubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and
that tired feeling.
We don t ask anyone to take ckances on our invention.
s ours, all you lose is your time; all we ask is, give us security that
you can have our appliances, and
If we fail the loss
you will pay, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly. You don’t have to nav
till you are cured. We could not do this if our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that
t gives a strong current, and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from grateful
patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay no longer
Write at once. We can help you. 3 <
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
• • FOR ■ ■
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedv
sent ov mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTV-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolven
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the followin'?
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear *
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, ’£6.
Sale Price £3 16 fl
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks No 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £B lss. Sale Price £5 A «
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 1« a
5 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price .ilo 10s
Sale price .. .... .. '£sl6 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excel lent stock.
With cartridge machine and cleaners complete
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. £2 16 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. £0 13 9
Ma A chines e and b ae e an R ers nS COmplete ' Cartridge
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or' Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CQ.
,nt ,i 7 ersfor / U ' ls rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia. F
Send for,illustrated Catalogue— posted free.
men
and
Women
Dr. John Martin, M.D. * O .
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
u „ Ma V be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily. y er%
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure.”
May be had from Geo. Robertson »nd ~u
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply* to
Sriwn Svo,”wer 500 Rresori%«onlfSO l C»^terafl'nd i t©3 »®2 >^ffea
the disease <^^w^Women P ' t^i^ti^ySrel^S^w^n^n«d-I Vb a r Je !^“
to the putyic. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for "S, • ed , mec * lc ?* books advertised free
d
ď
medical work FREE on “pplicallfoml° Australian'Press on Dr. Martin and his
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d fstamos). -' S P ecial ” Ailments , ?
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “
Please mention this paper when writing.
E "”'° y 151 Ellzabeth-st.
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
f


Players of Oricket,
NOTE !
WHITE CANVAS BOOTS, White
Soles, 7/6 pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, White
Soles (a Special Shoe for Matting
Wicket), 6/- pair.
WHITE CANVAS SHOES, Black
Soles, First Quality, 5/- pair.
WHITE, BROWN, of BLACK
CANVAS SHOES, Champion
Brand, 3/3 pair.
See Display in Window.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 GEORGE STREET, BVDNEV,
Catalogues Posted Free on request.
a
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER BIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART— StHotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
đ
606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
, And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
COPPER^SILVER.
d
For Locating' MINES>— —
LOST TREASURE&e.
The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet, 2 # tamps.
Etfw. NORTON, 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
ď
đ
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENULAND.
PAM PA’
POCKET
are the
BEST.
KNj ves
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by G KIM AULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB.
ETTES. Bald by all Chemists.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
THE WORLD KNOWS
9
AS
“ The Beverage that Benefits-”
A PURE SPIRIT.
A Reinvig'orating' Cordial.
Jv
i®
tom
Correspondence Invited.
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
60 CLAREIMCE-ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MINING MACHINERY, ENGINES and BOILERS,
BLOWING and EXHAUST FANS
FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Mine Ventilation, Timber Drying, Forced
Draft, Planing Mills, Cupolas, Forges,
Etc., Etc.
MARSHALL’S.
B . L. SCRUITON & CO.»
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
HAVE IN STOCK— SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys— Cast, W.L, Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &e., Iron — Bar, Rod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe and
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. Correspondence Invited.
FOR COAL and ORE WASHING
And All Rough Service Drainage
THE PULSOMETER STEAM PUMP
exactly fulfils the requirements. It will, without the slightest injury to any of its parts, handle over and over again
water heavily charged with coal dust, fine coal or sediment, which would soon destroy most other forms of pumping
apparatus. It requires no engine, belt, oil, packing, or special foundation ; only a steam pipe from boiler, that s all.
Operates as well suspended as stationary, and may be raised or lowered as occasion demands without interiup ing
its work The exhaust steam passing off with the outflow makes the PULSOMETER particularly well aaap
for draining flooded galleries, levels, mine shafts, and for all underground pumping. We do not believe there is any
other form of apparatus so well adapted to the rough service, low-lift pumping requirements about a mine, as e
PULSOMETER* Write for free, illustrated, descriptive catalogue telling all about them.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY ; 486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
d
