

IDE-W-A-lEt/S
SIXTY YEARS’
REPUTATION.
■WHISKY.
R. Or. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Syaney,
—FOR —
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining- Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and. SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
HOBART,
g£ y •&?;-
fiadley’s Orient Hotel.
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
belt Inc f
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Gibson, Battle & Go., 7 bent st., Sydney,
SOLE AGENTS for KIRCHNER’S
WOODWORKING MACHINERY
FOR EVERY PURPOSE. Send for Illustrated Descriptive Lists.
m
sr
~Q
jm
\
"Take it back,
I must have -
MUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBBS SAFES
HR THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
m
m
m'%
16
11
;
*
Economy in Current.
Equality op Light.
THE
EDISON I SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Dep6t:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
all,
tL
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
COLDSBROUGH, MORT& CO.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
goneral Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engines to
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
m
(-JK'-
BECKS LAGER
As supplied to the ‘P. & O.’ & ‘N.D.L,’ Steamers
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO.. BREMEN, GERMANY.
Wunderlich
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
Regd.
O
Trade Mark.
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &c. f &c
(Wholesale and Retail).
I
k
t
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON SPA. Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
GOLLIU & 00., Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1410.]
[Thursday, February 21, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREACH ST
SYDNEY.
Upton Sinclair, King Midas : a novel, 3s (id, post 6d.
Dick see and Plain, Office Organisation, illus., 6s, post 6d.
Krauz, A.B.C. of Motoring, illus., 6s, post Od.
Stevenson, Billiards ; Top of Table Game, Is 3d, post 3d.
Brnnetiere, Honord de Balzac, 7s (id, post 6d.
Hazell’s Annual, 1007, cloth 4s, postage 3d.
Who's Who, 1907, cloth, now 12s, postage is.
Schofield, The Home Life in Order, 4s, postage 6d.
Municipal Engineers’ Specification : a Year Book for
Municipal Engineers, illus., 3s 6d, post Is (ki.
Mark Twain, The 30,000 Dollar Bequest, 6s, post Cd.
Ballard, Theontonism True, Os, post 6d.
Penrose’s Pictorial Annual, The Process Year Book for
190 G-7, finely illus., 7s Gd. postage Is 6d.
San Carolo and Daniel, Voice Development.
Harwood, New Creations in Plant Life ; Life and Work
of Luther Burbank, Bus., Us, post Bd.
Harwood, The New Earth : Triumphs of Modern Agricul-
ture in America, illus., 9s, post Bd.
Lock, Variation, Heredity and Evolution, 9s, post Bd.
r T'HE BOOK FELLOW, an Australasian weekly maga*
* zinc, published every Thursday, price 3d. 13s. a
year post-free. Poetry, stories, reviews, pictures, prize
competitions. Specimen copy free from A. G. Stephens,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung.
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections ,of the
voice and throat."
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL. JUJUBES
Unlike Oough Medicines, do not cause gastric discomfort or digestive derangement. *
“ Thk Practitioner ” says :—“ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and similar ailments.”
Solti by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d.
The RED PAGE
THE RUBAIYAT OF AUSTRALIA
There are, it appears, thirty-nine Omars in
Australia, most of them in Victoria; and every
single one of them has written at least one good
quatrain. One of the Omars was a Bush Dead-
beat, another a Shearer, another a Swagman,
another a Fruitgrower, and three of them were
Omar Cowmen. There was an Old Man Kyabram,
who did some cheerful “ ruminyatting”; an Omar
Cassandra, and a Fitzgerald who produced a
Rubaiyat of Jud.
In selecting the winner it was necessary to keep
sternly in view the published conditions of the
competition. The sort of parody asked.for by
the “Red Page” was a “ smse-rendering,” which
was expressly defined as a parody utilising not
only the original writer’s diction and style, but
following “a train of thought precisely along the
lines that he would have pursued from the given
premises.” And, in addition, the parody had to
be Australian in sentiment. The Rubaiyat that
most nearly fulfilled the conditions laid down was
written by Fred Davison (Melb.); but its defec-
tive rhyming absolutely excluded it as a Rubai-
yat. Had Davison conformed strictly to the
model of the Fitzgerald quatrain he might have
been the Australian Omar. He passes out,
though here is his effort: —
The same slackness of rhyme throws out on the
heap John Sirlow’s Rubaiyat (Melb.)i which told
us this
The Persian muses in his garden, while
“E.W.D.” (Melb.) tells a dramatic story. His
dying sundowner is, however, excellently pictured.
And that up-turned Tin Dish we Heavens call
Seems to shriek out “You’re Euchred ” till one’s
gall
Gets raised—you’d like to Bash its Brazen Face :
Its Blanky Troubles if one lives at all !
The Grow no question makes of Eyes and Nose,
But here or there as strikes its Fancy goes,
And though a Toss-up which ’twill peck at first
He Knows about it all, He Knows, HE KNOWS.
The Moving Figure writhes and then lies still,
Moves nevermore, nor all thy Power or Skill
Can lure it back again to toe the Line
Of Life—once Killed there’s nothing left to Kill.
Thomas Porter (M.L.) gets nearer the real
philosophy; but his Rubaiyat is spoiled by weak
quatrains. Here are his best: —
O, Thou who didst with Centipede and Snake
And Bull-ant stock the bush and therewith make
Weak Mortal Man to Swear, whereby his Soul
Is blackened, Man’s forgiveness give and take.
The pulling Bullocks pull, and having pulled,
Pull on; not all thy Epigrams well-culled
Can lure them into walking a Straight Line,
Nor into decent Speed will they be gulled.
We, too, are Errant Bullocks, and would keep
To no hard Roadway, but would always reap
The Summer Herbage in some Gully cool—
But that the Whiplash from some Hand might
leap.
The most humorous of the batch is The Rubaiyat
of Jud, by “Dico” (Vic.). Unfortunately, it is
the Rubaiyat of Melbourne, not of Australia ; and
Jud is too insignificant a thing to hang a Rubaiyat
upon. He must manage with a ti-tree halo.
“ Dico’s” humor justifies quotation in full.
“•T.S.” begins magnificently with a brilliant
simile ; but he staggers away and dies miserably
in the bush.
Three Sins, all other Moral Codes are lies :
Don’t Scab, Turn down Your Mate, or Drink
with Flies.
Inconspicuously excellent are Mick O’Maher s
and “ Blighter’s ” efforts. “Ande” gives us the
Rubaiyat of the Bush Pub.
It might have been predicted that the Austra-
Han Tentmaker would turn out to be a swagman ;
but Leontine Scott (Vic.) is the only competitor
who recognises the possibilities Of the subject.
Out of his twelve quatrains these are worth re-
printing : —
“ coming from Tweed River, is
naturally more technical.
The poet prophesied by Furnley Maurice
(R.P. 7/2/’07), who will publicly return thanks
for a nice warm cup of tea or a load of fire-
wood, was anticipated (writes “N.L.”) by one
who used to carry his verses from door to door,
like Homer, in Melbourne suburbs up to a few
years ago. As a rule, the “ poetry ” was in
manuscript, but occasionally profits justified his
getting it printed in sheet form, and adding a list
of his benefactors—Mrs. Smith, who presented a
hat and a pair of boots ; Mrs. Jones, a dozen eggs
and some kind advice; Mr. Wilkinson, much
sympathy and a leg of mutton, and so on. These
presents were made in addition to payment for the
verses on a sliding scale. Thanks sometimes took
the form of a poem to “ Mr. Robinson, who helped
me when I was in distress.” In another MS. copy,
of course, Brown’s name could be substituted for
Robinson’s, and each dedication was good enough
for a little more financial help from those worthies.
Sometimes the poet had a piece of verse in the
“ Missing Friends” column of the dailies, inform-
ing patrons that he was ill, and that Providence
would surely reward anyone who came and helped
him at this juncture. This sort of thing must
have paid, as the advertisements appeared quite
frequently. The poet is dead, but his mantle
does not appear to have fallen on anyone. His
career seems to indicate that if picturesque young
poets travelled on similar lines poetry could be
made to pay nearly as well as dairy-farming. A;.
According to The Athenceum (Bond.), “ Austra-
lia has as yet not done justice to herself in
poetry.” In its review of the recent Australian
Anthology, the kindly old weekly finds that our
feeling for wild life and wild nature comes, ‘‘not
with an inspiration of its own, but second hand-
through Thomas Moore and Mrs. Hemans in the
earlier pages, through Mr. Swinburne in many of
the best of the later pages.” . . . ‘‘How is it that
these open-air people have no muscles in their
verse ? They are constantly reminding us of the
more feminine side of Tennyson, and, if they echo
Browning, turn most naturally to ‘Evelyn Hope
for a model.” The feminine side of Tennyson,
and Mrs. Hemans 1
“Flagwagger” insists on writing an Australian
national song; and taking the advice humbly
tendered him L (R.P., 15/11/’0C) desperately tries
again.
“This anthem,” he observes, “ought to meet
the case. It doesn’t advance, or awake, or arise,
but attends strictly to business right through. It
only needs to be set to music—none of your
imported music, with trills and frills and classical
absurdities, but just a plain brown tune.”
“Agnostic” also impeni ten tly forwards a national
song, chiefly Hurrah! and Advance 1 Some day,
when we n re not feeling so tired, we might
inaugurate a competition for a national song;
but, in the meantime, patriotic poets might be
thinking up some good rhymes for Australia.
There is no hurry. It will probably be a pretty
long meantime.
THE RUBAIYAT OF AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wake, for the Austral Land is in its Prime,
Its Harvests ripen in the glad Sprint}-Time,
The red Blood courses swiftly through the Veins,
And every Poet turns his Thoughts to Rhyme.
Dreaming beneath the radiant Summer Sun,
I heard a Voice that cried — “ Ho, everyone.
Come, sound your Country's Praise on every Hand,
Before the short-lived Span of Life be done! ”
Last Year, indeed, is gone with all its Foes,
And all the Years before , where No-one knows,
But still the Mother Earth her Treasure yields,
And still the Balance Sheet an Increase shows.
Come, sow your Seed and reap the golden Wheat,
The rich Response of Last Year now repeat;
The Drought is past, and past the One-Time Gloom,
The Present and the Future both seem sweet.
And look —a thousand Ounces of pure Gold,
From out Earth's Bosom plucked by Miners bold:
What need to roam afar to seek for Wealth
When here one can such Richness find and hold f
How Sweet to Travel far Abroad, think Some;
Others think ever of the Time to come
When then shall save enough to leave our Shores *
But ask Why They Return—and They are Dumb.
Lo, some we loved, the Greatest and the Best,
Have swelled Ihe “ Stinking Fish ” Cry with much
Zest,
But since Prosperity has smiled Once More,
They come back to Australia with the Rest.
Myself, ichen young, did eagerly frequent
Parliament House and heard great Argument
On Income Tax and Land Tax and what not—
Yet never came out wiser than I went.
But leave them all to wrangle and with me
Behold the good Works of the Deity,
The fair green Fields and swelling Hills around,
The Golden Fragrance of the Wattle Tree.
Alas, that Spring should ever leave our Land,
That Men so soon grow old —a Hoary Band —
But still the Land remains to cheer anew
The Hearts of all the Young, who Understand.
Melb.
REMINOTON.
Write ! for the Land its Future does not Know—
The Whitening Path doth Neighb’ring Blackness
show
(Perhaps on Either Side a Pit is hid)
But to its Destined End it Needs Must Go.
The Winds from out The Vastness howl its Fate
In Language never learned until Too Late ;
But if The Message was revealed, The Land
Gould not a Finger of its Doom escape.
The Stars swing on, nor Turn Aside nor Stay,
Though Fowl-like on the earth Man Struts his
Day
And Crows his Wishes to the Cause of Things—
And as The Great so is The Small alway :
For as the Stars Change Not their Course nor
Pause, •
True to Unending Unbeginning Laws,
So just as Surely do the Lesser Things
Unheeding pass to Last Effect from Cause.
For Land and Path and Pit and End wbre born
In Linked fate at far Creation’s Dawn,
When Yesterday, To-Morrow and To-Day
Were Planned and Known from Even until Morn.
And yet the Crowing doubtless helps the Bird ;
The Noise he makes —it by Himself is Heard ;
And, being heard, works out its Certain End—
Although The Universe Hears Not a word.
This Morning’s Orb is but Last Evening’s Sun ;
’Tis Nothing New —can Nothing Do not Done :
So is Australia in the Plan of Things—
The Race she Runs has been Already Run.
The Drover drives In Vain the dusty Sheep,
Tire Miner strives for Naught his Gold to keep—
And all the laird, from Rouseabout to Boss,
The Weary Circle treads with Wand’ring Feet.
’Tis only the Eternal Fool who Tries —
The Waves of Time bring all things to the Wise
Who take their Ease along the shores of Life :
So to the Loafer often falls the Prize.
This Southern Land whose Day has .Tust Begun
Will Work and Sweat till sets its little sun,
Then Pass Away, a Used-up Link between
The Sleeping Peoples and the Time to Come.
They say the Mongol and the Monkey keep
Grim watch upon our land with intent deep,
While Cole, the Book Arcadian —an old ass —
Rubs trait’rous hands—Jmt we are fast asleep !
The world no feature makes of our Yes-No;
Our worst foes are ourselves—the Mikado
’Neath Fuji San —lie watches all our ways.
He knows about it all—he knows —HE K.NOWS !
“White Fang’’ and “W.II.D.” both fail by
penning exhortation, not philosophy. Their
warnings are needed, but not in a Rubaiyat.
“ White Fang ” (Melb.), instead of sitting by ’the
Ah, train the Men —what boots it to repeat
How Time is slipping underneath our Feet,
Anglo-Alliance and the Powerful,
What use are they against a Yellow Fleet?'
How long, how long in definite Pursuit
Of Cricket, Football, Anti-Sosh Dispute?
Better to purchase Guns and Rifle-Balls,
And teach our young Australians how to shoot.
The Grape-shot can with Logic absolute
The wily Yellow Japanese confute —
The subtle Alchemist that in a Trice
Can make an end and settle the dispute.
And that old Mother-Land to which we pray,
To which we our Allegiance owe—and pay,
Lift not thy Hands to It for help, for It
Is impotent thousands of Miles away.
“ W.H.D.” (Perth) disguises his exhortation in
irony, and Omar was too philosophical to be
always ironical.
Wake ! for the Morning Paper let us Call,
And on the Sporting Column let us Fall —
It matters not what Rumors shake the World
If we have drawn a Prize from Tattersall.
Come, leave the Gate, nor list to Them who Say
The Monkey may upon our Garden Prey :
The Lion’s Skin will surely him Affright,
E’en though the Lion’s Voice be but a Bray.
What though we Reap the Harvest that we Sow,
And cannot point a Gun against the Foe :
Yet ask us Records, Pedigrees, and Times,
We Know about Them all—WE Know—WE
KNOW!
O Thou, who dost with bold and bristling Chin,
Call every blessed Thing we do a Sin,
Thou wilt not with vague Allegations round
Enmesh me, and impute my Nose to Gin.
Why, all the Saints and Sages, who discuss’d
The Seven Sins so whirlingly, are thrust
Like dead-beat Boozers forth; they may be
crowned
With Ti-tree, but their Ears are in the Dust.
Think, in this gloomy Caravanserai,
Whose Doorways are Port Melbourne and Foots-
cray,
How Torrey, Booth, and Dowie for a while
Filled gaping Purses, and then went away.
Old Booth, indeed, is gone with all his Nose,
And sank his hard-cadged Wealth where no one
knows,
But still the Gull sings Praises to the Wren,
And still the Liquor from the Beer-pump flows.
So leave the Juds to bellow drearily,
And take Old Ladies home to Sunday Tea,
With some bright Tart on breezy Mount or Sea
Make Sport of those who promised H—l to Thee.
While the Girls bring us rosy Hours of Bliss,
Don’t waste the Time (it may be Sin to kiss);
But when the Judder, with his gloomy Phiz,
Draws up to Thee, —take aim, and do not miss.
Awake ! for on your Gum lree tall and white,
The Kookaburra laughs to scorn the Night:
And Sol, Heav’n’s Swagman, lighting his first
pipe,
With careless Match has set the Bush alight.
Comes the New Year, Old Vices and Desires
Are thrown on Resolution’s new-lit Fires ;
But sweetest Grass on Burnt Earth grows. And
Lo !
Our Sudden Virtue ere ’tis Easter tires.
Oh, Hark to me, nor heed the foolish Wise-
Three things there are which all White Men de-
spise—
I sauntered to a Shanty not too gay
Where Drinks are always served both Night and
Day ; '
Here Trav’ler after Trav’ler, with his Drurn,_
Stopped for his destined Drunk and went his Way.
Old Bung no notice takes of These or Those,
But here and there as sign the Drinkers goes,
And anything that’s mentioned in the Bar
He knows about it all —He knows —Hi? knows.
The Winter far has gone w.tli all its Snows.
And all the Creeks and Danis where no one knows ;
But still the Cocky feeds his little Flock
And still about his Fortune bravely blows.
Some for the Profits of the Tote, and some
Sigh for the Prize in TattersalPs to come.
Ah, spend the Cash and let the Gee Gee go ;
You get good measure for a modest Thrum !
The Mining Float's men set their Hearts upon
Make brave beginnings ever ; and anon
The Reef they hunted underneath Earth’s Breast
For half-a-mile is Barren or is Gone.
Ah, lately by the road to Yargoneer,
While trudging thro’ the Dust, a tramp drew
near ;
He dipt a Pannikin within a Can
And hade me taste of it; and It was Beer.
I sometimes think that never flows so red
The Nose as where Beer-Arguments are sped ;
That oft each Tavern sees some village Squires
Upon his Foeman put a Lovely Head.
Yes, follow my advice, and leave the Lot
•Of Band of Hope or Temperance folk forgot:
The Reverend Henry Worrall at the Bar,
Or Judkins crowned with Tea leaves—heed them
not.
And when Myself with halting foot shall pass,
Bearing my Swag along the Track, alas !
Should I on thirsty Errand reach the spot
Where you make one—fill up a Long Beer glass !
The Shearer’s Rubaiyat is supplied by
“M.E.F.”; while three competitors have shown
us Omar, the Cow-Man, “ Yttik ” (Meib.), who
is doubtless Kitty seen from the udder end of the
cow, produces a clever piece of work, from which
we omit the weaker quatrains :
Wake and prepare to meet the Brindled Cow ;
’Tis time to bring Her to the Milk Bails now,
And though your heavy Eyes are dull with Sleep,
You’ll simply have to open Them somehow.
How Sweet to drink is fresh warm Milk, think
some ;
Others think fondly of the Cheese to come.
Ah ! if they had to struggle with the Brutes,
They’d leave off wanting Milk and take to Rum.
The Cow no Question makes of Ayes or Noes,
But near or far as strikes her Fancy goes,
But He who has to seek the Beggar out . .
He knows about it all—He knows —HE KIN OY S
The moving Fingers squeeze, and having squeezed
Full every Drop that can be outward teazed,
The wily Cow then plants her Foot well in 1
And if She overturns the Lot seems Pleased.
Oh, Thou who didst with Dairy and with Cow
Surround me till I hate the name, I vow,
Thou, wilt not with Misfortune hedge me in
Nor e’en a mod’rate share of Cash allow.
And when Thyself with fjhiningFoot shall stray
Among the Souls of Men who’ye passed away,
And if Thy joyous Search should be for me
Thou’lt find me surely in the Milky Way !
The moving Fingers deftly seize the Teat
And charm the Lovely Fluid out of it.
Ah ! some will Tug and some will Swear, but all
Their Blasphemy won’t win a Little Bit!
0 ! could we dairymen with Fate conspire
To change the sorry Scheme of Things entire,
We would breed only Heifers from the Cow,
And grow Paspalum on the (you know) Mire.
The worldly Hope I’ve set my heart upon
Is Grass Enough to feed the cattle on,
And Fame I dream of, if I dream at all,
Is lo ! a Cow with good Escutcheon !
Bail up ! my Beauty, Fill the Pail that clears
Us all of Poverty in future years.
To-morrow ! why to-morrow in my herd
Perhaps there’ll be but Redwater and Steers !
What matters, here, a Watson or a Reid ?
And Johnson’s win o’er Squires can’t hurt my
breed ;
Full-bellied with Corn-beef I fall asleep,
My trust in God and Good Paspalum Seed.
The Fruit-Grower’s Rubaiyat is supplied by
“N.L.” (Vic.). Unfortunately, one weak qua-
train, omitted here, spoils its excellent chances.
Its originality gives it high place, and the philo-
sophy of Omar of Rodney is delightfully Fitz-
geraldian.
Wake ! for the Sun’s bright Chisel has releas d
The Planks with which Night hid the tinted
Feast,
And in fair rows of Sold entinged withKed
Dawn’s ripened Apricots enrich the East.
Before the glitt’ring Blade had broken through
A Voice beseeehed —“Come, rouse out and turn to!
We’ve many Cases to send cityward,
And Time and Trains wait not for me or you.”
I[ sometimes wonder if we all and each
rlave better Destiny than any Peach ; . %
backed to be jostled in this worldly Case :
L’he hardest triumph—yet Destruction reach!
With me adown some long Tomato row, 3
Where wilted Green ones with the Ripen’d grow ;
for some, like Souls, are blocked from Fortune’s
warmth, * . ‘
Mid ne’er, or but in part, with Scarlet glow.
)n great J.P.-ship some Men stake their Tact;
Jthors for Heav’nly Wings themselves have
backed ;
)h, Gamblers all, why make this very Globe
Place within the Meaning of the Act?
Flicy say the Rabbit scuttles o’er the Loam
Where Cherryman once reared a Lovely Home;
Mul Dairyfat, who milked a Record Herd—
L’he Kine above his lowly Roof now roam.
welcome Weekly down beside the Crick
If so it be that Snakes are not too thick),
W trusty Pipe, and Kitty’s ready Smile—
Mi, Joy don’t all consist in Getting Shick !
Ln Shick’s Detraction, though, too much is said
By froward Souls, and others by them led ;
[ often think Beer’s Enemies are nark’d
Because one Shandy dooms them to a Head.
Oh, Gloomy Ones, can you postpone the Day
When human Aphides must meet Death’s Spray ?
What matter, then, what matter is’t we seek
Fermented Juice to solace our short Stay ?
And so, by this process of elimination, we are
left at last with the winning Rubaiyat. It is not
such a good Rubaiyat as Fred Davison’s, nor is it so
humorous as the Rubaiyat of Jud, nor so original
as “ N.L.’s ”; but it is sincerely Australian in
tone, offends not the conditions of the competition,
and by its rather precise merit slips past more
brilliant but more errant competitors. It is an
excellent sense-rendering of Omar’s philosophy
planted in Australian soil. But it is not a work
of genius. The winner is Miss Brook, 438 Chancery
Lane, Melb. Other competitors of whose verses
more than five quatrains are here printed will be
paid for them at the usual Bulletin rates. |||
Burst up the big estates, my boys,
Build up the tariff wall,
And make the birth rate boom along,
And borrow not at all.
Lay down the mighty battle-ships
As fast as you are able,
And let them bear, from stem to stern,
A truthful union label.
Bay off the debts and forge the guns
To guard our country sunny,
And see that all these things are done
With wdiite Australian money.


9?
i
W
L
m
.■ ■■ .
i
' v *w- ?
n
\
m
' v .
11l
ill
r^ji
M
. .
*' ,
ROOMOOVA, THE MIGHTY VICTOR!
Conquers Rheumatism, Gout, Gouty SKin Diseases, Neuralgia, Pains in the Face
•sciatica, Lumbago, Indigestion, Headache, Biliousness, Jaundice, Constipation.
2/0 per BotUe, 3/- Post Free to any part of Australia. Send for Pamphlet and Testimonials to
LASSETTER’S, Universal Providers, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1907.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
■jr A Q ivrmvrrv mfl T'T’KTTI On Security of Freehold op Leasehold
JLVJL XJ XV Xj X XU JjXlX)* U Cjty or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand |PF“ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. It. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq.
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S,
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
E/ectine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
WeeH
Given
Away
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Lttl.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
• FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPEftTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished On application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.
DItINEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s *
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIAj
Etssm
Alarming Increase in Baldness!
: A REMEDY OFFERED
Which possesses ail the elements that go to produce a good head of hair. Its powerful,
stimulating properties go straight to the hair roots, giving them a life and vigour they
neverl knew before. And life and vigour to the roots mean more hair, stronger hair,
better hair. It will assuredly do all this for YOU, as it has done for thousands of others.
EDWARDS’
HARLENE
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer and Restorer.
The Finest Dressing. Specially Prepared
and Delicately Perfumed. A Luxury
and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Mr. HARRY DE WINDT,
The Great Explorer, writes:
"I have only used your ‘HARLENE’ for TWO
MONTHS and am perfectly astounded at its
marvellous results. My hair has ceased drop*
ping out, and is growing again quite thickly.”
m
I/-, a/6 g 4/6
per Bottle, from Chemists and
Stores all over the world.
Edwards' ‘ Harlene” Co.
95 & 96
High Holborn,
London, w.c.
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied^
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUGGY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, GAS FITTINGS, &c. PT-Send for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
HOULDER
Passengers Booked to
All Parts of the World.
BROTHERS & CO., Ltcl.
STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS
SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.’
THE HOULDER LINE STEAMERS. frS.S'T 1
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &e.
Steamer.
HOENBY GRANGE
OVINGDEAN GRANGE
URMSTON GRANGE
LANGTON GRANGE..
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw)
ELSTREE GRANGE
ROYSTON GRANGE
Tons.
3,950
3,650
5,420
9,400
10,500
6,230
6,770
Steamer.
BEACON GRANGE ..
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE ..
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw}
THORPE GRANGE
HAVERSHAM GRANGE ..
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw}
SOUTHERN CROSS ..
Tons-
-6,7/0
9,300
10.500
6,380
11.500
11,500
7,420
First Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall S.W. London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata,. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
Brimful of Nourishment
4 , : ; t: ■
• .1 •:
Trade ’
MarlWCS]
PLASMON
The Pood for Old and Young.
(Also Plasmon Cocoa, Oats, Biscuits, &c.)
toff*<:s* y/j
For Kangaroo and Big Game
.44 C.F.W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U.S.A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt* on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sm Capsule marked ENt’S ■ FRUIT BALT.' Without It you hart a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
Pnpirid only by J. O. UNO, Ltd.,' FRUIT SALT * WORKS. LONDON. BNO.,
by J. O. UNO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.
S3
i
C There’s SECURITY in
\RTERS
itt'.e
IVER
PI LLS
Absolutely Cure
BILIOUSNESS.
SICK HEADACHE.
TORPID LIVER.
FURRED TONGUE.
i
INDIGESTION.
CONSTIPATION. J
DIZZINESS.
SALLOW SKIN.
tw TOUCH
LIVER
Sure they sire
Small PHI- Small Data. Small Prlae
Carter's


Don’t neglect your cough. Stop it'
at once and drive away all thought of
consumption. Begin as early as pos-j
sible —the sooner the better—to take
Mger’s
\Cherrii federal
the most effective remedy for coughs
and colds of every kind and in every
stage.
One of the most annoying coughs
is a throat cough, where you have
that constant tick-
ling in your throat.
It comes on worse
at night, keeps you
awake, and makes
you have that
smothered feeling j
in the chest. Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral
quiets the cough,
makes breathing
easy, and heals the
N:
1
lungs. There is no other remedy so
surely to be relied on.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer& Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical.
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers
The Queen says:— *• You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
" see the label on the selvedge.
1 By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King and
Royal Family.
M GIFTS
« New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . .
** Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY : 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
, CIRCULAR QUAY. [2
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days' approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3AO to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
AOTIUC JtnrilTC wanted in each dis-
AU I IVt AutNlo trict. Large (profits
easily made. Write a.. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
tn sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., wasso LIVERPOOL
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
r
1W
IRISH
■
!Hli HI
lli;si I
U r
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING. '
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
“ROCKY CREEK”and
“ CURRANGANDI,”
BARRABA DISTRICT, N.S. WALES.
SUBDIVISION SALE, by order of the
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
Executors of the Will of the late JOHN ARN DELL.
About 25 miles from Barraba, to which a railway is being constructed.
AVERAGE RAINFALL—26 INCHES.
The above Properties will be submitted to PUBLIC AUCTION at
Mechanics Institute, Barraba, on THURSDAY, 14th MARCH, 1907,
AT NOON, on the following liberal terms One-Quarter Cash. One Quarter in Two
Years, and balance at end of a further period of Three Years, with Interest meantime
payable Quarterly at per cent., commencing one month from date of sale.
“Rocky Creek”
comprises an area of 3,207
acres, Freehold, with sub-
stantial Brick Dwelling,
Wood Shed, Hay Shed, Outbuildings and Yards, TO BE SOLD
IN ONE LOT. Homestead situated in charming position at ,
foot of large fertile valley, surrounded by large ranges and spurs. V
Elevation about 2,800 feet. Climate and Rainfall, Good.
“Currangandi”
Subdivided into Fourteen
Lots in areas ranging from
500 to 2,700 acres, compris-
ing Freeholds, C.P.’s and C.L.’s ; the various allotments clearly-
pegged out by the Surveyors. The land is eminently suited for
Mixed Farming. Watered by the Horton River and several
creeks and wells. Timber—Box, Apple and Gum.
“ CURRANGANDI.” —Intending purchasei-s desiring to inspect should communicate
with Mr. S. H. Nicholson, at “ROCKY CREEK,” via COBBED AH.
For full description of each Block, see Lithographs. For further particulars apply—
Messrs. Hill. Clark & Co., Sydney. A. W. H. Bull, Bingara, or 1
Messrs. Garven & Cousens, Tam worth. C. G. Williams, Barraba. /
Agents'in
conjunction.
LIVE STOCK, PLANT AND FURNITURE will be SOLD AT “ ROCKY CREEK ” about Three Weeks later.
, (Soap,
m Powder,
f& Jelly.
a
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, T9OO. F. WOLFF & 80HM,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE. i
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents : LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
mm
w
\JC
es
■
aw
— :
ccorveuf?
U
a
’kS.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Potary Ceieste btop.
Price
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accord eons from 7/S to 100/-
HEBUDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and ail kinds of Musical Ine+ruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Pfi*o Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention fs also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works s Birmingham, Englaad.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Parable.
The artist threw on his canvas
The thought of his inmost soul,
The tints of the higher vision.
The glow of the altar coal;
The light of the star-shot ether,
Beyond the sun’s far sight,
And the flash of angel robes that trailed
In the blue of Bethlehem’s night.
They came with their ready praises,
His name in their books they wrote,
They told the cut of his trousers,
They told the hue of his coat;
They promised him gold and silver,
They poured him their costly wine,
They chattered, and chattered, and gabbled,
And bore him away to dine.
And the picture was never finished,
For his soul grew coarse and old ;
The lines on the palette faded,
The glory grew dull and cold ;
The ether grew thick and sombre,
And he blotted his angels out—
For the soul of the artist perished,
And the man grew rich and stout.
MAORI LAND. DAVID McKeE WRIGHT.
Lost Waters.
Painted and garnished, shining in the daylight,
All along the high road the homesteads lie.
Young maids, white maids, find the pleasant way
light;
Heavy is the going to such a one as I.
Not for me the waters singing down the valley,
Glinting in the sunshine, dreaming in the shade !
There, where the footfalls of happy lovers dally.
My feet pass onward and will not be delayed.
On past the ploughshare, tilting in the furrow,
Past the fringing green crops along the woodland’s
edge,
Up by the treed, silent slopes, where to-morrow
Will ring out the music of axe and of wedge
I know a track ; I’ve trod it late and early
Looking for the cows there, and never come to
harm.
Oh me, the little head, golden-haired and curly,
Lying close, close in the hollow of my arm !
How could I leave him, my baby, to another
To cry in the night time and ne’er a one to hear,
To break his little heart there, a-sobbing for his
mother,
The only one that wants him, my sweet and my
dear ?
I know a hid creek, whose waters hardly flowing,
Brim to a still pool grey as stormy skies;
Knee-deep about it the twisted trees are growing,
Stark out across it a dead gum lies.
Up to the fork I must clamber, single-handed,
Creep along the limb with my baby at my breast;
Me and my baby, spat upon and branded,
WeTl shut our eyes—and fall—and be at rest.
Soon ’twill be Over, we’ll not be long a-sinking,
My baby, my sweetheart —but, great God above !
Keep me from thinking. Dear Christ! keep me
from thinking
Of him—the man that shamed me, the man that
I love !
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
A Bush Girl’s Song.
VIC.
My love is late a-coming
If there’s a love for me,
Old Time the years is summing,
My ’teen will soon be ’ty.
The golden hours are humming,
There’s honey in the hive ;
But love is late a-coming,
The luscious comb to rive !
The apricot and apple
Have doffed their bridal blooms ;
The sun their fruits will dapple,
And mellow their perfumes.
A warm wind is a-humming,
The summer soon will be ;
But love is late a-coming
If there’s a love for me !
A.J.B.
Prudence.
Prudence, upon the margin see
Her gentle name is writ,
In faded letters, shakily,
Prudence. John Jones fecit.
Draw near and study the sweet face
Of Prudence in her youth,
Her slender form instinct with grace,
Her eyes alive with truth.
Her parted curls of chestnut hair,
Her rosy gown cut low
To show her arms and bosom bare.
As white as drifted snow.
Prudence ! The clay clods cover thee
Long dead. But what of it ?
Your portrait lives eternally.
Prudence (John Jones fecit!)
VIC.
DOROTHY FRANCES McCRAE.


m
Mist KELLERMANN
(the Commonwealth’s Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY'S
Absolutely
PURE——
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.'
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY’S COCOA occupies the chief place A
because it is ABSOXiTJTEXjY 2PTJICE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort*
. “A Perfect Food.”— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
7.
THE “ BRUNSWICK”
Household
COLD STORAGE FOR PERISHABLE
ARTICLES OF FOOD.
\VHAT a lot of food goes bad during the hot weather
in Australia ! All this could be prevented by
having- a BRUNSWICK ICE MACHINE. Especially to
Squatters arid Fanners out wayback, too far to get ice,
to these the “Brunswick” is a necessity; they could
enjoy all the luxury- of ICE—all that refrigeration
means—even better than they do in the city. And all
required to drive this little machine is a j H.P. Oil
Engine, Which we can supply. The smallest sized
“Brunswick” gives refrigeration equal to the melting
power of 200 lbs. of ice right along.
Write or call ; we will supply full particulars and
Illustrated Catalogues on application, post free.
BUZACOTT & CO, Ltd, 7 & 9 Market St, Sydney.
wb§w
mmm
mm
ESP-SPT#?
Bj6;niWWSMj3UW^:
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Buakkel),
w£Z~'”% ir £C csst i r l’ Ha l- 161 KING ST., SYDNEY
_ ® rs “ Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LADIES’; PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Pa »!y^T PnnClple ’ suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories ih stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combiners made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, lOd
m
i _
liiiii .m m m
fe' 'SjiwS
fSgf
K)
"mi
n
I I U«« u ;[J*5 i : Ui» m
mmm
«was
HOTEL
DIETROPOLE
*J SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Ml
JohnßeScs
Scotch whisky
s
-yjTj
E
ft
7>
/
,U.L THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
r'OR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
A SUMMER BOON
Don’t forg'et
Has the largest sale and is superior to all others.
RISK S WHISKY
Is simply
Perfection.
BOTH OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING HOI ELS.
By Royal Warrant to
J
His Ma jesty tiie Kingr.
(
is of great value as a “Pick-me-up”'
Bovril is guaranteed to be free from any added preservative
in conformity with the Commonwealth regulations.
mm
AMS
$
Sold by
All Jewellers
Ask to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JRWRIaLER
in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch. *
m
SUVH
3HIOV
s
ZGBI
\*o'
7oa*
Ofjo
1
■S'/tt' 4
EstoP
175 a
AVCHAKl U3
t-RICH uo.l!
iH'MMfiiigitifi
AVENARIUS
WILL RID YOUR MOUSE OF
WHITE ANTS
AVENARIUS is not only a sure cure for WHITE ANTS—it is the
best wood preservative known. Painted on or applied by dipp -
ing, it is all the same, AVENARIUS does its work thoroughly.
It permeates into the pores of the wood, giving the timber a
lasting protection against the ravages of all vermin, and
the action of damp, salt or fresh water, either above or
below ground.
ALL OIL AND COLOR STORES SELL
AVENARIUS.
Wholesale
Agents:
E. RICH & CO*,
LTD*,
Sydney
a.J
Brisbane*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 28.—N0. 1410.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1907.
Price 6d.
THE GATHERING OF THE CRIMINALS.
A deputation of fruitgrowers recently waited on Customs Minister Lyne to complain that, under his Commerce Act, restrictions are placed on
the trade in diseased fruit. The Bulletin hears on bad authority that next time the fruitgrowers call to complain because they are not allowed
to poison the community they will be supported by other influential offenders—especially representatives of the Burglars’ Federation, the United
Embezzlers, and the Baby-Farmers’ Union. William is again expected to be unsympathetic.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
" A astral in for the Austral inns.”
Printed and Published bv William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... -£1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tins Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling. you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week, for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director,
ltow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editbr,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
oflicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special ’Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be, refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
hvo columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address As specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further., those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllach and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
'will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Messrs. R. A. Thompson Jc Co., 28 Riebeck Street, Cape-
town ; The Central News Agency, Diirban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co., Ltd., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Argents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1907.
THE SALVATION OF THE LOST
PROVINCE.
It was announced last week that Prime Minister
Deakin had shed some of his needless and dread-
ful affability and Done Things. A year or two
of correspondence between him and the State
Government of S.A. brought the cession of
the Northern Terrritory to the Commonwealth
no nearer, and when The Bulletin went to press
last week the position was exactly what it had
been any time since 1901. The Chow was still
swinging on Australia’s back door. The greedy
eye of militant Asia was still looking through
Australia’s back keyhole. The Territory was just
as hopeless as it had been for 120 years—killed
dead by want of communication, with no prospect
of a railway because S.A. can’t put up the money,
with no prospect of settlement for want of
access to markets,' with the Chow pecking
feebly and miserably at its tin mines, the
British gold mining companies giving things up
as a bad job by reason of the incapacity of the
British Johnny management, and the foreign
land syndicate monopolising huge areas on which
to run a few wild and staring cattle. Now, it is
announced that by personal conference, Alfred
Deakin and Thomas Price have, in two days,
practically fixed up all arrangements for the
transfer of the Territory to the Commonwealth,
and if the two Parliaments agree, and the Terri-
tory receives even a fair semblance of good
management afterwards, the day of resurrection
is fairly in sight. As regards the first “if,” it is
impossible to imagine that the Parliaments will
not agree. It may be taken for granted that little
Afternoon-tea Kelly - of the Reps, will cackle
and obstruct; Kelly always obstructs, and he
would pour forth his irritating cackle if an
enemy were already at the gate—unless the enemy
had set fire- to his motor-car. It may be fairly
assumed, too, that Bruce Smith will ask for an
assurance that the Territory will be filled with
niggers and Chinamen. Then there will be a
complaint from the new Queensland senators,
Sayers and Chat away ,and Sledger ; they gained
their seats partly by tickling Queensland’s vanity
with a wild suggestion that the transcontinental
railway should be abandoned, and Port Darwin
be connected with Brisbane by a huge coastal
line, and Sayers and Chataway and Sledger
must needs make some show of protest when their
scheme falls through. The Tasmanian contingent
will be indifferent, and the Westralian push will
want some definite promise that its own pet line
from Port Augusta to Kalgoorlie will not be
overlooked —an assurance which it should cer-
tainly get, even to the extent of-the passing
of an Act pledging the Commonwealth to
build the line within a specified period. But,
with all drawbacks, it is hard to imagine that the
Australian Parliament will hesitate to take over
the Territory on almost any conditions.
* * * *
The terms on which South Australia surrenders
its proud white elephant will, presumably, include
the taking over of the Territory’s debt and the
immediate construction of the transcontinental
line. The line must be built in any case, other-
wise the Territory will be the same old, empty,
useless.deficit that it has been so long. As for
the debt, it is time the Commonwealth made a
beginning, somehow and somewhere, at the busi-
ness of taking over the State liabilities, and this
is as good a way to begin as any other. Moreover,
it would be grossly unfair if the debt were not
taken over, and the Territory is cheap at the
price. It would be cheap at an immensely greater
price.
* * * *
If the long-postponed “deal” comes off this
time it should open a new era in Australian
politics. The Commonwealth will have a chance
to demonstrate, in a huge arena, what it can do
in the way of administration—such a chance
as a great statesman and organiser yearns
after, yet very seldom finds. The Commonwealth
will have an almost virgin field, in which it will
be supreme. There will be no Carruthers in
the Territory weeping over the imaginary wrongs
of Ma State; no Newton Moore braying that
his State is robbed and “ruined”; no hostile
press —for a while at least; and very, little
Stinking Fish, barring Chinese Fish, and that
hardly counts. With anything like good manage-
ment, the only serious obstruction to be looked
for between latitude 26 and the Arafura Sea
should be an anxious and disturbed foreign race
saying “Whaffor?” But it is essential that
the problem should be attacked with courage
and enthusiasm, with a resolve to find joy
and pleasure in facing huge difficulties, with a
determination to Do Things and to delight
in doing them. It will be necessary to pour
money into the Territory in order to make it a
profitable asset that will repay the money many
times over. And in the process a deaf ear will
often have to be turned to the member for
Smith’s Curse, and his demand to know wfiat is
the use of saving one-sixth of a continent from
uselessness and possible Asiatic annexation when
the Government, in its haste to build the first
railway across Australia, has forgotten to put a
fresh coat of paint on the letter box just outside
Smith’s Curse where the road branches off to
Jones’s Ruins.
* * » #
A good resolve to begin with is that there
shall be no administration of the Territory on im-
ported Johnny principles. The Territory requires
no British “capting” at the head of its local
affairs; this country has had all the British
“capting” it can stand in Papua. Next there
will be the debt problem to consider. So far the
Commonwealth’s I O U has never been seen in
the world’s money market, and in order that
the Federation may live up to its principles it is
most desirable that the Territory debt shall be
converted, whenever the chance is available, into
uniform Federal Consols, with a sinking fund
attached. After being, for six years, the only
institution in Australia that is out of pawn, it
would be a lamentable and disgraceful thing if
the Commonwealth were content to regard its
new debt as a permanent affair, to be carefully
stacked up in a corner as if it were a treasure and
handed down to posterity as if it were an heir-
loom. And, as a still larger financial problem,
there is the building of 1100 miles of railway at a
cost of perhaps £6,000,000 or more, for it is essen-
tial that it should not be a meregimcrack line. It
will be, for a time at least, the only road On which
Australia can rely if it has to send the means of
defence to the Territory in a day of invasion,
and a railway on which a country’s very
existence may depend requires to be something
better than a narrow-gauge concern of cheap
light rails lying almost unballasted on the floor of
the wilderness. It should be a broad gauge affair,
suited for swift travelling, and that would involve
some future arrangement for the Federal pur-
chase of the part of the transcontinental which
lies within S.A. territory, and its conversion from
the present rattletrap to a railway suited for a fast
express service. It will certainly be difficult to
build a work of this size out of revenue and yet do
it with the speed that the case requires, yet it is
by no means impossible. At the very least the
Commonwealth should find half the cost of the
work out of Federal direct taxation, and make
sure that the debt which represents the other half
is speedily wiped off again by the operation of a
sinking fund. Either way, the finding of the
money will necessarily arouse that quaint circus,
the State Frights person, with his impossible tale
about some unfindable agreement, said to have
been made by parties who are still at large,
whereby “ the power of direct taxation is reserved
to the States.” The pleasure of arousing that
State Frights person to helpless fury will be
almost as good as an asset in itself.
* * * *
Then, in addition to all other responsibilities,
the Commonwealth, when it takes over the Terri-
tory, will require to find some way of discouraging
the great and objectionable Northern Chow. It
will require to actively police the coast to prevent
the surreptitious introduction of more Chow, as
the country becomes more attractive to that
evasive yellow personage. It must needs take a
more active interest in defence, for the effective
occupation of the Territory will be a shock to
many Asiatic hopes and aspirations, and of all
Australian ports, Darwin, as the nearest to the
scene of danger, will be the most liable to attack.
Above all, the Commonwealth will have to pro-
vide itself with a land settlement policy and an
immigration policy—two matters which it has
hitherto got along without. To make the Terri-
tory pay, to make the great, expensive railway
(and the future branch railways connecting it
with Queensland, N.S. Wales and Westralia)
pay, and to garrison the new possession,
the Commonwealth will want some hun-
dreds of thousands of strong white settlers,
and to attract these it will probably be necessary
to give away small farms gratis to pioneers who
are willing and qualified to go out and argue the
point with the wilderness. It will certainly be
necessary to make rigid laws to prevent the
aggregation of great estates, and there will be work
to do at gently elbowing out or buying out the
great estate-holders who are already in possession.
There will be need for a medical school for the
study of tropical diseases ; the Territory is prob-
ably quite as healthy as Victoria or Tasmania,
but if its inhabitants have to depend on medicos
who know nothing of the ways of the local germ, it
may easily get a bad reputation. There will be an
education problem and a local government problem
—in fact, there will be so much to do when the
523,000 square miles of the Lost Province become
Federal property that for a year or two there
should hardly be time to listen to Carruthers’
plaint that the Federal cow is eating his imaginary
State grass.
* -* * *
The Bulletin enumerates these many and
weighty responsibilities solely by way of en-
couragement. If the Australian Parliament is
worth its salt it will be glad right down to its
feet that, there being so much to be done for
Australia, the chance of doing it should have •
come in the way of this generation. If there are
men in it to whom the doing of great things and
the solving of great problems is a joy and a satis-
faction, then the Territory problem will be a
fascination—one that they wouldn’t miss for an
Agent-Generalship. It should especially irppeal
to those who are not wholly parochial—who
have some glimpse of the Australian spirit,
and nope tor something better in the
way of Federation than a discordant central
Parliament eaten up by State jealousies and
surrounded by a catfight of grudging and peevish
local Premiers. The Federal authority can only
become the influence it should be in Australia
by being a strong authority, and it can only prove
its strength by Doing Things. The Territory is'
an arena in which it can Do Things. It will have
room there to put many democratic theories into
practice, and to refute a horde of carping Tory
critics by accomplishing what they say is impos-
sible, and by bringing prosperity out of devices
which they allege to be crude and ruinous. The
annexation of the Territory, in short, will be the
greatest event that has happened to Australia
since the establishment of the Commonwealth.
Arid Prime Minister Deakin, as the man who is
largely responsible for both events, has vindicated
his right to be regarded as an Australian states-
man—despite the superfluous affability which so
often retards his movements, and makes him waste
time bowing and scraping to a political enemy
when he should be taking the enemy’s scalp.
PREMIER KIDSTON’S POLICY.
Queensland holds its general election this year,
and apparently four parties will go to the poll.
This is rather a variation from the usual course of
State politics, which have, since the fiscal issue
ceased from troubling, been drifting back towards
the two-party order of things. In Victoria,
Bent has practically swallowed Mackinnon and
Peacock ; and in N.S. W. Carruthers is greasing
his lower jaw to see how it will work in the pro-
cess of swallowing Twaddell and Owe’Sullivan.
In Queensland, however, factions have multiplied
rather than diminished, arid chaos tends to be
more chaotic. The old Philp crowd is there, of
course, with its unspeakable record of blundering,
jobbery, financial incapacity, huge loans and huge
deficits ; and behind it is the Tory and land-
jobbing press, the boodlers and the wild-cat
men, and the big landlords, and everything that
Queensland could best dispense with if an in-
scrutable Providence saw fit to take it from this
earthly scene. Attached to this gang is Dig by
Denham, butter-man and recent renegade, and it
will be accompanied to the poll by any section of
the old Morgan or Progressive party which he
may be able to draw with him, though so far he
has drawn nothing but himself. Next there is
the large and intelligent section of the Labor
party which follows Premier KiDSTON, and allied
with it the old Morgan or progressive party,
barring Denham, butter-man and renegade,
already mentioned. Finally, there is a very
small but incredibly bitter and impracticable sec-
tion of the Labor party, which demands all or
nothing, and wants it instantly; and which, in
its fury because Kidston doesn’t go the imme-
diate hog, the whole instantaneous hog and nothing
but the hog, seems half-inclined to lean towards
Philp the Tory, and make alliance with him.
This section is represented by the Worker,
which professes to be intensely democra-
tic, and also professes to see no reason
why Australia should not throw open its
ports to the goods of the low-wage Asiatic
non-unionist. AH these odds and ends make a
curious political medley. The election may sort
things out to some extent, but the probabilities
are that it won’t make any very great, change.
In such a position there are two courses that a
Premier may take. He may announce his policy,
and stand or fall by it, and if it is a good policy
and the Premier is a strong Premier he generally
comes out on top. Even if he fails he at least
fails with honor and dignity, and, as a rule, he
only retires to come back to office at a later date
and on a stronger footing. The other course is to
strengthen himself with alliances, to make com-
promises, to trim his sails to imaginary or antici-
pated breezes, to swallow part of his principles in
order to save the rest, to hold conference with
Philp and Cribb and Leahy, to butter Denham,
to find out the price of the Courier’s support,
to swarm secretly up the backstairs* of the
Daily Mail to ascertain its figure in concessions,
and to negotiate for the support of howling sects
and secret societies of the Angora Goat. That is
the way of the Old Parliamentary Hand. It is
the way of Drake who is politically dead, and
McCay who is politically defunct, and
Minister McLean who is gone, and Anderson
Dawson whose light has blown out, and George
Reid whose light is burning very low ; but it is to
be hoped it will not be the way of Kidston. It
often leads to office in the immediate present,
and it always leads to failure and contempt in the
future. In the end it generally pays very poor
dividends compared with the policy of the man
who goes straight ahead and takes results as they
come.
• * « *
Premier Kidston’s programme and his record
both justify him in refusing the greasy hand
of friendship held out by his late colleague
Denham, and the oily overtures of Philp, and in
ploughing his own furrow. The Governments of
which he lias been either the leader or a promi-
nent member have established the principle of
one adult one vote; they have passed the Workers’
Compensation Act, and the Shearers’ and Sugar
Workers’ Accommodation Act; they have ex-
panded the Agricultural Bank which supplies
cheap money to settlers, restored the deductions
which Philp made in the salaries of public ser-
vants, abolished Philp’s infamous poll-tax, and
exempted people with small incomes from the
operation of the income-tax. Also, they have
enacted a law providing for the compulsory re-
sumption of great estates, created a Labor Bureau,
and built a good many miles of new railway. And
where the unspeakably incapable Philp heaped
up £1,150,000 of deficits in three years and added
enormous amounts to the public debt, the Minis-
tries with which Kidston was connected have pro-
duced, outof asmallerrevenue, anaggregatesurplus
of £129,000 and haveslightly reduced theawful heap
of Queensland’s public liabilities. That is the past
record on which Premier Kidston asks for a.
renewal of confidence. For the future his pro-
gramme includes Old Age Pensions, a system of
Wages Boards on the Victorian model, a Public
Service Superannuation Fund, and a scheme to
settle disputes between the two Houses by re-
ferendum ; he has an immigration policy and an
irrigation policy ; a proposal for State accident
insurance; and a number of v other vigorous
democratic ideas. There are spots pn Kidston,
no doubt. His unaccountable refusal to com-
mit himself to a land-tax is, one \spot, and
his folly in letting the central sugar-mills, which
State management had dragged out of bank-
ruptcy, go back to the hands o.f the old imbecile
management, is a whole blot. But a great deal
may be forgiven to the leader of a party which has
given Queensland three years of solvency and
honest finance. To anyone who comprehends the
vastness of the borrowing curse and the horrors of
the loan slavery these three years of honesty
would cover a whole stack of sins—far more than
there are to cover in Kidston’s case.
* • * *
The Government party is the middle party in
Queensland politics, just as T Waddell’s is in
N.S.W. and Mackinnon’s in Victoria, but it
doesn’t necessarily follow that its fate will be
theirs. There is a difference in middle parties.
When Moltke pushed his wedge into the Aus-
trian line at Sadowa he won through being the
person in the middle. When he closed in on two
sides of the French at Sedan they lost through
being in the middle. It is all a question of the
kind of person who is in the middle and the sort
of individuals who are on the two sides. One
thing is certain —when all the possible leaders
now in sight are considered, by far the best hope
for Queensland lies in Kidston’s success. On
one hand is Philp, who went down in
1903 because many of his best friends left
him in terror, regarding him as a crazed
person whose mad extravagance and childish
incapacity must end in bringing Queensland
to public insolvency. Philp was “ the limit ” for
incapacity ; his whole life was a muddle; his
knowledge of public affairs was that of the lower
animals, and his public finance was the finance of
the beasts that perish. His only claim for
restoration to power is the effluxion of time ; he
is four years older than when he muddled himself
out of office, and presumably four years more
incapable; also, the public has had four years
in which to forget his ineptitude. The
other alternative to Kidston seems to be Joe
Lesina and the two or three wild-eyed incom-
prehensibles who circle round the Worker, and
have the immediate and wholesale reconstruction
of society for their object. About the goodness
of their intentions there seems little doubt, hut
their programme is a shriek and a cloud of vapor.
In the circumstances, Kidston’s policy is plainly
to plough his own furrow ; to cultivate a vast
contempt for Philp ; to disregard the treacherous
paw of amity held out by Denham ; and, if his
allies of the old Morgan party should desert him,
to make no attempt to retain them by compro-
mise, but just to let them go. Kidston’s policy,
despite some omissions, represents quite as much
progress as any Ministry is likely to accomplish
in the life of one Parliament. If Queensland
doesn’t recognise that now, a brief trial of Philp
or Lesina will probably convince it that the per-
fect leader is rare, and that it is easy to travel
further than Kidston and fare a great deal worse.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unsatisfactory Immigrant.
New South Wales has only made a beginning—
and a small baby-size in beginnings at that—with
its new assisted immigration policy, and already
there are unpleasant rumors. The most unplea-
sant is that many of the immigrants are not
agriculturists at all, but townsmen; that they
refuse the agricultural work offered them on the
ground that they wouldn’t know a plough if they
saw one; that even if they didn’t refuse it the
farmer would assuredly refuse them, having no
use for people who fancy that a cow should be
turned upside down and milked with a shoe-
horn; and that some of them are already drifting
towards the dosser’s refuge in Sydney Domain.
This trouble is quite apart from, and in addition
to, the other trouble about disgusted English
farmers, who have come to N.S.W. and found
nothing offering except a chance to go farming on
shares for the benefit of about the most exorbi-
tant landlord on earth. In selecting his assisted
immigrants Agent-General Coghlan doubtless does
his best to find the genuine British agricultural
person, the real Hodge or Giles Chawbacon. Of
course, he can’t personally inspect all of them;
he can’t wander over the country to look at Giles
and Sabah Chawbacon, and it would be too
costly to bring them all to London for his direct
inspection. But as far as he and his trusted
agents can manage it, the article sent out is the
genuine Chawbacon, warranted to rise early, be
respectful to the squire, and take an interest in
“turmuts.” And the reason of the partial failure,
as one of the authorities at this end disgustedly
puts it, is that there ds no real Hodge left in
England—or none woitth speaking of. The im-
ported men are brought from the backblocks of
Britain, and that looks like a guarantee of their
bucolic character, but it isn't. They are towns-
men all the same—the only distinction is that
they are dwellers in the small towns instead
of the large cities. In England and Wales almost
all the distinctively agricultural counties, such as
Hereford, Huntingdon, Cambridge, Norfolk, Ox-
ford, Rutland, Westmoreland, Cardigan, Pem-
broke, Merioneth, and Montgomery, showed a
loss of population between the census of 1891 and
that of 1901 through the continuous vanishment
of Hodge and Giles Chawbacon, and even
in these counties the . population consists
mostly of the inhabitants of desolate little
towns. Rutland county, for instance, has only
152 square miles, and 19,709 population, yet
there are 14 towns on the map pf Rutland.
When their inhabitants are allowed for, it doesn’t
leave much real Hodge or Chawbacon —much of
the genuineold-fashioned villager—in the allegedly
agricultural county of Rutland. Yet it doesn’t
necessarily follow that immigration from the
British Isles should be a complete failure. A large
proportion of the population of the small English
towns has only lately been driven off the
land, and should be capable of being driven
on to it again. And though the chrome
townsman —the “ stunted factory operative,
of whom so much is heard —is poor material
out of which to make a farmer, yet fn a
new atmosphere he is quite capable of having
a tall brawny son in whose person the lost
agricultural instinct might revive. At all events
Australia should do a lengthy think, and give the
British immigrant a very long and patient trial,
before it rushes to fill up its vacant spaces with
bucolic Italians and Hebrew agriculturists from
Russia. There are agricultural races which are
such and have been such for ages by compulsion
only. :,iul


surroundings, promptly throw off all disguise and
open a squash shop, or a depot for the sale of
speckled fruit, or an ice-cream barrow. And there
■m people like those of the British Isles who have
been driven off the land by villainous legislation,
but who may yet be capable of going back to
it and making a better show than the Roman
or the agricultural Hebrew from Russia. These
last have one serious drawback. Their
agriculture is of the primitive, impoverished
variety that ploughs with a forked stick and tears
off the crops by hand. In these days of intricate
agricultural machinery many an engineer from a
Clyde-side foundry would, with a year’s training,
make a far better farmer than the Neapolitan,
whose ancestors have been dragging things out
of the ground since the days of Scrpio. The keen-
witted engineer would have to learn cows and
grass, and the dull-witted Italian Hodge would
have to learn machinery. It is hard to say which
of them would have more to learn, but it is pretty
safe to say which would be the better pupil.
4
Burnt Grass.
“ Tarboy ” writes from Toowoomba (Q.): —
Have just been reading (B. 7/12/’O7) “J.P.’s” account
of the state of the country west of Charleville (Queens-
land). He is right about the first part of it, for it is like
a wheatfield. It would also “ give a Hunter River pad-
dock a start.” The country is also part of a State which,
if not quite decimated by the Great Drought, as he says,
has suffered very much. So far—good ; but I want to say
something about his conclusions, and I do so because of
his “Stinking Pish” description of the men who came
through that drought with credit to themselves and sub-
stantial profit to their country. By implication, he says
that they are indifferent to their own interests, abso-
lutelyimprovident, lazy, and continually drunk, now they
are prospering again after seven years of hell on earth.
All this because there is much grass in the country, and
it is not being cut for hay. “ J.P.” is a typical tourist—
here to-day and gone to-morrow, and settling problems
which people on the spot have studied for years, without
being able to solve them. Like other tourists, he is fond
of the word “.obvious,” and only a tourist would gibe at,
and offer valueless advice to, the men who worksd hard
and became old before their time in a drought, as to what
they ought to do in the next one.
The lesson “J.P.’’learned is, that it will pay to cut,
make, and stack, natural grasses and hold the hay against
the next drought. He does not state what the “mini-
mum of cost ” is to cut, make and stack one ton of hay,
nor does he state how much one sheep would require as
a ration for one day. He says “obviously,” and there
you are I If he had given figures, then the ignorant, im-
provident, drunken persons who are working the country
might learn how little they know of their business.
Here are a few particulars. It is the result of an ex-
periment carried out on a big station in the West. It
was conducted under ideal conditions, on an open plain
free from obstructions, and only a mile from water. The
cost of cutting, making, stacking, and distributing
worked out a trifle over 10s. per ton of 22401 b. The
ordinary ration for one sheep for one day came out at
.ibout sib. The sum then to be worked on most stations
is, supposing “J.P.’s” advice be taken: If it cost 10s.
per ton to feed bush hay to sheep on the basis of a ration
of 51b. per head per day, how much will it cost to feed,
say, 20,000 breeding ewes in a drought lasting 12
months? Eliminate interest charge on capital sunk and
lying idle until the drought comes along, insurance
against fire, and cost of fencing the numerous stacks.
Answer: 45 tons per day, or 16,425 tons for the year,
which, at the rate of 10s. per ton, works out at £8212
10s., equal to Bs. 2d. per head. If the drought lasted
three years, the cost would be £1 4s. 6d. On dry
feed there would be few or no lambs, and if every
ignorant, &c., manager in the country took “J.P.’s”
advice, and made hay against a drought for his sheep, it
would require a large army of field laborers. Labor for
bush work has not been too plentiful lately, so where is
it to come from for that work? Then there is “J.P.'s"
gibe at the men who asked for cheap rates for carriage of
starving stock. He should ask out on the Barcoo about
those unfortunate men who sent their sheep to the coast,
and how few of the many thousands sent away returned.
Grass seed and fluke killed them off like flies. Mostly
small men, they were ruined by the assistance given. In
the part of the country “ J. P.” writes of, water generally
fails long before feed. Hence, even if the feed had
been cut in times of plenty, it would have to be carted
long distances at great expense.
Obviously “ J.P.’s” politics differ from those of the men
he slanders. My politics differ from theirs too, but that
does not prevent me from trying to be at least fair in
judging those brave and, on the whole, clever men who
work the western runs.
And this is “R.H.P.,” from Longreach, on the
same subject:—
Does “ J.P.” think that men who spend their lives in
the back blocks putting down artesian bores, fencing,
tank-sinking, purchasing high-priced rams, ploughing
firebreaks, and battling, year in year out, are going to
let the drought smother them because they won’t trouble
to avail themselves of the abundance of grass? If “ J.P,”
tried to feed 4000 sheep on bush hay for 12 months (rain
might come in that time, and it might not),
the cost would be £2OOO or thereabouts. Bush hay
costs from £1 to £1 ss. per ton, and it would
take 1400 to 1500 tons to feed 4000 sheep for
12 months, and, in addition to initial cost of hay, there
is thatching, fencing of stacks, draught horses, and labor
to cart and feed to sheep, deaths (for when did anyone
feed sheep on bush hay and not lose a big percentage ?).
Also his water supply must be adequate. After feeding
for perhaps 12 months, “ J.P.” might wake up to find his
immense stacks vanished, and the stock routes closed,
and, after spending the worth of the sheep, lose the
greater number of them. And how many are solvent
enough to keep thousands of pounds stacked for perhaps
five or six years on the ground ? “J.P.” will need to ride
a bit further on coaches, and converse more with the
drivers thereof, before he can teach his pastoral grand-
mothers how to suck eggs.
+
Irvine, the Little Tutor.
The idea of defending ourselves by any, however well-
trained, military forces we may possess, is, to all
who have studied the question, an impossibility . . . Mot
only our first line of defence, but practically our only
national bulwark at all, lies in the continued and com-
plete supremacy of the British navy. (Loud applause.)—
"• H. Irvine at Knox’s smoke social.
■This W. H. Irvine, the hysterical bounder who
repealed the British Constitution and proposed to
license the push to break into and sack any house
•t suspected of containing strike literature, and
who finally scampered out of Victorian politics
when the bits of newspaper which kept his back-
bone rigid began to peel off, started life in Aus-
tralia as a tutor. And he has the tutor soul still.
Luring the weary years in which he hammered
arithmetic and abbreviated English history into
the skullq of the young Tories whose parents
employed him, the little-souled tutor developed a
fearful upd wonderful reverence for the British
navy—as it was written up by Collier. This
sort of history pictures the terrible British fleets
sweeping the*seven oceans and filling the world
with awe. W. H. Irvine sucked it in
ike a spapgaipiakb gradually the British navy
became in Mof|p||p a sort of fetich, a shield
under which scattered Empire might
sleep, undistqiVp'A. by haunting suspicions that
somebody to break in. But his remarks
we mere wofe. If they mean anything, the
Substance of them amounts to a statement that if
ever W. H. Irvine becomes Premier of Australia
he will give up all attempt to create an Australian
army or navy, because the safety of Australia
depends upon the British fleet. At the census of
1901 there were in the Commonwealth 644,000
men of military age, that is between 20 and 40
years of age Under a proper defence scheme
almost all those men could be available for light-
■ng purposes—a very respectable army, from
which a mobile force of at least 150,000
tould be drawn to carry on an aggressive cam-
paign against an invader, while the less efficient
balance could occupy fortified positions. Irvine’s
theory is that a country with resources like these
should just lie down and be a weeping sneak, de-
pending wholly on mother for defence. He de-
liberately advocates cowardice and lack of self-
reliance. And his remarks about the “continued
and complete supremacy ”of the British navy
clearly indicate that he had either never learned
British naval history, or had forgotten it in the
enthusiasm which Knox’s smoke social roused in
him. A smoke social is the sort of place in which
a man’s fetich is always liable to spring up and
get him down, and when Irvine arose, last Thurs-
day, on the two legs which helped him to retreat
out of Victorian politics, his particular fetich, the
creation of his old tutor days, got hold of him,
and caused him to open his head and fall
in. The “ loud applause ” indicates that
the bulk of the company fell in also. When the
British navy was at the height of its supremacy,
during the Napoleonic wars, it destroyed, accord-
ing to Haydn’s “ Dictionary of Dates,” 1110
foreign warships. Unfortunately, while it was
doing this, and asserting its “complete and con-
tinued supremacy,” no less than 10,000 British
mercantile ships were captured or sunk. The
significance of this lies in the fact that in those
days Britain grew its own food, and had every
British ship gone down it would not have brought
Britain to a state of starvation. To-day, the
position is very different. Britain draws the
great bulk of its food supplies from overseas,
and, in order to keep the food routes from Canada
and the U.S. A. open, every available British war-
ship would be wanted in the Atlantic and around
the British coasts. That the British Government
thinks so is indicated by the manner in
which, during the last two years, the battleships
have been gathered around the heart of the empire.
We Australians do not make the British navy.
We have no voice in its increase or decrease, and
although under Irvine’s scheme the supremacy of
that navy is necessary to us, we have no power to
make the British taxpayer build. Irvine’s idea
is that the safety of Australia should depend
upon the whim of the British elector. If he
decides to economise, then Australia must
perish, because W. H. Irvine, the man
who proposed to abolish Magna Charta,
has decided in his little tutor mind that
the military defence of Australia is impossible.
Yet, consider some of the things which, in their
day, were considered impossible. The Irvine
who lived in Rome about the year 219 8.C., and
made speeches at smoke socials, no doubt declared
that the invasion of Italy by a Punic force march-
ing overland from Spain was impossible. The
other Irvine who supped in the Carthaginian
camp the night before Cannae no doubt declared
that for Hannibal to surround 120,000 Romans
with 30,000 Punic troops was impossible. The
same type of croaker doubtless declared Marathon
and Bannockburn quite impossible. Nobody can
say what courage and good management may not
do, and the man who advises Australia, with a fight-
ing population of 644,000, to sit down idly and
trust its existence to the whim of an overtaxed
people 12,000 miles aw.ay is a sort of lunatic who
is a danger in Parliament, and a coward who
ought to have bricks thrown at him every time he
opens his mouth to advise the country to commit
national suicide.
Britain’s Inability to Hold the Sea.
British Admiral Harding Close, concerning
an important subject:—
We spend 31 millions a year on the navy. We might
as well chuck that money into the sea for all the good it
will do, for what is the use of our going to sea and
winning battles of Trafalgar if we leave a starving popu-
lation behind ?... It is no use our boasting that we have
a powerful navy, and that, therefore, having command of
the sea, our food supply is safe. You cannot get a naval
officer to say so. We never had command of the sea, so
far as the protection of our merchant ships is concerned.
If there was a period in the history of this country when
W'e might say we had command of the sea, surely it was
after the battle of Trafalgar, when there was not an
enemy left on the water. Yet after that battle hundreds
of our merchant ships were captured, and it will be so
again. We cannot protect our merchant ships ; the thing
is impossible. The true blockade will be the impossi-
bility of our ten thousand slow merchant vessels
obtaining any insurance, and being laid up as useless,
as the United States merchant ships were laid up when
the Alabama was about. This will prevent the weekly
arrival of the 400 merchant craft which bring our food,
and cause panic on the corn market, the enemy having
made food contraband of war.
These remarks furnish something for the Aus-
tralian Foreign-trader to chew on. If Britain
can’t protect its own food ships in time of war,
what chance has it of protecting ships carrying
the necessaries of existence to Australia—neces-
saries that the Foreign-trader refuses to allow
Australia to make for itself ? On a rough esti-
mate, Britain lost 10,000 merchant vessels during
the Napoleonic wars, despite its invariable suc-
cess on the sea, and despite the fact that it
devoted itself mainly to keeping a narrow
stretch of water clear of the enemy. The idea of
expecting it, even in the most favorable circum-
stances, to police the many thousand miles
between Europe and Australia, so that the im-
ported guns and cartridges, and machinery and
clothing, and whisky and cigars may arrive safely,
is the hope of a madman.
♦
The Degeneration of Parliament.
The Owk’Sullivan— suggesting the man who,
except for the fact that he had galloping con-
sumption, was quite healthy—is, outside of his
borrowing mania, a sensible and capable politi-
cian much above the average. He made a wise
remark the other day to call attention to the
steady degeneration in grade of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment. This Parliament, he contended, touched
the lowest point yet reached. The frank state-
ment has excited the indignation of the “Re-
form ” newspapers, which are largely responsible
for the present Cornstalk Assembly, but that
makes it none the less solemnly true. Nor is
there much hope that the next Parliament will
show any improvement. It is, indeed,
already announced that some of the leading
men of this Assembly, who, poor though
they be, distinctly raise its average, will not
again be candidates, and there are possibilities
therefore of a still weaker Legislature to come.
There is a remedy, of course—the accession of
fresh strength from outside ; but there is no sign
of that accession, and very little hope of it. The
fact is that Australia must face the problem of its
politician and his pay. At present the politician
is,a sadly sweated person. He gets paid mostly
in honor and glory. His money reward is only
sufficient to keep him in bread and cheese after
necessary expenses are deducted. Naturally that
debars many desirable men from thinking of a
political career ; also, just as naturally, it attracts
a certain number of vainglorious men who are
ready to live from hand to mouth and condemn
their wives and children to eternal poverty for the
sake of the reclame that comes to the man in
politics. Neither result is desirable. Australia
is a country which asks of its nublic men
not only statesmanlike gifts in regard to
purely political matters, but also administrative
and business ability for the general control of a
number of huge State enterprises. The ideal
Australian politician would be not only a wise
diplomat and a courageous leader of public
opinion, but also a cautious banker, a firm
administrator, and a man of affairs generally.
And Australia pursues that ideal with £4 a week
or less in its hand (taking a rough average, allow-
ing for additions by Ministerial salary, and
making deductions for election and other ex-
penses, the politician’s reward in Australia is
probably below £4 a week). The pursuit is rarely
successful. An occasional freak is secured—an
able man who has money enough to stand
the racket, or an able man who is so little
regardful of financial considerations that he is
prepared to be impecunious all his life in his
country’s cause. But Parliament, under the
sweating system, does not nearly represent the
young, vigorous, keen intellect of the country.
That is true of the Federal Parliament as well as
of all the State Legislatures. The people have
to put up with, as a rule, second, or third, or
tenth class abilities. To ensure a remedy, the
terms of political employment must be made
vastly better. Fewer members may be employed,
in the State Parliaments at any rate, but those
engaged must be paid very much higher wages.
It is an axiom that you can’t get first-
class abilities at tenth-class prices. A few
politicians contradict that axiom by giving £2500
a year services at an average reward of £2OO a
year. They only serve to prove the rule. The
average member of Parliament is getting to be
worth just the £2OO a year that he will earn (with
fair luck in getting a share of office) during his
political career ; or is getting into the habit of
adding to that £2OO, by dubious or actually
dishonest means, what heconsidersa “fair thing.”
+
Training a Child—in Melbourne.
It is unfortunate that, just as that Victorian
rescuer of distressed damsels, the Rev. Geo.
Tkegeaß, is getting his wind for another cam-
paign against the Abbotsford Convent, a bad case
should have occurred in Melbourne, and that the
person implicated should be a parson and a
brother Methodist. This brother Methodist is
connected with an orchard and market garden at
Burwood (Vic.), which were donated to the
“church” by jam-maker Hoadley, another pro-
minent Methodist. There the Rev. G. H. Cole
trains “wayward” youths, some committed by
the Courts, some handed over by parents too
careless or incompetent to control them. On
Feb. 12th the mother of a 12-year-old boy named
Martin desired Tregear’s brother Methodist to
take the boy out to Burwood and “ care for ” him
for a while, he being “wayward” and “irregular.”
So Tregear’s brother Methodist took him—
in a way that focuses public attention on
his methods. He first marched the 12-year-
old child up to the Detective. Office and
left him in charge there while he got his buggy.
Returning, he stood the child on the footpath,
while he snapped a pair of handcuffs on his cap-
tive’s wrists. Next, he removed the child’s braces,
so that, having to hold up his pants, he could not
run away; after that he put the manacled
prisoner in the buggy, and started on the 12-mile
drive to Burwood. It didn’t transpire whether the
rev. brother thought it necessary to put leg-irons
on the kid, or whether he carried a rifle ; nor has
it transpired whether the child (who had never
been before a court in his life, and probably didn’t
know what handcuffs were) was put in irons in a
dark cell on his arrival at this “ home farm but
from what happened while people could see, it
seems a fair thing to be told what happens when
the public can’t see. If a grown man, judged
fit to help in the training of 30 or 40 lads,
cannot control an ordinary boy of 12 without
manacling him in the public street, what sort of
methods does he use to control those two
score youths, some of them aged 18 and 19, out
on the farm ? In truth, the whole business of
training and “caring for” neglected children
wants a good deal more State supervision than it
gets. According to the Vic. Inspector of
Charities’ report, the return of inmates’ labor
above the cost of maintenance was 16s. fid. per
head at Abbotsford, while the Salvarmyßefuge,
which seems to work its victims much harder,
made £7 17s. sfd. per head. What the Rev.
Cole’s charming farm makes goodness knows.
There is another training home at Burwood, run
by a private person who, presumably, cultivates a
large block of land and grows fine crops of vege-
tables just for the pure love of teaching boys how
to cultivate. Also, there is a Girls’ Home at
Mintaro, privately carried on, from which girls
have been in the habit of escaping when they
got the chance. The Church of England and the
Methodists also have “homes” at Cheltenham.
After all, there seems, then, to be money in the
business, and there are certainly large advertise-
ments and comfortable billets ; and that fact alone
ought to make the State suspicious. If the work
were unprofitable, and provided nobody with a com-
fortable job, it might be accepted as a fact that
philanthropy was at the bottom of all the efforts ;
yet even then, as philanthropy can be misguided,
the State wouldn’t be justified in letting things
slide. When philanthropy takes the shape of a
grim-looking preacher making a public street
exhibition of a weeping child in handcuffs —a child
that can’t even wipe away his tears because he
requires both hands to keep his trousers from
falling off—there is room for a lot of State
inquiry. Some people may imagine that the
arrest of the rev. gentleman for assault on a small
boy might be a fair beginning of the investigation.
“ Brother Charles.”
About a cleric whom we’re sorry to lose :
The Rev. C. H. S. Matthews (better known as “ Brother
Charles,” of the Brotherhood of the Good Shepherd)
leaves Australia. Certain utterances of his during- the
election of last December got him into trouble with the
fashionables. Mr. Reid was reported to have said that
Socialists could not be Christians. Brother, Charles
took the ground that Christians coujd be Socialists, and
offered himself as a specimen of whgit'Mr. Reid appeared
to consider a contradiction in terms. Mr. Matthews
called himself a Socialist. He did not call himself a
Christian. He left other people to do that. And other
people did it. Brother Charles was not one of those who
suffer from being- found out. No one within reach of
his Brotherhood had any more need -to be told that its
Vice-Principal was a Christian than they had, need to be
informed that Mr. Reid was not particularly thin.
One supposes that Mr. Matthews’ secret, was his
sympathy. The old Terentian tag might,have been
(and, indeed, was) his motto from beginning to end, and
it begins “lam a man.” Inside the clothes of a clergy-
man there is sometimes not so much manhood as clergy-
manhood. Under Brother Charles’s black coat there
was a white man. He was endowed with the glorious
gift of enthusiasm. * No doubt he had his windmills
(enthusiasm must always have its windmills, especially
when the enthusiast is young ; and Mr. Matthews is
not Mr. Methusaleh). Anyhow, windmills are better
than windbags. Whenever and wherever Brother
Charles saw, or thought he saw, anything wrong—any-
thing mean, or greedy, or canting, or cruel, or dishonest
—whenever he perceived any ugliness of any sort or
description, he charged at it with fury. There was never
any need to s’ool him on, and it was never of any use to
call him off.
Of course, Brother Charles gave offence. That was rather
tragic. But it was still more tragic that he gave offence
to people to whom his sermons had given no offence at
all. In a letter to the writer he said: “I have consist-
ently preached from the pulpit for five years the identi-
cal doctrines I have now proclaimed from the house-tops
—or as near to it as I could get—and no one
took offence, because the pulpit has ceased to influ-
ence conduct in Australia.” It astonished Brother
Charles to discover that people had been glad to hear
him for five years from a pulpit because they thought
he didn’t mean what he said, and that these same
people were horribly angry when he spoke for five minutes
from a platform because they thought that he did. He
was not the “ extremist ” that Dubbo dubbed him—or
some of Dubbo. In the before-mentioned letter he
writes :—“ The defeat of the extremists in Queensland,
where the extremists are in force, was as grateful to me
as the victory of the N.S.W. brand of Socialism in its
own State.”
Of course Matthews had a send-off, where things were
said —the sort of things he hated to have said in his hear-
ing. But he is out of hearing now, and I have said some-
thing more. And I have said it to The Bulletin because
its brilliant band of artists and authors seem somewhat in
want of a parson who can be truthfully expressed
in terms other than those which are required for such
subjects for pen and pencil as Messrs. Stiggins and
Chadband.
Brother Charles was not a scarecrow, and his “ re-
ligion ” was not a scarecrow either. The Brotherhood to
which he belonged was really a Brotherhood —there was
nothing unbrotherly about it at all. And his creed led
to his politics. He called them Socialistic. The main
aspiration of the Socialist—according to certain definers
—is the one that aspires after other people’s money. The
dreams Of the Socialist (say such critics) are of such stuff
as fortunes are made of. Brother Charles didn’t mean
that (he was as poor as St. Francis), and he didn’t want
anyone else to mean it. He himself thought as little of
money as of the ways of some of those who have much of
it. The last time present scribe saw him he was waiting
for a train, and carrying a rug made (as he said)
in Auscralia out of Australian wool by Australian
workers. The straps bore a legend stating that it was
the gift of a few Socialist friends. The whole thing dis-
closed the rug-owner’s assimilative and sympathetic gift.
He had appreciated, and he had been appreciated. And
this because he looked on humanity as real members of a
real family, whereof he knew himself to be one, and not
by any means the only one.
♦
About 24 Dirty Councils.
A Sydney Health Board return furnishes more
evidence that a Greater Sydney can’t come along
a moment too soon. Under the Health Act
Sydney and suburbs are parcelled out into 49
districts for convenience in making examination
of milk and other foods. These 49 districts are
administered by the City Council and the 40
doyley municipalities, and the return shows the
manner in which the doyley councilshave exercised
the power given them by the Act to protect the
public against adulterated milk and other impuie
food. During 1906 the city itself, and some of the
suburbs, as, for instance, Paddington, Woollahra,
Newtown, Balmain, Ashfield, Leichhardt, Mar-
rickville and Randwick, made some pretence of
doing their duty. Others made either a very
infirm pretence, or no pretence at all. In the
whole of the northern suburban area, containing
something like 55,000 inhabitants, only 15 milk
samples were taken during the year, and Wil-
loughby supplied the whole lot during one month
(November) ; North Sydney (population about
29,000), Mosman and Neutral Bay (11,000) and
Ryde (4000) supplied no milk samples; and Redfern
(24,000), Darlington(4ooo), Botany and Erskineville
(16,000) and Camperdown (of course) supplied
neither milk nor food samples. In fact, of the
49 districts, only 25 supplied any sort of samples ;
that is to say, the dirty, slothful councils respon-
sible for the other 24 districts were too busy con-
templating their little bit of tinsel dignity to care
how many infants were slaughtered by adult-
erated milk, or how many people became diseased,
and consequently incompetent citizens or prema-
ture corpses by consuming impure foods. Wheie
the local authority allows the law to become a
dead letter, the Health Board may procure
samples and prosecute, but the Board is ham-
pered by Supreme Court decision which makes
it difficult to recover incidental expenses; so, by
way of coaxing the supine and dirty councils to
do their work, the Board offers to pay half their
sanitary inspectors’ salaries. The bribe ha 3 been
ineffectual in all save a very few instances. Of
course, the horrible situation has brought out the
usual crop of suggestions for dealing with it, ope
suggestion being to call upon the people to “rise”
The Young Man With an Old Man’s Mind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Least hopeful object of his kind
That in this happy land I find—
The young man wdth an old man’s mind.
He holds the old men’s moral briefs,
He cherishes their stale beliefs,
Has faith in horrors that ensue
From things original and new,
And knows this modern Socialism
To be a frightful hell-born schism !
The pride and lasting joy is he
Of staid Respectability.
Apostle of the Used-To-Be,
He fears the “ Democratic trend, ”
And prates’about its certain end
In anarchy arid blood and fire,
And devastation deep and dire.
He does not hesitate to say
’Twill frighten Capital away !
The veteran with quaking limb,
Whose intellect is growing dim,
Is worth a regiment of him,
If in his youth he helped the storm
For that mad, Radical reform,
The right of man above the beast
To have one little vote at least.
To ancient wrongs he’s quite resigned,
The young man wdth an old man’s mind.
He thinks the race of man is run,
That all worth winning has been w'on,
And all worth doing has been done.
To no authority he’ll trust
But that he delves from out the dust.
The wisdom that he prates about
Is deaf, and blind, and has the gout.
He tells us man by God was made
To honor Fat and vote Freetrade.
The young must daring be and strong.
To drag the timid age along
They need the courage to be wrong.
Since youth the way has still to find,
He serves who fails. Who hangs behind,
And sits among his father’s bones,
And helps the chorus of old crones,
Is guilty of a bitter crime—
A worthless renegade of Time.
VIC.
EDWARD DYSON.


It usually takes years to get a new invention on
the market, but the Tyree Spray has proved an exception
to the rule. Although this machine has only been three
months before the public, already over fourteen hundred
have been sold, and they are still selling rapidly. All
the Government Departments in Sydney, and the prin-
cipal business houses are now using them.
The Tyree Spray is pronounced by all expert-* to be one-
of the most important inventions ever introduced to-
public notice. It is being sold largely for, —
Spraying dairy cattle for tick.
Spraying sheep for fly-blow or maggot.
Spraying fruit trees, vines, potatoes and other vegeta-
tion with insecticides.
Spraying hospitals, gaols, asylums, schools and other-
buildings with disinfectants.
Painting and white-washing dairies, butter factories,
creameries, piggeries, abattoirs, slaughter houses, poultry
yards, schools, factories, wool sheds, stock yards,
barracks, etc.
Killing prickly pear, gorse, lantana, briars, black-
berries, with arsenic.
Painting green skinsfor export with arsenJte of soda.
Fire extinguishing and cutting out fire breaks as a
prevention of bush fires.
It works without labor, and does the work well. Send
for printed matter to W. TYREE, 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
Maoriland drinks two and a half million
gallons of beer in excess of the hop-extract
absorbed ten years ago. It rung to about ten
gallons of beer per head per year at present.
Every time a new Prohibition area comes along
the Maorilander rushes away to the statisticians
to tell them to add another gallon per head.
Prohibition makes him thirstier.
Before Bill Squires takes on another fight
he should remember the beautiful words of the
advt., “athletes no longer taboo alcohol when in
training. Bike men, runners, swimmers, boxers,
even wrestlers in the political hippodrome, all
recognise that D.C.L. Whisky, judiciously incor-
porated, keeps both mental and physical capacity
at their highest pitch.” D.C.L. properly applied
as to time, place and quantity, would assist Bill
to knock out in one round any business troubles
or dusky Johnsons that may enter the ring
against him.* •
There is nothing to fear from using Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy. It is safe and sure.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
9
FAMOUS
CHOCOLATES
ARE IMITATED BUT
NEVER EQUALLED.
L l
LARGEST SALE
IN THE WORLD.
q,nd force the councils to do their duty, But the
most effectual way is to wipe out the doyley coun-
cillor altogether; he has shown himself innumer-
able times to be a stagnant, incompetent person,
and the more he is examined the more stagnant
and incompetent he appears. By all means, let
us have a Greater Sydney.
—. «
Concerning a Federal Graduated Land-Tax
and an Offer of £l5O.
Some time ago, when the calamitous Senator
Gould made a loud statement to the effect that
a graduated land-tax was forbidden by the
Federal Constitution, The Bulletin was moved
to offer a reward to Mr, Gould, or any-
body else of his way of thinking, who would
produce the clause or clauses in the Constitution
which forbade such a tax. The reward rose
gradually to £l5O, but weeks of eloquence failed
to bring Mr. Gould up to the scratch. He
plainly hadn’t the courage of his alleged opinions,
and he lay low. The money, however, was
claimed by Mr. J. Foster Rogers, of Melbourne,
who based his theory that a graduated land-tax
was illegal on this clause of the Federal bond :
(51) The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution,
have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good
government of the Commonwealth with respect to —
(I)
(II) Taxation, but so as not to discriminate between
States or parts of States.
This is the only clause in the Constitution on
which it is possible to base any semblance
of a theory that a graduated land-tax is uncon-
stitutional ; and, as The Bulletin wholly denied
the applicability of the clause, the matter was
referred to two barristers for arbitration
as provided in this paper’s challenge. The
Bulletin nominated Mr. T. R. Bavin, of Sydney.
Mr. Foster Rogers nominated Mr. Walter
Edmunds, also of Sydney. In the case of a dis-
agreement, they were to appoint a third barrister
as referee, but as both gentlemen decided
that there was nothing whatever in the clause
which made a graduated land-tax in the least
degree unconstitutional, and thus knocked out
Mr. Foster Rogers in one round, a third
man wasn’t required. Senator Gould and the
party that denounces a Federal graduated land-
tax as “ unconstitutional ” will now please look
round for a fresh argument. And next time Mr.
Gould makes a loud and violent assertion,
it is to be hoped that he will show more
grit in backing up his opinion. In this case Mr.
Foster Rogers has lost, but he at least had the
courage of his convictions. Mr. Gould lacked
that courage so badly that even an offer of £l5O to
nothing didn’t fetch him.
*
A Party Disappears.
In Victoria the swallowing of the Mackinnon
party by the Bent Government is almost com-
plete; and the swallowed party—as is usual in
such cases—comes out of the operation very
badly. Six weeks were spent in discussing “diffi-
culties in the land policy ” of the two parties;
and this, according to the Argus, is how the diffi-
culties have been settled
The arrangement will provide that, if any land taxation
proposals are brought forward, they shall he merely in
the direction of removing anomalies of the present system.
Also
The Government policy will not include any proposal
for the compulsory purchase of land, on this point the
feeling of the parties being that the present law should
be tested first; and the most that will be said will be that
the question of adopting compulsory purchase will be
considered if it is found that the existing law is in-
sufficient.
This is the sort of “compromise” that the man
with the biggest axe usually makes with the other
man. It will be a surprise, however, if the whole
of his 11 followers pursue Mackinnon down
the Government throat. If they do, the need for
a real, live Labor par ty that has no connection with
the dreadful Jack Wren becomes more and more
urgent. Also, the fatuous folly of “ leaving land-
taxation to the States,” which was one of Reid’s
war-cries, is made strikingly apparent. With
curious irony, the Argus says that the most diffi-
cult question to settle was that concerning Scrip-
ture-teaching in State schools. But the same
issue of the Argus reports, in connection with an
Immigration League meeting, that “ population
is declining in the counties of Dalhousie, Talbot,
Follett, Wimmera, Lowan, Millewa, Gladstone,
Gunbower, Rodney, and Wonnangatta.” And,
while population is declining in 10 counties, in-
cluding among them the most fertile part of Vic-
toria, the whole worry of the Argus is about
whether Balaam and Jonah will be taught in
State schools.- By the way, apropos of a current
snake controversy, did Bent slime Mackinnon
before he swallowed him ?
♦
A Bob and a Cot.
A thousand people, at least, were expected to
attend the first “ big” meeting held by the Vic-
torian League of alleged Sportsmen, which took
place in the Athenaeum Hall, Melbourne, on the
12th inst. Although, according to the secretary,
50,000 certificates of membership had been issued,
and although there were some 10,000 members
already enrolled, only 300 citizens arrived. The
Sportsmen have made a bad beginning by offering
a sop to Cerberus. They propose to endow a
“ Sportsmen’s Cot” at the Melbourne Children’s
Hospital, out of cash received from the sale of
certificates, which are being issued at a shilling
each. This good work is not to be done right
away, but after liquidating “ the cost [not stated
or estimated] of organising and completing the
objects of the League.” One of the . objects to
be completed before the cot is endowed is the
“ repeal or entire amendment of the unfair and
inequitable clauses [not stated] of the Licensing
Act and Gaming Act.” This is sufficiently in-
definite to make the promise of a cot seem a very
unimportant matter when one is thinking about
sending the Sportsmen a shilling. Brother
Newby, the Sportsmen’s organising secretary,
who wrote the circular, is nervous about the
damage done by the Acts to “the most cherished
principles of Ber-ritish liberty (hie) and free-
dom ” ; also to “ our rights, freedom and liberties,
as men and citizens,” and to the “spirit of fair
dealing.” There is also an inclination on his part to
drag in Anti-Sosh, by mentioning the well and
favorably-known “ sanctity of the home ” —not to
speak of the sacredness of Sunday beer and the
holiness of after-hour drinks at the Club before
one dashes for the last tram. And yet, in spite
of all these promptings and appeals, the misguided
public only turned out 300 of its representatives
to remove the yoke placed upon its neck by (see
circular) “the tyranny of a few noisy extremists.”
To make out, as the Sports want to do, that
Judfull and Co. were responsible for the passing
of the Licensing and Gaming Acts, on their own,
is a lamentably stupid start for a new movement,
if there is a movement.
♦
Some weeks ago a North Queensland parson—
Lev. James Gillespie, of Walkerston, near
Mackay—wrote a blazing letter to the Brisbane
Courier, about some real or imaginary Kanaka
children, born apparently in Queensland, whose
mother was compelled by the brutal authorities
to take them away to savagedom in the. Islands.
This was so absolutely contrary to the intentions
of the Act that the boss of the department wrote
in haste to Preacher James for the name of the
woman and any further particulars. And, like so
many other preachers, the Rev. James backed
out in this manner :
Mr. Douglas Rannie, —Dear sir,—Your letter came duly
to hand last Friday, but owinjr to my going away I had
not time to attend to it. I desire, however, to say that
as I do not suppose it is the intention of the Government
to do anything- in the way of making amends, I cannot
see my way to help them in trying to obscure the facts I
adduced. I, therefore, decline to forward any informa-
tion on the matter.—l am, sir, &c., James Gillespie.
Not once in a hundred times is it possible to get
the sensational and excited preacher to back
up his amazing narrative with details. In almost
every case, when he is asked for facts, he gathers
up his hymn-book and his hat, and says he
declines to hold discourse with the ungodly, or
something like that, and departs with a long
stride. Any decent layman, when he publishes
a gross charge against his fellow-man, feels bound
in honor to produce his evidence when called
upon, but the sensational parson seldom does.
He seems to be born with “ something lacking,”
the thing that is lacking being certain of the
instincts of a man and a citizen. In this
respect, the Rev. James is something beyond the
average, his avowed reason for not producing his
evidence being that, if he did so, the parties lie
had accused might then be able to clear their
characters—or, as he puts it, they might “obscure
the facts.” That is to say, they might obscure
them by producing some totally different facts.
♦
Premier Carruthers, of N.S.W., after playing
with the machinery requisite to the levying
of shires’ rates, and other matters pertaining
to the system of Local Government till
the eleventh hour, got scared, and engaged
an army of inexperienced clerks. Also,
he put the whole lot on overtime till 9.30
p.m. This army is officered by clerks taken
from other departments, and, in the hope
of getting a move upon his forces, Joseph
ordered the suspension of the regulation which
says that every clerk who works overtime shall
give two hours for nothing each day and only
be paid for the balance. He ukased that men
should be paid in full for each hour worked. This
generosity was hailed with delight by those con-
cerned. But they knew not Joseph. He has his
surplus to consider, so the regulation is only
partially suspended. The new temporary clerk
gets full overtime pay. The permanent officer,
who is putting in the same long hours
to keep things going in the departments which
Joe has depleted to get his shire work done,
plods wearily along every night, in the hopeless
endeavor to keep his work up to date with half
the usual staff, and earns exactly three-fifths of
the overtime paid to the new temporary clerk.
Pick and shovel men would not stand it. Wharf
laborers would apply to their union. But as a
civil servant wailed to The Bulletin : “ We have
no union, and James M‘Gowen is not interested
in our welfare.” And James M'Gowf.n might
fairly reply that the Civil Service has shown
mighty little interest in his or his party’s welfare,
and that the C.S. person’s aloofness has been so
vast that his grievances, like those of the hermit
crab, often escape the notice of a Laborite who
would gladly take a hand at redressing them.
♦
“0.K.”: Re the allegation that no N.S.W.
tweeds are to be seen at the Australian Manu-
facturers’ Exhibition in Melbourne. There is, as
a matter of fact, a “stand” of Marrickville
tweeds at the eastern end of the Exhibition
building, a little to the right of the centre avenue
of entrance. Also, there is a considerable display
of Albion Mills (Vic.) goods, and a glass case full
of Castlemaine woollens at other places in the
crowded show. But the intended effect of these
good Australian products is spoilt, in a great
measure, by their surroundings. The Marrick-
ville goods are environed by a brigade of tem-
perance-drink bottles,'and a shining display of
pumps and other metalmongery. The Albion
Mills “ stand ” is bounded by bold arrays
of pots and pans, pianos and tomato sauce,
whilst the case of Castlemaine woollens is put into
the shade by a brilliant revelation of starch. If
the three kindred exhibits had been allotted
spaces in a reserve for textile fabrics they 1 would
have attracted ten times as much notice as they
get under present conditions. The Exhibition is
a jumble of heterogeneous manufactures, less
strikingly instructive than it might have been,
but a great success, nevertheless. People who
have lately visited the Christchurch “Inter-
national” Exhibition are unanimous in saying
that the Melbourne show of things Australian is
the better show, apart from its sentimental
attractions.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “A Modern Judas.”
Her Majesty’s “Sunday.”
Theatre Royal. “ The Breaking of the Drought.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace Theatre “ The Kelly Gang.”
Bondi “Wonderland.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The New Clown.”
Her Majesty’s “ Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. . “ Dreamland.”
♦
“Leah Kleschna,” which does a brief sprint
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), will be remembered as
the rather remarkable stage-yarn of a young
French Deputy who doesn’t have to wait more
than 24 hours before he bumps hard against the
necessity for putting his own fancy theories into
practice". His idea is that, if you dig deep enough,
and put out drives and crosscuts at the right
levels, you must strike a vein of good in every
man and woman; and that it’s the business
of the State to develop the good, and not
spend so much money on gaols trying to root
out the evil. So when he finds Leah Kleschna,
daughter and pupil of old Kleschna, thief, of
Vienna, taking the family jewels, he doesn’t call
for the police—he talks to her. Sylvaine, of the
Deputies, has a lot of luck when he strikes Leah.
First of all, she had a good mother, and remem-
bers the fact; then she is sentimental, and has
ideas beyond a big fiat with four feathers in it.
But Sylvaine doesn’t know his luck ; so when
Leah weeps and says she’s really sorry, and comes
back next day in the appropriate black frock of
penitence, Sylvaine is so proud of his triumph
that he puts Leah’s name in his pocket-book,
and draws a red mark round it. It looks
as though she were the only “convert” Syl-
vaine ever made; any way, though there is
nothing whatever to suggest matrimonial in-
tentions up to the end of Act ,IV., he pursues
her to a Neustadt vegetable garden in Act V.,
and the wedding is taking place what time the
viscount at the foot of the d.c. stairs is yelling
down Pitt-street for “ Mrs. Foozlem’s carriage.”
Mrs. Foozlem, while she waits on the mat, no
doubt says it’s delightful; but if Miss Muggins,
daughter of old Muggins, the burglar, and herself
a distinguished purse-snatcher and pickpocket
for 10 years, proposed to marry young Foozlem
on the ground that she’d given up picking pockets
and turned scullerymaid, Mrs. Foozlem would
certainly say she was a brazen hussy, and call for
her salts and a policeman as well as her carriage.
Like the Chinaman and the Jap, these brands
plucked from the burning by the hero in Act IV.
are all very well until you are asked to accept
them for a son-in-law or a daughter-by-marriage.
* * * *
There is really no need, though, for
Sylvaine to personally pursue the matter to a
wedding. Obviously he can’t, without run-
ning some risks, repeat the deed if he continues
in the reform business. The most that is called
for from him is an occasional picture post-card.
Still, especially with Miss Brune’s following (all
the nice, good, soulful little girls in the com-
munity swear by her), there ought to be
wedding-bells in the last chapter; also, if
possible, an ivy-covered porch, and an old
vicar, but a wedding certainly. So there you
are. Yet, leaving out this fifth act, it’s
a good, serviceable story, with at least
four fine characters in it—Sylvaine, old Kleschna,
Leah, and Schram. Miss Brune shows more im-
provement as Leah than she has shown in any-
thing else. She used to be too explosive—remem-
ber how she banged the mirror and generally
ramped round in “ L’Aiglon ” ? She has dropped
that, and is acting with more brains. There are
great possibilities about picturesque old Kleschna,
hut the character doesn’t hang together too well
at present. He is supposed to be the great and
successful criminal, but he doesn’t show it during
the play. Thomas Kingston has Roy Redgrave’s
old part, and both of them leave one unsatisfied,
and with no very clear conception of what
the old chap really was. Gaston Mervale,
as the Deputy, breaks right away from Douglas
Gerrard’s reading, and puts some earnest reality
into the character ; Athol wood repeats hjs success
as Schram; and, of the minors, Miss Irby
Marshall, in the only gay moments of the
piece, lifts Sophie Chaponniere into the right
atmosphere, and Maurice Dudley aids and abets
her.
* * *
‘‘ I was educated at Eton and Oxford,
and” — “And then you joined the Service, and
were soon told to send in your papers ’cos you
was too smart at cards to suit your brother
officers,” replies the butler-burglar, who was
seven years in his last place (seven years’ hard).
The expensively schooled card-sharper, who pro-
vokes the reply, laughs “Ha-ha.” He always
laughs at serious things, and the more serious the
thing—such as gagging his wife and throwing her
down a well—the longer is the ha-ha. But the
villain’s clothes fit him beautifully, his hair
is charmingly brushed and brilliantined, and the
audience can hear all his villainous soliloquies
without effort. The good, persecuted young man
of the melodrama suffers from wool in his elocution.
All this has to do with the new melodrama, “A
Modern Judas,” staged at Sydney Criterion last
Saturday, by the Howard Dramatic Co. It
makes heavy demands on the audience’s credulity.
The villain goes a-robbing and a-murdering with
a greater lack of precaution and more open-air
candor than any other criminal this writer has
watched. A small Sydney newsboy would be
more secretive over the purloining of a penny
than is Captain Melville over the diamond rob-
bery and the attempted destruction of his wife.
• • * *
This is the story in a pill-box, A
diamond merchant named Rivers a most
gloomy person, well played by Harry Diver
—is robbed of £BO,OOO worth of gems by
Captain Melville and the Rivers’s butler. At the
moment of the' robbery the merchant dashes
through a secret panel of the room, and is
stabbed to death. The good young man, who has
just become engaged to Miss Rivers, dashes in by
the conventional doorway and is accused of the
robbery and the murder. The police are called
and the handcuffs put on. While the police are
seeking a clue and formulating a theory, a
comic groom unlocks the darbies, and the innocent
man dashes for freedom (this is the third dash).
He becomes a hunted outcast; and his betrothed,
who is certain of his innocence, sits on rocks, by
the loud resounding sea and asks in piercing
tones if there is no justice in Heaven ? Then she
puts white flowers on her murdered parent’s tomb,
and scornfully repulses Capt. Melville’s attentions.
The Captain has a wife already, and she is j D
rags and en route to commit suicide. Miss Rivers
is chloroformed by the villains and dragged off to
a hut; her hunted lover runs to her rescue • the
police dash in (this is the fourth dash), and so’does
the injured wife, who has been an eye-witness to
the murder and diamond robbery. After that all
is happiness and applause for the good persons.
The bad ones fall into the hot soup, and the vil-
lain’s bell-topper can just be seen boiling faintly
in the middle of the bowl, and the audience knows
that several wedding cakes will be ordered next
day. For it’s up to all the comically virtuous and
virtuously comic persons to get married. Jackson
Wilcox plays the r6le of John Vavasour, the per-
secuted hero. George Mountford is Captain
Melville. He, the capable Diver, and Sydney
Howard, as The Moochcr, are the only profes-
sional-like actors in the piece. Lilian Hallows,
as Claire Rivers, looks pretty in her mourning’
Miss Meade is a likeable old maid, and that about
ends the catalogue. “A Modern Judas” will
pursue his nefarious way until fate, in the shape
of a change of bill, overtakes him.
** * *
“ The Kelly Gang ” still rides, and shoots,
and dies triumphantly at Sydney Palace, and the
generation that has arisen since that thirty-years-
ago war peruses with delight the historical page
of blood, and bathos, and slain bobby, and stolen
beef. The show isn’t quite all Kelly Gang, but
that nefarious tale of gore fills so much of the
space that the rest hardly signifies.
t- -:K- # *
There is one joyful circumstance about
Bland Holt’s revival of “The Breaking of the
Drought,” at Sydney Royal: Walter Baker is
cast in a part in which he has absolutely no
chance to whine. But the best part of the drama
—better even than the absence of Mr. Baker’s
note of injured melancholy—is the scenery. The
tableau of the bush fire, and the unfortunate and
mistaken rescue of Gilbert Galloway, are great
painted events; Writer has seen two Aus-
tralian bush fires, and they were both
exactly like that which rages at the Royal.
Another streak of accuracy is the Hurricane
Club, and Yales, the colored comedian; they
bear a startling, although glorified, resemblance
to the famous, or infamous, Wind Club, which
was started in Sydney some years ago by a colored
comedian whose name wasn’t Yales, but some-
thing resembling it very closely. That very
unveiled allusion to the Wind Club makes for
popularity. But, if report speaketh truly, there
is a mighty difference between the Hurricane
Club at the Royal and the Wind Club that used
to rampage at the back of the Central Police
Station in Sydney.
».*■»*
Like many other melodramas, ‘ ‘ Breaking
of the Drought ” tries to compress a three-volume
novel into three hours’ acting, and the result is a
sense of fulness. The beginning of the story
is forgotten long before the end is reached.
And, sad to say, the teaching of the play is
strictly immoral. Gilbert Galloway, having
forged his father’s name when the old man had
been burnt out, and thus added insult to
injury, reduces the whole family to desti-
tution and Woolloomooloo lodgings. He goes on
his gay career, walking round Paddy’s Market
in evening dress with the lydies of the Hurricane
Club, and finds his ma running a coffee stall. The
old man has saved G. Galloway by acknow-
ledging the forged signatures as his own.
Gilbert apparently never stops drinking cham-
pagne for one moment, and he only resolves to
change his mind and mode of life when all his
money has run out, and his father has got back
to comparative affluence through being appointed
manager of his old station by the bank, then
Gilbert comes along, is forgiven for mother’s
sake, and taken to the bosom of the
family. If this isn’t immoral, what is?
The drama should teach emphatically that
the wages of sin are death and cheap burial.
The acting in the revival is as good as the quality
of the play will allow. The star part of old Mrs.
Galloway is cleverly done by Miss Maggie
Knight, who rises far above the merits of the
piece. Miss Harrie Ireland, of the beautiful hair,
has been the lovely adventuress so often now
that the character comes natural to her, and
although she has little opportunity she makes
the very best of what she has. Miss
Frances Ross is certainly good in the first
part, but where she gets into the Hurricane Club
her acting is severely overdone, and, as Mr.
Yales says, “If this is your unsophisticated
mountain daisy, then the bush for me. ’ That
same part of Freddy Yales, by Charles Brown, is
one of the bright things of the piece ; and Walter
Baker does better than this writer has seen him
do for the last five years. The Drought will con-
tinue to Break every night till further notice.
. * * * *
If ever there was a man entitled to sym-
pathy it was Mr. Donoghue, who allowed himself
to be inveigled into being married at “Wonder-
land City” (Sydney) last Saturday. On the
evening of the torture the groom and the
lady were corraled at Tattersall’s Hotel, in
Pitt-street, where the unfortunate man was
deprived of every chance of escape. A
swift motor whirled them away to Wonderland
City, where their faces were stained with walnut
juice, and their figures draped in some weird
Oriental garments, and they were loaded down
with jewellery that was bogus and gems
that were brum. The actual marriage took
place in the King’s Theatre, for the clergy-
man objected to perform the ceremony m
a howdah on Alice’s unsteady back. Imme-
diately the knot was tied the two were
placed in the howdah, and thence led out into the
glare of 30,000 pairs of eyes. Music rolled and
crashed, the confetti fell m showers, and sham
Hindoo girls danced and whirled their draperies.
The confetti got into Alice’s ears, and the old
elephant blinked and nodded as she wandered
round the paths and by-ways of the gardens,
while a vast mass of inquisitive and (much ot
it) envious female audience laughed and cheered in


Don’t neglect a cold. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy will cure it promptly. For sale
everywhere, Is. 6d.*
A Queensland dame has suggested to the
Melbourne Argus that the black gin may prove
an ideal solution of the servant gal trouble. Her
strongest argument is, “Wages vary; never ex-
ceeding ss. per week. Sometimes this is paid
partly, or wholly, in kind.” A section of Toorak
thinks seriously of cajoling Bent into the importa-
tion of a few shiploads of black Mary, the de-
lightful creature who runs wild in the Northern
Territory and who can be paid with a pair of old
boots and a pumpkin from the kitchen garden.
But Mary, in her native garb, boiling the ’possum
on an elaborate kitchen range at St. Kilda, seems'
only a dream.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Gets There Quickest
.All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/8.
Insist upon Fisher’s.
iva Drops in Water Half an Hour After Meals is
the Greatest Aid to Digestion Known.
POST FREE.
RELIABILITY TEST.
iSjaysassL-ar
mation of the stomach, with a burning- pain. My tongue
a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered
from Nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly
lomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years
PHO°Sp t H g E e RiN g F r f ef - 1 in three weeks PISH®
rhUtPHEEINE completely cured me. lam Noble
Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F. I been
mv mne°ss ge Five M „° St ° f the “embe™ know o"
r„ d ow in «"«• ™
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield this Twentieth
day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me,
A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
FISHER & COMPANY, Chemists, 337 George St., Sydney.
SPEEDIEST CURE FOR RHEUMATISM, NERVOUSNESS, KIDNEY AILMENTS, and SEASIOKNESB.
squeaky voices. When the elephant reached a
central spot a person in blafck ascended it aud
held the lady’s hand for a few moments. The
crowd thought he was marrying her, and the
women were deeply impressed; some of them
even started to weep. Then the show trailed back
to the King’s Theatre, where Manager Anderson
turned on champagne. The groom’s agony was
now almost over; he got into his own clothes,
and ceased to pretend to be a bedizened nigger,
and fled for home and mother in the manager’s
motor car.
** * *
Next Saturday at Wonderland City will be
a night of nights. The management reckons that
the thirst of gold will bring to Wonderland the
entire population of Sydney and suburbs. The
Poseidon Rush will be re-enacted. A nugget will
be buried on the beach, and everyone who
cares to buy a sixpenny spade at the gate may
prospect for the prize which the proprietor wiil
afterwards buy for £2O. Many bogus nuggets
will also be buried, but these will betray themselves
by the inscription on the box—“had again,” or
something like that. Still for a blissful second
the digger will think he has the Poseidon prize.
What will happen if the tide comes in whilst the
search is in full blast is not specified. Nor do
the nugget sponsors say
anything about what will
be done if, with the cussed-
ness of inanimate objects,
the gold is found almost im-
mediately by the very first
shoveller. Apparently the
only thing then will be to
hang out a notice “Nugget
found, Poseidon Rush burst
up for the night.” And
how much will it cost W.
Anderson to make the beach
presentable again after the
mob has dug it full of
craters ?
#* * *
These are days when
the largest stars at the Tivoli
are preparing to pack the
things they glitter with into
iron-bound boxes marked
“Not wanted on the voy-
age.” For, when you come
to think them over, numer-
ous recent stars have mainly
twinkled through their
properties—Chanti, for in-
stance, the man who is
many things in a little
while. But the long run
of juggler Selbo is still unbroken, and Gracie
Graham continues to sparkle daintily, and their
travelling trunks aren’t visible yet.
** * *
In “ The New Clown ” there is a new idea.
At a careless glance, the ludicrous situations have
an appearance of being filled with farcical charac-
ters, but when the matter is closely considered it
is found that only one character—the central one
—is of a farcical nature. The others do nothing
that is positively absurd, although in two or
three instances they seem stone blind to a
palpable fraud. Last year the Willoughby-
Ward Co. was successful enough in the attempt
to tickle Melbourne’s fancy with “ The Man from
Mexico,” an altered American comedy which gave
the audience little or no relief from its strain of
impossible circumstances. This time the same
co., making its reappearance at the Princess’s
without any danger of disappointing a too
extravagant expectation, is not unlikely to be
nioie successful than before. A little piece of
originality will sometimes go a long way in public
favor, or another little piece may fall as flat as a
pancake on the threshold of Lent. One never can
tell. “The New Clown,” at any rate, is only a
very little piece.
* * * *
The story differs at the outset from the
ordinary old tale of a fool flying from imaginary
trouble, and taking a new name. As a rule, the
cause of flight originates before the curtain goes
up. Lord Hugh Ward, an effeminate dilettante,
whose principal vice is a cigarette, arrives at his
woe in full view of the audience. He uninten-
tionally pushes an awful military captain off a
window sill into the river, and supposes his friend
has found the watery grave he deserves. Ward
is a grotesque Wilfrid Denver, suffering agonies
of fear on account of a corpse that never occurred.
A drunken circus clown has reasonable cause for
selling his business references and other personal
belongings to Lord Ward. So the seared little aris-
tocrat comes to be engaged to make a professional
A/r George Willoughby’s circus, where
Miss Grace Palotta is the proprietor’s coquettish
niece, and a star equestrienne in the arena. The
new clown surpasses all understanding. He is
too helpless and unmanly for words, but the girl
naturally softens to him owing to his gold-
mounted cigarette-case and his lovely match-box
and because he treats her “like a lady,” whilst
her sworn admirer, the circus Strong Man, is a
jealous dumb-bell shifter, who treats her more
uke his future wife. The clown, therefore, is
cordially smiled upon and encouraged, and
cross-examined by La Belle Palotta what
time his own best girl, who visits the
circus with her friends, is cut off from
inm by his disguise. A flimsy sub-plot is hatched
from a £5O legacy, which comes to the new clown
in his impersonation of the old clown. When
the misunderstandings are at last explained, the
circus staff pays homage to the lord whose great-
ness has been levelled to the sawdust. The most
inconsistent features of the performance are cer-
tain interpolated songs and dances. The dances
are brighter than the songs, but when the clown
shakes his educated legs he shatters his own pre-
fence of lordly incapacity for clowning. Also the
best song, which deals with the Fall of Adam,
must have been written by someone who had
never read his Bible and didn’t understand the full
significance of fig leaves in Eden. Hugh Ward’s
conception of the effeminate lord character is not
at all convincing in the first act. In the broadly
farcical incidents he is Ward at his best-weak of
voice and personality for so exacting a part, but
always a humorous, resourceful comedian, rather
than a mere player of the fool. Miss Palotta and
Willoughby are so well placed in their smaller
and easier parts that they look almost as im-
portant as the man who does most of the work •
Arthur Cornel] gives a rather clever sketch of the
beery old clown, and among the others who play
characters the two ladies are more satis-
factory than five or six men. A silent performer
(Joe Walhalla) snatches a burst of applause for an
eccentric skipping act, which suggests that it
would be advisable to introduce one or two other
such items (indigenous to the show), and cut out
the same number of incongruous ditties for the
principals.
** * *
This is the ninth week of the panto, at
Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), and the rumor that
next week will be its last sounds more truthful
than theatrical rumors in general. But the roots
of “Mother Goose’s ” popularity have struck very
deep down, and whilst the tree continues to yield
fresh crops of golden fruit it would seem a pity to
shift it.
*
“The Squatter’s Daughter” is destined to
fill Melbourne Royal for some weeks. The scenery
and fixings, as previously stated, are the most
admirable Andersonian achievement up to date,
and the labors of the orchestra deserve
special mention. There are few moments of any
particular importance when the band doesn’t
play. Music soft and s'ow, or fast and furious,
accompanies the drama on its wild Australian
way. The wickedness of the chief villain is pro-
claimed by lurid bars of infamy just before he
appears, and the perfume of the wattle is touch-
BARBAROUS.
Mrs. Barbary, at a meeting of mediums in Melbourne,
contended that Australia should be for Australians, and
that no foreign spiritualistic talent should be introduced.
Here we have a Chow spook trying to pass the
education test.
mgly indicated by the first cornets. This scribe
has forgotten whether the drummer bangs
his instrument when the elderly spinster from
England sits upon a bull-ants’ nest, but he thinks
the occasion is marked by a note of exclamation.
No trouble has been spared in the management of
“ The Squatter’s Daughter.” The scenic acces-
sories are so full of Australian color that some of
it has run, and the character that Miss Guildford
plays—an improper white daughter of the soil—
is tinged with native naturalness. All the same,
this country may be earnestly advised to aim at a
higher form of Australian drama than it is
getting just now in “The Kelly Gang” Biograph
and the highly-decorated production at the
Royal. A lot of Australian sentiment might be
stimulated by the scene of Waterfall Gully,
without dropping the bushrangers into the wet.
* #
Dreamland and Princes Court are issuing
concession tickets to meet the cool weather diffi-
culty. At the Exhibition of Manufactures a
furious final rush has set in, and the late comers
are just discovering that the Exhibition, at 6d.,
offers them the cheapest rush they ever experi-
enced at the price.
** * *
At Melbourne Opera House things remain
much, the same as they were last week, with the
addition of Antonio’s dogs and monkeys—animals
that astonished Sydney, and are now giving Mel-
bourne an equal amount of surprise. King and
Benson were to have departed ere this, but owing
to their Tremendous Success, the advt. says, their
season has been somewhat prolonged. Nothing
of that sort is likely to befall the four Kwerries,
who have come from a foreign land with a couple
of stale illusions, and seem unduly proud of them.
The average quality of the Rickards “first pare ”
has improved of late, two or three items being
conspicuously bright.
** * *
Harcourfc Beatty and Miss May Congdon
have had a “Midnight Wedding” at Adelaide
Royal for a whole week. Beatty makes a dash-
ing swordsman, though there are other men, not
up to his standard of acting, who could do the
thing quite as well. The play shows how people
who are shot or run through the body can be
about again, bright and well, within a week ; also
the villain has to ask many foolish questions —
“Who will prevent me?” “Why will you not
fight me ? ” and so on—on purpose to get regular
knockdown answers. But the piece goes with a
swing, and it lingers in the memory by pleasant
contrast with the dreadful thing that has replaced
it. “The Fatal Wedding ”is indeed deadly.
Fred Bluett is back at the Tivoli, and the Hippo-
drome has a Handcuff King.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Melb.”: Mr. William Ryan’s extremely interesting
recollections (B. 14/2/’O7) go backwards and forwards in
point of time in some matters. Allow me to straighten
out dates : The year 1855 was marked by three successive
Melbourne theatrical events : Brooke’s opening at the
Queen’s, the opening of the Theatre Royal, and that of
Ooppin’s Olympic. The year 1856 was signalised by
manager Black’s breakdown at the Royal, whereupon
Coppin and Brooke went there. Then ensued their part-
nership in Theatre Royal and Cremorne. In 1858 Brooke
ventured on the Royal management alone. He left for
England in 1861. Barry Sullivan came in 1862, Lyster in
1861, Mr. and Mrs. O. Kean in 1864, Dillon in 1865, Mont-
gomeri' and Anderson in 1867, Celeste in 1868, Mathews
in 1870, Ristori in 1873, Creswick in 1876. I don’t think
Rogers and Lambert acted together so much as Mr. Ryan
makes out. There was keen jealousy between them. I
have only come across one occasion when they acted
together in Melbourne. Mr. Ryan does not precisely
discriminate between Mr. and Mrs. Charles Young and the
brothers Richard and Frederick Younge—with an “e.”
“ F.” : He “ The Boomtime Stage ” (B. 14/2/’O7). If not
an impertinence, kindly permit me to point out some
errors. In 1862 Mr. Ryan opened in “ The Dream at Sea”
in the York-street (Sydney) theatre under “Paddy ” Bel-
field, and six months later he was engaged to support
G. V. Brooke. This tragedian did not arrive in Australia
until early in ’55, his first appearance at the Victoria
Theatre, Sydney, being May 15th in that year. Harwood
himself said that his first appearance w as made as Flavius
Corunna in “Brutus, or The Fall of Tarquin.” Brooke
did not open the “Iron Pot” (the Olympic). That
theatre was opened by Jacobs the Wizard, Brooke being
engaged elsewhere. Brooke and Lyster were not in
opposition; the former left Australia in 1861, and the
latter arrived in the same year and opened at the Theatre
Royal, Melbourne. Brooke did not marry Avonia Jones
in Australia ; they were married at Liverpool (England)
in 1863. And, by the way, who was “Bob” Young?
There were Richard and Fred Younge, and Charles Young
(without an “ e ”). Can’t locate Bob.
The New York American, just to hand, reports what it
calls a London scandal, and says the same W'as hushed up
and kept out of all the papers, by the influence of a
duchess. This is its yarn : Mrs. Beerbohm Tree had been
dissatisfied with the parts assigned her by her husband.
She was jealous of the Potter, when that beauteous clay
.appeared as Calypso, in “Ulysses.” Mrs. Tree took an
engagement wnh Waller, who is galvanising the Lyceum
as Irving’s successor, and who was formerly in Tree’s co.
Waller boomed her on the strength of her fashionable
reputation. Also, Waller has a motor car. Tree, in
allowing his Mrs. to go to Birmingham W'ith Waller, made
a stipulation that they were not to motor together. Mrs.
Tree broke that. She drove with Waller to the duchess’s,
the potent dame who keeps things out of the paper.
There was a fearful motor accident. Mrs. Tree was
carried to the duchess’s with her face so disfigured that
she can never act again. Then Tree came from London,
and shook his branches indignantly at Waller. That’s
the tale of the New York American.
Elsie and Ruby Baxter, for some time chorus orna-
ments with J.C.W., went to London last year. Miss Elsie
got an engagement with G. P. Huntley’s No. 2co. to play
sweet ingenues. Did well. Made a good marriage ;
doing better. Sister Ruby gets similar opportunity, and
is still enjoying it, with a rich, affectionate fiance in
waiting.
The £l5OO rhinoceros in the Adelaide Zoo is dead, after
24 years’ residence. It was supposed to be only a year
or two old when it arrived from Singapore, but “ senile
decay ”is officially given as the cause of death. Senile
decay of a rhinoceros sounds like nervous breakdown
of a pyramid.
“Hassan”: Madame Flaro, who, after pouring kero-
sene over her clothes, and applying a match thereto,
slides down a wire into a pond, had a rather narrow
escape of being grilled last week (13/2/’O7). I think that
half the pleasure of the looker-on at these foolish “acts”
consists of the fearful anticipation of an unhappy ending.
One fe Is just the same as toward the hero of a melo-
drama, or novel, but then it is only a diluted pleasure.
The hero runs frightful risks, but we know the author’s
hand is on the helm. In real life there is no one at the
helm. When the accident occurs, the pleasure that we
felt over its possibility becomes merged in sympathetic
horror for the victim. That is why the women who
cheered Madame Flaro as she slid down the wire shrieked
and covered their eyes as she dropped blazing to the
ground, and was rushed into the pond by an attendant.
But why not let our community give up the hypocrisy of
sham horror at Nero, who, being a good soul at bottom,
while enjoying the thrill and artistic effect of incan-
descent Christians, muttered “Poor devils 1” as they
squealed.
Louis Bradfield, the nimble, gentlemanly, little comedian
who was here years ago with the Gaiety Co.—-he was the
ideal Captain Ooddington of “In Town is working his
way up theladder in London. But it seems to be slow work.
The other day he was introduced to Mrs. Pat Campbell,
and moved away looking a little scared. “ Anything the
matter?” asked the Referee critic, who tells the story.
“Matter?” said Bradfield ; “I should think there was.
What do you think she asked me—me, the mummer who
has grown bald-headed in amusing the public? She
asked me.if I was on the stage?”
“ Snell ” : The eternal bushranger crops up in Ander-
son’s successful Australian drama, “The Squatter’s
Daughter,” a play made on the premises by a brace of
actors, and one shudders at the idea of the bushranger
becoming a convention of the local drama. Conventions
are stubborn things, particularly in melodrama. Once
they are established, it would appear to be impossible to
break away from them. Nearly all the conventions of
the British melodrama have descended to us from the
days of Richardson, and, if you repudiate them, the
patrons of sensation plays won’t believe your play is a
play at all, and won’t have it at any price. These con-
siderations make the painful recurrence of the bush-
ranger in plays of Australian manufacture a source of
great uneasiness to one who has hopes of living to see
the Australian market for melodrama largely supplied by
the Australian manufacturer. For heaven’s sake, let us
break with the ordinary blood-and-thunder bushranger
before he becomes chronic. Australia is no mean coun-
try, and is not so poverty-stricken in the matter of villains
that we cannot afford to abandon Kelly, Thunderbolt,
Starlight, Hall and co.
A case heard at a Melb. court last week threw a blaze
of light on the suburban theatrical business. Plaintiff,
who lost his case, had been manager of the Royal
Dramatic Co., and he claimed a third share of the profits
of the enterprise, which amounted, he said, to £45 in 22
weeks. The “ star ” artists were engaged at half-a-crown
a night, and, presumably, they drew their salaries,
although the margin of profit was sometimes very small.
Accounts for one night showed takings £1 13s. 4d., and
expenses £1 13s. 2d. Needless to state that the Royal
Dramatic Co.’s repertoire included “The Kelly Gang.”
But its most successful production was “ Poisoned Milk,”
a drama of domestic interest, which always appealed to
the ladies.
“F.”: Re “The Boomtime Stage” (B. 14/2/’O7).
“ Paddy ” Belfield’s proper name was Peter, a tailor by
trade, who was performing in Sydney in the early forties
in the City Theatre, Market-street, under Jce Simtnonds.
When the stage left Bellieid, he returned to his trade,
and in the early seventies was in business in Oxford-
street, near the Old Robin Hood Inn, between Edward
and Brisbane streets. While there he conceived the
notion that Woolloomooloo and Surry Hills should have
a theatre all to themselves. He opened negotiations
with Sydney Burdekin, who granted a lease of certain
vacant land in Liverpool-street, with a right of entrance
from Oxford-street. The site was about midway between
the old-time pub., the Blind Beggar, and the lane lead-
ing down to Yurong-street. A company was formed,
and the walls of the new building were run up some feet.
Then funds gave out, and the scheme collapsed. Sydney
Burdekin seized the bricks, and with them built a row of
cottages on the site. Mr. Belfield subsequently started
business in George-street, Brickfield Hill. “ One morn I
missed him on the. accustomed hill,” and found that he
had become a boniface at the Victoria Hotel, attached
to the Victoria Theatre, in Pitt-street. That was in 1878.
He played the part of host for a few years, and again re-
turned to his trade, this time in Liverpool-street, a few
doors from George-street. In 1889 he was gathered to
his fathers.
Geo. Musgrove’s advt. for grand opera choristers in
Melbourne, the other day, drew 650 applicants, 400 of
them girls. Very few were picked, the necessary coim
bination of good voice and ample calves being rare in
both sexes.
Definition given in a Fitzroy (Melb.) theatrical law-
suit :—“ What is an advance agent? ” “ Oh, he goes out
and pastes bills on the walls.”
“ Hiphen ”: St. Kilda (Melb.) has been transformed
from a quiet, respectable residential suburb into a howl-
ing Coney Island, and the outraged inhabitants, who are
highly “ clawss,” gnash their teeth helplessly and curse
the Council and its doings to ten places of decimal .
There are English Pierrots, a Royal British riding-gallery,
a French cinemetograph, a German band, Italian ice-
cream caterers, and numerous Yankee attractions —
“ straight from Coney' Isle.” The largest of these last
distractions is “ Dreamland,” which, to those residents
who live within range of its brass band, is a nightmare.
When all the shows get going, it is pandemonium, com-
pared with which a Judkins meeting is a rest cure.
“ Dreamland ” has a band of the most virulent type, the
merry-go-round has a steam hurdy-gurdy' with a reper-
toire of four tunes, the German band was made in Ger-
many, and some of the Italian music Was made
in hell. Some evenings these noises are augmented
by the efforts of the tramway employees’ band.
The latest and most thrillful Yankee importation
is a glorified switchback arrangement yclept “ Cutting
the 8.” When I first cut that 8 I thought I was going to
throw a 7. But it’s quite safe, and you obtain all the
sensations of an appalling catastrophe without the un-
pleasant after-effects.
A retiring person is the successful mummer. Edna
May, the original London Belle of hew York, has been
saying to an interviewer : “ Popularity—or, shall I say,
familiarity—is gratifying, but very embarrassing to one
who shuns publicity and desires only' to do one’s work
conscientiously and artistically.” On this Glasgow
News comments: “Miss May* shuns publicity' to the
extent of about forty' new photographs and a score of
interviews a week. Her efforts to remain in the back-
ground are a conspicuous success, of which other per-
formers are keenly’ jealous.”
The story of the escape of Eroni’s lioness at Bateman’s
Bay recalls an old-time incident somewhere in the Vic-
torian bush. between Creswick and Ballarat. A small
circus, coming down from Maryborough, camped for a
performance in the locality mentioned, but the very day
it arrived rumor reported the escape of one of the
animals of the unparalleled menagerie. Panic ensued.
Not a single soul turned up to the performance, but the
adjacent male populace went out with guns to suppress
the ravening animal. They didn’t find it, but in the
morning, shortly after daylight, one of the parties, dead
weary and footsore, and trailing its guns after it, came
to the circus, and found a bill on the tent, offering 2s. 6d. .
for the recovery of a vanished bandicoot.
In a November issue of London Express Archibald
Haddon furnished some figures showing the growth of
the mumming profession in Britain. Thirty-five years
ago there were in all the United Kingdom only 166
theatres, employing less than 8000 people ; now there are
over 1000 theatres, employing 32,000 persons, of whom
12,000 are actors and actresses. London at that time
had 45 theatres and practically no music-halls ; now it
has 800 theatres, music-halls, and concert-halls. Thirty-
five years ago there were only three travelling theatrical
companies; now there are nearly 300. The salaries of
“ theatricals ” in 1872 were less than £1,000,000 a year;
the amount now paid in salaries annually is fully
£4,000,000.
The Musgrove co. is to produce Meyerbeer’s “Le
Prophfete.” It was an eminent Italian tenor who, after
being praised for his many subtle performances of the
leading part in that opera, remarked that people talked
so much about it that he really must skim through the
libretto some day, and find out “who on earth this
Prophet is."
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report:—For our
seventeenth wool catalogue of the season we submitted
2413 bales, and disposed of by auction and private treaty
2192 bales. The selection was rather a miscellaneous
one, and included only a few superior clips, notably the
Goldswortb/v/New England, from Uralla, in the greasy
section, which sold up to 13fd. per lb. Scoureds were
represented by wools from various districts of N.S.W.
and from Central and Southern Queensland, the highest
price obtained being 22$d. for a small parcel branded
Caithness, well-prepared by the Alba Wool Scouring
Works, Watten, Queensland. The market as compared
with our last sale showed no quotable change. All care-
fully-prepared wools were keenly competed for, whilst
the irregularity noticeable for some time past on burry
and wasty sorts was still apparent. Our sales to date
total 55,933 bales.*
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is pleasant
to take. Children like it. For sale everywhere.*
Matthew Davies (knight), after years of
patient waiting in the shade, shows a disposition
to obtrude himself upon Melbourne’s notice once
again. Matthew is president of the local Law
Institute, in which capacity he helped to welcome
Chief Justice Madden on his return from Europe
the other week. A few days later he presided
over a meeting re the proposed Legal Benevolent
Fund. By a strange coincidence there happened
in the meantime the death of poor old Ducker,
the liquidator of a Daviesian bank and a one-
time sturdy spokesman on the subject of land-
boom financial operations. The revival of Davies
may have hastened aged Dueker’s decease. But
he was 86, anyhow.


Deafness Official Tests
■pHE Official Investigations of the Deaf are well described
in tfie ‘ BAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining- fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of the inner ear •
the Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises &c. &c. ’
3.nd bow to cuie yourself at your own homo with Dure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity
and No Ear-Drums necessary. - ’
The and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart
of 62 Bondlßoad, Waverley, Writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu
nate enough to hear of j ( our wonderful EAROSCOPE ”
A Retired Squatter writes : “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day " J
■ •An,: Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE 1' EAROSCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HOSE’S
..Celebrated Eye Lotion..
Is the National Remedy for Sandv
Blight, Swelling Blight, Inflamed
Eyes and Eyelids. It gives strength
to weak eyes and rest to the tii'ed.
Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion may be
used at all times by old and young with
benefit.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekes vs
throughout Australasia.
If not obtaincwce locally , send postal note for
IJ9 for a bottle , to the Sole Proprietors and
Manufacturers:
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
631 George St., Sydney.
r A f k tor Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
and refuse all Substitutes and Imitations.
¥
IF YOU WANT .
A GUINEA CAMERA
HARRINGTON’S ...
CAN SUPPLY YOU WITH AN EXCELLENT ONE.
Undoubtedly the Best
Value at the price ever
offered In Australasia.
G>?e Windsor-
Built of Well-seasoned Wood, covered with gained Morocco
Leatherette, handsome in appearance, Lens Rapid Achro .
Iris Diaphragms, Magnifiers for near objects, Time an<J *. •, j
taneous Shutter, Simple and Reliable Plate Changer.
Back Door for removing individual Exposed Plates.
Book of Instructions FREE. Postage on WINDSOR in N.S.W., 1/3 ;to other States, 2/2. AS
Oar “VICTOR” Cameras, No. 0 and No. U Price 30/- EVER e iNTRODUCED.
Our LARGE STOCK OF CAMERAS from the World’s Best Makers range in price from 7/6 to 25 Culneas.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
38© GEORGE ST., S y ® NEY
And 93 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
SOCIETY
It was the Australian Stab that launched
Carl Zeno on to the unprotected public of Sydney,
and, while he had the opportunity, Zeno made
things hum. Large headlines and a quarter
column of inky amazement at the wonderful
powers of its new pet started a wild rush of
fools, affluent and otherwise, to where Zeno hung
out his shingle in Eorbes-street. He was not an
ordinary fortune-teller, and did not read hands,
or go. into trances, or anything so common. He
started his shekel-raking with an imposing trick.
Anyone who had money to spare for a 10 minutes’
interview with Zeno wrote down his questions on
a small piece of paper, folded it twice, and placed
a forefinger on it. Zeno gat at the other side of
the table, drew a chart of the hand on a
piece of paper, and placed it over the
slip on which the client had his finger.
Having drawn a chart of the hand and
indulged in some occult talk, couched in horribly
bad English, he would beg the client to take his
mind right off the questions. As a rule the client
took his eyes off,them at the same time, and that
was when Zeno managed to extract the paper with
the questions from under the client’s hand if he
had previously failed to get it away while drawing
the chart. Picking up a piece of cardboard he
would lean back and “workout the horoscope.”
As a matter of fact, he was unfolding the paper
with the questions, and these he would proceed to
r ead out in a disjointed manner to the gaping
Jient and answer—also disjointedly. Then came
A DRY SPLASH.
THE HERE ( who has spilt wine on his neighbor): “ A thousand pardons, madam; but
foriunatlee it was zee dry wine."
the ticklish part of the business. The paper had
to be refolded and got back under the client’s-
finger, and the dummy Zeno had placed there had
to be slipped away. . This was the only scientific
part of the swindle, and as, a sleight-of-hand
artist Zeno must have taken a lot of beating.
Zeno was a sad example of a clever man handi-
capped by lack of education. He could nbt speak
cqrrectly, and deciphering the written word was
Ins weakest spot. So it frequently happened
that, after he had gone to all the trouble'of ex-
tracting the blessed paper, he was unable.,te read
the questions on it. As far as he was concerned the
writing was cuneiform. But his genius was equal
to all difficulties! Sometimes he would have the
questions written out afresh, and if the writing
was still unreadable he would explain gently
that his gift was—notr working well to-day.
But rthe. dady -• below’o di'd not " refund the
money. The client paid to see Zeno, and
having seen him and occupied his time for so
long, had got his money’s worth. When Zeno
started, he charged half-a-crown for five minutes.
The price jumped to ss. for three minutes, and
the rush increased. Then carriages and motor-
cars appeared, and prices soared up once more,
till a Week or so before his exposure he was
getting as high as 255. and 30s. for every 10 or 12
minutes of his time. He must have coined money
while he lasted. Some of the allegedly shrewdest
business men in Sydney consulted him regularly
before embarking in anything big, and were said
to have practically handed over the control of
their businesses to him. But ho names are sup-
plied and there have been no big financial smashes
of late, so this last item is somewhat discredited!
* * * *
Melbourne Continuation School* the
Socialistic institution which was started a year
ago to carry On the education of kiddies after
they have imbibed all that the primary schools
Cart teach them, has just issued its first scholastic
balance-sheet, and the Squeerses, Who raised
loud laments of coming trouble When it Was
projected, are down and out. Though it
has been going only a few months, the
Continuation School has put up a record
never approached by the multitude of private-
enterprise secondary establishments. It has the
Unique distinction of having scored 100 per cent.
Of passes with its half-dozen chemistry and draw-
ing pupils in the junior public examination just
Over. The Continuation School sent altogether
33 candidates for the examination* ahd 24
passed fully, eight Of the remaining nine hat-
ing to pass One subject only to Complete
their examination. The lowest aterage gained
by the Continuation School Was 71 per Cent, of
passes in Latin ; the whole of the private schools
Of the State gained 48'6 per cent, in the Same
subject. In chemistry and drawing, ih Which
every one of the State school candidates passed,
the private school percentages were : chemistry,
76 ; drawing, 29'4. In English the socialistic in-
stitution’s percentage was 97, that of Private
Enterprise 47‘5. Next to chemistry, the subject in
which the outside schools scored best was history,
74’5, while the Continuation School secured 96
per cent, in the same subject. No wonder the
private Squeers is bitter.
m * * *
Evil is a wide-spreading . thing, and the
consequences of it turn up in remote places. The
North Shore (Sydney) people have what they call
a septic tank for sewage at Middle Harbor. A
real septic tank is absolutely covered in, and in
the darkness organisms are developed which
destroy all the foul matter. What goes in is
sewage ; what comes out is clean water. Unfor-
tunately, the Middle Harbor tank wasn’t pro-
perly covered. Therefore, it wasn’t a septic tank
at all; only a bad smell a,nd a huge puddle of
refuse. Now that nefarious-bogus-sham tank has
spread as far as Geelong (Vic.). Geelong has a
clean party which Wants to get septic tanks for
the purification of the town, and a dirty party
which quotes that bad smell in Middle Harbor as
an evidence that septic tanks are of no use, and
as a reason for letting Geelong remain dirty.
That is as far as we knoiv the evil example to have
spread, but the same old beastly tank may be
serving, for all we can show to the contrary, as an
excuse for not cleaning up the alleys of Timbuctoo,
or as a palliation of the garbage in the streets of
Punto Arenas. The Bulletin feels inclined to
preach a sermon on the effects of bad example,
with the tank for a text.
Premier Bent is now preparing to build
four socialistic Queen Anne cottages on the
filleddn Elwood swamp, as an example of the
type of building Private Enterprise ought to put
up, but doesn’t. They are to be built of wood,
as the made ground isn’t deemed capable yet of
standing the weight of brick or stone. Melbourne
has, however, a vast area of land that isn’t liable
to sink and swallow up a building, even if it were
as heavy and substantial as Queen Bess; so the
haste to put up a flimsy Queen Anne affair on
ground that won’t yet bear anything less shoddy
than wood and hessian seems uncalled for.
SOCIETY MANNERS.
HOSTESS: “I suppose you often accompany songs, Professor ?”
PROFESSOR: “ More of den, gonversation, madam.”
“Flaneur”: A Stinking Fish daily set
going an article the other day .on “ Buenos Aires,
the finest city in the Southern Hemisphere,” and
all,the little Stinking Fish papers are giving, the
yarn a wider circulation, on the principle that
pretty well anything is better than Australia.
It started with a Chambers’s writer, who called
Buenos Aires a “ Queen City filled with Parisian
attractions,” The facts : Most of the streets are
narrow, and two tram-tracks occupy
them so fully that vehicular traffic is
possible in only one direction. To
allow vehicles to go both ways in some
main streets only one tram-track is
laid. The fashionable street, Florida,
is but.6oft. wide. Parisian attractions !
,In Music ? The opera is irregular,
poor and dear ; theatres and actors are
fourth-rate ; the music halls are un-
speakable. In Art ? The Buenos Aires
art gallery consists of half-a-dozen
narrow rooms on the first floor of a
business building, and the paintings
and sculpture are only fit for distri-
bution by the Eight-Hours Art Union.
In Literature ? Argentina has no litera-
ture if one excepts the pedigree stock
books of cows, horses, pigs, and sheep.
Its great journal, La Prenza, is about
as well-written and conducted as La
pRESSE, in Paris, and every traveller
knows the worth of that. Most houses
in Buenos Aires have flat roofs, where
the citizen stores his rags and empty
bottles, and brings up his fowls and
dogs. The roads are made of cobble-
stones in the city and mud in the
suburbs. The lighting of the squalid
streets is imperfect. Perhaps the
Parisian attractions are the cafes,
where vile cocktails of bad liquor are
sold at a shilling, and backblocks
“swanky ” at sixpence.
The . faded, crooked tail-end of George -
street, Sydney, down by Circular Quay, is to be
widened to 90ft. It isn’t nearly enough, but even
that ' concession was only gained at the last
moment; the C’ruthers Government was on the
point,of selling its resumed allotments and leav-
ing only 80ft. of a roadway. Some day Sydney
will have to face the problem of making George-
street a straight, imposing avenue at least 100 ft.
wide, instead of a highway of varying width
which still follows the tracks of the old teamsters
as they dodged the stump of century before last.
There was a chance to make a fair beginning of
the work, but the present N.S.W. Government is
a Ministry of lost chances.
SWEET FANTASY.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
As I went up on Selsby Hill,
On Selsby Hill—
As I went up on Selsby Hill
Early in the morning—
The poppies in the fields of corn
Were crimsoning to the crimson morn,
As I went wandering, all forlorn,
On Selsby Hill in the morning !
There was a maiden fair to see,
Fair to see 1
There was a maiden fair to see
On Selsby Hill in the morning.
Her eyes were clear as a summer moon,
Her lips as red as a rose in June,
Ah ! as she sang the wild wind’s tun.q
On Selsby Hill in the morning ! . •
“ What is thy name ? What dost thou here
On Selsby Hill ?
What is thy name ? 'What dost thou here
On Selsby Hill in the morning ? ”
“ I know' not what I do,” said she ;
“ My name it is Sweet Fantasy,
And there are many who seek for me
O'n Selsby Hill in the morning.”
With that she kissed me, free and full,
Free and full;
With that she kissed me, free and full,
On Selsby Hill in the morning ;
And I forgot, forgot again
The moons that wax, the stars that wane,
And I forgot both Joy and Pain
On Selsby Hill in the morning.
And then she laughed, and fled away,
And fled away ;
With that she laughed, and fled away,
On Selsby Hill in the morning.
False is she, and fickle is she,
Sweet Fantasy, Sweet Fantasy !
Ah ! but she kissed me, full and free,
On Selsby Hill in the morning !
England. Dora Wilcox.
* * * •
The captain of the s.s. Indravelli tokH h-
Customs Inspector Christie that he need n° (
worry about the Chow sailors on his ship— “^ ol |
couldn’t drive them ashore; they are too fond o
my ship ” Alas for Asiatic guile and Orienta
deceit! Three of them proved so fond of the
boat that they went ashore, and even a£45re"'ar fl
failed to bring them back. Now the Comw 011 '
wealth’s balance-sheet shows an asset of £300 an
a liability of three Ah Sins. _
MAN AND THE FLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Man,
Like a fly,
Crawls on the rollers—
The smooth, irresistible
Rollers of Life.
Squelch i
Mid the din
Hear the Sharp buzzing.
And see the dim smudge drt the
Fitiless steel I
Man !
Artd The Fly I
Who is the Miller ?
Here we stand questioning,
Side by side valiantly—
Me and The Fly.
vio.
KODAK.


A certain effect of bad drinking,water is
bowel trouble— Wolfe’s Schnapps will, keep the
bowels m perfect order. Caution.— There is no
genuine aromatic Schnapps but ‘‘Wolfe’s.”
Call it by fjts full name * 1 '■ ■> '
A few doses of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy will cure your cold, and perhaps save a
doctor’s bill later on. It always cures.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THIS
NOTABLE
HAT.
]
w
E use the word
“notable” because
this hat is the best
thing-in Soft Hats
yet offered, and
because we have
sold a great number of them.
The shape is entirely new.
It makes a good shade hat
and can be worn turned up
or down like a Panama.
It is light and is ideal for
both country or city wear.
Colors:
FAWN and LIGHT GREY.
BRIMS : 2j, 2J apd t 2f incljie^
PRICE
Please state Size When Ordering,
Post Free
13/3
PEAPES ACO,, Ltd.
flen’s anjl Boys’ Outfitters,
309-311 Qeorge-st., Sydney.
About the sadde&t vessel that roams the
sea is the Italian sailing ship. It generally takes
120 days to go a distance that any other vessel
would cover in ,70; it is mostly old ; almost always
slovenly ; and it has a capacity for getting lost
that is incredible. Last week a Roman vessel
that had been out 36 days from Sydnev, and was
fondly supposed to be near South America with
its 2400 tons of coal, came ambling back. It
hadn’t even got as far as Maoriland. While
washing about and getting no forrarder, seven
men—three Englishmen, three Australians and a
Frenchman—went on strike, and the 11 Italians,
not feeling equal to the occasion, turned the craft
round and wallowed back to Sydney to get expert
opinion. It is to be hoped that South American
town isn’t in a hurry for its coal.
* * * *
Rev. John Dixon, known to his flock as
‘‘plain John,” who has succeeded the now Bishop
of Bendigo as pastor of St. Philip’s, Sydney, re-
cently announced at the conclusion of his sermon
that he had found a Tattersall’s sweep ticket in
the Sunday-schoolroom, and the owner could have
the unclean thing by applying at the vestry.
When the rev. gentleman proceeded thither he
was surprised to find about three-fourths of his
congregation waiting for him. (The last part of
the story is pure invention.)
GOT THERE
ALL THE
SAME.
HE: “ Would
you be very
angry if I
kissed you?”
HER: “Of course
I would.”
HE: “ Well, I’m
going to do it
all the same,
because you’ll be just as angry if I don't, now!”
The crusade of the calico sellers against
the respectable-looking shop-lifter struck a snag,
tiimj r W^en an elderly woman recovered
£2OO damages from a Sydney Universal Provider
for alleged wrongful arrest. The shop-owner’s
case wq,s that someone told him the elderly party
was seen taking goods off a counter. She carried
them wrapped in an old bag, and could not pro-
duce her receipts or identify the sales-lady who
served her. tale wa& that all* ladies behind
counters are as like as peas in a pod, and no old
female could be expected to tell t’other from which.
She said she had dropped her receipts somewhere,
and that she wrapped her purchases up like that
because the paper cover came undone and also
dropped somewhere. She said she was a respectable
female, who was suddenly arrested about l p.m.
ur ed in a cell at the police-station until
10.30 p.m., when she was bailed out. She added
that the police collared.even her.tram fare,’and
left her to walk home, and she -asked for. £4oo to
square it. Two juries have believed the widow’s
tale, and the second gave her £2OO.
A person who has been little before the
public of late broke out twice last week in
N.S.W. At Broken Hill, the lodger fired at the
family, and did little damage; at St. Peters
(Sydney) the husband shot at the lodger, and how
there is a lodger less in the world. The Broken
Hill man was really an ex-lodger ; he just 'called
in at his old residence, and fired generally,
without any serious results. The St. Peters
lodger had, a really bad grievance, but, being
dead, he doesn’t know it now. He appears to
have been a very old man, suffering under the
unjust suspicion that he was a gay young dog.
According to the story, a loafing Maori lander,
named Leith, married an Australian girl some
three years ago, but as he never supported her
she went back to her mother. The mother helped
to maintain herself by taking in an ancient
boarder, and last week the Maoriland man came
round with a gun, and extirpated this humble
source of revenue. He afterwards shot himself;
but that is a side issue. The real point involved
is that it seems almost equally dangerous to keep
a lodger and to be a lodger. Between the irritated
young boarder who shoots at his landlord, and
the infuriated husband who shoots the old
boarder, it looks as if it would be a great deal
safer to c' .np out. •
* .* * *
There is a strong movement in Adelaide
to bridge the long gap from Oodnadatta tq Pipe,.,
Creek, on the transcontinental railway—nabout
1100 miles, by a motor-Car service. An offer has
been made to send two cars through for £6OO.
They would survey a track, and then make >-a'n :
offer for regular trips. Albert Macdonald,'
who has cycled the whole wav, tells Ade-
laide Register that, except" for thick,
scrub, the only obstacle should be the sand—
but that is a terror. For 40 miles above Char-
lotte Waters there are sandhills every mile or so,
“ and some of them are as high as the G.P.0.”
By a mysterious but well-known natural law,
they slope off on the south side, but are abrupt on
the north. How a motor-car is to deal with them
is difficult to see. Going north it might climb up
and fall down. Going south it would apparently
have to fly up and roll down.
Nowadays almost any boy and any girl-
child whose frock comes down a little below her
knees can get married in Sydney. The marrying
parson takes chances. He is near-sighted* and
doesn’t notice the extremely youthful appearance 1
of the pair. Often he has lost his spectacles..
Sometimes he forgets to inquire, and sometimes
the two infants say boldly that they are of age,'
and occasionally they present a document written •
in an unformed, childish hand, which purports to
be the father’s formal consent. As a rule,
nothing happens; but once, many years ago,
somethingdid happen in Sydney. “Bishop” Bailey
got six months in gaol, without the option,
for marrying a boy who hadn’t got over the
habit pf blushing to a girl whose short skirt made
a glaring exposure of two serviceable legs, p
“Bend Or” : The snobbery of the sub-
urban person is a sad and curseful thing to
dwell op. A.humble artisan or civil servant
sticks up a one-eyed structure, jammed’close
against other like architectural ' microbes,
and forthwith he brands it with the sign of
the snob, “Windsor” or “St. Ives,” or
some such banal thing. In my immediate
neighborhood, which is a humble ope in
the bye-ways of Sydney, there are so many
“Cora Lynns” as to lead me to believe
that the original Cora was a lady of parts.
“Hampden,” “Mona,” and “Parsifal” are
a queer mixture. Then a fellow I know stuck
up over his single-fronted four-rooms and
“ ’ceteras ” the name “ Welbeck.” Amongst
the better class of dwellings, villas and
mansions, native names predominate. Touch-
ing the latter, I have a fact to tell.. A
fellow went over West in the nineties; arid
made a big and golden smite. Coming'
back he built a spacious and ornate 'villa.
“ replete,” as the house-agent says, all
modern conveniences, in a street w,here
dwelt the sleek and purse-fat. Bill wanted
a name for it. “Something OsStralian,” he
put it. He sought out a person who had the
reputation of being an aboriginal expert,
and who was also a great sinner. Shortly
there appeared a word over the gaudy en-
trance, the English of which
would have got anyone three months. Bill
got married, and in the fullness'of-time Mrs.
Bill increased the population by.a little Bili
and a Billess. BH triumphantly advertised
the fact in all the leading newspapers of the
continent, and gave the aboriginal,a y ddress,
in full. He got about 78 letters of remon-
strance, and now his house has no” name—
it is simply “No. 18, Fish-street.”
“ Stony ” : There is a horrible' mahima
at present in Melbourne who is. doing
her best to destroy her four-year-old
son and heir by “ dolling him' up ” in
the same manner in which she-mal-
treats herself. The poor kid isPauntle-
royed as to his clothes, has his hair dyed
yellow, and is lip-salved and rouged and
powdered until he looks like a wax doll. This
is the kind of youth who turns out in the
end to be a burglar—from the same causes
which make a clergyman’s daughter into a
Painted Lady—or, following in the way in
which he is dragged up, he may be a pretty
young man who sells lace and feminine’
fal-lals across a counter groaning with corsets and
silk petticoats.
The Northern Territory, that land of
weird isolation, has been the refuge of many
Australians who were commonly supposed to
have fled to South America, and whose footmarks
were sought for in vain round Ohili and Bolivia, and
other far-off places. JVfanymust have perished
in the attempt to cross the great waterless plains
while on the trarnp to their intended place of
exile. Many got to their destination and lived
there for years without disclosing their identity,
and in the end died as naturally as one can in the
Territory. Many shot or hanged themselves
under assumed names, when the weary immensity
of South Australia’s white elephant became too
dreadful to be borne any longer. It is calculated
that 300 men have died in the. Territory,- mostly
by suicide, during the last 30 years, without leav-
ing a reliable name, or an address, or a trace of
their identity. They were Bill—just Bill of the
Territory. One suicided near the Victorian
River Depot, the.other day. He was supposed to
be a native of N.S.W., and to have once been a
citizen of some tonnage, till he “ did something.”
He left £l3 and a number of horses to help out
Premier Price’s surplus.
What to do with a.n ex-Governor was, one
time, a British Government puzzle. Mrs. J. R.
Wood, of Newcastle, provides a hint. That
esteemed lady has invented a new dog kennel—a
white-painted cedar thing for travelling dogs—
and has sent 11 of her terriers so housed to
England. Also she has obtained from Earl
Carrington a promise that he will personally look
after the consignment on its arrival.
*'* * *
Sydney Telegraph stole a march over its
rivals by securing an account on the spot from the
shipwrecked crews recently rescued from Lord
Howe Island. When it was announced that the
Government intended to despatch a relief steamer
to the island, the Telegraph announced that its
reporter 'would be.,on boa,rd. To the paper’s
astonishment the usually complaisant Premier re-
fused to have the ’Graph man on board, where-
upon the o£her papers didn’ t trouble to send men.
But when , the relief vessel had finally lost the
South Head light, the ’Graph reporter wap dis-
covered sweetly smilihg oh thje eoal-Jieap, and as
no one had the courage ! to, throw him ov.erboard
his paper achiev'ed' something like a scoop!
An unusually intelligent.. Melbourne city
councillor lately referred 'to the fact that the main
streets of the city are disfigured by old rattletrap
perambulators and’shelters constructed of worn-
out packing cases, wherein newsvendors, often
ancient and unpicturesque, sell their papers. He
suggested‘that the city might substitute kiosks on
the Parisian system: Then a dingo-like howl of
indignation arps^agdyapped .through the premises.
One by pne a series of cquncillore swarmed up to
announce that they Would have no hand in
depriving these unfortunate old men and women
of their livelihood. Logic of this sort always
clinches matters in the Melbourne City. Council,
and the original councillor skt down humili-
ated and wished " that , the floor had a
vampire trap in it to let him drop through
out of sight. Had, he known a little more
of his subject he; might have explained how
much better off is. the Trench ; newsvendor
than the Australian-. -The Parisian kiosks arq
permanent rainproof shelters. They flave windows
all round, and only the one on tlje lee-side isjopen
for thesalq of newspapers.. They are. in variably -
fitted with charcoal stoves, which keep tbe ocqu-
p mts warm in the coldest weather, and'admit of
them having warm meals and a cup of tea when-
ever they feel inclined. The leaky, windy stands
of Melbourne are a cruelty to the aged news-
vendors.
The N.S.W. Supreme Court has granted a
new trial in the case; of the Sydney Harbor Trust
v. Wilson, in which some £440 of wharfage rates
are involved. Briefly, the Railway Department
imported some locomotives in little bits from
America, but would not take delivery until the
engines were on the railway and under steam. On
their arrival—in bits—in 1905, the Harbor Trust
claimed wharfage dues, not from the Railways,
which were to ultimately own the locos*, but from
a firm of middlemen that did the indenting. For
18 months a legal war has raged re the liability
of the Railway Commissioners as owners of the
engines. If the Railway Department was the
legal owner when the goods arrived, it is exempt
from wharfage dues. The State is in a curious
position.- Its costs already are more'than £440.
Should the Harbor Trust win, the middlemen will
simply tack the wharfage on to the cost of the
engines, and the State will lose. Should the Har-
bor Irust lose, the State loses the case equally,
and pays piles of costs on top of all. And, even
if at great expense a principle is established, the
State still stands to lose, as, in future contracts,
the middlemen will charge up all wharfage before-
hand. To allow; one State Department to waste
huge sums in suing another only means that the
State must pay the costs, and it is a fool of a
game. There should be a Minister with power to
arbitrate between Departments. • And, anyway,
why import the locomotives at all ?
* * ’
As The Bulletin expected* the “romantic
story ” of the Russian lovers, whom an enraged
general was supposed to be chasing over the
earth, turns out to be mostly fairy tale and
neurotic temperament. It is said now on good
authority that Madame had been under treat-
ment for some time for nervous breakdown when
sbe eloped with her alleged captain, and that her
general held that young invalid person in such
profound contempt that his journey to New
York and Paris was solely to make arrangements
for his wife’s financial comfort and ease. She can
return to-morrow if she likes, he says. Mean-
time, however, though the bottom is out of the
“romance,” the couple are patching up the leaky
vessel and imagining that it’s brand new, and the
anaemic captain delights in seeing spies behind
every lamp-post.. What he really needs is not a
sweetheart so much as a doctor and a month or
t-wo on a- dairy farm.
WHO’D LACK A LASS?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out on the drowsy river
Rose-gold and love-light quiver...
Who’ll loiter on the path to bliss
A-down the river’s brim ?
Gay hills and gullies brighten,
Sweet honeysuckles whiten...
O who would lack a lass to kiss
And wander far with him ?
Dear eyes and wind-blown tresses,
Soft summer idlenesses,
Serene, heart-warm philosophies—
No more I wish, not I,
Ere wintry tear-fall numb me,
And death-chfll overcome me,
But teach a lass the mysteries
Of love and tear and sigh !
Too brief, too blind, our reign, love,
Yet were yye .wondrous vain, love ;
In flowery meads elves laid our couch,
Stars were our tiring-maids...
Now violet-heart is riven,
Brown summer-leafage driven ;
No witnesses remain to vouch
For love, save hapless shades.
When dream-blooms droop and wither,
All wind-blown, hither, thither,
And soughing low the night-wind’s is
A drearsome sound to hear,
And haunted night-birds flutter
Against the secret shutter...
O who would lack a lass to kiss,
A dark-eyed damsel dear ?
N.B.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
AGODDESS
[For The Bulletin.]
r 7~'HE morning When she dawned
J upon my sight
My breath came fast, my heart beat quickly , too;
Robed in pink raiment, like the sun’s first light,
She seemed an angel whom no man might woo.
When next her presence breathed a perfume
sweet
My heart grew sad, though all the head ns
were blue ;
Tall, slim, Well-tailored,
nice enough to eat,
: She still looked
too divine for
me to woo.
At dinner-time, amid the
lamps’ red gloiv,
Though goddess she ap-
peared from crown
r -0, to shoe, ■
A daring hit of chemisette
' did■ show,
And", brought her down
to earth for me to
woo.
H.C.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
English Machinery, vix.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
BruntoiTs Scotch Jlre Rope Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
ROBEYS
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Chairman Robert Harper went att lilcb or two
deep into the affairs of the Assets Trust for the first
time at the meeting of the Commercial Bank Of Aus-
tralia. Five years ago the then flew general manager re-
valued the assets of the Trust alone at £1,800;000 ; its
liabilities were £3,334,903, ieaving a deficiency of
£1;534,903; Since then “ properties Which Wete valued
at £479;566 have been sold for £503;752; thus realising a
surplus of £24,186 over valuation.” The assets of the
Trust ate now valued at £l;33o,ooo—that is, £470,000
less than irt 1901. So the Trust has sold £479,566 of
assets (at a profit of £24,186 oVer valuation!, ahd has re-
duced the Valuation of assets by only £470,000. It has
apparently written’ up the remaining assets a trifle
(£9566) ; but what has become of the £24,186 of profit ?
No doubt, as the whole business is based on the general
manager’s estimate, the g.m. is entitled to build
dp a reserve fund to protect the balance of
his estimate ; if he has done better than he
expected over some assets, he is entitled to
have something up his sleeve as a set-off to possible
deficits when he comes to sell the unsold assets. From
time to time, however, those interested are entitled to
know how that suspense account is looking. It is satis-
factory that the estimate so far has panned out so well.
Viewing the Trust and the Bank as one combined con-
cern, in five years, apart from this £24,186 in suspense,
and accepting- the general manager’s estimates, the net
deficit has been reduced by £356,065, of which £208,565
represents profit and £147,500 forfeited capital. There
still remains £1,151,219 of a deficit (still, cßmbihing Trust
fthd Bank figures); and if it has taken five years to wipe
mlt £208,565 of deficit out of profits, it would take 27 to
Wipe out £1,151,210 at the same rate. “A” deposits have,
noWeVer, been got rid of, and “B” deposits (quoted at
I7s.)are being bought back ; moreover, the Bank’s profits
from new business are increasing fairly rapidly (though
against that must be put the possibility of an'increased
dividend to preference shareholders) ; so the process of
wiping out the ghastly deficit is likely to be expedited.
The situation at one time looked desperate, but there is a
gleam of light ahead.
• • • •
The Citizens’ Life Assurance Co., Ltd,
Ordinary Life Department,
Expenses
(including Writ; Added
Divi- ten to
Dec., Income. Claims. dertds). off. Funds.
1896 .. £55,483 £16,101 £8,322 £31,060
1897 .. 70,012 14,630 10,502 £i73 44,707
1898 .. 98,262 18,012 14,373 7,000 58,877
1899 .. 124,841 22,276 18,726 375 83,464
1900 .. 145,531 41,252 17,891 • 86,388
1901 .. 168,520 34,282 26,584 107,654
1902 ~ 197,424 34,492 27,533 245 135,154
1903 .. 217,062 39,472 29,766 147,824
1904 239,820 58,450 31,894 i,53X 147,945
1905 .. 255,130 64,962 33,545 20,572 136,051
1906 .. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). off. Funds.
1896 .. £146,647 £60,362 £74,630 £11,655
1897 .. 156,144 72,022 83,955 107
1898 .. 156,493 61,557 78,710 £194 26,032
1899 .. 165,514 53,125 92,968 143 19,278
1900 .. 176,406 49,398 98,681 228 28,099
1901 .. 184,112 43,649 99,756 42 40,665
1902 .. 188,688 41.707 110,234 36,747
1903 .. 192,491 53,543 103,860 35,088
1904 .. 201,166 58,169 89,596 53,401
1905 .. 199,426 51,095 84,039 8,577 55,715
1906 .. 205,910 46,757 75,251 849 83,053
This office works on different lines from those
of other Australian offices; and you could argue from
here to Cape York on the question whether it is the
management or the principle that is responsible for the
unquestionably fine results it is beginning to snow. The
management, being modest, asserts that the success lies
with the principle. The co. is a proprietary concern.
But its success is due to two facts, among others.
(1) The proprietors, besides being able men, are still
mostly the managers of the concern, in some capacity or
other. (2) While it thus gets, so far, the full advantages
of the proprietary system, because so far it is prac-
tically a profit sharing system, the evils of the proprietary
system are whittled away; for dividends are limited,
and the co. can’t grab more than than one-fifth of the
profits out of which bonuses are paid. In return for the
concession of a share in the profits, the co. guarantees
that the expenses (in the ordinary branch) shall not
exceed 16 per cent, of the total income. The weak point
in the business is that, while the policy-holders put up
the vast hulk of the money—in this ease, lumping the
two branches together, £1,782,609—and the shareholders
put up only £20,090, the shareholders run the whole
business. But the weak point under the mutual system is
that, though nominally the policy-holders manage the
whoie business, in actual practice “ the office ” (or, as the
Americans call it, “ the administration ”) wins every
time. It should not be so, but it is : even such scandals
as there have been in America were not sufficient to
neutralise the inherent advantages of “ the office ” in any
really serious contest. The success of the Citizens’
certainly doesn’t mean, though, that proprietary offices
have only to put up a brass-plate in order to succeed :
they have only a hope of succeeding, in fact, when the
proprietary element in the undertaking has its claws cut
or hidden. And if they are only hidden it can’t succeed
for long. The Citizens’ founders, wanting their office to
last, showed their wisdom in nothing more than in
deliberately cutting the claws at the very outset: the
pruning was part of the constitution.
The excellent organisation of the Citizens’
office, however caused, shows up in the rapid decrease in
the expense rate :
Expenses Per Cent, of Total Income.
Ordinary. Industrial. Ordinary. Industrial.
1895.. 0 0 £53 16 0 1901..£15 15 6 £54 3 8
1896.. 15 0 0 501710 1902.. 131811 58 8 5
1897.. 15 0 0 53 15 4 1903.. 13 14 3 53 19 1
1898.. 14 12 6 50 511 1904.. 13 511 44 10 9
1899.. 15 0 0 56 3 6 1905 . 13 3 0 42 211
1900.. 12 511 55 18 9 1906.. 12 10 2 36 110
It is all right to look at it that way from the point of
view of the staff ; but the policy-holder may look at it
differently. The claim is that the policy-holders get a
more efficient service on account of the principles on
which the office is run ; and they have to pay one-fifth of
the profits to get that efficiency. So that one-fifth must
be added to the cost. The actuaries’ report says there is
a surplus of £50,384 available, of which £49,301 is to be
divided “in accordance with the articles of association ”
One-fifth of that, or £9860, must, therefore be
added to the expenses in the ordinary branch. Taking
that in with the other expenses, the rate is
£l6 os. lOd. per cent, of total revenue. That is the
total cost to the policy-holders ; and only one office in
Australia shows up better. Industriarbusiness is not
affected by the proprietors’bonus; it has to carry the
dividend, however, and that amounts to £2OOO a'year
Yet, including that, the total expenses (£36 Is lOd p c )
show a far lower rate than any other Australian office
and; it is claimed; show' the lowest industrial rate in the
World. It is something for an office to be proud of. In
both Branches the dost of hew business is very small.
Take the ordinary. Add to expenses (agaih; by the way;
why are they described as “ net ”?) the amodnt written
off, £396. Charge renewal premiums with 5 p:c. of their
total for expenses, and charge the amount received for
Annuities with 3 p.c. ; then the balance, representing
the price of new business, will show that the latter cost
only 76 - 6 p.c. of the total first-year premiums. In the
previous year the cost on that basis was 79 p.c. No
other Australian office got within 30 p.c. of that.
Yet the bonuses at present are not very large.
There is £49,301 to be divided, of which policy-holders
get £39,441. The profit-sharing policies pay premiums
amounting to £219,223 ; so the available bonuses equal
18 per cent, of the premiums. But, as a partial set-off to
that, it has to be noted that the valuation is conducted
on the assumption that as little as 2J per cent, will be
earhed—the lowest rate assumed by any office in Aus-
tralia; This has the effect of reducing the present
bonuses; bdt it gives ah assurahce of large bonuses in the
future. And, further, the Citizens’goes for safety rather
than high interest, as this distribution of the assets
shows
Public Mort- Other Free- Cash;
Securities, gages. Loans; holds; Sundries;
1895.. 7*3 p.c. 38 - 6 p.c; 2 - l p.c. 27*4 p;C; 24"6 p;C;
1904.. 28-7 ,; 40-7 ; , 6-5 ;; 18*9 5‘2
1905.. 33-3 ,; 38-0 ;; 6*5 ;; 16T ;; 6*l ;;
1906.. 49-7 „ 29-1 ,; 5*7 11 ; 2 „ 43
The result is a comparatively low fate of earnings :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £3 19 4 per cent. 1904 .. £4 6 1 per cent.
1901 ..4 0 2 „ 1905 ..4 7 4
1902 ..4 1 0 ~ 1906 ..4 6 6 „
1903 .. 4 3 6
It will probably fall a few pence further ; but even if he
consequently gets a smaller bonus, the policy-holder who
thinks over the matter will get sounder sleep.
k * * »
The New Zealand Insurance Co., with the
San Francisco sting in the tail of it: —
Pro- Written To Re- Re-
Nov., fits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1896 £29,097 13£ p.c. =£27,500 £1,597 £251,147
1897 11,074 llj „ „ 22,500 239,721
LOSS;
1898 1.4,262 10 ~ 20,000 205,459
Profits.
1899 5.1,409 10 ~ 20,000 5i,409 236,868
1900 69,617 12* 25,000 44,617 281,485
1901 55,119 I3| ;; ;; 27,500 £13,937 18,-682 295,167
1902 55,526 15 30,000 25,526 320,693
1903 73,443 15 „ ~ 30,000 4,354 39,089 359,782
1904 71,829 15 „ „ 30,000 41,829 401,611
1905 69,375 15 „ „ 30,000 39,375 440,986
N.Z. Accident Ins, Co. taken over ;
capital increased to £250,000 ; bal-
ance shown on purchase .. 17,696 458,682
Loss.
{167,435 10 „,, 25,000 266,247
Premiums on new share issue 25,485 291,732
Transferred from unearned pre-
miums reserve ;; .. .. 30,000 321,732
Profit on sale of securities,. .. 15,054 336,786
That pretty well explains the Whole matter—tells the
size of the disaster and what has been done to meet it.
The new issue of shares numbered 25,000 ; it is something
very fine that, after a conflagration which licked up no
less than £285,695, or £35,695 more than the co.’s entire
paid capital at that time, 25,000 shares of £2 each shoUld
command a premium of over 50 per cent. (There is A
liability of £8 per share on these as upon the other
125,000 shares in the co.) And, if one puts up with the
risks of fire-insurance stock, the new shares were well
worth the money ; for, after all, these 25,000 shares, though
they don’t rank for dividend this past half-year, never-
theless now own their full proportion of the handsome
reserves that still remain, equal to very nearly £2 ss.
per share, whereas the premium was only a shade
over the even £l. Provision has now been made for all
losses ascertained up to November 30th ; presuming that
that about covers the lot, then the co. should have got
another £1 per share in premium to add to its reserves.
As mentioned above, the ’Frisco losses were £285,695 ;
the total net loss for the year was £167,435, so the profit,
apart from ’Frisco, was £118,260. It will be noted that
tne losses have been met partly by transferring £BO,OOO
from the unearned premiums suspehse account-*-a
reserve (though not reckoned in With ordinary reserves)
to cover unexpired risks. As a l&Tg part of the co.'s
risks ended with the destruction of ’Frisco, the transfer
of some amount was justified. The situation is further
represented hereunder
Loss Expense
Premiums, Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate,
1895.. £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64-2 p.c, 29'6 p.c.
1900.. 342.036 195,804 95,651 57*2,, 27’9 „
1904.. 420,812 273,621 109,011 65*1 „ 26*1 „
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64*2 „ 26'2 „
1906.. 565,149 ] fisl*69s} 129 > 361 ln ' 9 <» 22*9,,
*General. fSan Francisco disaster.
It has to be remembered that the N.Z. Accident Co.’s
business is now incorporated with this: this might
account for £lOO,OOO of premiums. The reduction in the
expense rate is, however, very remarkable. Thanks
to the co.’s policy of building up strong reserves,
it sets out again, even after the shock it has received,
with public confidence in it absolutely unshaken —
a confidence that rests solidly on £388,445 worth of public
securities and £248,341 of deposits, properties, and other
assets even after all outstanding claims and creditors
are paid and after unexpired risks and the current
dividend is provided for. And back of that again is the
shareholders’ liability for £1,200,000.
The Silverton Tramway Co., which owns the
30-odd miles of railway between Broken Hill and the
world: —
Dividend on
Actual Capital Written Real Re-
Dec., Profits. (£122,105). Off. serves.
1896.. £111,896 81 p.e. =£98,903 £134,422
1897.. 88,246 77 „ ~ 93,958 128,710
1898.. 86,574 64| „ „ 79,122 136,162
1899.. 95,592 64f „ „ 79,122 152,632
1900.. 89,472 64| „ „ 79,122 £8,809 154,173
1901.. 78,946 '6OJ„ „ 74,177 7,600 151,342
1902.. 55,462 364 „ „ 44,507 23,370 138,927
1903.. 60,579 32*,, ~ 39,561 159,945
1904.. 61,153 32* „ „ 39,661 30,235 151,302
1905.. 78,523 48* „ „ 59,342 20,000 150,483
1906.. 81,931 48* „ „ 59,342 10,000 163,072
It is a tribute alike to this company’s management and
the wealth of Broken Hill that there is hardly any kick-
ing, even though 48* p.c. is paid on the capital put into
the concern. Only when the metal markets slump at an
inconvenient time is there talk of a new connecting link,
and then it is generally compromised by a freight reduc-
tion of decimal 17 or so of a penny per ton. So far as the
State of N.S.W. is concerned, there isn’t much hope ; it
wouldn’t build the line in the first place, because it would
rather let Broken Hill starve than help it reach its
natural seaport, seeing that that seaport is in another
State ; so it gave this co. a concession, and the promoters
got a clause put in the Bill that, if the State at any time
took the line over, it should be valued on the basis' of the
co.’s profits; so if the State did take the line over, it
would either have to charge present rates or thereabouts,
or make a heavy loss. It is on the basis of profits that
the market values the concern ; and, instead of valuing it
at the £122,105 originally put into the business
(stock was subsequently watered up to £197,806),
it puts a price of £998,920 upon it (£5 Is. per share)—
a remarkable spring from the £534,076 (£2 14s. per
share) at which it stood at the end of 1904.
Present dividend is Is. 6d. per share per quarter;
that gives an investment return of a shade under 6 per
cent. There is, however, the possibility of a larger divi-
dend ; for both lead mills and zinc works are increasing
their output, and that means more freight. Out of tin-
disclosed profits in good times the co. has spent large sums
in “ maintenance and repairs ” ; in many cases this has
meant renewals and additions. Meantime, large amounts
have been written off ; so that the whole fixed assets,
though they have been latgely added to in recent years,
Plow standi at only £137,759, and rdlling-Stock and plant
Stand at £50,390. Five years ago,- ofie item stood at
£155,795 and the other at £58,650. Ih the fivfe years, in
Spite of the additions that have been made and the heavy
Expenditure on renewals, the surplus of liquid assets over
liabilities has increased from £58,146 to £96,-517. That is
to say, after paying dividend, and spending large sums
dn renewals and additions, including £32,000 for new
tails and sleepers ih 1904 alone, the co. is £38,371 to the
good in five years. Of present assets, £79,144 is repre-
sented by public securities and bank deposits. That is
the brig ht side. On the other are some risks. The mines
must end some day, and the use of the railway will prac-
tically end with them. On the other hand, if the mines
become very large, low-grade propositions, having to look
at every ha’penny, they may build a line of their own.
And in that connection it has to be remembered that
whereas the big Broket) Hill men were at one time prac-
tically the Tramway Co., the ownership of Broken Hill
is now' passing into other hands, and the control will pass
with it. What is happening to the Water Co. may there-
fore happen to the Tramway Co.
* •+ * •
The Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits, Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901,. £2087 7* pel- cent. = £937 £ll5O £5,738
Dec,, 1901,, 1488 7* „ „ 937 561 6,289
June, 1902.. 2977 8 „ „ 1000 1977 8,266
Dec,, 1902., 1517 8 „ „ 1000 517 8,783
June, 1903.. 1349 8 „ „ 1000 349 9,132
Dec., 1903.. 1744 8 „ „ 1000 744 9,876
June, 1004.. 3036 12 „ „ 1500 1536 11,412
Dec., 1904.. 2435 8 „ „ 1000 1435 12,847
June, 1905.. 3775 12 ,-, „ 1500 2275 15,122
Dec., 1905.. 3225 8 ,-,- ,-,- 1000 2225 17,347
June, 1906.. 2616 12 „■ „ 1500 1116 18,463
Dec., 1906.. 2314 8 ~- ,-, 1000 1314 19,777
This is one of the few Australian trustee cos.- that have
not mended their w-ays when they needed mending, and
which still give the least possible information about
their proceedings. The idea seems to be that they
are really too respectable to need to give any informa-
tion. It was just the same Way with those venerable
firms of family solicitors whom trustee cos. were designed
to supplant. Those venerable firms traded on their
respectability, and the public pretty often fell in. Some
trustee cos. and a good many others seem to have the
idea that all the respectability in the w'orld lives behind
closed doors w'ith the lights turned low; and it doesn’t
by a long chalk. This co. certainly says what its assets
are; though, since it lumps all its receipts under one
bead, it isn’t possible to tell what the assets are earning.
Also it doesn’t tell the gross value of estates in hand.
A shareholder asked about that at the meeting the other
day,- and the chairman said he didn’t see how
the information ] would benefit the shareholders.
Apparently, therefore, in the chairman's opinion,
it pays the shareholders to keep the public
in the dark about certain things; and that’s
a more severe thing than this paper is prepared to say.
The profits of the co. are erratic (how much of the
corpus commission is taken Credit for when an estate
comes in it is impossible to say); for the last half-year
they were at the rate of £lO 12s.- lid. per cent, per annum
on capital and reserves ; for the past year, £lll2s. 7d,
per cent. It is a very fair return ; after showing it, The
Bulletin can quite understand the management making
disrespectful motions towards any criticism of its
methods. Still, with better methods, it might make 15
percent. And, anyhow', the shareholders are not the
only' persons to be considered.
* * » *
Standard Mutual Building Society (Mel-
bourne), from the tithe when £49,600, being one-half the
capital, was written off
Profit on
Property Written Re-
Profits, Sold. Dividends. Off. serves.
Jan., 1901 £1451 £l2OB Nil £6942 £9,449
July, 1901 1541 609 10 p.c, = £2401 474 8,724
Jan., 1902 1952 1277 6 „ „ 1434 10,519
July, 1902 1803 793 6 „ ~ 1434 485 11,196
Jan., 1903 2072 412 6,, ~ 1434 12,246
July, 1903 2041 339 6 „ „ 1434 200 12,992
Jan., 1904 2230 612 6,, ~ 1434 14,400
July, 1904 1986 534 6 ~ „ 1434 338 15,148
Jan., 1905 2076 221 6 „ „ 1434 16,011
July, 1906 1880 170 6 „ ~ 1434 258 16,369
Jan., 1900 1869 • 441 6 „ „ 1434 17,245
Julv, 1900 1789 -< 317 7*„ „ 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907 2087 681 7*„ „ 1752 18,315
When half the capital was written off, properties were
written dowm to correspond, and the “profits on pro-
perty sold” simply means that the loss then provided for
out of capital has not been quite realised. Since
January, 1901, as a list that follows will show, fore-
closed properties have been reduced by £15,954, and the
profits have been £6306. But some other properties
may have fallen into possession during the past six years,
which would mean that more than £15,954 (book value)
of properties have been sold, and that would reduce the
proportion of profit or recovery per cent. Further, it
isn’t certain that the properties sold are an average
sample. Still, on that point, the figures are highly satis-
factory. In the half-year to Jan,, 1901, net rents of fore-
closed properties show'ed a return equal to £5 4s. per
cent, per anuum of book value. For the past half-year
they show £5 19s. 6d. per cent, per annum. Presuming
that about the same proportion of gross rents has been
spent on repairs, &c., this would hint that the assets that
are left are a more profitable lot even than those that are
gone. As for some other details: —
Jan., 'Ol. July, ’O6. Jan., ’O7.
Deposits, &c £37,015 £24,422 £26,579
Advances .. .. 19,998 31,761 36,796
Foreclosed properties,. 72,305 58,197 56,351
Cash, &c 2,778 1,013 1,297
The strenuous way in which the troubles were faced in
1900, and the cautious way in which deposits have been
accepted since, hold out the hope that the new' advances
are on a sound basis. Expenses are moderate, and addi-
tions to reserves reasonable.
* • * *
The Shamrock Brewing and Malting Co.
(Melbourne): —
Net To Re- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends, serves. serves.
1900 .. £9209 8 per cent. = £3612 £5597 £11,528
1901 .. 7251 8 „ „ 3612 3639 15,167
1902 .. 6644 8 „ „ 3612 3032 18,199
1903 .. 4377 8 „ „ 3612 765 18,964
1904 .. 5008 8 „ ~ 3612 1396 20,360
1905 .. 4628 8 „ „ 3612 1016 21,376
1906 .. 1739 4 „ „ 1806 21,309
As no mention is made of a dividend for the. last half-year,
presumably it is being passed, as it ought to be. No ex-
planation is made as to the slump in profits ; it may pos-
sibly be due to the maturing Beer Trust. It is a
mystery hidden within the unpublished working account.
Other figures:—
1900. 1904. 1905. 1906.
Overdrafts, &c. .. .. £11,957£15,472£15,648£15,425
Premises, stock, &c. .. 62,877 66,019 65,214 65,314
Sundry debtors .. .. 7,566 15,703 13,982 10,595
Cash, &c 1,069 4,786 5,976
Working account balance 29,630 15,336 14,310 9,793
General expenses.. .. 19,281 9,152 8,332 6,857
Written off 1,140 1,035 1,199 857
The figures as to working account and general expenses
for 1900 may be disregarded ; evidently there wasachange
of book-keeping after that year, and items formerly
charged to general expenses W'ere thereafter charged to
w'orking account. The figures in the same lines for the
past three years are, however, serious enough, unless
some special and unrecorded explanation is available.
Melbourne brewery accounts and affairs are in a state of
flux just now, and, while the Trust negotiations are pro-
ceeding, it is probably not much use building many
theories on the published figures.
* * * *
The Brisbane Gas Co.
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. s rves. serves.
Dec., 1902.. £9,688 11* p.c. =£8446 £1242 £21,915
June, 1903 .. 9,054 11 „ „ 8085 969 22,884
Dec., 1903.. 11,762 11* „ „ 8452 3310 20,194
June, 1904 .. 11,042 11* „ ~ 8452 2590 28,784
Dec., 1904.. 11,634 11* „ „ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1905 .. 10,309 11* „ „ 8452 1857 33,823
£20,000 of reserves transferred to capital .. 13,823
Dec., 1905.. 10,898 10 p.c.= 8400 2498 16,321
June, 1906.. 10,768 10 „ ~ 8400 2368 18,689
Dec., 1906.. 11,227 10 ~ „ 8400 2827 21,516
Really, £20,000 having been transferred from reserves to
capital, the present dividend is at the rate of a shade
under 11* per cent, on capital actually subscribed. The
profits shown above are net. But the amounts written
off profits to cover depreciation are not disclosed ; they
may be too much or they may be too little.
II they are too much, then profits are being
stowed away into works somewhere. The position is
Certainly strong. At the end of 1904, liquid assets
exceeded liabilities by £39,765 ; 1905, £37,048 ; 1906,
£36,988. Sle&ntime £7523 has been added to the fixed
assets, A good deal of the strength of the cash position
is due to the sale of land to the Brisbane municipal coun-
cil ; on that account £BOOO is still owing ; and, besides
the reserves mentioned above, there is a suspense
account “ for dividend purposes/’ £5lOO, apparently the
balance of the profit that will be shown on the land sale
when the business is completed. This suspense account
amounted some time ago to £lO,OOO, but part of that,
with other reserves, was capitalised as shown in the
table above.
* * * •
WilLlAMstown Gas Co. (Vic.)
Written To Be- Re.
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £lO4l 7* p.c. =£937 £lOO £4 £5935
.Tune, 1904 .. 1237 8 „ „ 1000 150 87 6022
Dec., 1904 .. 1252 8 „ ~1000 170 82 6104
June, 1905.. 1321 8 „ „ 1000 250 71 6175
Dec., 1905 .. 1357 9 „,, 1125 230 2 6177
June, 1906.. 1519 9 „ ~1125 250 144 6821
Dec., 1906.. 1787 9 „ ~1125 350 312 6633
This co.’s accounts are presented very fully and fairly.
Even full and fair accounts published by a gas co. don’t,
however, let the shareholder and investor know whether
enough provision is being made for depreciation of mains,
services, &c. The plant, mains, and services have
a book value of £23,171. Last year something much
above the average was written off out of profits,
yet it amounts to under 2 per cent, for the year. In
addition, repairs and renewals are paid out of revenue;
hut they are a small matter, amounting to under £3O per
half-year- Still, it is an old-established concern, dating
from 1866, and it is run on economical lines, and the
stitch that saves nine has never been neglected, so far as
can be seen. Before paying the current dividend the
co.’s liquid assets, apart from stock, exceeded liabilities
by £5005,
* * * *
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Q.):—
Dividends, Writ-
ten De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. licit.
Dec., ’O3 £1614 9 p.c. 2* p.c. £713 £747 £795
June,’o4 1501 9,, 116 706 116
Dec., ’O4 1666 9 „ 2* „ 719 831 -
June,’os 1237 9,, 116 1237 116
Dec., ’O5 1337 9 „ 2* „ 717 504
June,’o6 1573 Nil 1573
Dec., ’O6 1514 'lB „ 2* p.c. 833 681
This is one of the most valuable lighting cos. in Aus-
tralia —as the shocking example. For years it paid ex-
cessive dividends that didn’t look excessive on the surface.
The fact was that the plant, into which the capital had been
put, was being used up, and wasn’t being replaced out of
profits. Then, at last, a cold day arrived when the audi-
tors declined to sign the balance-sheet, on theground that
the assets weren’t worth what they purported to be. It
became necessary to either write off a great deal of the
capital as lost (it had actually been paid away to the
shareholders in excessive dividends) and call up more
capital to put the assets in order, or to knock off divi-
dends, and out of the profits either replace worn-out
assets or pay off debentures. As far as the demands of
the preference capital will let them, this.is being done;
the ordinary dividend is cut down till it equals lj per
cent, per annum —that is, a div. at the rate of 2*
per cent, per annum is paid every other half-year.
The 18 per cent, for the past half-year is equal,
of course, to the old 9 per cent, for the full year.
The debenture debt has been reduced to £lB,OOO, and, as
liquid assets exceed current liabilities by £1427 before
paying dividend, another £lOOO will come off this half-
year. How much more the plant needs to be written
down is not ascertainable from the accounts:
but as the electric light department showed a working
profit of only £l5 last half-year, and the plant, mains and
fittings still stand in at £9833, there is evidently a long
way to go yet.
* • * •
Westralian fine-gold figures:—
January, 1905 165,452 oz.
„ 1906 154,365 „
„ 1907 162,238 „
The dividends were £263,763 in 1906 and £239,563 in 1907.
Contributors last month were :—Kalgurli, £75.000 ;
Associated Northern, £52,500 ; Ivanhoe, £50,000 ; Great
Fingall, £37,500; Sons of Gwalia, £16,250: Hainault,
£6SUO; and Black Range, £lBl3. Compared with Jan.,
1906, Kalgurli shows a marked advance, Fingall and
Gwalia a marked decline, and Ida H. has fallen out of the
running.
» * * *
Ivanhoe South Extended, Kalgoorlie, after
grafting since 1899 as a Bull-Oohen concern, has struck a
lode in the shaft at 2000 ft., carrying visible gold. This is
supposed to be an entirely new make, and may yet save
the co. A shade over two years ago the co. had £19,0C0
in hand ; it has since then sunk 600 ft., but should still
have a fair amount of money to go on with. Some time
ago pay ore was cut by diamond drilling at 1477 ft. and
again at 1900 ft., while a rich vein was cut in the shaft at
1320 ft. This mine is controlled by the Horseshoe crowd,
and is economically managed by J. W. Sutherland, of that
mine. The adjoining leases on the south were bought in
1903 by the Horseshoe from Hannan’s Golden Treasure for
£14,600. They,consist of 57 acres, and have been used as
a tailings dumping ground, but now have a prospective
mining value. The Extended intends opening out at
2000 ft., and the result will be followed with interest.
*** . *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, is now equipped
with a 10-head mill, rock breaker, self feeders, two
Wilfle.v concentrators and cyanide plant. A few details
require completing, but the plant is nearly ready to
verify, or falsify, Manager Hooking’s optimistic predic-
tions. Crushing was expected to start by February 1,
but there have been the usual delays incidental to erect-
ing machinery. According to Manager Hocking, there
are thousands of tons of ore in sight, worth 9dwt.
fine gold bv assay. The same statement was made
by ex-Manager Johnson and Tom Hewitson, but test
crushirigs returned less than 3dwt. The gold is so fine,
and the ore so slimy, that a very large percentage is lost
in the slimes. Filter presses cannot be employed eco-
nomically on small mines, as three have to be installed,
and with two men operating them in turns, they can
work more slimes than a 10-head or 20-head mill cafl pro-
duce. A Ridgeway filter press might overcome the
difficulty.
* * * *
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.), which lias not been
worked by the co. for about eight years, and has been in
the hands of tributors for the past three years, is looking
up. In a shaft on the east boundary, near the Hainault,
a party of five tributors carried uown the hole to 200 ft.,
and started opening up a large sulphide lode. The first
small parcel gave 41dwt., including everything, ana a
second parcel is expected to do better still. This loae
was never worked by the co., whose main workings are
100yds. west. A second party of tributors is working tne
oxidised ore at 60ft. from the same shaft, but it only giv p s
them wages. Something definite should he known pf tne
prospects of the new discovery in the course of a montn,
and may quite alter the co.’s prospects. All the expert
have insisted that gold values to the north were cut ofi
by a crosscourse north of the Ivanhoe ; but this has bee
disproved by the Hamilton shaft on the Great Bouldei,
where a new mine has been opened up below bOTO-.
although nothing could be found at shallower levels.
» * * *
Merton’s Reward (W.A.) has restarted its 30-
head mill after a stoppage of ten months. It is esti-
mated ihat there are about 200,000 tonsofSs-ore
sight, and the mill is expected to treat 5000 to 6000 tom
monthly. This means a three-years’ run. Previously the
mill was hampered by shortage of water, and only rail
from one-third to one-half time, and this did not pap
A plentiful supply of water has now been laid on to the
State and no further difficulty is looked for. Co. may
make a monthly profit of £750 to £lOOO ; I but evenfi it
does this is not much on a share capital of £300,009.
’ * * *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), continues to pro-
vide some excitement. It was worked for |xj-ea^by
nrosnectors who, at 80ft., opened up a lode 25ft. to Jim
hi«-h P which yielded 12dwt., taken straight forward. At
150 ft the reef was proved for 400 ft. to be Bft. wide and
worth fiOs At 240 ft., when first out, values were only


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving- by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These tw.» plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth’and ability] Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the nianufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * »
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
*** ' *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s and Schlag and Berend’s Balances.*
* * * *
The Charlotte Plains Consolidated G. M.
Co.’s new Havillah Shaft has just installed a high
lift pump to make all necessary provision against
any increase in the volume of water now that they
are opening up large areas of wash dirt. This instal-
lation is in addition to the large three throw pump
which has given such high efficiency and such constant
service since its inception. The new pump is of the high
lift turbine type, electrically driven, and is capable of
lifting 2,016,000 gallons of water in 24 hours against a
total head of 350 feet. The mechanical efficiency of the
pump is guaranteed at 71'5 per cent, and all repairs and
replacements apart from undue wear are likewise
guaranteed for twelve months. The pump has four
runners and four vanes made from best bronze and the
shaft is attached by means of a flexible coupling to a
Ganz three phase motor 440 volts pressure, 60 cycles
capable of giving 207 h.p. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have executed this con-
tract. This Company has had the manufacture of most
of the big volume deep alluvial lead pumping schemes in
Victoria and has met in each with unqualified success.* [a]
♦ * * *
The Searchlight (London), referring to the
report for the year 1905, of The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited, writes, in its September,
1906, issue, as follows : —“ The report itself, however, is
one of the pleasantest and most thoroughly satisfactory
that the Society has ever issued, sound and solid progress
being everywhere evident.”*
■* * * *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * ' *• *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.* - ‘
* * * *
Connolly, Ream and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * . TC
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or. purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
■r * » *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, w'rite and we will
forward you dine'of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
« * » *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for malting-boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and everv discrintion of cast or wrought iron work.*
* * * *
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field for
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
The enterprising engineering firm R. Hornsby
and Sons, Ltd., Grantham, England, world renowned
manufacturers of the “Hornsby” Patent Safety Oil
Engine, the latest adaption of which is their Traction
Engine, have entered the Gas Engine arena and are now
making the Hornsby-Stockport Gas Engine and Suction
Gas Plant. The latter we learn will develop upwards of
10 brake horse power at the cost of id. per hour. The
minimum cost and attention required should prove a great
inducement to users of motive power to instal this type
of plant. The Australasian addresses of the above firm
are: Sussex-street, Sydney and Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne.*
* * * *■
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Commission business only. Agents every-
where.*
■* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus cpnfirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office —Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * ' j *
Charters Towers.—Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field. *
* * « *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
CoLLisoN & Co], 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
Bft. The next 10 days were spent sinking a 20ft. sump, or
well, and no news being mostly bad news in mining, bears
took the opportunity to bang the shares. Manager
Henderson is confident that, when he opens out, values
will be found as good as ever. I\ ssimists judge by the
adjoining Norseman mine, which was shut down in 1902
because values at 500 ft. were poor where the reef was
cut, and work was abandoned without any driving being
done. The Govt. Geologist pointed out that the gold
only occurred in shoots; but as the co. was losing
£24 6s. 6d, per month, or 2£d. per ton on the 2300 tons
treated monthly, worth 465. per ton, it threw up the
sponge. As dynamite and cyanide are about half the
price they were in 1902, the mine will probably be re-
opened, especially in view of the projected railway.
* * * *
Greenbushes tin field (W.A.) has enjoyed a
prosperous year. The output of black tin has increased
to 778 tons, valued at £78,737, for 1906, as against 638
tons, valued at £52,400, in 1905. The number of men
employed has increased from 240 to 515. Outlook is
promising for a further increase, as manager Moss, of
the Kalgurli, is erecting a sluicing plant.
An important co., with a capital of £150,000,
and bushels more behind that, has been registered in
N.S.W. to erect electrolytic refinery works and handle
c implex ores, hitherto little sought after by Australian
smelting works. The concern is practically a fusion of
the interests of the Mt. Morgan Co. and Aron Hirsch and
Sohn, whose Australian agent, Francis H. Snow, handles
the Mt. Morgan output at present and ships it to the Dela-
mar works in America. If the Barron Falls could be shifted
from the back of Cairns further south along the coast,
there is no doubt where the works would be ; hut as
there’s some difficulty about shifting the Falls, the loca-
tion of the works is an unsettled point. Captain
Kichard, general manager of Mt. Morgan, has made a
hurried departure from Australia, to find out the things
in America and Europe that the co. needs to know. He
will act as technical adviser to the co.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Prop, made £345,620 in the
co.’s half-year to the end of November, of which it wrote
off £31,336, leaving £314,284 as net profit. The amount
written off was not quite equal to what was spent on new
plant. Unless some secret reserve has been made to pro-
vide for an adverse verdict in the Potter case, which
hadn’t been decided when the accounts were made up,
this includes all profit from zinc as well as from silver and
lead. Formerly £60,000 was provided as a reserve
against a slump in the zinc market before average prices
of shipments are adjusted ; and this reserve has not been
increased during the half-year. The quantity of ore
handled was 298,360 tons ; so that, including the profit
from zinc, the total net profit was £1 Is. Id. per ton.
This was with silver bringing 2s. 9 47-64 d. per oz. net to
the co. (that is, after bearing realisation charges), and lead
£l6 ss. sd. per ton. The ore reserves on November 30
were estimated at 3,000,000 tons, as against 3,200,000 tons
in May, 1905 ; since the latter date, 828,000 tons have
been extracted. At £1 Is. Id. per ton, the 3,000,000 tons
in the mine would be worth £3,162,500, or £3 6s. per
share. Fifty per cent, added to that for developments
would, on the same basis as to metal-values, bring up the
total value of the mine to £4 19s. per share. To that
must be added 12s. 3d. per share to represent liquid
assets in excess of liabilities. But there is a tremendous
risk in accepting any such basis of metal values. •As said '
just now, the net prices for the half-year were 2s. 9 47-64 d. ,
for silver, and £l6 ss. sd. for lead. For the previous 12
half-years the average of theprices realised was 2s. 4 39-64 d.
and £ll 16s. 3d. At those prices the profit would be
£133,250 instead of £314,284.
There is very little doubt that, conditions as to
supply and demand being equal, average prices for silver •
and lead are likely to be higher for some years to cpme
than they have been in the past. The increase in gold-
production (which almost resurrects that ancient and
dreary old nuisance, the Medium of Exchange) will see to
that. But the extra price isn’t going to be all profit. If
everything (including silver and lead) are dearer, labor
will cost more ; ditto machinery, timber, &c. And, any-
how, the increase has been in progress during the past
six years covered by the preceding remarks. This in-
crease in gold production, that has been so often exhibited
lately, didn’t commence yesterday ; it was in full blast
seven years ago, when both the Rand and Westralia were
in full fig, and at neither of those places have :the
promises of seven years ago been sustained. The
average prices of the past six years may not be an in-
fallible guide to the future ; hut they are a mighty lot
better than the whispers of men with stocks to sell.
Of course there’s the zinc. But isn’t “the
zinc” about played out? When the boom was being
whipped up (it is easing off a hit now) “the zinc” was
mentioned in much the same awesome way as the old
lady mentioned Mesopotamia. The dumps of old tail-
ings were supposed to be worth untold millions. At
the best, they found firm buyers at from 6s. down
to 3s. per ton ; and the cos. that sold at 55., so far
as experience has gone, have had all the best
of it. What profit the B.H. Prop, is making out of the
production of zinc concentrates it doesn’t mention ; but
whatever it is, it is included in the calculations above.
More than that, it is extremely doubtful whether the co.
is producing anything like 121,895 tons of tailings (the
quantity put through last half-year), of a quality that
can be handled at present with appreciable profit. What
hasn’t soaked in .yet is that there are tailings and tail-
ings ; and the B.H. Prop, isn’t putting stuff through
haphazard.
* * » <
In 1900 the ore reserves in the Broken Hill
Prop, were estimated at 4,588,000 tons. They have now
got down to 3,000,000 tons. Assuming the estimates to
have been made on the same basis, and to be correct,
about 65 tons of ore have been developed for every 100
tons extracted. The outlook is, however, less satisfac-
tory than that, on account of the failure of the northern
end of the mine and the shortening of the shoot at the
south end as the workings get deeper.
* * * *
These Broken Hill cos. handle zinc figures as
though they were loaded—and perhaps they are. Note,
for instance, how the B.H. Prop., after describing the
“more satisfactory results” from the very latest plant
reconstruction, tells in the monthly report that 5626 tons
of zinc concentrates were produced, hut doesn’t-mention
the quantity of zinc-bearing material treated. In that
connection, a “ colonial expert,” writing in London
Financial Times, says that only 1,000,000 of the 2,000,000
tons of material at surface are rich enough to warrant
treatment. The way in which these dumps have oeen
referred to, just as though they were of even quality and
character, is, of course, ridiculous. The proportion of
the dumps which can be treated depends on the future
of zinc and the progress of zinc-metallurgy. The’ stuff so
far treated has been almost without exception what has
been reckoned the most suitable ; and it is pretty certain
no large quantity even of that has yielded more than-
7s. 6d. per ton profit.
■* * < *
With the Broken Hill Block 14 lode at 600 ft.
manager Hocking is in the position of a thimble-and-pea
man. But it isn’t his fault. A lode that cuts out into a
clean face of mullock one day and shows 10ft. of ore the
next is a born juggler on its own account. There is too
much mullock in the south end of the lode for anyone to
build hopes on, but there may be something going north.
It is one of the confidence-trick lodes common to the
stretch of country between Block 13, of the B.H. Prop.,
and the Junction, and in this instance it seems to be
giving one of its most bewildering performances. It isn’t
to be relied on—that’s all that can be said about it for
certain.
* * *
The South Blocks, Broken Hill, is going to be
a nice little mine. For immediate requirements there is
an attractive lode of free milling sulphides, 700 ft. in
length, 18ft. in average width, and offering about 200 ft.
of hacks. Much of this ore will be dealt with by the jigs,
for it is nearly pure galena. Afterwards, there are the
rich shoots of ore coming in from the South mine at the
lower levels to be searched for. The South Blocks mine
is at the end of the Broken Hill outcrop ; and with it the
well-defined, settled ore bodies seem to end also—unless
they appear again at depth. The A.B.H. Consols, the
next claim along, has no lode anyway like its neighbor’s;
and further south, on the White Leads flat, traces of a
lode at average depth become more rare. Diamond
drilling at the South Blocks Extended, three-quarters of
a mile from the South Blocks hill, has also failed to dis-
close anything of importance.
* * * *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) has given ex-chairman
John Fox an option over the property. Reporting it,
the bungling dailies referred to it as a cash offer for the
mine, which it isn’t. Fox’s party is to put up £lOOO at'
once ; that buys an option for a month. A further £3125
buys an option for three months more. Another offer
not for an option, but for straight-out purchase, was men-
tioned at the meeting; but as the meeting was called to
deal with Fox’s offer, the real strength of the other
alleged offer couldn’t be tested.
* * * *
There is something pathetic about Ferd.
Kayser’s opening sentence in the last Mt. Bischoff (Tas.)
report:—“ This is the first time during nearly 32 years’
service that I cannot lay before you a report pleasing to
all concerned and satisfactory to myself.” What a long
vista of success ! Misfortune becomes such a stranger
that when he knocks at the door, his tattered coat
often excites resentment. But he is persistent,
and Ferd. Kayser knows it, and talks sensibly: —
“Since the brown face has been worked out, and the
sudden and unexpected collapse of No. 3 bench, unfore-
seen difficulties have presented themselves, which, in the
near future, compel us to face a still further reduced
output. ... It is to be hoped that some of the opera-
tions will turn out satisfactory, and enable us to recover
solne lost ground ; but since the main deposit of the
mine has failed, and nothing promising has been met in
the main ground, it is doubtful if the old prosperous
times will return.” This means that the grandest tin
mine in the world of recent years is tottering. Over
65,832 tons of black tin is its record, and over £2,000,000
paid in dividends. What a God-send it was that the
barren outcrop was cut out of the Van Diemen’s Land
Co.’s ground by the old-time surveyors, who did not
realise the wealth hidden beneath the brown capping !
This excision meant that wealth went to the many in
Tasmania, and'not to the few fatmen at ’Ome. Of course
there is life in the mine yet, but the difficulty is to tell
how much, owing to the shortening of reserves. At the
different faces there is a good deal of low-grade dirt, but
the country seems to be closing in at different points.
The co. ought to have the ore formations measured up,
so as to give some idea of the ore reserves. Directors
talk about using their cash reserve of £50,000 to buy a
new mine, but they are as slow off the mark as the
Curtin-Davis board. Following figures give results of
the past three half-years’ work
Tin. Dividend. Costs per Ton.
Dec., 1905 ..£42,279, £30,000 £0 6 7£
June, 1906 .. 50,023 36,000 0 6 10£
Dec., 1906 .. 48,190 27,000 0 6 10£
The like again is most improbable.
* » * *
Chillagoe (N.Q.) is having a change of luck.
It got off 50,000 of its Mungana shares at 11s. 6d.,
and the buyers have the right to come for another
50,000. It is a good and proper sale, which will help the
co. lift a little of its debt. As for these Mungana shares,
which no doubt will soon get on the market, it will be
just as well to remember that the co.’s past results are
none too good a guide to the future, for the Chillagoe Co.
has done the Mungana’s smelting on what looks like ridi-
culously easy terms. In short, Chillagoe, owning four-fifths
of Mungana, appears to have been feeding Mungana’s
finances, possibly not at its own expense, but certainly
by taking ore on terms that are not likely to be continued
for long. Mungana has two good mines, Girofla and Lady
Jane. Girofla has lately developed an unexpected patch
of very good ore, but it is only a patch. In addition to
Obillagoe’s success in the matter just mentioned, it has
had its new share issue over-applied for;, and the
Etheridge railway construction (in connection with
which the issue was made) seems all plain sailing. .
E. A. Weinberg reckons the mine traffic on the
Chillagoe Co.’s new Etheridge railway will be 45,000 tons
a year. If so, it means a big spurt for Etheridge, for
last year the field produced only 10,457 tons of ore. The
idea is, of course, that Chillagoe will get all the smelting
to do ; but it is quite probable that the best of the mines
will do their own smelting, like O.K. and Mt. Molloy.
The railway will, in any case, facilitate haulage of coke
and return loading of metals, and, if prices keep up,
there will be a large traffic. Weinberg points out that
the gold reefs get mineralised at depth, and require con-
centrating and smelting. But whatever the Etheridge
can produce, one fact sticks out—the German and other
foreign smelters will run Chillagoe all they know for cus-
toms trade. The foreign smelting firms have had repre-
sentatives all over N. Queensland, and shipments of
copper, tip, and lead ore from Cairns are already con-
siderable.
• * * •
The O.K. Co. (North Queensland), which is
plodding along with the neglected work of prospecting
without finding anything at all sensational, so far, is
going ; to open an office and a register in Sydney. K. N.
Kirk will probably be in charge.
* » * «
An improvement in the market for Mt. Oannin-
dahs (Q.) is due to a development in the bottom level.
Manager Phi Ip’s reports are brightly optimistic. If the
markets hold good and developments are satisfactory,
G. C. Willcocks will do something to introduce this con-
cern to London money-bags.
* * * *
It took 102 separate parcels to make the total
of 16,426 tons treated at Charters Towers during January.
The total value was £60,356, an average of £3 Iss. sd. per
ton. January of last year saw 14,943 tons put through
for £58,594, equal to £3 18s. sd. per ton. Only four
mines, Mills’, Extended, Block and Wyndham, and St.
George, turned out over 1000 tons for the month ; and of
these four the last two are in a rather doubtful way.
Principal producers were : Mills’, 3258 .tons, 1068 oz. ;
Block and Wyndham, 1033 tons, 2940 z. ; Brilliant Cen-
tral, 720 tons, 5450 z. ; Pfeiffer’s D.D., 657 tons, 588 oz. ;
Day Dawn P.C., 198 tons, lOOoz. ; St. George, 1628 tons,
780 oz. ; Stockholm, 113 tons, lOOoz. ; New Queen, 246
tons, 114 oz. ; Extended, 4969 tons, 14600 z. ; Marshall’s,
397 tons, 47Qoz. ; Victory, 362 tons, 6090 z. ; Queen Cross,
456 tons, 2770 z. ; Carrington’s, 568 tons, 3850 z. These
figures are mill gold only. The other 89 parcels were
under 100 tons each.
* • * *
More legitimate prospecting is being done in
Charters Towers’ mines at present than ever was done at
one time before. Certainly the field needs it all, for the
condition of many of the mines was bad. .Even now, out
of the whole bundle of stragglers, hardly one, except
Pfeiffer’s, knows for certain what it is, looking for, and
where it may reasonably expect to get it.
•* * ' * ' *
Carrington’s United, outside Charters Towers,
paid £2875 for January. This show, after much “ engi-
neering,” stands out as the most attractive property on
or around Charters Towers. The 558 tons treated-for
January averaged £6 16s. 4d. per ton. Information con-
cerning the mine (26 miles out) is, however, only handed
to shareholders on a long-handled shovel. There were
300 ba!gs of copper ore despatched to the smelters; but no
space was available in the report to mention the value
of the stuff inside the bags. Still it’s gratifying to know
that the bags were strong and securely sewn. .
* * * *
If it’s the name of boss “caller ” that the Queen
Deep, Charters Towers; is after, it will have to hustle to
beat the Vesuvius. The co. keeps calling and plodding
along trying to make one decent mine but of two or three
old ones. The show is situated outside' the fashionable
area, and receives very little'attention. There was
supposed to be something dazzling about it when it was
floated ; now that the old workings have been drained of
water, it is seen that it was only the prospectus that
dazzled. ,
* * * *
Queen Cross, Charters Towers, has arrived at
bed rock. The top workings, where the voluptuous
dividends came from; are to be entrusted to the gentle
tributor. The co: itself is going to carry on operations at
the 1700 ft. formation, where there is 6in. of reef showing
in the levels.
» * * *
The Mexican’s star has dipped beyond the
horizon at Charters Towers. The crosscut has been dis-
continued at 500 ft. They missed the Mills’United reef,
and went on until they met the old Mexican formation.
Levels have been started, and are out 50ft. east and west
in a formation that was never guilty of gold, though it
may have been accused of it now and then.
* * * *
Victorian brown coal has been dangled before
Victorian investors for the past quarter of a century.
But David Syme’s preaching hasn’t quite convinced any-
one, any more than his banging of the big dram over the
Outtrim coal-mine did. Still, David put up his own
money at the Outtrim ; and there is no proof that he has
done this with the brown coal. That is, unless Croker
has lured him into the Altona project that Bewick,
Moreing and Co. are reported to have taken in hand.
That project needs very careful watphing to see
that the business does not pass into the hands
of London promoters, old land-boomers, and the like.
The idea seems to be to have a cut at raising coal to
supply power-gas for'the electrification of the railways.
If that is good enough for private enterprise, it is good
enough for the State which owns -the..railways, and the
State must not allow any private finger in its pie where
its big railway service is concerned. The warning ought to
be given so that there shall be no crying about a breach
of faith. This warning can be given with the greater
reason now that another coal project is in the air—the
Werribee Park scheme, some 12 miles distant from Mel-
bourne. Brown coal 140 ft. thick is said to exist out
from Altona. If it is any good, the Government ought to
pounce on a big block of unworked ground; if it doesn’t,
it will be squeezed sooner or later.
« * * *
Jorgensen’s, at Stirling (Vic.), is an instance of
the way things ought not to go. The co. consisted
mainly of a smart Ballarat crowd, who found that, when
they got off their own dunghill, they were only' a very
feeble cockerel. The original Jorgensen had a mine on
the Haunted Stream, where he delved hard and with
moderate success. Then came from Ballarat certain
wise men, among them Holst, Buchanan, and Sewell.
They probably envied the Northerner the mUrmur of the
stream ; anyhow, they bought.' But the luck left with
Jorgensen. Even when Jorgensen went back, it made no
difference ; so now a heavy overdraft hangs round the
neck of Jorgensen’s co.—a weary weight to a sad-eyed
Ballarat crowd.
* ■» * *
Cassilis (Vic.) emerges from its retreat to once
more show that it is still a mine, and can build up profits
without any flam or show. Co.’s great trouble is to keep
up ore reserves. This can be seen from the fact that,
while £4054 was netted last half-year, £3940, or nearly £
for £, was mopped up in mine development, to say
nothing of what went as a preliminary in the electric-
power scheme. Heavy development work must still be
looked for, owing to the in-and-out nature of the
ore shoots—short formations, shaped like a string of
sausages. Last half-year 6250 tons went to the mill, and
averaged a shade under loz. Costs worked out about as
follows : Breaking, &c., 245. 9Jd. ; transport, 7Jd.; mill-
ing, maintenance, &c., 20s. 3d. ; total 455. 7fd. per ton.
To this lias to be added development, 12s. 7Jd. per ton.
Mine has in sight 1] ,000 tons, or under a year’s work ; but
it has its shaft 150 ft. below its boti om level, otherwise the
position would be very blue. It has to carry out a big
electric scheme, and wants every penny it can raise.
Without dividends, it is a fair gamble; with dividends
and without more reserves, it ought, to the ordinary
shareholder, to be a case of cut and run.
* * * *
Bonny Caledonia, Pride of Victoria’s Warran-
dyt.e,! .But where are its clansmen? Fallen a prey, alas,
to bears or to bulls: Caledonia has its own tartan
muddied and its claymore dulled. To drop that sort of
thing, the ore it produced last half-year came almost
entirely from the north and south slopes above No. 2
level. * No. 3 level shows fair stone ; “ payable” is the
manager’s expression. Total length of shoot, about
250 ft. This is the mine reserve, with the stone left at
the No. 2 level. Financially, the co. ought.to have built
up a better cash reserve ; but shareholders were hungry
as a foraging Highlander. The co. has a fixed deposit of
£750; also, £155 cash, and net value of stone being
crushed, £lOOO ; but it owes the bank £1649. Yet there
are a few who want to make out that that mine is a
second Long Tunnel.
* * » *
At Kingston (Vic.), the other day, a road-
repairer named Ricard found three specimens which
yielded 7oz. The same man, working on the same sort
of job a few months ago, uncovered a nugget worth
£4 17s. One of his mates also got a piece worth £5, and
now the Shire Council is being urged to let out the right
to repair roads at a fancy figure.
* * * *
| (Tarnagulla (Vic.), where the big nuggets come
from, is a favorite resort of civil servants and bank clerks
on their fortnight’s holidays ; but new-chums’ luck has
not yet been conspicuous. One Melbourne clerk got a
30oz. slug when but a day on the field, but never saw a
color for the rest of his vacation.
« *
From the IN orthern Territory :—The Territory
gets another knock: The N.T. Mines of Australia,
Limited, the Bull Co. that had spent tens of
thousands at Yam Creek and elsewhere in sinking
the right holes in the wrong places, &c., has
given up work, and is selling off all its useless
machinery lying about the country. There are some
prizes to be picked up for a song in the way of batteries,
locomotives, traction engines, &c. The diamond drill
did not prove the lode at the Ironblow to be any richer
at 400 ft. ; hence the shutting-down. Yet practical
miners of life-experience pronounce it a fine propo-
sition. The lode measures 40ft. at 200 ft. ;it assays sdwt.
gold, 12oz. silver, 5 per cent, lead, 5 per cent, zinc, i per
cent, copper. Such a body of low-grade ore ought to be
made to pay; but manager Dyson didn’t like it
from the first. Flux was one of his troubles.
Local people bubble over when his reports to London
are mentioned. Certainly it was never likely to pay if
worked as an English prospecting co. always does work
in these parts—with expensive staff and frills and a horde
of Chinese who are pastmasters at dodging graft. Mount
Elleson, the copper show now worked on tribute by
Chinamen, has produced over 60 tons of grey ore, going
50 per cent, copper, in a few months, and the tributors
say they have a good thing'; the heathen nearly always
gets the good things in the Territory.
* * * *
A second battery of 10 stamps is going up at
Mt. Todd, the new Northern Territory' tinfield that pro-
mises so well, and may be expected to get to work in
March. This will help to prove whether the field is what
it appears to be, even though the price for crushing is to
be £i per ton. Three large claims are being vigor-
ously worked. One, with four white men, basakaolinlsed
dyke ; the party is down 50ft. on stuff averaging
10 per cent, black tin. The Evening Star is a good show,
down about 60ft. on a nice-looking lode which will aver-
age 6 per cent, black tin ; the owner has 400 tons pad-
docked. The Clean Sweep, where the battery is being
erected, is very rich on the surface ; £BOO worth of the
richest ore has been sent away in six months, bagged
stuff mostly, with one parcel of concentrates. The
deepest hole is barely 30ft. Owners have 200 tons of
stuff at grass, averaging 8 per cent. A few Europeans
will make something out of this field, but much of the
bream of this, as of the neighboring Horseshoe, is going
to China. Port Darwin takes no interest in the place ;
no Darwin business has an agency there—Chows have all
the trade.
* * * *
“Mallarapoonie”: “ Blister ” (B. 17/1/’O7) gives
some Australasian records of gold production. Probably'
the most lucrative winning of gold in Australia was made
by Chinese with butchers’ knives on the Wandi River
bar, Northern Territory, in the early ’Bo’s, The cascade
formed by the river bar acted as a sluice to the alluvial
deposits higher up, and the quantity of washed gold won
from the crevices on the bar was enormous. The irregu-
larities of the bar acted as natural riffles in the great
sluice, and out of those cracks and crevices the Chinese
hooked the slugs with knives and pieces of bent wire.
While operations lasted the Mongolians swarmed on that
river bar like flies on a treacle tin, and nary white man
got a look in edgeways. It is estimated that fully ’OOOl
of that gold was spent in Australia.
*,* * »
The Swan Brewery. Co. (Perth) is threatened
with more vigorous opposition ; a co. with strong back-
ing has been put off, mainly in Perth and Adelaide, to
run the chief rival beer-factory.
* * * *
“ Quidam ” : Southerners who meditate the
taking up of land in Queensland would do well to be wary'
of “ settlers’ group ” projects which are tangled up with
butter factory cos. and such like concerns. Some of these
projects may be sound, but it is nqteworthy that Queens-
landers themselves have refused point-blank to allow the
taking up of shares in co-operative concerns to be tacked
on to the conditions attached to such “ groups.” The
impossibility of obtaining any definite information from,
for instance; the people who are booming the “settlers’
group” at Proserpine, Q. (unless moving exhortations to
wire 30s. to becomeamember of the next group with a share
in the butter factory—size of share and liabilities not stated
—can be regarded as information), suggests that the pro-
moters of such schemes are not moved altogether by'
philanthropic motives. Before a southerner rushes to
the north to grow sisal hemp, he wants to make sure that
that vegetable is more reliable than , the sida retusa,
which was introduced with much enthusiasm many years
ago as a valuable fibre plant; and has been cursed with
much more enthusiasm ever since. The strange eager-
ness of some people to allow other people to make for-
tunes off land they themselves carefully leave alone
always suggests caution.
*■* * *
“ C. Ray ” : Re a Bulletin remark that it was
peculiar that when tributors got hold of a certain mine
the value of the stone sprang up, though no new develop-
ment work was done. It’s this way, perhaps : Say a
manager has been hauled over the coals in regard to
expenses. A hundred tons of stone may' cost 20s. to
raise=£loo. With 25 to 50 tonß of country rock added,
it will cost only £lOO (country rock has to be hauled,
anyhow). Result : Manager congratulated over raising
150 tons of ore at same figure as 100 tons originally cost.
Of course returns are lower ; but that isn’t the manager’s
fault, is it ?
* * * *
From latest accounts it appears that
“Elijah ” Dowie lias lost not only his power and
his Purple Wings, but liis mental balance as well,
and is a physical and intellectual wreck. He now
roams round with his hands and feet bandaged
to the size of four small whales (he believes he has
foughtagreat battle, in which, although victorious,
he was badly wounded) and he curses all and
sundry, not in the great picturesque curse of old
but in plain crude damns. Also he calls himself
.Terry, which, perhaps, is short for Jeremiah.
What a fall ! From Elijah to Jeremiah; from
chariots to lamentations.


Hotel
A usttreilitn
BATES FROM
12s. 6d. per Day
The Hotel Is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light • It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert ’ everv
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30. J
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms dav
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
declared free from injurious substances by
Government chemists. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing'.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything chat can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
‘G. Mac”.: “Janor’s” timber inspector
(B. 31/l/’O7), who couldn’t detect a stuffed log,
must have been a sewerage inspector. Let me
give him a wrinkle. Hang a watch at one end of
the apparently solid log, directly over the heart,
and listen at the other end. If the ticking of the
watch can be heard the pile is solid. If there is
no tick it’s. 100 to 1 that there is a pipe in
centre. This test has never been known to fail.
A WASTED HINT.
SMITH (to Mull, the publican, who has been hint-
ing that the slate is pretty full): “No it is,
Mull, old man. Ye'll soon be wantin ’ a
new one.”
“The Proeshan”: John Moran, of
Ravenswood (Q.), doubts (B. 7/2/’O7) the veracity
of my statement to the effect that a child was
slimed over by a large carpet snake at Carr’s
Greek, near Grafton (N.S.W.). Nevertheless it
is perfectly true, and “J.M.” can have confirma-
tion by writing to Mr. Duncan McFarland, sugar
planter, now residing at the place. The child’s
name was Stewart, or Stuart. “J.M,” claims
that no Australian snakes slime their prey. This
has not been my experience. I have yet to find
the snake that does not slime. However, my
object is scientific research, and I am only too
thankful to Mr. Moran if he can prove his state-
meiits to the contrary. Here are the names and
of some gentlemen who can offer
‘J.M.” the proof of tlieir own reliable eyesight
that our snakes do slime, though perhaps not
always, and probably not in the case of small
bodies like frogs, mice, &c. : Sergeant Duprez
Adelong (N.S.W.), will tell how he saw
a 9ft. carpet snake .at Tooma (N.S.W.)
slime and devour a peweet, presented to the
reptile on the point of a piece of pine. Mr. A
Quarmby, storekeeper, of Batlow (N.S.W.), wili
explain how a black snake slimed a young rabbit
near Batlow. Mr. H. Nettle, mine manager,
Batlow, will mention that he saw a 12ft. carpet
snake about to despatch an opossum, fully slimed
at Yangarie, near Maryborough, in “J.M.’s”
own State. Mr. George Westphal, miner, of
Upper Adelong (N.S.W.), will prove that a tiger
snake slimed a jew lizard near his residence. As
Mr. Moran has doubted my veracity, I state no
instances for proof, preferring to let him receive
the evidence of others. I have written fear The
Bulletin for nearly 20 years, and its editor knows
that lam no dogmatist. I write of the bush, its
lore, and its law, as I see it, and I often take
much trouble to convince myself as to the correct-
ness Of what I state. I have no doubt that many
other bush Bulletin men will confirm my recent
assertion. With regard to politics and the fear
of God, I fail to see where they apply in a matter
of natural history.
* * ...
The western part of Central Queensland
has been suffering of late from a plague of frogs,
and in some houses they have been bagged and
carted away as the only means of lessening their
numbers. The frogs have brought an unusual
number of snakes about. One household, which
has had more than its shareof both classes of rep-
tile, captured an old-man goanna with a clothes-
line lasso, and pressed him into the service as a
frog-and-snake-destroyer. He was tied up to a
gidya, and given a plate of frogs and a bucket of
bore water as an inducement to stay. After a
couple of days of this treatment he was allowed
the run of the bathroom with his “harness” on,
and did well on a diet of snakes and frogs. Three
days later, he was let off the chain, and roamed
round the house, ignoring frogs, but still sampling
snakes. At the end of a week, he was tired of
snakes, but had eaten five young turkeys and all
the eggs in the vicinity. Then he was sacked
without a character, and that family now battles
with its own frogs.
. “S.R. *: “F.H.R.,” writing (B. 25/10/’O6)
of the black soil plains in wet weather, reminds
me of the black soil plains of Gordon Downs,
Central Queensland. Back in the eighties a
parcel of unregenerate kiddies used to get heaps
of fun, and not a little adventure, chasing kan-
garoos across the heavy soil. We used to run
bare-legged, having greased our feet and legs well
with lard, so that the mud would not gather
easily. It was a pathetic sight to see an old-man
kangaroo floun-
dering along with
immense clods
of the universe
anchored to both
his hind legs. A
fairly fleet and
well-conditioned
kid of 12 was
just equal to
keeping up to a
’roo in very
heavy country,
as the ’roo’s
bounding handi-
capped him ter-
ribly. Generally
we managed to
surround one,
but beyond
throwing clods
at him we could
not do him any
harm. We had
a wholesome fear
of in - fighting
with a ’roo, and
didn’t helpmuch
to keep down the
marsupial birth-
rate. At last a
genius took to
fastening the
blades of old butchering knives to light sticks,
which he proposed to throw javelin fashion at the
’roo. But one of the hunters stopped a spear
which wasn’t meant for him, and the hunting left
off about that time.
* * * •
“ Blank ” tells this tale :
No wonder The Bulletin blushes perpetually. The
amount of bad language it is responsible for is truly
awful. In this “back o’beyond ” ancient copies of the
paper are passed from one bushman to the other, and I
have seen a three-months-old issue brazenly waiting in
the church porch till mass had been said. Perhaps that’s
why an aged par. was being discussed so heatedly in the
killing yard this afternoon.
“ I tell yer this here talk in The Bullyteen about a
bullock bein’ yoked to a bull is all blanky fairy tales,”
remarked a boundary rider.
A small crumpled man removed his pipe and expec-
torated deliberately. “It ain’t, Tommy—it ain’t no
blanky fairy tales. I tell yer a blanky bullock can’t
blanky well work with a blanky bull if he ain’t blanky
well changed every blanky week or so. I knoo
Large bearded man broke in: “I knowed blanky bul-
locks before you was blanky well born, an’ I tell yer it’s a
blanky fac’.”
“ That’s right. It’s the blank blanky breaf of ’em,”
said a man sitting on a rail. “ I knoo ”
Boundary rider interrupted excitedly: “ Don’t care a
blanky blank wot yer say. I seen ’em blanky well work-
in’ together these millions o’ times. Why, I knoo ”
Little crumpled man rose from his corner and ad-
vanced, smiting the air with the bowl of his pipe : “ Look
here, Tommy. You blanky well don’t know what you’re
talkin’ about. I seen a blanky ”
“ All blank rot ”
“ I blanky”
“ Look ’ere, I blanky well
“Oh, shut up. I blanky”
“ Listen ’ere. I blanky well knoo a bullock ”
“ It’s a blanky fac’,; it is. I blanky well ”
Prom the overseer: “For blank’s sake, hurry up with
those sheep ; you’d blanky well talk there all the blanky
night.”
That broke up the sitting.
DRAWING THE LINE.
SWAGGIE : “ Any chance of a hit o’ meat, mum ?”
THE LADY : “ Well, yer see, me ’usband’s just died, and ”
SWAGGIE (with dignity): “Mum, I'm not a cannibal.”
“ J.G.” : Be bulls and bullocks working
together. Was once with a threshing plant, when
the engine got stuck in the middle of a paddock,
through a big flood coming down. Although we
double-banked our two teams of bullocks, we
couldn’t pull the mass of iron out —only pulled it
in deeper. The cocky for whom we were working
had a look at things, and said his horses would
pull it out. He brought down six of his best, and
hitched them to the locomotive, but, after they
had given a few tugs, the machine still remained
in the same spot. The cocky’s horses, however,
were scattered all about the place, and their har-
ness was broken to bits. The boss then sent one
of the men for Bruno. Bruno was a bull, whose
favorite occupation was to make scrap-heaps of
all the gates he came across. If he wished to go
for a moonlight walk he simply tramped through
his owner’s gate and scooted across the neighbor-
ing farms. The fence might be down in
places, but Bruno always mooched along till he
came td a gate, and then rushed through it, leaving
behind him a heap of firewood. The boss thought
that Bruno might pay some of his expenses, for
he had cost a lot in gate repairs, by getting the
engine out of the hole. He was yoked up in the
pole, and the reinforced team was urged to give
another pull. Bruno gave a tremendous heave
with his shoulders, and touched up the pair of
bullocks in front of him with his horns, and the
whole team got a move on. The bull heaved as
much as all the others put together—in fact, he
heaved like the devil. The engine came out of
the bog at a run—we had some trouble to stop
the team from bolting with it. We intended to
keep Bruno with us for a few days in case we got
stuck again, but that night he laid out a couple of
other bulls, ripped out the end of the feed-house
adjoining the stable, got in and ate about a ton
of oats, and arrived home with the ruins of a
dozen gates on his horns.
*•» * *
“ T.0.M.” : Here is the law on galls and
Chinamen. I visited my Chow yesterday to get
the true bill. “Clo gaw welly goo, welly littee,
welly pittar, welly narshity tilinkem. Sheposhem
welly ti, too muchee heart workemshumteem, too
ti longa arm, too shtiff, you she ? Clo gaw welly
goo, makem welly quick work, you she? Wombat
gaw welly goo, nishee, shveet, no pittar tilinkem.
Shumteem shick insi, heartburn welly shor, you
sharbee ? My ward, wombat gaw makem welly
feel pettar. Goanna gaw welly goo. Oily more
pettar. Makem belt longa skin, you she?
Yarelem longa podee. Kulem looshatism,
loomartic, anyting likee nart, you sharbee?
Sheposhem lubbem oily longa podee, longa arm,
welly goo, my ward !” “ How do you make the
gall medicine, Charlie?” “Oh, ketchem littee
cup, puttem gaw insi, mixem plandy—little lum
more pettar. Stheem longa shorsheparn harp
how, you she? Stheem mettem gaw, mixem
longa plandy, tilinkem nobbier, go bed. Clo gaw
(grimace) too narshity, pittar, me no likee
tilinkem, you sharbee ? No valk apow howsie,
tilinkem, go bed, lie down velly kwi. Sheposhem
you littee poy ketchem clo, ketchem wombat, me
buy shickshypen too —me too ole, earn shootem.
Clo too fly away quick, no ketchem, you she ? ” I
think this clears the matter up.
Experiments in prickly pear destruction
recently made in the Kingaroy (Q.) district have
proved successful. In October the spiny anathema
was sprayed with a mixture, the nature of which
is a secret, but which is being patented. Three
months later the stalks and leaves of the beastly
vegetable were lying on the ground quite dead,
and on being fired, they burned away completely.
Only a little grass was used to kindle the fire.
The roots were dug up and found to be rotten.
Other pears treated early in January were dying
fast three weeks later. Rain does not affect the
efficacy of the mixture, 10s. worth of which is said
to be sufficient to destroy an acre of the botanical
porcupine.
IT’S A PITY TO WASTE IT.
“ Jane, where’s the bacon-rind that teas in the
mouse-trap?”
“ Well, mum, I put it in th’ soop for to give it
a flavor. But ’t’won’t matter; ye can use it
again, an’ the poor leasts not a lit wiser!”
It would seem that a rapid variety of
bottled lightning is purveyed at Richmond (Q.).
One Henry Leo recently struck that town with a
credit balance of £l5O, the result of a couple of
years’ toil on Oondoroo station. A fortnight
later he finished up as an almost penniless corpse
in the local hospital, a victim to alcoholic poisoning.
Towards the end he didn’t see snakes or other
products of bush liquor; he had got past that
stage, and couldn’t distinguish day from night.
A whole procession of fantods carrying umbrellas
might have passed him unnoticed.
THE BUSH BEYOND THE RANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Crow’s Nest here by Sydney town,
Where crows had nests of old,
I see the' Range where day goes down—
The dim blue in the gold.
And sometimes wonder, half in doubt,
Has there been so much change
As pictured in the prints about
The Bush beyond the Range.
There’s motor-cars and all the “ frills,”
But none of my old mates—
The Bush seems run by Buff’lo Bills
And Hayseeds from the States.
I miss the homesteads and the scrub,
The stock and fences too,
The horse and swagman and the pub
That Minns and Mahony drew.
I miss the drovers, diggers— sheep,
And—lots of things. Ah well I
I wonder if the Kellys keep
The Carriers’ Camp Hotel,
If that still stands by hill and plain
As old Man Kelly’s pride,
Or if he did pull round again
When Mary Kelly died—
And Andy Kelly took to drink,
And Barney took a horse
(And two years’ hard without a blink),
And each one took his course.
And what become of Andy Mack,
Tom Browne, and Pat “ O’Brine ”?
It must be twenty seasons back
Since last I had a line.
I wonder if—but I forget
And wonder like a fool,
Is Bertha Lambert teaching yet
A wretched half-time school.
I hope—Ah ! how the memories come
To bother and defer—
I only hope my boyhood’s chum,
Fred Spencer, married her.
I wonder, and the more it seems
So far away and strange,
For I have lost, except in dreams,
The Bush beyond the Range.
I wonder, too, in fear and shame,
Do they, like me, forget—
I wonder if they mind the name
Of Henry Lawson yet.
N.B.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


A REAL PICK-ME-UP.—“ Talk about cham-
pagne,” said Byron, “there is nothing which
cheers your spirits up like a dose of salts.” But
had he known Hunyadi Janos he would certainly
have, preferred this, the best and safest natural
aperient.*
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been
analysed by chemists. It contains no poison.
For sale everywhere, Is. 6d.*
CHOICE DIAMOND JEWELLERY
WE SPECIALISE ON.
WE MAKE IT. WE MOUNT IT. WE SET IT.
Prom London’s latest designs, which we receive by each mail.
Our stock of Unset Jewels is one of the Largest in Australia.
It affords us pleasure to submit special designs.
As manufacturers, our prices never exceed London figures.
Choice Whole Pearla and Selected
Diamonds, £4O ; 2nd quality, £2B.
Euby, Sapphire and Diamond Trefoil and Whole Pearl and
Diamond Bangle, £27 10s.
Plain Figures
Cash
& FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter St.
DOMAIN HUMOR.
No. 1: “ Watcher doin' 'ere, Mister? That’s my hunk—'ad it last six monfs.”
No. 2: “ Git out! I'm the bailiff in fer rent."
33arrier(N.S.W.)weather experiences some
sudden drops at times. The maximum shade
reading on February 6 was 102 deg., and the mini-
mum during the night 56 deg., a fall of merely 46
deg. !
* * * *
“ C. Ray,” a member of two exploring
parties that got thirsty in those parts, gives this
pleasant account of the country between Laver-
ton and Alice Springs—the country that cyclist
Birtles had an idea of biking through :
There are from 300 to 500 miles, with scarcely a break,
of sand and spinifex, and through most of this it would
be absolutely impossible to push a bike. Where it is not
loose drift sand, it is spinifex, from 2ft. to 3ft. high, and
so dense that no bike could run between. Birtles’ idea
of catching the early summer rains stamps him as a man
with no knowledge of the inland desert, as there are no
summer rains to be depended on that far south. The
only way out for a cyclist would be to come back the way
he went before he got too far, or to break south and get
nearer the coast line.
As it turned out, Birtles went back almost before
he had put his nose in.
“ Yaller Box ” : Tim was the
champion practical joker of the dis-
trict. Near his house was an old
hut, and into it he used to invite
sundowners to spend the night.
Now, Tim had an iron tube laid
under the boards of the hut and
coming out through a mound of
earth at the back. Through this
tube he used to speak to his guests
in hollow tones in the dead of
night, and many and weird were
the yells that arose, and many
were the half-dressed forms
that fled through the darkness
from that hut. But retribu-
tion overtook Tim in the
shape of one of his neigh-
bors dressed as a tramp. Tim
failed to recognise him, and
kindly invited him to sleep
in the hut for the night.
He failed also to see a re-
volver which the tramp car-
ried, though it was only
loaded with blank cartridges.
About 10 o’clock Tim crawled
out to his tube, and speaking
through it in a dreadful voice
asked the tramp if he was
prepared for death, and told
him that hell was yawning
to receive him, and that all
was discovered. In reply,
the tramp fired the revolver
three times into the tube,
and Tim reckoned he had
swallowed an earthquake
and a volcano and an es
caped tiger. He lit out
for home, forgetting the
barbed-wire fence he
had carefully crawled J
through a minute be-
fore. Three more shots
were fired before Tim
broke away from the
fence, leaving all his
clothes and a great
part of himself on
the spikes. After that
he was in bed for a fortnight, and for another
fortnight he only took gentle exercise.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: “X.P.D.” writes about his
versatility (B. 10/l/’O7). I claim to be also in
the running. Started off with selling newspapers.
Was 12 months cabin boy—discharged for being
tired ; farm laborer six weeks—booted for spoon-
ing cocky’s daughter ; drove milk cart 10 months'—
sacked for exchanging milk for rum ; offsider for
teamster 13 months—flogged for knocking leader’s
eye out; mining three days—boss told me I ought
to be “mining sheep”; navvy four hours—got
the infernal for telling ganger to run away and
play ; officer of the law 10 weeks—dismissed for
arresting one of General Booth’s female warriois
on suspicion of easing a drunk of his watch.
Have been a son of rest for two years. Would
like a job as manager of a hotel. Age 27.
* * * *
“ Duroe ” ; “ X.P.D.” (B. 10/l/’O7) makes
a good exhibit. I would like to see more of such,
as I hold that there are hundreds in Australia
who Cyin do almost anything, and do it well.
1 lore’s jny little lot. Breed, French-Scotch cross.
Apprenticed to engine-fitting. Cleared off to sea.
Since 'then been seaman, cavalryman (U.S.A.),
exchanged to artillery, sergeant-instructor to
cadets at West Point, singer, actor, musician,
monologue entertainer, advance agent, manager,
auctioneer, upholsterer, polisher, sawyer (both
plain and circular), engine-driver (certificated),
laborer, bricklayer, carpenter, axeman, con-
tractor, horse-breaker, shopkeeper (brief and
disastrous), cocky, dairy farmer, teamster, vine
and fruit grower. Only 46, so may have a turn
at many more occupations yet. In the intervals
of this strenuous life I have managed to rear four
strong, healthy boys (two over 6ft.-)f
•'* m *
“San”: Phylloxera-proof vines are an
absolute necessity nowadays, and so the N.S.W.
vignerons feel that they need them. But they
don’t want to purchase them for themselves.
They are altogether too Anti-Sosh for that. They
want to be supplied with vines by the State.
That fond parent is willing to give the vignerons
phylloxera-proof stocks, but says that the growers
must do the rest themselves, i.e, graft the proof
scions on the stocks. When G.H.R. has got tired
of his sectarian toy the wine-growers are going
to enlist his services to stump the country on the
question of the graft, the whole graft, and nothing
but the graft.
THE JOB WASN’T FINISHED.
THE SHEPHERD : “My man, I’m sorry to say
you’re drunk.”
DEADBEAT : “ ’Scuse me, sir, but I’m sorry to
say I’m not.”
“Parapluie ” : In answer to “ Janor ” (B.
17/l/’O7) re lyre-birds. I have seen that worthy at
work when he has been imitating, or trying to
imitate, everything he could think of —and he
thought of a few. At the bottom of the Falcon-
bridge Falls, near Springwood (N.S.W.), some
years ago, I came upon him. Sneaked to the top
of the falls, and, looking over, saw the bird
scratching and fooling about generally among the
leaves, and whistling most of the time. He
mimicked most of the larger birds that grow in
that neighborhood, notably what we used to call
the mountain magpie, also the crow and thrush.
Then he’d swing off and mix them a bit, and throw
in a few of his own notes to vary it. Again, I
was down among the gullies between Bermagui
and Bega, where there seem to be lyre-birds
(pheasants they call ’em there) in every gully, and
I caught him again. He had a bigger variety
there, but the butcher-bird was his best perform-
ance. He also tried wonga-pigeon, water-hen,
gang-gang (is that the way you spell it ?), parrot,
&c. I have noticed that the lyre-bird generally
pitches his tale a tone or two higher than the bird
he mimics. I have never heard him tackle a fac-
tory at work, or the Legislative Assembly, but he
will sometimes try an axe or saw, though you
have to guess hard and imagine a lot even then.
Next time I visit the country of the lyre, I will
let “Janor” know, and, if he will guarantee not
to go through scrub like a stampeded bullock, I
will take him along and show him. (P.S. —If you
get puzzled about water-fowl being in mountain
gullies that suit the lyre-bird, I may mention that
most of the gullies between Bermagui and Bega
open into lagoons, where are found, at times, all
the water-fowl ever thought of.)
* W * *
“F.H.8.”: Agree with “Janor” (B.
17/l/’O7) re the lyre bird’s mimicking. Lived for
over a year under Mount Bau Ban, North Gipps-
land, which is the poultry’s head station. I have
heard them whistle and jabber in their own
language, in a varied w r ay certainly, butcould never
detect the real true note of the butcher bird,
magpie or leather-head in their rambling state-
ments. The leather-head gets nearer human
speech in his wild untaught state than any other
bird in the bush, and, I think, would make a very
intelligent pet; but, thanks to his drab, unattrac-
tive feathering, he is seldom (if ever) made cap-
tive. The leather-head makes a sound in every
way similar to the “ knocker ” (loose pieces of iron
knocking together), used on many prospecting
shafts; hut this is a mere coincidence, for he
makes the same sound in districts that were never
guilty of harboring even one wild-cat.
11 * * #
Somebody thought he had discovered a
baby bunyip near Seymour (Vic.) the other day.
The animal had the head of a rabbit, a large
irregular scaly body, and a long tapering tail.
When discovered it was squirming about on the
ground. It escaped into a burrow, and was dug
out. Then it proved to be a sft. snake that had.
swallowed nearly the whole of a rabbit tail first,
and was patiently waiting till there was room in-
side for the head. So again the bunyip disap-
pears into the dim recesses of Myth.
“DONE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was at the Squatters’ Arms that tipsy Councillor
McKenna,
While referring to his bank deposits, startled folks around
By precipitately betting Spink (our local beak) a tenner
That in twenty minutes he would let him see “a hundred
pound.”
When they’d wagered, old McKenna on his monetary
mission
Started off, and Spink dropped down into the cellar
through the floor,
Where he waited till the boaster, with tumultuous
expedition,
Back with twenty fivers in his fist came rushing through
the door.
To the customers McKenna then appealed for informa-
tion
As to “where the blazes” Spink had gone; but little
could he get.
They all seemed quite oblivious of his accurate location,
And observed that he had better “hunt him up ” and
win the bet.
“ You must hurry up, McKenna,” said the harman, who
was trusted
With the stakes. “ I’ve set my stop-watch just in honor
of the bet;
Spink must see that hundred pounds in twenty minutes,
or you’ve busted
Up yer boodle, Mac. Let’s see ! You’ve got eleven
minutes yet.”
“ P’r’aps he’s gone to meet a lady, Mac,” remarked Fitz-
gerald drily;
“Or got underneath the doormat,” ventured Simpson,
with a grin ;
“ Fancy givin’sterlin’tenners round like that,” observed
O’Reilly;
“ It’s the kind of wanton waste,” said Smith, “ I calls a
mortal sin.”
Then McKenna hunted round for Spink, whilst flourishing
those fivers,
With original profanity that soothed the wicked ears
Of the petted cockatoo ; and half-a-dozen bullock-drivers
Said they’d never heard such language, and went out and
left their beers.
There ismelody in swearing. Some just mention “H ”
and “blazes,”
Or p’r’aps touch on other idioms intermittently when
filled
With the throes of discontent; but McKenna cursed in
phrases,
Comprehensive, rich and flowery, and his words were
words that thrilled.
Then he sprinted through the dwelling rooms, dived
underneath the tables,
With despatch that filled the rats W'ith apprehension, and
he fired
Down the backyard and investigated kennels, coops and
stables
Energetic’ly, until the twenty minutes had expired.
Back into the bar he staggered then, defeated and
dejected,
As he flicked the perspiration from his forehead, nose,
and chin,
And beheld the crafty, calculating Spink, as he expected,
Calmly tucking those two tenners in his wallet with a
grin.
Old McKenna’s attitude was picturesque as he demanded
Back his tenner with expostulations lurid, red, and loud,
Whereon Spink, who liked his little joke, was satisfied,
and handed
Back the money w'hen he’d made him order whiskies for
the crowd.
VIC.
ALFRED E. BRIDGES.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and,
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany. '
R.C.: “Mary” disfigured by forced rhymes
such as “ The clanging- noise that she employs.” Now,
who employs a noise ? It suggests the old conundrum
“What sort of noise annoys an oyster?” S.H.B. :
“ Art Gallery ” dull and trivial Woodki: “Blossom”
depressing Byronia: Terribly conventional
Patience : “ Letter ” plain and ordinary and void of
thrill....Dwt. : But in England, where the donkey is
common, he can bray in the horse’s ear without making
the horse turn a hair. And where camels are an every-
day spectacle the horse treats them with derision....
Herbert B.: “Cheap Trip” is cheap all round....
Bluey: Well, you didn’t hit it Carlos: Small
poem lingered in doubt for a while, and then Sheol
struck it and it was obliterated like Gomorrah....
Hoy: “Paper” is rather a wooden species of verse....
Wattle Blossom (S.A.): Try the Family Herald. If that
paper had any soul, it would pay us a commission upon
tne large amount of tame, domestic fiction that we bring
under its notice Pauline Maher: No room or in-
clination for competitions Dal Mack: When reading
your verse we concluded that your forte would be prose.
Since then we’ve read your story. Don’t remember
“Autumn.” Nameless: Just misses Panhandle
Pete : There’s a speck of promise in the pan... .Demeter :
Discursive dreariness Philo: Try elsewhere; mere
descriptive matter doesn’t attract us—other might make
a par Fred. D.: After nine pages you remark, “And
that’s the tale I set out to tell.” Set out earlier next
time Wilhelm G.: No; we don’t want any more
of that nature.... .Ballaratite : Too small beer
Kodak : The tiling sent in by the man who borrowed
your pen-naihe didn’t amount to an ode. Should call it
a Rubaiyat by Omar Keyhole C.8.H.: “Captive”
.rather unimportant G.H.V.: The Bulletin knows
that the N.S.W. North Coast has many industries other
than dairying. But Cow is the chief craze there....
W.J.B. : You don’t reply to a single one of the paints
raised by The Bulletin article on the building trades
award Tris : Rather pretty words, but not much in the
way ofideas.. . J.E.H.: Isn’t “ Green Old Man ” fromsome
American collection of comic verse ? Maori: Anything
accepted will be paid for promptly. Rates vary from £1
a column (nearly equal to £2 a column of the daily press)
to £2 10s. a column Saillie Podroy : Hardly enough
meat in your pars Larrikin: We regret to say it, but
we fancy that Venus lady didn’t tell you the naked truth
when she skited of the “ artists, poets, emperors, and
millionaires” who had adored her.. ..M.M.: Herewith
one verse on spec:—
A vice-like grasp need not be vicious ; in these sweet
abodes
Ye are all penitents ; so are we too, or else
In the fair way to Sheol; sin compels
In Melbourne’s streets ; in Melbourne all do covet wealth
And strength of mind or body ; money-making health
Is all they want; I shall walk henceforth on the sweet
bush roads.
....A. J.Waring : Now we know what’s become of War-
ing. No wonder he fled from Browning ! H.B. : You
aptly remark,
“ Grunts the stunt bear with fret unmusical.”
Or, it may be “feet unmusical”; anyway, it sounds
true... .Arthur Gola: As trite and platitudinous as the
worst of Longfellow. Don’t write so much. Take the
pledge not to drink at the fountain of the Muse till you’re
really thirsty O. G. Churcher : You can’t “break the
heaving deep” in this paper. If there is any heaving to
be done, we can do it with a sure aim... .Oscar M.; One
vivid line, —
“ A sunset wrecked within her hair.”
....J.H.M.: So sweeping that it was swept away
Maggie Kennedy: Promising, but too blatantly moral.
Even when we are moral we aren’t blatant S.G.M. :
“ She was dead,” you begin. Now, if only you had
stopped there !..'..Jess Burns: Nothing can be done
with a person who writes like this:—“A faint breath
of dainty perfumed negligence wafted round the
shadowy room, and lingered ’neath the dark fluttering
curls on the woman’s broad white brow.”...
Barefoot: Promising, but none quite suitable
Selknu: We’ve had about enough of that subject.
H.M.C. : (1) Not taking any jokes about ladies
physiography (which means her natural features); (2) rail
joke may go; if so will remit Billy Something-or-
other (writing hard to read): Your ideas might do some
good in attracting a few volunteers. The Bulletin pins
its faith to compelling every young man to train himself
for the defence of his country. The problem is too
serious to be fooled with Relay: (1) Yes; if copy is
sent to Tiie Bulletin and the editor thinks it would suit
The Lone Hand it goes to that solitary fist, which
reciprocates in kind ; but, roughly speaking, it is no
good sending Bulletin matter (certainly not pars.)
to The Lone Hand. (2) Your batch unfortunately
found the W.P.8., and got there a shade quicker
because you wrote on both sides of the paper....
C.B.W. : Hardly enough snap R.J.I. : Only one of
your thinks was really worth thinking.. ..Wurrym : The
society, so far as The Bulletin knows, is genuine ; there is
nothing to suggest suspicion. It doesn’t propose, so far
as known, to run candidates, only to cu tivata an Aus
tralian sentiment, relying on voluntary contributions for
funds Grey Heron : You don’t give the name of the
magazine responsible for the banana story J.0.0’D.:
No need to throw “ poetry ” at Oliver; he did his duty
and probably doesn’t want the fact to be embalmed in
poor verse .... Auto: Old copies of Bulletin of first five or
10 years will be bought at the office ; others not wanted..
Essyllt H. G.: Almost pardoned your poem in order to
print that name beneath it.... The Colonel: Consider
the slovenliness of it:—
Australia, dear, this wish I send,
That all the fates may thee befriend,
That you may rise with heart aglow, &e.
B.G. : Sorry, but can’t stand that old “warning-
dawning” rhyme Flick (Westralia) : Insufficiently-
stamped letter to hand Debe :No brightness in your
cold yarn “S.”: In the course of your screed you
shout “ Shame !” “Awful! ” “Disgusting !” “ Terrible !”
“ Horrible ! ” “ Disgraceful! ” “ Pitiable !” “ Rats ! ”
“Shoo!” “Wombats!” “White Ants!” and “Cock-
roaches ! ” yet you don’t seriously attempt to controvert
any of “ L.E.’s” statements. Even if you shout “Ele-
phants ! ” and “ Whales !” these animals aren’t evidence,
though they may be meat Judex: “Subsequent” is
an adjective, and to make that sentence grammatical
you need to suppose an ellipsis “ at a time subsequent
to.” “Subsequently” is an adverb, and wouldn’t be
strictly grammatical in the sentence quoted. But
the sentence is, anyhow, clumsy. “ After January 1
1901 ” would seem as well and be quite clear
Unsuitable: Manx,Paddymelon, Jum, E.J.A Utterly
unsuitable : Luna, A. J. Jobbin.


A -favs+Vitfed boy Wried lw A stemmed elderly
-fl j\rou%U M«|koMt-ae Sh-KOule for &UKWood &oy s ' Honfe
heavily lji«, br'eecljei unbuttoned So
Ije
-fye Premier ftf r oe-it)
C° n f eret rc&
o »-> E.<d«c n 'to be t/elci itj
[j>n<ioi m 1
Person Coles'
o|- ~$C- youtC)
'frow) ‘He
x j
Here } Aon^~ ’sfetid"
4ere dqreciit in'
b yo\>e.rN s J u OYI
\ || ?LJ
decctoc y !J£<
"tadec*v>f WW*
ofr Sea,
Whic* bfelows?
-$ e c^ rv,on '^j®
\~ xji
m «. (4ow looK'er* t gerJsJ~
W wUn addin' the;
r fth,Won School
°«f
*« y.ays H*y* 1
f .•" J>
w**?
SO"^
"BLPOoy
RE.VOLI/PON§'**H
KOT allowed!
"A °f oa J
trj/A<f COhr/c b\oyp me,
iine S of civil
j'eVolMnorf! (RevTrc^r)
S*.Pefe Here ! drof>
fyzjr j y©ttre on itfe.
[\prd§ old
Uy !
Hons.
v*t>
Wfyy cJoe«-> not
C\ overftmeo rW
live
"boys
'fVgVT~ ,'f^ rvs
wor K [
( A $ e )
PAb -li Ame^ t
M Ou^e
Irvine
f® 1 ' roonj
in P2o'liV' r J«*>+“-
tyoose fo r *■*•*
* f^»' r V "*
V - The Co o' ' MV 1 '
x,> 0 y«s ! J
I see 2v,
Kindergarten Sc^oo/
on -
Whoojs !
f
\ " Iris cabled of
Klelb "tomb of
Queen T€ic fn a«cte*>f Tbeb«j .
She SJ\'d +© "be v**y
! *• • _
( The M&lb mv» (o*»*i»s Snes
Shcs Ar Sbes'dc^d > buT
if ejl sh*s wonivi j**
pillion
of
Sfv "to fife la C- d [
£1,000,000 V c
. N«Wyt)KK
need
fv/»^
Auditor'.art <> 3*
Million eone !'.”
— Welli cal biw it- I we
ne<riw+^worp^ l>ol^'' > ‘\ Mtl«.
MELBOURNE, EGYPT, NEW YORK. AND ELSEWHERE.


THE ANNEXATION OF THE NORTHERN TERRITORY.
TO-MORROW WE HOPE.


tThe^WorlUhDenl-iFnicei
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The late J. Zimri Sellar, the Labor mem-
ber for Adelaide, who died late last year, only left
£l2O behind him.
There may or may not be political signi-
ficance in the fact that G. H. Reid, who, it is
well known, has always had a liking for physical
exercise, was seen lately examining a pair of
running shoes.
S.A. Chief Justice Way is the champion
fusser of his State. He has an idea that nothing
can go on without his help, and is, therefore,
president of everything, from the poultry society
right up to the Supreme Court Bench.
For years it was complained that John
PascoeFawkner, one of the pioneers of Melbourne,
had nothing but a suburban park named after
him. Now, by way of repairing the neglect, Mel-
bourne has named a cemetery after him.
An Australian State Premier who had an
addition to his family lately thought of christen-
ing the youngster “ State Rights.” That was a
style and title affected by many parish politicians
in America during the early years of the U.S.
Old Joe Thompson has been telling his
brother “bookies” in England that this is his
50th year at the game. The sort of book that
Joe Thompson made in Australia in 1857 didn’t
come within the definition of “the game,” if
history speaks truly.
It is 50 years this month since the first
members of the S.A. House of Assembly were
elected. Only one of them —Luther Scammel, a
stalwart Yorkshireman—still survives. He is a
wholesale chemist, and a splendid advertisement
of the advantages of taking his own drugs, or of
avoiding them—whichever it is.
Old Captain Roe, father of the Westralian
J. B. Roe, who died last week, was chairman of
the first meeting ever held to form a mining co.
in Westralia. There are (or were the other day)
only three surviving shareholders—Henry Strick-
land, W. Rewell, and J. Bateman. Though it
lasted 60 years the co. never paid a dividend till
it came to be liquidated.
It is stated of a South Australian Labor
member who died recently that, having married a
wife younger than himself, he made over all his
property to her. She predeceased him without
having made a will, and her relatives insisted on
taking two-thirds of her money. So the ancient
and reckless member had to sell his goods,
chattels, and real property, and pay away the
bulk of the proceeds to strangers.
William Gilbert, chosen as the Ass candi-
date for the Adelaide district in the S.A. Legis-
lative Council in succession to the late Labor
member Jelley, completed his 78th year on Febru-
ary 23. He sat for 26 years in the House of
Assembly, but did not stand for his old district
last year, as he feared that his name had become
Slush. He is a dealer in chaff, and has made a
good deal of money out of that cow and horse
provender.
W. P. Crick is fond of telling a story of a
resident in England who derives all his vast
income from investments in N.S.W. That resi
dent is tapped now and again for subscriptions to
Australian charities, but is mostly flinty. Even
a big coal-mine calamity didn’t draw a copper
from him. But, according to Crick, the mam-
moth absentee once paid £lO,OOO for a doll at a
bazaar, because a royal personage presided at the
stall.
LOYALTY.
CENSUS TAKER : “ And where is your husband ,
madam ?”
LADY : “He died four years ago.”
CENCUS TAKER : “ Pardon me, but judging by
your child you have married again.”
LADY : “ Indeed I 'avc not. I’ve more respect
for his memory .”
u. : Judging mainly from their appear-
ance while delivering their public yelps, I believe
Judkins is a sufferer from toothache, Tregear
from chronic cold feet, and other wailful “re-
formers ” from. dyspepsia, swelled head and
spasms. Some seem to have all these ailments.
It is sad that our noisy brethren should be thus
afflicted, but I really can’t see why they should
choose a church as a suitable place for the utter-
ance of howls caused by their anguish.
Last week the Sydney courts were in-
terested in an application to have W. P. Crick
struck off the roll, an action by Crick against the
Speaker of the Assembly, an action by Crick
against the Sergeant-at-Arms of the Assembly,
and an action by the State for the recovery of
income-tax alleged to have accumulated against
Nicholas Willis during his absence in Africa.
It seems that the least Crick and Willis can do is
to present the N.S.W. Law Department with a
new door-mat. The old one must be pretty well
worn out by the feet of Criok and Willis.
Alexander Berry, whose
estate is coming back to
the N.S.W. people under
various conditions, ob-
tained most of his
Coolangatta land
as a free grant.
He travelled
from England in
the same boat as
Governor Bris-
bane, and had
no difficulty in
arranging mat-
ters. In these
days matters
were easily ar-
ranged. On an
earlier trip he
introduced to
Sydney a cargo
of spirits which
set him well on
hisfinanciallegs,
though, accord-
ing to Governor
Bligh, it pro-
strated most of
the community.
Alexander the
Grabber lived to
be 92, and then,
dying childless,
bequeathed
everything to
brother David.
David, in his
turn, lived to be
97, and, after
bequeathing
£lOO,OOO to a
Scotch univer-
sity, left the
balance of the
estate to his nephew,
Dr. John Hay.
Died in harness,
some five or six weeks
ago in Glasgow, at the age
of 06, John Miller, the oldest
church beadle in Scotland, or
anywhere else. A hard record to
break. John kept a filmy eye on the plate to
the last.
David Paton, who died in Adelaide last
week, at 66, was chief Presbyterian preacher of
that city, and prominent on 'the University and
Public Library boards. He had been ill for
months, and half of Adelaide, when it read the
obituary notices of missionary Paton, concluded
that the Adelaide preacher had gone to a brighter
and a better kirk. David Paton came from Scot-
land in 1877, his predecessor in the pulpit, John
Davidson, having taken the post of Professor of
English Literature at the infant University of
Adelaide.
It is related that the great Malcolm
McEacharn, of Melbourne, used to try to instil
a sense of reverence into his employees. A raw
youth who obtained a job in the garden was
informed—“lt is a custom amongst my men—of
course it doesn’t really matter—but it’s just a
custom to touch their hats when I pass.” The
new man promised to fall into line. When
Malcolm happened along on the morrow he was
met by a wild colonial boy waving his hat and
leaping in the air and shouting “ Hooray ! ” The
wild colonial boy got the sack.
The late John See had real enthusiasm
about opera. He had heard nearly every opera
produced in Australia, and could talk in an
interesting way about them and sing some of the
airs in a fairly-good tenor voice. Writer heard
See sing selections from quite a number of operas
on the road over the Big Hill, between Grafton
and Glen Innes, when the kangaroos sat erect and
wondered. See moistened his throat once or
twice with sips from a square bottle. That was
19 years ago, when he was young and gay, and
before he was fool enough to take office.
Police Inspector John Ahearn, who used
to boast of scenting cattle thieves 40 miles off in
West Queensland, died before luck found him. A
sum of £60,000, left by Dr. A’Heron, of Jersey
(U.S.A.), goes to next of kin ; and the Queensland
Ahearn section alone survives. Of these only
Mrs. Foster, of Warwick, is believed to remain ;
she was a sister of Inspector John and the medico.
The difference in the spelling of the name is
attributed to John. They were a Cork family,
and John for some reason preferred one spelling,
while the medical brother stuck to the other. The
inspector married a sister of lawyer and politician
Thynne, one of the identities of Brisbane.
John Norton, the new R.C. Bishop of
Port Augusta (S.A.), is a builder as well as an
ecclesiastic. He was a Ballarat boy, and when he
left school was put into the office of G. R. John-
son, the theatrical architect of Melbourne, where
he remained some years. So Bishop Norton pro-
bably knows more about building theatres than
churches. The late Archbishop Goold, of Mel-
bourne, rejected Jdhn Norton as having “no
vocation”. The Jesuits who educated him said
he had the required article, and John packed his
portmanteau and went to Adelaide, where he was
accepted by Bishop Reynolds, who sent him to
Europe to pursue his studies.
“ Stony ” : Tender nerves are owned by a
fatted person who is the leading political light of
a rather remote Melbourne suburb. He lives in a
mansion some little distance from the railway
station, and always sends a ’phone message for his
son to meet him when he is coming home after
dark. He does this for fear his person may be
relieved of valuables before he can arrive in the
safe shelter of his little £5OOO crib. When the
son and heir is not available, he takes a cab home,
and the cabby has to dismount and see his fare
right up to the front door. There he must ring
the bell and wait until a flunkey comes on the
scene, lest kidnappers should lurk in the recesses of
the rockery or hide with malign purpose behind
the statue of the Three Graces.
Floral item :
Alderman Patrick Stanley, of Eedfern (Sydney), has
retired from the Council, at the age of 82. The ex-
alderman, in a humble way, is an old Sydney identity.
In the long ago, John Baptist, from Portugal, opened a
butcher’s shop in Goulburn-street. In the late thirties
he took up a site on the sandhills, at the southern
end of Bourke-street, Surry Hills, then a wilder-
ness of sand, and founded a market garden, which sup-
plied Sydney with vegetables. Horticulture was added,
and before florists’ shops existed the elite of Sydney
travelled out to Baptist’s for bridal and tombstone
wreaths. In the old George-street Markets (dating from
1839) Baptist had a stall which was engineered by Mr.
Stanley. On John Baptist’s death, in the early seventies,
his immense property in all parts of the city was divided
between a son and daughter (still living). The business
in the Markets fell to Mr. Stanley. When the old Mar-
kets were demolished, Mr. Stanley removed his business
to George-street, on the w r est side, near Bathurst-street,
and there it is still, the oldest of its kind in Sydney.
QUESTION OF GEOGRAPHY.
“ Shay, boy, am I on the St. Kilda Road ?”
“ No, yer on the jag.”
When Charles Tucker, who has just been
sent to gaol in connection with the Adelaide
Customs frauds, was arrested he was an M.P.
The recent dissolution cured that, but when he
was sentenced he was a city alderman, a J.P., a
member of the Licensing Bench, a’member of the
Hospital Board, and a trustee in the estate of a
man who recently left, subject to a life interest,
£lOO,OOO to the Adelaide Hospital and £50,000 to
the Children’s Hospital. Tucker was one of the
handsomest and most popular men in South Aus-
tralia, and many persons still refuse to believe in
his guilt.
Garnet Portus, N.S.W.’s fourth Rhodes
scholar, is not a big gun at Sydney ’Varsity, but
the conditions, which demand proficiency both at
the examinations and in athletics, narrow the
field of choice. Originally he was a clerk in the
public service, but he gave it up to study for the
Anglican Church, and, after his three years’ resi-
dence at Oxford, he intends to return to Sydney
and wear the long ecclesiastical raiment there-
abouts. If he can say “Haw” correctly on his
return, the Clergy Importation Society may over-
look his Australian birth and give him a decent
living.
Charles Tucker is not the first S.A. parlia-
mentarian to go to gaol. The previous case was that
of a prominent merchant who had traded so very
recklessly that a scandalised Insolvency Judge gave
him two years without any criminal trial. Public
sympathy was rather with the culprit that time.
He had evidently been unable to realise that his
ship could actually sink under his feet, and had
borrowed right and left, after real hope was gone,
in a desperate endeavor to keep on. Some of the
latest lenders—old friends—when they found that
their good thousands had been borrowed just to
throw' into a bottomless hole, turned savage and
pursued him with “ charges.” And once, long ago,
there was a S.A. Attorney-General who only re-
tained his liberty by sudden flight—about the
biggest downfall of Gent One on record.
‘ 4 Spring ” writes about nothing very
coherent: —
During- next session of N.S.W. Assembly I’m going to
watch David Storey. He might get blown out next elec-
tion, and I want to enjoy him while he lasts. David re-
presents Hats, and is the bright particular star in a House
of Dreariness. Last session he watched the Ministerial
benches with the vindictiveness of a man who thinks
that he could shine there as brilliantly as the gloss on
one of his own belltoppers. Last time I saw him he was
dressed immaculately in a grey frock coat, a beaming
buttonhole and other things, and when he stood awhile
at the entrance scornfully surveying his fellow-
members, the gaze of everyone * was upon him.
Having posed sufficiently he strode haughtily to a seat
whence he could keep his cold, watchful eye on the
doings of the Government. The Address-in-Reply was
being cussed—or discussed. Storey sat restlessly waiting
to blister the Ministry. For some hours other members
deliberately jumped up in front of him so as to get him
properly narked and prevent him catching the Speaker’s
eye. From the gallery could be seen the wild
rebellious thoughts surging across his flame-colored
cranium. Suddenly he sprang up with the indomit-
able alacrity of Mephistopheles bounding from the
Infernal Regions. His cloven coat-tails reminded one
of Satan’s hoof uplifted to stamp out virtue. As he
strode to the table the gallery thought that the great
Hat Trade was at last to be put on a firm basis, and that
Carruthers was doomed. His oration bristled with
parish-pump heroics ; and was greeted with wild applause
from all sides of the House. Other members simply
alluded to “ the speech,” but Storey is the type of man
who always refers to the neglected municipal gutter or
the untidy suburban street as His Majesty’s drain
and His Majesty’s highway. Therefore he called the
aforesaid production “His Excellency the Governor’s
Speech,” what time he bowed lowly towards the Upper
House in which the Governor had recently briefly pers-
pired. Storey’s bow is a masterpiece, and he gets it in
wherever he can. But Carruthers still reigns. Yet
next session something may happen. Storey may even
sit on his beautiful, glossy plug hat by accident.
Yic. Premier Bent continues to fall off.
He was preparing to address a country depu-
tation from his motor car, the other day, when
the chauffeur got a move on, with the result that
the Honorable' the Premier bit his native dust.
Thomas landed on his waistcoat, and when picked
up was unable to continue his address, all the
wind having been knocked out of him. He admits
the country saved £lOO by the fall, as he was
about to promise that sum to the deputation, but
changed his mind with his second wind.
The case of Henry Stratton Izard, the
Wairarapa (M.L.) solicitor, who recently got five
years for spending £18,812 of trust moneys, is a
splendid advertisement for the Public Trustee,
whose honesty is guaranteed by the State. If
ever there was a man whose interest it was to run
straight it was Henry Stratton Izard. He be-
longed to one of the “best families” in Maori-
land, and his relations hold high positions in the
social, political and financial worlds. In fact, he
was the sort of man who could not afford to go
wrong on account of his family. Furthermore, he
was married to a charming lady who had consider-
able expectations and a fair income of her own.
He was well off, and his business was growing,
for as the fertile Wairarapa district went ahead,
so did Henry Stratton Izard, who was the out-
ward and visible sign of the district’s prosperity.
Apparently, Henry Stratton was not dishonest in
the ordinary sense, any more than the gorilla is
when it annexes property ; he was simply devoid
of moral sense. He laid himself out to have a wild
and lurid time. Just before the crash came he
trotted round Australia on a holiday tour, had a
great time, saw the Cup, and went back to Maori-
land to file his schedule and announce his short-
age just as calmly as if it had been anybody else’s
shortage. Now he is booked for five years, and
as he is sure to be a good-conduct prisoner, he
will probably get one-third of that knocked off
for good behavior, even if he doesn’t get out
almost immediately because gaol life proves un-
healthy for him.
From an old English pressman :
The death is reported by cable of William Howard
Russell, the over-rated war correspondent of London
Times. Russell was born in County Dublin, in 1821. He
joined the Times as reporter in 1843, and was its corres-
pondent during portion of the Danish-Prussian-German-
Schleswig-Holstein scrap that ambled around in the years
between 1848 and 1851. After writing for various papers,
Russell practically dropped journalism for bar practice.
In 1854 the Aberdeen Ministry, shivering on the brink of
war, was barracked into taking the plunge by the Times.
Then that journal found that the expert it had
selected as representative for the Crimea could not
go, and Russell got the chance of his lifetime by
being picked. Up to that time war correspondence
had hardly been taken seriously. Russell knew little of
military matters, but he had the gift of the blarney, and
managed to acquire a camp reputation as a humorist,
mainly on the strength of a touch of brogue. His much-
boomed letters, exposing the mismanagement of the cam-
paign, were not unique (Wood, the Standard correspon-
dent, forwarded similar communications to his paper),
but the Times was then at the height of its power, and
other journals were scarcely heeded. Russell’s Crimean
writings had much to do with the temporary clearing
away of various antiquated military absurdities, but
there has been a fresh crop of similar idiocies to take
their place in pretty well every subsequent war. How-
ever, Russell suffered severely ever afterwards from
swelled head, and set himself up as a kind of modern
Mars. The Times turned him loose on every war of any
size up to 1882. In the American Civil War his sneers
concerning the defeat of the Federals at the first battle
of Bull Run caused the Northerners to warn off all
British correspondents. When men of the calibre of
Archibald Forbes were discovered by other papers there
was a slump in Russell stocks. Besides war books,
Russell produced a stodgy novel and several dull volumes
written round royalty. He failed as a Tory candidate
for the Commons, and was tame secretary and chronicler
to King Ned during various tours made in his Prince of
Wales period. In 1860 Russell founded the Army and
Navy Gazette, which he edited until quite recently.
A COOKING ANALOGY.
SINGLE CLUBBIE: “ Take ray advice, old man,
and get home.”
MARRIED CLUBBIE : “ That'sh only jumpsh (hie)
from frying-pansh (hie) into firesh (hie).”
Captain Barton, about whose administra-
tion of Papua a Royal Commission has reported
most unfavorably, first reached the Possession as
private secretary to Governor Le Hunte, .at a
salary of £3OO per annum. He held this position
for a couple of years, and was then appointed
Commandant of the Armed Native Constabulary,
at the same salary. Next, he became Resident
Magistrate, Central Division, and retained the
position of Commandant. Shortly after this
appointment Le Hunte left Papua for South
Australia, and Judge Robinson was appointed
Acting-Administrator. Robinson came to a
tragic end, and a telegram summoned “Johnny’
Barton to Melbourne. Then he was appointed to
the position of Administrator by Prime Minister
Deakin, at a salary of £1250. There were
then seven officers in the service holding higher
positions than Barton. One was Mr. A. M.
Campbell, the officer so highly spoken of by the
Papua Royal Commission. Apparently Barton s
Johnnyism counted for much in the appointment.


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution!
30,000 Customers Served
*ll
! !:!!;!
mm
fife
X
Xi
* i'
■ I:
MIHIIi 'll
IBs!
Hi
RH
SHEEN
I
c; -a
!i! 6
Sllli
m
■w
ills
Z ; wSwfcal
IMI
LpsWil
SSmmm
m
'—s
s
m
as
I
*
NSHSpU
'ii.''
■
BS
■ ‘"I
1
Mil
m
g'iSrj-h'i
3
ii
1 ■ Sj
:>n>
:f!
H
#7*4
IS
as
fiuV i» ••!
iSSiWii'Ki:"'
iiai|i!!!jiiirJ!iS‘i !
ijif
BS
Li
il" si I!
H
« B
■6
e w
lie
t»s
ANTHONY HORDER
HigH-Grade Electro-plate
No. 1059.
Mounted Napkin Ring's, Electro-
plated on Britannia Metal,
5/3 each.
Eg-g- Frames, Electro-plated on
Nickel Silver—4 Cups and Spoons,
Gold-lined, 20/- and 30/-
No. 1065.
Jewel Casket, Electro-plated on Britannia
Metal, Satin lined, chased design, 17/6.
No. 1057.
Mounted Napkin
Ring's, Electro-plated
on Britannia Metal,
pretty design, 4/9.
Mounted Napkin Ring's,
Electro-plated on Britannia
Metal, choice design, 6/- each.
No. 1011.
Single Jam Dish, Electro-plated'
on Nickel Silver Frame, rioh Ruby
Glass Dish, 14/-
AT . .
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 1071.
Epergnes, Electro-plated on Britannia Metal,
Engraved Glass Vase and Dish, height about
18in., 38/6.
No. 1069.
Inkstands, Electro-plated on Britannia Metal,
1 bottle, 11/6.
No. 994.
No. 995.
Breakfast Cruet, Electro-plated on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles (No. 994), 19/-
Breakfast Cruet, Electro-plated on Nickel Silver,
4 Cut Glass Bottles (No. 995), 13/6
ANTHONY HORDERN SONS,
SYDNEY.
providerJ er J New Palace Emporium,
On the Historic Slope of BricKfield Hill,


DYMOCK’S CIRCULATING LIBRARY. —A sub-
scription to the above library secures for you the best
reading’ published either in England or America, whether
it be fiction, history, travel, biography, science,
retninscence, etc. More than sufficient quantities of all
the popular new books are always available to meet
requirements immediately. Lucas Malet’s “ Far Horizon,”
Percy White’s “ Eight Cousins,” Ralph Connor’s “ Doctor
of Crow’s Nest,” are just now the most popular novels,
while the history making Hohenlohe Memoirs and Bram
Stoker’s chatty life of Henry Irving hold first place
amongst the more solid readers. Anyof these and thous-
ands of others may be had by any subscriber immediately
upon request. Town subscriptions range from £1 Is. and
£2 2s. per annum, and country rates for parcels of eight
volumes, sent as often as desired, range from £2 12s. 6d.
per annum ; shorter periods and larger parcels at pro-
portionate rates. Catalogues and particulars posted to
any address upon application to Dymock’s Book Arcade,
428 George-street, Sydney.*
The Quickest Cure for a Colfl.— Forty years
ago the Black Currant Balsam was the best remedy for
the cure of bronchitis, coughs and colds. It’s the best to-
day because it’s Nature’s medicine for chest complaints.
Prepared from that well-known garden variety of black
currant it contains all the delicious flavor of the fruit-
Medicine time becomes a pleasure when Black Currant
Balsam is to be taken. Sold everywhere. Price Is. 6d.
and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Senior’s
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
HEERING’S ’
CHERRY BRANDY
ESTABLISHED 1818.
MX E
EVER
TRY
HAMS AND BACON ?
If you have never tried this famous
brand of Hams and Bacon you can
have no idea how delicious they are.
You have longed for sweet breakfast
bacon but have never been able to get
it. You CAN get it in Q.M.E. It is
surpassingly delicious, and always the
same.
ASK YOUR QROOER FOR Q.M.E.
HAMS OR BACON, NEXT TIME.
tt
Goutez et Compare*
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
Ij oL Are the Ideal Rubrics
RAINCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, February 19, 1907.
My Dear Arini.—
So the stuffing is knocked out of the Essipoff-
Ouchakoff romance, and it fizzles down to the
plain, unvarnished elopement of two middle-aged
persons. Elopements of this brand are of no use
to the sentimentalist, to the melodramatist, or to
Mary Merely Ann, seated on the chip-box,
reading near the kitchen sink. Countess Oucha-
koff, who was evidently out for dramatic effect,
and desirous of the bubble notoriety, even at
the cable’s end, must have recognised this lack of
varnish on her tale, and tried to atone for it by
“painted devils,” such as an infuriated hus-
band and a large fortune lost for love. For
months the English press, at two a penny,
lias given columns to the history of the
fleeing pair, rushing through Europe, America,
and the Isle of Dogs, with the outraged
husband only half-a-yard behind and gaining
rapidly, his whiskers and his artillery and his cuss-
language streaming in the wind. The Flying
Dutchman was a moss-grown person com-
pared with the meteoric .Russian trio. General
Ouchakotf, according to Madame and the bawbee
press, intended to kill the Captain with bullets
and swords, or boil him over a slow iceberg, or
something, and then haul his guilty partner back
to Russia by the tail, and put her in an asylum, or
else shut her up for the remnant of her
days in the woodshed. ' Mention of the large
private fortune she had forfeited for love was
frequent. The lovers poured over to Australia,
stopped a few days in Sydney, and finally pulled
up in Melbourne for want of funds.
They got a couple of columns of unexciting
comment from a couple of Australian papers, but
although several liners have come into port since
Olga and Ivan (or whatever their front names are)
arrived, the Furious Third tarries elsewhere, and
the murder is postponed. Last English mail
the ha.’penny press put the drab roof on the ash-
colored romance by saying, on the authority of
the eloperess’s mother, that that lady never had
a fortune, and,. on the husband’s authority, that
he never pursued them worth a rusty blunderbuss.
In fact, when he heard that Essipoff had run
away with his wife, he asked in effect, “Why
run ? ” He did come to England, so the ha’pen-
nies assert, but it was with the intention of
making comfortable provision for his wife. Just
like a God’s good man instead of an Ivan the
Terrible.
Perhaps the whole thing is a put-up joke, and
now the Countess may join Bland Holt’s eo., or
go into a bar, and Captain Essipoff into a Paris
cafe. Possibiy they may prove to be a concealed
advt. for a hair restorer.
The latest-created and youngest Judge, Mr.
Street, whose investiture took place with great
pomp and circumstance, last week, has a wife.
She is one of the Austins—a good-looking family,
whose “ Baa ” was once loud and of considerable
value amongst the pure merinos of this State.
Edith, third daughter of Federal Chief Justice
a id Mrs. Griffith, was married last Tuesday to
Ai r. George Doyle, who has a stud-sheep farm at
Molong. Bridegroom’s sister, a handsome girl who
has done considerable earth-girdling, is engaged
to Mr. Percy Griffith, who acts as associate to his
distinguished paternal progenitor. At the wed-
ding of last Tuesday the best man was Mr. G. E.
Flannery, who, report says, will “ arrive ’’with
a full band and a peacock guard, and sit on the
apex of the Bar—in time. Meantime he lives in
single selfishness, and gives his moral support to
his men friends when they stand under the floral
bell and the choir twitters “ P, Perfect Love.”
An English paper announces the engagement of
Mr. Maxwell Learmonth, third son of the late
Mr. A. J. Livingstone Learmonth, to a Miss Las-
celles, a niece of the Earl of Harewood. As
some of the Livingstone Learmonths have taken
root in this State, the item may be of interest.
From Johannesburg (South Africa) a corres-
pondent sends a yard-long account of the mar-
riage of Mr. E. C. Long Innes, of the S.A.C., son
of the late Justice Innes, of N.S.W., to Miss
Violet Alison Vivian, “the well-known and bril-
liant violiniste.” Bridegroom and his best man
were in uniform, and hymns 280 and 578 were
sung. These are the most interesting features of
the narrative.
Occasionally, from some no mean city in
America, comes tidings of that amazing Queens-
land lad, de Conlay. He was raised at Warwick,
drifted into journalism, and was the only press-
man who succeeded in interviewing the Duke of
York. The train enshrining the mighty atom
stopped at the Warwick platform, and de Conlay
arose from between the rails, or out of the
Royal dog-box, or from under the ducal seat. No
one is quite sure how he did it, but do it
he did, and his interview was telegraphed every-
where. Possibly he began the conversation with
“Good morning, Duke.” Soon afterwards he
came to Sydney, struck up an acquaintance with
the captain of an American wind-jammer lving in
port, went off in the old craft, and was three
months getting to San Francisco. He had a gold
watch and a gold tooth, and used to assert
grinfully that the two were enough to
travel on. When he desired to impress
a man he smiled on the golden side of
his mouth, and glanced at his gold watch.
The readiest American could not teach de Conlay
much. At Los Angeles, whilst waiting for a
train, he saw Mrs. Langtry (who has a ranche
thereabouts) on the platform. Cheerfully pulling
off his Queensland panama he introduced himself,
and started to interview her. While talking she
touched his arm, saying, “ Better stand from the
edge, here’s a train coming.” A few hours later
, ")ad despatched to the New York newspapers a
thrilling account of How the Jersey Lily saved
a Pressman’s Life.” He has swooped upon every
city of note in America, and usually stays with the
mayor He earns a big income, for he syndi-
cates his work, and lately got engaged to a mil-
lionaire s daughter, and still more lately the en-
gagement was broken off.
Mention of Mrs. Langtry reminds that she is
now a titled Lily. Hubby number two, Gerald
de Bathe, has succeeded to his father’s baronetcy.
He is some years younger than the now rather
wilted Lily, but as the pair don’t affect each
other’s society at all, he hasn’t much chance to
notice the disparity. A returned Australienne,
who saw the one-time beauty, says she has still a
lovely figure, and dresses smartly, but she is very
hard-faced, with a long upper lip. Her daughter
is a piquante-faced little thing—not a bit like
Albert Edward.
Curiously enough, and against all warnings
such as Shakspeare’s (I’m miles from a copy, but
it’s something about swaying level in your hus-
band’s heart when you are several years younger
than he), marriages where the husband is the wife’s
junior often turn out most happily. Mr. Burdett-
Coutts (who was Ashmead Bartlett when he
married his Baroness) was 40 years his bride’s
junior, yet he wept publicly and bitterly at her
bier. George Eliot and Mrs. Browning are often
quoted as proof of the wisdom 6f having your
old man younger than yourself. And every one
of us can call to mind instances of some woman
friend who proved the fond wife and careful
mother to the man she married. (N.B. —This is
the sort of thing one writes in Lent, when there’s
nothing going but the yachts on the harbor —and
one’s vitality, and the ash shampoo.)
Dr. Bobardt, the fleet surgeon who used to
brighten first nights at Her Majesty’s with his
massive presence, is returning to Sydne3 r , and
will go into private practice here.
Mr. Frank Coffee and daughter Holly are
passengers by the American liner, which, at the
moment of writing, is causing uneasiness by its
failure to keep to the time-table.
Judge Docker, who left by the Britannia on
Saturday, takes his first holiday since he mounted
the Bench, 26 years ago.
Madame Joseph Playoust, a leading member of
the French section of Sydney society, is departing ,
for a visit to the land of Frog. The lady is leav-
ing a nursery full of fine children as an earnest of
her intention to hurry back.
Prof. Carslaw and his Cruickshank ewe got
married so quietly up at Bowral that few knew the
date of the mathematical and sheep alliance. The
bride’s father and her first husband had consider-
able flocks, so she may well come under the head-
ing of sheep. The giddy young pair have gone
to Hobart by one of the apple boats.
An Australienne who has been liberalising her
education in London and Paris says that Sydney
doesn’t know how to do Her hair. Sydney
should decorate it with wings of birds, with
beetles, insects, vipers, with whole birds or made-
up ornaments of glittering, quivering effect.
Her dressing-table should be a menagerie, Her
jewel-case a zoo. Also, Sydney’s hair is not the
correct tint. It ought to be a shiny oakum hue.
Red is not quite the right word. This “correct
tint” is most trying, the traveller admits. It
ages the tinted Venus dreadfully. So there is
some consolation left for those whose hair remains
the color it was when Providence handed out the
fleece.
A mourner on a bike, who attended a funeral
bound from Sydney to Waverley Cemetery last
week, was eyed askance most of the road, and
finally shoved out of the mournful procession.
He was ahead of his time. The eye will get used
to the novelty by-and-bye, and the motor-hearse
with a specially melancholy toot and the bike
cortege will be matters of course.
Miss Rose Gore and Miss Mary Jones, who are
generally referred to as “society dressmakers” (the
latter has been abroad with Miss Eadith Walker),
are reported as going to London to set up a fashion-
altar there. Going from Here to There for the
purpose of making clothes for the Society Swirl
sounds like taking nuts to Brazil, but if you pre-
sent this point of view to a really travelled
Australienne she will sniff and retort: “There
aren’t many really good costumieres in
London. They can do with several from
Australia over there, for most of the dress-
ing is in shocking taste. The somebodies
are mostly very dowdy.” And the travelled
English woman always remarks the dressing
in Australia as being of a higher average
than in her own country. Two of the Throg-
morton family were the pioneers of this Aus-
tralian millinery-mission to London, and are
“Madame Scarlett.” Long ago a Maoriland
girl went there, and started as a Bond-street
milliner. After a while she got married, and
was presented at Court Hatters and frockers
going from south of the Line won’t need to make
demand on the fund for stranded Australians,
if such a fund is started.
The priest (Father Gibney) who is seen in the
last scene of the Kelly Gang Flickergraph at the
Palace, making a rescue from the burning building,
is now Archbishop of Perth. The lcinematograph
has discovered him, so to speak.
Mr. John Young, the Father of Bowls in
Australia, is seriously ill at his very much flowered
and foliaged home at Annandale, but as he is of
the wiry old stock, toughened by Northern
winters, he will probably be bowling again before
the end of this very disagreeable month.
An eighty-six-year-old Maoriland pioneer lady,
Mrs. Godley, died in London last month. Her
husband went to Greenstoneland as leader of the
Canterbury Association, under whose auspices
the province so named was founded.
A restaurant with a roof garden, 20 private
rooms, and a room exclusively for ladies is to be
built in Moore-street. The roof garden will fetch
us. Then shall we see parties of four trying to
look, in dress and pose, like the brave young
quartette in the Gallery-picture “ Sur les Toits.”
’Frisco Bulletin publishes a long list of
moneyed American women who have been mar-
ried to titled Europeans and have subsequently
separated from them, because the duke was a
failure, or the count’s complexion didn’t match
the lap-dog. The catalogue starts with Consuela
Vanderbilt, now legally separated from the Duke
of Marlborough, and goes on: “Anna Gould,
divorced from Count Boni Castellane; Anna
Robinson, actress, separated from the Earl of
Rosslyn ; Bessie Curtis, of Boston, divorced from
the Marquis of Talleyrand-Perigord (he after-
wards married Mrs. Stevens, of New York, who
also divorced him); Helen Morton, divorced from
Due. de Valencay; Florence Audenreid, of
Washington, separated from Count Divonne;
Lilian May, of Baltimore, separated from Sir
William Bagot; Eva Julia Mackay, divorced
from Prince Colonna; Isabel Bunce, of Ohio,
divorced from Baron Bronsart von Scliellendorf ;
Marie Fusz, of St. Louis, divorced from Count
Penaloza; May Yohe, divorced from Lord
Francis Hope. Altogether American women
have brought their foreign husbands 231,000,000
dollars in dowries.” How much their husbands
have cost them for divorce expenses has not been
calculated.
There’s an oil launch now on the Lachlan, I’m
told, for excursion tricks. Forbes folk crowd into
it in squadrons, and it does a little sprint of a few
miles on the face of the waters, and, back again,
and the passengers agree that there’s nothing like
travel for giving one a correct perspective of his
place in the cosmos. Speaking of travel and such-
like, a tall, thin, brown man from the West told
me once of an old lady at Pooncarie, on the
Darling, who repudiated with scorn the idea that
her life was bounded by a narrow horizon, and
said she used often to go to “ town.” He
was impressed till he learned that she meant
Menindie.
Wardrobe dealers—those worthy persons who
“ having left-off clothing of every description
respectfully invite inspection”—complain dread-
fully of the way charity has spoiled their
rtade. It is the same in England. Charitable
organisations (and their name is legion—also
mud) get the clothes that were formerly
sold directly by their owners, or given to
the gentleman’s gentleman and the lady’s lady,
who disposed of them for their own pockets’
sake. One charity organiser tells me that some
of the gowns sent to her would, if worn by one
of her poor women, ruin the reputation of the
wearer. Frocks of chiffon, lace, ribbon-work
decorations, frills, glace silk underskirts and
transparent corsages, if in decent repair, are sold
for the benefit of the charity. It is impossible to
donate an evening dress to the woman whose
clothes were burned when the four-roomed
wooden cottage went off pop, and expect her to
go out looking for work in the garment. But
most of the things come to the charity
in a state of such utter dilapidation that
they are of no use. Many of them have to be
burned. It is surprising to what ruins some ladies
will reduce their evening gowns. These one-time
costly rags and tatters are worn at theatres with
a lace scarf over the shoulders, or the calamitous
state of the frock is hidden under an evening coat.
The famous singer who lags superfluous on the
stage can, with her blurred voice, inflict heavy
damage on her backers. Witness :
Mr. Robert Grau, the famous impresario, has mysteri-
ously disappeared. His friends fear that he has either
met with foul play or become insane through brooding
over the impoverished condition into which he was
plunged as the result of the last tour of Mme. Patti.
Mrs. Long, mother of songstress Nora Long,
who is joining her successful youngster in London
presently, gets a send-off in the shape of a com-
plimentary concert on the 27th. Mrs. Long will
contribute a song written by herself, and set to
music by Mr. Cecil Compton, the organist of
St. Matthew’s.
Miss Edyth Latimer, the handsome Manly girl
now playing in South Africa as leading lady in
her husband’s company, has suffered an inter-
view, in which she is described, as of “Irish
nationality.” Are Australians in such bad repute
in S.A. that the lady feared to own up to being
one ?
Laurance Godfrey Smith, the keen-faced, curly-
headed young party who has returned from
several years’ study under Leschetizky, will give
a concert on March 6. He carries the hall-mark
of the Master of the Ivories in his style of playing
and in writing. L.’s letter makes affirmation as
to his “ distinguished musical talent.”
Mrs. C. R. Deane (she’s a sister of the warbler
who was Miss Josephine Deakin) is the latest
addition to the Sydney Smart Gowning Mission.
The decorative little widow has been in London
and Paris for eighteen months developing a natural
taste for making Dreams for Fair Women. And
she now intends to teach others how it’s done.
That bright young soprano. Miss Carrie
Lanceley, ought to get a capital send-off concert,
judging by the fine gathering that met at Paling’s
to discuss the matter. Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald pre-
sided, and two committees were formed. Mrs.
Mayman and Miss Alicia Nolan will head the
ladies’ com., and Mr. Southwell will steer the
executive com.
The difference between a penny and thrup-
pence, to be sure ! When one had to pay the
latter sum for a speak through the bureau ’phones
there was nary a wait. Now, since the penny-in-
the-slot became the right thing, people are
’phoning what they’ve got to say instead of
putting it in writing on a sheet of paper, tucking
that into an envelope, affixing a penny stamp and
dropping it into a box. There are four or five
bureau ’phones at the G.P.0., and the new,
reduced rate has already caused an increase of
speakers to the number of 450 a day.
From the Trig. Station, at Winton (Q.), comes
a guinea for the Child Study Association. It was
collected among a few men in the Survey camp.
“ Trig.” has, I believe, something to do with
survey work, although it looks like the name of a
dog. Anyhow, the triggers who sent the money
have a lien on Heaven, and are hereby thanked.
Five women were fined for shop-lifting at one
Sydney suburban police court on Wednesday, last
week. They stole blouses, collars, corsets, skirts
and other frills and furbelows, and their Christian
names were Victoria, May, Annie, May and Lily.
It takes a lot of frill to live up to the names of
Victoria, Lily and May—and sometimes the frill
has to be stolen. Sarah, Mary Jane and Susan
are plain calico or bagging names that require less
living up to, therefore they are less frequently
called out in the halls of Justice, except when
Sarah has struck Susan on suspicion of annexing
her “ boy ” Bill or Ginger.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
Lady Chelmsford will arrive in town for a fleeting
moment this week to arrange a few further details of the
coming ffite, but the household will remain secure at
Gabbinbar until the heat wave evaporates. At present,
life is one long, free Turkish bath with the towels left out.
Tidings of Queenslanders in London continue to sift
through. Pretty Claudine Hamilton and her mama
found the husband-elect awaiting them at the Liverpool
Pier, with the latest thing in Panhard motors, a £l5O-
- diamond ring, and a sealskin coat, just as a few
slight offerings before deciding on the wedding gifts.
Mrs. Gerald Hanbury is at the “Mayfair,” and, like all
Australians, bucks at being charged for a bath. Mrs, D.
T. Seymour and her little son are to be seen around daily,
and this dashing lady has already earned a name for her-
self among Bridge devotees.
Very real sorrow is expressed at the tidings of the death
of pretty Nina Clerk, only daughter of Geo. Temple CRrk,
which took place, through appendicitis, at Glen Innes,
whither she had gone on holiday. Miss Clerk, who was
engaged to Mr. Noel Drury (third son of the late E. R.
Drury), was one of the brightest and sunniest-natured
girls in Queensland. Mr. Clerk is himself an inmate Of a
private hospital at present.
The proposed meeting to arrange for the introduction
of over-sea domestic servants seems to be hanging fire,
and so far the doings of the sub-committee that was
appointed to make preliminary arrangements are shrouded
in gloom and wrapped in mystery. The Danish Mary
Ann and the anticipated Norse Biddy are as far off as ever.
Yours Affectionately,
AKKENEHI.
“C.N.”: The statuette which French
sculptor Fremiet presented to V ic. National
Gallery will excite considerably more public
interest than his heroic “ Joan of Arc/’ for which
the city paid him £lBOO. The statuette, a bronze,
shows a Jap, or a gorilla, or something to that
effect, holding a nude white woman on his left
shoulder, while he grasps a gibber, weighing half
a cwt., in the dirtiest left extant. His mouth is
open, and he is roaring “Banzai” at some persons
who desire to rescue the lady. The whole compo-
sition is hair-raising, flesh-creeping, and calculated
to send infants into hysterics. It is understood
to be symbolical of the relations of Japan and
Australia.
“It’s the las’ time I’ll enter a lydy’s bed-
room in a gentle, unhobtrusive sort o’ way,” said
Bill when he pulled up with his mates after a quar-
ter of a mile run. “If I had entered as a burglar
villain, she would have fainted for sure, if she wus
awake, an’ I’d ha’ got the joollery. But entering
as I did, she took me for her ’usband, fired a boot
at me, smashed the mirror by mistake, an’ then
yelled to make it seem it wor ’im behavin’ cruelly
again. There wus nothing for it but to run.”
THE VALAZE MASSAGE INSTITUTE.- The
establishment of the Valaze Massage Institute in our
midst brings us up to date with Europe, as far as the
treatment and cure of all facial blemishes and disfigure-
ments are concerned. It is rather wonderful to think
that here, in far-away Australia, we can find the latest
cures for such trying disfigurements as red noses,
birth marks, warts, double chins, abnormal hollows,
wrinkles, &c. The Institutes are established at
158 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 274 Collins-street,
Melbourne, where all the latest apparatus is installed,
while the treatment is in every way hygienic and anti-
septic, and the utmost care in this direction is exercised.
Here not only red noses, distended veins, superfluous
hairs, double chins, undue redness of the face/smallpox
marks, and almost every face disfigurement are eliminated
by one treatment or another, including the wonderful
suction and injection treatments, but the everyday wear
and tear, the roughened skin, wrinkles, blackheads, and
all the small blemishes are made to disappear, and a
fresh, clear complexion adds charm to the personality.
Mile. Rubinstein will be delighted if visitors and inquirers
will call at the Beauty Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or 274 Collins-street, Melbourne, at any
time, when she will be happy to give all information
in her power about the various treatments or
any of the Valaze preparations. Valaze is the safest,
pleasantest and most reliable skin food on the world’s
market. The effect of Valaze is certainly magical.
Freckles, tan, sallowness, sunburn and almost every skin
blemish disappear under its spell immediately. After
regular appliances of Valaze the skin becomes fair and
radiant. Three months’ trial of Valaze will give you a
new complexion. It will rejuvenate you, and will leave
the muddiest skin as soft and glowing as a child’s. Valaze
is not an unknown, unproven preparation, but it is a
guaranteed Skin Food, which has stood the test of years,
and is a preparation of the cleverest skin specialists of
Europe. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure
cures the most obstinate cases ; approved by medical
authorities. 2/6, posted 3/-. Valaze Herbal Soap,
beautifully cleansing and purifying, made from almonds
and rare herbs, 2/- cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair Killer,
for the home removal of superfluous hair ; won’t harm
the most delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe.
5/-, postage 3d. Valaze is sold by Chemists everywhere
at 3/6 and 6/- jar. If posted direct from me, add 6d. for
postage. MLLE. HELENA RUBINSTEIN, 158 Pitt-
street, or 274 Collins-street, Melbourne.


Ti?e (4 en\.
DO YOU SUFFER ANY DISCOMFORT
FROn THE HEAT?
PERHAPS YOUR DRESS SHIELDS
ARE AT FAULT ?
' Suppose you try a pair of ...
KLEINERT’S DOUBLE OEM SILK
COOL, LIGHT, ODORLESS.
The absence of all narcotics makes Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy the safest and best that
can be procurable.*
THE LONE HAND,
Founders' Subscriptions.
Of the first Sydney subscribers to The Lone
Hand, the following have been successful in
winning the “ Foundation ” prizes, allotted
as previously announced :
Sydney Hears, Chemist, 408 Oxford Street.
J. VV. Stevenson, 122 Pitt Street.
Miss McMaster, The Pines Private Hospital, Randwick.
Claude Leplastrier, 24 Bond Street.
Miss Eleanor Manning, “ Trugornini,” Wentworth
Street, Point Piper.
The first N.S.W. subscribers outside Sydney
and suburbs —determined in the same way—were
Gordon Bennett, Dun frog-.
Mrs. A. A. Lysagiit, Wollongong.
W.. Alcock, Oorrowong, via Delegate.
J. Macara, Yarras.
P. L. Veech, Quilbone, Quambone.
Ciias. D. Cherry, South Mine, Broken Hill.
These will receive The Lone Hand free for life,
and will in due time have certificates to that effect
posted to them.
“The Founders” for the other States cannot
yet be determined, as sufficient time has not
elapsed for all mails to arrive.
cm0\ia\/<U9A' , 3<
N3W0M
• JOTOdT- XD&&H33- WV
• WADz&ntA&i&mmx
™xiiL3r«03“aa
mRm
m
isa
Ssw-^
'SPtCtAi APPOl^^
to His Majesty King Edward Vll.
i
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
Tney are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTOBI’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
|so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton's Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000,000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents —
' Duncan Preston (St Co.
Lombard Chambers,
, IQ? Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, February 18, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
This Wednesday the curtain is to be rung up
on the Federal House of Babel. The blue and
white cards are out for the show, and, despite
the fact that no bun and milk follow the Gover-
nor-Generals blessing, there’s a clamor for the
admission msteboard It’s a barren season, and
the crowd *kes any sort of a show where there’s
a band and a viceroy.
Mrs. R. S. Whiting and her two chicks are off
before the cold season to study sunsets and
cherry-blossoms in the land of the Mikado. At
present the fish-named family is lodged at its
Macedon eyrie, giving week-end parties and in-
viting the fashionable element to come and roost
on its fence.
There are two globe-trotting millionaires at
large in this State. Both are mated. At a
swaggah hostelry these unfortunates, burdened
with their embarrassment of riches, are lodged at
present, and casual visitors, who always like to
see who’s a-nibbling there, suffer from eye-strain
in an endeavor to sort out the bloated plutocrats.
But there’s nothing to identify a millionaire by.
He bites his potato like any member of the
common herd, and drinks his tea in the plain old
way, by lifting it to his mouth, and then dis-
turbing the cup’s centre of gravity. So the
millionaire passes for any old thing on his globe-
trot.
A large family of Der.iliquin Lambs has been
drafted over here, and is now settled for the rest
of the season in the most stylish pens at Toorak’s
toniest mansion for paying guests. I believe
grass is good on the stock routes this season, and
the Lambs got over without any losses or serious
hardships.
Another ex-fashionable goes into the bonnet
business. Half of Toorak has pledged its im-
mortal soul to buy its best toque from the widow
in question.
Mr. Jardine returns next week to his legal
harness from a great old globe-trot. Probably,
too, the large, affable lawyer will resume his place
on the Catmittee of the Women’s Hospital, unless
his golden time of pleasure has altogether spoilt
his talent and taste for settling the squabbles of
the clawful sex.
One of our most ocean-gadding girls, who has a
mischievous spirit joined to good business capa-
city, has hied to Maoriland to start a branch of a
popular beauty factory in windy Wellington,
where good complexions get blown to pieces unless
preserved by (it is contended) certain rules and
treatment. On Friday a shoal of farewellers
gathered to wave a collective hanky at the beauty-
parlor nymph and cheer her out of sight.
They have been holding lace hops at the other
end of the globe. There were duchesse-point
Lancer sets, and every variety of hand-stitch
brand known to fanciers. It was a notion of
Lady Aberdeen to promote the lace cause in
Erin’s Isle. That sort of thing wouldn’t appeal
to the stylish elans hereabouts. A departure
suitable in many respects to the rival Toorakites
would be a Fancy-claw affairs at which such sets as
the Tortoiseshell, the Chinchilla, the Persian and
the common or kitchen tabby might be formed.
It’s on the cards that the Dame of Rupertswood
pays a flying visit to ’Roo-land this year with
daughter Phyllis, the story-writer. Probably it’s
for a final look at the beautiful Sunbury estate ere
it passes under the hammer.
A surgeon of this metropolis has an enormous
practice among the petticoated sex, principally,
one sharp Miss tells me, owing to the amount of
tenderness- he introduces into his treatment of
dislocated wrists and sprained ankles. The Miss
in question was being treated for a misplaced
funny-bone, I fancy, and she at first found the
surgeon’s solicitude a great boon. But when he
proposed to kiss the dimple on the girl’s elbow
she rebelled, and later on paid her account per
post, for fear Sawbones might again be demon-
strative. She learnt that he always did kiss the
patient’s funny-bone when no obstacle was placed
in the way, and that the pampered and petted
sex indulges him a good deal in the matter.
The vigneron Rowans treated their big circle
of friends to a lively hop last week, as an act of
grace after a daughter’s marriage. The gratitude
of parents whose chick has married advantage-
ously and to their liking (which is really the same
thing) is a shy and furtive emotion. Seldom does
it grow articulate or proclaim itself to a full
house. The Andrew Rowans provided the ex-
ception. Their hop at “Arranmore” was a
joyous affair—a litany of praise in polka form.
The Chief Judicial clan was expected, but did
not transpire.
They say a certain moneyed inarm keeps her
penniless but foolish spouse on tenter-hooks.
Every time he flirts with a random Miss, or a
visiting Mrs., his Apple Blossom makes a fresh
will. He knows all the quasi-secret preparations
—the drive into the city to the solicitor’s office,
the threatening brow, the ominous silence of the
dame. He reforms, apologises, and once more
the will gets altered in his favor.
A Werribee girl, who is M. A. by virtue of her
learning, got rid of a burdensome label, the otner
day—that of Hevingham-Root. Up till Wednes-
day of last week she had staggered under the
dead weight of her vast appellation, and in
marrying Dr. Laurie (second hope of the Prof.)
she must have felt that she had at last dropped
something heavy. Marriage is indeed a haven of
rest to some women—to Miss Jabcloots, for in-
stance, and Miss Mary Ann Corpse, and Miss
Jemima Slopp.
The R.C. knot-tying is suspended for the sack-
cloth and black ash (grey is sentimental) period.
In anticipation of the Lenten close season, couples
rushed headlong to the halter on Tuesday. It
was a fierce and virulent matrimonial scramble,
and it broke out in all the suburbs simultaneously
and sent the Fathers of the Church galloping
through the orange-blossom service. They
couldn’t leave any surplus couples on the mat, so
they went at express speed and tied every knot
hard and fast before Shrove Tuesday had glode
into Ash Wednesday.
A pair of elderly sentimentalists, who have both
worn the willow and been taking notice since
“something considerable,” are discussing a matri-
monial project. It’s a serious step—which really
leads on to an assortment of other steps in the
blending of two family broods. But the proposer
(one presumes the male sex is still the proposing
one) is so wealthy that the amassing of step-rela-
tives is nothing-—he could afford to take in all
Brigham Young’s descendants.
Last week the name of Miss Dorothy Frances
M‘Crae was blotted off the passenger list for the
Big Smoke and the bracketed label, Rev. and
Mrs. Perry, substituted. The charming Dorothy
has got herself engaged. The fatal act couldn’t
be averted any longer. There’s a lot of endearing
young charms about the graceful Hawthorn verse-
spinner. A curate, son of a bishop, is the happy
man. He is youthful, up-to-date. High Church,
and almost worthy in other respects of the peach
that has cotne in his way. He couldn’t be quite—
the peach is a prize one.
Sweet Nell comes along—on a recreative tour
this time. Tumor was the trouble and cause of
all the broken American engagements. Now it
has been treated, and the fair right shoulder of
Miss Stewart is only rivalled by one other thing
on earth, and that is her fair left shoulder. She
went aboard at Marseilles last week, and lands
here immediately after Musgrove’s consignment of
voices from Germany.
No one dreams, in regarding the teams of kiddies
in the pantomime, what the work of the wings
and the dressing-rooms means. Discipline has to
be maintained, quarrels prevented, giddiness
treated severely, and a perpetual watch kept over
the affectionate and sentimental girleens of the
young co. A disposition to sit and moon over the
drove of devils who dive into the stage trap-doors
has to be ruthlessly squashed. Miss Jeannie
Brenan is chief priestess of the wings, and she
prevents any serious love-sickness for devils, or
geese, or kangaroos by a rigorous discipline. Up
to this, no little waratah-girl-flame or baby-wattle-
sprig has suicided for love of a little boy-wallaby
One of the most expert she-fiddlers of the State,
Miss Lottie Schutt, has just floated back from
Europe, where she has been studying under the
eye and direction of masters more or less famous.
In the Big Smoke Miss Schutt fiddled with Hans
Wesseley, and later, having waited a whole year
for Professor Sevcik—the highest authority in the
land of the Kaiser —the aspiring Williamstown
duck (there are no chicks at our marine suburb)
travelled to Bohemia and toiled in the Professor’s
own melodious locality—Prague—for four precious
months. Each lesson cost two guineas, but the
Victorienne reckons she obtained full value for
every note. And now the fiddleress is back in
this Yarra capital. Under her chubby chin she
tucks her beloved fiddle, and saws out melody that
makes one’s heart feel glad. Hers is emotional,
broad-toned music—generous and good.
We’re smiling over here at the thought of the
moon-eyed tenor, Walter Kirby, lifting his melody
before the loftiest pair of royalties in the Empire.
Walter had just a little of Uriah Heep’s expression
of unworthiness when he sang. He bent his neck
at the angle of apology, and a polite forelock
drooped ’umbly upon his modest brow. The voice
was so much finer than Walter. It had vigor,
quality and positive charm. But Walter looked
sorry and sad, and seemed to ask you if he might
remain on your planet for the night. One wonders
whether his sensibilities have been blunted by the
vicissitudes and hardships of a few Big Smoke
seasons, so that he stood up to his inches before
royalty and tossed a valiant forelock as he burst
into song, or whether he languished as of yore
like a drooping lily.
“The New Clown” audience squashed into the
quartet of boxes on Saturday night, and over-
flowed the other less expensive parts of the Prin-
cess. Rupert Clarke had his pal, manager
Musgrove, and a golden-headed friend in his
pen. The vigneron Lukes, with a male trio that
might have been Matthew, Mark and John, were
perched in another. Mrs. Luke displayed a lot
of handsome shoulder to view. It was a big,
cheerful audience, kept on the grin by Hugh
Ward and co. till curtain-fall.
A flock of Nice People gathered on the Spencer-
street platform to weep “Au-revoir and be-
back-soon, Beaueaire” on Julius Knight’s bosom
last week. He of the heavenly calves was on his
way to Ballarat, and the regrets of the Tooraketty
quarter stood forth naked and unashamed. One
could scarcely hear the warning belch of the
engine at its start for the sighs that rent the late
noon atmosphere. The love for the commonplace
strutter passes all understanding.
The Palotta boom started at the hour of her jubi-
lant arrival. A pack of wolf-like adorers (mostly
the she-kind) rushed to devour her. I saw several
parties of feminines in a cafe casting green glances
at Grace on Saturday, and totting up enviously
the years that have rolled on since that star first
glimmered in these heavens. “How does she
keep her youth ? ” their jaundiced glances asked.
Grace would tell them in a minute. “By a glad
heart—which is health.” That’s the secret of her
perpetual bloom.
The mixed couple has found use for the silver
reaches of the Yarra from the willow-bend of
Studley Park to the wattle-banks of Alphington.
The boat shed is within a quarter of an hour’s
tram-ride of town, and the mixed couple flies
thither, and gets aboard, and leaves dust and
clamor behind it. On a recent golden Saturday,
an unbilled and wholly impromptu regatta set
the face of the river into a legion of dimples and
smiles. Boatloads of assorted sex oared their
way along—the boys straining at the blades, the
girls doing nothing save be ornamental, with
their gossamer-sails floating behind in the sun-
shine. Here , and there a long mauve hat
streamer seemed to be tracking the party, cloud-
fashion, to its evening lair. Sometimes a scarlet
gamp set its glow on a fair languid Gwendolen at
the steering perch. The boats bore the glaa
couples along in endless procession. Their rain-
bow contributions to the river picture almost
moved the idle loungers on the banks to cheers.
But almost as good as the oared treat is the
languor of the willow banks, where philosophers,
poets, and lonely souls sit and ponder beauti-
fully, and are supplied with a set of entrancing
river pictures on the cheap.
There has been a scandal with a rather curious
termination at one of the nicest of our suburban
paying-guest establishments. The wife is rather
frivolous ; the husband seems rather sleepy. The
attentions of the new boarder to the wife became
so pronounced that the proprietress of the estab-
lishment left him a note to say she required his
room. The boarder, of course, left. But next
week the husband and wife also left, and now the
same boarder passes the same husband the bread
at the dinner-table of another paying-guest estab-
lishment.
From “Rosna” (Adelaide):—
News comes from, the Fog that South Australian actor
Otto Hegg'ie has been engaged- fora 14 weeks’ tour of
Uncle Sam’s land with Ellen Terry and other celebrated
folk ; also that he will play leading parts. This State
chiefly remembers Heggie as the large mysterious
“ Messenger from Mars,” w hich part he played here some
time before his departure on the Bullward journey. The
company in which he will proceed to so astonish the
Yankee that he will have to leave off whittling is managed
by Ellen Terry’s daughter.
A number of enthusiastic folk have arisen and an-
nounced their intention of forming a Players’ Club in
Adelaide, a village that already possesses several drama-
tic clubs of the usual amateur standard. This affair is to
be managed by elocutor Percy Walsh e, who was at one
time assistant stage-manager for the Broughs. The new
club starts with a performance of “ Sowing the Wind,”
at the North Adelaide Institute, some time in March,
when the Frill of the City is just waking out of its
summer sleep.
Several globe-jaunters return to Adelaide by the
Mooltan this week, among them Harold Parsons, the
’cellist, who has been ’celling in Kaiser William’s country
for a year or two, and comes home to take up the post of
’eello'master at the Conservatorium. I confidently ex-
pect an epidemic of she-pupils on this large uncanny
instrument. Mr. Parsons w'as a handsome musician,
without a curl to hjs name, when he left South Aus-
tralia, but no doubt “Germany will have developed the
beautiful trailing locks beloved of the feminine heart.
The same boat brings the chief Conservatorium poten-
tate, Dr. Ennis, w ho rushed to Britain a little w'hile ago
to bring home his wife.
Professor Darnley Naylor, new classical professor at
Adelaide University, returned from poor little Britain by
the Bremen last week, and just ran into Melbourne for a
moment to shake a farewell paw' or two before taking up
his quarters in this city of great silent distances. The
learned one was formerly vice-master of Ormond College,
at Melbourne ’Varsity, and w'ears some of the alphabet
trailing after his name, as Brunhilda trailed behind the
wild horse in 613 a.d.
Feminine Adelaide, with its love of weddings (it will
walk miles to hear the Voice), has lately been consoling
itself for a dearth in this respect by tearing along to the
various Weddings at the Theatre Royal, and has crowded
that edifice so that it is bulged quite out of shape. The
Royal hasn’t seen such girly enthusiasm since the days of
Julius Tremendous. But this time the attraction is not
a star wi h calves at one end and a beautiful and haughty
marble brow at the other. It is the Weddings and the
frockiness of the heroine that draw the she-crowd in
such hordes.
Philanthropist Charles Goode, during his recent en-
circlement of the globe, visited the far-famed hog factories
in the great hog city of Chicago, and waxes almost as
eloquent as Mr. “ Jungle ” Sinclair about them. He says
that, dirty as many of the factories are, the chief dis-
grace is the fearful condition of the streets and tenements
in the meat-packing quarters. The streets are all unpaved
and unmade, although (or because !) the City is teeming
with millionaires. There are almost as many millionaires
as hogs, and it is often difficult (as well as useless) to tell
one from the other.
Editor Bonython leaves Adelaide for England during
the first week in April, and will be absent for eight or
nine months. Most of the time will be spent in his be-
loved Cornwall, where the ancestral estates of the
Bonythons are situated.
Yours Affectionately, Tryphena.
The idea of “squaring” the High Court
has been entertained at least once. Just before
the hearing of a Chinese appeal a sleek Celestial
called upon a lawyer and tendered a cheque for
£B5O. “Sir Samel Glippet, tlee hun’ en fifty;
Sir Toby Barton, two hun’ en fifty ; Sir Lichard
O’Con’, two hun’ en fifty,” he said, in explanation.
But their Honors never got the refusal of the
money.
Buying a Pig in a Poke.
THE proprietors of The Lone Hand are quite
aware that in inviting the Australian public
to send in, now, subscriptions to that publication,
they are asking them to “buy a pig in a poke,”
as the homely proverb puts it.
Of the character and merits of The Lone Hand
the public can know nothing, except what it
takes on trust. The date of publication has not
even been fixed, though it is now very near.
On the other hand, it’s “ just a slip of a pig ”
a twelve-months’ subscription is only 12s.—to buy
on trust, and it is offered by The Bulletin Co.,
which has never yet palmed off a poor beast on
the Australian public.
Still those who have sent in their subscriptions
in advance before publication make The Bul-
letin—which stands sponsor for The Lone
Hand —feel proud. They have come from all
parts of the Commonwealth, and from all classes
of society—from the Governor-General and the
Chief-Justice of the Commonwealth to the
shearer and the mechanic—from doctor, journalist,
and parson—and they represent a practical confi-
dence in the future of the new publication.
It is the intention of the proprietary to keep
these early subscribers in mind as The Lone
Hand progresses. As a beginning, among the
first subscribers will be allotted 50 “Founders’
Certificates,” entitling the holder to receive The
Lone Hand free for life. An effort will be made
to keep these Founders permanently linked to the
fortunes of the magazine until the days when its
early beginnings are matters of history.
The date of publication of The Lone Hand
will be announced shortly. The subscription is
12s. per annum post free.
THE LONE HAND
214 George-street.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagen, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stkipe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post th.ro uy It out
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
The quickest way to get rid of a cold is to
take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. For sale
everywhere, Is. 6d.*
PHOTOS
PROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 6/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, BpC. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
in ordering the household supplies, don’t
forget Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It never
fails in cases of croup.*
This Elastic Truss—
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
Elastic
Truss
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Mblbotrne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
INTERSTATE JEALOUSY.
Sydney, Monday.—The State Premier (Mr. Carruthers)
has received a letter from a well-known resident of Syd-
ney, now in London, in which the writer states that Vic-
toria is always to the fore, and N.S. Wales is not even
given an equal chance at the office of the Commonwealth.
He adds :—“ I saw the files of the Melbourne morning
papers, but not a Sydney morning paper was filed, or a
copy to he had. I asked myself, Is Victoria Australia ?
If not, why have N.S. Wales papers not the same pro-
minence as Victorian ? I think it is surely time N.S.
Wales woke up to her position in the Commonwealth.”—
Daily Paper.
The Man prom Sydney : “ Snubbed once morel
Now, I wonder why the dickens people never
respect me ? I’m alivays out of everything.”
When Queensland ex-Premier Philp opened
his arms to Premier Kidston’s late colleague,
Denham, he thought that a number of Inde-
gendent's would follow Digby in his retreat.
>ut no one has done so up to now, so Philp is only
one vote to the good, and is burdened with a
funereal butter-dealer, who will insist on having
a portfolio if ever Philp has portfolios to give
away. And Denham, by resigning because Kid-
ston wouldn’t coalesce with Philp, has clumsily
made it evident that Philp was quite ready to
coalesce with Kidston or with anybody so long as
he got his fork into the fleshpot.
The Victorian ex-Cohentingenters, some
dozen or so of whom meet annually to celebrate
their past misdeeds by a dinner, have struck a
medal bearing the inscription—“ South Africa,
1899—1902. For Empire.” But it’s wrong. The
Jews have no Empire. Perhaps the German
Empire is meant.
The Prussian Chamber of Agriculture is
pressing for the importation of Chinese coolies to
the German agricultural districts. High Protec-
tion has caused such a demand for labor in Ger-
many that there is danger of the crops being left
unharvested. Of course Chinese labor importa-
tion isn’t the remedy, but what is the remedy for
too much prosperity it is hard to say.
An unobtrusive advt. inviting applications
for 25 billets in the clerical department of N.S. W.
public service shows that another Joe Carruthers
reform has broken down. It was understood that,
by a process of transfer and re-arrangement, the
service was to struggle on for an indefinite period
without new appointments, despite the dropping-
out of the aged, drunk, dead, dissatisfied, and
infirm. But the civil servant’s salary rises auto-
matically to £l5O a year, and the policy of making
no new appointments brought about the dreadful
result that the office stamp-licker might advance
to £l5O a year, and still be licking stamps because
no junior stamp-licker had been appointed. So
the blessed reform sagged down in the middle
through its own weight.
Staggering statement made at a recent
meeting of the Vic. branch of the Immigration
League of Australia :
If there is no land in Victoria, the League, which
is Federal in its character, should indicate where land
is available in the other States.
“No land in Victoria.” And yet half-a-day
from Melbourne in a motor would take the
heaviest member of the League out on to the
beginning of the boundless western plains, and
he could follow them right away to the South
Australian border and travel the whole distance
over large estates. He could travel all day and
night, at top speed, and see nothing but land and
sheep. If he had a g«od telescope he might
occasionally see a man, although there are parts
of Ripon, Hampden and Grenville where the best
telescope would only show him more land and
extra sheep. All this land should be in the hands
of farmers ; and the counties named should have
ploughs sticking up all over them, and houses
everywhere, and children enough about to make
motoring dangerous. By the way, the Argus
humorously heads its account of this meeting
“ Land for the People.”
Premier and Captain Jack Evans of Tassy
has come back from his trip to Maoriland with
ideas. The trouble is. however, that he has also
come back with himself. He has brought back the
same old Jack. He wants to adopt a lot of Maori-
land’s progressive methods, and yetremain thesame
old Jack. He is in the position of the allegedly
“liberal” Launceston Examiner, which has a
fierce diatribe against the Tas. Upper House
every week, and points out that the Council is
always in the way of reform, and that it is quite
incurable ; and concludes by saying that it must
not be supposed for a moment that it would
abolish the Upper House, such a thing being con-
trary to precedent. That is Evans’s trouble. He
wants to do a whole lot of new and vigorous
things without shaking up any old precedent.
A few years ago, when the Labor party,
with misplaced generosity, allowed G. H. Reid to
run the N.S.W. Government, Pumpkin Smith
was Minister of Agriculture. In those days
Anti-Sosh was not in the
dictionary, and Pumpkin
Smith, grieved at the mess
Private Enterprise was
making of the dairy busi-
ness, decided on a Socialistic
move. The Government im-
ported a draft of prize cattle,
to be used in improving the
local herds, and Private En-
terprise howled with anger
at the idea. On the arrival
of the stock, Private Enter-
prise shouted with derision.
The beasts were too big, and
too small, and too square, and
too round; they were ill-
bi'ed; also they were the
wrong color, shape and age ;
likewise they were dead.
This lamentation of Jeremiah
the Farmer lasted until the
animals came out of quaran-
tine. Then there was a rush
for their services. Since that
date their progeny have
swept the board at the local
shows, and the recent great success of a grandson
of one of the imported animals at the Berry
show has started a cry for further Socialistic
interference in the Cow question.
Iceberg Irvine continues to make speeches
at smolce concerts on the questions of the day, and
generally to act as though he were the leader of
the party that is struggling to “establish a sound
and stable form of government.” And George
Reid makes never a speech, nor gives a sign of
taking the slightest interest in this country and
its grand, vast natural resources. Either his con-
tempt for Irvine is beyond words, or he has
practically thrown up the sponge.
Westralia gaily floats a kite for another
million in London, and a further £1,500,000 is
authorised. If Price and Kidston, who are both
careful financiers, can hold their positions in
S.A. and Queensland for a few years longer, it
seems likely that Westralia will beat them in the
race for the ownership of the Biggest Debt per
Inhabitant on Earth. Yet Westralia should be
the last place to require more loans. Even after
paying interest on its present debt, it has a
public revenue of over £l2 per head per annum.
There is nothing else to equal it on the surface
of the globe, and if Westralia can’t save the price
of a beer or a few public works out of that sum,
there is a bitter time ahead when the Golden
Mile fades.
THERE WILL BE NO SPEED LIMIT
DOWN THERE.
Preparations are being made for another British ex-
pedition to the Antarctic, which will leave Maoriland
in October next. A motor-car is to be taken for use on
the ice.
MRS. POLAR: “Run, George; run for your
hear life !”
Mort’s Dock, Sydney, reckons it can build
the torpedo boats that Australia wants, and use
the plant between times for constructing mercan-
tile vessels. There is no visible reason why it
shouldn’t build boats quite equal to the imported
article, and if the boats are made here, then they
won’t be lost off the Gape coming out, like the
Geelong Harbor Board’s two silly dredges.
Saul among the prophets ! Last week
Melbourne Argus, after praising Newport State
workshops to the extent of a column and a
turnover, hove the following off its withered
bosom :
The possibilities of Newport are illimitable. Some
day, when occasion and the East arises, it may have to
turn its attention to other things than railway work. “To
make small arms,” says the manager (Mr. T. Smith), “ we
want the machinery for rifling the barrels, and that we
would have to import. But as for turning out big guns,
as they did at Kimberley, why, we could start on one
to-morrow.”
Granny Argus forgets that last December
Foreign trade was the only wear, and such a
thing as an Australian small arms factory merely
a wild chimerical dream of those Socialists whom
it behoved all good men to repudiate with a
shudder.
“Podargus” makes some sweeping asser-
tions :
A full Treasury blinds the public of Victoria to the
weakness of its more than average stupid Government.
Tommy Bent is merely a boorish man with a thick bull
neck, an unrivalled knowledge of political tactics, and a
marked trait for rewarding his friends and never for-
getting a good turn. Bent is a physical leader, with
much moral courage and a very low order of intellect.
Put in power by the Reform party, he has not instituted
a single reform, and, on the contrary, has largely in-
creased the number of officials and the public salary list.
Rent’s J.’sP. are as plentiful in Victoria as snobs at a
Government House ball. Every Government department
in Victoria is in a state of chaos, the worst, perhaps,
being the Mines, presided over by Donald M’Leod, a
doddery septuagenarian who was for 40 years town clerk
of a decayed mining hamlet. Donald has an unparalleled
knowledge of the fiscal value of a village pound, or of the
municipal dog-tax, while about thistles, stinkweed, and
street lighting he knows all there is to be learnt. The
Mining Department is short of surveyors and scientific
officers, no geological surveys are proceeding, no fresh
plans are being issued, leases take
from six to twelve months to issue,
and the Minister’s decisions are
always parochial and never for the
good of mining. Why E. H. Cameron
is permitted to act as Minister of
Public Works surpasses all reason-
able understanding. Cameron is in
the eighties, and has been a quiet,
weak, dull member of the Assembly
for over 30 years. In that time, he
has never made one sensible speech
nor made one business-like sugges-
tion. His department is at sixes and
sevens, and the officials act on
their own responsibility. Conse-
quently mistakes, and not small
ones, are constantly being made.
A big one is the blunder over the
Waranga Basin, which will have to
be re-made. Still Cameron doses
and dodders, and can always be
found in his office on the last day
of the month. Another Minister of
the mesozoic order is old Tommy
Langdon, who has never been known
to do or say anything of value during
his long career as one of Duncan
Gillies’ Parliamentary “old hats.”
Langdon is now Chief Secretary,
and his chief charge, the police force, is in a maze
of a mess from which Tommy is powerless to ex-
tract it. Sachse is Minister of Education, and the
necessary educational reforms in the Victorian school
system are at a standstill awaiting Mr. Sachse’s retirement,
j. M. Davies, Minister of Justice, is an elderly solicitor who
has won a name for much wisdom by holding his tongue
and looking- as wise as Lord Brougham. The Titles Office is
in a deplorable condition, the police magistracy is filled
with cranks, the Law Department suffers from clogged
machinery, the Probate office is run by dotards, and the
cost of the Attorney-General’s and Solicitor-General’s
staffs expands yearly. J. E. Mackay has yet to win his
spurs as Minister of Lands, for he took over a depart-
ment which has become a bye-word for ineptitude,
thanks to lazy Jack Murray. George Swinburne is the
only really able man in the Bent Cabinet. Shrewd, in-
tellectual, and enterprising, he just saves it from being
known as the weakest and stupidest Ministry Victoria
has so far had to endure.
That’s something like a curse.
A whoop from Melbourne :
The annual picnic of Melbourne postal and telegraph
employees was perpetrated last Saturday for the exas-
peration of the public in general. The G.P.O. was mostly
closed at 10 a.m., the money-order office was graciously
permitted to remain open until 10.30 a.m. A number of
minor post-offices within the Melbourne radius were
closed altogether at 10 a.m., and the ordinary mid-day
mails to the suburbs were suspended. And all because
of an annual picnic which most of the holiday-making
postal and telegraph employees don’t attend. If
they all attended it, the “ function ” would be none the
less a scandalous wrong to the community that continues
to endure it without protest. No public purpose can be
served by taking hundreds of public servants off duty on
one particular Saturday, when the rest of the world is
working and expecting letters as us ;al. With the ex-
ception of half-a-dozen departmental officers who loom
large on this lamentable occasion, all the free-picnicked
employees, as well as the others who picnic privately or
don’t picnic at all, would rather be given a whole day off
in small detachments than be collectively relieved of less
than a day’s work. This trip down the Bay seems to have
originated in the Melbourne boom time, when every man
who could pose as a representative person and get him-
self reported in the newspapers, was bent on promoting
festive occasions for his little burst of oratory.
Japan preserves some semblance of the
promised Open Door for trade at its
newly-acquired Manchurian ports, but
there is a big pit inside the door,
and the foreigner falls therein!
By a combination of mys-
terious circumstances that
the stranger can never get
to the bottom of, it costs
about four times as much
to unload cargoes from a
white-owned ship as from
a Jap one. Then there is
the Jap tariff to argue with.
And finally the white man’s
goods pay from 50 to 100 per cent, higher rates
on the inland railway journey than Jap goods
do. When all these things are added up the
white man’s burden is more than he can bear,
and he loathes the eight of a Jap.
The Adelaide Tramway Trust has made a
good start. It has decided that Australasia can
supply quite as good an engineer as can be had
anywhere for the £1250 a year which it proposes
to pay, and it isn’t inviting applications outside
the Commonwealth and Maoriland.
Yellow Pup spent a pleasant evening on
February 12, chawing a bone in the privacy of its
kennel on the occasion of the annual banquet.
After reading apologies from Geo. Reid and Joe
Carruthers, Yellow Pup was unanimous in de-
ploring the introduction of sectarianism into
politics,' and decided that the recent losses
sustained by its champion, Geo. Reid, hap-
pened because Cardinal Moran ordered the
Catholics to vote on the other side. Having
decided that the R.C. element had dominated
the election, Yellow Pup barked with delight
when its president described the same election as
a glorious Protestant victory, because the number
of R.C.’s in the Australian Parliament had not
increased. About this time the Pup got dizzy
with pursuing its own tail, so it disentangled
itself and went home.
The wail of an “ Importer ” in a recent
Herald :
There is a perfect organisation at the Commonwealth
Customs-houses for recording and communicating the
peccadilloes of traders in the matter of their invoices at
each port. If an importer be caught in any of the multi-
tudinous nets spread for him by the Customs Act and
regulations, or if there is any suspicion as to the genuine-
ness of his documents, the information is immediately
entered in the “black book” and sent to the various
Customs-houses as an eternal record against him.
This is one of the best things we’ve read about
the Customs administration for a long while. But
that “perfect organisation ” must be a bit trying
to swindlers.
The sort of speech (to a crowd of country
land-owning cadgers) that makes The Bulletin
forgive Bent most of his sins—even his songs
It is “Give!” “Give!” all the time. I do not care
how much they circularise, I will not spend money to
improve private property.... These country shires get
a grant, lately increased from £50,000 to £76,000; they
get a special grant of £20,000, and they get a licensing
equivalent of £90,000. They have the unused roads fees—
now they want flood damages.... They pay a wretched
Is., or even 9d., municipal rate, while the suburbs stump
up 2s. and 2s. 6d.-—and they want more 1 They can take
my billet themselves if they like. The country owes a lot
of money yet.
THE GARRISON.
Where has there been such development in any
country? We have one-and-a-half persons to every
square "mile. —Prominent Politician.
In Victoria T. Bent steadily sets his large
feet in the back track. He has abolished Irvine’s
separate representation of public servants. He
has nearly abolished the deficit. He promises to
abolish the shameful act of economy which
reduced the maximum old age pension from 10s.
to Bs. per week. In all these things he has done
well. And now (alas !) he threatens to take the
back track to the borrowing days, and float a
million loan. Some people don’t know when they
have had enough back track.
S.M. Herald is joyfully celebrating the
German 'Kaiser’s ‘ ‘ victory, ” which consists in his
Government being directly supported by the third
strongest of 16 parties in a Legislature of 39/
members. But Deakin’s return in Australia with
a direct following of about one-third and a policy
following of two-thirds of the Parliament is a
disastrous defeat. Still, it is reckoned that the
Kaiser, by a fusion of parties, may have a majority
in support of one big item of his policy—that oi
building a huge fleet in red-hot haste and smash-
ing Britain on the sea before the peaceful, torpid
0.-B. Government manages to revolve on its slow
and friendly axis and realise the situation. And
that's what the Herald is cheering about !
A RHYME OP DEAD STATESMEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where have the godlike statesmen gone
Who lived of old
And made the mould
Of Egypt and of Babylon ?
Where is that Moses who so well
Did dare God’s frown
And bring Him down
To make the nation Israel ?
Where are the Judges, mighty men,
Who in the gate
Kept law and state,
And made each man a citizen ?
Where have the godlike statesmen gone?
Where’s Rameses
Of victories ?
And where is royal Solomon ?
Where is that sage who left behind
On slabs of clay
Laws that, to-day,
Are fresh and new for humankind ?
Whe e is Lycurgus, calm of brow,
And Draco, stern ?
Each in his urn,
Or grave, lies very lonely now.
Where is that Lord of Light and Ease
Who wreathed his town
With violet crown ?
Ah, where indeed, is Pericles?
Where is Augustus, proud and pale,
Who made of Rome
Earth’s marble dome
That now is but a Pontiff’s gaol ?
Where is that Dietrich Slash-and-Hew,
The Ostrogoth,
Who with new cloth
Would make the Roman purple new ?
Justinian has gone before
With all his laws,
Code, pandect, clause, —
And where is William Conqueror ?
Ye who would rush red-fanged for Fame,
And then thereby,
Through Fraud and Lie,
Gain pompous nonsense of a Name—
Not one, when all thy work’s complete,
Of all thy kith
Dare sleep thee with
One night beneath the winding sheet.
V. J. DALEY.


I
A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : 6
©*e «STUDENT'S”
MODEL.
Complete with. Bow,
Case, Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 : 11 : 6.
Write for handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Ronisch
Pianos.
Sole Agents—
Paling’s.
These
line Pianos
commend
themselves
to the art-
istic buyer.
New Models,
New Designs.
New Scales.
Price consis-
tent with. grade.
Catalogues Free.
***
Sole Agents—
Paling’s,
338 George St-,
Sydney.
54
Mandolins
and
Guitars,
at
PALING'S.
w
We stock
only the
Best
Makes.
Italian and American. The
prices of these popular
instruments are just right.
Free Catalogues.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
:'JI
v „ —Sr
S'
<CJh
ir-
m
ER
i>o
MA/y
PA WATtR)
5Zk plat aPmnov
jSLS*!
6 » r*g
0f *«?*•» • Ltim,
/LANDS
OORN6
'A S FA CO
a-*
The MODERN
HOSTESS* #
“I give you ‘KOOMAH
SPA'! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia’s natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
Government Notice.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACT.
Gobbagombalin*Marrar Estates
Land District of Wagga Wagga.
NEAR THE THRIVING TOWN AND BUSINESS CENTRE OF WAGGA WAGGA.
HE above Estates, recently purchased by the State Government, have been subdivided into
184 FARMS
which become Available for Application
under the provisions of the Closer Settlement Act of 1904, and the Amended Act of 1906, on
18th MARCH, 1907.
38 of these farms may be the subject of a preferent claim to apply by tenant farmers on the Estate,
The farms range in area from 59 acres to 964 g acres, and in value from £2 2s. to £l4 10s. per acre.
Full particulars and directions for applying, together with Lithographs and descriptions of the
various farms, may be obtained free of cost on application by post or otherwise to any Crown Land
Agent in New South Wales, or the Information Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney.
The Estates are situated midway between Sydney and Melbourne, and are in close proximity to
the important town of Wagga Wagga, and Railway "Stations of Harefield, Coolamon, Marrar, and
Bomen. No part of the land is beyond 15 miles from, and the greater part is within 10 miles of, a
Railway Station.
The climate is good and very healthy. The average rainfall is about 22 inches per annum.
A number of the farms have frontage to the Murrumbidgee River ; a large number are pro-
vided with supplies of water from tanks and wells, while others have excellent facilities for con-
servation of water. The land is all good, sound, grazing country, suitable for sheep or cattle, while
the bulk of it is eminently suitpd for wheat ; growing. The frontage lands offer special facilities
for dairy farming. The land is also suitable for orchards apd vineyards.
Terms: —5 per cent, deposit, balance (including principal and interest) in annual payments
of 5 per cent., spread over a period of 38 years.
Persons who lodge applications for any of the farms referred to herein will be allowed a re-
fund of half the rail-fare paid by them on their visit of inspection, and on any journeys they
may require to make to appear before the Land Board in connection with their application.
Successful applicants, their families, and such belongings, including live stock, as were in
their possession immediately prior to the making of the application for land, will be carried at
half rates, provided that, in the case of live stock, it be not more than sufficient for the land
acquired.
Persons desirous of obtaining concessions in respect of railway fares, may obtain a form from
any Crown Land Agent in the State, which must be given to the Railway Station-master when
obtaining a ticket, or if unable to obtain a form, must ask the Railway Station-master to take
their name and address, amount paid, and number of ticket.
5a116 ROBERT McDONALD, Acting Under Secretary for Lands.
THE AUSTRALIAN WIDOWS' FUND
REVERSIONARY BONUSES, 1596 = £60,179
Do. 1901 = £160,399
Do. 1900 = £210,462
The 1906 SURPLUS Is the LARGEST EVER DISTRIBUTED by the Society.
Business in force (including: Bonuses), £5,791,413 9s. 10d.
Pure Premium Valuation, 3} per cent.
The INCREASE in the SOCIETY’S SURPLUS is shown by the following comparisons
I. For every £lOOO of surplus distributed in 1896, £3157 was distributed in 1901, and £4112 is now
available for distribution (1906).
11. Results under whole life policies effected on lives aged 20 at assuring :
For every £lO of bonus allotted to such a policy in 1896,
£l7 7s. was allotted in 1901, and
£27 13s. 6d. is now allotted (1906).
ACTUAL CLAIMS by death for 1901-1906 amounted to only 64'1 per cent, of the ejipectancy.
1906 RESERVES have again been calculated on the VERY STRONG BASIS adopted in 1901.
JAMES GRAHAM, F.1.A., F.F.A., Actuary. JOHN DONALDSON, A.X.A., Secretary.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Butts tin size
Price, 21s.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR- CAR- SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class O. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Car Spirit.
Highest Grade
American . . .
PETROL
ALWAYS UNIFORM IN QUALITY.
In stock at the Kerosene Stores of the COLONIAL OIL
COMPANY.
At all the Leading- Centres of Australia and New Zealand.
Lance Skuthorp, the greatest horseman the
world has ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 150 animals, all
buckjumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Snips. Both these horses can he backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*
INDIGESTION.
“Digestion is the Process of the Assimila-
tion of Food, Whereby the Body is
Nourished.
Indigestion, or dyspepsia, invariably arises
from improperly prepared food, hasty eating,
over-indulgence, fatigue, and exhaustion during
the hot weather, breathing foul air, excessive
brain work, and more frequently from cares anu
worry, which exhaust the nervous force and
weaken the organs of digestion. Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills are not simply a purgative
which forces the food out of the body, depriving
the stomach of its nourishment and thus starving
the system ; they contain the essential properties
that are, temporarily lacking in the stomach
through weakness, and complete the digestion
and assimilation, and so restore the functions of
the digestive organs by obtaining the maximum
of nutriment from the food, which sustains the
body and assures good health.
“Twelve months ago, 5 ' writes Mrs. Benjamin
Spooner, Glen Innes, N.S.W., “I was induced
by a friend to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pub-
as I was suffering severely from indigestion and
bilious headaches. I had already tried various
remedies without any apparent results, so 1
followed my friend’s advice and bought two
bottles of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. They
gave me great relief. After a short course o'
these pills the headaches left me, and I lost an
traces'of the symptoms of indigestion.”
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a sure remedy for biliousness,
constipation, indigestion, headaches, sallow com-
plexion, liver and kidney troubles, piles, pimpb f -
boils, and for female ailments.*
RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO , WALLABY
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to :
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
As a rule, there is a suspicion in benefit matches
that both sides play with a view to scoring at the gate
in preference to the board, but in that tendered to
Gregory 7, both sides seem to have been doing their level
best. The spectators had the unusual exhibition of a
N.S.W. XI. being thoroughly crumpled up. In the
first innings, N.S.W. was dismissed for 256, the Rest
ringing frequent changes on the bowling. At one time
it looked as though N.S.W. would not reach the second
hundred, eight having fallen for 137. But Carter and
Garnsey got together, and, the former playing a great
innings, they lifted the score to 256 before Garnsey
was caught off Bowden. Of the 7 bowlers, the most suc-
cessful was Wright, who took four N.S.W. wickets for 81.
Bowden and Armstrong also took a wicket each at a cost
of 13 and 17 runs respectively,
However, the remark was, “Wait till N.S.W.
gets ’em at the sticks, and then see what a mess there
will be.” With two wickets down for eight, it certainly
did look that way. But Vernon Ransford came along,
and for 3} hours defied the bowling, striking 16 fours,
and making-136. Then one of Cotter’s cannon-balls came
along and smote him on the lips, causing him to knock
down his wicket. It was just a fluke that Ransford’s
face wasn’t smashed beyond repair. Saturday’s play
ended with The Rest having scored 356 for the loss of six
wickets. On Monday 7 the N.S. W. bowling was thoroughly
collared, and The Rest made 544 before the N.S.W.
bowlers could get them out.
•Back again on the timber patch, N.S.W. seemed
in a fairly hopeless position, and at the close of play on
Monday had lost five wickets for 92. It was not a case of
winning, but of avoiding defeat by an innings. On Tuesday
the sixth wicket fell for 102. Then E. L. Waddy came along,
and things brightened somewhat, and before the seventh
wicket fell the score had climbed to 204. After that
trouble came again. Macartney 7 had not recovered suffi-
ciently from his injuries to play, so N.S.W. was a bat
short, and couldn’t afford it. Another eight runs
were notched, and down went the eighth wicket.
Waldy’s innings of 129 was distinctly good. He
bested the bowling for 115 minutes, and recorded
14 fours. He was N.S. W.’s last hope, and before Bowden
bo vied him he and Carter lifted the score to 312. With
Waddy’s dismissal the innings ended. So the Rest of
Australia only required 25 to win, and had a whole
innings in which to get them, and the thing was over
bar miracles.
* * * *
Trumper having dropped out of the team for
Westralia, A. J. Hopkins takes his place, which is good
news for the Westralians. Whatever Trumper may have
been in the past, and may 7 be again, he is at the present
time not worth going across the street to see. He made
11 in the inter-State match, and again last week, in
N.S.W. versus the Rest of Australia, he made nine in
the first innings and three in the second. And this is
the gentleman who objected to accompany 7 the team to
Westralia because he considered it weak and unrepresen-
tative 1 Certainly it is a lot stronger since he kindly
eliminated himself, and made way for that s erling bats-
man Hopkins. In the light of his receno performances
on the field Trumper’s other performances are amusing,
and if he had only some glimmering of humor he would
go away into a corner and smile at himself.
* * * •*
What promised to be a noble cricketing record
came to a sudden end, the other Saturday. On a patch
of ground in South Melbourne, a junior batsman named
Castlehow in one over smote the six balls across the
fence for six each. Then he planted the first ball of the
next over in a passing St. Kilda train, and it didn’t come
back. That stopped the play.
* * * *
Fighting Billy M‘Elhone having returned
from his honeymoon, N.S.W. Cricket Association admin-
istered a well-deserved snub to the alleged Citizens’
Committee, which is trying to bluff the Associa-
tion into unconditionally lifting the disqualifications
from the disloyal cricketers. The committee’s letter was
received and ignored. The Association will do no more ;
any of the disqualified cricketers who wish to have the
embargo lifted will have to make personal application.
* * * *
Adelaide is having two keen controversies on
umpiring at cricket. In one case, mid-off appealed for
leg-before, and the umpire declared himself “insulted.”
The other was more important. A wide was called, but
the batsman jumped out at it, and the long-armed wicket-
keeper gathered it in and stumped him. The not-out
decision seems to be correct, as the batsman was clearly
not trying to run, and so could not be run out.
Clem Hill, in the Rest of Australia XI. to give
the side a rep. flavor, was the funny man on Saturday.
Clem is as round as a barrel, and out of form, and
naturally failed to time fast bowler Cotter in the early
part of his innings ; but he usually brought the bat down
with a resounding smack about a minute too late. The
turn was enjoyed—it was hilarious, and in thorough
keeping with the seriousness of the match. Clem Hill, it
is stated, intends to hang up the flannels for good at the
end of this cricket season.
The enervating effects of the summer have not
troubled the Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union, which
has secured an all-round reduction in tiie prices of two of
the grounds. The Sydney Cricket Ground Trustees have
hitherto demanded 20 per cent, of the takings. The
Union considered that the fact that it got nothing from
the army of members entitled it to a lower figure, and
resolutely refused to play on the ground at the price.
Now the Trustees have come to the conclusion that it is
better to meet the Union’s wishes, and have reduced the
price to 12 per cent. So during the coming season, which
starts on the last Saturday of April instead of the first in
May, as in previous years, the best match of the week will
be played at the Cricket Ground. This arrangement will
not interfere with the agreement arrived at with the
Sports Ground, which will also have a grade match every
Saturday, for which the Union guarantees a minimum
sum for five years on condition the Trust erects an up-
to-date and commodious grand stand. The Union has
also secured a reduction in the price of the University
Oval, in Camperdown district. Altogether, the financial
prospects of the Union are much more rosy than they
were last year.
• * * *
The N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union (the amateur body)
unearthed a couple of new champions at Sydney Sports’
Ground on Saturday afternoon. The Half-Mile Champion-
ship produced a brilliant sprint, in which Schultz and
Berry, of Queensland, were passed and beaten by W. S.
Knox and H. K. Maxwell, of N.S.W. Knox won by a
wheel in lmin. 34 4-ssec. The Ten Miles Championship
produced an enormous field, no less than 17 going
out after the trophy. Only two men tried to get a break
on the field, about half-way through the race, and when
they were collared the field settled down to do a crawl
till the last mile was entered upon. Then a struggle
commenced. At the bell, Watson and Schultz went
down with a clang. The field got past without falling
over them, and McLean went to the front, only to be cut
down by Shepherd. Berry came past both of them.
Then Gannon shot up beside him, and cut him down to
the edge of the track, and the Queensland crack, unable
to get through, hadn’t enough steam left to go round.
Next, Maxwell sprang from the bunch, and, taking a
desperate chance, swung betw'een Berry and Gannon as
they momentarily opened out. Gannon made a frantic
effort to head Maxwell, but the latter lifted his machine
over the line by about tw 7 o inches, the order being—
Maxwell, Gannon (both of N.S.W.), and Berry 7 and
Atherton (both of Queensland). It was fine racing 7 , and
if the amateurs can be relied upon to put up finishes like
those, the sooner they start track-racing 7 the better.
People will roll up to see that sort ot entertainment.
* * * *
The first two heats of the Horder-Mutton
cycle match duly transpired at Sydney Sports Ground on
Monday night last. In the first heat over the quarter-mile
Horder showed a large contempt for his rival, and the
result of his overweening confidence was that Mutton did
a sudden jump half a lap from home, and streaked away
at such a pace that Horder w as left half a length behind
at the finish. In the second heat, over half a mile,
Horder was very wide awake, and, although Mutton led
by 7 two lengths at half a lap to go, when he made his
jump he found Horder had anticipated him and jumped
first. After a strenuous sprint Horder w 7 on by half a
length. This made a deciding sprint over half a mile
necessary, and it will be run off next Monday night.
* * * *
The Motor-Cycle Race (ljmiles) for members of
the Pioneer Motor Club of N.S.W., w 7 as the exciting item
at the Cyclists’ Association meeting, at Sydney Sports
Ground, last Monday night. In the first heat four
started, and Powell, on a 4h.p. motor, won by 30yds.
from the 390yds. mark. The second heat was delirious.
Doherty w 7 as on the 80yds. mark, and drove his machine
recklessly 7. Witbam, the scratch man, soared up along-
side, and Doherty drove him up the hank. If
Witham got ahead it was all up. The other three
were not in it. Round and round the two leaders
flew, Witham trying desperately to get round
ahead of Doherty, and the other driving him up the
bank on every occasion. It was great generalship,
but whether it was fair writer doesn’t know, not having
seen the rules they raced under. After a desperate con-
test over three laps Doherty 7 showed he had still an ounce
or so of reserve power left, for as Witham was just pre-
paring to cut down in front of him, Doherty’s machine,
with a bound, cleared the line half a length to the good.
It was a display of reckless speed and cool, perfect
handling of the machines. The mile and a half w 7 as
covered in 2min. 4 l-ssec. In the final F. Daniels, with
440vds. handicap, was never overtaken, and Witham had
his revenge, beating Doherty by 7 quite a distance for
second place.
* * * *
The Prospect Cycling Carnival, to be held over
the good, bad, and indifferent roads around Sale, in
Gippsland (Vic.), from the 15th to the 28th of this month,
is a big affair, and looms up alongside the Warrnnmbool
to Melbourne road race in importance. There are seven
road races and a number of track events, and the whole
has been organised with a viexv to bringing the district
before the public eye and advertising it as a tourist resort.
The promoter, J. McLachlan, who is in business in Sale,
will distribute about £5OO in cash prizes, and these will
be competed for by about 200 cyclists from all the Aus-
tralian States. Tw 7 o of the road races—from Saie to
Bairnsdale, and from Traralgon to Sale, 44 and 52 miles
respectively—carry first prizes of £lOO each. Tents are
to be erected to accommodate the expected rush of visi-
tors, and the meeting is to wear—as far as possible—the
aspect of a huge picnic. The ided of promoting big
sporting events to popularise a tow 7 n is very much in
vogue in U.S.A. ;an example w 7 as the £6OOO purse which
the town of Rhyolite offered to put up for a
fight between Jeffries and the next best man, Squires
preferred. The real estate owners and the mining
magnates were the people who offered to elevate the
money, and they hoped to get it all back, just as does any
other man who spends a lot of money on advertisement.
Of course, anything is possible in the States, but this sort
of thing is a new departure in Australia.
In motoring circles they are talking about a car
Reliability Test from Brisbane to Adelaide, or vice versa.
It is argued that to do a thousand miles careering round
practically the same road is not much of a test, whereas a
straight run round practically 7 the whole of inhabiled
Eastern Australia would throw some light on what motor
cars could really do in war time. The distance is,
approximately 7, 1850 miles, and includes some of the best
and some of the very worst of Australian roads. The
absolutely 7 w 7 orst patch is a stretch of pathless sand and
tussock betw'een Kingston and Meningie in South Aus-
tralia, but as it has already 7 been traversed, and by
a woman, it is not impossible. Mrs. Thompson, of Ade-
laide, crossed it some years ago in a single cylindered
Wolseley 7 car. Between Sydney 7 and Brisbane the moun-
tain climbing capabilities of the cars would be tested to
the uttermost. This sort of thing is expensive, and it
has been suggested that good larg'e money 7 prizes should
be given. But the trouble is that it is not the people
whose cars got through who would most w 7 ant the
money, but those who had to abandon hundreds of
pounds’ worth of valuable automobiles down precipices
and in muddy gullies. And they vvould get nothing.
* * * «
The trouble about previous motor reliability
tests has been that no points were allowed for the ear
that arrived in the best working order. The wounded
mobile that just managed to crawl in on its last legs, so
to speak, scored equally with the one that roared in at
top speed without a wheeze in its breathing department.
In the next reliability race points ought to be deducted
for having the engine in a damaged state, or gasping out
its last strokes.
* * * *
The Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron’s ocean
race for the Gascoigne Cup attracted more than usual
interest on Saturday. Rawhiti, which had won La
Carabine Cup in Melbourne, w 7 as back and pitted against
that new boat, Awanui, which made such a startling run
on its maiden trip. Brockhoff's boat was called upon to
give the newcomer Bmin. 9sec. handicap, but Awanui
romped down the harbor at -such a rate that it had
gained nearly three minutes on the handicap at the ocean
mark. On the return journey Rawhiti walked through
the water at a splendid pace, overhauling boat after boat,
and leaving them standing still, but Awanui and Heather
flew on before, and although Rawhiti gained steadily 7 at the
winning line, Awanui, which had hoisted no extras, was
still 6min. 48sec. to the good. It is doubtful if Raw'hiti
w 7 ould have secured second place had not the club
steamer, Bobbie Burns, who was probablyrin his usual state,
interfered with Norman Murray’s chance for second by
steaming along in Heather’s wake and depriving the boat
of her wind. It w’as not till off Bradley’s that Rawhiti
overtook Murray 7 ’s yacht, and at the finish secured No. 2
position by the narrow margin of 16sec.
* ■* * *
There’s not a yacht in Sydney harbor half so
buoyant as the Gascoigne Cup. It has been floating
round ever since 1887, and, by the look of things, will go
on floating round when the present generation of yachts
and yachtsmen are gone and dead. It has to be won
three times in succession to be acquired outright, and so
far only two men have managed to get in even the second
leg. Messrs. Dempster and Bremner each annexed it
two y 7 ears running, only to drop as far out as ever at the
third time of trying. It is like the Maoriland lease in
perpetuity 7, guaranteed to go on for 999 years without a
break.
* w * *
The 100yds. ladies’ swimming championship of
Victoria result d in a great struggle against wind and
water at the Brighton baths on Saturday afternoon.
After a cold, unnecess ry wait the event got a move on.
From an even start Dolly 7 Cooper was the first to show
out ahead of Julie Smith, Hilda Bradley and co., and the
leader stayed in front till the 50yds. turn. There
the field got on equal terms to battle home
against a heavy cross-sea. It U'as anybody’s race up till
syds. from the tape, where Hilda shot out and won from
Doily, with Julie and Connie a dead heat for third place.
A sheet of paper could have covered the four if the paper
were large enough. Miss Bradley did the 100yds. in
lmin. 34sec.
*■■#■!**
Melbourne’s diver and swimmer, Alec. ,Lamb,
last w 7 eek swam seven miles from Hawthorn Bridge to
Princes Bridge in 3hr. smin., starting with a high dive
(68ft.) from Hawthorn Bridge, and plunging down from
every bridge en route, bar one where no firm foothold
could be got—eight bridges in all, of an average height
of 51ft. He felt no ill effects, except in the last mile,
when exhaustion and the extra-cool semi-salt water
began to tell. He ripped his costume when he struck the
water at the first, and highest, plunge ; but that was the
worst that happened.
The Melbourne speedway, a strip of land sliced
from Albert Park, returns to its old condition as part of
the people’s park, the club, after spending about £lOOO,
having discovered that, beyond a few Canadian enthu-
siasts, no one took any interest in the speeding of fast
trotters.
* * * *
As a sample of the stuff that confiding punters
are fed on, take this from Melb. Sporting and Dramatic
News :—“ ’Tis scarcely 7 likely that Istria was specially
wound up for this engagement, and, as she had not
carried silk for nearly a year, it stands to reason that
she was a little short of condition.” Which is merely a
variation of the bad old doctrine : “ A horse needs one or
two gallops in public to complete its preparation for a
big race.” As though the ptesetice of a few thousand
people on the course made an.v difference in the
physical effect of a racing gallop! Revenue had
not “carried silk” for two years befoie he reap-
peared in public and won the Melbourne Cup, Play-
away 7 didn’t “ carry silk ” for six months before her vic-
tory in the Newmarket. Yet a turf scribe has the gall to
argue that Istria must have been short of condition w'hen
Decollete beat her the other Saturday 7. Both mares are
wanted for the forthcoming Newmarket ; therefore the
winner probably 7 was not more “w'ound up” than the
defeated favorite. Moreover, the winner had not raced
in public for some months. The performance was the
best of evidence that Decollete in the meantime has
made more improvement than Istria,Who beat her on
two or three occasions last autumn.
* * * *
Last Saturday’s racing at Caulfield threw little
light on the New'market Handicap, the field for the Oak-
leigh Plate being rather weak. Beresina managed to
win, but itw 7 as not a brilliant performance, and on that
“form” the other light-weight mare (Red Clover)should
beat the penalised Beresina at Flemington over straight
six furlongs. The second Saturday of the Caulfield meet-
ing should have more instructive results than anything
seen last week.
* * * *
If Ellis were a stayer (which he probably is not)
the colt’s defeat of May 7 King and Antonious for the St.
George’s Stakes would give him a first-rate chance in the
Australian Cup. A better test of stamina was applied to
Mira and Realm when they fought out the finish of the
Bond Cup (11 furlongs). Allowing that one oi two of the
badly beaten ones were not showing any spur marks
after the race, it was, nevertheless, clear that Mira did
remarkably well in doing better than Realm. The little
mare is by Malvolio, and, like some other members of the
family, she is only occasionally fit. Just now must be
one of the occasions.
* * *
Since the Pastime Club began to grow so
luxuriantly in the Sydney suburbs, it has become
advisable to cultivate a peaceful expression and a charm-
ing manner. Brusqueness or a tendency to talk stoush
is liable to bring' trouble from the most unexpected
quarters. The burly man who relies on his weight
and war like appearance is having a bad time. At
Bondi, last week, 15-stone of aggressive smoker, who
refused to shut down his volcano when requested by an
undersized conductor, was violently thrown out of the
car, and laid out with two on the point and a stomach
rip. In Oxford-street, recently 7, a policeman who was
being badly mauled by a couple of toughs, was rescued
h.Y (ye gods!) a tailor. He was small, hut he hewed a
way through those two toughs like a needle through
shoddy, and cutting himself loose from his base, skirled
round in a manner that suggested a kinematograph
show. In William-street a barber attacked a powerful-
looking individual, whom he accused of ruining his sister,
and floored him as fast as he got up. He also floored a
tram conductor and driver who attempted to mitigate
, the butchery 7, and finally retired in good order in the
face of overwhelming numbers, leaving the alleged
seducer with a broken nose, a much-wrecked face, and a
ruined suit. But to give him his due, the Pastime Club
product does not appear to be a brawler, and in every
case w 7 here he has come before the public he seems to
have had right and decency on his side.
* * * *
The champion bantam, Ted Green, met the
featherweight, Thomas Hanley, at Sydney Gaiety Hall
on Saturday night last, and between them they put up
eight beautiful rounds. In the language of the sport, it
was very willing. Then Hanley began to weary ; but in
the tenth round he brightened up, and made a whirling
effort to finish the conflict in short order. His frantic
efforts w 7 ere met with steady, hard hitting, and w 7 hen the
long r lly that had constituted the round w 7 as over the
featherweight was a very 7 exhausted midget. Green, too,
showed signs of wear and tear about the boiler section,
but had still enough steam left to smite Hanley consider-
ably. The feather saved himself as much as possible for
a final effort, which he made in the 14th round. But it
was more disastrous than his previous rally, and after
being laid out three times in rapid succession,"his seconds
raised the towel of defeat above the horizon.
The meeting: between Cripps, of Sydney and
Ed. Williams, of Victoria, for the middle-weight cham
pionship and a percentage of the gate, at Melbourne
Cyclorama Hall on Monday night, was marked by ex
treme caution on both sides in the beginning. As the
scrap wore on the men increased the vigor of their
attack, and from the 16th to the finish the
was very heavy. Cripps confined his attack to the body
dealing sledgehammer blows on ribs and diaphragm
while Williams smote sullenly away at the top end. in
the 17th round a riot was nearly provoked by Williams
back-heeling the Waler, but as Cripps did not appeal
referee Basto took no notice. As they grew excited
Williams began to hit wild, while Cripps kept his head
very well, and hit hard and often where it, would take
the most etfect. Although his left cheek was laid open
and his body showed signs of having received some bat-
tering, Williams kept going, and looked as though able
to last another 20 rounds, but when the limit was
reached there was no question as to the justice of Paddy
Basto’s decision. P.B. gave Cripps the fight on points. ‘
* * * ■*
Bob Whitelaw, of New South Wales, versus
Jock M‘lvor, of the Bent State, at Melbourne Cyclorama
on Monday (11th), was an ill-advised arrangement, and
lasted 2J rounds, when M‘lvor received the culminatiii"
punch, and was on the floor for lOsec., shaking his head
and apparently wondering if a brick wall had fallen on
him. Lately Victorian lightweights have been pitted
against several bulky Sydne.v-siders like Whitelaw and
Monty Andrews, and it is time the Olympic Club ds-
covered the vanity of such fixtures. Whitelaw is aboxer
to put up against welters and middles of the second or
third degree, not against lightweights of the medium
order like MTvor, who could not get within the range of
the big Sydney-sider’s machine-like left. The hit that
finished Mac. was a historical smite. , The large crowd
departed, as on the previous Monday, having sein
nothing worth mentioning for its money. This is the result
of injudicious matching, and the multitude, by takingiis
disappointments peacefully and coming again, demon-
strates a fervid interest in the game, which deserves more
consideration.
* * V *
Bill Squires had an experience with a would-be
pug named Gamble, while showing recently at Ballarat.
Gamble stands 6ft. 3in. high, and with outstretched arms
spans the phenomenal distance of 6ft. 9in. But he has
a soft spot in his head, and this caused him to believe
that he could knock out the champion. Of course
Squires was not desirous of risking a fluke that might
make a standing joke against him on both sides of the
Pacific, and he kept, the big yokel at a safe distance.
Gamble, who had been jumping around like a fighting
’roo, at last rushed on to Bill’s brawny fist, and fell
heavily, on the stage. It was half-an-hour before Squires
was sure of escaping a charge of fool-slaughter.
■* * * *
Willie Squires was given a complimentary
slugging social at the Cyclorama on Wednesday night el
last week, to enable Melbourne to express approxal of
the departing champion, and present him with a large
leather hag embossed with brass in which to carry borne
his American winnings. Orators hoped the bag would
not be big enough ; so did William. In his farewell
speech he was" a deeply-affected spectacle. Bill,
having removed his cap from his impressive head, said:
“Gen’l’men, I never say much. It’s not my way; but
I’m always out for keeps.” Thus, proud of his way of
not saying much, Bill lapsed into silence, and 4000 cit-
izens concluded 1 heir volley 7 of applause by roaring, “For
he’s a jolly good fellow.” Here was a Bill to be adored-
a typical boy of the bill-dog breed !
■* * * *
The navigation of the air begins to take form.
Roosevelt has purchased from the Wright Brothers their
aeroplane contrivance, with which they 7 are said to have
flown safely for 30 miles before something went wrong
and brought the contraption to the earth with an awful
smash, the navigators escaping by means of parachutes.
The bucolics Who attempted to examine the thing were
kept at a respectable distance with revolvers till the
brothers removed the parts that embodied the secret,
and drove them aw-ay in a cart. So far, all that is known
of the Wright air-vehicle is that it is cigar-shaped,with
huge aeroplanes protruding from the sides, and looks
like a magnified cockroach blown up by an explosion on
thekitchen hearth. The French military 7 authorities have
got a dirigible balloon, which they have called the
“ Patrie,” and which, with a crew 7 of three military men
(in gorgeous uniforms and gold braid) and two mechanics,
manoeuvred over Paris several days for the space of 50min,
per day 7. All sorts of capers and evolutions were described
to show that the thing w 7 as absolutely under control, and
finally it stopped w'hile an officer in a blue coat and red
pants lowered a rope with an official report to the com-
mander of the forces in Paris, and hauled up permission
to take the Pegasus back to the stable. The question is
how much lyddite can the thing carry.
* * * *
“ The Croaker ” : There’s trouble ahead of tie
promoters who reckon on big gate-receipts and water-
bank returns at the Durnan-Towns match. At different
places the Government road leads to the river, and any
effort to close this right-of-way will he vigorously com-
batted. Despite the booming in the Sydney daily pres 7 ,
the fixture isn’t likely 7 to be such a money-bag after all.
The sale of the right for “ publicans’ booths” was a dril
affair ; and, when Bung falls flat, it isn’t an encouraging
omen.


Missing Friends.
VASSAU, GEORGE SIMPSON, or, if deceased, his
-*■’ representatives, should apply at once to Blake and
Riggall, solicitors, 120 WilKam-street, Melbourne, or
money belonging; to him will be divided by High Court
n England amongst next of kin.
600 SONGS
2/6
WORDS and MUSIC
FOH
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
which for various reasons are denied the average
music and song lover. It may be that your local music-
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicseller's
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of
one book. In it are to be found songs old and
new to suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous —without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimehtal, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &c.,
including such world-famous favorites as “Annie
Laurie,” “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”
“Robin Adair,” “ Killarney.” “ Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “ Men of Harlech,” “ Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“My Bible Leads to Glory,” “ Bonnie Earl of Murray,”
“Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won't be
a Nun,” “ Highland Mary,” “ Kitty of Coleraine,” “ Prayer
During Battle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,
such as “ Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. lOd.) ; if P.N.
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchange. Order at once, and, when writing, mention
The Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere.
Address—
The Publishing Coy.,
460 b George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
A Liquor Trade’s Defence Union has been
formed in N.S.W. It includes “ the Master
Carriers’ Association.” Do these represent the
gentlemen who can carry their liquor well?
2000 MILES
without PUNCTURE TROUBLE.
“ Miraculum Corporation, Melbourne,
“January, 17, 1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —About six months ago I had the
tubes of my bicycle charged with Miraculum, with
very gratifying results. lam a country traveller,
and my average mileage for six months is, roughly,
2000 miles on all sorts and conditions of road. I
have picked up thorns, nails and tacks, and, on
removing them, found the Miraculum had sealed
the puncture effectively, as I could not detect the
slightest sound of an escape of air, the tyre remain-
ing quite firm. My experience proves that Miracu-
lum will do all that is claimed for it if properly
handled, and were the cost of Charging 10s. per
wheel instead of 4s. for two wheels, I would
willingly pay it, as I have no doubt I have saved
the cost over and over again. Yours, &c. (Sig ned)
JOHN OWENS.”
If your dealer prefers charging you 6d. apiece
for patches to selling you MiraSulum and giving
you an insurance for months against punctures,
call or write to us direct.
MIRACULUM DEPOTS:
MELBOURNE: 266 LATROBE STREET.
SYDNEY: VICKERY’S CHAMBERS, 82 PITT STREET.
BICYCLES, 45.; MOTOR CARS, from 30s.
Bar- GET OUR BOOKLET.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)—UMIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George St., Sydney.
YOU CAN LEARN
FRENCH, GERMAN or SPANISH
in your own home vsth the help of
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
I In learning to speak a foreign language, the two essential requirements are repetition by the
teacher and imitation by the student of the sounds and inflections peculiar to the language.
By no other system of private class-room or correspondence instruction are these requirements
so adequately met as by the I. 0. S. Language system with the Edison Repeating Phonograph.
Write now for our booklet, entitled, “ Languages,” which gives all details.
The National Phonograph Co., of Australia, Ltd.,
340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Barney Allen
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
THE GOLDEN KING.
Address —
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms ,
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
# guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
/ do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me.
Ban Hers
Victoria and Royal Banks
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “The
King Of Sport " newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: 44 King of Sport,” Collins St*, Melbourne*
KUGELMANN’S
&
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
■•At OA
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
THIS RAZOR ISA
This is the Razor
%
PRICE 10/6, Post Free
anywhere.
That shaves you well.
That never scrapes or drags.
That requires little stropping.
-That gives you a perfect, clean and com-
fortable shave 365 days in the year.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d.
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Sing-le Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St v Sydney.
There is reason to suppose that, despite
the vigilance of the Customs officials, the yellow
population of Australia is frequently added to by
smuggling on the part of regular traders. The
first time that an E. and A. boat was searched at
Cairns, a few weeks ago, two Chows were dis-
covered in a small locker in the stern of the ship.
A cabin boy took the blame, after investigation,
and explained that to land them meant 300dols.
for him. The only punishment he will get, it was
stated, was the sack when the boat returns to Hong-
kong ! There seems to be a screw loose if a cabin
boy can have two stowaways on hand without a
responsible officer knowing something about the
matter. Or, perhaps, there was really no screw
loose at all. Three hundred dollars for the dis-
posal of two men at an Australian port is a
tempting offer.
Although two regular lines of steamers
belonging to Australian owners run to Thursday
Island, the military people recently despatched
14 soldiers for the local toy garrison by a vessel
flying, of all flags in the world, the Japanese
ensign, and named Something-Maru. The irony
of it!
Bishop Clarke, of Melbourne, says the in-
feriority of the Australian aborigines was due to
the fact that they never “got religion.” Dr.
Clarke is in error. They did get religion. In
fact, they died of it. An utterly foreign religion
forced upon a savage race is almost invariably
fatal. Our religion and our trousers killed the
Australian aborigines. The trousers were part of
the religion—its outward and visible expression,
so to speak. The blackfellow put his wild, free
legs into the flapping entanglements of a split
creed and faded away.
-I»unuc.i Anim
NORTHERN
TERRITORY
P «T H C
a*-
CHARTERS TOWER?
Queensland'
ROCKHAMPTON^
BRISBANE ,
NEy t SOUTH Wal
AUGUSTA 1 "ML
SYDNEY ,
\tOWHSVIU4
\ <o > r^ v °c> jS '
$4 if *>.£U °fa **'‘*o". U
V -V. ' ,Ol * IP 0 " * ve^
'\ '° u vV^ u T»
■ V «\a' <U c app° v 0'‘ < ' o Vp* ,\o << yj \e» 5V .' t i\' e<
k °° e „Vv \» st Ve < erf V -Ale*-
, A 0n» l ,v<. - i\N \V C , IP® ilO ». .p'O" _»
V 4 „ 4 \v V»< 4 cO’ 1 ? «i\e» ”■ >V 4 u »« 4 V **,
l tl( o'rt a tid ATO ‘ •£(, O' , et i *° scTP® \»» '• V\°P fc
A ' cv ot rtt' c ’ vig' f * 0 \ c °" a 1
■
so 'V' Ve 4aV« 4 T»oV ,V ’**>’
t.oO 1 V \ e tt 0 ° \' o<o m*‘ U
Dui\ tup Tyres
the Tyres that are ALWAYS SELECTED when there’s URGENT DEMAND for
RELIABILITY and HARD WEAR. Birtles’ experience is the usual DUNLOP
one “ Every satisfaction from a satisfactory Tyre.” These Durable
Tyres are now used in Australasia to the extent of 240,000 Tyres a year,
which conveys a fair idea of the Popularity and Success of the
Australian-made Tyre.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO., 108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
And at BYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRIBBANE and CHRISTCHURCH. N,Z.
. Richardson’s tr
M-Kays Routes
Around Australia.
. Birtle’s
Proposed Route
Across Australia.


A. SAUNDERS.
Act. Gold Scarf Pin,
set Pearl and Ruby
or Sapphire, 10s;
15ct. Gold, 15s.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
Patrons residing at a distance will find
It both satisfactory and convenient to
purchase through our Mail Order Depart-
ment, where all orders receive prompt at-
tention. All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud Box, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced Design, 4s 6d;
, Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Kangaroo Charm,
5s 6d.
Emu Design, 5s 6d.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
SOLID
SILVER,
25s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Watches, full jewelled, 255, 30s,
355, 40s, 50s, 60s. Solid Gold,
OUR NEW CATALOGUE
shows hundreds of illustrations of
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate,
Leather, and Optical goods. It’s free.
Send for it to-day. A post card will bring
you a copy by return of mail.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Xmas Bell
Charm, 7s 6d;_
with Pin and Chain,
12s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Card Case,
richly embossed, 10s 6d.
Extra heavy, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart or
Round Shape Pendant,
set Pearls and Ruble
or Sapphires, 255.
Solid Brass 8-day French
Carriage Clock, Well Fin-
ished, Lever Escapement,
4fin high, 40s. Other
Styles, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, Pearl-set Scroll, 17s 6d.
15c; Gold, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold,
6 Fine Opals, £2 10s.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
16ct. Gold Star Pendant or
Brooch, set Fine White Pearls,
£5 ss. Similar Styles, 355,
40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 3-Bar Brooch, set Pearls and Ruby or
Sapphire. 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires, £8;
8 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Pure Diamonds
and Rubies or
Sapphires, £7 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, Ss 6d, Ms 6d:
Silver Filled,
6s 6d; Solid Gold,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold and Pearl Trowel
Charm, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Serviette Clip,
2s 6d;
Extra Heavy, 3s 6d.
<=#(
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Stone
Set Shoe Charm, Is 6d.
Lady’s Purse and Card Case,
Seal Leather, Black and
Green, Pure Silver Mounts,
15s. Other Styles, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Cigar Case, Morocco Leather,
Tan or Black, Silver Shield, 10s 6<J.
Other Styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird Brooch, Pearl,
Ruby, or Turquoise, set Spray,
4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Manicure Set, handsomely
embossed, in Silk-lined Case, 15s.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bar Brooch, Amethyst
Centre, 7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Scent Spray,
Solid Silver Top, 10s 6d.
Full Size, 12s 6d.
Extra Rubber Bulbs can be supplied
if required.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hair Brush, richly embossed, extra
long fine White Bristles, 15s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Ivy Leat Bar
Brooch, 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain Purse, Richly Embossed,
Size sin x 3£in, 70s; Engraved, 60s.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Act. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, set Diamond
and Fine White Pearls, 22s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Dumbbell
Links, 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold, 255; Silver, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Floral Spray Brooch,
set Diamond Spark, 12s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold “Luck”
Shoe Charm, 5s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Nail File,
3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Tie Clip, 2s.
Engraved, 2s 6d.
9ct. Gold, 12s 6d;
Engraved, 15s.
New Zealand Greenstone Heart
Pendant, 9ct. Gold Mounted, 10s M,
smaller 8s 6d. ot M® r StJ »
5s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Shaving Brush and
Soap Holder, Solid
Silver, 15s 6d.
Other Styles,
7s 6d, 10s 6d,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray Brooch, set Fine
White Pearls, £4 10s
The Latest Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Signet Ring,
2.05; 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3;
Larger, £5.
Solid
Silver,
JB2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Sliver Hunting Keyless
Watches, Full Jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3,
£3 10s, £4, £5, £6, and £lO.
Solid Gold, £7 IOS, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
Solid
Gold,
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bamboo Bracelet, fitted with strong Safety
Chain, 255.
Larger, Oct. Gold, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Hand Clasj
Ring, 255;
3Gct. Gold, £2 10s;
18ct. Gold, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BucicXe
Ring, 17s 6d;
15ct. Gold, 30s;
18et. Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDEKS
9ct. Gold Pin.
Chain and Wishb-
Charm, 5s 6d;
Larger, 7s 6i
Book Marker, Solid Silver-rno^tod 3^ Tewjealand Greenstone Handle,
loner, 4s 6d. Other Styles, 2s 6d, 4s bcl.
A. SAUNDERS.
Curling Tong, Solid Silver Handles, Richly Embossed, Polished Steel End, 6Jin
long, 3s 6d. Other Styles, 5s 6d, 15s 6d.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A.
809, 811. 813,815,817 George*
Opposite New SYDNEY, N.S.W-
Railway Station, PI VI' ** «


DLU
RECORD
sa
Cylinder./ (t Dljcj.
Are Unequalled for Tone & Clearness of Reproduction.
GOLD
MOULDED
RECORDS .
LYRIC, V- “ H
Symphonic, 1/6 „
“Half Foot,” 2/6 „
Our New 1907 Catalogues of Gold Houlded Records are now ready, and contain a
greater variety of selections than have ever been listed before.
FREE COPIES ON APPLICATION.
Dept. B. COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO., Gen’l.,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
ORIGINATORS of the GOLD MOULDED RECORD
PATENT TWENCENT
INCANDESCENT OIL LAMP
60 Candle Power for Less than One Farthing
per Hour with Ordinary Kerosene. V?
STAND LAMPS complete from 18/6
EACH.
. ALSO .
Bracket & Hanging Lamps.
DOES yoor LOCAL STOREKEEPER STOCK THESE GOODS ?
IF NOT, WRITE TO s
WELSBACH LIGHT C?
OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
439-441 KENT STREET, SYDNEY .
230 FUNDERS LANE, MELBOURNE. 48 VICTORIA ST., WELLINGTON, N.Z. PERRY BROS., BRISBANE.
HAROLD COLTON & CO., ADELAIDE. J. M. FERGUSON, LTD., PERTH, W.A.
K
“HARNESS THE WIND”
WfTH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN'S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
m
10p.
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- 4 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents— Ellsott Uros., Sydney; Felton, Griirwade & Co., Melbourne.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office.
Consult HERR RASSMIISSEN^PiciaiM
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Ouaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALITY.
M ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
■jjirill c ur e tlie Nevvea, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
13oxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
cm a rilßC 1 Dll I C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLUUU bUnCi rILLo. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
i«l_ _|_ mfninon Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WB3K tflf OSTIt.II Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
HI HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE i
<)1 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANB PETER RASMUSSEN.
A PATENT AUSTRALIAN
B
each
AT ALL
HARDWARE
STORES, &c.
BILLY CAN
That’s the JER-DAN BILLY CAN.
It was invented by an Australian for the
exclusive use of Australians.
Great for Picnic Parties.
A boon to Bushmen,
It holds six pints.
It has a corkscrew —a tin opener—a tea
strainer —a handle —is a kettle, a
billy, all combined.
The quickest and easiest Billy Can to
use ever devised.
You’ll never burn your fingers or get
black tea with the Jer-dan Billy.
If your Store does not
stock it send postal note
or money order for 2/0
to any of these addresses:
JER=DAN BILLY CAN CO.,
393 George St., Sydney; 142 Queen St., Brisbane;
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne ;
Goss & Co., Perth, W.A.
JER-DAN BILLY CAN CO. 393 ™sv s D g
1
THAT CIGAR!
You remember that cigar a friend gave you the
other day—what a good one it was ? —most
likely it was a
KING OF ALL K & B HIGH LIFE, 17/6 A 100.
Delicious in flavor. Not strong but just right.
SAMPLE BOX OF 4,1/- POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George st. } SYDNEY
GRIEF WRECKED SYSTEM.
HARROWING TALE OF DESPAIR- LOSES MEMORY AT TIMES-
Clements Tonic
WORKS A WONDERFUL CHANGE.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
So many go on suffering year by year through
lack of serviceable information, it is deemed ad-
visable to place before the public the story of Mrs.
Mary Janeßudd, of 38 Young-street, Red fern, so
that a salutary lesson may be learned. V\ hat
Mrs. Budd said to our special was this
“It is now eight years since my husband died,
a calamity that took place when we had been
living in this house nine years, so you see I have
been residing here a good while.”
“Yes,” assented the reporter. “ I believe you
are an old resident of these parts ? ”
44 j was born in Bourke-street, and have lived in
this locality all my life. But, to go back to my
story. I«t was not long after my great bereavement
that I became a total wreck. The blow nearly
killed me, and for a good while I was really
stupefied with grief. For some considerable time
my memory was completely lost, and it was im-
possible for me to concentrate my mind for a few
minutes upon any subject. When my dazed con-
dition passed away it was then that 1 realised how
terribly my whole system had suffered, a fact
which dawned upon me as I stood at the table one
day feeling so ill that I did not think I would live
till the morrow. For my own part, I did not care
what happened, but I thought of my three little
children, and said to myself : ‘What ever can I
take to do me good for their sakes ?
“Was that the first time you thought of taking
anything?” . , , ,
“ It was the first time I thought of acting on
my own judgment, the reason being that I was
under a doctor for some length of time, and his
treatment hadn’t benefited me in the least.”
“What did your medical attendant say was
wrong with you ? ”
“He told me I had taken my afflictions in-
wardly, and that my nervous system was in a very
weak state. I knew that well enough, unfortu-
nately, for I could not even bear to hear the
children talking, their voices got on mv nerves so,
and if a tap came to the door I nearly fainted with
fright. I hadn’t the least desire for food, and I
think one of my greatest afflictions was my in-
ability to get to sleep. For four years I did not
know what it was to sleep properly for one night.
It was usual for me to remain awake till about 3
or 4 o’clock in the morning, and then dose off till
half-past 5, when I always awoke with a start, and
would get no more sleep till next morning. And
the dreams I had each time I slept—they were
awful.” • i j ■
“You must have lost weight during your
illness ? * *
“ oh'! I was ghastly. My bones were almost
protruding through my skin, and anybody seeing
me could not have thought otherwise than that I
would never get better again. I really thought I
was doomed to die, and feel sure I would have
been dead long ago ONLY FOR CLEMENTS
TONIC, WHICH WAS THE LAST MEDI-
CINE OF ALL THAT I TOOK. A friend often
used to say, ‘ Why don’t you try some Clements
Tonic ?’ but I always postponed doing so ; but at
last I thought that as I had heard so much about
it, and nothing else could dome any good, I would
give Clements Tonic a trial. This was the decision
that I came to the day that I stood at the table
feeling that I could not last another twenty-four
hours, so what better reason than that could I have
for saying that Clements Tonic saved my life?
You must understand that I was quite incapable
of doing any work, and that it was a common thing
for me to be in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly
unable to attend to anything that required seeing
to, so when Clements Tonic began to put a little
life and strength into me you can imagine how
thankful I was for it. And weren’t the neighbors
surprised to hear that I had taken a turn for the
better ? My word, it was a matter that astonished
nearly the whole of Redfern. But what a relief
it was to have my headaches ease off after suffer-
ing so long with them ! And wasn’t I glad to feel
that Clements Tonic was also doing good to my
nervous system? Why, I had only been taking
that remedy a few weeks when I couid stand noises
of any kind without wincing, and already I was
getting more sleep than I had had for years.”
“Did you feel more refreshed after it than
formerly ?”
“Oh ! yes; much. The reason why, I suppose,
was that I did not dream at all, so both my brain
and body were resting all the time, and when I
awoke 1 felt so fresh and lighthearted—no nasty
taste in the mouth as before, a clean tongue, and,
my word, what an appetite fer breakfast I had !
Clements Tonic did make me eat and no mistake,
and my nerves were getting stronger and stronger
as the days went by. Eventually my old fears and
imaginations died right away, nothing more
troubling me, and all this wonderful change was
entirely due to Clements Tonic. Oh ! I have
thanked God thousands of times that I was guided
to take that remedy, and I am so anxious that
other sufferers may regain hope by hearing of my
cure. But Clements Tonic served me well in other
ways. It put an end to the giddy feelings I used
to have, removed the swollen feeling from my
eyes and the suffocating sensations from my chest,
then, finally, built up my strength so perfectly
that everyone could see my health was thoroughly
regained.”
“ May I publish your remarks ? ”
“I gladly give you permission to publish them
in any way.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I MARY JANE BUDD, of No. 38 Young-s reet, Redfern, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, consisting of five
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is a true and faithful account ©cjmy
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements—
which I Rive voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd.) MARY JANE BUDD.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, THOS. CADDY, J.F.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. ■ Is. PacHet of 12
,_y SPECIAL RATES TO ACENTS,_ " _ . lOd. » 10


4*
.
■ •
SH
'
a.- 4 '*
ffl
~ - *
fit
m
n
■
iM-
i
§|ilg
7"
> .
"
i
m
i>:~m
'
■ :
81118
t •// v/-r * V
liSSSllSlllil
3
as
mt
T** a —l****
J 4 Nwe *io
vI
n
Arr^
.5 . ' >
Si
Old Lady: “ Don’t cry, little boy! Are you Hurt ? ”
Little Boy: “No, but I will be. I’ve dropped father’s
CAPSTAN TOBACCO down the g'rating'!”


CITIZENS’
Life Assurance Company
LIMITED.
•' -• ■ ; - :r . ■ ! ! ■ r. .; ;
HEAD OFFICE s
CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLEBEAGH AND MOOIIE STREETS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
BRANCHES :
NEW SOUTH WALES : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, CASTLE-
RE AGH AND MOORE STREETS, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 281-283-285 COLLINS
STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 381-383 QUEEN
STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : CITIZENS’ BUILDING, 131 KING
WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.
WEST AUSTRALIA : 241 ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE,
PERTH.
TASMANIA : LIVERPOOL AND MURRAY STREETS,
HOBART ; 66 ST. JOHN STREET, LAUNCESTON.
NEW ZEALAND : 6 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON.
UNITED KINGDOM: 3 BUCKLERSBURY, CHEAPSIDE,
LONDON, E.C.
£1,817,511 Bs. 8d
Assets at 31st December, 1906
Securities, Municipal Loans and Debentures
£1,817,511 8 8 100.00
*The Bulletin, 22nd February, 1906, said : “ The increase in the holding of public securities—which
means safety—is notable. No other Australian office of first or second rank has so large a proportion.”
The Company’s Consulting Actuary, fir. R. P. HARDY, F.1.A.,
F.F.A., in his Report on the 1905 Ordinary Branch
Valuation, says:
Wk&
m
m
mu
Mr. Ralph P. Hardy, F.1.A., F.F.a.
“Looking to the high protecting margin involved in the
restrained estimated interest-yield of only 3 per cent., lam
of opinion that the appropriation of £45,019 out of this
Surplus was safe; and that, moreover, it leaves all sources
of future profit, whether from an excess of interest-yield of
nearly 1\ per cent., or from the other usual accumulations,
intact, so that new entrants may Join the Company in full
reliance that they will receive in addition to the advantage of
a tried and matured official organisation, the full benefit of
their own contributions.”
Specimen Bonuses
In resped of the One Year 1900, per £lOO of Policy.
ORDINARY BRANCH.


Cl
THE: CHILDREN’S FOOD.’
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, Equitable Buildings, Sydney
Tel. 4552.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
w
■HNS
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting,
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomu-
ARE son > 317. CollinsjSt., Melbourne; or
irunwii Tfl 1 act a, _ simply address
KNOWN TO LAST. “Greener, Birmingham.”
The Bulletin
T POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. y. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahonv, Hugh
McOrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street, Sydney.
Aledlcator, «lzo
3i laches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining-
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose jo the head,.ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the brhath offensive, breaks down
tlie affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stotpach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere. ’
Address: Star NoTelty Col, 229-231 Collins' Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
FAT FOLKS
BEDUC E
your weight
5 lbs. a week
No inconvenience. No strict diet. Pursue
your ordinary avocation. Endorsed by Physicians.
Book and particulars free. Address—
J AS. CRAIG & CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne.
✓
*
%
ointment
CURES
THE BALLET GIRL
i
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.O.g SYDNEY,
21
PURE
o.
M
nm
'/mm
REGISTERED
. 21■2 - 0 S • '
'ft (t /if]/' ft// ..
I&CiC./rWsl ,/////r:t/1'
y///-// /y/ fr^}tt’u/
//U7s/wt./‘ /WHISKY .MS
LRESH 'ripe LEMONS. ry /fM </ ml
[(■■ <fU
torf/d.a/*y;//// fy ///
•faujflftijfi/U '/ /// /'77/7'?7/A'-J.
"o/'j'/y/ //, v , f. f /, //, ,///■ //t'r/
tj/ffie’dodu >?/}</ //mh
| t MtWv/e/cr/rn ma/t <t /'
<■'! M l//, y . J
; ASA SUMMER REFRESH LR uu/fl^'J
rt‘£ofdrf a/tiYe'r// A> fwtyta'p r ,,
,>; jS AWIHTER DRINK, //.Jr rM/' ,/</■" <'»<& l ).
(' «tri M/t/y r ,) // df/// /' ’ ,l>l .
‘Mw/atina4 W*W'W// /^re-U'ff--- a r 0 ■
uift'l/il/e '(wir-y&k r-rft/y.j o / mm// ■
r SOUE PROPRIETORS FOR AUS TR . Al
r/j
m, /w/
fd
//
DUNKLING’S
WATCHES
Aw f*erfectly Accurate.
Every Watch thoroughly regulated.
A Written Guarantee is given with
every Watch sold.
Racing Chronograph,
%
Gunmetal Open Fkce Keyless Chronograph,
20 Jewels, Fly-back Seconds, Minute Re-
corder, and all''the newest improvements.
Guaranteed for ? Years. Post Free to any
part of Australia. 1
Warranted equal to any £lO 10s *
Chronograph made.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Australian Depot for ZEISS and
GOERZ FIELD GLASSES.
W. DUNKELIE^G,
315-317 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE
MEN ONLY!
Why be a Weakling? Why be a failure when
health would make you a success in life? Act
to-day. Delays are dangerons.
The Homoeopathic Treatment
Cures Debility Restores Vitality
Banishes Weakness.
Renews Sprightliness
and Vigor,
Makes Weak Men
Strong, and Strong
Men Stronger.
The Irving Homoeopathic Treatment
Will, cure you quickly and surely. Write
to-day, and we will send you FREE
sealed, the sbh Edition of our Brochure’
“ WORDS OF WISDOM,”
a valuable Medical Booklet. Address—
IRVING HomfflopatMe Institute,
Corner Hunter & Bligh Sts., SYDNEY.
Ask your Stationer for a Sample Of
IWILUAM MITCHELL’ST
Z, WILLIAM
io MITCHELL’S
CD1«I CLASS SHOULDER .
NS 9. First Class Shoulder Pen|
the Original Quality ByTue Original MAKEF
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH,
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office,
A
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
5*
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
F ° ods f re absoluteI Y free from . any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment/hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN $ HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON, # Bridge Loftus Sts., Sydney
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.


Eruptions Appeared on Chest, and
Face and Neck Were All Broken
Out—Scales and Crusts Formed
lowa Lady Has Great Faith
in Cuticura Remedies for Skin
Diseases.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
CURE BY CUTICURA
“I had an eruption appear on my
chest and body and extend upwards
aiid downwards, so that my neck and
face were all broken out; also my arms
and the lower limbs as far as the knees.
I at first thought it was prickly heat.
But soon scales or crusts formed where
the breaking out was. , Instead of going
to a physician, I purchased a complete
treatment of the Cuticura Remedies, in
which I had great faith, and all was
satisfactory. A year or two later the
eruption appeared again, only a little
lower; but before' it nad time to spread
I procured another supply of the Cuti-
cura Remedies, and continued their use
until the cure was complete. It is now
five years since the last attack, and
have not seen any signs of a return. I
have taken about three bottles of the
Cuticura Resolvent, and do not know
how much of the Soap or Ointment, as
I always keep them with me.
“I decided to give the Cuticura Rem-
edies a trial after I had seen the results
of their treatment of eczema on an
infant belonging to one of our neigh-
bors. The parent took the child to the
nearest physician, but his treatment did
no good. So they procured the Cuticura
Remedies and cured her with them.
When they began using the Cuticura
Remedies her face was terribly disfigured
with sores, but she was entirely cured,
for I saw the same child at the age of
five years, and her mother told me the
eczema had never broken out since. I
have great faith in Cuticura Remedies
for skin diseases. Emma E. Wilson,
Liscomb, lowa, Oct. 1, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N\ S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, frpm Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cutieura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &
ChetS. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, IT. S. A.
183™ MailediFree, “How to Care for Skin, Scalp and Hail.
Address, R. Towns & 00., Sydney, N. S. W.
TNI
&
eh
4&AL
Ph
€>9LE • AUSTRALIAN "AGEHTS
BARNET GLASSeA
city dcpvt. 2,ae Flirxders L6.r\e.
PE>.
We are just landing
an entirely newstock
of the famous
MICHELIN TYRES,
winners of all the
principal races in
1906, including the
great VANDERBILT
CUP RACE.
F-opT S C C 5 ,Z>CY'
LJS3
QUEENSLAND BRANCH
Colonial Mutual Building 1 ,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agencies :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Bane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Building's,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOVVS 8R05.,.
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon. t
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
Up-to-date Office
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
fOHN SANDS, 374 George St«, Sydney.,
Sole Australian AoßN'r Wabash .Systems
105,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Autralia laughed III! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, Is
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE*)
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of- Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
*
Mil
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverish ri ess, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
c : -
WINCHESTER
43
•n
m
Al
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols.
Winchester cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50, shoot]
where you aim when the trigger!
is pulled. They are always!
accurate, reliable and uniform.;
Shoot Them and YouTl Shoot Well.!
Always Buy Winchester Make.
&
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
II J :' I ; -1 ;
Also in Two
other Shapes
S&me Price*
No. lO
Ji . . ' .) i:.: ; !/!
ALL SIZES
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
1513
...M
STAG'S
HEAD j
BRANDI
• ,
OF
BOOTS
j
: : : ' > I
.> , a: .00 i
I
l
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALFj
• * |
1416
BUCKLEY &NUNN, Ltd.,
MELBOURNE.
The Inky Way.
J. L. Kelly, who for eight years has discharged the
thankless task of editing the Times (Wellington, M.L.),
has made way for another, who is to try the impossible—
that is, to please everybody, and to hell ice over a
cold fire. The directorate of the Times is a fear-
some collection of irreconcilable elements —Liberalism
and Toryism, beer, ieetotalism, vegetarianism, and sun-
dries. If there was a cannibal on the directorate things
would be complete. All the directors nave a voice in
running the paper, and every man on it is haunted by
certain directors who want his biood, or, at least, his
dismissal. But they burn their fingers occasionally
through their mania for changing the staff.
a sub-editor, was awarded six months’ salary by-the
Supreme Court when he was suddenly dismissed'; and
with the general manager they got from the S.M.
Herald— -he is long since back at the Herald —they had
to make sundry arrangements, which meant paying out
money. The new morning paper to be soon established
in the windy capital will give more trouble to the
astonishing Times directorate.
* * m m
“E.”: A copy of No. 3 of Dramatic and Sporting
Chat, published at Hobart, is the first I have seen of that
unique newspaper. The' matter, mostly taken from
British sources, is very readable, although some weeks
behind the date. And how humorous is the publication
in design ! To get a first copy of Dramatic and Sporting
Chat one must place an “annual subscription” fee of 6s.
with one of the advertised agents. In the edition for.
’ eacH'State' the names'and addresses of local agents only
are included. Having paid your 6s. subscription, and
given your name and address, you are gravely informed,
by tbe .agent that subsequent issues of the rag can
be obtained gratis by all “subscribers” who call at the'
Hobart publishing office. Then you take your copy of
the latest issue (if you want it), and your receipt for the
six bob,.and in due course kind Mr. Tattersall- sends you
a ss. ticket for his next sweep, followed by a result sheet
of the drawing. Thus does Mr. Tattersall encourage the
demand for Chat. In return for his kindness you may,
if you like, again become a subscriber. And in that case
another ticket is forwarded to you., Dramatic and Sport-
ing Chat is a wonderful journal. There never was
another paper that got so enormous a, proportion of its
circulation paid for in advance, or so many repeated sub-
subscriptions from individual subscribers.
0 • * •
“ Q.”: In tjie same way that men deem all mortal .but
themselves.'so do they seeiri to think that'the past gene-
ration was always old., In the Vic. Manufacturers’ Exhi-
bition, artist Elamite Young shows a piotUre representing
the printing of Johnny Fawkner’s first Melbourne news-
paper, the Port Phillip Gazette. ! When 'this 'event
occurred, Fawkner was a blithesome youth, and the whole
population of the Port Phillip; settlement was young—it
probably averaged about 20 or 25 years of age. But Blamire
has constructed ; his picture , from authentic: documents
and sketches of the same individuals drawn many years
latey, with the result that he shows the P.P.G. being,
turned out by a body of sere and yellow journalists, who
would ha,ve taken two hours to catch the slowest item of
news that ever ran down a drain'.
» . ~* • ' *
One of the quaintest swan songs ever sung was that of
the Koqkvnif. Herald (W.A.), which, one day,last months
printed this ‘ announcement under “Deaths”: “At
Kookynie, on the 12th inst., in its second year, the
Herald, of tcedium vitae . Friends will please accept
this intimation.”
* • • , * i
“Hamer ” : There is something more than a bare possi-
bility of a new Sydney' daily, run in the Labor interest,
seeing the light during the present year. When such a
•paper is successfully launched, i<■ will mean a pretty Con-
siderable bump to the circulation of the Herald and
’Graph, for thousands of people who are compelled to
read those autocratic journals for their daily news would
jump at the rpportunity to change to a journal of cleaner
politics. Probably, too, it .would mean a considerable
change in the politics of the present papers, in the
struggle to placate the disgusted readers who want a
' change of literature. It is thedaily news,-however, that
is the difficulty, and the Herald and ’Graph, which
talk much about unions and the iniquity of interference
with free competition, wilL.fight as they.have fought
before to.exclude any new journal from their news syndi-
cate! But the finances of Labor are fairly good now, and
an effort of the sort could not be crushed as easily as it
was on a previous oocasion. A new paper might even
force some decency of argument upon its,older rivals. A
paper that would rise up the da£ after'the} publication of
a'report about sundry hatters, or wrecked .Chinese, or
shattered marriage ties, arid not only call the rag that
published it a picturesque liar, but prove it one, would
make the vendors of those lies sit up-considerably; also
it would furnish some excitement for. the-community.
Unfortunately, there is likely to be over-much vagueness
about- the fiseal pol-icy-of-a -Labor - daily';— Yefr the~Labor
party has of recent years been gaining sense, and,
at any rate, its journal would - not ory-out -for-Belgian
goods and the destruction of Australian industry quite
all the time.
ODE TO PETER MARK ROGET, WHO WROTE THE
“THESAURUS.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, Peter Mark, I must, shall, or will say that your book, '
work, volume, tome, or opuscule is one of the most !
pleasing or entertaining that I keep in my house,,
shanty, or hovel; !
I’d rather or sooner read or peruse it any day, hour,
week, or month than the newest, latest, or most
recent narrative, story, or novel;
It gives me (myself, the undersigned) words, epithets, or
phrases to throw or hurl about when I’m as wild,
enraged, oiSangry as a clucking dove,
Or, on the other or opposite hand, helps or enables me to
properly or successfully guide or steer my pen when
I wish to be as mild as any sucking, dove ;
Prom its depths I can dredge or scoop charming or lovely |
specimens of trope, metaphor, catachresis, simile, or
whatever may tickle or please ye,
Which, for the making or manufacture of good or first-
class literature, needs only adequate setting (and that,
of course, is very simple or dead easy).
And if I wish for a group of prosy or platitudinous ex-
pressions to hang some highly respectable and conse-
quently half-dead metre or verse on,
So that I can follow or emulate the lowest or deepest
bathos of our old or ancient acquaintance or friend
the right or proper-thinking person,
I have no need to strain or rack my brain or thinking
apparatus until I acquire the not-altogether-desirable
look or expression of a thoughtful or pre-'oc'cupied
plesiosaurus—
No, not a bit or scrap of it! For I can simply march or
toddle to the part or section of my bookshelves
devoted' to R,, and lift or reach down “ Roget’s
Thesaurus,”
Which is why, among other or alternative causes or
reasons, I am moved to devoutly hope and trust that
in elysium or glory you sit, man,
Along with those other admirable and altogether delight-
some threaders or stringers of words, Rabelais, Burton
of the “ Anatomy,” and Walt Whitman,
With the ball of jest and mirth and good-fellowship
always or perpetually kept going (its course was
probably, or not impossibly, started or begun by Rab),
And the demijohn or decanter of nectar sometimes, or
not infrequently, set flowing (to it, I doubt not, or feel
fairly certain, justice would be done by Rab) ;
And some day I will certainly travel or journey to your
mansion or abode in those realms of joy or bliss to
express my admiration or esteem’s abundance,
And rushing passionately forward, I will fervently ejacu-
late, exclaim, or say—
“ Oh, Peter Mark,
Illumer of verbal dark,
Did your earthly or mundane conversation, talk, or chit-
chat never suffer from something like that faintly
indicated or outlined above, which may be described
as plethora, engorgement, or redundance?”
YIC.
N.L.


DIREC
OUT
CSMERHS """"
given awav i
This First-Class Camera, complete with all
Accessories, Material, etc., necessary to
produce the finished photograph,
For ONLY 2s, 3d,, post free.
NO PREVIOUS EXPERIENCE NEEDED.
Takes Actual Photos This Size,
a
m
s
Anyone can take splendid photographs with the LITTLE GIANT CAMERA It is
absolutely the cheapest reliable apparatus on the market. Other cameras not half as good
are being rold for more than double the money, and added to this the purchaser has to
spend sometimes twice as much again on accessories before a finished picture can be shown
Inthecaseof the wonderful LITTLE GIANT everything is included in the pricl we7sk
Only 2s. 3d., postage paid anywhere-everything just as shown in our illustration. The
camera is a first-class instrument, fitted, with a fine quality Meniscus Lens, and measuring only
21 x 2i x 1J in., takes up very little room, and can be carried in the pocket with perfect safety
Takes pictures quite equal to the more expensive cameras. We have seen some splendid
specimens of work done by the LITTLE GIANT. We wish we could show them to you
You d write straight away for an outfit. Every camera guaranteed, and any purchaser not
entirely satisfied with it, or, m fact, with any goods we advertise, can have his money back in
full. Full instructions for taking the Exposures and turning out the finished photo are given
and the directions are made so clear that no one need hesitate to send right away and become
a full-fledged photographer in a few days. Remember the low price. ONLY 2s 3d com
plete with ALL ACCESSORIES, and we pay postage anywhere.
Extra supplies of Accessories can always be obtained from us, price for complete eauinment
(including Plates, P.O. Paper. Hypo, Developer, etc.,) Only 6d. post free. H P
Complete Stocks of all Photographic Supplies and Accessories in stock
“‘SS"’ H. J. SMITH & 60.. W Hunter SI., Sydney.
DON’T BE “DOZEY”
during business hours—the wide
awake man, with good digestion
and a clear brain will pass you
sure !
Grape-
food contains the natural food
elements from wheat and barley
—Albumen, Phosphate of Potash,
e^c ‘ —that keeps brain and
nerves in perfect repair, and
make easy digestion.
Note the difference after 10
days use of Grape-Nuts.
“There’* a Reason.*'
Postum Cereal Co., Ltd., Battle Creek, Mich., U.S.A.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
£6 15s.
V ■:
PB
O,
r&tz-
mm
U
%
. .»*- ~'£S>
A Practical Writing*
At a Low Price ! =
T IIE '““T ° f ‘i 6 P °? al iS 80 Simple and StroDg tha ‘ not ° nly haS the numb6r o£ P arte be “ bro "« ht about one third of what it
l »in the high-priced machines, but, what is far more important, the number of accurate adjustments has been reduced to the proportion of
1 to 28 compared with other type-wheel machines and 1 to 76 in type-bar machines.
The “Scientific American” referred to it as one of the most original and practical things brought out in the typewriter art in many years
In some of the lower and medium pnced writing machines, keyboards arranged to suit the particular construction of the machine have to be
employed, each of such keyboards being accompanied with ample explanations as to why it was superior to the Universal Keyboard. As the
Un,versa! Keyboard is used on all the high-priced standard machines it must be the best. Anyone who can operate the Universal Keyboard can
operate on any typewriter having it. The advantage of the Universal Keyboard is therefore evident. The Postal has the Universal Keyboard
of course, as there is nothing in the construction of the Postal that can make it undesirable or impracticable
Interchangeable Type.
Tbe Postal offers the advantage of changing in a few seconds
one style of type to another, or from one language to another.
THE POSTAL
HAS UNIVERSAL
KEYBOARD
• • •
PRICE, £6 15s. WITH OAK CASE, *7 lOs.
OSBORN JERDAN, LTD., 393 george ST.,
“MY OPTICIANS»»
~ " 1 """
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
Facing Royal
Hotel —i
SYDNEY
You meet it now in quite unexpected
places. For instance, in a recent address made
by president J. M. Joshua, of Melbourne Chamber
of Manufactures :
We must provide land for those who will come here
and settle. ... You will say there is no fun in paying £5
for land that we sold for £l. No, neither there is.
Neither will there be any fun in paying £2O for the same
thing ten years hence.... A Domesday Book, in which
present values can be recorded as a basis of future tran-
sactions, is necessary. The unearned increment farce
must cease.
Still, with a sufficient land-tax, there wouldn’t be
much need of a Domesday Book; though a
Domesday Book might be a convenient thing as a
basis for determining whether the land-tax was
high enough or not. If future land values got
ahead of Domesday Book values,, then it would be
good evidence that the tax needed hoisting.
“0.K.”: The aesthetic sense of fair “ Try-
phena ” is naturally offended at the recent
crop of Penny Ruskins in charity covers.
But in some previous popular editions of
the works of the great word painter there
is a cheapness which is not nasty. The
Shilling Ruskins, first issued by George Allen
ere his copyright had expired, are the nicest
of little books. The simple dignity of the “get
up ” seems to proclaim the character of the work,
even as the pedantry of literary cliquers is shown
in the fanciful bindings, expansive margins, and
odd decorative effects of their books of essays
which appeal only to readers of their own mental
type.
Premier Bent, the Promiser : “We have
been Goths and Vandals in the past, but now the
Minister of Lands is going to make a condition
that where a tree is cut down another must be
planted in its place.” Unless something like this
is done, Victoria ,will soon be within measurable
distance of haying no trees to cut down. But
Bent makes this sort of promise at the rate of
about two per day, and promptly forgets all
about them.


Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of .. .. Mr. HARRY RICKARDS.
EVERY EVENING, at 8.
MR. HARRY RICKARDS announces with pleasure the
Complete Success of
THE SIDNEY HOWARD ENGLISH DRAMA CO.,
in the Highly Sensational Drama,
A MODERN JUDAS.
Box Plan Elvy’s. Prices, 3s,' 2s, Is. Booking Fee, Is.
Early Doors to Stalls and Gallery, 6d. Extra.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYD.MEY,
Under the Direction of .1. C. WTLLIAMSON.
LAST WEEKS of the SEASON, and FAREWELL PER-
FORMANCES IN SYDNEY of Miss TITTELL BRUNE.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of LEAH KLESCHNA.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as LEAH.
SATURDAY NEXT, FEB. 23, for Five Nights and One
Matinee Only, SUNDAY.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE...' as SUNDAY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, s y dFey.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
BLAND HOLT’S Popular Australian Melodrama
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
Artistically Interpreted by the Favorite Dramatic
Organisation of the Australian States.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
ww (The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Me. William Anderson
SWEPT BY “OCEAN BREEZES.
MADAME FLARO, the Human Comet. A Blazing Hit
WORLD’S OBSERVATION TOURING CAR.
A Glorious Italian Trip.
SENSATIONAL MONTE CRISTO DIVE.
Professor Cormack and Miss Cormack.
KING’S THEATRE OK VARIETIES.
The Cream of Vaudeville Novelties.
Fun-Producing Devices Without End.
Amusements.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloouial Humorist.
Great Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
MISS CASSIE WALMI2R, MISS RHODA DENDRON.
Mr. FRANK G. KING. THREE GIBSON GIRLS,
MISS FANNY POWERS. BABY WATSON.
LAST WEEK of CHANTI and FRED. CURRAN.
Mr. ART. SLAVIN. Mr. FRANK WALSTAB.
SELBO, the King- of Clubs. THE RAY SISTERS.
CLAUDE LEPLASTRIBRE, IRVING SAYLES.
QPEBA HOU SE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Pronrietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
SIGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing Dogs
and Monkeys.
KWERRIES’ NOVEL ILLUSION ACT.
LEONIE DIXON, Serio-Comic and Dancer.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-roo.pi Entertainers.
CORA CASELLI, Song and Dance Artiste.
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES— 3s, 2s Oa, 2s, Is.
1.1 ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ “ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
NINTH WEEK and
GREAT SUCCESS EVERY EVENING of
Mr. J. C. Williamson’s Pantomime Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
By the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
|\|EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
Lessee WILLIAM ANDERSON.
EVERY EVENING,
a Bright and Diverting Story of Australian Station Life.
Mr. William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in
the Great Drama of Australian Life*.
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
Depicting station life in the days of‘Ben Hall.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING AND
SMELTING CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Registered under the Companies Act of 1899.
CAPITAL: £150.000, in 30,000 Shares of &5 Each,
Registered Office : 118 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. ’
DIRECTORS:
L aA E uTwS SSELL HALL > CAPTAIN GEORGE ANDERSON RICHARD,
mow FRANCIS HUGH SNOW,
RICHARD GARDINER CASEY, SIEGFRIED HIRSCH
Secretary : JAMES SYDNEY SPARK.
Bankers: THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Solicitor : P. V. MeCULLOCH.
The Company has been formed for the purpose of erectibg-Customs Works for the Smelfinsr and
Reflmng of all classes of Ores, Mattes and Metals, but those containing Copper and
For public information only, the whole of the Capital has been privately subscribed.
_ Amusements.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
EVERY EVENING,
THE WILLOCGHBY-WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY CO., including Miss Grace Palotta, in
THE NEW CLOWN.
tUS" PRICES—Ss., 35., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
piVE ACRES COVERED WITlt THE
' WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2to U r.M. J3P' - ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
THE HAT OF THE DAY.
8/11
POST
FREE.
The MURDOCH
Manila Hat is a
hat of unusual suit-
ability and notice-
ably superior
quality the best
in all respeots yet
sold at the price.
It is a perfectly-
made Manila.
It weighs only
ounces.
It is lined or
unlined.
It is bleached or
unbleached.
It is new in
shape.
It is the coolest
hat in the world.
It will fold up
and go into the
pocket.
IT’S A LONG
WEARER AND
COHES IN 3i to
3} inch BRIHS.
Genuine
Panama
Oddments,
15 6
Very fine quality.
MURDOCH’S in Park St., Sydney.
“WHERE THE GOOD HATS ARE.”
MURDOCH’S MACINTOSHES, guaranteed two years, 21s.
r
&
“SUNSHINE ” HARVESTER.
The World's Best.
The “SUN” GRAIN & FERTILIZER DRILL
—Hoe anti Disc.
The NEW ADJUSTABLE PLOUGH.
2,3, 4 anti S Furrows]
The “SUNRAY” DISC PLOUGH.
2,3, 4, 5 and 6 Furrows.
“ SUNRISE ” STUMP JUMP PLOUGH.
High and Heavy—2 to 8 Furrows.
“SUNRISE” STUMPJUMP DISC
PLOUGH, 2,3, 4, 5 and 6 Furrows.
I*et me send you my new
Illustrated Catalogue.
Sent free to your address.
SATISFACTION
ITS HOME IS HERE.
With the Sunshine Harvester
. .AND. .
“Sun” Series of Implements.
IT*
- i
iHi
« -®><L
HV.IVISKAV
Ml
w«
, K! ffi
H
EflEi.
s«BBBEE
mm
urn
Best Agricultural Implements
In the World.
Hugh V. McKay,
FACTORIES BALLARAT & BRAYBROOK.
MELBOURNE OFFICE - 668 BOURSE STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE 42 ENGINE STREET.
Adelaide office - - 56 north terrace.
PERTH - W. SANDOVER <®L CO., HAY STREET.
•'
MAXIM " UHAFFCUTTER. Nos. 1,2& 3
“ HERCULES ” HORSE WORKS. Ito 4 H. P.
“SUNDIAL ” DISC HARROW
THE ECLIPSE GRADER.
lillllliilfiP
Perkir.s’ Patent Bag & Bale Loaders
GARDEN and FIELD GATES.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Steamer.
WAKOOL ..
NARRUNG
WILCANNIA
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Albany Agents : HENRY WILLS & CO.
Brisbane Agents : WILLS, GILCHRIST & SANDER
SON, LTD., Creek-street.
Banking.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 18SS.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt.Stock,£43.43s) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munr.o, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John CaVneron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
Thu Colonial fQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid tp Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
\ 105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hop. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
The
Bank of Qorth Queensland
LIMITED.
(Established 1888.)
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
t SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Cten Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Bauking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. .v .'. £500,000.
HRAMTQ BRACT 6 on Australia, New Zea-
UVIftN I O UflHr I Q land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Bank of ||eui South QJales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... .. ... 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund.. 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 5,475,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Uther, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Brond Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency r of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... .£4,000,000
Capital Paid up .£1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Hoad Office—96 Bis hops gate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlib,
Geraldton; Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, OimweHURCH, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—AdeIaide and throughout the
Soilth East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any' of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
KT. D, L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Eg-ypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
•Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 12th MARCH.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. ..9th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Roy al Rank of Queensland
LiMJTien. "
Capital Paid-up £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of liondon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A. j
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY. I
OCEAN
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
DAMASCUS
UMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
H. A. Schleman ..
T. F. Spalding ..
A. Simpson
Noon, March 2
Noon, Mar. 20
Noon, April 26
*T\vin Screw. tCalling at; Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
PERSIG, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 23rd FEBRUARY,
RUNIC, MEDIG, AFRIC, and
SUE VIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGG AGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. It. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, lisq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
I
HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY,.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
3J Days to Auckland 8| Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to ’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails FEB. 25,1 p.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 11,1 p.m.
R.M.S. SONOMA Twin-screw, sails APRIL 1, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
# THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Upon - all - Classes - of
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TBRMS.^/
WE
&
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
||)oitdipieteo.e|ii|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREACrH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To Canada, United States, and
England.
NEXT SAILINGS—
MARCH 18th, APRIL 15th,
MAY 13th.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th.
The Most Comfortable Vessel on
the Pacific.
tsr Send for Illustrated Pamphlets. “t£Ji
+. :
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. V
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of Eight Different Articles, comprising
Yankee Rubber Baby (can be carried in vest pocket
and blown out to life size—causes roars of laughter),
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Kail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheea of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in' Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
XNew York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping,
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED.).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE. 1
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port fori
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
March 6.
S.S. Yongala, Wednesday.
March 20.
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. .
BRISBANE, |
MACKAY, l
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, March 2
S.S. Buninyong, March 9.
Best aiul Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
saloon Passage Tickets , are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messag-eries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
r Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
PORTy Fi?A EM m N v TLE ’ COL °MBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
Batavia, and Japan. '’pASSAGe’mONEY, 1 £25 to £7s’
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen s Corner, Pitt Street. Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Principal Agent
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MR&. TOBINS.
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfiekl Parade
ST. HILDA.
THE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beaen.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Union
Brisbane*
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading- members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERHS MODERATE.
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
IA#IM POLE’S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St.
ICilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift.
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne, .
Telephone No. 10kS. CATERER
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and Banquets and
Private Balls ?“ able Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Business Announcements.
II APACIO” TILE - LIKE COATING.
■* Dfl COOLS Best ! Lasts Best !
Insist that Cases be Opened on the Job.
WHITE or COTTA . Note Spelling:
Chief Ironmongers and “ A —R —A—B—l—C,”
Color Merchants. Trade Mark.
IF
YOU HAD AN ACCIDENT .. .
and held an Accident Policy in the SOUTH BRITISH you could receive DOUBLE
YOUR USUAL INCOME whilst laid up, which would pay the Doctor and
Chemist. VVe issue Policies from £1 Is. per annum upwards.
SPECIAL TERMS FOR SPECIAL NEEDS.
SOUTH BRITISH FIRE, MARINE & ACCIDENT
CAPITAL £1,900,0CQ. 12 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY. George H. Moore, Manager.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDUBIT.


“ G-.” writes :
Speaking- at the annual luncheon of the A.N.A., Vic-
Minister of Agriculture Swinburne was daring enough to
chide public speakers for the vice of over-talking. Con-
sidering that the A.N.A. itself has been responsible for
the most horrible examples of long-distance oratory that
afflict Australia, the surprising thing is.that the members
did not arise as one man and pelt Swinburne to death
with cake and turkey. But their consciences evidently
smote them, for they said “Hear hear” in a chastened
way, as if they had never been guilty of such a thing.
What is badly wanted in Parliament is the Swiss
system of dividing the time of the session by the
number of members, and allotting to each his fair share.
The professional bore who h d only half an hour left,
when the session had three weeks to run, would exhibit
some masterly examples of condensed thought. The
adoptiou of the rostrum would be another improvement.
The BHtish practice of allowing a man to speak from his
seat in the House is probably responsible for more of the
loose-jointed, inconsequential flapdoodle that disfigures
Hansard than anything else. When a man has to mount
a platform and put forth his views, he takes the trouble
to prepare them.
“ Snell ” discourseth on drink, girls, &c. :
It’s an ill wind that blows nowhere, arid the much-
abused new Victorian licensing law has served a good
turn to cabmen and people with vehicles to hire. There
is nothing so provocative of tfiirst as the knowledge that
you can’t get a drink, and when Melbourne is doing a dry
perish in the waste places of the Seventh Day, it rushes
the cabs and traps, and drives beyond the 10 miles radius,
regardless of expense. Consequently, the spectacle of
large feet hanging out of cab windows in the Sabbath
moonlight is now quite common in and about Melbourne,
and, as the drunk is proverbially lavish to his cabman,
the Jehus are thinking-of making T. Bent their patron
saint.
Another person who has occasion to bless the law-
makers because of the new order is the barmaid. Bent’s
Act has put quite a new complexion on St. Kilda Esplan-
ade on Sunday nights. For a.time habitual frequenters
of the grand promenade, wondered at the great excess of
vivid damsels with peachy'cheek’s "and garments finer
than those of the numerous Mrs. Solomon when she bad
been shopping in Jerusalem! The new-comers are the
bright band, of barmaids liberated from Sunday graft in
the dim bar, and free to join their sisters Tn the human
race, which is developing into the mere brazen pursuit of
man by woman.
By the,same token, young men are much more freely
distributed about the public resorts than formerly, a fact
which maiketh glad the heart of woman.. Bent’s, enact-
ment hasi scared; the bachelors who fo’rtnbfly' lurked in
the rum religious light of the forbidden bar; they are
driven back upon the girls for consolation, and the girl is
much more in demand as-a.popular pastime than she was
wont to be. The law that treats alike'the publican and
the sinner has been most effective in breaking up Sunday
drinking bees. The appearance of an ingenious man who
well succeed in driving a brewer’s lorry through the Act
is eagerly anticipated, but meanwhile the girls are glad,
and a marriage boom is predicted.
TWO POINTS
..ABOUT..
AERTEX CELLULAR
FOR UNDERWEAR and SHIRTS.
FIRST —lt is the only make of fabric which
. combines comfort, usefulness, and
wearing qualities with the most scientific and
rational requirements of a body covering.
SECOND —lt is not expensive, easily
' washed, and of attractive
appearance.
Write lor samples and illustrated price li ts—post
tree ; or CALL AND INSPECT.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAI & Co.,
94 KING ST., SYDNEY
(Between George and Pitt Sts.)
George Fairbairn writes from Melbourne :
As I know your newspaper likes to be accurate, I would
like you to give me space to rectify an obvious error in
your last week’s issue. You make me say that the
British municipalities’ Socialistic works “ returned a
profit, after paying interest and providing sinking fund,
of only 6s. 3d. per cent.” What I did say was that the
profit returned on the £121,000,000 of investments made
by these municipalities was oidy 6s. 3d. per cent., without
paying any interest and without providing a sufficient
sinking fund. My figures were collected from Mr.
Schooling’s article in the Conthmporary Review, and
which have never been controverted. The question is, of
course, how the people’s business can be best done, and
if 6s. 3d. per cent, is to be the outcome of municipal
trading the sooner we get done with it the better.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
VITALITY
BEGETS
VIGOUR!
As vitality of the system is father to vigour,
necessarily your first duty and thought when you
find yourself run-down, is “ How can I restore' •
my vitality ? ” In order to answer that question
we have spent years in experimenting and investi-
gation, and are now able to tell you at-dn.ee. -
“Restore the animal electrical energy to your
body, which by excess, over worry, or accident—all
producing disease—has been lost, and you will
, regain your vigour.”
For years we have been restoring Vitality,to
the afflicted, and to such a stage of perfection
have we brought our treatment that IN EVERY
CASE accepted by us as curable, we give a
written guarantee to cure or refund your money. '
(We reserve the right to refuse any case we do not
care to, guarantee.) Is not this a fair proposition ?
You take NO risk. Your Health or your Money
Back is what we say to You.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
Offers you a Royal Road to Health. It pumps new life and
energy into your nerves and tissues for hours while you sleep. •
It is unlike all other remedies. It requires no internal remedial
assistance. Thousands have worn it and praise it. Try it, and
you will never regret the investment. f
SEND THIS COUPON FOR FREE BOOK.
™ e Dr. McLaughlin Co.
100 W. Market St., Sydney.
Please send me your FTtEE BOOK, postage prepaid,
and oblige, Yours
Name
Address
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
B. 21-2-7
%
m
«SS
V5 V'*)Y,
I
Wv
ri! \
IT IS GUARANTEED TO
renew vigour, restore lost vitality, remove for ever the effects
of early excesses or dissipation. To cure the aching weak back
of the victim of this too common malady. It cures Stomach
and Liver troubles, Kidney and Bladder complaints, Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Sciatica, and the.
wearying, dragging pains that affect so many women.
IT IS AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN.
FREE BOOK
Every sufferer, man or woman,
should send, for our . book, in which
we show our Belts by handsome
illustrations, and describe in careful detail our method of
effecting permanent and lasting cures. Send the coupon
opposite and we will post the book to you free and prepaid.
Do not hesitate, but send at once, as the book costs you noth-
ing except the stamp on your letter. No sufferer can afford
to be without our Book.
CONSULTATION FREE 3
If you are close enough to call, come into our consulting rooms and
let our Specialist your case with you. We make no charge
whatever, and place you under no obligation to purchase. We will
give you a Free test of ,the Belt.
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Daily. Monday, Wednesday & Saturday evenings.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including- Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, IS 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free. Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Cliiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d, New
Tricks with Goins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING p
THE POPULAR '*PLAIN HOME- TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as-it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in (Jbnsulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning’ mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISI I ACfION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of'this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 40p Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’S
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor f Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
, fadden’s. Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, ;Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night,' -Is 3d. Women’s : Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in, Melbourne,; Is posted. ,
• ' All thesfe prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I've got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
ONLY A SnALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
♦ ;
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY*
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT..-
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d po£t. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubator?, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2S. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
,(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohbvasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure,’ Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ill us., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and musie com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY;
SIR ROBERT BEA
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
The Illustrated Medical News
says“ Infants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.”
»
For MfANYS, INVALIDS, and tha AGED.
FOOD IS SOLD BY CHKMISTS, &C., EYERYWHEtIB,
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value/’


i ns & S wansfort S*
ST.AUSTRALIA ML
VICTORIA
Collins
WEST.
3955397 HaySf Perfh
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward Si?
NEW ZEALAND
1465145 Queen ST Auckland.
IS3 LambtorvQuay. Wellington.
236&25% HighS 1 ;
Princes S DowlingSl? Dunedirrjuj
J
/I
11 Ml
ff its from
Stewart Dawsoh’sl
its good.
- Write the w
store nearest
you.
You can order anything on this page with every confidence—if it
does not please you in every way, return it and get your money.
Your request for return of money is just like a cheque on a bank.
Vie pay postages and guarantee safe delivery. Catalogues Free.
No. HS2s—lsct. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll
Brooch, £llos
No. G446l—Strongly made Diamond and Ruby
Set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £3
No. G9oo3—Secret Photo.
Pendant, Set. Gold, JEll7s6d
15ct. Gold and Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
No. G 6367 —15ct.GoId and Fine Diamond
Set Brooch, £2los
No. G7657—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Set Photo. Pendant, £2
Plain Styles,, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d
No. G9789—15ct. Gold, Diamond and
Sapphire Set Brooch, £5 10s
15ct. Gold Single Diamond Brooch,
£3 10s
Swan Fountain Pen. All Solid Silver—Plain, 35s ; Chased, 455.
18ct. Gold-Filled—Plain, £2 ; Chased, £2 10s each, in Case.
No. G 6006. —15ct. Gold Two-bar and Filigree
Brooch, £1 ss. ,
No. G 9395.-
-15 ct. Gold and Pine Pearl
Brooch, £2.
No. G9922.—501id Silver Full Size Penholder, 10s 6d ; Plain, 8s 6d.
No. G733l.—Pearl Set 9ct.
Gold and Greenstone Heart,
£1 7s 6d ; Plain Greenstone
Hearts, 11/6, 13/6,15/6, 17/6.
MIIHM
No. G7913.—9ct. Gold Muff Chain, New Style, £4.
No. F927B—lBct.
Gold King’, Half-
Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2 10s.
No. G9755.—15ct. Gold and
Pearl Safety Pin, 30s.
No. P 5419—2 Dia-
monds, 3 Sapphires,
ISct. Gold, £2.
18ct. Gold and Dia-
mond Engagement
King, £l2 10s.
rsßSimsrs is i
No. G 9280 — Faceted Link and Chased Bead 9et. Gold Muff Chain, £4.
No. F3 —15ct. Gold Rope Bar and Ball Muff Chain, £9 10s.
9ct., £5.
No. G 9193 —9ct. Gold Faceted Secret Link Muff Chain, £4 4s
No. G2s2o—9cfc. Gold Muff Chain, £2 17s 6d.
No. H6l3—lBct Gold,
Diamond & Sapphire
Ring, £2 10s.
No. F 873 B—lBct. Gold,
Gem Set, 5 Row
Ring, £7 7a.
Special Value Solid Silver
Match Box, 7s 6d.
Initials or Name, Is extra.
S V M /
%
6=3
tE \«ABT DAWSBNg,
\
V
The Waterbury Watch for Men, Keyless,
Nickel Short Wind, 10s 6d.
No. G67s6—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold Heart, £2 ss.
n
No. G6996—Lovely
Sapphire Set 15et. Gold
Locket, £3 10s.
Keyless Steel Lever Watch, Durable and
Accurate, £1 ss,
No. 66742—9 ct. Gold, Pearl and
Amethyst New Style Necklet,
£4 ; others, 455, 90s, 105 s.
StewaryDawshinsC o
■ r . t, o .*,*. 0 r -
fj •(> ‘rW'fP'KWf /
(~ V, r ts.rifi.
\ ') V:.r^.x
U ' , •
No. F4B37 — Pearl and Turquoise Studded 3et„
Gold Heart and Necklet, £4 10s.
No. G67s4.—Pearl Set
9ct. Gold and Enamel
Pendant, £1 10s.
No. GSB76—Fine Pearl
and Amethyst Pendant,
set in 15ct. Gold, £5 ss.
No. H2o72—Nursery Rhyme Child’s Silver-plated
Oup. Sensible Style ; Substantial, and not
easily upset, 9s 6d.
No. Hls7l—Solid
Silver Vase. s}in. (
12s 6d ; 6Jin., 14/6.
Case of Solid Silver Hair Brush and Comb,
21s, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
The Grecian Key Gold Mounted Back Comb,
255. Other Styles, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, 21s.
No. G 9428 —The Thistle Sugar and Cream Stand,
Best Silver-plate, £2 10s.
Silver-Mounted Shaving
Tidy, 10s 6d.
When Yon Visit London!
Heat Your Friends and
Fallow Australasians at
Stewart Dawson’s,
19,20 &21 Hatton Garden, EX,
/"\NE of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART DAWSON & CO.
for the better reception of the many visitors to London from Australia. It is miles ahead of any building anywhere devoted to the Jewellery
business. Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and New Zealand Stores of all the new
things as they appear. There are Three Showrooms, Home Offices, Reception Rooms, Two Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
the least, a Bureau where you can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort, or have a glance at the Australian and New Zealand papers.
This convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addressed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will always be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


'r MaK&s the SKIN
CLEAR* POSY
TRY IT ~
AT OUR EXPENSE..
A DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jar of Creme
Simon. Box of Powder, and Cake of Soap, sent on
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover postage.
JOUBERT & JOUBERT. rtlelbourne; CLAUDE NEALY A CO.. 6) fm SL.
Sydney; or LOUIS JOUBERT. 519 Wellington St.. Perth. AGENTS.
It is nice to do the
necessary cleaning with
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
That is obvious at once from its
pleasant flavour and the feeling of
freshness left in the mouth, and of
course you will soon see how
splendidly, how easily, and how
thoroughly it cleans.
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
> Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.<
Your Fortune Free
■By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me your
name, date of birth, sex, if married or single, and 1/- for
'postage, etc., and I will mail you, sealed and confi-
dential, a document of great value to jmu in the pursuits
of your future happiness in love, business, and other
“elds qf life’s activities. Thousands are this day blessing
the hour they first wrote me. Address-
Prof. Henri de Astro, 386 Bourke St., Melbourne.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Riatr’e GOUT AND
iildU d RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail. 1 f ry
They Always Cure. JIIIIo
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strancj,
London, England
gout
P Give Me
The Sweet and Good
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
HERE’S A BARGAIN.
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT,
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch, <*/
Post Free. “
Black, Cream or Black
Tipped with White.
Worth Twice the Money.
Write To-day. Send Postal Note.
Illustrated Price List sent Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., Sydney; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swunston Sts., Melbourne.
Mention The Bulletin.
“ Yawn ” holds forth with unexpected
firmness:—
When a certain type of Australian is let loose on a
holiday, he grabs what is affectionately termed his “ bit
of skirt,” and gyrates in a monotonous evolution. This
is “ darncirT.” Even barbarians, when they wish to ex-
press joy, or any form of elevated emotion, make use of
rhythm, which, in the healthy human animal, takes the
form of graceful movement—graceful because of a sense
of measured motion. Bowen, one-time Governor of
Victoria, when viewing a band of Fijian dancers, re-
marked : “ It’s nautchy, but it’s nice.” And so it
is with any form of dance that expresses an
emotion—“ it’s nice,” however “nautchy” it may be.
Take the peasantry of some European countries—
Italians, Spaniards, Hungarians, Poles, Russians—all of
whom have much less reason for expressing joy than the
Australian. They have distinctive dances which express
joyous feeling, and, especially in the Mediterranean
countries, the close relationship to the drama is a con-
spicuous feature. Some of their dances are strengthened
by expressive mime, and no physical effort is ever so
weak as to show a lack of healthy vigor. Dances closely
associated with religious rites belong to other countries.
There again the appreciation of graceful movement pre-
dominates.
These somewhat philosophical comments were pro-
voked by viewing a “ bloke ” with his “ bit of skirt ” on
New Year’s Day. To use the vernacular of the type, they
were “on their own.” Selecting a level patch of grass,
they embraced, and with mincing steps moved like re-
volving lay figures to the music of a mouth-organ. The
instrument was played over the girl’s shoulder by the
youth, and the absence of healthy movement and grace
was only equalled by the lack of a sense of humor, a
failing shared by nonchalant onlookers, who saw nothing
ludicrous in this lugubrious entertainment. It is such as
these who compete at suburban waltz contests, where
the judge, the better to see the feeble movement of the
high-heeled feet beneath the lady’s skirt, must lie down
on his (excuse me) stomach.
In affecting the genteel, to use a vulgar word appro-
priate to the subject, an inert and meaningless dance has
been developed. This type of Australian is peculiarly
sensitive to ridicule, which, combined with his lack of
humor, tends to check any effort in the direction of
graceful movement. Grace would at once be stigmatised
by his “ cobbers ” as “ actin’ the toff,” or what a higher,
but no less vulgar, stratum of society describes as
putting on dog.”
We have Highland fling's and Irish jigs, but these are
not of our soil. Even the Irish-Australian, when he
attempts the steps of his fathers, affects a set counte-
nance, out of keeping with the spirit of the dance. I
once attended a “grand ball in aid of the Jumberwallock
Football Club.” My unexpressed opinion was endorsed by
an old lady to whom I ventured the remark :
“ Fine to see the young people dancing, Mrs.
O Grady ! ” ' '
* l ® anc ' n ’j yez call ut? Sure they do be turkeying,
nothin’ but turkeying. Why, I moind the toime whin
on the ould sod, and even neow if ut wasn’t for me
rhematiz,” etc.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
i>o Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
Will Anprape
BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guidk by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over nO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
is eacn. keynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Devil in Sydney,
Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is. House Painting
and Papering, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post, Is
3d. Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave,, is;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Fruits of Philosophy,
Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. How to Make
Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Confession of a Melbourne Barmaid, illus., Is 3d.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business
f uturity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.’
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage
Is. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, .1243 pages, over 100 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, is. Lover’s Letter. Writer, Is. Tocology
for Mothers, 7s 6d. Lightning Calculator, Is.
Minstrel Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is Money
Making Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter
Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren Is; post Is 2d. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
US'" AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
The “Son of a Gun” vS 1 quirt Pistol
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The “Joker” Trick Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
closed,
and, to
the
a rq a z e-
ment o f
your friends, upon re-opening- the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7d. post free.
PUZZLE PURSES. —Superior quality leather and
strong nickel frames. Price, post free anywhere,
1/9 .and 2/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. - Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Handles, Spring
Back. -Puzzle to shut as well as to open. A
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and
2/8, post free anywhere.
H. V. HUTCHINSON,
| The Look and Laugh Glass,
[ See the Passing- Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes- all
tt-is, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, wagg o n s,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
■witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
* s "l® 11 a £ d . strongly made, and cannot get out of
Older. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles,
Surprise & Joke Hove/ties.
Write for Price List B.
The Laughing Camera.
I The Demon Rattle Box Trie fc
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Ring's,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing articles are found on the
other side of the room. Indispensable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, 1/9, post
free anywhere.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDN EY.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
FIIOOR JSTAINS stain and varnish with one operation
C ’ Permanent hardwood colors produced on Flc~- "
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired
EIVAMEIj gives unsightly Pipes Boilers
in or orudoors. a< Simp I ly toushit om tC "’ a dui ? le> untaruis “ finish,’
00 * A ? A ■ « Ol <® «*A 'VT (Beady Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ecouomicafand satisfactory^ 681 ° aDy surfaoe ' For all decorative purposes,
For sale by all up-to-date dealers . Avoid imitations .
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual) '.'or NS W- 263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY .
o^^A N . NUA? - PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
tv ®f ECIAL BENEFITS: (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £iW for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
i 6) A], l? - P« week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. FerJufi. Particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
Dritisb=Husiralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in Lbndon.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
,
Australians visiting London are cordially-
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR - - - - - J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Price
KNOWN THROUGHOUT
THE WORLD.
The Pelman-Foster
System of Memory
(OF WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION)
Is Thoroughly Taught in Five
• Postal Lessons.
MIND WANDERING CURED I
SPLENDID TESTIMONIALS.
Write for FREE BOOK which will tell you
all about it.
The Secretary, Box 402, Genera!
Post Office, Melbourne.
ENGLAND—4 Bloomsbury Street, London, W.C.
AFRICA, FRANCE, GERMANY, INDIA.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send
date of birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and
postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by K,. Herschell, who has
supplied Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes,
W. E. Gladstone, and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (of London),
Box 3, Hawthorn, VICTORIA..
Private Address—Woodville, Mt. Albert.
Fill in, Cut Out and Send Tips Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight,Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
On the hottest days I am cool and
comfortable because I am particular
to drink little, and to see that the little
I drink is either pure “Montserrat”
Lime Fruit Juice, or “ Montserrat”
Sweetened Lime Juice Cordial,
diluted with plain or aerated water.
‘Montserrat ’ is sold by all chemists, grocers, etc.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.S.W.
E6e LEADING
HOUSE ™
[cant
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
UMItUttUUI
lUUI
Best Selected SilKworm Otit. Hand Polished.
The “RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the B.st Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., 9d. ; Padron No. 1,16 in., Is 3d ; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
g
No. 328 — SparfOW Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
-5 x 12, with ropes, peg's and sticks, 21/6 each
do. do. 26/- ea.
do. do. 31/6 ea.
do. do. 38/6 ea.
do. do. 42/ — ea.
5 x 15,
5 x 20,
5 x 25,
5x30,
No. 329— Bat Folding Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles ; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 2S)s. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
/fc',
i { • " *
Ur>d
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where ‘‘Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations l The great success oT HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc .lly.
MATINS? -Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. St is equally beneficial for
IsU I IwC. the youngest child and the most aged person. -
1 POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
u\. Price, Gd.
r Fluid. 1
COLORLESS,
FRA RANT,
Nom-?018' NOUB.
1/"
Pint Bottles.
Indispensable in all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd, Limehouse,
London, y
Given
Away
For
CORRECT
ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE
Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for
our picture postcards, we have devised this
simple method of advertising with the object
of making our name more widely known and
to introduce our new Catalogue, we offer
you a grand opportunity to display your in-
genuity, and receive the generous reward of a
Silver Watch (Ladies or Gents) or any articles
picked from our catalogue to the value of £i,
for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an im-
pression on your mind that you will
be compelled to talk about us to your
friends, and tell them about the extraordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well
satisfied customer :is the best and most effective advertisement that can be secured. By this plan, therefore,
we hope to greatly increase the number of our customers without adding to our expenses by awarding as
prizes many thousand pounds worth of Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO,
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes u’ithout any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows
nine squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle, is to place
a number on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a
straight line in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same
figure. Our decision is to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, men-
tion whether you would like Lady’s or Gent’s Prize, This is an honest offer made by a responsible firm.
The distance you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal op-
portunity for winning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for.solid cash.
With your solution of this puzzle send postal note for 3/- for which we will send you six dozen
of the most artistic penny picture postcards you have ever seen. Everybody wants picture postcards, and if
you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances
who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of. thus you get double the value
for the money you send with an excellent chance of .winning a Solid Silver Watch,
Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 35., and a stamped addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs, or Miss, and address
your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, 5 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
5
\
8
THE GREATEST
Blood Purifier
KNOWN.
This Great German Medicine is the
CHEAPEST and best. 128 doses
of Sulphur Bitters for $l.OO, less
than one cent a dose
It will cure the worst
kind of skin disease,
from a common pim-
ple on the face to
that awful disease,
SCROFULA. In
all cases of such
stubborn, deep
seated diseases,
Sulphur Bitters
is the best med-
icine to use,
Don’t wait un-
til tomorrow,
try a bottle
TO-DAY.
/ Don’t ever
take BLUE
PILLS, or
mercury,they
are deadly.
Put your trust
in Sulphur Bit-
ters, the purest
and best medi-
cine ever made.
IsyourTONCUE
COATED with a
yellow, sticky sub-
stance ? Is your
Breath foul and of-
fensive? Your Stom-
ach is Out or Order.
Use Sulphur Bitters immediately.
If you are sick, no matter what
ails you, use Sulphur Bitters.
Don’t wait until you are unable
to walk, or are flat on your back,
but get some AT ONCE, it will
cure you. Sulphur Bitters is
THE INVALID’S FRIEND.
WE ARE OHTHE SPOT
WITH
m
m
ALCOCX&
The •
Onl^
Subslifufe
for •
Ivory
155 •
ju/zabjsmSt
MElrB.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREEI]
You can become a Hypnotist in a
time without leaving your home- .. -dslip
sway the minds of others, control it
and affection, cure disease ana o
gratify your ambitions and B*‘f Illa ,tr»i(d
mentby the hour. My mammoth
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism w „ on
free of charge and postage paid, w TtcoU tains
all about this marvelous science. , a o k
beautiful and artistic engravings,
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely Illustrated literature w th-
out charge. A chance of a lifetn,,,.
Write to*day. Address—
.A.*
Pitt st., Syd' ie > f
=>rof. R. H. BARRADEN, a 9
ON
Price 21
THE HOP
The Bulletin Office, SydnO


NO HOUSEHOLD
should ever be without
a bottle of
DR SHELDON'S
magnetic Liniment.
A Reliable Remedy for Rheumatism,
Lumbago, Chiioiains, Cuts, Burns.
Bruises, Aches, and Pains.
Sold only in Bottles at 1/6 & 31- jgV't^
Accept no Substitutes.
A CONVERSATION.
Q. I have been feeling very poorly lately, and have just been told by my doctor that I an 1
suffering from uric poisoning. I shall be glad if you will tell me just what uric poisoning means. lan
a serious matter ?
A. Uric poisoning is caused by the retention in the blood of various substances which should
leave the body in solution. The retention of these substances is due to a diseased or inactive condition
of the kidneys. When the kidneys are working perfectly, they filter and extract from the blood of the
average individual about three pints of urine every day. In this quantity of urine should be dissolved
various waste material produced by the wear and tear of the tissues of the body. This is dead matter,
and its presence in the blood is poisonous. The three pints of normal urine should contain about ten
grains in weight of uric acid, an ounce of urea, together with other animal and mineral matter varying
from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
Q. Then lam to understand that the substances you mention when not eliminated from the
bodyi'n the natural manner constitute what is known as uric poisoning. What are the usual symptoms
by which the presence of these poisons is manifest ?
A. Now you are asking rather a large question. Many complaints which are commonly called
diseases are not actually diseases in themselves. lor instance, Hlieumatism, Gout, Neuralgi* ,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel, Stone, and Bladder Troubles are all caused by uric poisons.
Indigestion, Ansemia. Persistent Headache, and General Debility are often solely due to
the same cause. In fact, if the kidneys are doing their work freely and thoroughly, none of the com-
plaints mentioned could trouble us as the causative poisons would be absent.
Q. I had no idea that so much depended upon the efficient action of the kidneys. I suppose that
when anyone is suffering from lidieumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, Anaemia, Debility, Persistent Headache, or Indigestion the
scientific method of effecting a cure would be to directly treat the patient for the kidneys ?
A. Exactly. In fact, that is the only way in which a radical and permanent cure can be effected.
The kidneys must be restored to health and activity, so that they may be enabled to remove the daily
production of poisons in the body, or the patient must continue to suffer.
O. I have always been under the impression that the liver had a great deal to do with the main-
tenance of our general health, but it seems that the kidneys are the chief cause of most of the disorders
from which we suffer.
A. The work done by the liver is of the utmost importance and it is closely associated with the
work done by the kidneys. Indeed, when anything is the matter with the liver the kidneys are almost
always directly affected, and the contrary is likewise true. In the liver various substances are actually
made from the blood. Two or three pounds of bile are thus made every day. The liver takes sugar
from the blood, converts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able again to supply it to the
blood °radualiy, as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble,
into urea which is completely soluble, and the liver also deals with the blood corpuscles which have
lived their life and are useful no longer.
O 4.s the functions of the kidneys and liver are so intimately related, I gather that if there is
reason to suspect that either organ is not doing its work efficiently a curative agent should be
employed which would act equally upon the kidneys and liver?
A Yes, that is the case, and it was the realisation of this important fact which led to the dis-
covery of that invaluable medicine Warner’s Safe Cure. About thirty years ago, certain medical
men knowing that if they could find a medicine which would beneficially affect alike the kidneys and
liver they could control most of the common disorders, devoted themselves to the search for such a
remedy. After many disappointments, their efforts were rewarded, and a medicine now known as
Warner’s Safe Cure was proved to possess the required properties in the fullest degree. Warner’s
Safe Cure has a marvellously stimulating and healing effect upon both the kidneys and liver, and by
restoring those vital organs to health and activity, it necessarily cures all disorders due to the retention
in the blood of urinary and biliary poisons, such as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Ancemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Trouble
General Debility
Sick Headache
Even Bright's Disease, probably the most fatal of all diseases, yields to treatment by
Warner’s Safe Cure.
A great feature too, is that cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent, simply because
they are natural. (5J
The End of Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
bright Day gathered his lazy hosts
I When he saw the hordes of Night
Mustering fast on the eastern coasts,
To threaten each beacon light.
Black and fierce was the Night’s array,
While the Day’s gay army seemed
Naught but laughter and bright display
In harness of glass that gleamed.
The white Day spoke to his careless men,
And they gathered on either side ;
And there was a testing of sword blades then,
Till the keen steel sang and cried.
And dark and scowling the sullen Night
Came forward to meet his foe,
Never looking to left or right—
Sinister, evil and slow.
The brave Day laughed in the face of Night,
And smote with his sword swung high,
And every stroke was a beam of light
That dazzled the Night’s reply.
And slowly, driving the swarthy ranks
Ever to right and left,
The Day host marched in a firm phalanx
Down a path by their good swords cleft.
The strong Day sang as he led them on,
Though his blood the red path dyed.
Quoth the : “ March on till we reach the Sun,”
And they fought and bled at his side ;
For the swords of the Night found many vents
In their armor of brittle glass,
Yet the blades of the Day made recompense,
And" they had to let him pass.
Faint grew the Day and his weary hosts,
Fighting to reach the Dawn ;
And Night held sway on the silent coasts —
On river, and hill, and lawn.
One by one Day’s staunch braves died,
Till he marched West alone,
Dying, swaying from side to side,
’Mid foes who had hearts of stone.
Then burned a Star in the murky sky—
White as the Day it shone—
And the spent king lifted his crown on high,
Ancbhis sword with its brightness gone.
He spoke to the Star: “ The hosts of Night
Arb stronger than I; take these,
You will meet the Sun at the fringe of light
In the mists of the morning seas.
“ Say to him that another Day
Has sent him a sword and crown,
For the hosts of the darkness held the way,
And my wounds have borne me down.”
The brave Day died ; and fast and far
The Star through the darkness whirled ;
For it was the brilliant Morning Star,
That carries the light of the world.
A new Day called to his eager hosts
In glittering ranks up-drawn,
And marched away to the eastern coasts,
In the steps of his queen, the Dawn.
He carried the sword of the Day that died,
The soft clouds saw him pass ;
Going to death they watched him ride
In armor of brittle glass.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Factory ’Ands.
BENNO AT A BOXING BOUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
big building was crowded. Below,
in the ss. and 10s. reserves, was a flood of
human faces. In the balcony opposite, the
2s. push piled itself against the railing. The
atmosphere was one of blue smoke, and through
this the stout, bald, purple M.C. in the ring
shouted the names, weights, and colors of the
competitors in the preliminary tournament, his
voice like that of a very old crow.
“’Struth, his jibs wouldn’t earn peanuts ez
gripman on er mussel barrer,” said the youth
next Benno, sociably.
The clerk looked wise. “Tha’s right, Ned,”
he said ; “ but Dinny’s er good ernough spruicher.
Grivin’ chat t’ aujinces this size jiggers up ther
-’uman organ, I tell yeh.”
Feathers, on a seat behind, touched the lad on
the shoulder, and edged him away from Benno
with a sidelong motion of the head. “ Knows er
bit erbout elercution, he does,” he said confi-
dentially behind his hand, ‘ ‘ somethin’ iv er horater
’imself. Fam’iy’s in Parlymint.”
“ Gar-rn ? ” said the lad.
“ ’S truth,” Feathers assured him. “ Mother’s
got the contrac’ fer scrubbin’ ’n’ dustin’.”
“Get yer ear out, Ned, ’r he’ll bite it,”
said Benno sourly to the stranger, suspecting
mischief.
Benno had been to a couple of fights before this,
and felt entitled to be regarded as an authority.
Down in his heart he cherished an idea on the
strength of the experience thus acquired that,
should occasion arise, he could give an excellent
account of himself. He had never hit a man, but
it seemed easy, and he had magnificent dreams
of outing fourteen-stone foes with a right cross
which he had frequently tried on a bed bolster
with success. This visionary feat always took
place under the eyes of astonished and admiring
multitudes.
Two featherweights were scrambling in the
ring, exchanging wild swings, and the referee
was dodging about, looking for points in a
pointless exhibition. Benno watched closely,
making a little critical “tut-tut-tut ” now and
again. During the rests he instructed the lad
next him with a wise, old air. The lad chewed
gravely, and said little. Occasionally he jerked a
quaint grimace at an acquaintance on the off
side, but nothing in his attitude was intended to
disturb the clerk’s pleasing faith in himself. The
lad had a thick ear.
“O’Brien ’ll out ’im this round,” said Benno,
with calm confidence, when the gong sounded.
“He’ll get that crool right iv his ercross, ’n
Scorcher’ll go t’ bunk, you take it frim ther per-
fessor.”
“ Bin in ther gameyerself, Ned,” said the lad,
with a touch of mock reverence.
Benno lowered his voice. He had an uneasy
consciousness of the proximity of Feathers and
Nicholas Don, the driver. “ Oh, nothin’ t’ speak
of,” he said in the way of a man deliberately
hiding his light. “Matter ever scrap ’r two.”
“ Perfeshional ?” asked the lad.,
“No-o,” said Benno, “not yet.”
O’Brien aimed a blind swing at Scorcher ;
Scorcher took it on his glove, and prodded his
man a straight left flush. “Ha-ha,” cried
Benno, starting up excitedly. “ What’d I tell
you? O’Brien’ll out ’im: O’Brien’s got ’im
goin’ ! He’s got ’im goin’ ! Five t’ one O’Brien !
I bet five t’ one O’Brien !”
“ In cherry-bobs ! ” said a derisive voice. _
Before the clerk could frame an apt rejoinder,
the Scorcher planted a left on O’Brien’s mark,
and a right on his chin, and O’Brien went down.
Eleven seconds later he was carried to his corner,
as limp as a dead eel.
“Er quitter!” cried Benno, disgustedly.
“ Ther Scorcher never touched’im. Tha’s offen
ther way with clever sparrers, they’ve got science,
but no ’eart.” Then Benno went on to explain
to the lad with the thick ear how O’Brien must
have beaten the Scorcher to dough if he had kept
at him. The lad seemed quite grateful for this
polite attention. “If ’e’d on’y kep’ that left iv
’is goin,” said Benno, regretfully.
A youth in front rounded on the clerk with
vociferous disgust. “ Garn, get work !” he
said. “ O’Brien never had a possible. ’E ain’t got
a left ’and, and ’e ain’t got a right. ’E’s a gander.
’E don’t know enough to win a tombstone novice
tournament up in the ’Ome for Incurables.”
“ Oh,” said Benno, composedly, “p’raps I know
somethin’erbout ther game. It’s just possible.
Then again, o’ course, I may be little Georgie, the
gazob, ’n’ maybe I’m goat ernough t’ gnaw ther
posters off ther ’oardings if I ain’t watched.” He
looked about to note the effect of this preposterous
supposition, and then warmed up. “But, all
ther same, Ned, I’m bettin’ twenty t’ five in quids
O’Brien does Scorcher up inside seven rounds
with two-ounce gloves. Come, now ! ” ,
“G’ out,” snorted the other; “you ain’t
talkin’; you’re on’y makin’ a noise.”
Benno grew rash. Money was nothing to him.
“ I’ll make it er ’underd t’ twenty,” he said, “ ’n’
arrange ther match meself. Er ’underd t’ twenty
on Jimmy O’Gobs. Say what?” He even
plunged his hand in his trousers pocket, where
lurked 3s. 4d. and a bone stud. “Is it er bet?”
he asked, defiantly.
“ My name ain’t Chirnside,” growled the youth,
quite overwhelmed. “ I ain’t got twenty spits.”
“Then get ’em ’n’ pull ther string,” retorted
the clerk. He looked about him magnificently.
Several people were regarding him with marked
respect. Benno exulted. He felt that he was
being mistaken for a bookmaker. “ Listen t’ ther
oof bird twitter,” he said. “ How does it talk
’im down.” He slapped his pocket.
“ What do you think of Brophy’s chance in the
big fight, young gentleman?” asked the grey-
beard on Benno’s left, with proper diffidence.
Benno looked him over slowly, somewhat
superciliously, took out a cigar-case, and drew out a
cigar. It was a somewhat worn and ragged cigar,
and Benno, who was no smoker, had once taken
it for a threepenny shout. It came in handy now.
He lit it like a millionaire. Then he condescended
to speak. “If yer wantin’ t’ pick up good money
dirt cheap, Whiskers,” he said, “ back Brophy.”
“Fer a win er a place?” asked the derisive
voice.
Young Mr. Dickson felt he could afford to
ignore the interjection. “Pi.t yer plate on
Brophy,” he repeated, “ his chances ’re all right,
He’s got ther quids ez good ez in ’is ’and. Hark
to the prophet. I admit ther big feller’s strong
’n’ game, but what’s ’e done? ” He looked hard
at the old gentleman, toying daintily with his
ragged cigar the while, and repeated, “ What’s ’e
done ?”
“Yes, yes; that’s the point,” said the grey-
beard.
“Whereas, look at Brophy,” continued Benno
tor the benefit of the company ; “ he’s bin through
’em all. He’s er bit small fer this, but he’s got
the science. He’s used t’ handlin’ big blokes,
too, ’n’ you jist watch out ’n’ see him quilt Mr.
Rocker “Dodd from gong t’ beddy-bye. Dodd
won’t ’it ’im, he’s too shifty. He’ll just pelt ’em
inter Rocker’s biscuit barrel, ’n' slide out every
time ther’eavyweight comes t’ pass’im one.”
“Ever seen either of ’em fight?” asked the
unbeliever in front.
For a moment Benno was taken back. As a
matter of fact, he had not. He rallied quickly.
“ Have I seen ’em ! Have I what ?” he retorted.
“ Brophy’s ez quick ez dam it, ’n’ gets erbout er
bit, I’m tellin’ yeh.”
“I ain’t seen Brophy,” growled the other;
“but this Dodd can shift. He ain’t as slow as a
house.”
“You’re cornin’ on all right, Ned,” said Benno
soothingly. “When you’re growed up you’ll
know er bit, I promise yeh, but jist now I
wouldn’t open me head too wide erbout boxin’ iv
I ifras you.”
Benno was very excitable and very demonstra-
tive during the other preliminary bouts. He
brandished a note-book and talked in hundreds
with the glibness of a King of the Ring. He even
shouted directions to the combatants, using their
Christian names familiarly. Feathers and the
Don, sitting behind, were enjoying themselves
immensely. They refrained from interfering for
fear of spoiling “our Mr. Dickson’s” flow of
skite, and the clerk, in his great exultation, had
forgotten their existence.
But'it was when the fight of the night came on
that Benno excelled himself. While the men
were in their corners his enthusiasm in the cause
of Brophy manifested itself in a reckless offering
of the odds to all and sundry. He stood on his
chair gesticulating over the heads of the standing
crowd, till those behind howled him down. His
cheap, dry cigar burst into flame at this point,
but that' did not disconcert him. Threats of
personal violence he treated with a cold, scornful
smile. He hoped he was looking as if he could
fight a bit. In his calmer moments he invited the
lad with the thick ear to call on him at his hotel—
Benno lived in a humble five-roomed cottage with
his ma and his sister Amelia—and he would teach
him a few hits that might be useful to him in his
dealings with a cruel world.
In the first round Mike Brophy showed himself
a flash fighter, and very fanciful in his movements.
He had a fine figure and feline grace, and was
anxious to display himself in the limelight, and,
while he was pouting his chest and striking atti-
tudes for the benefit of the artistic minority,
Rocker Dodd, who was a hard-headed, lumbering
pug with no eye for the beautiful, swung in a
punch that lifted the smaller man up off his two
feet, and dropped him like a bag of scraps.
“On’y er slip!” cried Benno. “He’s up agin
all right.” And so he was, but looking like a
man full of warm whisky suddenly ejected into
the cold night. Rocker sprang at him again, and
Mike ducked by instinct into safety under his
enemy’s wing. ‘‘ What’d I tell yeh ? ” squealed
the clerk. “ See that? What’d I tell yeh ? Ain’t
’e er beaut’ ? Rocker can’t ’it ’im. He can’t ’it
’im, that’s what.” Rocker shook his man off,
and punched with right and left, putting a lop-
sided head on Brophy, and then the gong
sounded, and a thankful fighter sank into Mike’s
corner.
“Ain’t ’e er beaut’?” vociferated Benno.
“Good man, Brophy! It’s twenty t’ one on
yeh ! Twenty t’ one Brophy ! ” cried the clerk
raising his voice. “ Twenty t’ one Brophy ! ”
A red-faced, pimply man bobbed up out of the
crowd, and pinned Benno with a fat forefinger.
“ Done ! ” he said, “ I’ll take that, Ned.”
“Twenty t’one in quids erbout Brophy!” re-
peated Benno, flourishing his pocket-book.
“Same fer me, mister,” said a sport with a
broken nose, tugging at Benno’s coat.
Several others were anxious to do business with
Mr. Dickson. “I’ll have er dollar’s worth in
that,” said the lad with the thick ear. “ Referee’s
decision.”
Benno was too elated to heed them. He was
shouting expert advice to Brophy’s corner. “Give
’im ther tow’l! ” he cried, disgustedly. “He
don’t want no sermons frim you. Wag ther
washin’, blarst yeh ! ” He turned to the lad with
the thick ear. “Wish I was in his corner,”
he said.
“ Bitter bad mozzle fer Brophy yeh ain’t,” said
the other.
In the second round Brophy was more anxious
to keep out of trouble than to show his elegant
shape, and he sprinted about the ring with Rocker
lumbering after him, punching anyhow and any-
where. Twice Mike was down, thinking, but
that did not damp Benno’s ardor. The clerk
was now offering 30 to 1 Brophy with splendid
prodigality, and there were many takers whom he
didn't even notice. “He’ll let ther big bloke
wear ’imself out, ’n’ then he’ll dish ’im up on ther
arf shell with er taste iv lemon,” said “our Mr.
Dickson.” Brophy was bleeding from a cut over
the eye, and had a numbed nose and a split lip,
and Rocker Dodd was wishingthe fight would be-
gin in earnest.
During the next interval Benno was more con-
fident than ever. He said it was picking up
money backing Brophy. He casually offered to
lay two hundred to ten about it. He addressed
Brophy like an old and valued friend, advising
him to keep cool and fight his own hand.
Mike tried to make the third round a foot-race,
but Mr. Dodd was there, and wouldn’t hear of it.
He blocked Brophy in the corners, and punched
him, and his punches liad all the nervous energy
that is in the heels of an exuberant young pack
mule. When they reached Mike, Mike’s feet
sprang up, and he struck the boards with the back
of his head. For the fifth time in two minutes
Mike was down, and now his better judgment
prevailed, and he pretended to be asleep in order
to evade the responsibility of getting up again.
The seconds called him early, the ten-seconds-
check reminded him it was time to be up and
doing, but Mike slept on. It was all over. The
referee, in a few terse, epigrammatic words, de-
clared Rocker Dodd the winner.
“Yah-a-h, er schlinter!” cried Benno. “Er
schlinter ! Er schlinter ! ”
The red-faced man was working his way towards
Benno through the press, pinning the clerk with
that imperious forefinger. He took Benno by a
button. “ That’s a matter o’ twenty jim you’re
owin’ me, Ned,” he said.
“ Ah, scratch!” retorted the clerk. I hat
wasn’t no bet.” ~, , ,
The sport with the perverted nose and the lad
with the thick ear were clamoring for an imme-
diate settlement of their claims. Several others,
thinking the blutf might bo worth it, put in large
demands. The red-faced man was furious and
threatening. He recited terrible things that
would happen to “our Mr. Dickson if he did
not instantly hand out twenty pounds, lhe pam
ful nature of the situation flashed upon Benno.
He had been taken too seriously. He went chalk
white, his legs wobbled foolishly. ,
“Bli’me, ’twas on’y er joke, he protested.
“ I was list talkin’. I ain’t got erbean.
“A blessed welsher!” yelled the red-faced
man. “An infernal gun ! ” cried the sport.
Twenty hands fell upon Benno. He went
down into dark night that was full of arms and
feet and broken chairs, and his only sensation was
of being a mere scrap of himself whirling in the
blackness, in which the arms, the chairs, and the
feet continually multiplied themselves. lhe
packer and Nicholas Don, ably assisted by six
policemen, effected a rescue, and what they
rescued was a weary fragment. Very reluctant
were the police to give Feathers charge of it,
for it was ragged, dusty, blood-stained, hat-
less and battered, and would have been a striking
object lesson in the dock next morning. How-
ever, the packer’s eloquence prevailed, and he
and Nick took the weary fragment away with
them, wrapped in Nick’s overcoat. Without that
coat it would not have been possible to introduce
the clerk into mixed company on a tram, what
remained of his clothes being hardly sufficient to
establish identification.
“Well, you’re ther king cop : out,” said the
packer, having delivered Benno into his sister s
hands at his own door. “If yeh was t’ go t
church ther boiler ’ud bust.”
Benno answered never a word. His splendid
spirit was broken. „
ATJTY lIVQDV
EDWARD DYSON.


An Elderly Gentleman's Speedy Cure.
JK DISORDERED liver is responsible for more illness and
** unhappiness than any other ailment, and it is really
amazing how many hundreds of people
are sufferers without being really aware
of the real cause of their trouble. Bile
Beans act upon the liver in a manner
superior to any other medicine known,
and by so doing have earned a world-
wide reputation as a cure for all
complaints arising from the defec-
tive working of that organ.
Of RK bo , n - t eig . hfc ° r weeks ba ck,” says Mr. James Weir
serfs s ’?nr[«nff Str H et ’-fwL main ’ S y dlie y- “ X became ‘out-of-
livcr’ Wlth . th ? many symptoms of a disordered
b natura y enquired as to which was the most suitable
medy for my troubles, and Bile Beans were recommended
Ihehrst few doses of the Beans improved me wonderfully
self once more. lam now seve„“ S° Kj T »*
times feeling poorly, but since using your Bile Beans I can faithfully af ori& without so ' ne '
trouble with my liver. I have been ardent of Balm for Si
therefore, well-known. If I hear of my friends coniDlainine- nf WOlr,™ “ ry ,/ e T a j’ am,
recommend Bile Beans, but give them a dose on the spot.” b k unwel ’ 1 d °n t only
NATURE’S
OWN REMEDY.
Bile Beans contain ex-
tracts from certain valu-
able herbs and roots,
which assist the digestion
and assimilation in a per-
fectly natural manner.
They exert a healthy
influence over the
stomach, liver, kidneys,
and bowels. They are a
tonic of exceptional value
to the ailing housewife,
the anaemic daughter,
and the weary bread-
winner, because they are
a med icine of distinguished
merit, and superior to all
others.
BILE
BEANS
for
BILIOUSNESS
THEY
POSITIVELY CURE
Biliousness, Headache,
Constipation, Biles, De-
bility, Liver Trouble,
Female Weaknesses, Indi-
gestion and all digestive
disorders, bad taste in the
mouth, foul breath, an-
aemia, dizziness, feelings
of uncomfortable fullness
after eating, wind pains,
sleeplessness, summer fag,
&c.
Obtainable from all
stores and chemists at
Is. ljd., or 2s. 9d. Special
Family Size (containing
three times Is. ljd.)
9
'/A
A
md/ad) drn&d d
II-Gotten Gold.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rush had set in three months be-
§ fore, and the old silence of the bush was
broken by creaking windlasses, and torn
by the babble of the tongues of many nations.
The held was counted rich, even at a time when
rich gold finds were common in Australia, A
third of the diggers were making fortunes. 01
the rest, very few were not on payable gold. The
long lines of white tents that stood out in bold
relief against the dark foliage on the hill-side
were constantly being added to, while the calico
stores and grog shops of a month ago were
already being replaced by more pretentious struc-
tures.
Old Moss Isaacs had the most substantial build-
ing on the field. Its sides of heavy ironbark
slabs, with a strongly locked and barred door of
the same timber, seemed to defy unwarrantable
entrance. Unlike the publicans and the other
storekeepers, Isaacs would not buy gold from the
diggers, but for a consideration of 2s. an ounce
he offered his store as a safe depository in
which they might put the metal until the
escort took it away. The diggers soon found
that this was more profitable than selling
locally, and Isaacs found that he got twice
as much gold deposited as he could have hoped to
buy. Besides it brought custom to the store.
Business was flourishing one afternoon, and the
excited nose of Isaacs gleamed like burnished
copper, when Morgan drifted in.
‘‘How’s your mate to-night ?” asked Isaacs.
Very low,” was the reply. “Had the new
doctor up to see him, and he said he can’t live
more than a couple of days—if he lives that
long.”
Morgan bought something for his sick mate,
and drifted out again. He was a young man, but
he always seemed to drift.
They haven’t had much luck since they came
here, said Isaacs, with a flow of sympathy.
“They’ve got a bit of gold deposited here, but
not a quarter as much as they might have had, but
for Steele getting sick. He’s not done nothing the
last three weeks. He was always as pale as a
ghost before he took to his bunk. Now that a
doctor has come he might pull,through, but he
doesn’t look like it.”
He didn’t pull through. Next evening, before
sunset, the word passed from claim to claim that
Morgan’s mate was dead. The doctor was with
him to the last, but could do nothing, he said.
A coffin was made out of slabs, and Morgan and
the doctor laid the body in it. Various offers of
assistance were declined. The general impres-
sion was that the new medico was doing his work
like a man and a brother.
Next morning at sunrise the coffin was carried
to the burial place. A couple of hundred men
followed it, and stood reverently round the grave
with uncovered heads. The doctor read the
burial service, the grave was tilled in, and Morgan
carved the name, “ Con Steele, ” on a tree at its
head.
It was just then that the crowd recognised a
vast commotion at the camp, and the centre of
the rush and bustle was Moss Isaacs’ store. And
in five minutes the air was full of the news that
Isaacs had been found gagged and bound, that
the store had been looted, and that the whole of
the deposited gold was gone. Isaacs described
how two men knocked at his door as he was going
to bed. On opening it, they seized him, took his
keys, and he tore his beard and left the rest
of the story to the imagination. The diggers
raged, and search parties scoured the country,
and in the slow progress of time the police hap-
pened on the scene, but all without finding the
least trace of the marauders or the gold.
Old Isaacs was a square man. He offered to
sell the contents of the store and divide the pro-
ceeds among those who were losers through the
robbery. Some of the diggers refused to hear of
this, but a few insisted on the sale. The stock
didn’t realise much—it was a much smaller stock
than it looked—and a week afterwards the old
storekeeper pathetically carried his swag away
from the field, a broken Hebrew.
Three months passed after Isaacs faded over the
local horizon, and the robbery was almost forgotten
except by those who were victims. Then the
doctor signified his intention of returning to
England, as his health was giving way.
After receiving a presentation from the miners,
he also left the field.
It was the very morning after his departure
that the diggers were throw'n into a new excite-
ment. Con Steele’s grave had been disturbed the
night before. In a few minutes the news spread
from end to end of the lead, and in half-an-hour
hundreds had gathered round the grave, which
looked as if it had been opened and refilled the
previous night. Some were already shovellingout
the fresh earth by way of investigation, while
those around were talking excitedly. One man
remarked it was strange that the grave should be
disturbed the night the doctor left. The hint
was eagerly grasped by the crowd, and vengeance
was vowed against the departed medico for his
supposed crime of desecrating the digger’s grave
in order to obtain a skeleton. Local ideas about
skeletons were vague but bitter. The shovels
rattled on the coffin, and it was hauled to the
surface.
“The body isn’t gone, after all,” said one of
the men who lifted the burden. “It’s too heavv
for that.” J
The lid was unscrewed, and, as it was lifted
the miners crowded round. Then they fell back
aghast. Not a man could speak. In the coffin
before them, with glassy eyes staring at the sky
was the body of the doctor.
At the same hour two horsemen were riding
through the mountains, 40 miles from the mining
camp. There they found a man waiting for them
with three horses. If such a thing as a Hebrew
bushman were possible this third man might have
passed for that individual.
“You’ve got herein good time,” said the bush
Jew. “ But where’s Dick ? ”
Neither replied. They were changing their
saddles on to the fresh horses.
“ Where’s Dick ? Has anything gone wrong
with the affair ?” he repeated.
“Better ask Con about him,” said Morgan.
“No; everything was all right. The gold is in
the pack on Dick’s horse.”
“I’ll tell you where lie is,” said Con, with an
uncanny laugh. “ He’s in my grave. When we
opened the coffin last night and took the gold out,
he said, ‘ O’ course you understand that I get half
of this, and the other half is to be divided among
the three o’ you.’ We said we understood nothin’
o’ th’ kind. Then he said he made that arrange-
ment with you. Besides, he reckoned that he was
th’ main man in the business, because he planned
everything, so he ought t’ get more’n us. Of
course, he played his part well enough ; but what
about me actin’ the corpse? Jist think o’being
screwed down in that coffin for a couple o’ hours !
It was horrible ; it seemed years ”■ '
“Well, don’t whine about it,” said the man
who wanted information. “Think of me, lying
half tiie High t with a gag in my mouth, and the
rope you fellows tied me with cutting into my
wrists and ankles ! I thought I’d die before any-
one came to the rescue. But, go on, Con.”
“ When we told Dick he could on’y get a fourth
share, the same as us, he got in a rage, an’ said
he’d take his half there an’ then, an’ go his own
road. He started sortin’ out the bags, an’, some-
how, I hit him with th’ spade : an’ we left him
there.”
“Now, then, Isaacs—let’s make a start,” said
Morgan.
And Cornelius the corpse, and Morgan his
partner, and the bush Jew headed on through the
ranges.
PAUL CUPID.
World-Chiming.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FAINTHEART heard the sighing
chimes !
Hear our chimes !
Change the times or suit the times !
Think'st thou to uproot the times t
Hear our chiming,
Suit the times !
Faintheart hearkened to the chimes,
Suit the times !
So he labored, and fulfilled
All the chiming world-song willed.
So he lived until he died,
Faint heart, small heart, satisfied.
Where he resteth no man knoweth,
Listen ! how the waste wind bloweth,
Mocking, mocking ! Toll, toll !
This echo of his puny soul.
Hear our chimes !
Suit the times or change the times I
Suit the times and they will suit thee,
Fight the times, they will refute thee,
Suit the times 1
Follow fast where range the times,
Climb thou where their temper climbs !
Hear our chiming
At thy timing
Thine own chiming to the times !
Hear our chimes,
Suit the times 1
Swiftheart heard the ringing chimes,
Hear our chimes!
Suit the times or change the times,
Soar thou, and outrange the times !
Hear our chiming,
Change the times !
Swiftheart hearkened to the chimes,
Change the times 1
So he rose, without a sword,
Hurling forth the naked word,
Calling, calling, till he died,
Rash heart, lone heart, crucified.
Where he resteth no man knoweth.
Listen ! how the wild wind bloweth,
Mocking, mocking ! Toll, toll !
This one echo of his soul.
Hear our chimes !
Suit the limes, or change the times !
Grasp occasion ere its blooming,
Hurl thy rashness on its dooming.
Change the times!
Heed not fashion, leave occasion.
Climb thou where thy fancy climbs !
Hear our pealing
At thy sealing
The unripeness of thy soul!
Hear our toll,
Change the times !
Greatheart heard the rolling chimes,
Hear our chimes !
Suit the times, and change the times !
Mark the times, and nurse thy power
While it ripens, hour on hour,
Fine in temper, keen in blade,
Purging forth the dross it had ;
Till thine arm is brawn and bone —
Now thou art a man full-grown !
Flash ! and smite with thine own sword,
Forcing home the hammered word!
Hear the chiming
Of the times !
Greatheart hearkened to the chimes ;
Bide thy times !
Then he rose, and swift outpoured
Shining glory from his sword,
So that each man liearkeneth
To the word of life and death.
Where he resteth each man knoweth,
Heed thou what the wise wind bloweth,
Pealing, pealing ! Toll, toll !
Full ripe echoes of his soul.
Hear our chimes !
Suit the times, to change the times !
Suit the times until they suit thee ;
Soar too swiftly, they'll refute thee ;
Bide thy times !
Follow fast, but Work unending
At thy making, at thy mending ;
Steel thy soul, and wall thy path
With the stones that custom hath ;
Turn the force that else will end thee
To a weapon to defend thee,
Till thy wings out-range the times.
Hear them chiming
At thy priming !
Not by swiftness, but long labor
Hast thou fashioned forth thy sabre;
Hear men hail thee, change the times /
The whole world chimes —
Changed the times!
N.S.W.
HABRY SULLIVAN.


We take pleasure in publishing the following in*
teresting letter from Mr. James Sumers, who also
very kindly sends his photograph:
/C**s
&
“Indigestion and liver complaint
troubled me greatly, and the money I
spent on various medicines was only
wasted, as they did me no good. A
friend asked me why I did not take
AYER’S
Sarsaparilla
I thought that if I did the result would
be the same as with the other , medi-
cines; but, to my great surprise, after
taking a few doses I felt really better,
and I continued until I had taken, in all,
seven or eight bottles. I wasthenable
to digest my food, and it made me feel like a new man. I now always
have with me a supply of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.” James Sumers, North
Terrace, Adelaide, S. A.
Of course you cannot enjoy good health if your stomach gives out.
You must have an appetite, must digest your food, and must keep
your liver active. Muscular strength, nervous strength, desire to be
active, and a feeling of general good health may be yours by keeping
your liver active and your blood pure. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla strengthens
the stomach and aids digestion.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla will do all this for you, but
you must insist upon getting “ AYER’S,” for it is
stronger, contains more valuable ingredients, and
cures more quickly than any other kind.
Prepared by DR. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
' 'A • . /' .
Ayer’s Pills keep the liver in a healthy condition.
FREE
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and Address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d, per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from- the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent.’s Silver Watch and Cham. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you rail satisfaction
tellfC _ *" ° ‘ 11 j~ We hffvo nrt nfuinpram
We are i
this liberal
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Fittest., Sydney
me an Lite man, xuu can ttfuui ix uuc. - . , , ~,
•e the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make yo
iberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
S'
.
F
R.
E
E
£2
7
$
\\
FREE TRIAL H
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simplv drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women,
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splem
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
ai7 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE. VIC.
*ease mention this paper.
HERE’S A NEW HELP
for the ears—a greater help than
has been before invented
THE ELECTRSCON.
It does what all otherdevices have
been trying to do. Itdoesmore. It
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
THE L. R. VERNON COY.,
60-64 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE ELECTRICON
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY,
jft GentlemarTfcavlng tried in vain ovary
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE ISEANS OF SELF-CURE, Will
forward the same, free o 2 charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
I
rT»
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Paulding- & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth,
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous ana other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. •
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by inaii in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address s HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney•
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CURE by that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RAB’ONSKI, showing’sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AGENCY, Castlereagh St.,
SYDiisriEir-
FREE
Mid
mm
%
-l -it
i ,
'Ou^eiWii
V
'iooav
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless handled
by GOOD SALESMEN.
HILL CLARK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hears the name D*~
to
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
AX/ILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata.-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
f HLOROPyHE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the'
Stamp the name of the Inventor—
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“ If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”


Use Your
Hose—Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’ll get more out
of your garden
later on more
pleasure, more
flowers, more veg-
etables—better ones, too.
Thera’s no better Hose than ours.
Sena Top
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
good. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation good.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
SRIMAULT'S INDIAN nifiARFTTFS
expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Couchs
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature
lhe acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
tor making money.
“Si I Q te . res i te i i ’ for the book entitled,
Ihe Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the seerets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Uccult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’ConneH St., Sydney, Aus.
WORTHINGTON PUMP GO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensers, Feed Water Heaters
Sill anci Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
Of uoifnoi/c/du
uo 33tu sanoojvivo
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
AM MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
©OOO3
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
rf Abb
07
AX
'llo
S>|
VOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
aiso a. SYDNEY
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
J. & J, Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
4 LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE valve nmi ■ « TT
Mines or Quarries, Weight about ISlbs. Operated by compresfeS’r, cSSTtaJ
1 alr P er minute. Only ONE WORKING PART-Strlotly ONE MAN Rook Drills T
SOLE AGENTS;
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 L 2ZZ L £?oVi-t S ,, ST -’ MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Sold
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia
No. 8X761 2-BLADE
“ PA MPA,”
Cocoa Handle 11
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle > - . 2/6
r
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
-'•M
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEST..
m,
U
ALWAYS RUN TRUE.
most generally serviceable, as well as the
most inexpensive Pulley, is without doubt tbe
Wood Split variety. The best is the DODGE
** INDEPENDENCE.” Every Pulley is balanced,
bores are standardized, and shaft compression
is perfect. Keep them dry and they last for ever.
PARKE ©. LACY COMPANY, Ltd.
A VERY LARGE STOCK
ON HAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY.
MARSHALL’S.
R. L. SCRVTTON & CO.
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
Ctd.
HAVE IN STOCK—
SOLE AGENTS—
Marshall's Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boiler*
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings.
v^" eyS , C t' WI V Wood - Shafting:, Hangers, Gun Metal Fittings,
BW®*’ L “ br,cators > Iron-Bar, Rod, Plate, steel Wheels, Pipe and
ittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requirements. , Correspondence Invited.
Motor Car
Tyres^
“LE PERSAN
Made by fHE
Siluertouin Rubber Co.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
Mine Pumps ...
w-lift pumping about the mine, such as draining shafts, galleries, raising
another, elevating tailings, slimes, etc., there is nothing equal to
THE PULSOMETER STEAM PSi fUf p discharges no exhaust steam,
, . .' „ V requires but little attention
, j l Peking or special foundation. Works as well suspended as stationary. Has no easily
deranged inside or outside mechanism. Gritty, Muddy Water does not hurt it. Simple
to install. Simple to operate. Write for Catalogue.
N. CUTHRIDCE, LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney, agents
Handy
For all rough*service, '
water from one level t
Pumps of all Hinds manufactured by
Pulsometer Engineering' Co., England,
