

flag
H2I
EXCELLENT IN
EVERY WAY
WW H B
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
POOLEY PLATFORM WEIGHING MACHINE.
Jjadley’s Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
& GO., *7 Bent St., SYDNEY
SOLE ACENTS FOR
POOLEY’S PATENT
For Every
Purpose.
AUTOMATIC GRAIN SCALES, WEIGHING MACHINES for Farmers, Squatters, Millers,
Storekeepers, Butchers, Warehouses, Mines, &0- for Illustrated Descriptive Catalogues.^
\
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON* S
CHUBB’S
PATENT LOCKS
linolite
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current
Sole Agents for Australia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Australian Buildings, Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
Ctyjtin, oM, I()GtJJ(j&Cd u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
COLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED
J. E. MACKENZIE, Manager.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENCINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
lii!
j
m
M.*.
As supplied to the ‘ P. & o.’ & ‘N.D.L.’ Steamers.
'* .
Brewed & Bottled by KAISER BREWERY
BECK & CO., BREMEN, GERMANY.
WUNDERLICH
ALL GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
r o
Resrd-
Trade Mark.
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOB THE TRADE MARK.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, &Cm/ &C
( Wholesale and Retail).
%
156-160 Elizabeth St.,
New Edition Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post free.
HELIDON SPA.
A Bottle every morning before breakfast.
RESULT: The eye is bright and skin clear. .
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol. 28,—N0. 1416.]
[Thursday, April 4, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


N£
EW
sJOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH ST..
SYDNEY.
Guy Boothby, Man of f.he Crag, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Du’nraven, The Outlook in Ireland, 9s, post 9d.
Tucker, Foreign Debt of English Literature, 7s, post 6d.
Electrical Apparatus Simply Explained, 8d posted.
Hutchinson, Long Distance Electric Power Transmission,
15s, postage Bd.
A’Beekett, Recollections of a Humorist, 15s, post Bd.
Ostwald, Individuality and Immortality-, 3s 6d, post 4d.
Gribble, Madame de Stael and Her Lovers, 12s 6d, post Bd.
Spencer, Commercial Organisation of Engineering
Factories, 12s 6d, post Bd.
Lancester, The Kingdom of Man, 4s, post 6d.
Thomas Huxley, “ Men of Science Series,” 3s, post sd.
Bailey, Care and Nursing of the Insane, Is 6d posted.'
JUST
T I-I E
ANOTHER LARGE SUPPLY.
IVEOTOJFfc 3VI AWU A E. MINTH EDITION ; Cloth 2s, Post Free.
The Best Popular Manual on the Motor. Over 71,000 Copies have already been Sold.
The RED PAGE
EPILOGUE, TO A BOOK OF VERSES
The world mourned by, like a Puritan,
With gladness and laughter beneath her ban ;
And lonely and starving there laughed a man
Building high verse, and happy.
“ There is work to do 1 ” said the world with a sigh,
But the man exultantly made reply,
“ I dream and wonder . . . and starve, maybe, I,
Building high verse, and happy! ”
“ Your verse,” said the world, “ is no use to me."
And the man looked up impatiently;
“ I’ve no time to listen to you,” said he,
Building high verse, and happy.
The world grew angered at his whim ;
She laughed herself—but her laugh was grim;
And ruthlessly she murdered him,
Building high verse, and happy.
SYDNEY.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THE BUSH
SOMETIMES in his study of the fiction
ipH of this continent there flashes upon
the critic a sudden resemblance
between the literature of two flat
countries, Australia and Russia. Is there a
psychology of deserts that produces a
Gorki, a Tolstoi, and—limping behind these
giants—a Randolph Bedford, aT. B. Clegg, a
Barbara Baynton ? No ; for the sinister
and pessimistic outlook of all these can be
paralleled by Zola in France, Hardy in Eng-
land ; and the American West does not
know the tragedy of sordidness. Yet the
dim likeness persists and. questions. ...
This gospel of the sordid is grimly preadsed
by Barbara Baynton in her long-pro-
mised novel, Human Toll (Duckworth,
Eng., per Sydney Book Club). And the
impression left by the book is mainly one of
exasperation. “What was this blocking
the tallow-scoop ? ” the author asks in her
first line ; and all through the story the
reader struggles to discover—perhaps from
a reprehensible ignorance—what is a tallow-
scoop, and why it was blocked, and what
blocked it, and what connection a blocked
tallow-scoop has with the plot, and .. . For
it is not only the elusive tallow-scoop
that exasperates, but the lack of focus that
blurs and leaves unexplained most of the
author’s characters and incidents. The
first chapter needs re-reading to discover
what it is all about, whom the people are, and
what their relations to each other. Nebulous
and unfocussed, the characters drift in and
out of the scenes ; they come, they pass,
leaving us vainly guessing, striving to picture
them, to recognise them, to clothe them with
actuality. Yet the disjointed scenes are
vivid and rememberable, flung at us with a
vigorous carelessness, depicted in a kind of
hasty shorthand, the gaps in which the
reader has painfully to fill in for himself.
Mi’s. Baynton feels vividly enough, but,
blinded by her impression, cannot give more
than the shadows in the background. Thus
she creates an atmosphere that, despite the
exasperation of the reader, remains a very
real thing. If Barbara Baynton is a symbol-
ist, she has marvellously succeeded in the
overwhelming impression she gives of a
tragic background from which the impalpable
figures in the foreground scarcely emerge.
Such a 'novel has been written by Gorki, and
the type must be recognised as a form—a
high and difficult form—of art. After all,
in recalling many novels, is it not the back-
ground, and not the personality of the
characters, that often remains, in remem-
brance ? But Mrs. Baynton is palpably in-
terested in her heroine, and yet—possibly
unconsciously, possibly owing to woman’s
inherent inability to express himself—instead
of a heroine she has given us the Bush.
The book is really a collection of detached
scenes, the life of a bush-orphan in a sinister
setting. Human Toll bears the impress of
an autobiography, loosely held together by a
plot of hidden treasure that is lostsight of long
before the end of the book. The character of
the girl is convincingly sketched ; but that
of Andrew, who loves her, remains vaguely
hovering beyond the reader’s consciousness.
“ Boshy,” the “ old lag,” with his grotesque
adoration of his dead master’s child, while
appropriating his dead master’s boots, re-
mains a figure of pathetic futility. There is
a grim pathos in. the scene where the little
girl cunningly persuades Boshy to crow like
a cock, and laugh like a jackass, in her child’s
endeavor to wake her dead father. And the
callous cruelty of childhood is remorselessly
depicted in a scene where Ursula tortures a
hornet and a blue-bottle fly; yet all the
horror of the incident of the bleeding of the
pig does not detract from the skill with which
the child’s thoughts are dissected.
Mr. Stein's foot, pressed into the pig’s flank,
was levering the last blood and breath through
its gashed throat into a dish held under it by
Mrs. Stein.
“Run, gedt a spoon, Mina,” said her mother.
As she returned with it, “Take this,” handing
the dish, “ andt mindt you don’dt let it thicken,
lazy pones.”
The pig, to be scalded, had to be raised to the
trestles, and Ursula was terrified that it might
not be dead. v
“ dome, Mina ! ” all called.
“You stir while I go,” said Mina, handing
Ursie the spoon. Involuntarily Ursie drew back.
“ I couldn’t,” she said, with white lips.
Mina let the spoon fall into the dish, and ran
to help.
When she returned, she dived for the dis-
appeared spoon, and went on with her work,
alternating the movement from right hand to left,
taking the same occasion to slip a lolly into her
mouth from her apron pocket.
In sullen discontent Ursie stood, for why should
Mina be taller and stronger than she ? Her brown
eyes darkened, and her bloodless lips, though
trembling, wealed into a determined line.
“Now I’ll stir,” she offered... and, looking
away, took the spoon.
Round and round it went, and when it clicked
against the tin dish Ursie felt an electric shock.
Her brows, eyelashes, and eyes showed definitely
hard on her colorless face. Her nostrils, filled
with the steaming odor, dilated ominously.
Soon her movements became spasmodic, and a
few splashes stood out like crimson beauty spots on
her bleached face. Still round, though slower,
went the spoon. Suddenly it dropped, but her
hand stirred space, till blindly lurching forward,
with an inward heave, she plunged both hands
into the warm blood. Partially conscious, she
knew someone laid her on her back, and she, a
willing sacrifice, turned, so that, like the pig, the
blood might be pumped thoroughly from her side.
Quite reasonably, she considered the cold water
thrown over her useless for scalding her. Ah,
but someone was raising her, so they were going
to lay her on the trestles, and she not dead. She
opened her eyes, took a deep breath, then limply
and contritely placed both hands and arms round
Andrew’s neck.
To parallel the brutal detail in this seene we
must turn to the opening chapters of Hardy’s
Jude, the Obscure.
The growth of this child, adrift amid the
terrors of ignorance, a-wander in a dreary
and inexplicable world, vaguely conscious of
a life unattainable outside, is depicted with
a strength and an insistence upon the sordid
that impresses, even if it cannot please. The
relations between the girl and Andrew, her
boy-lover, are unconvincing, and but half-
explained is the marriage between Andrew
and Mina, who could eat lollies while she
stirred the warm pig’s blood. The plot dies
of inanition when we find Ursula inexplicably
living with Mina on the section that saw
Ursula’s childhood, while Andrew disappears*-,
and Mina attempts to murd. _• her child.
In a scene of gruesome realism Ursula rescues
the child and flees with it from the murder-
ous mother. And Ursula gets “bushed”
with the sickly child, which dies in her arms.
She buries it, then fears to leave it, disinters
it, and, carrying the dead body, she gradually
goes mad with thirst. Mrs. Baynton meticu-
lously and mercilessly paints in all the horrors
of that tragedy ; and the book ends in one
tremendous scene, for which apparently the
volume was written. The mad girl sees in a
tangle of shredded bark upon a gum, with
white boughs extended' in the shape of
a cross, a picture of Christ crucified. A clot
of crimson gum adds the last touch of realism
to the girl’s frenzied imagination.
Bat there was neither sign nor sound till the
crows cawed. “ Cor-pus Chris-ti ! Cor-pus
Chris-ti!” “Body of Christ!” she invoked.
Yes, there, on that tree, begotten of what Bush-
mother, hung the crucified Christ—eyeless, with
a-tangle of wild hair and beard. His white arms
extended crosswise, and His bare body glistening
bloodlessly, save for the red blood that had
trickled and clotted from His wounded side.
She laid the child between them and knelt:
appeal in her upraised hands : in the strained
eyes sympathetic, reverent awe ; but her droughty
mouth was dumb. As from emotion, the droop-
ing spearheads of the sentinel leaves quivered,
she also, but Christ kept silent and still; she
lowered her eyes. Along His glittering bare skin
a bulldog ant crawled intently toward the speared
side. Her heart bounded indignantly. How dare
it? With trembling tenderness for Him, she
drew it off. It stung her—no matter ; but had
it stung Christ ? And she laid her burnt swollen
lips where its hold had been on Him, then again
raised her eyes to His. But He could not see
with those sightless eyes. Ah ! the awful crows !
They were there, hovering over her head, had not
lost sight of her since she fell first. Ever and
ever should she stay by Him and keep them off.
And the flies! Oh, horrible! horrible [—watch-
ing intently those eyeless sockets. Had she, like
poor Mary, come too late ? Hastily she broke off
a bough to beat back those buzzing horrors.
In the greatness of her work she forgot her
droughty pain. Always and always she would
stay beside Him. None should touch Him. No
soldier dare again thrust a spear in His side.
Stay—His side ! What flowed ? Blood—and—
water —flowed —water ! Her mouth gaped.
Blood—and—water! Water! Violently her
heart beat; stealthily she took a step nearer the
wounded side, mouthing something, Back a step,
then again forward. Maddeningly fierce was the
struggle. No, no, dear Christ; fear not, for she
would not drink His precious blood. Sobbing, she
fell at His feet.
That is well done—horribly well done.
On the whole, we are rather sorry that it
oocurred to Barbara Baynton to do it. For
is not this a perverse picture of our sunny,
light-hearted, careless land ? Mrs. Bayn-
ton’s palette has only the darker tints.
We still await the great artist who will see
Australia steadily, and see it whole.
THE PERSONAL NARRATIVE
The Russo-Japanese war is making literature
as well as history. The personal narrative is the
modern form that battle literature takes. The
vastly 1 extended range of modern warfare, and the
utter inability of one man’s limited observation to
explain the tactical meaning of apparently con-
fused and contradictory evolutions of armies,
have already transformed the war-correspondent
from a military e«pert into a painter of vivid per-
sonal impressions. Thus it is that the actual
combatants—mere amateurs of the pen —both in
the Transvaal fracas and the Russian-Japanese
war, have done better work in literature than
the professional expert war-correspondent. Now
the naval aspect of the reoent war is being given
to the world by means of the personal narrative.
Two recent books of this character are worth
notice.
The Russian may not know how to win a Tsu-
shima, but he can write about it with a literary
feeling that is apparently impossible to the
formality of the Japanese mind. These two
books, Before Port Arthur in a Destroyer, and The
Battle of Tsushima (both from John Murray,
London, per Sydney Book Club) illustrate this
racial literary contrast. The former book is
allegedly a translation from the Spanish of a per-
sonal diary of a Japanese naval officer ; the latter is
a plain statement by Captain Vladimir Semenoff,
one of the survivors of the Russian flagship. The
Japanese officer had a share in all the adventures
going; he seems too lucky to be true. Beginning
as a commander of a destroyer, he took a pro-
minent part in the first Port Arthur torpedo
attack; he commanded one of the ships that
attempted to seal up the harbor, and was its sole
survivor ; he captured prizes and was congratu-
lated by Togo with a regularity seemingly only
possible to the hero of a boy’s adventure-book;
and he ended up by receiving command of a
cruiser. Doubts upon the authenticity of the
“ diary ” are cast by the author’s remarkable free-
dom from mistakes ; at the least, one suspects it
was revised in the light of later knowledge ; he
saw and knew too much, and he does not disguise
his merit.
•‘As luck, in the long run, only goes to people
endowed with good judgment, I believe that my
success is owing entirely and exclusively to my
excellent manoeuvring.”
Occasionally we come across a shrewd bit of
criticism of Admiral Togo. “All the officers are
complaining of the Admiral. ... It is to be hoped
that the inactivity of the Admiral that night will
not be repeated. ... I do not think that Nelson
with his squadron Would have remained inactive
before Port Arthur, as Togo did.”
At the sinking of the Russian flagship by con-
tact with mines—which, of course, our hero had
a hand in laying—he prosaically remarks, “ Thus
perished the Petropaiiovsk 1 What a pity that
we cannot find out who laid the mine which pro-
duced so good a result.”
&
But the plain statement of Capt. Semenoff is a
different kind of work, worth a dozen of the
Japanese hero’s alleged diary—worth, indeed, a
d izen modern romances. Semenoff’s account of
the swift and awful fate of the Buvoroff at Tsu-
shima is written with a simplicity that brings
home to the reader the almost inconceivable
horrors of a battleship under the hail of modern
projectiles.
“ It seemed as if these were mines, not shells,
which were striking the ship’s side, and falling on
the deck. ... In addition to this, there was the
unusual high temperature and liquid flame of the
explosion, which seemed to spread over every-
thing. I actually watched a steel plate catch fire
from a burst. Of course the steel did not burn,
but the paint on it did. ... At times it was impos-
sible to see anything with glasses, owing to every-
thing being so distorted with the quivering,
heated air.”
Semenoff notes two grave mistakes on the part
of Togo that, had the Japanese been opposed by
a modern fleet, might have resulted in his defeat.
The first was his suddenly reversing his course
“ in succession,” making it necessary for all his
ships to pass in order over the point on which the
leading ship had turned ; this point was, so to
speak, stationary in the water, affording the
Russians an ascertained range and aim. In addi-
tion, the manoeuvre took fifteen minutes to
complete, and all that time the vessels
that had already turned masked the fire of
those which were still coming up. Fifteen
minutes lost at the beginning of an action which
was practically over in the first hour 1 The
bad aim and—especially—the worse shells of the
Russians saved him. On the second occasion,
when Togo gave the order to his fleet to turn
“together,” Kamimura with his cruisers ap-
parently failed to make out the signal, and passed
the battleships, again masking their fire.
On the disabled and burning Russian flagship
that still fought and refused to sink all was
horror almost indescribable. Yet Semenoff con-
trives, by his matter-of-fact narrative, to convey
some faint picture of that hell. He remarks,
to account for his apparent mental detach-
ment, that the condition of things was “so
fearful as not to be in the least terrible.”
“Word had been received from the engine-
room that the men were being suffocated and
rapidly falling out, as the ventilators were
bringing down smoke instead of air ; soon there
would be no men left to work the engines.” The
rescue of the wounded and stupefied Rozhdestven-
sky is thrillingly told. As there was not a boat left
to transfer him to a Russian torpedo-boat, which
had arrived from nowhere, the admiral was
lowered, almost thrown, direct upon the deck of
the little frail vessel as she rose on a wave and
swung in to the mutilated flagship. Before leav-
ing his vessel (with the prearranged intention of
transferring his flag to another vessel) the dazed
admiral gave the order, “Collect the staff but
it was only possible to “ collect ” two. The rest ?
“The mess deck was in darkness (the electric
light had gone out), and was full of suffocating
smoke. We called them by name ; but received
no answers. ... It is probable that all who were
in the closed compartments under the armored
deck, where the ventilators took smoke instead of
air, gradually becoming suffocated, lost conscious-
ness and died. . . . No one came up from below.
Of the 900 men composing the complement of the
Suvoroff, it would not be far wrong to say that at
this time there remained alive only those few who
were gathered together in the lower battery and
on the windward embrasure.”
As Semenoff was one of the few who escaped
with the admiral, we have to turn to the Japanese
report for the flagship’s glorious end. “In the
dusk, when our cruisers were driving the enemy
northwards, they came upon the Suvoroff alone
heeling over badly and enveloped in flames and
smoke. The division of torpedo-boats was at once
sent to attack her. Although much burned and
r stnll on fire although she had been subjected to
so many attacks, having been fired at by all the
fleet (in the full sense of the word)—although she
had only one serviceable gun—she still opened
fire, showing her determination to defend herself
to the last moment fif her existence—so long, in
fact, as she remained above water. At length,
about 7 p.m., after our torpedo boats had twice
attacked her, she went to the bottom.”
This is the tribute of the Yellow to the White.
AUTOBIOGRA I'll IGAL.
The biographer of Richard John Seddon is not
yet, though the life and personality of that oig
man should furnish the materials for an extremely
interesting study in human nature. Some day,
when we ean see the man through the proper
perspective of time, an Australasian historian will
give us the living man. James Drummond, whose
Life and Work of 11. J. Seddon is published by
Whitcombe and Tombs, M.L., merely gives us
the dry bones of facts, occasionally discreetly
covered by fiction. Drummond meant his volume
to appear in the life-time of his subject, and
while Seddon was alive it was well for a
critic to be judicious in his facts. The Lift has
the doubtful advantage of having been com-
piled with the direct assistance of Richard John
Seddon: it is exactly the sort of autobiography
that the old autocrat would have written himself.
The most interesting portion is the little-known
and legend-bestrewn history of Seddou’s political
youth, when all the components of his greatness
were inchoate beneath his crude and rough ex-
terior, when all his aims and aspirations were
jostling at cross-purposes, and when his ambition
was bounded by a place upon a road-board and
the management of a store. Here Drummond has
collected many incidents and myths upon which
the future biographer may more skilfully build.
Seddon knew nothing of literature; his ex-
cursions into fiction were apparently limited
to Hansard and reports of royal commis-
sions. Drummond dismisses this side of
his character in one paragraph. “He learnt
‘May’s Parliamentary Practice’ almost by heart,
and other standard works on the practical part of
parliamentary work were among ‘he. few books
he cared to study."
His first' speech to the electors at Hokitika
betrays a soundness of political ideals that the
exigencies of politics did not always allow him in
later life to live up to. “I maintain,” he said
then, “ that this colony has been pursuing an un-
sound policy. Something ought to be done to
check the quantities of imported goods, and to
foster local industries. With that object in view,
it will be better for the people to pay a little more
for a year or two. The sum of over £1,000,000 has
been paid for locomotives that might have been
made in the oolony. . . . The colony, instead of
importing Gatling guns with which to fight
the Maoris, should wage war with locomotives.”
He advocated restriction of the immigration of
the Chinese, and strongly held out for secular
education. And we have the characteristic
Eicture of the candidate “driving furiously ”
etween Kumara and Hokitika, personally col-
lecting his constituents and shepherding them to
the poll. He continued to drive furiously all
through his life whenever there was a vote to be
collected.
Drummond depicts the gradual expansion in
Seddon’s interests from West Coast provincialism
to Maoriland patriotism, and so on to Preferential
Tariffs, and the belief that he personally was
General Manager of the Empire. But Drum-
mond, while giving in admirable detail the
story of the growth of the Liberal party,
tlie initiation of Labor legislation, and the
banking crisis, carefully omits mention of the
fact that there was another possible claimant for
the Premiership upon Ballance’s death. While—a
characteristic touch that we hope the old man
was permitted to see in proof—there is a descrip-
tion of his “royal welcome” at Euston station at
the time of the Coronation. “ Two royal car-
riages were in waiting, each drawn by a pair of
horses, and with coachmen and footmen wearing
the royal scarlet liveries. . . . He was disappointed
at not having a little more time for a chat with
several Maorilanders who met him on the station
platform, but there were the royal carriages wait-
ing, with the men in their gorgeous liveries,
attracting much notice, and he set off at once. It
rather amused him to travel.in such state, and to
see the sentries at one place present arms as the
party passed ; but he felt he was being given a
very pleasant welcome to England.”
There, unconsciously, Drummond has given us
a vivid picture of the man. “There were the
royal carriages waiting ! ” The biographer,
despite a pardonable tendency toward eulogy of
a very human man, has done good pioneer work
in a remarkably interesting field. The chief
charm of the book, however, is that it might have
been written by Seddon himself.
♦
“ M.M.” : Came across a par on the Red Page
24/l/’O7 in which Constance Barnicoat (Who is
she? not a “colonial,” or she wouldn’t have
written such utter “stuff”) sums up the read-
ing of colonial girls. I have had to do with all
sorts and conditions of girls, and have never found
one who preferred boys’ hooks of escapes and
adventure. Colonial girls like good novels with
plenty of love yarn (and why shouldn’t they .').
Connie bewails “At seventeen the colonial girl
puts away the books of Mrs. L. T. Mhade and
scorns girls’ magazines.” That’s true, and the
reason is that most girls had that lady’s woks as
rewards when battling for marks at Sunday
School and know them “by membery.” As for
the Girls' Own —suppose that is the magazine the
“deah English gals” are allowed to scan the
Australian has to take it and look cheerful at the
annual prize-giving of her school or college, but 1
have never heard of a girl reading the harmless
production. As for the Strand being the favorite
magazine, the lady must be joking. Wait tin
I get the Lone Hand, I’ll make it my business
to send Constance Balmybrain a specimen of what
colonial girls do like to read. [Constance Barm-
coat is a Maorilander.]
Sisley’s, Ltd., make good their claim to pro-
duce “beautiful books.” In their panel-book
series they have initiated a delightful issue of
tastefully printed classics. For half-a-crown you
may get Don Juan , or Ovids Art of Love, or
Sterne’s Sentimental Journey, with illustrations,
a cover “ stamped in 22-carat gold,” and a book-
plate. Thomas B. Mosher, Portland, Maine,
U.S.A., the publisher of The Bibelot, w ierem is
always to be found some rare reprint, also charms
the artistic eve with hiswolumes. Ihe catalogue
of “ The Mosher Books ” is, itself, a work of art.
The Bibelot and the catalogue should be in the
hands of all book-lovers.


A NICE SELECTION OF PRESENTS
n
* j v
m
mMm
■
m
«p
■W.,,
m
m
I;
mm
M
33
m
;
A n
SSS»SS^
•K
■
£Sv
SE
13 .^
'
1
1
m
Wi.
i
/
mi
;
HI
WHisSS
' *- l> *'
Chosen from “The Buyer’s Encyclopaedia,” Lassetter’s General Catalogue.
The New Edition, 1000 Illustrated Pages, will soon be ready. Write now,
and mention this paper in order to secure early copy,
F. LASSETTER <& CO., Ltd., Cheapside, SYDNEY
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, APR] 4, 1907.


Also KANGAROO, WALLarv
OPOSSUM, <fc c . ’
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
to wmVhi! /?l ! ei ' dud fco b y. our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
i and to verv best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
their H I ',f a i are off nT d f by t - hl , s 9 0,n P a,1 y to WHEAT growers for free storage of
en 1 ul 1 particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
We are on the SPOT
withCrystaiate Billiard Bales
AICOCW £
The •
Only
Subsrilufe
for •
Ivory
IS 5 •
£UZAB£MST
Me z,a.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
‘‘Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
<£? JZ?
Sydney Showrooms —
-422 GEORGE STREET
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition.
Is. HOOK Ol l ' NATURE and Illus-
trated MARRIAGE OIIIDK by Dr
Faulkner, illustrated with over f>o
genuine 1904 edition,,
b.wl covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Piping Hot ; Rush
koh the Spoil ; and all Zola's, Is Gil
each. \ kntrii.oqitlsm Made Easy, Is.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2sA
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Thk Wikk Thf
Husband, and Thk Lovkr, Is ; posted is 3d"
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted is 3d
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hkptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
r iRST Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Boot,making and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustaye Is •
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy', Is. How «o Vamp on Piano Is
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is ’
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. The Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffm an s. New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business
t UTURiTY, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.’
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the (Jta«'e,
P?\,„ 0 « DS A m T °"' L,,V ’ K ' 28 M - DR - EOOTUC’S
Plain Home lai.k, 20th ,Century edition, verv
latest, 1243 jia<res, over 400 colored plates and
ensrrayinifs,,/s (j«I posted. Sappiio, genuine, Is. Mid-
"l\k,s Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aims-
toi le. 3s od. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Piiren-
.oi.ogy, is. Lover's Letter. Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Snow, jokes, speeches, etc., is. Money Making
Secrets, Is- " omen’s secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Kasy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren
is; Post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.’
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to anv address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St* 9 Melbourne
IiUWHaMdiH
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
btomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
hour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DTNNEFORDS
magnesia
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
GOLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &0.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches,, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our Isew Life Vegetable Pills (Formulae printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
ls,ted ‘ Thls ls the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm",""arid we will present £'Q in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don t delay, it costs yon nothing - to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
Free
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DSFY COMFBTITIOKT.
WTN'MS -® Brands Only of
&
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS,
SPIRITS.
CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6dL from “
Bulletin ’* Office
The
EDWARDS’ «
HARLENE
sizE4e
WARDS
m
fOK
.
FOR
THE
HAIR
The Great Hair Producer 8 Restorer
The Finest Pressing. -
Specially Prepared and Delicately Perfumed.
A Luxury and a Necessity to every Modern Toilet.
Restores, Strengthens, Beautifies and Promotes the Growth
of the Hair. Prevents it Falling Off and Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Cure for Baldness.
I/-, 2/6 & 4/6 per bottle, from Chemists and Stores.
95 8 96, High Holborn, London, w.c. )
CARBIDE OF CALCIUM
Regular Shipments
The Trade Supplied
Incandescent Acetylene Burners, with Mantle, Complete, 5s each.
ACETYLENE MOTOR, BUOOY, BICYCLE AND TABLE LAMPS, CAS FITTiNCS, &c. B*-Senb for Catalogue.
BRANDT BROS., 236 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
and 197, 422, and 424 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
For Kangaroo and Big Game
PEG
.44 C. F. W. Cartridges are known by all experienced
sportsmen to be reliable. They are specially
adapted for, and tested in, Marlin, Winchester,
Remington and other standard rifles. When pur-
chasing cartridges, specify those made by the
UNION METALLIC CARTRIDGE COMPANY
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. salt:
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—Sm Capsule marked ENO’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without it you hay a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Pnpartd only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ' WORKS, LONDON, UNO.,
by J. c. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c. t everywhere .
KS
©MOTEE'S o°w™ POULS
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Everyman and woman should know that Liver Disorders
iniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills
The Public ere cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of


Doctors, lawyers, ministers, bank-
ers, merchants, business men every-
where, all rely upon
Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral, whenever
they have a cough
or a cold. They
keep it on hand, at
their home, at their
place of business.
They carry it with
them when they
travel. They say there is nothing so
bad for a cough as coughing, and
there is nothing so good for a
cough as
Mger’s
'Cherry Sectoral
It is the best remedy in the world
for coughs, colds, croup, whooping-
cough, influenza, and all throat and
lung troubles.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Beware of them and of
so-called “Genuine Cherry Pectoral.”
Be sure you get AYER’S Cherry
Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from oar Coventry factory
to an.> one, on ten days' approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Deiovered
r ree to any port in the World,
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Lar e * roflt.
easily made. Write a*. once, using hufficient posture,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., m .wo LIVERPOOL.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
cs
“While teething my little
Thomas suffered greatly,
and became very thin and
ill. Scott’s Emulsion proved
to be just what was needed
to build him up. His
flesh is now firm and solid,
he sleeps and eats well,
and this wonderful change
is due entirely to Scott’s
Emulsion. I shall always
keep a bottle in the
house.”
(Mrs.) J. FELLEW.
THE
EVIDENCE
from 33, Harris St., Pyrmont, N.S.W.,
July 19, 1906.
Teething-
a wonderful change
The Reason WHY
he grew Bonny
Cod liver oil is extraordinarily full of
nourishment, but the oil must be of
the best quality and it must be made
digestible, or it can do but little good.
None but the finest Lofoten (Nor-
wegian) oil is ever used in Scott’s,
and this is broken up so finely by the
original Scott process
that the stomach, how-
ever fatigued, can easily
absorb it. The lime in
Scott’s provides the
material so often lack-
ing in the baby system
for strong, straight,
white teeth.
TRADE MARK
to C m«cinf s rom a “ Chem ‘ StS and dMl “»
Scott’s
EMULSION
To)
IRISH
I NOIONINNOa 3DW030
I'saiSS
ssbwHsmi
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
/j/i
There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION.”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, Indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
any Pams or Aches. In cases of Paralysis, Locomotor Ataxia, Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Faa.
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser.
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Vibrator in the world that gives direct true vibration
We are receiving- daily unsolicited testimonials from all parts of the country. You can use it yourself and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians’
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/t, and Postage, Packing, etc.” I/6M Taking-
altogether 16/6. POST P RilE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tellyou all about it
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE__OOOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Workss Birmingham, England,
These series ol
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
(Kegd.)
ltd
7.
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY and
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:—“You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.’’
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
By Royal Warrant
Purveyors to
His Majesty The
King: and
Royal Family.
MOIR’S
tg New Season’s ”
HERRINGS.
SUPERIOR QUALITY GUARANTEED.
TRY THEIR . ,
“ Herrings in Anchovy Sauce,”
“Findon Haddocks,”
“Herrings a la Sardines.”
ASK FOR and SEE THAT YOU GET
MOIR’S
Pure Pickles.
THEY ARE A TREAT.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, Limited,
London, Aberdeen, Seville.
SYDNEY AGENCY: 47 MACQUARIE STREET,
CIROULAR QUAY.
[2
Mak’&s fheSKIN
r CLEAR & POSY
TRY IT ~
ATOUR EXPENSE,.
DAINTY SAMPLE BOX. containing Jar of Creme j
Simon. Boa of Powder, and Cake of Soap, *enl on J
receipt of 3d. in stamps to cover postage.
JOUBERT & JOUBERT. Melbourne; CLAUDE HEAL If A CO.. 0* Fill SL. J
Sydney; or LOUIS JOUBEKT. 519 Wellington St.. Perth. AGENTS. "J
NATURE’S NSK
PERFECT FOOD
f Plasmorv. ||
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
OF
FRESH MILK IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS G DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR FOR
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits
MAKE A DELIGHTFUL
MEAL.
PLASMON
Milk Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE.
AsK your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Little England.
From a little island shrouded
In the sea-fog of the north,
From a tiny cottage crowded
Her brood of boys came forth.
She shook off their embraces,
And she hastened them away ;
To the world’s forgotten places
She sent them out to play.
“ I have work to do, at present,”
She laughed ; and they raced from sight. '
But they found their playgrounds pleasant,
And they came not home at night.
For they met new fates and chances,
And they felt new hopes to urge,
And they found their own romances
On the waste lands of the Verge.
While she—too proud to mourn them—
Who had set their feet to roam,
The mother who had borne them
Bided, desolate, at home.
But, at last, with a sudden yearning
The hearts of her brood were filled ;
And the mother saw returning
Her truant sons, self-willed.
They came ; and the dim eyes brightened
As they leapt the garden wall;
But she shrank, with a gladness frightened—
Her babes had grown so tall!
And her aching heart besought them,
And her eyes were blind with tears
As, trembling, their toys she brought them
She had treasured through the years.
But they struck her with men’s laughter
At the playthings she had kept;
And they kissed her close—but after
They went —though they knew she wept.
No more might that cottage hold them,
It had shrunken strangely small,
Though the mother’s arms still would fold them,
And her heart had room for all!
So they went—with a passing sadness
And a foot for a moment stayed ;
But they turned to their work with gladness
In the new worlds they had made.
And the door gapes on its hinges,
And the patient eyes are dim ;
But her sons are out on the Fringes,
Patrolling their Empire’s Rim !
For their hopes are wider, other,
And they grow not young again.
Still she waits her babes—the mother;
But they come back bearded men !
N.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A Ballad of Dark Nights.
’When dusk has deepened, and sunset glows
Have faded and vanished from out the sky,
And the troop of dead sins stirs to life and goes,
Mean and malevolent, slouching by—
Then into limbo furtively fly
All the blithe hosts of the gladsome day ;
Stricken and sullen, our spirits sigh,
Damned in the darkness for ever and aye.
When night is heavy with scents of rose
(Fragrances fine in a world awry),
It’s then in the murk that we come to blows
Sudden and savage, my soul and I.
The ghouls watch the combat, delighted, and spy
All the weak spots in my futile clay,
And I’m smitten remorselessly hip and thigh,
Damned in the darkness for ever and aye.
There’s a madness of midnight compact of foes
Vicious and venomous. Lurking nigh,
Beelzebub waits with a legion of those
Goblins of dread that our dreams descry.
Futile our queries of Whence and Why.
Odds overpowering in grim array
Mock us, and vainly for help we cry,
Damned in the darkness for ever and aye.
Satan ! at last in your keep we lie —
Why should we soundly whimper orprav,
Since it is written that we must die
Damned—in the darkness for ever and aye l
MAOKILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
A Still Night.
Here lurk the shadows of the windless street,
Here is a wide set window, lamplight red,
Here comes the drag of slow unhurried feet
By railed-in gardens where the breeze is dead,
Where dusty buds unfurl the flag of Spring,
Burns a pale gas-flame straight, unflickering.
The leaf that has survived to be the mock
Of baby green (the pledge of summer’s love),
Drops, where at dawn the chirping sparrows flock
I o gossip in the thick banana grove ;
But even that, so close the spell is laid,
Scarce any rustle in its downfall made.
A sweep of sky with white unwavering stars,
A chequered street, half shadow and half light,
And where the red lamp throws its slanting bars
Across the still enchantment of the night,
Like haunting pixie music, sweet and thin,
There steals the tinkle of a mandolin.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


r
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
COCOA
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says *'l find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other."
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
Whether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY'S COCOA occupies the chief place •
because it is ABSOLUTELY BURE. It gives substantial
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.”— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
I
ffilri
INCORPORATED
&
J 53.0„
Piitp a£
fa fa tljat
ad
sews
£^L
J9&Z-
-/y General Du'ector & Secretary.
Devonshire St., Harley Street, London. W.
“THE LANCET” Laboratory Report is conclusive evidence of the value of
44 Eumenthol Jujubes ’* as an Antiseptic and Prophylactic*
"THE LANCET ” says : ‘‘ln the experiments tried the Jujubes proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is Creosote.”
‘‘THE PRACTITIONER” says: ‘‘Useful in tansilitis, pharyngitis, and similar
ailments.”
‘‘THE MEDICAL PRESS AND CIRCULAR” says: ‘‘These Jujubes should be of
special service to lecturers, public singers, and speakers, and indeed to all who are
called upon to use their voices frequently for prolonged periods.”
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
SPECIAL LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
mm
m
%
Hn«i
//
/
?m
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty The King:.
BOVRIL
contains the whole of the valuable stimulating and nourishing
properties of beef and is therefore of great value after acute
illnesses of all kinds.
Whenever appetite is poor try a cup of Bovril.
MSg
$
Sold bv
All Jewellers
ABk to see our PHOTOGRAPHIC CARD of New
Watches, just forwarded to every JEWELLER
in the Colonies.
7\ Certificate. Given With Each Watch.
992
iß^*
f /
S>
rotme® hahs
Estai)'
175 a
BUS
HOTEL
91ETROFOLE
•^-SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay>
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
'iniihiniiiMiiii
a-oimnn
tfIMVIUW
AVENARIUS
WILL RID YOUR HOUSE OF
WHITE ANTS
AVENARIUS is not only a sure cure for WHITE ANTS,
but the best wood preservative known* It makes weak
timber strong, and doubles the life of the best timber*
ALL STOREKEEPERS.
WHOLESALE:
E. RICH & CO. LTD., SYDNEY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 28.—N0. 1416.
THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 1907.
Price 6d.
GOING TO THE RESCUE.
FAT (at the top of the Bonnie Vale shaft): “DO YOUR BEST, MY FRIEND. I HEAR THAT CHEAP LABOR IS IN
DANGER OF DROWNING DOWN BELOW.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the 00., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address fetters.
Correspondents to Tiie Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
'The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Jllaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
aiiy interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.: —Brewer and Co.
A yents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. xlhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
SuTZ&x'xlleZz/n.
THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 1907.
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL FARCE.
When the State election campaign opens in
N.S.W. it is to be hoped that some party will
make a loud protest against any further continua-
tion of the Federal capital farce. It was an
amusing farce at one period of its existence, but
it has grown wearisome, and it is time to turn out
the lights, and lock the door, and sack the
dreary boss humorist, so that all parties may
go home to bed. For something like three years
Australia has waited for the N.S.W. Parliament
to do something, and nothing has been done,
though a great many foolish things have been
said. The Australian Parliament has selected
the capital site. Its selection was strictly in
accordance with the terms of the Constitution.
Before it moved in the matter it applied to the
N.S.W. State Government for advice, and asked
the N.S.W. Parliament to nominate sites that it
regarded as suitable, and after very long waiting
and much incivility it was informed that the State
Government and Parliament took no interest
whatever in the matter. After much more
application on the part of the Federal authority,
and much silence—broken here and there by a
brief and grumpy communication—on the part of
the N.S.W. State Government, the State authority
was induced at last to appoint a high official to in-
spect and report on possible locations; and the
Australian Parliament accepted the locality
which that official described as most suitable, and
passed an Act authorising the establishment of a
Federal city thereabouts. And then the deadlock
set in, and has continued ever since.
* * * *
The site selected for the Australian capital
seems, to anyone who takes the trouble to inspect
it, almost an ideal one. It is splendidly healthy
—which is an essential. It is not on the coast,
and the mountains make it easily defensible; and
Australia doesn’t want its capital where the first
few shells from a hostile fleet can scatter the
Government and Parliament into the bush, nor
does it want to plant its Treasury, its Federal
arsenal, its public offices, its military head-
quarters, and all the machinery of administration
■on an open beach to betaken by thefirstenemy that
sends a few boat-loads of soldiers ashore. The
site lies in an empty region, the transfer of which
to the Australian Government will deprive
N.S.W. of little population, and of no net revenue
at all, for the Monaro district costs more than it
yields. The present emptiness of Monaro should
be a special recommendation, for the need to popu-
late our blank spaces, to practise the great virtue
of decentralisation, to do whatever is possible to
prevent the undue concentration of our people
in one or two huge cities, to go “back to the
land ” and so on, have been preached by great
patriots like John Haynes till it really seems time
something was done in the way of translating
faith into works. The proposed capital is in
N.S.W., as specified by the Constitution. It is
situated not less than 100 miles from Sydney, as
specified by the. Constitution. The area asked for
is not less than 100 miles, as specified by the
Constitution—in fact, the intense adherence to
the Constitution is almost monotonous. As
a few side issues, the site is nearer in a
straight line to Sydney than to Melbourne ; and
much nearer by any possible railway route. There
is close at hand a miserably unprofitable railway
leading to Sydney ; by a very small extension of
this line the proposed capital can be connected
with Sydney, and then the access of population
and the increase of business will make this miser-
ably unpayable line a valuable asset for N.S.W.
All the sea-trade of the capital must either go to
Sydney or to another N.S.W. port at Twofold
Bay. The site of the proposed Federal city is
alongside a splendid water supply, and only a
fool would propose to place it anywhere else. It
is on the banks of the only N.S.W. river which
continued to run through the worst days of the
Old Man Drought, and with this magnificent water
power available the Australian capital should
one day be a great industrial city, which could
manufacture more cheaply than any other in
Australia. Unless the capital were placed along-
side one of the big rivers in the Northern Terri-
tory, or on one of the streams that are fed by the
semi-tropical rains of North Queensland, no such
advantages could be secured anywhere else in
Australia. Yet the transfer of this area to the
Commonwealth won’t deprive N.S.W. of any
water that it is putting to the slightest use. The
clear, fast-flowing, never-failing Snowy River
runs uselessly into Victorian territory, and then
into the sea. There is practically no population
on the banks of the Snowy ; it irrigates nothing ;
it turns no mills; it lights no city; and, in this
land of drought, it supplies no great population
with a drinkable fluid. It is mere waste —the
waste of one of the greatest assets this country
possesses. And the miserable Carrutheks party
wants to let this waste continue, while the
Federal city is built in some region of precarious
rainfall west of the mountains, or beside a muddy
lake, which has a habit of vanishing almost com-
pletely for years at a stretch, and becoming no
lake at all—only mud.
* • • •
Exactly why trouble should have arisen when
the Australian Parliament selected a site with so
much to recommend it, and selected the site, also,
on the advice of the trusted officer specially
appointed by the N.S.W. Government, it is diffi-
cult to understand. As a matter of fact, many of
the State politicians of N.S.W. had taken up an
attitude of grumbling hostility to the Common-
wealth even before there was a Commonwealth.
The trouble began a good 50 years back. N.S.W.
politicians always cultivated an overweening
sense of the pomp and importance of what they
called the Mother State. When Victoria, in the
gold days, suddenly left N.S.W. far behind in
wealth and population, and Melbourne sprang
up like a mushroom and for a while over-
shadowed Sydney, the rage of the old school
of Ma State politicians amounted to a
frenzy. The finest exponent of this mental atti-
tude was John Robertson, who, in all his
long life, hardly once spoke of Victoria without
snuffling out a curse ; and he had many followers
of the old vicious Cabbage Tree Mob variety.
Though N.S.W. started the movement which led
to the establishment of the Commonwealth, and
its politicians posed greatly to the effect that it
was their State which had taken the lead, and
though they called the late Parkes of N.S.W.
the Father of Federation, they often forgot their
cue the next instant, and from sheer force of habit
denounced the Federal movement as a “ Victorian
conspiracy.” They tried to wreck their own
movement—from sheer force of habit—by raising
the minimum vote required to accept the Federal
Constitution to what they hoped was an impos-
sible figure. They put up frenzied parish orators
like “Jack” Want to denounce the proposed
union which they had themselves promoted as a
“monkey show,” and other samples of choice
dialect. And when a section of the old N.S.W.
State politicians moved into the Federal arena,
many of them went as a band of organised obstruc-
tionists, who took it for granted that Federal
legislation must be a conspiracy against their
wonderful and valuable and always-injured State.
» » * *
Also they left behind them in State politics a
valuably ally in the shape of Joseph Carruthers.
Carruthers ranks as a Political Worm of the
small, impolite order. His pathetic pose is that
of the Strong Man, and his only idea of how to
look like a Strong Man is to be rude ; to find a
grievance in everything the Commonwealth does
or leaves undone; and to strike attitudes as the
Great Man who is defending Ma State at any cost
against imaginary injuries, just as Simon Tap-
pertit and Dennis the hangman defended Eng-
land against the machinations of Rome. His
apparent aim is, not that N.S.W. should be the
most influential partof Australia, but that it should
be a soured irreconcilable fighting Australia
(which is largely itself) all the time, and regarding
Australia (which is largely itself) as a foreign in-
stitution and an enemy. The idea of showing
the power of N.S.W.-—or rather the power
of Joseph Carruthers as the Political Insect
of N.S.W.—by insisting that N.S.W. should
alone select the Federal capital, by de-
manding that it should be where N.S.W.
—or rather Carruthers—pleases, and nowhere
else; and by demonstrating that the other States,
and the Commonwealth of which N.S.W. is the
most influential member, are mere dirt as com-
pared with N.S.W. regarded in that hostile
State capacity wherein it is represented by the
Political Insect Carruthers—all these things
apparently appeal to Joseph’s soul. A certain
class of mind can only show its power by insulting
or humiliating somebody, or by being disagreeable
and contradictory to somebody. Probably if the
Federal city had been selected at Armidale or
Tam worth, Carruthers would have taken just
the same joy in demanding that it should be on
Monaro, where he now says it shouldn’t be.
Either way he would have posed as the Great
Man who insulted Australia, and ordered capitals
to be shifted round at his enormous and self-
satisfied will and pleasure. In this respect he
somewhat resembles Moliere’s Bourgeois Gentil-
homme, who summoned his two huge .flunkeys,
not that he wanted them, but just to remind
them of his existence. Joseph keeps calling out
violently to the Commonwealth lest it should for-
get there is any Joseph at all.
* * * *
The various developments of the question re
the Australian capital since the beginning of the
paltry little racket have been something like
this:—
(1) Joseph refused to surrender the Monaro site because
N.S.W. couldn’t afford to sacrifice a place of such great
wealth and population.
(2) It being proved by the census and-the revenue
returns that there is very little wealth and hardly any
population thereabouts, and that Joseph was a silly
fabricator, he declared Monaro to be a barren, wretched
place quite unfit for a capital. His sudden yearning to
give something really valuable to the Commonwealth
was pathetic.
(3) It was said by various parties that N.S.W. should
have been consulted as to the selection of a site in the
first place. The fact that it was patiently consulted for
several years, and that the Australian Parliament followed
the only advice it could get from N.S.W., doesn’t in the
least diminish the cry that N.S.W. should have been
consulted.
(4) It was alleged that, on some obscure and technical
reading of the Constitution, the Commonwealth should
have acquired the land first and fixed the site of the
capital afterwards. This is the difference between
Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
(5) It was alleged that Dalgety shouldn’t be chosen
because it was closer to Melbourne than Sydney, which
statement the map declares to be a glaring lie.
(6) It was alleged that the Ma State had been
“ wronged.”
(7) It was alleged that Dalgety was too far from Sydney.
Then Carruthers offered Tumut, which is eleven miles
further from Sydney.
(8) It was alleged that Dalgety would be a “Bush
Capital,” just as Sydney and Melbourne were not very
many years ago. Then Carruthers offered an equally
bushy site at Lyndhurst. A person named Biddulph
seems to have a very large axe to grind at Lyndhurst.
(9) It was alleged, over and over again, that the Con-
stitution provided that the Federal city should be “as
near as possible to the 100-mile limit from Sydney,” and
that the Dalgety idea was, therefore, an outrage. This
was such a shrieking falsehood, as any one could see by a
glance at the Constitution, that its long persistence is a
marvel of impudence.
(10) It was stated generally that the Ma State had been
“ shamefully defrauded.”
(11) It was announced, in a general way, that owing to
the “ great sacrifices ” which N.S.W. had made in joining
the Commonwealth, it should be rewarded by having the
capital where all its trade must go to Sydney. A
demand to know what were these “great sacrifices”
never evoked anything beyond a vague and general lie to
the effect that N.S.W. was “ carrying the other States on
its back.” This plaint always came from the importing
crowd, which can never realise that Sydney isn’t all
N.S.W., and that if there were any “sacrifices,” and if
there is any “ compensation ” due, the said compensation
may be as much due to Goulburn or Wagga Wagga as to
Sydney.
(12) It was stated that as N.S.W. had to surrender
the territory—or would be “robbed” of the territory—
for the capital it was in some degree a victim, and should,
by way of compensation, have a voice which no other
State is allowed in fixing the site. The same people also
said that N.S.W. wouldn’t have joined the Common-
wealth if the other States hadn’t allowed it the privilege
of being “robbed of” that territory, and that the
privilege of being robbed of the Federal Capital site was
only a just compensation for the unspecified “ sacrifices ”
already mentioned.
(13) Also there has been a vague frothing at the mouth
to the effect that when the Australian Parliament
promptly selected the capital site which the N.S.W.
Government official declared to be the very best, it did
so because the site was so bad that it knew a Federal
capital would never be built there—in fact, it was all a
scheme to keep things in Melbourne.
(14) And on top of all this there has been, in the Sydney
importing and foreign shoddy press, a continual trickle
of angry demand to know why the Australian Parliament
ignores its constitutional obligation to select a Federal
capital, and a magnificently cheeky profession of a belief
that the Australian Parliament has never selected any
capital site, that it has never done anything in the matter,
and that Australia is waiting for it to move, instead of
waiting for the aw'ful N.S.W. Government to come to its
senses.
* * * »
If N.S.W.’s Political Worm Carruthers has
any definite purpose in all this, apart from liis
purpose to be a sour and disagreeable small bco ,
it would appear that his object is to have a small
Federal territory in some undesirable spot that is
wholly surrounded by the territory of New South
Wales. Such a place would have no water catch-
ment area of its own, but would be wholly depen-
dent on the kindness of New South Wales for
water, and if it was allowed to have any, and
N.S.W. permitted cows and hogs to graze on the
catchment area, and the water was thus a mass
of typhoid, it would have to come humbly to
Joseph Carruthers and ask him, as a great
favor, to remove his cows and hogs. It would
have to pay for its water supply any price that
the Joe Government liked to ask, and would be
warned periodically that the supply might be cut
off at any time because the Ma State required it
for irrigation or something. Then it would be
wholly dependent on N.S.W. for outlets of com-
munication, and would have to discharge its
drainage into N.S.W. territory, by kind permis-
sion of Joe, granted as a great favor on Joe being
approached with sufficient humility, and with the
warning that Joe might reconsider the matter at
any moment. All this might be very gratifying
to the petty Joseph, but Australia isn’t taking
any of that sort of thing. As for the handful of
obstructionists who assist the awful Car-
ruthers in blocking the settlement of this
urgent national question, they are mostly
the Sydney importing gang and its minions, bent
on opposing any settlement of the question which
won’t plant the capital where it will bring grist to
the mill of the York-street importers. Probably
95 per cent, of the people of N.S.W. have no shred
of sympathy with the mean and wretched con-
spiracy of a handful of importers in search of
business, and a few tenth-rate politicians who are
prepared to sacrifice the interests of Australia if
they can thereby gain a little advertisement and a
little power, and can distract public attention
from their own incapacity. The fault of the
people lies in the apathy whereby they allow
Carruthers to cumber the political earth. And
the fault of the Australian Parliament lies in the
fact that it also tolerates Joseph, and wastes
courtesy and consideration on him, instead of
devising some means of securing the Dalgety site
by compulsion, and thus ending the babble of con-
troversy. When it does that the “grievance” will
be dead in a month. Until it does that the
grievance will go on indefinitely, and the alleged
“ wrongs” of the Ma State in the matter will be
bellowed about for 20 years if the misguided
patience of the Federal authority lasts so long.
AUSTRALIA’S POLICEMAN.
The defence organisation of Australia “goes on
parade ” during the Easter season. The “ autumn
manoeuvres ” of the forces during that time repre-
sent in most cases practically all the real training
they get, with the exception of the rifle shooting
practice of the infantry, odd afternoons at the
butts. It is a fitting time to ask the troops to
parade before the Public as Inspector-General.
What is our Defence Force, and what is its value ?
•* * • *
In the beginning let it be remarked that Aus-
tralia is a country that particularly wants an
adequate defence force. It is in the position of a
citizen who wears a valuable gold watch, carries
always much loose change, and lives in a particu-
larly “tough” quarter. The private wealth of
Australia is the greatest per head of any country
in the world. The stock of valuable minerals
lying in handy pockets along the Australian coast
far exceeds that of any other country of its
population in the world. A raiding enemy could
probably get more coal, gold, silver and wheat off
the Australian coast than off any other coast on
earth. A colonising enemy could get more fat
empty lands than in any other continent on
earth. These facts represent the gold watch
and loose change part of the argument. As to
the “tough’' quarter—well, this white man’s
country is called Austral-Asia—Southern Asia.
That is its geographical position. It is bounded
on the north by Asia, on the east, west and south
by hungry seas which shelter many sharks but no
reliable friends. And Asia now represents the
one assuredly rowdy element in world politics.
There would be some moral hesitation on the part
of a white nation before it endeavored to garrote
Australia,, and the moral scruples of any one
people with ideas of that sort would probably be
strengthened on reflection by the thought that
other white nations might object to the crime.
No such hindrances would come in the way of an
Asiatic war of conquest against Australia. So,
figuratively, Australia lives in the Lilly-Buck-
stleet or the Wexford-street of Civilisation, and
flaunts its great gold production and its enormous
silver (not German silver either) resources, and
its monumental coal scuttle, and its big inviting
empty back-yard, with hardly a fence between it
and swarming aliens who have no back-yard and
hardly a balcony to hang their washing on—if they
have any washing. Under the circumstances
Australia, to be at all comfortable in its mind,
needs a big policeman. Parade the policeman!
• * *
For a start Australia does very well. The
Defence Act states that every male citizen must
bear arms in defence of his country (if he cun find
anyarmstobear). A good beginning. Buttherethe
good ends. The Act says that every citizen must
fight for his country. It makes no compulsion of
his training. That is left to himself. He can
train or not as he chooses. A few hundreds of him
are tempted to train as members of a small Perma-
nent Force. They are well paid and probably equal
to the soldiers of any other part of the world. If
Monaco declared war on Australia the Permanent
Force would be ample for its defence. But at
present there is no danger from Monaco. Tn addi-
tion to the Permanent Force of 1333 men there is
a militia of 15,187 men. These are citizen soldiers,
who are paid to devote a little of their time to de-
fence training. They are paid for up to 1G days a
year, and cost about £l6 a year. Their standard
of efficiency is probably very good. Australia
could with confidence match them against any
average army of their own size. If Nicara-
gua were to declare war, the militia could
face the event with courage. But so far
there is no danger from Nicaragua. When the
Permanent and Militia forces are counted, the
tale of Ausf valian defence is practically complete.
They total 15,418, and represent the army of a
populate ;i of 4,000,000 people, and guard a coast-
line of 7 50 n 1 1 js.
* * * *
That is'' practically the complete policeman.
What parts remain are (1) the cadets; (2) the rifle
clubs; (3) the volunteers. The cadets are boys
who are being trained up in the way they should
go. It cannot be seriously suggested that they
are fit for the tiring line. But they are beginning
well; let them pass. The rifle clubs are begin
ners of an older type. They are engaged in
learning part of the work of defence—rifle-shooting
—and in the event of war, would be available to
fill the ranks of the infantry more quickly than the
absolutely untrained citizens. But they have no
officers—they possess neither the somewhat gilded
officer who has a commission and a sword and
an idea of himself (all of which do not necessarily
mean incapacity), nor the non-commissioned,
swordless man who puts on no style, but is the
real backbone of an army. It is commonly said
that it takes three years to make a lieutenant; if
so, it takes six years to make a sergeant-major.
The rifle clubs help to make neither. Lastly come
the volunteers.
• * * *
The volunteers represent the chief humbug of
Australian defence. Neither men nor officers are
paid, and that is supposed to represent their
superior patriotism, and to be an argument in
favor of leaving the voluntary method of enlist-
ment undisturbed. But though they are not paid,
the volunteers cost, per man, just half as much as
the militia men. And because they are not paid
the volunteers do net work. There are excep-
tions which only prove the rule. The absolute
honest fact is tli it the volunteer regiments might
be wiped out of Australian defence calculations.
Every honest volunteer officer will endorse that
statement—-regretfully, but still fully. That
branch of the defence force is a good deal favored
by the man wko has no real desire to train as a
soldier, but is only anxious to get the right to
sport a uniform. Such gentlemen as ex-Colonel
Neild and ex-Oaptuin Wilks, and still-Major
Randal e to mention only public men—
are fair average samples of the volunteer officer.
There are many who must be taken even less
seriously as warriors; few who deserve to be
taken more seriously. In the main the volunteer
soldier does not attend parades with any regu-
larity except on show occasions; The Bulletin
could instance many volunteer officers who, in the
memory of their commanding officers, have never
attended a “ working ” parade. The rank-and-
file are equally negligent. There is no way of
enforcing either attendance or discipline, and the
regimental organisation is kept going, in many
cases, simply to pander to the vanity of a few men
who want to sport military titles, but who do not
want to do any military study.
• * • *
Dismiss the parade. That is the Australian
Policeman.
Permanent Forces 1,333
Militia 15,187
Total soldiers 10,520
Volunteers 5,237
Eifle Clubs 23,747
Total (who are in the infant class
of soldiery) 28,984
45,504
And, as before remarked, Australia wears a large
gold-chain and jingles much loose change in its
pockets. Also, as it swaggers along its “ tough”
quarter it makes audible remarks about brown
and yellow trash. The position is full of dis-
quieting possibilities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Shire Council Cadge.
Under the new N.S. Wales Local Government
Act the State has handed bodily over the land-
tax, worth about £335,000 a year, to the shires ;
also, it undertakes to endow them to the extent
of £150,000 a' year; moreover, it undertakes an
unstated but certainly vast responsibility with
regard to “ national works.” Almost anything
may be declared a “national work,” and when it-
becomes a “national work” the State Govern-


raent has to support it in the same old way that it
did before it handed over the £335,000 of land-
tax and contracted to pay £150,000 in subsidies :
The Governor may by proclamation declare any park,
road, bridge, or public work of whatever character in any
area to be a national work, and thereupon such work, if
a new work, shall be constructed subject to the pro-
visions of the Public Works Act 1900 ; and. such work,
whether it be a new work or already in existence, shall
be maintained, managed, and administered by the Minister
for Public Works.
It was supposed that, when the “comprehensive
Local Government Act ” that has been talked
about for 25 or 40 years was passed, the roads and
bridges’ member would be wiped out, and that,
instead of pettifogging log-rollers, men worthy of
sitting in a Parliament would be elected. But
the successful log-roller and department-trotter
will still have the pull amongst people who are
more interested in dodging rates than in the
character of I he laws. Already the shire councils,
which mostly represent the land-owners, have
given an inkling of the way they propose to make
use Of this “national work ” provision. It having
been announced that most bridges would be
declared “ national works,” and the cost of main-
taining them assumed by the State, the conference
of shire presidents has unanimously resolved
that “where bridges are proclaimed national
works, other bridges that are part of the approach
should also be proclaimed national works ” ; and
as, in a manner of speaking, every bridge is an
approach to every other bridge, the shire presi-
dents’ resolution suggests the extent to which the
gentle art of “ biting the Minister’s ear” may be
practised in the future. At the best the new
local government is going to be a shockingly ex-
pensive business for the State Government; at
the worst, in view of these “ national works ” pro-
visions, there is practically no limit to its pos-
sible expensiveness. Formerly, before the shires
arrived, if the local member cadged it was because
individual electors, or an occasional Progress
Committee, made cadging the price of sup-
port. Under the new system the promotion of
the cadge will be organised, and the best cadger
will be most likely to get organised support. It
seemed pretty difficult to get the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment reduced to a lower level than it has been on
lately; but it looks a good deal as though, instead of
elevating it, the new Act is calculated to drag it
a point or two further down.
♦
The Queensland Situation.
“ Cabe:. ’ returns to the charge with the light of
battle flaming in his eye and the axe of argument
in his hand :
“ Itan” (B. 21/3/’O7) is in a state of unrest because of a
few stray warnings I threw out about the dismal outlook
right in front of the Queensland Democracy—an outlook
brought about by the cantankerousness of the irrecon-
cilable section of that Democracy, and its resolve to play
into the hands of Robert Philp and Co. “Itan” hurls
around in a very careless manner rugged chunks of
innuendo and unveracity to intimidate those who won’t
go kicking up their heels in a fool’s paradise in his com-
pany. His optimism is a disease with the Queensland
Democrat, and represents the same hoity-toity cocksure-
ness that got us down in 1878 ; that gave Tom M’llwraith
a sweeping majority in 1888 ; that allowed the 1893 crowd
to assist their bosses, the financial institutions, out of a
mighty tight corner ; that floored us in 1896, 1899, and
1902. The same rosy-colored imagery is playing the same
old game for all it is worth to-day.
Don’t the return of Tolmie to the Tory stake-and-
wattle enclosure and the political acrobatism of
Bouchard warn “Itan” that there are “ razors in the
air ”7 And how does the other Queensland elector recon-
cile the war-to-the-knife policy of the HiNCHCLiFFE-ites.
led by Mat Reid and Dave Bowman, with the assumption
that democrat Ryott-Maughan will get a solid Labor
vote in Ipswich, when he calls to mind the fact that, a
few years ago, Laborites, at the behest of the Worker;
bumped out Ryott-Maughan for daring to differ from the
Gospel according to St. Albert? And does he really
intend us to believe that the Extremists will stand by
O’Sullivan if a Laborite of the Worker brand takes the
field for Warwick? And why does “Itan” get so far
astray as to assert that O’Sullivan was not a Minister of
the Grown when he beat Barnes? Asa matter of fact,
O’Sullivan, when he won Warwick by the narrow
majority of 14 votes, was Minister for Works, and had
been a Crown Minister since 1903.
The Rockhampton conference has decided to oppose
Kidston. The fight is a triangular one. The Hinch-
CLiFFE-ites will run candidates for South Brisbane, Valley,
Ipswich, Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Maryborough, Cam-
booya, Warwick, the Towers, Cunningham, Carnarvon,
and every other electorate. And so will Philp. Can
Kidston battle against the combination? If success
crowns the, to my mind, impossible effort, no one will
hail his victory with more genuine gratification
than I, but “I hae ma doots.” What Queensland
wants at date is cohesion between the sections of
Democracy, now at each other’s throats, and a deter-
mined effort to head off Bob and co. from the Treasury
benches. That would, in my humble opinion, be a
derned sight better business than prancing round, hul-
looing over an event that may miss the ’bus. Anyway, if
“Itan” is not more strictly accurate in his prophecies
than he is in his history, h;» cheerful optimism is left as
the one solitary crag of redeeming virtue in the turbulent
sea of wrong premises and false conclusions. When he
confidently assures us that Warwick has been always
represented b3 T Democrats, he takes a daring leap over
some tall portions of history. Has he heard anyone
accuse Charlie Clark, Jacob Horwitz or William Allan
of leanings toward Democracy? And was not Warwick
represented for some months by a member of the Philp
crowd —the late Thomas Joseph Byrnes? Warwick may
again live up to the reputation of being the most fickle
electorate in Queensland.
4 -
Philp’s Alleged Bad Luck.
Piiilp’s one hope up North is to convince the
public that Kidston has had nothing to do with
Queensland’s prosperity. The prosperity he can’t
deny—all he can say is that if he, Philp, had had
Kidston’s chances, the State would have been
more prosperous. Therefore, at every oppor-
tunity Philp talks of “bounteous seasons,” and
of “ revivals in mining ” ; he started off at Towns-
ville with—“At the threshold of my speech I
take this opportunity of congratulating our State
on the triumphant way its resources and the
enterprise of its citizens have lifted it from the
depression,” and he added that when he left
office he saw the lift approaching, wherefore
it is his lift, and not Kidston’s. Philp chatters
so incessantly on this theme, and his press bar-
rackers re-echo the chatter so vigorously that the
short-memoried public is in danger of believing
that'Queensland never had a good time before,
and that Kidston has simply floated along on the
highest wave of prosperity. Facts, naturally, are
the last things Philp wants to.me.et, wherefore
The Bulletin disobliges him with a few. Thorn-
hill Weedon, Queensland’s Government Statis-
tician, who a few months ago published “The
A.B.C. of Queensland Statistics,” supplies most
of them, so they can be accepted as hard, well-
baked, and official. First, as to agriculture.
Between 1896 and 1901, both inclusive, the
Queensland wheat yield was never less than 11'70
bushels per acre, and ran up to 19'40 bushels.
The average for the six years was 15'49
bushels. They were Philp’s years—in five of
them he was Treasurer ; he was either Pre-
mier or Minister for the whole period except
six days. Six days out of six years ! And the
average wheat yield in the six years was 15'49
bushels, the best indication of what the seasons
were like. Morgan and Kidston arrived at the
end of 1903. In 1904, the wheat yield averaged
14'24 bushels, or less than the Philp average ; in
1905, it was 9‘53 bushels, or less than the average
in any single year between 1895 and 1901; and
last year it was far under the Philp period
average. As to maize, the yield has averaged less
in the last three years than it did in the previous
seven, and the area under crop was 127,974 acres
in 1900, as against 113,720 in 1905 ; while the sugar
crop was heavier in 1898, when Philp was Trea-
surer, than it has ever been since. There has been
some sort of a mining revival during the past
three years, owing to the high prices of metals ;
but as against that the Kidston period has been
struck, by a very serious depression on the gold-
fields, whose output has moved this way :
1903 .. .. 2,858,9070 z.
1904 .. . . 2,727,010,,
1905 .. .. 2,517,295,,
1906 .. .. 2,313,464 ~
If Queensland has had the advantage during the
past three years of an increase in the output of
industrial metals, it had the temporary advantage
under Philp’s Treasurership of the large expendi-
ture of such concerns as the Chillagoe Co. Philp
got the temporary advantage from that, as he did
from the £7,250,000 of loan money that was spent
between 1896 and 1903; all Kidston got was the
bill. All round, then, between 1895 and 1902,
Queensland’s conditions ought to have made it
prosperous. The seasons were good. There was
never in all those years so dry a year in Brisbane
as 1904, and only one drier than 1905. To say,
therefore, that natural conditions have been help-
ing Kidston, while they scowled consistently on
Philp, is rubbish. The truth is that Philp
didn’t know what to do with prosperity when he
saw it. He had no more idea than the six-year-
old child how to use his opportunities. But he
was in the place where he had the power to abuse
them, and he did that magnificently. He let any
old syndicate exploit the country and grab the
advantages that the people should have had. Too
weak to make enemies by vigorous action, he just
drifted into debt to oblige anybody who could
whisper insinuatingly enough into his ear. He
had no public works policy; he just splashed
around money in a vague, indefinite way, and
naturally his successor could get no decent return
out of the things he wasted the money on. Yet
practically all the time he had behind him a large
majority, and the circumstances favored a definite
policy. It was Philp’s misfortune, no doubt, that
he was trained in a bad political school. He was
a remnant, left over from Queensland’s disastrous
boom. And on his own admission he hasn’t
learned anything since. He can’t see that he was
wrong before; he just puts his previous failure
down to bad luck, yet all the facts show that his
“ luck ” was as good as Kidston’s, if not better.
Immigrants from Africa.
Another cry comes from South Africa. The
Australian Government, on the energetic initia-
tive of Acting-P'reniier Forrest, has decided to
spend £7OOO in bringing back to God’s good
country Australians of fair character, who have
become stranded in that Chow-infested Sheol
where white men are not wanted these days. And
the good news has brought forth a loud cry from
an army of Englishmen—allegedly some 10,000 or
20,000 of them—who are also lost and hopeless in
Chowth Africa, and who ask if Australia has
room for them likewise. The appeal is worth
considering. Some of the applicants are married
to women of color, and have piebald children,
and for them Australia has certainly no room.
But as regards those who have no color mixture,
and who are of good physique and good character,
Australia should find space, and it should also
assist them to get here and occupy the space.
Australia wants men to garrison it against
the day of trouble which will assuredly come.
It will want men —thousands of men—in its fac-
tories as soon as Alfred the Affable gets the new
tariff fairly going. It will want many thousands
of men on its lands as soon as Alfred the Affable
gets the Federal graduated land-tax in motion;
and, despite the awful affability of Alfred the
Affable, it is impossible for him to avoid both
these matters much longer. The probabilities are
that the Englishmen to be obtained in South
Africa are of a far better stamp than those pro-
curable in England. The fact that they had the
courage to shake the mud of England’s green
lanes off their feet, to quit Stoke Pogis and
Lyme Regis and Bishop Stortford and Shepton
Mallet and Tadcaster, and to forswear the squire
and the lord of the manor, and strike out fora
new land, marks them as people of some enter-
prise. The fact that the new land proved
a disastrous failure makes them no less
people of enterprise. They have seen
much since they left England—above all,
they have seen the horrors of Chow and coolie
labor, and the evils of monopoly, and these expe-
riences all tend to make them good citizens of the
kind that Australia requires. At present the
prospects of white immigration from England are
none too bright, which is all the more reason why
this offer from South Africa should be considered.
The proportion of human weeds among the
British applicants for passages to this country is
something enormous (though, of course, it may be
that the undesirable lot applied first, and the
swarm of really good men will come later); a
recent report was to the effect that 35 pro-
mising settlers were found out of 2300 who
pounded on the Agent-General’s door in
London. Our nearest probable sources for
the supply of desirable white settlers are South
Africa and California, and, in all probability, by
reason of the curious tendency of the white races
to go west, California will yet be our best source
of immigration. But, meanwhile, a supply which
may be good, and which is certainly worth in-
spection, is waiting in South Africa. That
country has chosen to commit suicide, by enor-
mous borrowing, by gross misgovernment, and by
the importation of colored labor of the worst kind,
and there is no reason why Australia shouldn't
profit by its suicide —shouldn’t turn an honest
penny by the sale of the cadaver, so to speak.
*
The Forgotten Dead.
When Seddon died a few months ago, Maoriland
sobbed convulsively. The most opulent funeral
that man could devise or that cash could purchase
was forced upon his clay despite any family pro-
tests. People weren’t going to be done out of a
unique chance to visit the capital of the State ;
and the price of everything in those days of grief
went up 200 per cent. Drapers and florists were
very Sorry, indeed, that Maoriland’s biggest man
had passed away. They most reluctantly made
small fortunes. To-day Maoriland has just begun to
question whether Seddon is worth a memorial. It
isn’t quite sure whether it will have any memorial
after all, and it seems to be asking itself, “Who
was this Seddon, anyhow ? ” Seddon was the
person who, before he left for his fatal trip to
Australia, remarked that there was a large, useless
barracks on Government ground in the most
commanding situation in Wellington. He in-
tended, he told the people, to collar that barracks
and make a Technical College of it. Several persons
who held their M.L.C.-ships as gifts from the de-
parted, rose with the veins standing out on their
foreheads to exclaim that that was the very thing
they had been thinking about for years and years.
They formed a committee. The committee now
says it circularised the people of M.L. to find
out what they thought would be a fitting national
memorial of the Big Dead. The committee says
that the people replied in shoals, intimating that
a technical school was the one tribute they desired
to pay to Seddon. The committee didn’t ask for
any money from the circularised, and the public
that was frothing for the technical school didn’t
send any money. The committee then had a long
slumber, and forgot that there was a Seddon,' in
the joy of remembering that there is a Ward,
who is even a better maker of Ms.L.C. Some-
body wrote to the papers saying that it was a
dashed shame that everybody had forgotten
Seddon. The drowsing committee sprang to
attention, and hurled back retorts that it had been
working night and day emblazoning the name of
Seddon on the pages of history. Next day it held
a five-column meeting and another memorial ser-
vice, so to speak, on Seddon. A SEDDON-made
M.L.C., who had slept more soundly than any-
body else, spoke again about a technical college.
The proposal was received with great silence this
time. A WARD-manufactured M.L.C., who can’t
get any more out of Seddon anyhow, raised a
horrified hand, and moved an amendment that the
committee should canvass the country for money
to raise a statue. The citizen committee of Wel-
lington, which, in a frenzy of enthusiasm, a few
months ago, threw £lO,OOO to the Y.M.C.A. to
build a place to bang the hymn-book in, received
the bronze proposal with a warmth that wouldn’t
noticeably brown a chop. Already £lOO has been
raised for the purpose of impeding the traffic with
a bulky metal portrait of Seddon, and things seem
to remain there. The Mayors of Maoriland have
received a circular asking them to tell the people that
Seddon really is dead, and that Wellington wants
to raise an obstruction in its overcrowded streets,
which will be available as a sight to persons from
the backblocks, if they can get jacked out of the
mud in time to catch the coach for town. Wel-
lington has only two mineral heaps of celebrities,
and they are claimed to be the most grotesque
misrepresentations of Ballance and Queen Vic-
toria that ever kept the wind off a deadbeat.
Although Wellington threatened, when the last-
named person died, to go to patriotic extremes,
it took the city many years to raise the money for
the Victoria obstruction. It seems that it will
take even longer in the present instance.
4
“ The Sanctity of Human Life.”
The rescue of the Italian miner, Varischetti,
who had been living for ten days in compressed
air at the top of a rise in a flooded mine near
Coolgardie, has given the daily papers and other
platitudinarians a fine chance. ’ Most of them
have made stodgy remarks, a column long, about
“the sanctity of human life.” “Nothing was
spared in the stake against fate for that one
human life.” That, from the Telegraph, was
the gist of most of the stodge. “ In the stake
against fate ! ” But was it fate ? It was surface
water, and surface water isn’t fate. Fate didn’t
taka that water underground; probably either
carelessness or greed did that —carelessness in
neglecting precautions against surface water pour-
ing down the shaft, or greed in sinking a shaft in a
wrong place in order to save a little expense.
When greed or carelessness skimp timber or other
life-saving things in a mine, and the miner is
killed or maimed, it is “fate,” or “ the dangers
from which the miner’s calling is inseparable.”
On the other hand, when a miner sits between
the jaws of death—the jaws of death which ought
never to have opened—and efforts are made to
snatch him out, the public, led by the papers, gets
hysterics, and talks of “the sanctity of human
life.” It would be far better for the miner if there
was a little more talk of “ the sanctity of human
life ”at other times before the jaws open. One
would almost imagine that never a miner had
been killed before in Westralia. Yet for eight
years past the average has been 43 a year, and an
average of 140 others have been seriously injured
—over 300 miners killed, and just under 1000 badly
maimed in seven years. Of the vast majority
of these accidents the public remembers nothing,
because the papers said practically nothing about
them. Let a miner meet death in just a common
way—let a stone fall on him and crush him in a
manner so ordinary as to occasion no remark —and
a two-line telegram fills the newspaper bill. If
a common stone had fallen on the Coolgardie
miner in the common way the public would have
been told that “an Italian miner named Vermi-
celli was killed by a fall of earth this morning,”
and that would have ended the matter. Ten
miners can be killed in the same way by 10
different falls, and no public attention is given to
the matter. But let one fall kill 10 men at once,
and it becomes good newspaper “copy ” ; and an
awakened and outraged public prods half-a-dozen
members of Parliament to ask 47 questions on
the subject. These big accidents, however,
happen only about once in five or seven years,
and the newspapers (and to a great extent the
public) don’t seem to have a notion that six times
as many men as the big accident kills have been
turned into corpses by ones and twos in between.
It is probably because they don’t know this that
they swallow the “guff ” about “the sanctity of
human life”—the sanctity of human life in a
calling in which, taking Australia all round,
one man in 600 is killed outright, one man in
250 is badly maimed, and one man in every four
meets with a minor accident every year. But
the miner’s widow suffers as well as the miner
from this public indifference concerning the
miner killed in the common way that is worth
nothing from a newspaper point of view. Observe
how the public has poured out its money in this
“sensational” Varischetti case—it felt that it
had to pour it out on something. No doubt, if
Varischetti had died and he had had a widow and
children on the spot, something substantial
would have been done for them. But Varis-
ohetti’s wife would have got just as hungry if
her husband had been killed in an ordinary,
humdrum way—by “another fall of earth,
caused by cursed timber dearth,” as Grant
Hervey once put it —or occasioned by too poor
contracting pay to allow of temporary timber
being put in. And she would have remained
hungry so far as any public relief was concerned.
Fortunately things are better now in N.S. Wales,
which has a miners’ accident relief fund ; and
how badly the fund was needed is shown by the
fact that already, in six years, there is an accumu-
lation of 172 widows, 380 orphaned children, and
42 other dependents getting regular relief, while
last year claims were allowed in respect of no less
than 60 fatal accidents and 5608 non-fatal acci-
dents. That is for N.S. Wales alone. The same
or worse things happen in the other States, but,
save in the “ sensational” case, nothing is done for
the maimed miner or for the widow and orphans
of the miners who, instead of being maimed for
life, are (often mercifully) killed outright. The
Bulletin does not complain of the efforts made to
rescue this miner of the West; not one stroke too
much was done. But it does despise the hysterics,
or hypocrisy, of the people who prate about “the
sanctity of human life,” yet make no effort to
reduce the appalling tale of accidents, or to give
to the rest of Australia such a fund as the
N.S. Wales miners have. Varischetti was
brought out of the mine alive. Every year scores
of other miners are brought out of the mines alive
too, but disabled for life. If life is so sacred a
thing, it is monstrous to send it out armed with
nothing better than a pair of crutches and a
beggar’s dish. And the widow and her children
have lives, too, that are just as sacred —and what
is being done for them ?
*
Very Awkward.
By his extraordinary performance in regard to
the N.S.W. Gaming and Betting Act Attorney-
General Wade has put his foot in it more com-
prehensively than almost any other political
Strong Man in history. From Bourke to Sydney
and from Delegate unto Tenterfield, pastoralists,
horse-owners and their dependents are clothed
with cursing as with a garment, and are assuring
each other that this man is but a whited sepul-
chre, that his head is of wood, his feet of clay,
and his name of Mud. When the Gaming and
Betting Act (amended) came down from the
Upper House, at the fag end of last State session,
Thrower (M.L.A. for The Macquarie) made
haste to inquire what the effect of the altered
Bill would be on the trotting portion of the agri-
cultural show schedules. Here are the questions
and answers on the subject as they appear in
Hansard (18/12/’O6) : —
Mr. Thrower (The Macquarie) said he regretted very
much that the Council had not seen fit to accept the
amendment of the Assembly with regard to trotting and
coursing. He was not quite clear about the explanation
given by the Attorney-General as to the position in
which country people would be placed by the amendment
of the Council with regard to trotting.
Mr. Wade : It will only affect the area of the course.
Mr. Thrower said the point he wanted to be clear
about was this: Would the amendment with regard to a
six-furlong course apply to country show-grounds ?
Mr. Wade : No !
Mr. Thrower would like to know if betting would be
allowed on show-grounds ?
Mr. Wade : They are outside the Bill altogether.
Mr. Thrower said his reading of the Bill was that a
show-ground could be registered as a racecourse, but that
no race meeting except trotting could take place on a
show-ground.
Mr. Wade : You can race in the same area as a race-
course, and also hold shows there !
Mr. Thrower said that show-grounds were not of the
same area as a racecourse. He wanted to be clear, if we
accepted the amendment, whether it would be possible
for trotting clubs in the country districts to register a
trotting ground as a racecourse.
Mr. Wade: What the hon. member wants to know is,
Can they hold an occasional trot on a show-ground t
That can be done.
Now the average agricultural society official lays
no particular claim to acumen, but as the; weeks
rolled by, and the Show season approached, and
the new Act came to be more and more closely
scanned, horrid doubts began to obtrude them-
selves in minds which hitherto would have re-
garded the questioning of a “ Reform ” Attorney-
General’s opinion on a point of this kind as lese
majeste. The bucolic Anti-Socialist directed in
puzzled fashion the attention of his friends to the
amendment in the Gaming Act which insists that
all trotting contests shall be on tracks of not less
than six furlongs; and followed that up by
remarking on the circumstance that the local
show-ground track (like every other country show-
ground track in the State) measured only about
four furlongs, and, moreover, was impossible of
enlargement without the destruction of thousands
North, and South.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m travellin’ North to Darwin.
Some omen in the sky
Tempts me to try my luck in
The Northern Territ’ry.
There, Earth’s rascal stripling,
With morals unbegun,
And hurrah ! I’ll meet him shortly—
Australia’s Youngest Son.
And it's North . . . North
The rebels battle forth,
From humdrum Institutions far withdrawn ;
We’ll take a summer's outing,
And once more, light-hearted, shouting,
We’ll gaily tramp to meet the tropic dawn.
We’ll scamper up the Roper
Through new tracks hazardous,
And bronzed we’ll taste the tropics,
Meet Gulf men venturous
Who play the game right royally—
The game of Destiny—
Where Life slips like a colored dream
Beside their blood-red sea.
Up North . . . North,
It’s time to battle forth,
Where things have room to happen, curse or bless;
, There, where our Smothered Savage
Can rise to riot, ravage,
And live the life —all else is nothingness.
The South is cursed with Sameness,
Its customs aged, I ween,
Are chained to clogged and creaky
Monotony’s machine.
The South is sleepy Saxon,
Old English, drab, slip-slop :
Made up of cackling suburbs,
And Snuffle, Sham, and Shop.
Down South. . . South.
Existence is a drouth ;
Respectable upon its office perch
No joy of life it scatters ;
For nothing ever matters
Except its Bowls and Carpet Bag and Church „
I’m goin’ North, my brothers,
To start in life again ;
Dig yams, tempt seas a-pearlin’,
Or swelter in the cane.
We’ll play the game, the outcasts
(Red-blooded Ishmaels we), /
A many-colored dream of Life
Beside Romance’s Sea.
And it’s North ... North ...
So long! Em travellin’forth
In search of old A dventure’s latest star ;
You slumber still in old lands,
These dull and drab and cold lands —
I go ivhere Summer arid the Morning are.
VIC.
LOUIS ESSON.


It is not often that an invention is of general
••application. Usually the inventor devotes himself to
Ifllling- a want in one trade ; but the Tyree Spray proves
;an exception. It has now been adopted
Oy Pastoralists for spraying ewes in lamb,
'by Farmers for spraying dairy cows,
by Orchardists for spraying fruit trees,
%y Vignerons for spraying.vines,
by Dairymen for white-washing dairies,
>by Butter Factories for white-washing factories,
by Skin Buyers.for painting skins,
iby the Health Department for disinfecting,
by \Warehousemen for white-washing and disinfecting,
by the Public Schools for sanitary purposes,
by Landowners for killing prickly pear,
by Suburban Residents for killing lantana,
by the Government Department for oil painting,
by Gardeners for killing aphis, scale, etc.,
by Hotelkeepers for fire extinguishing and disinfecting,
by the Hospitals for all purposes,
by Schoolmasters for teaching sanitary science,
by Municipal Councils for oiling streets,
by Banks for spraying dirty notes,
by the Public generally for all purposes.
Make no mistake, the Tyree Spray pays for itself the
first week it is used. Send for printed matter, 314
George-street, Sydney.*
Goldsbrough, Mort and Oo.’s wool report:—
Since last report business has been very quiet, only a few
private transactions having taken place. Auctions will
not be resumed in this market until 16th April, our sale
being fixed for the 18th. An exceptionally large number
of country people are in town for the Show, which bids
fair to be a record one.*
For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living picture
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Lita., oyo
George-street, Sydney, wholesale^ jobbers tor
Edison’s phonographs and products.
of pounds’ worth of grand stands, trees, fences,
houses and the like. He pointed to the definition
making a trotting contest, where two or more
horses start together, a “ race” within the meaning
of the Act, and from that to the plainly-worded
regulation that no “race,” trotting or otherwise,
shall be held unless on “ a licensed course.” He re-
called to his now rapidly wilting hearers that their
show-ground was not a licensed course and never
could be while it remained its present size, and
that the period for licensing it had expired any-
how on the last day of 1906. A recital of the
fines specified in the Act (varying from £5OO to
£lOOO for an infraction of the new law), and to
which each separate official —whether starter,
judge, or steward —is individually liable, filled
the quart pot of apprehension to the brim.
Finally, the Bathurst Show authorities, whose
Show has for years depended for success largely
on its trotting events, rose up and demanded
counsel’s opinion on their position. The sus-
picions that had been aroused were fatally jus-
tified. The only thing C. B. Stephen, K.C., told
his clients, which they had not already worked
out for themselves, was that a prosecution of
anyone aiding and abetting a Show trotting con-
test might be instituted, not alone by the State,
but by the first informer who happened to consider
that half the fine money would keep him in beer
and plug tobacco for quite a while; therefore, any
promise of immunity from Wade wasn’t worth a
copper. Then the Bathurst and other societies
dropped trotting items out of their programmes—
dropped them with the thing wherewith a hot brick
is relinquished—and talked about the ruinous
loss that would result to their institutions, and de-
nounced Wade, Deform, and everyone connected
therewith. There is no question that O. B.
Stephen’s opinion as to the present illegality of
Show trotting contests is correct. N or is there any
question that it is very necessary for the cause of
Deform next August that the people hit by the
new legislation shall somehow or other be placated.
The hapless Wade therefore has two alternatives
before him. He may either (1) make a frank appeal
ad misericordiam, and own up to his audience that
when he answered Thrower’s questions re trotting
he knew not whereof he spoke, which is un-
doubtedly the fact; or (2) he may try to suggest
some means of evading this law put on the Statute
Book by the Government of which he is a member,
and that is what the trotting owners are hoping
against hope he will do. In any case his position
is an extremely unpleasant one and the people
have risen up and called him cuss&d.
Arbitration Vindicated.
When the Maoriland slaughtermen went on
strike, ignoring the existence of the local Arbi-
tration Court, the Australian Tory papers just
slopped over with caustic remarks about the
“Failure of Arbitration.” Then Labor Minister
Millar, himself an ex-strike-leader, set the law
in motion, and the strikers were hauled before the
Court and struck with fines of various amounts
from £5 upwards. The Tory papers pointed out
that it would be impossible to collect the fines,
and went on jeering. However, there is now a
silence on the subject that is quite painful.
Minister Millar went ahead and proved that the
Law had power to gaol the men who would not
or could not pay. Then the bottom fell out of the
strike ; the men flocked back to work first, and
compromised with the employers afterwards.
But as it does not suit the policy of the dailies to
dwell on this fact, it has been quietly ignored,
and even particulars of the settlement have been
carefully suppressed. In Maoriland, at any rate,
Industrial Arbitration does exercise even-
handed justice. In this particular case the
position was somewhat complicated. Origin-
ally the slaughtermen asked the Court to
fix wages at a certain figure for various classes
of work. The employers offered a lower rate, and
the Court, after investigating the matter, came to
the conclusion that there were a number of freez-
ing concerns which could not afford to pay the
rate offered by the majority of the employers, and
fixed prices at a lower figure than even that offered
by the employers’ union. The wealthier ones were
not prohibited paying the higher wages they had
offered, but after the Court’s decision they shel-
tered themselves behind it and paid the statutory
minimum. Then the men broke loose and went
on strike, only to be checked by the law and
driven back to work. The fact that the employers
largely gave way when the men had to either work
or goto gaol proves that in the main the demands,
were just. Had there been no Arbitration Court
the struggle might have been raging yet, and the
employers might have been forced to pay much,
higher wages to save their industry from ruin. As.
it was, the strikers could get no monetary assist-
ance from their unions while the Law was getting
a move on, and once the legal machine did get
going it made short work of the law-breakers. As
Before remarked, the silence of the Australian
Tory press on the result of the struggle is painful.
+>
A letter from Tasmania :
At a dinner given by the Tasmanian Ministry to
Admiral Fawkes prior to the departure of the fleet from
Tasmania, Premier Jack Evans told Australia and the-
world at large what he thought of Australian Defence,
From beginning to end, Jack’s speech was the most
dismal whine yet attempted by any of the poor-mouthed
enemies of the Commonwealth. Australia should
hesitate, said Evans, before attempting to carry out
the scheme of naval defence propounded by Commander
Oresswell, whom he did not consider a real expert.
After describing in grandiloquent terms the glory of the
British Navy, Jack Evans proceeded to abuse the
Commonwealth, belittle its naval ambitions, and insult its
officers, none of whom, he declared, had ever attained to
higher rank than that of a British commander. The forma-
tion of an Australian Navy would mean the squandering
of millions to no purpose whatever. This is but a part of
the complete whine of Evans, but will suffice to show
what awful utterances he is capable of. The speech of
Admiral Fawkes, following on this gloomy diatribe, was
refreshing and full of cheer. Referring to the Australian
seamen, he said he had observed them closely, and could
not speak too highly of their splendid physique and the
progress they were making. While at Singapore the fleet
took part in a regatta, and out of five races they were,
enabled, through the help of the Australians serving in
the Challenger, to win four. In another race held recently
among the youngsters of the fleet, the successful crew con-
sisted of one English and eleven Australian recruits. And
Evans, the Tory Premier of a mere speck of land, declares
that any effort to train these sailors for our own defence is-
waste of good money. How men incapable of dealing with
matters of grave import, and devoid of the faintest spark
of patriotism, rise to posts of responsibility, and remain i
there, is a problem hard to solve. Evans, as a marine
expert, is rather humorous. He never rose beyond the
command of petty little coastal vessels, and even with
them his luck was fairly dreadful. In fact, he retired
from the sea (or the sea retired from him), after being un-
fortunate enough to convince anybody that the less he
posed as a nautical authority, even in a very small wav
the better.
»
Again the question arises—Where does the non-
unionist come in? Apparently he comes in.
nowhere. During some recent rather undefined
trouDles between the Australian steamship owners
and the Sydney Wharf Laborers’ Union, the
non-unionist eventuated as usual. He humped
heavy articles, and dirty articles, and greasy
articles, and round articles, and square articles
he dragged things off ships and on ships; and the
grateful bosses looked on him as a fine
fellow, and he had the impression that glue
wastn’t a circumstance to the way these grateful
bosses would stick to him. He felt for the time
like the bosses’ little brother, and almost fancied
he was going to be taken into partnership. Then
the difficulty ended, and the unionists came back
to work. The bosses then did the inevitable;
they emptied out the non-unionist. They could
do nothing else, but the non-unionist was surprised
and hurt, and felt as if the dog had been set on
him. He asked what he could do to qualify
for employment again, and was told to
go and join the union the very union
which he had been fighting in the bosses’
service. He went to the union and asked it
to take him in, and the union emptied him out
like dirty water, and threatened to set the cat
after him if he were seen about its office again. He
went round again to the bosses, but they were too
busy to see him, and the benevolent aspect that
made him think he was going to be taken into
partnership had beien replaced by a plain busi-
ness front that was too forbidding for words.
He dragged the union before the Arbitration
Court, and the Court said it must either admit
the non-unionists or forfeit its status under the
Arbitration Act. The union forfeited its status
there and then rather than climb down from its
position, and the Arbitration Court could do no
more. Then the non-unionist went back and
looked through the windows of the steamship
offices to see if any trace or semblance of the old
expression that made him feel like a small
brother was visible anywhere, but it was all
gone. And the moral of all this is—Don’t be a
non-unionist. It doesn’t pay.
♦
The Queenslander of March 23 makes a scraggy
fight for its patrons, the sugar planters. In fact,
the Brisbane rag gives them away as a barefaced
mob of cheap labor men. Apparently under the
impression that it is doing them a good turn, it
commends them for refusing to take labor from
other parts of Australia where men are pro-
curable. Thus, although the Commonwealth
handsomely protects the fruits of their industry,
the planters object to employ the natural labor of
the Commonwealth. The Government’s offer
to allow foreign labor to be introduced on
strict contract terms, and on a deposit of
£5 for each immigrant, is also condemned
by the planters, and the condemnation is
approved by the Queenslander, on the ground
that the immigrants would thus be under Com-
monwealth law. What the paper supports the
planters in demanding is the introduction of
immigrants who must not be Australian, who
need not be British, and who may be any old
sort, but who, whatever they are, must be
dumped down at the planter’s door, without any
cost to him, and be left to the mercies of free
competition as to wages. The demand is pre-
sented in so bald and tactless a form that the
cheap labor planters and their paper must realise
that their case is hopeless.
«
Thus “H.L.” (which is apparently short for
Hector Lamond, managing editor of Sydney
Worker), on the prospects of the Queensland
Labor Party since it decided to oppose Premier
Kidston :
And the result of it all ?• Well, there is certainty tha
the Labor Party in the next Queensland Parliament will
be fewer in number than that which followed the Coali-
tion. . In conversation with a careful student of political
affairs, I learned that the best the party can hope for is
from 15 to 20 members in the new Parliament—there were
34 nominal Laborites in the last. But there is a hope
that this smaller party may hold the balance of power be-
tween Kidston and Philp. And it will certainly be a
more reliable and better fighting party than the old. The
position in Queensland is full of interest and warning- to
the Labor Party everywhere.
In other words, it is to be all or nothing.
But while this attitude of no-compromise-
and-dash-the-consequences was good enough
for the Early Christian, who only wanted
to be burned and go to heaven, for people
who want to remain on earth and do things
it doesn’t always pay. Even the most pious
general, with the most profound belief 'in
the goodness of his cause, has often to fight with
an army fully half of which doesn’t believe in the
Shorter Catechism, while sometimes as much as
three-fourths of it hasn’t gone to church so regu-
larly as it should have done. And then he pro-
bably is glad to defeat the enemy by instalments,
and he doesn’t always hang the full programme
of his campaign on a tree outside his camp—for
obvious reasons.
Judkins, in his capacity as editor of the
Review of Reviews, wrote of the Federal elec-
tions :—“ But by the good providence of God the
right in each case won; and Mr. Davidson in
Maribyrnong, Mr. Bedford in Bourlre, and Mr.
Solly in Batman, got such fearful political hidings,
that the figure of a whipped cur slinking away
from a combat with his tail between his legs
becomes a wholly inadequate expression. Their
defeat was disastrously complete,” etc. Now, it
is interesting to note that Judkins at Brunswick,
a month or two later, scored a smaller proportion
of the total vote than did Randolph Bedford at
Bourke (which includes Brunswick), so that if the
right won in each case, the Lord must have been
fighting on different sides at each election, and
Judkins, to use his own imagery, was the more
decidedly whipped cur slinking away from the
combat with the more abbreviated tail between
his little sectarian legs. If it was Providence
that defeated Bedford rather badly, it must also
have been Providence that defeated Judkins so
much worse, on the same ground.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal . “Raffles.”
Criterion “ The Village Blacksmith.”
Town Hall Jessie Maclachlan Concerts.
Palace “ Dr. Wake’s Patient.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
Exhibition Ground Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Co.: “ Lohengrin
and “ Romeo and Juliet.”
Her Majesty’s “Parsifal.”
Theatre Royal “Revenge.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. Dreamland.
4.
Somebody deserves to be fined ss. and
costs for committing “ The Village Blacksmith.”
But the question is who should pay the fine?
William Anderson, when you put him in the
dock, pleads justification, and brings in his
ticket-office manager to swear that he had to buy
a large tin trunk to carry the takings home from
Sydney Criterion on Saturday night. If the Court
holds that Anderson’s business is simply to fill
the house and his own banking account, he will
have to be discharged without a stain on his
character—which is about the only thing that
could go through a season of Andersonian melo-
drama without being splashed with gore and
grimed with gunpowder smoke. If you run
in the original perpetrators of the thing,
they plead justification too, and point to Anderson,
who not only buys their assorted crimes, but
makes money out of the transaction. The only
other people to charge are the actors and Anderson’s
public; and in any case some of the former deserve
to be fined half-a-crown at the least. What to do
with Anderson’s public, which apparently likes this
sort of thing, is the problem ; and it ought to know
better than to present itself during holidays, any-
way.' Under those circumstances it is hung up,
and will be dealt with later on.
• * * *
There is hardly a situation in “The
Village Blacksmith ” that isn’t ridiculous when
you view it calmly—if you can view it calmly.
The whole trouble starts with hero Cross making
the usual melodramatic ass of himself, and throw-
ing off Miss Duggan, his devoted wife, on evi-
dence that even a Sydney magistrate wouldn’t
accept from a constable in a police-court case.
Miss Duggan, being “cast off,” makes a prompt
re-appearance in a black frock. The obvious
moral is that even the most virtuous married lady
ought always to keep at least one black frock on
the premises, so as to make a becoming re-entry
to the world after a row at home. Some make it
in a black eye, but that is vulgar. Then Miss
Duggan takes her five-year-old cheild to her knee,
and asks him to promise that he won’t believe
what the world says about his mother ; and the
wise cheild says he won’t. Of course Cross
finds out in the fourth act that he
has made an ass of himself, and that the
lady (who meantime has spurned the bad
man) is innocence itself. At first the perpe-
trators apparently had the idea that they would
make the villain pursue her for the sake of her
charms; but, on reconsideration, they threw in
£lO,OOO, of which the villain is the custodian.
This obviously allows of forgery being easily
added to the other crimes that chase one another
so hard that you can generally see the horns of a new
infamy approaching before the tail of the oldsin has
gone off. Finally, the hero and the villain (who
is Laurence Dunbar) meet for a settling-up ; and
then there is at last a vein of originality. Dunbar,
a “ strong man,” takes on an unknown in a wrest-
ling bout—or, if it isn’t Dunbar, it ought to be,
though probably it isn’t. They put up a willing
“scrap” on the mat; and, when the unknown
has got a forward chancery or something on
the villain, and has thrown him and broken his
back nicely, it transpires that the victor is Cross,
the village blacksmith ; and badness has met its
just reward. All of Anderson’s people through-
out those proceedings do what Anderson’s public
expects them to do. Some of them have been
mentioned ; those who haven’t been, but deserve
to be, include Edmund Duggan and Ada Guild-
ford, who do better work than the average, and
their fines are remitted in consequence.
* *• * *
Julius Knight begins another course of
crime at the Royal (Sydney), next Saturday night,
when he will give oyer waylaying the abbot and
robbing him in the woods, and turn his hand to
burglary instead. The abbot in “Robin Hood,”
by the way, brings back to the bills an old stock
actor whose name isn’t too often read there—Rege
Rede. On his reappearance he quakes realistically
in the presence of the highwayman In “Raffles ”
Julius Knight will, for the first time here, have
the support of Miss Marion Grey ; and though she
can hardly be a more ornamental prop, there is
some hope that she will be a more energetic one
than the lady whom Julius has been rescuing for
the past three weeks.
* * * *
“ Mother Goose ” pantomime, still unfold-
ing its glories at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), is as
satisfactory a holiday bill as any manager could
offer or any holiday house could want. It is
cheerful, picturesque, and if you lose the plot for
five minutes thinking of the lovely time you had
picking the sand out of the sandwich at Manly,
or the ants out of the sugar at Coogee, or prod-
ding the infuriated mother pig at the Show, it
doesn’t matter ; you can splice the two broken
ends of the plot yourself, and it will look
as good as new. Florence Young’s infectious and
robustious gaiety just suits the holiday spirit—
the spirit that drives the £3O-a-year- clerk to call
for three-penny icecreams all round, and hang the
expense. Monday afternoon by 5.30, two hours
before the doors opened, the police had marshalled
a procession of early-door waiters that stretched
50 yards around the Pitt-street corner into
Market-street, and there was a smile on the
ticket-boxes that doesn’t look as though it will
peel off for two months at least.
* * * *
“Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace” will scintil-
late finally at Sydney Palace on Friday. On
Saturday, “Dr. Wake’s Patient ” will be revived
and be made to sit up and take nourishment.
* * * *
Wonderland City will go into limbo about
the end of the present month. To be accurate,
the City itself will have a winter sleep, and its
inhabitants and shows will migrate on wheels to
the townships of the Commonwealth. Ander-
son’s theatre and circus and hippodrome and
menagerie will go on the open road and railroad,
and through blacksoil and other plains.
j&S, 'A' aR
*t* d* Iff W
Why Anderson’s wreck never transpired at
Wonderland City (Bondi, N.S.W.) has been a
much-discussed topic, and one largely accepted
explanation was that the Law notified Anderson
that the penalty for setting fire to a ship was
death, and in the event of any of the people en-
gaged in the exhibition being accidentally fried
or drowned, there would be a case to answer
However, it turns out that was not the explana-
tion. The Yankee sensationalist who devises
these hair-raising ideas for Anderson engaged a
wrecker—there are wreckers in Sydney, and it is
quite an honorable profession—and this person
of the evil-sounding occupation was to
bring his hulk right up against the shore.
All day long the Sensationalist sat, like
Xerxes, on a rocky brow that o’erlooks Tama-
rama Beach. As the hours wore on, and the
time for the performance drew' near, he began to
make remarks about Sydney wreckers. By sun-
set he was convinced that they couldn’t wreck a
home among them. Then the doomed craft hove
in sight, but as it came to a dead stop half a mile
out the Sensationalist began to clothe himself
with curses as with an overcoat. Hfe went down
to the beach and, braving the breakers, rowed out
to the wreck, and tried persuasion. The wrecker
said it was impossible to get closer. Then
the Yankee gibed, but the wrecker wiped
his forehead, and remarked cheerfully that
it was no go—the boat wouldn’t climb
rocks. The Sensationalist offered to rig up
a hauling plant, and drag the blessed wreck
clean over everything ; but the wrecker looked at
the sky, glanced at his watch, and said something
about bad weather and tea-time approaching. He
also remarked that he was a family man. By this
time the Sensationalist was too mad for argument,
and he rowed to the shore in disgust, while the
wreck sailed back to Sydney. However, the
chances are that the tragedy will yet transpire.
Soundings are being taken, and another attempt
will be made to bring the hulk in sufficiently
close to make the conflagration visible from all
parts of Wonderland.
** * *
West’s Pictures and the Brescians per-
formed at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday night to
an audience that looked glued together in its
packedness. There was not much flicker, and
many new films. Illustrations of the Maori-
land Exhibition will be greatly appreciated
by those who hunger after knowledge. Mr.
West himself got the views of the opening
ceremonies at the psychological moment, and he
also gathered in certain war dances and hakas.
The song and strum part of the entertainment
fulfil the promise of the advertisement fairly well.
** * *
Miss Jessie Maclachlan filled Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday night with song and audience.
Since her last warble here, eighteen months have
passed, but her congregation was as an old friend,
and she knew it. Amongst her many items pro-
grammed, and encored, was an Irish folk song,
discovered -by her in Ireland since her last visit
here. “Sho-heen Sho” is the name of the find.
Its refrain is “Sho-heen Sho,” and it has a dan-
gerous catching sound, like Mark Twain’s “Punch,
brothers, punch with care, punch in the presence
of the passenjare.” Anyway “ Sho-heen Sho ”;
which was softly sung, was worth the journey to
Ireland to excavate. Douglas Young, the new
tenor who accompanies Miss Maclachlan this
trip, lifted up his pleasant voice in “ Afton
Water,” the “Lea Pig” and “ The McGregor’s
Gathering,” and the usual grasping audience de-
manded more. Mr. John M’Linden, ’cellist, and
Mr. Robert Buchanan, pianist, are still with
the co.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus is still booming along-
roaring along, in fact—and the country cousin
who came to see the high jumping goes out with
his mouth still agape at the eccentricities of Hugh
Patrick Lloyd. There is an impression that, if at
any time Hugh gets tired of trying to split him-
self in two on his villainous-looking rope, he can
go to the country and earn a solid crust and a
roof teaching the unbreakable colt that there is
something on this earth that can’t be thrown.
Another item of wild hilarity is a miniature buck-
jumping show, in which a substantial prize is
offered to any boy who can stay a stated time on
a pony about the size of a large dog. So far no
boy has stayed. On Saturday next an entire
change of programme will take place, though
what in the name of the Evil One Hugh Patrick
Lloyd can do that he has not already done, only
the said Bad One can possibly suggest.
* ifc * *
The Charlenes and little Joseph with the
song-bird in his throat have been the bright stars
that have brought the wise men to the Tivoli
these last few nights. Nellie Kilburn has added
her playful kick to the proceedings, and Eileen
O’Neill has been playing on things and getting
rare music out of them. It is a good bill—one of
the best —but breathing room in the house has
been strictly limited.
** * #
If an opera performance, which is an-
nounced by a flourish of trumpets from the out-
side balcony of the theatre, were bound to be
judged by the tone of that brazen advertisement,
the first production of “Lohengrin,” by George
Musgrove’s “Royal Grand” Co., at Melbourne
Princess’s, would call for aggressive criticism. If,
on the other hand, proclamatory fanfarade be re-
garded as harmless managerial blow, one may say
of Saturday’s performance that it was very satis-
factory, ail things considered. Better in some
respects than the “Lohengrin” of Musgrove’s first
co,, the one that had Louis Arens in the name part
and Mrs. Slap, (as a rule) for prima donna; but
weaker, at nearly all points, than the more-prac-
tised “Lohengrin,” wherein Berthald, Ella Rus-
sell, and Lempriere Pringle were new features.
The present orchestra, numbering about 40, will
doubtless improve on the first attempt, feeble in
the prelude and not much stronger afterwards.
The chorus will improve; nevertheless, it seems
safe to say right here that the chorus is a dis-
appointment, the vocal quality of the men being
as commonplace as their stage appearance, whilst
the girls are none of them so conspicuously valu-
able as the four who sang the parts of Elsa’s pages
aforetime. The human element in the picture
is not so picturesque as the other scenic appoint-
ments. Allowing for the difficulties that con-
front a German stage-manager in dealing with an
Australian crowd, it is unreasonable to suppose
that this chorus will ever prove quite as effective
as the one that set the standard of Australian
taste in “Lohengrin” impressiveness. The latter
part of the second act on Saturday fell far short
of expectation as regards its flow of song and feast
of spectacle. It was good, and the public that
really yearns for Wagnerian opera felt grateful
for what was provided—but it could have been
better.
■* * * *
The principals of the company, as many
appeared on Saturday, promise to do a lot of hard


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMINQ, Equitable Building, Sydney.
JIU-JITSU.
96 Queen-street, Woollahra,
Messrs. Fisher & Co., 7/12/’O6.
Dear Sirs, —Vim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials for a teacher of
Jiu-Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and pupils find FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE unrivalled as a tonic to
invigorate the whole human system. To combat the after and weakening effects of
influenza, I have found FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE invaluable to set me up good and
strong. I write the above to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any monetary
>: msideration whatever, and confirm the same on oath.
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest Medicines on earth.
PROF. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu-Jitsu Instructor to the Police
~ , ... of N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland,
Declared before me on oath—LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
THE MOST FAMOUS TONIC for Nervousness,
Indigestion, Headache, Loss of Memory,
and General Debility.
Fisher’s Phospherine
POST FREE. All Chemists, 1/-; Four Times the Quantity, 2/6.
SoiiK Manufacturers—
FISHER & CO., Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
artistic graft without getting hoarse. Miss Sara
Anderson, the Elsa of the occasion, has outlived
her youthful charms of face and figure, but her
pure soprano voice is fresh and sweet and very
sympathetic in expression. And she is an ad-
mirably untheatrical actress, who imparts the
spirit of the scene to her audience, and holds one’s
attention without any display of effort in the
grip. There are two Elsas, also two Lohen-
grins in the company. The glittering Knight
on Saturday was Mr. Oeser, a tall, shapely
tenor of somewhat hawklike visage, also
a quietly forcible actor with a strong ser-
viceable voice and a persistent tremolo—the
tremolo that seems inseparable from artists who
have toiled long in Wagnerian operas. Mr.
Rlinger (“ Herr” becomes a weariness), the bari-
tone villain of the fiction, falls a trifle short of
requirements in height and voice-volume, but is
more than merely passable. Mr. Mohwinkel, as
the King, is an artist of the same calibre, both of
them having a natural sweetness in their singing.
Miss Heinze, as Queen Ortrude of the ruddy wig
and lurid clothing, is a dramatic mezzo-soprano
who fills the bill ; and Mr. Greder, as the tall,
imposing Herald, unfolds a smooth, resonant
voice, of no particular kind. He might pass for a
tenor-baritone-basso.
* * * *
Sung in its native German, instead of in
English as before, the opera loses some of its
interest for Australian ears, although the lan-
guage seems to bring out all the virtue in the
vocal score. Many people would like to follow
the meaning of the action in the minor details.
Not that anyone can take Wagner’s narrative
very seriously. It is too steep. The Knight of
the Grail is partly superhuman, like Strephon, in
“lolanthe”—so far superhuman that Frederick
has no earthly chance of killing him—yet he
marries Elsa in an ordinary way, and would pre-
sumably have lived with her if she hadn’t
wanted to know what kind of a bridegroom
he was. And when he leaves her on account
of her human inquisitiveness, he makes some
small reparation by taking a swan from the
shafts of his aquatic vehicle and reconverting it
into Elsa’s long lost brother, who had been
swanated by the witchcraft of Ortrude. When
you remember that Lohengrin was content to use
his beloved Elsa’s relative as a bird of haulage
until he broke her heart, you can see no more
sense in the Knight’s holiness than in Ortrude’s
witchcraft, which enables her to change a boy
into a bird, but cannot avail to keep herself
and Frederick out of the wet. “Lohengrin,” all
the same, is a stately work of musical and decora-
tive art. Formerly it was a work of reformation
in opera, but since the Italian and French com-
posers began to adapt the Wagnerian method to
modern requirements, “ Lohengrin ” has dropped
rather behind the times, and its eccentric mys-
ticism seems unpardonable. “Romeo and Juliet”
is to be staged on Tuesday, too late for notice in
this issue, and repeated on Thursday. “Hansel
and Gretel ” gets a first show at the matinee on
Saturday.
** * *
The repetition of “ Lohengrin” on Monday
introduced Miss Barckow and Mr. Studemund as
the briefly-married couple. The lady has a
beauteous appearance and a pretty fair voice, but
her acting, to say the best of it, is only pleasingly
amateurish. Studemund is a rough, vigorous
tenor, who might play Falstaff without padding.
In contrast to the previous Lohengrin his per-
formance of the Mystic Knight seems fleshly and
portly, like his figure. The other principals im-
proved on their admirable first-night performance,
and the applause of the crowded house gave
further promise of a successful season.
** * *
As it becomes more widely known that
Parsifal was Lohengrin’s popper, the invin-
cible purity of the young man at Her
Majesty’s is viewed with growing suspicion. He
had to lose his remarkable innocence of women-
kind at some time or other, so he might as well
have married Kundry, seeing that she tempted
him, and there were no rival temptations avail-
able in the Holy Grail district, where the Rev.
Taylor located his deeply unaffecting mystery
drama. The high priest of the D—l was
a monomanic. His schemes for the ruin
of man began and ended with Kundry. No
beer and skittles, no envy, hatred or malice, no
gambling evil, no leaning towards burglary and
murder, no anything that is likely to bring a man
into any court of justice save the divorce court,
was put before the men of Klingsor’s period for
their demoralisation. It is Kundry or nothing for
all of them. When Kundry became Good, and
the fierv-headed Spear scooted back into respect-
able company, the D—l’s occupation ought to
have been gone, in which case the Rev.
would have lagged superfluous in his modern
pulpit. The soul of the present commentator
gets scant refreshment from “Parsifal.”
* *
On Good Friday night the Philharmonic
produced “Calvary” at the Town Hall, and the
homes of vaudeville had long programmes of
sacred song, but the big crowd went to the Exhi-
bition, where an alleged Passion Play was flicker-
graphed (“flicked ” forshort), with Actor Kingston
doing the Divine Voice out of the darkness,
after announcing that he did it “with diffidence.”
It was a harrowing thing, but with some wonderful
Asiatic scenes. Tittell Brune sat through the
play, but departed with a chastened air before the
concert which followed. Mrs. Hugh Ward sang
rather beautifully. Sick-man Roberts reappeared
in tremendous vocal form, and Norah Foley
strengthened the programme. Norah’s contralto
voice is soft and pleasing, and gives a sense of
good artistic restraint. Hal Elvins accompanied,
rather under difficulties, for most of the songs
were sung in darkness, and the meagre piano
lamp only glimmered now and then.
** * *
The durable popularity of the dancing
Bicknells is just now being tested again in Mel-
bourne, at the Opera House, where the bright
little pair are the latest arrivals. Hartley, the
juggling coolboy, Cassie Walmer, Bonita, Gracie
Grahame (who deserves a better song-writer), also
the young woman with the slothful snakes and
the Signor with the sprightly monkeys and dogs—
all these people and things are appearing as
before. Brinn, it seems, will be disappearing
shortly, and the four men who make an unneces-
sary display of labor in hoisting his stage property
will vanish at the same time.
“ Silvo ” writes of the recent Andersonian
production of “Camille” at Melbourne Royal:—
One observed that Camille, as essayed by Miss Eugenie
Duggan, had an alluring robustiousness —more of the
fast kitchen wench than of the passi courtesan.
Her voice, at times, was pitiful, thrashed to a fishwife’s
hoarseness. In passion, it reverberated like the rumbling
of tumbrils on cobblestones.
Again, she has a curious inflection of tone, a plaintive,
melodious tinkling in the articulation of last syllables— a
mannerism that is madness.
Many attempt the character of Camille with more or less
tribute from the press. But this Camille is not she to
whom one would say with a touch of dandyism, “ Ma’m’-
selle, you have shown virginity to be a crime.” Eugenie
is too volcanic an eruption of suburban prosiness.
From conversations overheard in the d.c., I am pre-
pared to state that (1) “ Camille ” is a comedy ; (2) George
Cross is lovely; (3) Eugenie wears nice dresses; (4)
Camille’s death is perfect burlesque ; (5) and what is it
all about ?
“ Camille ” is beyond Eugenie, and the altitude is too
absurd for Bilandersonian patrons.
Many thought it a joke and whispered it, and the
worst whispers came from the yards of humanity in fine
raiment.
One observed also our Armand strutting on rubber
heels; thephotographs of Eugenie and other stage persons
upon the chiffonier in the “salon”; our males, such as
Gustave, dressed in 1907 smartness ; our females like-
wise ; our elegant supers in the ballroom, the men like
cabmen, the women like crayfish dreams.
One also observed the hideous cowbell attached to a
string in the country house of Camille ; the house like a
prize “ studio ” design ; as also that some beast sneezed
just as Armand ejaculated “Dead!” over the corpse of
the lady.
One might also have observed that, with a couple of
exceptions, the acting was heroic, but unspeakable.
** * *
Easter and the Oafebank races brought
the usual rush of amusements to Adelaide. “ The
Cingalee ” is the same pleasant flow of melody as
of old, and Lauri adds to his part (already the
finest a comedian could desire) some clever “illu-
sion” burlesque. • Tivoli, Roughriders, and
Hippodrome (reopened) all make their appeal to
a holiday public; some new pictures devoted to
the glorification of Scotland have appeared at the
Town Hall; and the Real Ice Rink—which is
proud to remember that it was the first in Aus-
tralia—has got itself frozen and in going order
again.
AT POVERTY POINT.
One lady who was in the scramble for seats at the
opening of the booking for Musgrove’s grand op. season
in Melbourne complains of having had her ear trodden on.
No other explanation of this curious phenomenon is forth-
coming. Apparently, the lady had a very remarkable ear
for music—so remarkable, indeed, that it trailed.
“Foxhof”: I feel wet. I have fallen in. For weeks
agents for the German Musical Cult of Melbourne hung
around my office to ensnare me. They did it. Bait-
Grand Opera shares. Noiv, where am I? Tickets for
seats handed out by box-office lordlings (after my setting
the alarm for 5 a.m. to be first in) like unto raw meat to
A Dog. And what seats ! Next to the drums and cym-
bals. As I cannot stand the ’ Knight of the Holy
Grail spoiling the drummer and triangle juggler, I
have turned the seats over to Bridget Hanrahan,
my cook. Prospectus pushed under my nose when
promoters were hot on the cadge, read: “ Share-
holders will have the privilege of booking seats in
priority to the general public.” On opening of box office I
found that inspection of plan was refused point blank, so
I had to smile painfully and take what I was commanded
to. Worse than this, before uninfiuential nonentities like
me got a look in, some 40 odd seats had been ear-marked
for The Crowd—the push that “ works ” for Art and first
cut in all good things musical. Retiring, battered and
beaten, I met a fellow shareholder, also a despicable
nobody, minus power, with a little tuft of feathers on his
roof. He had just consulted his lawyer re asking the five
Judges of the “ I Concur Court ” to grant a mandamus,
or something equally fierce, to restrain Musgrove and the
German Army from filling the 40 snavelled chairs with
proud flesh and Pilsner. Result, nil. Instead of Easter-
ing in town, therefore, we go to the mountains in disgust,
and are wet, very wet. We take our scrip with us. The
co. has our cash.
The Rev. Hillhouse Taylor, the gentleman who “ did”
“Parsifal” to Williamson’s order, tells a Melbourne
paper that he intends to use the theatre to preach Chris-
tianity to thousands whcf cannot be reached thr ugh the
church. He hopes to reconcile church and stage :
The church is empty ; who can doubt
The lesson we infer ?
The parsons now would bring about
An empty theatre.
“ 0.M.G.” : Quite an affecting little scene followed the
first production of “Parsifal,” at Melbourne Majesty’s.
Some people remained to offer applause, and Kundry
came out and bowed, and smiled, and pressed her heart,
and looked piteous, as Miss Brune always does when im-
plying that the strain of her great task has been almost
too much for human endurance. Then the Rev. Hill-
house Taylor came out, and there was some more
applause, and the Rev. Taylor bowed ; after which he
made gestures implying that the credit was all Miss
Brune’s, and Miss Brune made gestures which implied,
“ No, no. You did it. The glory is yours.” But Mr.
Taylor wouldn’t have it at any price ; he made more
gestures, insisting that Miss Brune had raised his p<vr
work to the heights by her dazzling genius. Then the
manager came on, and he got applause, and he bowed
and made gestures implying that he was a mere nobody,
the honor and glory all belonging to the other two; but
the other two responded by signalling, “ No, no, not at
all. Mr. Williamson is the dazzling master who has
worked all these wonders.” This went on for several
minutes. It was a magnificent object lesson on self-
abnegation.
“ A.W.S.” : I fancy “ M.” (28/3/’O7) is a bit out when he
says that “ Mother Goose ” takes second place in the
longest-run competition. I attended the 103rd perform-
ance of “ Florodora ” myself. Dampier holds the record
for melodrama by staging “ The World Against Her ” at
the Alexandra for 11 consecutive weeks.
“Yawn”: In a “ Poverty Point ” par “S.” discusses
Carton’s “Mr. Hopkinson,” recently produced in Mel-
bourne. After gracious j remarking that “it is perhaps
the best thing Hugh W ard has done in comedy,” he
passes the actor a nasty one with his left by adding :
“ But it is over-acted. Points are strained, and vulgar-
isms are stressed as if they called for a particular effort
on Hoppy’s part, whereas these things are quite natural
to the animal.” Wrong. Of course, the real Hoppy is a
little cad, out of whom vulgarity oozes naturally, but it
is also natural that when in strange surroundings he
emphasises his weaknesses. The nouveau riche from
Upper Tooting, when dumped down in Grosvenor Square,
tries to “make good,” and naturally becomes worse,
Instead of condemning Ward, this is a fine point to be
placed to his credit. He should be praised for his very
thorough interpretation of what is probably the most
earnesUy k.ckable bounder ever seen on the Australian
V S.T.S.” : Nellie Stewart tells interviewers that she is
going in for a steady course of Shakspeare, and she men-
tions in particular Portia, Ophelia, and Juliet. But why
not Cleopatra? I am open to wager that she would
make the finest Egyptian of this generation.
Encouraged by the success of “ The Squatter’s
Daughter,” Edmund Duggan and Bert Bailey have
arranged to collaborate with Ambrose Pratt, the per-
petrator of “Thunderbolt,” in the dramatisation of
Pratt’s latest book, “The Counterstroke,” and “Master-
stroke,” and some similar “stroke.” It’s beginning to
take as many people to write a melodrama nowadays as
it does to manufacture a musical comedy.
. „ ... , . . J , . ~ , .
Micawber : After being given a very fair trial in
Melbourne, the much-boomed “Kweeries” were promptly
dropped after arrival at Sydney Tivoli. Yet, according
to the advt. (which doesn’t appear to have lied), they
were brought all the way from London. Audiences
wouldn’t take them seriously this side, anyway. Rickards
had one worse experience than even that. It was with a
man who had been a member of Harry Conor’s Trip to
Chinatown co. His specialty was song-and-dance. On
his first and final appearance, the “turn” went some-
thing like this“ When yer ain’t got no money, well
yer needn’t come around—(’Ell!—why don’t you smile
or do something?)—for you ain’t the only coon in
S' ?t? r 7- s sa C u’ L a ?’ or do something ) ” Realis-
ing that the audience had frozen, the “coon ” retired m
the middle of the “ song.” That was his last appearance
in Australia. But a briefer season was that of a ladv
billed as the Hungarian Chanteuse, at the Palace. On
the opening night (a Saturday), the gallery boys
“ chiacked ” her to such an extent that she retired in dis-
gust, and left for Hungary, or wherever her home was, by
Monday’s boat. (In those days, the ketch for Hungary
always left on Monday.)
“ N.L.” : Admitting that the Good Friday “sacred
concert ” is a solemn, religious affair, and that it would be
sacrilege for the serio to high-kick on that day, why is the
sanctified effort always advertised in the “ Amusements”
column? Why doesn’t it appear under “Religious
Notices” 7
“ N.L.”: I regret to observe in the papers many blun-
dering guesses concerning the objects of Vic. Premier
Bent’s trip to Europe. I have it on the worst authority
that he goes to study singing under Marchesi.
“ Disillusioned Doris ”: I’m glad to see somebody can
find romance in church baptisms (B. 14/3/’O7). I never
could. I have known many reverend members of baptis-
ing sects, but when these gentlemen were about to
immerse a newly-saved sister, they didn’t wear an
artistic white surplice, or any other kind of surplice,
They sported the very oldest clothing they could find—
togs which the average Weary Willie would refuse with
disdain. They were as expeditious as one of Rickards’
lightning-change artists in putting on these ancient duds
just before the ceremony, and getting back into their
decent ones after it, in time to shake hands with mem-
bers of the congregation as they filed out of church. The
church papers help to take the glamor off baptisms by
advertising “Our Splendid Baptismal Trousers, with
combination rubber boots, slaughtered at 18s. 9d.” How
? Sam th K e Ba P t,s *
pantsT g J C ° at and barffain ' PriCe baptismal
Gracie Grahame, the fascinating young lady from the
London ’Alls, now with Rickards, writes verse. Most
actresses write nowadays. Some of Gracie’s poetry is
frightfully sad, and not at all in keeping with the joyous
aspect of the authoress, who seems glad to be alive.
Something very fine and robustious in the way of melo-
dramatic heroes is promised by Edwin Geac’h for his
“Human Hearts’’Company, which will ravage Maoriland
before touring Australia. The actor in question is Ernest
Leicester, longtime of the Surrey Theatre, London, and a
most successful exponent of manly virtue with limelight
effects. It has been estimated that 100,000 Cockney
servant girls are “dead gone” on Edwin Leicester. In
such a drama as “ Human Hearts ’’ threatens to be, this
conquering hero should fill the bdl to the very brim—not
that bills ever have a brim. “Edwin Leicester in
‘Human Hearts’!” It sounds well. Romantic like,
Now, if the drama were “ Bullocks’ Hearts,” one would
rather have a leading man named Benjamin Butcher.
Not only does Ned Kelly, the Victorian hangee of half a
generation back, begin to wear a halo of heroism, but his
three mates commence to emerge and present distinctive
characteristics. Until lately the four were merely a
formless blob of blood and robbery against the back-
ground of history. One Kelly was as hangable as the
other, and, if a tree fell, it didn’t matter whether it
struck Steve or Joe, so long as it dropped on one of
them. Now, after 20 years or more, they cease to be
without form and void. Dan Kelly is humorously blood-
thirsty, and jokes commence to gather round him. Steve
Hart is devotedly heroic. Joe Byrne is still in a nebulous
state. He may develop into a young gentleman of old
family who had fled from home blighted by unjust
accusation, or he may emerge from the mist as a person
of sincere, but unobtrusive, piety, whose alleged connec-
tion with the Kelly crowd was all a dreadful mistake,
Almost anything may happen in the frenzy of Kelly-
ran ?f'’. ... p
A third Meynell and Gunn melodramatic company is
promised. It will be headed by Maud Hillyard, alleged
to have a big London reputation as a weeping heroine
who tells the villain to “ avaunt,” and assures him that
she would rather starve in a hovel as the wife of Harold
Montgomery St. Clair than share the guilty splendor of
Briggs. Turn bull. The co. is due in Australia late in
June, and the melodramatic square meals that are nro-
mised are “The Beautiful Fiend ” and “The Great
Awakening.”
To what base uses 1 The Baronet Clarke’s once-fine,
“ classy ” yacht, the Janet, is now a schnapper-flshing
cutter in S. Australia. The other day the crew caught
three monster sharks, and “ on arrival at Port Lincoln
jetty the shrewd captain made a canvas room on the
forepart, and charged 6d. to adults and 3d. to children
to view the menagerie, with its gaping jaws and immense
teeth. Many came away with some good specimens of
the teeth, which the captain sold at a cheap rate.”
While Acting-Prime Minister Forrest is in the business
of repatriating stranded Australians in Africa, something
might be done for the Australian singing girl in London
—the one who wept away with a benefit concert, and the
bouquets of her friends and admirers, and hasn’t been
heard of since. In many cases she must be cruelly
anxious to get back, and if an unobtrusive hand reached
over her shoulder with a ticket for God’s good country,
a good many of her would just weep for joy.
A learned S.M. at Petersburg (S.A.)
has given the local police a heavy dose of Law.
They had caught certain people playing cards in
a hotel on Sunday, and the Act allows no “bib
liards or any other game” in hotels on Sunday, so
it seemed to be only a question of the size of the
fine. But the S.M. struck a new and surprising
patch. The clause means, he says, “billiards or
any other game of that kiwi ” —such as pool or
bagatelle. “Then why didn’t it say so?” asked the
police. “If all games whatever are barred, why
were billiards mentioned at all?” retorted the
S.M. And he had the last word. So Bridge or
euchre is, for the moment, safe on Sundays in
hotels at Petersburg, though it might not be safe
to try either of them within range of another
court.
Rournania boils over with revolution.
Away back in the early 60’s the little State tried
to settle a great land problem by the compulsory
purchase of one-third of the lands from a drunken
and ignorant nobility, and these scraps of soil
were sold to the small farmers, who mostly lived
underground in caves, at a very reasonable figure.
Also, so far as that third of the country was con-
cerned, Rournania made most useful and sensible
laws to prevent the big estates accumulating
again. Unfortunately, the comparative comfort
and happiness of the small farmers who are pro-
prietors of the land they cultivate, only serve to
accentuate the misery of the great mass who are
tenantsof the big landlords, and these latter, ground
to the dust by tremendous exactions, have risen
with a fixed resolve to cut the big landlord in
three pieces. There has been a good deal of
breakage in the process. Finance Minister Jonesco
(not Smithko) estimates the breakage, or smash-
age, at £4,000,000 up to date.
An unusual occurrence took place recently
in the Economic gold mine, St. Arnaud (Vic.).
The last 50ft. of the shaft, which is being un
watered after lying idle for many years, is filled
with tailings, used in bygone days for “ mullock -
ing” the workings. Two miners, Humphries and
Peterson, were down below when they heard air
or gas bubbling furiously through the slush.
Fearing foul air, they started up the ladder way,
but hadn’t got far when a tremendous explosion
took place, filling 30ft. or so of the shaft with a
mass of flame, mingled with mud and shouts.
Strangely enough, the badly-shaken men were not
killed ; they reached the plat above before caving
in, but Humphries was very badly burned.
Apparently the cause of the trouble was the
escape and spontaneous combustion of some
explosive gas formed in the bottom workings, and
as these workings are fairly extensive, and Heaven
only knows how much more lyddite Nature has
stored there, the mine is at present viewed with a
certain amount of suspicion. Luckily, the British
investor that we hear so much about wasn’t down
the mine in person. If he had been, he would
probably have come up like an express monkey
and run howling for the coast, and then the
dreadful spectacle of capital leaving the country
would have been witnessed at last.
Somewhere in the advertising pages will be
found particulars of the second subdivision of the
famous Normanb.y estate, 46 miles from Brisbane (Q.), of
which 6000 acres will be sold by auction on June 1. The
land contains fine lucerne flats with good agricultural
ridges and splendid shelter. There are creeks,
a rainfall of 36‘66 inches, close proximity of a
large and growing market, and railway com-
munication, good roads, no floods, and other
attractions that delight the heart of the man who wants
to go on the land. Also, there are dairy factories and
creameries within a few miles. The land is offered on
unusually liberal terms, one-tenth cash and the balance
in 10 annual payments at 5 per cent.*
N.S.W. isn’t only a cantankerous State to
the Federation. It has a childish habit within
its own limits of biting its own nose to get even
with its face. There is always some petty little
row between one Government department and
another. The latest is between the Public Works
Department and the Water and Sewerage Board
as to whether some rotten vegetable matter
should be removed from the new reservoir. No
one outside of Callan Park could argue against
the Water and Sewerage Board’s contention that
the decayed vegetable should be removed ; but
the Board, when it said the thing ought to
be shifted, seems to have made the remark
in not quite the proper tone of voice, and the
Department of Works—which, in effect, is the
Carruthers Government —got nasty, and won’t let
the collapsed vegetable go. The result may be a
serious epidemic among the people who have to
drink the water. But that’s a trifle to the uneasy
dignity of a N.S.W. public department. The
last previous row between two N.S.W. depart-
ments was over the question whether a certain
small sum should be paid by the people in one
capacity (represented by one department), or in
their other capacity (represented by another
department), and it ran into a shocking amount
in Costs. This row seems likely to end in a shock-
ing outlay on funeral expenses.
OUR SONGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our land is tented with a sky
Whose radiance mocks the thought of gloom ;
Its vyide lands glad and sunlit lie,
Bright colors in its forests bloom ;
Its air fe full of that warm fire
That to a land of mirth belongs,
Which lights the heart with life’s desire ;
And yet ’tis full of mournful songs.
Its nights are glorious with the stars,
Or splendid with the golden moon ;
While music sweet on river bars
Or beaches white the waters croon,
Or winds in forests make ; each thing
No sorrow has, though passion throngs ;
And yet whene’er its people sing
Its nights are full of doleful songs.
No soul into these songs is thrown,
But habit turns them to such rhyme*
It is a music not their own,
A heritage of sadder climes ;
Our poet imitates and hums
The story of his father’s w'rongs ;
So, till another singer comes,
The land is full of mournful songs.
Our land is full of foreign songs,
Of sorrows alien to our mirth;
Our poets should, where gladness throngs,
Sing of the pleasures of the earth.
Oh, for the rhymer who will voice
The gay note that to us belongs
In songs to bid the heart rejoice,
For I am full of mournful songs !
N.S.W.
HAMER.


jjeafness Official Tests
'T'HE Official Investigations of the Deaf are well described
* in the “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of the inner ear ;
the Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &e., &c.,’
and how to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful BAROSCOPE. ’’
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better, &nd my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried ; all complications
have entirely, disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE ” 'CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
If your liver is sluggish and out of tone,
and you feel dull, bilous, constipated, take a
.dose of Chamberlain’s Tablets to-night before
retiring, and you will feel all right, in the
morning.*
HI
11
r
PRINT YOUR NEGATIVES ON
ALWAYS FRESH.
AFTER THE
HOLIDAYS..
Paper and
Post Cards
MADE BY EMPIRE WORKS CO., KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
We cannot sufficiently impress upon photographers generally the excellence of
the ARTLYTE Photo. Paper. It can be printed in an ordinary lamp-lit or gas-
lit room, and also developed independently of a dark-room. It is the PAPER PAR jj
amateur. It gives Rich Black Shadows, and Beautiful High White Lights. It tones easily to au a r
colors. It gives sparkling pictures from even poor negatives. All workers who try it find it ttEKrEu •
is not a NEW introduction, but paper that has stood the test of the market for many years.
IN ALL REGULAR SIZES
AT POPULAR PRICES.
Empire Chemical Cartridges, for Developing Artlyte,
are the simplest and best; 4d. per Cartridge. Box of 4at 1/d.
Principal
Distributors-
HARRINGTON ff GO., Ltd.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And 98 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
All Best Brands of Papers and Materials Kept in Stock.
SOCIETY
Ballarat put in a calamitous 24 hours last
week, A boy sWimmitlg in the baths Went uhder
suddenly, and though repeatedly dived for, he
stayed Under till recovered with the police
grapples 20 minutes later. A valuable horse
selected the busiest crossingas a convenient place
for suicide, and, leaping into the air, smote the
street with its skull. Its remains blocked the
traffic for quite a while. There were four or five
fires in quick succession, and frantic firemen on
bikes collided with small boys and things, and
fractured themselves. A hotel was burnt to
ashes before the eyes of a large and thirsty
audience, which watched the beer “go aloft”
with mixed feelings. The Bank of Victoria
opened as usual in the morning, but the gas had
been left turned on in the strong room, and when
the accountant and the teller struck a match to
look for it, it blew the accountant hard against
the manager . and drove the teller through a
wooden partition. By this time the fire bell was
worn out, half the firemen were lame, the local
kid was frayed to rags and had run himself off his
feet, and Ballarat was quite exhausted through
lack of sleep.
AN ARDENT LOVER.
RIA: “ What's the matter , Liz—you look quite
broke up?"
LIZ: “ Had a little argument with me bloke , when
he ups and goes for me proper , just the same
as if we were married. He's getting too for-
ward, that's wot he is.”
The attractions of a 44 stiddy job ” ! Col-
lingwood (Vic.) Council lately advertised for a
dog inspector, at £2 10s. a week—more than some
Vic. councils pay their secretaries or engineers.
It got 56 applicants. The most disgusted of the
lot was a friend of Judkins, who resigned his seat
on the council in the sure and certain hope of
getting the dog billet—and didn’t get it.
The amazing feature in the case of
Varischetti, the Italian who was weather-bound
in the mine at Bonnie Vale (W.A.), "’as the
heroism of divers Hughes and Hearne.
Varischetti was in his dramatic position
because he couldn’t help it. Hughes and
Hearne deliberately courted their terrible
adventure. Hughes’s struggles make fasci-
nating reading. A flooded mine* with im-
prisoned air bursting its Way throtlgh at all
manner of unexpected places* and slopes ahd
drives falling in and becotnihg tnudety debris, is a
dangerous place for a man whose life depends Oil
keeping his air tube clear of entangleinehts..
But these two men took the chances* and
Hughes scrambled over mountains of sludge* silt
and ruins* sometimes Up to his Waist in slitne that
Stuck like glue* till he reached the end of the
drive* where he found the tube of Varischetti’s
fdek drill* His lines Wduld not allow, him to go
further* SO, having. Satisfied faimSelf by shaking
the drill tube that VaHsbhbtti WaS aliVe* lib made
fast a guide line and started on the return
journey. Four hours later, he made another
attempt, and this time was further handicapped
by a load of food and comforts for the imprisoned
man. Struggling through that sea of mud he
lost his heavy boots, and his feet flew up and
struck the top of the drive. He had a
huge struggle to get his boots again. After
that, with the consciousness that the water
was pouring out of the mine, and with a light,
food, drink, and smokes, Varischetti’s lot became
more cheerful, and he announced that he was as
strong as a horse. Hughes, however, seems to
have known better. He knew what it was to
struggle through that awful mine, and jumped
on every proposal to bring the prisoner out
through the water in a diving dress. So Vari-
schetti remained till he had passed, in all, 10
days Under water. Then Hughes came down
dressed like a, human being, and half carried and
half dragged him through the sludge that lay
between the top of the drive and the cage. In
the cage the Italian collapsed, and reached the
surface and the sunlight an utter wreck, though
at time of writing he is making a slow recovery.
* ★ * *
The Argus, in a bit of fine writing dealing
with the entombed Italian, Varischetti: “The
present rescue is one of the most unique in mining
records. In fact* it is the first of its kind.” Now,
if a thing is Unique it stands alone, and a thing
can’t be more alone than just alone. Further,
the Unique incident is the one incident, conse-
quently being the one and only, it can’t be any-
thing but the first of its kind. Furthermore, as
the man was Still in the mine when these remarks
Were written, no rescue had been effected, so that
the ArgUs sentence is probably Unique as a sam-
ple of condensed inaccuracy.
“ Snell ” : The case of the Italian miner,
Varischetti, entombed at Bonnie Vale, Westralia,
again illustrates the fondness of the press for fine
dramatic situations. Hardly a year passes without
a miner finding himself just as miserably situated
as Varischetti, and perhaps it is merely a differ-
ence of emotional temperament that makes the
person of British descent bear his troubles better
—where it is possible to discover how his mis-
fortune affects him. Varischetti had his regular
visitor, though an apparition in a diving
helmet is a pretty ugly visitor; he had
light, food, water, tobacco, and something like a
certainty of ultimate rescue. I am certain that
the ordinary Australian miner of British blood
would have accepted such a situation almost com-
placently. Take the case of the man buried in a
drive at a mine near Nagambie (Vic.). He had to
be dug out, his chances of being found alive were
the remotest, but when a pick let the good air in
to him at length, he gasped the atmosphere into
his lungs, and, as the rescuers raved about him,
he said, “All right, boys, all right; don’t make
such a damned fuss about it.” This case never
got into the papers at all.
* • * *
Fremantle (W.A.) Harbor Trust is a weird
concern which runs its finances in a pretty satis-
factory way and does little else of much account.
Its chairman is the boss stevedore of the port of
Perth, and most of the members are men of the
same degree of independence and even less know-
ledge of seamanship. Naturally it does some
comic opera things. Thus, the other day, it in-
quired into a collision between a yacht and a
paddle steamer in the river. The steamer had
evidently overlooked the yacht, and the results
weren’t comfortable for that cockleshell, which
tried to get out of the road when danger
threatened and when it saw that the steamer had
overlooked it. Then the stevedore chairman
vehemently informed the yachtsman that it
wasn’t his place to try to get out of the track of
impending death. The yachtsman said he knew
that, but he didn’t want to perish just then. It
wasn’t his regular day for perishing, and he hated
to be untidy and die out of his turn. “We might
have lost our lives,” he wailed. “ Then who would
have been to blame?” demanded the stevedore
chairman ; and the fact that it isn’t much satis-
faction to a dead man to know that the other
fellow was responsible hasn’t apparently soaked
into the head of that chairman yet. There-
fore the Trust sternly remarked that it was
the duty of sailing men to let steamers do the
thinking for them ; and when it was protested
that the steamer didn’t seem to have a ghost of a
think about it, the Trust remarked that those
were the rules, and people who went sailing should
know them, and it admonished the yacht accord-
ingly.
* * * *
The cry of ‘ ‘ The Moucher ” (Sydney) :
I have read wails from contributors re noisy neighbor-
hoods, and am constrained to mingle my tears with
theirs. Bottle-ohs, Wile Rabbis and Fish-ohs are bad
enough, but in our street we have music! Miss Matilda
Squawkins, over the way, opens the day with an hour’s
singing-practice. She is followed by sister Gertrude who
does two hours’ scales on the goanna. Then Miss
Priscilla Screecher, next door, tears anguish out of her
fiddle. This lasts two hours, and for all the sad, nerve-
racking, soul-destroying, broken-hearted wails that ever
were wailed give me the fiddle. After you have wiped
your tears from this last piece of grief, Master Percival
Howler-Jones, two doors away, recites something about
“Peace.” He is in the sentimental vein one day, is a
bellowing warrior another, and on a third he is a villain
or a pirate. Down at the local Lemon-squash League of a
night, they say he holds huge audiences spell-hound. In
our street young Howler-Jones is a very ordinary curse.
On my left is a pianola. Father has a go at it before
leaving in the morning ; the girls work it during the
day, and the boys shake it up in the evening. This brand
of melody is almost as trying as violin-practice. The
alleged music is so mechanically precise, so monoton-
ously correct, that one sighs for just one wrong note to
break the hideous exactness of its tones. Everybody
plays something in this street. At night they all strike
up after tea. I have listened at many a “shearers’
night,” and the songs and “ turns,” though not of the
highest culchaw, still were head and shoulders above
the best in our highly-trained street. I think the
“ uppah fe\v ” train all the music out of themselves.
Anyway, I’ve given Miss Single-Bed notice.
•* * * *
“ F.” : Apropos that hospital yarn and
the coffins (B. 21/3/’O7). In the good-bad old
days a certain Observatory Hill (Sydney) resident
was the contractor for Government coffins. He
always kept a stock on hand, and when an execu-
tion occurred in the gaol yard, close handy, or a
death happened in one of the hospitals, he simply
carried down “a size.” If it wasn’t the right
size* the contractor had Ways of making it do.
ite uOuld get 6ft. of “ stiff ” into sft. 6in. of coffin,
if the axe held out, and eveii if it fiew off the
handle a bat-Ving knife ivotild Serve at a push;
His thboit ivas that dead tnett
wete all One size.
HIS DESERTS.
YOUNG ’UN: “ Well, how are you?”
OLD ’UN: “As well as I deserve, I suppose.”
YOUNG ’UN: “By Jove, old chap, if you’re as
bad as that you ought to see a doctor about it.”
‘ ‘ Martin Luther ” : A few paragraphs—to
be taken well mixed :
She had received 37 infants ; of these 33 died in the
house, and two in the hospital after being taken from the
house. One baby was taken from her by its mother, and
died in a fortnight. . . . She also told him if he gave her
£lO and 10s. a week she would, get rid of the child for
him. She would stick a-hatpin in its heart.— Evidence at
the Coroner's inquest into the Perth baby-farming horror.
“We must fight Rome.”— Venomous Snowball, Irre-
verent Tregear, and others.
“ I stand for God and Empire.”— Little Willie Knox,
M.H.R.
“ Mr. Judkins stands for righteousness.”— S. Ma.uger.
“ God has given us work to do.”— Self-advertiser
Worrall.
“ A foundling hospital would offer a premium to im-
morality. ’’—The parson class generally.
“ Feed my lambs,” — Christ the forgotten.
* * * *
“ Pterodactyl ” writes
What a tangled state the N.S. W. Education system is de-
generating into, and what a miserable, unhappy, worried
life the teacher is living at the present day! He is blighted
by the thousand and one ridiculous fads and suggestions
of a handful of individuals in the Education Department.
Our new fad-laden system is going, to, turn out a multi-
tude of illiterate beings with a faint smattering of many
things and a knowledge of none. Every day or two the
underpaid teacher is pestered with a circular containing
information regarding some new' derangement. This, in-
forms him that he is to regularly weigh, measure and
test the physical development of all his pupils (some-
times hundreds), and a thousand and one other things.
He is to make the premises into a nursery, experi-
mental farm, playground, and academy of wonders,
combined. The inside of the school is to show a library,
museum, picture gallery, and goodness knows what. He
is also to have a thermometer, rain gauge, scales, weights,
measures, etc. ; and after being directed to pay proper
attention to all these matters, is specially informed that
he must keep the essential subjects of reading, writing,
spelling, arithmetic, etc., ever in view. How he is to
attempt such a thing, Heaven only knows. You will
naturally wonder u'ho supplies the above-mentioned
instruments, apparatus, pictures, etc. Not the Depart-
ment. The unfortunate teacher has to worry over
concerts and such entertainments—practically to beg
and cadge from the community. Is there any other civil
servant in the Commonwealth so situated ? If the dude
in the Sydney Lands Office had to cut his own ruler from
a tree, and to pass the hat of beggary up and down
Bridge-street to get the wherewithal to buy stationery
and to repair his office stool, he would begin to under-
stand the situation. That is what we are expected to do,
and a lot of superannuated pedagogues who now call
themselves inspectors can’t see that we have any cause
to complain 1
“ Thomas Clodd ” : Dannevirke, a Danish
bush settlement in M.L., has the proud distinc
tion of possessing more prohibited persons than
any other Geyserland town. There are several
hundreds of people in this village, and sixtv-
nine of them mustn’t go into a pub, or the publi-
can will be fined and get his license endorsed.
Ihe citizens therefore do a brisk business in cart-
ting medical comforts to lonely bush spots in-
habited by one or other of sixty-nine persons who
never has company until the whisky comes. Then
he remembers he has seen that sort of company
tty mg to run off The Bulletin, but held on by
Bred Brown.
~ m
“ Haiitana ” : Had occasion to make a
short stay at a well-to-do north-western
town lately. Passing down the main
street I Was arrested by the sound
of music. Asked what was going
on, and was told it was a farewell
to the C. of E. parson, who was
leaving for fresh vineyards. "It’s
nice to see that kind of feeling
between the shepherd and his
flock,” I remarked. “It is,”
said the man in the street,
“only it doesn’t happen to
be his flock—it’s the R.C.’s
who are giving it to him,
and a presentation as well.”
Such was really the case.
The parson, a highly-edu-
cated man, didn’t put on
enough “dog” for his high-
toned congregation, which
consisted mostly of squatters,
bank managers, and the police
magistrate; and was often
found guilty of drinking a
cup of tea on a hot day with
people not of the same
“class.” Also, he was in the
habit of sitting up of nights
with sick people, and was
actually known to have gone
to the pub. and rescued
some drunken wretch
who wanted to commit
suicide. “So undignified
for a minister” they said,
and so the man who was
doing some good was
given the cold shoulder
and starved out. And
out of sympathy, or cus-
sedness, or irony, or some-
thing, the R.C. priest’s
following gave the dis-
carded parson a big send-
off. I will be uncharitable,
in order to please Dill Macky,
and assume that it was done
solely to aggravate the Anglican
flock.
J. W. Lomax writes re the old fortresses
of Footscray or thereabouts
Re par. on early buildings on Saltwater River (B.
14/3/’O7). Was reared in the district. The first building
mentioned was originally the residence of a Major New-
some. The ruined old-fashioned garden and house were
the subject of a painting (by McCubbin, I think) entitled
“ Deserted.” The fittings in the house were on the same
massive scale as the building, the mantelpiece alone
representing a ton or two of solid white marble. There
are several other residences in the locality with iron-
barred windows. The route to the diggings lay close at
hand, which may have had something to do with these
bars. The “ churchy-looking ” building with the spire was
built as a mission station for the blacks, but of later
years was used as a hash-house by the hands at the meat
preserving works and by quarrymen. A little distance
away is the grave of Fisherman, the celebrated race-
horse, which is buried On 0. B. Fisher’s once beautiful
estate.
A NEW USE FOR THE GYROSCOPE.
Sir William White, late Director of Naval Construc-
tion, reports that Schlock’s gyroscopic apparatus .ex-'
tinguishes the rolling motion of ships.— Cable.
“Now, don’t shay I’m rollin’, m’dear, ’cos (hie)
I’m fitted wiv (hie) Schlocksh’s gyroshcopic
happaratus.”
“N.”: How is this for a close shave? A man,
named Garrat, on the night of the 20th inst., fell
over a railway cutting near Katoomba (N.S.W.),
and lay unconscious till daylight. When picked
up next morning it was discovered that a passing
train had cut some of the foliage off his head with-
out doing him any injury. He was badly
damaged, but not by the train. Nowit is a fair
thing to ask the S.M. Herald if the train could
have dodged Garrat any more carefully, even if
the Herald’s little tin god, Johnson, were here ?
THE PREVALENT UNDRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When i behold fair Rose step forth
In summer finery arrayed,
I can’t but note that each year leaves
Less drapery upon the maid.
Collars she hath long- since disdained,
All unconflned her neck of snow.
And tantalising lattice-work
But half-conceals what lies below.
Her sleeves have lately shrunk into
Mere lilliputian puffs of lace
(The loveliness of Rose’s arms
Distracts my glances from her face).
Her skirts, too, seem a trifle high—
To balance the low neck perhaps 1
More open-work her ankles show.
The shoes she Wears are mainly straps.
I read about a damsel once,
To whom was made the strange request
That she should, to fulfil a charm,
Come neither naked nor yet dressed.
However, she, it seems, possessed
A fair amount of wit and lore,
So clad her in a fishing-net—
And happy lived for evermore.
And, though it may appear unkind,
And doubtless my rude nature shows,
Somehow this little fairy tale
Doth always make me think of Rose.
Vie,
SYD. C.


Chamberlain’s Tablets are indispensable to
all medicine chests. They aid digestion, promote
the appetite, stimulate the liver, keep the bowels
open, and restore all the internal organs to a
natural, healthy condition.*
We are justified in claiming that there is
no remedy equal to Angier’s Emulsion for coughs
and lung affections. No other remedy has such
a soothing, healing effect on the throat, lungs,
stomach and bowels, and no other remedy will so
invariably promote appetite, aid digestion and
build up health and strength. In three sizes, of
all chemists.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
OUT of TH€ ORPINARy
READY RELIABLE RIGHT.
THIS SUIT is all of these. The first suits your convenience. The
second gives you the worth of your money. The third gives you
the comfortable feeling that you are in good taste and style. In
this special Ready-for-Service Suit we have incorporated the latest
seam back and vent—the whole suit is an epitome of fashion and there
are few men indeed whom we could not please with it.
PRICES
45/- <a 47/6.
Without Seam
Back & Vent,
35/-
FILL
IN
THIS
FORM
AND
POST
TO US
Please send me Suit as above. I enclose .......
Chest Measurement for Coat Waist
Sleeve from Centre of Back to Wrist
Trousers , outside Seam length Inside Seam
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.
Men's and Boys’ Outfitters,
309=311 George St., SYDNEY
Sydney Tramway Department tried a
couple of double-decked cars on the dog last week,
«.nd if the dog has any sense he will snap vigor-
•ously. To begin with, the unsightly things are
dangerous on all but the George and Pitt Street
runs ; on the sharp curves of Castlereagh-street,
and on the Bondi, Waverley, and Coogee lines thev
would run great risk of capsizing. All that is
bad enough; but there is one horror greater
than all these. The second day the infernal
things were running in George-street a lady
was looking at one as it passed. She had
sm admiring light in her brown eye; ap-
parently she was thinking how delightfully
breezy it would be up there. Next moment all
•was horror, pain, and outraged dignity. A man
•on the top deck was smoking (perhaps the tobacco
•came through the tube, deponent knoweth not)
Put certain it is that he—well, it isn’t nice to say
what he did—and the admiring light died out of
the lady’s brown eye because she hadn’t closed it in
time, and she struggled desperately to find her
handkerchief to put it to her brown eye, and the car
went on, and the lady said in her anguish, as she
wrestled with her brown eye, that such an outrage
had never happened to her before. If the two-
deckers are to last, this sort of thing must be
made a hanging matter.
“ Fitz-William ” writes from a N.S.W.
inland town
Referring to an article in last week’s Bulletin, entitled
“ Anti-Wash,” I would like to bring forward some of my
own experiences since I struck the up-country districts
of N.S.W. To begin with, the district in which I am
settled is blessed with an ample rainfall. I came up here
with a view to suspending my shingle where the public
could see it. Took lodgings in a pub. Went down in the
morning and made inquiries for the bath-room. Was
directed. Stood under the shower with anticipations of
the usual result. No result. Complained to the barman.
“Didn’t know yer wanted water. Asked for the bath-
room, didn’t yer?” I inquired with heavy sarcasm
whether he thought I wanted to eat the soap. Paid 2s. 6d.
and got him to pump up sufficient water to enable me to
have my shower, and made arrangements for the future.
I stayed at that pub six months, and will make an affi-
davit that, during the whole of the time, I was the only
boarder, resident or other person who ever even entered
the bath-room. Now I have taken a house, and had to erect
a bath-room at my own expense, the owner saying that
he didn’t see what it was wanted for. The town has about
750 inhabitants and, after careful inquiry, I have been
able to discover only three regular bathers (or irregular
ones either for that matter). The rest of the population
seem to take a bath when they feel they need it. So, on
the strength of these facts, which I will verify by any
form of oath required, I deliberately challenge The Bul-
letin’s statement as to the cleanliness of the average
Australian, though I will admit that he is a dashed sight
cleaner than the average foreigner (including the English),
and I have seen a few.
HER BADGE OF OFFICE.
"Oh, mummy, you’ve got two wrinkles."
"No, Tommy, not wrinkles; these are my marriage
lines."
“Adelaide ” : Compare our sensible Uni-
versity constitution with that of Sydney, rightly
criticised in B. 21/3/’O7. Adelaide’s is very
nearly the ideal, as imagined in that article.
Council (governing body) elected by Senate (all
graduates of three years’ standing). Election for
four years only, five members retiring each year.
Professors eligible, if the Senate cares to elect
them; four out of the 20 are professors now.
Finally, two provisions which the stalwart old
founders insisted on : (1) No new statute or regu-
lation, or repeal of an old one, is of any force until
the Senate has approved it. (2) “ There shall
never be more than four ministers of religion
members of the said Council at the same time.”
Last week the Senate voluntarily elected to the
Council the Government’s Director of Education,
who was a State-school teacher till quite lately.
And four more of the 20 are city merchants,
without degrees, put there to stiffen the financial
side of the deliberations.
AT A SYDNEY HOTEL.
WAITER (slightly bustled): “Are you the boiled chicken, sir?"
“ Eros ” : Among the Australian products
and manufactures, at the Sydney Agricultural
Show, was Mary, the imported apostle of the
Christian Israelites. She had an art-muslin-
draped pen in the' main pavilion, and she sold for
silver coins a paper called Shiloh, and other
cranky literature. The people of Mary’s sect are
called Flying Rollers in America. They have
their headquarters somewhere in Michigan, and
preach celibacy and abstention from meat; also,
they believe they will live for ever, though none
of them have done so as yet. Why Mary should
be an exhibit at an agricultural show it is hard to
say. She was dressed in white, as usual; her face
was bloodless, and her faded grey hair hung down
her back, and she wore a white and gold em-
broidered antimacassar on her shoulders to give
her a prophetic aspect. Mary may live for ever,
but she looks as if she were already tired of doing
it, and her face is that of a woman who almost
thinks a little peaceful defunctness would do her
good.
* * * *
The abnormally fat man flicked off the
crumbs that littered his expanse of waistcoat, and
said “ Bah ! ” Then he took another biscuit, and
said “ Bosh ! ” After that, he gulped down the
rest of his whisky, and unburthened himself
thusly : “ These doctors talk a lot of blasted rot!
I felt a bit ‘ off ’yesterday, so I thought I’d drop
in and ask Blader to fix me up with a tonic. Well,
you know Blader’s style. He pounded and
sounded and
asked me a lot
of infernal old
woman’s ques-
tions about what
time I got home,
how much I
drank, and so on.
Then he told me
now what do
you think he told
me?” The little
gray man would
not hazard a
guess. “Remem-
ber,” said the fat
man, in a chok-
ing voice, “I felt
weak and run
down and gener-
ally all to blazes.
What do you
think the damn
fool told me to
do?” The little
ma n said he
didn’t know,
“ Well, he actu-
ally told me to
knock off half
my eating and
drinking— h alf
my eating and
drinking /” There was a pause. ‘ ‘Why, ” gasped the
monster, “the man must have been mad! —mad as
a damned March hare ! What I want is building
up—food—nourishment!” He rolled his blood-
shot eye in search of immediate nourishment, and
saw the biscuit-tray. With a final grunt of indig-
nation, he reached out a vast, podgy hand like
a bear’s paw, and raked out three biscuits.
* * * *
Some people are mighty suspicious. When
Bent’s electric tram-cars went up to Heaven in
smoke there were copper and silver coins—pro-
bably about £3o—in the conductors’ lockers.
After the blaze some of the coins were found
badly defaced, others had been melted into a
lump. An assay shows that a face value of only
£l5 has been recovered. The Railway Depart-
ment is muttering “incendiarism” in hoarse
tones, and points to the missing 15 quid as a
darksome circumstance. The lost cash doesn’t
justify the raucous murmur. Surely no one
would be ass enough to burn a tram-house for
15 quid when he could get 30 without burning
anything. He would be sacked from the Incen-
diaries’ Union.
The Law in Launceston (Tas.) has bumped
against the inscrutable ways of the unfathomable
Asiatic, and is, in consequence, at a standstill.
Thirteen men, whose name was Ah Sin when it
wasn’t Long Hop, were rounded up for running
and frequenting a gambling shop ; but when pro-
ceedings were about to start it was discovered
that of the three necessary witnesses one was
insane or said to be, another was dead, and the
third couldn’t be found anywhere. Of course,
there is no proof that the impenetrable Ah Sin
has been “arranging” matters, as he meets all
inquiries with the eternal “ No savee !” but there
is a well-grounded suspicion that all this good
luck for the accused didn’t happen without some
help. -
Gent One, or part of him, has had bad
luck before N.S.W. Full Court of late. And
worse luck is presaged by gloomy spots above the
horizon. In the case of one solicitor the Chief
Justice pointedly asked “Does the Attorney-
General intend to take action criminally ? ” The
answer was “We think so, but are not sure.”
“ Well,” observed his Honor, “will you make
inquiries?”
* * * *
Bumbledon ought to be kept out of hos-
pital management. At the Alfred Hospital
(Melb.) a doctor requisitioned for a nanny-goat in
full milk, that he might chloroform it, remove its
thyroid gland, and administer the same ■to a
patient suffering from “a certain serious and
intractable form of goitre.” This is the
“ thyroidectomised milk treatment,” originated
in Amsterdam, and adopted by many big
specialists. But the hospital board people squealed.
They said it was barbarous, and faddish, and
subversive of the British constitution. And at
latest advices every goat in Melbourne (and there
are many, including some on hospital boards) still
carried a thyroid gland in its neck, and the
patient’s goitre was still serious and intractable.
BOILED SPUD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Blank has given a prize of £2 2s. for the competitor
who serves up the best boiled potato.— Announcement
negardmg an exhibition.
Boiled spud !
Let fancy cooks with salmi and ragout,
Things braised and basted, turn their arts to you ;
Let the hare soup spread fragance with its blood ;
Sweetbread and mayonnaise aside I fling,
- And only ask this dainty for a king—.
The best boiled spud !
Boiled spud !
Hence with your oysters browned on wooden spits,
\ our liver-wings with cress, your sauce-drowned bits
Of kingly schnapper from the sandy flood ;
Take all your omelettes wrapped in curling flame,
Your ices and your anchovies ; I claim
The best boiled spud.
Boiled spud 1
Whose floury heart opens to fork and knife
Like Earth’s own bosom yielding forth her life,
While steaming wreaths toward your nostrils scud !
Quick with the salt! Butter or gravy,—which ?
(Or milk may better serve your palate’s itch ?)
What feast had Epicurus’ crew more rich
Than best boiled spud?
VIC.
L.
THE HAUNTED MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite his terrible sufferings from sea-sickness, Tommy
Bent found strength to sing a couple of comic songs on
the trip from Melbourne to Fremantle. During the
journey one man fell overboard.
The furtive man behind the mast,
Who crouched him down and dodged the sun,
Had brooded lone for six days past—
He had no truck with any one.
The people simply guessed that he,
To dodge his wife, had run to sea,
Or that, while from his home he fled,
His books were being audited.
Then Thomas sang his old-time song—
His voice would split at every trill—
And all at once the helpless throng
Were moved to be extremely ill.
The furtive stranger, wild of eye,
Arose. “ Great Heaven, this is why
I fled from Melbourne town 1 ” he cried,
And cast him headlong in the tide.
vie.
S.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Stray : Clever, but unsuitable E.M.D. : Too
slight a plot. Reminds us of a menu with the joint left
out or a dairy farmer without cows or children....
Camel: Sure you can spare that hump you gave us ? May
make a par of it... .F.R.8.: Like a hat-pin, it has a very
small and very obvious point.. ..P. B. Heffernan : Your
sermon is too 10ng... .W.P.B. : We have a great respect
for your god-fathers and god-mothers.., .Conrad ■: Waded
through five pages before we discovered that you were
only beginning. Send it to an encyclopaedia....Hugh
S. { Looks like a pathetic drawing-room ballad ..,.
R.J.I. : You complain that, up to the present, The Buh-
tiEtiN hasn’t damned your verse, merely dropped it; It
takes you fifteen stanzas to court a girl ; and a poet who
isn’t quicker off the mark than that has no chance With
us. “ Retrospection ” has good lines, but ho inspiration.
Do not despond... .Pat K. : Not deftly enough handled....
Jess Burns: The makings of a yarn ; but, for the ninth
time, oondense ! Also, don’t keep on “ drinking deep
delicious draughts of the fresh briny air”—you need
something more stimulating ; don’t roll up your MSS.,
and, for the tenth time, condense.. ..E. Clinch: Your
pathetic yarn never touched us Isabel Fitzgerald:
Your true story may be true, but it isn’t a story May
K. : One has a chance ; others, in your words, “ hasten,
hurry, hustle” towards the basket.. ..J.F.M. : A joyous
little thing that was bruptly slain by the weak ending
Rab Gray: Your Ode to Solitude found it Eissil :
We give you up... 8.C.W.D.: None quite good enough.
Some too girlish in plot, others too long-winded and
prosaic. You want imagination G.F.B. : Seems
merely words nicely put together.... George : Too dreary,
and goat-yarns should never be dreary Nilgo:
Not compact enough D.M. : Mere “ knock-about ”
humor—the sort of humor that consists in hitting
somebody o i the nose. Even that can be done
in a humorous manner, but you don’t do it
Aileen Moore : Verse a little too rocky. . ..Nibs : Promis-
ing, but too girlish ; might suit one of the weeklies.. •..
R. B. Thorburn : Just about as good as, and no worse
than, a dozen poems we receive every mail,,,, Bully Tene:
After two pages you remark, “ I suppose I'd better get
on with my yarn,” and, after seven pages, we find there
is no yarn. Re verse, rather think we could get
damages from you for putting it above that pen-name
G. Aimy : Never explain a ghost story ; there are only
three explanations to all ghost stories, and readers like
to take their choice. The explanation of your other yarn
is a grub, and a grub is a sordid and a disappointing ex-
planation to such a pretentious yarn... .Andrew P. Wau-
chope : “ Regrets”—we have none.. ..N.O.O’s: N-o-o 1
Phil G. : Reminiscent verse is so common that it would
have to be 18-carat. Yours is about nine....
Paddymelon : Has too many weak spots.. ..L.E.A. :
Somewhat feeble and ineffective Vivian: No literary
skill... .Rodonga : The humor is mechanical and labori-
ous. ... A. J. West: As a tribute to your pluck we piint
two alleged verses of the milk-vendor :
My voice I raise and loudly ball
at some five hundred houses
in scant attire they tramp the hall ,
some in nightgowns others trousers
The early customers are the best
as I catch him in his sleep
he never thinks the milk to test
his troubles are his frozen feet
....R.N.W. : Three items about the dead and gone
Brunswick election. Hardly worth the 4d. we had
to pay for deficient postage.... Supplejack : You are
rather behind the times. The Bulletin has already
declared against that scheme, though as the scheme
seems to have only two supporters, it was hardly worth
while Arthur B. : Its fate was the basket H.E.W. :
Deserting sailor yarn will make a par. Frivolous jest
about “oneblanky man one blanky vote” appeared in
Bulletin about 1891, and it has been sent in about once a
week since then from all parts of Australasia ; likewise
from Britain, South Africa, the United States and
Canada A. Flower (Agreenandshadybed): Sorry to
hear you are a young Tory. Hope that 75 years hence
you’ll be a good, old, solid, toothless Democrat.. Hwai :
Verses about cotton stockings down at heel aren’t nice
J.W.D. : Joke about Johnson fishing too obscure....
F.J.D. : No artist could get all these events into one
picture. You want a panorama C.E.S. : Nothing
staggering about “Practical Farming.” B.K. (Mary-
boro’): You must be a dull dog to take a joke in that
hair-raising manner T.McG. : Reads like very ordi-
nary lament over dead girl. We didn’t know the girl....
Chela: “Insomnia” has good points—and bad ones.
Your “songs” are stiff and unlyrical Comet: “To-
Day ” and “ Why Not ? ” are both very unequal in quality.
Calculating man too far-fetched. Did such a man ever
exist? Horse item referred to the financial editor, the
religious editor being out. “The Way” nearly got in.
....E.E.E.: There’s much truth in it, but it is hardly
well enough done.. ..8.L.: Good piece of verse, but it
has no present apropos Arthur G.: Fairly well written,
but rather out of our line.. ..W.G.: Hardly worth
print J. Wainford : Feeble and conventional... .Sis :
Didn’t quite catch on T.R. : We sympathise with you
in your affliction, and are sorry the screed doesn’t suit us.
Crusoe : Couldn’t do anything with that... .Emma :
Sorry it had no chance whatever Starlight: Pleasingly
written, but has no “grip.” Walker : Story wouldn’t
appeal much to anyone save an expert smelter who
could understand the point. Send it to the Smelter’s
Journal, if there is such a paper ylineas : “Happier
Anywhere ” is a good scrap of verse, but the prose jest it
Is built upon is so old. Philosophy rather small and
slender.. ..A.D.Q. : “ Aboriginalisis” is funny in a way,
but very crude and jumpy E.H.J. : You haven’t
managed to get one good rhyme for “Josiah.”
W. J. M’Bride (Wood’s Bore): Send full address....
Romun: The bogus snake-bite idea has been worked to
death Piccaninny: You’ll “send others, if payment
for this is first-grade.” No payment of any grade
going your way at present... .G.W.D. : Very low on the
literary scale —C.A.W. : Has little to recommend it....
Unsuitable : P. Brandt, Chicot, Nulla, Leonardo, Maggie
Kennedy.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’B Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Pearn’s English Pumps. Fuel Economisers.
Nioholson & Sons’ English Mills to grind everything. Steel Rails. Locomotives. Tramway
Material and Mining Requisites of every description.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
By biftiiiiaf; sHarehcildeis have had thfe details
df the SchfemeS lot increasing; the paid capital of thh tyvo
big Sj'dhej' hanks: Thfe Bank of N.S. Wales issues 25;00u
IiCW Shares at £2O; or liar ; this means one new share for
every four Old ones. On the day the circular was issued,
arid afterwards, shares stood at £52. To get five shares
would cost £2OB for four old ones, and £2O for the new
one ; total, £228. Their par value would he £lOO. So if
the 10 per cent, dividend is maintained, the return
will be £4 7s. 9d. per cent. The Commercial Bank of
Sydney proposes to issue 20,000 shares, £l2 10s. paid, at
a premium of £2 10s. per share. This likewise means one
new share for every four old ones. The Old shares were
Worth £34. To get five shares would cost £136 for four
old ones, plus £l5 for a new one. Total, £l5l.
The par value of the lot would be £62 10s.
Assuming the 10 per cent, dividend to be continued, the
return would, therefore, be at the rate of £4 2s. 9d. per
cent, on the investment. The “Wales” investment
would thus at the price show' just J per cent, better
return. As a small set-off, however, it is to be noted
that the Commercial of Sydney gets in £50,000 addi-
tional reserves through this new issue, and that, of
course, should make it easier to maintain dividends. This
£50,000 if it earns 4 per cent, would earn 3s. 3d. per cent,
on the entire capital; in other Words, the premium
means that, for all time, the Commercial should earn
3s. Sd. per cent, more on its capital than if it issued the
shares at par, as the “ Wales ” Is doing.
* * * *
Somewhere between Perth and the Eastern
States the desert dropped a superfluous 1 into the tele-
gram-which reported Westralia’s expenditure to the end
of February ; so the eight months’ deficit appealed in B.
14/3/’O7 as £113,428, instead of £13,428. To partly even-
up things, the wire didn’t mention that the tevehue so
far has been £192,742 short of the Treasurer’s estimate,
and that the expenditure has been cut down by spending
£95,016, instead of an estimated £152,620 on public
works, buildings, &c.
* * • •
The capers of the Westralian Government with
regard to subsidised meatworks need watching, Mitchell,
Minister of Agriculture, announced the other day that
“ the Government was considering a scheme by which
suitable cool storage enterprises at suitable points might
be subsidised by the State lending a proportion of the
capital required on easy terms to those willing to erect
the necessary plant and handle all the trade.” The Wes-
tralian meat men have had a remarkably good time, at
the expense of the public; in the West the “meat
ring ” has been a very live thing. Now, apparently,
the meat ring is going to see if it can't get help
from the Government to have the process continued
indefinitely. The N.S. Wales crowd never suggested
anything quite so cheeky, At the Worst the squatters in
that State were prepared to pay their own meat works
subsidy, and have gone on paying it down to this day.
In Queensland even the old plundering gang never went
further than to subsidise a northward-going line of
steamers. But it looks as though the meat ring in
Westralia is going to try to get a subsidy from the people
for works, one of whose chief objects is to sustain the
monopoly price of flesh in the local market. What is
Ariti-Sosh doing that it doesn’t throw its heaviest brick at
the proposal ?
* • • *
N.S. Wales Miners’ Accident Relief
Fund
Carried
to Re- Re-
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses, serves. serves.
1901 .. £31,906 £6,821 £lOl £24,984 £24,984
1902 .. 39,036 11,096 1546 26,394 61,378
1903 .. 45,559 14,520 1050 29,989 81,367
1904 .. 48,288 17,587 1146 29,555 110,922
1905 .. 51,775 22,583 1253 27,939 138,861
1906 .. 55,188 28,476 1298 25,414 164,275
There are doubts about various items in these accounts,
which badly want re-casting. No doubt the people who
issue them, and who have the books to refer to, know
what they mean, but the outsider can’t know. It is
therefore practically impossible to quite accurately dis-
sect claims and expenses. The fund is maintained by
contributions of 9d. per fortnight per miner ; the duty
is laid on the employers to deduct the 4sd. per
week from the wages of all employees, and hand it
over, along with a 50 per cent, subsidy, and the State
comes along with an equal subsidy. Out of this fund
various benefits are paid—lss. per week to the disabled
miner, 3s. each to his dependent children, 10s. per week
to the widow of a miner killed by accident, £l2 to bury
the killed miner, etc. The increase in claims both abso-
lutely and in proportion to contributors has been very
striking ; this is partly due to an increase in benefits by
25 per cent, after the first actuarial valuation in 1904.
The following list partly shows what has happened (the
figures are per 1000 employees in each case): —
Claims
Non-fatal acci- Claims through through
dents per 1000 fatal non-fatal
employees. accidents. accidents.
1901.. 130-45 £24 17 5 £276 15 5
1902.. 146-18 111 4 2 356 18 7
1903.. 164-9 177 8 7 431 3 5
1904.. 170-76 209 16 2 496 3 0
1905.. 195-45 257 1 2 602 2 9
1906.. 218-7 315 6 8 764 6 0
There may be a few more accidents per 1000 employees
in the mines now than there were a few years ago, be-
cause lately pretty well any sort of unskilled workman
has been able to get mine work, and that generally
means accidents. But this Fund’s experiences are the
same as those of accident-insurance cos.; in the first year
or two the men don’t realise that the Fund is there, but,
when they do realise it, they come with a rush. The
increase in the claims through fatal accident is due to
the gradual aggregation of widows and other pen-
sioners. It may perhaps be 15 years from the
starting of the Fund before the outgo under
this head gets, stationary ; that will only happen
when deaths and re-marriages counterbalance the
manufacture of miners’ widows.
The costs of running this fund are extremely
small. The method of collection of course accounts for
most of that. Membership is compulsory, so no can-
vassers are needed. Neither are any collectors. Origin-
ally the local committees, which directly represent the
contributing parties, were unpaid, but they now receive
small fees. Practically these fees represent the whole of
the outlay charged to the fund ; for the costs of the cen-
tral administration are almost all paid out of the
Treasury, and not out of the fund. It is not desirable
that this should be so ; the thing ought to be worked on
a commercial basis, and all costs should be charged
against it. These backstairs subsidies and subventions
and grants are always undesirable. As matters stand,
the costs to the fund are only about £2 7s. per cent, of
income ; probably, charging everything to the fund that
should be charged—secretary’s salary, office rent, print-
ing, &c.—it would amount to 5 per cent. But, consider-
ing the size of the contributions and the nature of the
benefits, even that is extraordinarily small. Private
Enterprise could not battle for business and distribute
the same class of benefits at anything less than 50 per
cent. ; and even then half the men would miss the bene-
fits. And those who would suffer most from that, and
Who gain most from the compulsory system, are the
Women and children of men who would make no prcvi don
Of any other soft for the black day that arrives at most
miners’ homes sooner or later;
* * * *
The Standard Fire and Marine Insurance
Go, (Maoriland) i
Written To Re- Re-
Dec,, Profits; Dividends; Off; serves; serves;
1896.; £5,822 p.C.=£5629 £197 £43,851
Loss.
1897 .; 4,872 3 ~ ~ 3750 _= - 25,220
Profits.
1898.. 4,373 6£ ~ 4687 34,915
1899. 11,409 7£ ,; ~ 5625 5,784 40,699
1900. 13,494 10 ,; 7500 5,994 46,693
1901:: 11013 10 ~ 7500 3,513 50,206
1902 .; 15,938 10 ,; ;; 7500 2000 6,438 56,644
1003.: 18,307 10 ;, ;, 7500 10,807 67,451
19(4 .. 12,715 10 ;; 7500 5,215 72,660
12,953 JO ;; 7500 5,453 78,119
1906.. 11,570 10 ,; ;; 7500 4,070 82,180
Following ori the introduction of a State fire-ifisurancfe
department in Maoriland, premiums were cut, which
meant naturally an increase in both the loss and expense
rates. The results during the past two years have there-
fore not been as satisfactory as they had got into the
habit of being previously. Still, the co. can’t complain ;
in seven years the reserves have been doubled, and in
eight years half as much as the total capital has been
laid by, though during most of the time a 10 per cent,
dividend has been paid. But a fire-insurance co.’s
reserves—and especially a comparatively small co.’s
reserves—can’t altogether be set down as so much
undivided profit; for while a co. can’t expect a confla-
gration or a ’Frisco disaster every year, it has to expect
one now and again, and the reserve is to some extent
merely so much provision for unexpired risks of the
bigger sort. And, sooner or later, the great disaster is
sure to arrive. There was the case of the Union, of
London, which had been in business since 1714, and
had a charter dating back to the reign of Queen
Anne. Just When it was within sight of the 800th
anniversary of its birthday, the ’Frisco trouble k nocked
It out of its respectable old atm-ehair, and it has
“ merged ’* in ahother office—which is the pretty way of
Saying that it sells its CoUnection arid its venerable re-
spectability to another office ih order to raise motley to
pay its debts.
But to get back to the Standard of Maoriland \
its recent experiences in some respects are shown here*
Under
, , Loss Expense
premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1899 ~ £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66'5 p.c. 30‘7 p.c.
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53*8 „ 27’6 „
1904 .. 60,153 34,929 18,207 58*1 „ 30*3 „
1905 .. 64,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33‘2 „
1906 .. 56,450 33,223 18,212 68-8 „ 32*2 „
The investments are a great help to it, as to most
other Maoriland cos. On the average amount invested,
the return last year was £4 15s, sd. per cent. Unfor-
tunately it isn’t mentioned what the “investments”
are ; in that respect, the Standard issues less satisfactory
accounts than most Australasian ottices. From the
investor’s point of View, there is the usual objection to
the shares in the co.: £lO shares, they are ohly 15s. paid,
ieaving a liability of £9, ss, per share, It is comforting
to policy-holders, no doubt; but shareholders have to
look at the matter from the corpse’s point of view,
* * * *
The South Australian Brewing Co. (Ade-
laide)
VVrit- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Feb,, Profits, Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1898 £20,244 7 p.c. = £17,500 £l7BB £956 £8,241
1899 15,953 5„ „ 12,500 3229 224 8,465
1900 21,233 6„ ~ 12,500 2083 6650 15,115
1901 23,468 5 „ „ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
1902 22,506 5„ „ 12,500 1250 8756 31,371
1903 13,752 5„ „ 12,500 750 502 31,873
1904 12,935 5„ „ 12,500 750 31,558
1905 12,913 2£„ „ 6,250 2750 3913 35,471
1906 17,370 5„ „ 12,500 2750 2120 37,591
1907 18,172 5„ „ 12,600 2750 2922 40,513
This looks better. But the improvement isn't What It
looks, as this further comparison shows
1898. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Debentures .. ..£200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Other Debts.. .. 42,309 35,988 33,009 63,300
Freeholds, Plant,
Goodwill, &c. .. 438,983 478,886 477,161 498,639
Stock 31,358 10,152 9,905 12,015
Advances, &c. .. 40,746 41,391 4(2,534 42,159
Gross Profit on Sales 29,141 27,225 30,393 80,700
Rents.. .. .. 12,057 12,349 12,633 11,717
Expenses .. .. 6,526 7,409 8,070 8,240
Depreciation (i nclud-
ing Bad Debts) . . 4,428 9,253 7,586 6,011
So the improvement in the year’s profit as shown in the
first table is altogether due to less being written off to
cover depreciation and provide for bad debts. (This de-
preciation allowance is independent of the amounts ap-
propriated out of what are referred to as net profits.)
In spite of a larger capital outlay, net sales show
very little improvement, and revenue from rents
has shrunk. Still the sales for the past two years have
been above the average; probably this is due more or
less to the recent great activity at thirsty Broken Hill,
where this co. has a stronghold. In that case the chances
are that later on there will be a slackening, because no
mining boom lasts very long. The first table shows that
in 1902-3 there was a remarkable slump in profits, which
continued for three years. The published accounts don’t
explain the phenomenon, but apparently it was due to
new management, which decided that previous figures
were inflated, and that Some severe writing-down was
called for. This may explain the erratic movements of
the profits. Unfortunately, the bulk of the assets are
lumped together, and .it is, therefore, impossible
to more than guess at what was done. The
general impression, however, isn’t too cheerful.
Debentures are heavy ; they call for £lO,OOO a year in-
terest. An extra £20,000 has been put into plant, free-
holds, &e., during the year ; yet the gross profits on sales
have not improved, and rents are less. The two items
together were £41,198 in 1898, on a capital outlay of
£438,983 in freehold, plant, &c. ; last year they were
£42,423, when the capital outlay was £498,639. But
meantime, to make matters still worse, expenses to be
charged against this revenue have risen from £6526 to
£8240. Also, a concern which, after 18 years, still lumps
“goodwill ” with the other assets is to be viewed with
suspicion. . No report of the co. has, apparently, ever
mentioned what goodwill stands for ; but, as the co.
dates from 1888, and burst off with a 10 per cent. div.
(which very soon had to be dropped), the chances are
that the goodwill was something very substantial. And
nothing has been applied to its reduction, so far as can
be traced, for many years, and it isn’t certain that any-
thing has ever been so applied.
* * * *
Perkins and Co., brewers, of Queensland —
reckoning dividends on £58,333, to which the capital
was written down in 1894 :
Dividends and Added to Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves
1897 .. £12,945 10 p.c. = £6,125 £6,820 £25,413
1898.. 15,067 13$ „ „ 8,167 6,900 32,313
1899.. 19,456 13£ „ „ 8,167 11,289 43,602
1900.. 24,404 15 5-6 „ 9,698 14,706 58,308
1901 .. 26,165 16$ „ „ 10,208 15,957 74,265
1902.. 28,496 18J „,, 11,229 17,267 91,532
1903.. 26,565 23$ „ ~14,292 12,273 103,805
1904 .. 23,435 25 „ „ 15,313 8,122 111,927
1905.. 26,236 36 ~ ~21,000 5,236 117,163
1906.. 25,697 40 „ ~24,500 1,197 118,360
1907.. 25,350 36 ~ ~21,000 4,350 122,710
As remarked above, the dividends are calculated
on the £58,333 to which the capital was written
down in 1894. Since then the co. has capitalised
enough of its reserves to make the capital £lOO,OOO,
and at that figure (15s. on 133,334 shares) it now stands
in the books ; the reserves, that way of looking at it, are,
of course, £41,667 less than shown above. In the old
days the co. was a tfemfendousiy bloated affair, and ih
1890 it stiil had a capital of £187,500; The losses wefe,
however, so very latge that,- a few years after the boom
blew out f it became necessary to write £lOO,OOO off
capital iri order to get properties dowtl to market value;
Even that presently proved inadequate* so a new co. was
formed out of the ruins of the old one with the capital of
£58,339 mentioned above; Apparently that was a
thorough clean-up. The management was energetic,- the
Opposition was in a worse state mostly than Per-
kins and Co. had been,- and Queensland was still
thirsty though poor. Perkins and Co. therefore promptly
started to pick Up* and it has picked up so welt
that for five years past even On tpe basis of the old
£187;500 capital* the dividend has averaged 10J per cent;
—which says a lot for Perkins’ management and Queens-
land’s thirst. The c 6. got a tremendous advantage
through cutting things down tO the bode Wheh it had to 1
cut ; it Was thus able; while paying a dividend which
looked big; to put large sums to reserves; and ih the
matter of investing those reserves it had a chance to get
iri on the ground floor;* Following shows something more
df the iflovemfehtS
1897. 1905. IDO't. 196*7.
Liabilities .. .. .. £9,284 £14,061 £13,304 £16,733
Freeholds, plant, &c. .. 41,316 94,620 95,126 94,614
Stocks 23,229 36,732 33,026 33,-330
Loans, book debts, &c. .. 26,347 60,004 62,220 70,414
Cash balances .. .. 5,200 10,451 11,875 9,919
Profits on sales, &c. .. 20,659 41,120 38,438 36,298
General expenses.. .. 6,816 13,256 11,163 9,865
The profits shown in the first table are less depreciation ;
last year £lOl9 was written off profit and loss, which is
pretty poor considering the size of the wasting assets.
There is no goodwill item, and the cash position is stro. g
(the debts are trifling); on the other hand, probably
because of keener competition, probably on account of
the higher prices of materials, gross profits on sales have
been shrinking in an uncomfortable way.
» * » *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society op
N.S.W., Ltd. (Sydney):—
Div. (10p.c.)
Net and Bonus on To Re- Re-
Profits. Purchases. serves, serves.
July, 1901 .. £5371 £4953 £4lB £13,587
Jan,, 1902 .. 6322 6464 858 14,445
July; 1902 6870 6576 294 14,739
Jan., 1903 .. 6862 6163 699 15,438
July, 1903 5806 6938 15,306
Jan., 1904 ~ 6829 6564 265 15,571
July, 1904 ~ 6658 6451 207 15,778
Jan 1005 l* * 8195 7250 945 16 > 723
"* ) Premiums on new shares 6887 28,610
July, 1905 .. 8410 7188 1222 24,832
Jan., 1906 8925 7751 1174 26,006
July, 1906 ~ 8062 6995 1067 27,073
Jan,, 1907 ~ 9134 8461 673 27,746
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate
only, the amount which will be divided as bonus being
an estimate. For many years past—over 10 years
at any rate—the shareholders’ bonus on cash purchases
has been 2s. in the £ (10 per cent.); it has now been put
up to 2s. 3d. (11:* per cent.). The good times are reflected
in most of the figures,i—
Gross profit Proportion
Cash on Working Expenses to
Receipts. Sales, &c. Expenses. Receipts.
Jan., 1897 .. £50,834 £11,783 £7,796 15'33 p.c.
Jam, 1900 ~ .67,521 15,997 10,158 15'05 „
Jan,, 1905 98,408 24,165 14,974 15'2 „
Jam, 1906 104,062 25,738 15,667 15'06 „
July, 1906 95,479 23,452 14,317 14‘99 „
Jan., 1907 .. 105,012 25,822 15,489 14'75 „
The working expenses do not include the amounts voted
for depreciation or as employees’ bonus ; the latter,
which has been deducted from profits in the first table,
amounts for the past half-year to £5OO. Twelve months
ago the co. had liabilities, including overdraft, of £16,128;
against that, there was £3495 in deposits and cash. The
liabilities are now £12,612, and the deposits and cash
£5854. This very substantial improvement is due partly
to the large profit made during the year, partly to a
reduction of stock from £35,990 to £33,904, and of book
debts from £7840 to £7279. Of the reserves, £6425 is
represented by “ extension of premises ”; the item, which
is being written off at the rate of £313 a year, is a doubt-
ful asset, the premises being leasehold.
* •* * *
Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.’s New Zealand
Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 ' £30,593
1902-f £2 > 747 7 p.c. =,£13,549 £2554 17,237
{ Premiums on shares issued ..£1527 18,764
1903 / 14,941 7 p.c. £= 13,649 1292 20,056
\ Premiums on shares issued .. 209 20,265
1904 f 16,479 7 p.c. = 13,683 2000 796 21,061
’ \ Premiums on shares issued .. 17 21,078
1905 15,466 7 p.c. = 13,686 1780 22,858
1906 / 16,250 7 „ „ 13,751 2499-25,357
\ Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
lqn7 I Reserves writ ‘«n up (Deprec. A/c) 7851 33,382
l 18,652 7 p.c. = 14,000 3520 1132 34,514
Twelve months ago it was announced that, in order to
simplify the accounts, various reserves would be lumped
together, and the lump was made up to £22,000. But,
unfortunately, the change was made in a confusing way.
The old reserves were as follows : Insurance, £3726;
against customers’ accounts, £3501 ; buildings deprecia-
tion, £1303 ; ordinary reserves, £9176 ; undivided profit,
£7B2s—total, £25,531. There was also a sort of reserve
not shown as a reserve—stock depreciation, £7851 ; the
stock was shown as an asset less that much. Now, how-
ever, this £7851 has been transferred to general reserves,
which has ex ■ 51y the same effect as writing up assets by
£7851. The .. .303 buildings depreciation is written off,
and a portion of the book-debts reserve is transferred to
general reserve. Thus—
Insurance fund £3,726
Ordinary reserves 9,176
Book-debts reserve (£3501) .. .. 1,246
Stock depreciation 7,852
New general reserve fund .. .. £22,000
The profit and loss account shows for the year a profit
of £17,651. But to that must be added £263, which has
dropped into the reserves (fire insurance fund), and £738
which has been added to the balance of the book-debts
reserve. This last reserve is apart from amounts written
off for bad debts; the amount added to the fund repre-
sents 5 per cent, of the increased book debts. The £7851,
“stock depreciation,” which has been dropped into the
reserves, may be anything. Apparently, however, it was
a reserve against possible over-valuation —a thing which
this co. found out some years ago isn’t at all impossible.
Where a stock runs to £158,365 a reserve of the sort cer-
tainly seems a handy thing to have on the premises ; and
it seems a still handier thing when it is remembered that
much of the stock must be of a highly perishable charac-
ter. The investor has to take a good deal on trust in
connection with such a co.—the figures don’t show every-
thing. Book debts have increased rapidly—l9os,
£38,265 ; 1906, £45,094 ; 1907, £59,855. With them, on the
other side, the co.’s liabilities have mounted rapidly—from
£47,567 in 1905 to £69,740 in 1907. Neither is a satisfactory
movement. Considering the large risks, the grave un-
certainty whether anything like enough is written off the
extensive works, plant and premises (book value, £94,560),
and the small reserves, the distribution of profits appears
to be too great. And the recent handling of the resei-ves
doesn’t look too well; certainly the stock may have been
undervalued before—on that point it is impossible to
speak.
« * » »
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £374 10 p.c. =£375 £lOO £785
June, 1903.. 372 10 „ „ 375 40 742
Dec., 1903.. 459 10 „ ~ 375 £B4 826
June, 1904.. 471 10 „ „ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904.. 524 10 „ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905.. 418 10 „ „ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905.. 554 10 ~ ~ 375 179 1293
June, 1906.. 516 10 „ „ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906.. 508 10 „ „ 375 133 1567
Of the reserves, £1470 is “ plant and gasometer deprecia-
tion reserve ” ; and, as it is apparently provision against
actual depreciation, it isn’t a capital reserve at all : it
doesn’t represent additional property, it only represents
additional rust. The surplus earnings over outgoings
were in 1906 equal to just a shade over 2 p.c. of the book
value of plant. If 2 p.c. is a fair sum to provide for
depreciation, the dividend was just earned. If it isn’t
enough to provide, then part of the dividend was paid
out of capital.
* it * *
Wednesday, before the Easter recess, was
“ settling day ” on London Exchange, and a bad time
eiipfect*d oil acCoOiit of the breaks in America. f 6
fnake matters Worse,' Copper,' which had got up to £llO
in February, slumped Suddenly to £96. It was widely
announced, however, that the bears had been at work,
and there was a rally to £96 10s. No doubt bears were
at work. That is to say, men were selling forward in the
expectation of picking up at a lower price presently,
What justification had they for expecting to be able
do it ? Follow the copper market
May, 1905 ~£65 0 0 1 Nov., 1906 ..£lO2 12 6
Aug., 1905 ~ 70 10 © Dec., 1906 .. 105 5 0
Nov., 1905 .. 77 15 0 | Jan., 1907 .. 106 10 0
Feb., 1906 .. 78 17 6 l Feb., 1907 ~ 109 10 0
May, 1906 .. 85 0 0 Mar,, 1907 „ 110 © 0
Aug., 1906 . .85 7 6 |
A legitimate and stable rise to £llO is quite possible,
the result of a steady increase in consumption and a
shrinkage in supplies, But supplies have not shrunk ;
what has happened is that there has been a sudden de-
mand (part of it a gambling demand)for copper. America,
in particular, has had two or three years of great pro-
sperity ; that has caused a boom, and the. boom
has been fed by heavily discounting future prosperity
—in other words, by heavy borrowing,- which was just
what happened in Australia in the late eighties and early
nineties. The difference between Australia and America
is that the former put its own add its borrowed money
into land and bricks and mortaf : America is putting it
into wbrkS; (The New Northcote and other Australian
brick cos: paid 15 and 20 per cent. divs. in this
country’s boom days, which shows what the boom
demand did tor bricks in that ease.) You can
only mortgage the future once—and that is why booms
don’t and can’t last; you can’t go on buying either
t.ricks or copper indefinitely. The way in Which the
copper market has rushed up is very fair proof, apart
t com everything else, that an engineering or industrial
uoom somewhere has done the rushing ; it obviously isn’t
a natural movement—it is a fever. To say that the bears
got to work isn’t, therefore, saying the last word on the
subject. Bears are simply men wlio think there’s more
money to be got by selling than by buying or holding,
and the bears may be right.
As to what is known as the “ statistical posi-
tion,” though the figures are rarely worth much with
such a gambling medium as copper, it is worth noting
that in February, 1906, when the price was £7B 17s. 6d.
per ton (standard), stocks in England and France and
afloat thereto were stated at 8946 tons. In the previous
February they had been 17,125 tons, and the reduction
was put forward to justify the rise from £6B to £7B. But
in February of this year the stocks had increased fjioui
8946 tons to 13,483 tons ; yet the price had sprung frvm
£7B 17s. 6d. to £lO9 10s. Evidently ordinary laws dy’ ’■
apply to the present situation, which, in other word, a
fictitious.
* * * *
H. J. Daly, who led the Baillieus and other*
into Broken Hill, and more or less engineered the big
zinc deals, is going away on a long holiday: “he will
probably be absent from Australia for about 18 months.”
A lot of the others wish they could go away for 18
months too. The principal difference between ex-mining
reporter Daly and those others is that they stayed in
while Mr. Daly no doubt got out. For a while he was
practically the head and front of the Zinc Corporation;
the first report showed him chairman of directors. He
isn’t anything now. Also, there is a difference of about
£1 per share between the price “Zincs” were and the
price they are, which is a comforting reflection for
the man who got out. Daly took Block 14 and
the North under his protection, too. Block 14 (ord.),
which weren’t worth 2s. 6d. two years ago, had been run
up to 345. 6d. in December, 1906; but they were down
to 255. 4d. before the Easter holidays started last week.
Preference, 335. at Christmas, were at 235. 7£d. at Easter.
Broken Hill North, 965. 6d. before Christmas (they passed
£5 in November), had sales at 735. last week. Some
cheerful people say they don’t see any signs of the boom
breaking yet, and they want to know when the threatened
smash is coining. Well, there hasn’t been any sjnash
yet ; but ask the deluded people who bought Bloclj 14’s
at 345. 6d. and Norths at £5, and they’ll probacy say
that, anyhow, they have felt a considerable bump/'
* ‘ * * *
The British, Broken Hill, is opening up an ore
body at the 300 ft. level, which, so far as quality goes, can
more than hold its own with any sulphides along the line
of lode. The body was cut in a south drive, across which
it is going diagonally in a north-easterly direction. Like
all the British ore bodies, it will probably prove fantastic
in shape, which would explain why it was missed by the
diamond drill. A hand of average-grade ore was first
met with in the drive, and this afterwards
gave place to some of the best sulphides
that have recently been mined in Broken Hill.
So rich in lead is it that one of the men who was
working in the face, machine drilling, was admitted to
the hospital in a very bad way from lead poisoning-a
disease not common in the mines nowadays. The body
is being tried for at the 400 ft., where the south drive has
already cut the average-grade band which was first en-
countered at the upper level. There r is reason to believe
that the ore body will live right up to the Block 14
boundary, for Block 14 has on its side worked
good ore as far north as the leasehold rights
would allow. At the 800 ft., on the western side
of Blackwood’s, a big quartz body has been struck, and,
although the diamond drill core has not shown much,
an ore body probably exists in that locality’, and will he
found by driving.
• * » *
Some little time ago the Junction leased its
King shaft to the British to allow the latter to develop
carbonate and sulphide bodies at the 100 ft. and 200 ft.
levels, which were underlying into British ground. It
now appears that the sulphide body is turning over, and
will underlay back into the Junction at the next level.
The British has now little to hope for from the King
shaft development.
**' * *
Taking the record for 20 years past, each person
employed underground in N.S.W. coal mines has sent up
an average of 509 tons of coal a year, as against 372 tons
in Great Britain and Ireland, and the advantage of close
upon 40 per cent, says several things for the Australian
mine and the Australian miner. It also partly explains
why the Freetrader’s yarn about “ cheap coal in Eng-
land,” when he wants Australia to get its work done
there, is flam and myth. The fatal-accident rate in
N.S.W. coal mines isn’t as satisfactory, however, as it is
in Great Britain ; in the latter, an average of 1'47 per
1000 men employed underground are killed each year ;in
N.S.W., there is an average of 2’39 per 1000. This also
seems to point to the fact that the “pampered” Aus-
tralian woriring man isn’t as pampered as he is alleged
to be, and that in Australia socialistic interference with
Private Enterprise isn’t as interfering as it is in a country
where they don’t talk as much about it.
• « * »
Mount (N.S.W.), another old-time
copper n-i.ie, accredited with smelting 6000 tons of from
20 per c. t. to 4 per cent, ore, and despatching large
parcels iigh-grade stuff to South Australia and New-
castle in ’Bo’s, now promises, with increased price of
metals am, tv -aper ways of working, to become again a
profitable p; .ducer. The mine is three miles from
Oanbelego, ami on the same strike of country as Mount
Boppy gold mine. Thevo •: re 40 acres in the b’otk. The
co. is in 50,000 shares of 10s. each ; all necessary plant
for hauling marketable ore by two cages has been pro-
vided, and there is already awaiting shipment 50 tons of
ore, worth from 15 per cent, to 20 per cent. At No. 1
level the lode is from sft. to 6ft., and where exposed is
estimated to go 20 per cent.; there is also considerable
high-grade ore still in the old stopes, beside a quantity
of seconds, used as filling. At 200 ft. the lode is from
3ft. to sft., high-grade sulphides—assays run as high as
30 per cent. ; but that, of course, isn’t the average. The
size of the shoot is unknown, for, owing to water trouble,
little work has been done here. The co. is now sinking
a new shaft (lift. 6in. by 4ft.) 800yds. further south, on
a big gossan formation. From surface indications this
outcrop is a continuation of the lode. The policy is to
sink 300 ft. before opening out, and to continue sending
50-ton parcels from the old shaft when they are available.
The pot should easily be kept boiling that way.
John Fox’s syndicate, which bought an option
over the Queen Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), had bad luck.
While negotiations were on, the copper market hung
around the £lO7 mark, and the syndicate had, of course,
to offer a price to match. Before the month had expired
the market began to misbehave ; and on top of that Cor-
bould’s report was not too cheerful. Queen Bee, he said,
is a good mine, but not good enough at the price. In
view of that, and the antics of the copper market, it is
pretty certain that the £3OOO odd which a further three
months’ option would cost will not be put up.
In anticipation of Queen Bee going off, there
had been much gambling in Queen Bee North and South,


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Mine Managers, Assayers and others.
Cyanide, Caustic Soda, Chloride of Lime, Zinc Shavings,
Mabor, and all Mining and Assay Chemicals and
Apparatus, Microscopes and accessories can be obtained
of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne. Agents for
Oertling’s arid Schlag and Balances.^*
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
eno-ines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* „
* * * *
The British Australasian, in its issue of 19th
July 1906, wrote, regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ The Society has advanced
rapidly, especially during the last three years, and it is
pretty generally admitted that the directors are conduct-
ing a large business on* very safe hues.”* *
Cobar-.— For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Brokei, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
Budgery.— Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silbkrberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager#
* * * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coaled steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discretion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.— The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke) Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
•* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nvmagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Charters Towers,— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
CoLjJSON & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*,
» * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest inforn a
tion on the field.*
Latter was taken up first, when all the surrounding
ground was available, and was barracked for on that
account. North, in 30,000 shares, had its claims pressed
on the ground that it was pegged by men who knew most
about the Queen Bee. The idea was that, when they got
their £150,000, the original Bee shareholders would put a
few thousands back into the next-door shows. As a quick
gamble both stocks lost their value when the Queen Bee
deal blew out ; but they remain honest prospecting
ventures.
* * * *
Recent developments at the True Blue, Wyalong
(N.S.W.), have been very satisfactory. At the 1100 ft.
level, and 100 ft. south of the Brilliant shaft, the face
shows a 6ft.tf)in. lode, consisting of almost pure mineral
between clean granite walls. is dip-
ping south, has an underlay of about 12 degrees off
the vertical, and comes in at a point 33ft. from the
shaft. At the 950 ft. level, the lode, for a distance of
700 ft., averages from Ift. to 2ft. wide, and, as all the
ground up to the 800 ft. is untouched, a great quantity of
Stone is now available for stoping. It is estimated from
present developments that, for the 120 men employed,
there is 10 years’ work ahead. No expense has been
spared to equip the property with everything required
for its safe working', and the ventilation is perfect.
« ■* * *
Section 132 of the new N.S.W. Local Govern-
ment Act says how mines are to be valued :
“ The unimproved capital value of a mine of coal or
shale is a sum equal to 3s. per ton on the average annual
output of large coal or shale, and Is. 6d. per ton of small
coal won from the mine during the three years next pre-
ceding that during which the valuation is made.”
Or the council may value it as an ordinary 7 freehold with
a surface value. Then, as to metal mines :
“The unimproved capital value of a mine situate on
Crown land, and held from the Crown under a gold-min-
ing, gold-dredging, or other mineral or mining lease or
license, or mineral holding (except for coal or shale min-
ing purposes), is a sum equal to 20 per centum of the
average annual saleable value to the mine-owner of the
ore or mineral won from the mine, or of the product de-
rived from such ore or mineral during three years next
preceding that during which the valuation is made.”
There always has been trouble over the municipal valu-
ation of mines—metal mines especially—and there was
costly litigation which settled nothing at Broken Hill,
Wyalong, and elsewhere. For the rich and profitable
mine the new law is a throw-in. The unimproved capital
value is to be taken as one-fifth of the average of the
annual output for three years past, in the case of a metal
mine. See how that works out : take the Broken Hill
South for an example, and assume'that last year’s output
was worth the average for the past three years. (As a
matter of fact, it was worth much more than the
average.) The total value “ to the mine-owner” for the
year was £381,313. The value has to be taken to be the
value as the stuff leaves the mine ; and, as the South
sells its mill product straight out, the South
accounts show the value which the new muni-
cipal law requires to be taken. Twenty per cent, of
£381,313 is £76,263, which is the unimproved capital
value of the Broken Hill South mine under the Act. The
rate on that basis is ordinarily to be Id. per £l, and no
rate of more than 2d. in the £ may be levied on a metal
mine (sub-section 7, section 151). On a full capital value
of £76,263 a penny rate will bring in £312 155.—£312 15s.
on a property which last year naid dividends of £120,000.
This is equal to a rate "of ss\ 2d. per cent, of divided
profits—little more than Jd. in the £—which is a
miserable contribution to the upkeep of municipal
government. The law is not yet practically extended
to' municipalities ; at present it applies only to shires,
and most of the big mines of the State are within
municipalities. But presently it will upset the finances
of a few of them.
* * * *
The output and results of the chief Westralian
mines during February were as follows : — Profits: Oroy r a,
11,4390 z., £36,200 ; Boulder, 11,7240 z., £22,720 ; Ivanhoe,
99880 z., £21,050 ; Kalgurli, 67620 z., £IB,OOO ; Horseshoe,
11,8200 z., £20,140; Fingall, 83160 z., £15,260; Persever-
ance, 6'2490z., £12,200; Associated Northern, 30840 z.,
£8940 ; Associated, 45600 z., £7240; Gwalia, 43770 z.,
£6300 ; South Kalgurli, 25870 z., £2170 ; Hainault, 14800 z.,
£B3O ; Vivien. 8400 z., £850; Cumberland, 5850 z., £810;
Gwalia Consols, 7010 z., £650 ; Ridge, 4550 z., £SBO ; Lance-
field, 15600 z., £410; Greenmount, 4480 z., £360 ; Lake
View Consols, 32060 z., nil; Northern (late East Murchi-
son United), 15030 z., nil. Losses : Bellevue, 10520 z.,
£IO3O ; Main Reef, 6480 z., £450 ; Northern Blocks Synd,,
1960 z., £390 ; North Feather, 5230 z., £350. No costs
given: Star, 10240 z. ; Ida H., 807 oz. ; Brown Hill
Extended, 4540 z. ; Hannan’s Reward, 3390 z. ; Wes-
tralia and East Extension, 9290 z. ; Burbank’s Main
Lode, 7240 z. ; Burbank’s Birthday Gift, Slloz. The
chief features are the serious decline in Kalgurli
return and profit, owing to the smaller tonnage treated.
A decline is also shown in Associated Northern, South Kal-
gurli, Hainault and Lake View Consols, owing to lowering
of grade. Associated shows a substantial rise in profits,
due to reduction in costs ; development being now con-
sidered sufficiently ahead of mill, expense in that direction
has been curtailed. The parlous position of Bellevue,
Main Reefs, Northern Blocks Syndicate and North Feather
can be seen from the losses incurred.
* '** * *
Great Boulder, Kalgoorlie, increased its ore
reserves very materially 7 during 1906, and they are ex-
pected to show a vast improvement over the 453,600 tons
on Dec. 31, ’OS. The adjoining mines, Horseshoe and
Ivanhoe, have all along had far bigger reserves than the
Boulder, the latest figure of the Horseshoe being 1,116,900
short tons, and of the Ivanhoe 796,000 tons. In addition
there are on the Boulder fully 650,000 tons of old residues,
which are estimated to be worth 12s. 9d. per ton. A
Ridgeway slimes plant has been successfully treating
these residues for a year past, and 10 more of the
machines which are being installed are expected to treat
20,000 tons a month. It is likely that Great Boulder will
soon resume its position as the leading mine of W.A., as
the Oroya cannot much longer continue its fireworks
output.
* * » »
North End, Kalgoorlie, after a rather inglorious
career, has entirely 7 closed down under three months’
exemption. It came out in the Warden’s Court that the
co. started with £SOOO working capital, to which the re-
construction added £11,470, while the gold won was sold
for £12,410, making a total of £28,880. The mismanage-
ment has been colossal. When it was taken over from the
prospectors the mine was merely a hole in the ground, all
the ore above 80ft having been rooted out. In spite of
this a crazy 15-head mill and cyanide plant were erected.
By a fluke, on sinking to and opening out at 230 ft.,
they 7 discovered a new lens of ore, however, and that
helped things along. The possibilities of the mine are
still great, but it will have to be managed on very
different lines. In addition to a manager and underground
manager, co. employed an accountant, engineer, cyanide
expert, and metallurgist, besides having a secretary and
managing director in Perth. Quite useless incumbrances
cost the co. £4O or £SO a week, or nearly as much as was
spent underground. In Ballarat or Bendigo the surface
expenses of sucli a mine would have been covered by 7 £lO
at the outside.
* * * «
Golden Link, Kalgoorlie, is to shut down for
six months, to await the purchase and erection of a sul-
phide plant. Ore in sight above 500 ft. is estimated at
23,200 tons, worth 595. 6d. per ton, and costs are not
expected to exceed 365., so there should be a large margin
of profit—if Manager Haig’s estimate is. reliable. The
probability of the successful issue of the £20,000 5 per
cent, debentures in denominations of Is. each does not
look very hopeful, though one never knows what will
happen in the case of a Bull co. If shareholders refuse
to chip in, the “ insiders ” may, if satisfied with the
prospects of the property, take up the debentures them-
selves, and possibly foreclose eventually on the mine, and
leave shareholders out of it. Altogether, Golden Link
does not look a very hopeful proposition.
» * * *
Ivanhoe Junction, Kalgoorlie, has at last started
its treatment plant, and now we shall see. According to
enthusiastic Hocking, there are thousands of tons of
9dwt. ore in Sight. Managers Johnson, Hewitson and
others thought so too, but all fell in when the ore was
treated. If Hocking prove correct he will score a signal
victory, as the general opinion on the spot is that the
mine is no good. The result should be known by the end
of April, or beginning of May.
* ■* * *
Golden Pole, Davyhurst (W.A.), is'getting no
\ Itter. During the half-year 6656 short tons have been
lated, and, in spite of 731 ft. of development, ore
erves have fallen from 16,300 tons, estimated to be
*th 7Gs. 6d., to 9790 tons, estimated at 635. 9d. This
“ns either that development has opened up no ore, or
c ' the previous estimate was exaggerated. A bad
f e \re is that a second crosscourse has been encountered
to the north, which apparently cuts off the reef that way,
just as the original crosscourse cut it off to the soutn.
According to present outlook, the mine cannot last much
longer, and there seems little hope of the co. paying any
more divs. out of profits.
* * *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), continues to be the
best gambling counter in the market. When manager
Henderson reported that the lode in the bottom level
only panned out 245. a ton where first penetrated, fre-
quent assays were promised, but none have so far been
published. ' This is probably not due to the neglect of
Henderson. Judging by the violent fluctuations in the
stock, it is evident some people either know, or think
they know, something. The result of the first crushing
will be reported early this month, and is hardly likely to
pan out at 60s. per ton, as the level above did. But it is
all very mysterious.
♦ * *
Victory United, Cuddingwara (W.A.), is now
practically held in Westralia, and some local holders are
agitating to have the head office transferred to 1 erth,
or Cue, as they reckon that they do not get a fair deal in
Adelaide. Others point out that there is only a nominal
Stock Exchange in Perth, and they don’t want the stock
to be left quite out in the cold. The mine is a one-horse
affair, and is likely to continue so. Small crushings are
made at irregular intervals, but no costs ever given.
As for ore reserves, the management can’t think of them,
and has to jig along from hand to mouth. The reef, or
rather leader, is so small and erratic that it is only fit tor
a small party of working men to handle, and scrip is only
good for a gambling counter. It won’t be good for even
that if taken away from the Adelaide Exchange.
» » * *
Another duffer has to be thrown on the Murchi-
son (W.A.) scrap-heap ; the chief claim at Erroll’s Find,
in the Cue country, has been given best, after it has cost
£20,000. Twelve parcels of stone, of 20 tons each, gave
the miserable aggregate of 34£oz. Then the manager
fled to the Warden’s Court and got six months’ breathing
time. This is another instance of the trickiness of
Murchison reefs. It used to be thought that the lingall
Was an exception, but there are doubts now about even
that. The New Chum, at Mount Magnet, looked a solid,
lasting concern 14 years ago ; but, after a fitful existence,
it petered out. Both the Nannine and Star of the East
mines—mostly owned by Perth speculators—were spas-
modically encouraging, but eventually went the way of
the rest. Black Range, the most popular Murchison dis-
trict just now, may be all right; all the same, those who
know the Murchison best and longest are moving
cautiously.
■* * * *
Lancefield, Laverton (W.A.), is still causing a
lot of anxiety, as the ore will not roast. The profits for
February are given as only £4lO, while those for Decem-
ber and 'January were not stated. This mine has one of
the widest and longest gold shoots in the State, and has
over 100,000 tons of ore in each 100 ft. of backs, but the
presence of arsenical pyrites is the trouble.
A holy silence is being preserved in Melbourne
about the doings of the Charlotte Plains Consolidated
Gold Mines, Ltd., represented in Vic. by J. Drysdale
Brown. The co. has spent a lot of money in Vic. deep
leads, and has done its work well. Still it has had to
issue “ A,” and then “ B ” shares, and now it is out with
a proposal for wholesale reconstruction. This is about
its most sensible move, as it would be pretty well
imnossible to pay divs. on its 800,000 shares or so.
Ho'vv the interests are to be apportioned between the
260,000 £1 shares and the 520,000 3s. 4d. shares it is, how-
ever, difficult to tell, especially as there are all sorts of
accrued rights to the original shares. The Board now
pleads with holders to forego these rights, and put all the
stock on the same footing. To complicate matters, extra
capital is still wanted to get out the gold, and, after all,
the ground only pans out at about 10dwt., which does not
leave a margin, if mine-surveyor Stanley Hunter is to be
believed when he says that 14dwt. is needed to cover ex-
penses in a deep-lead mine.
A flash-in-the-pan sort of show, out in the barren
waste near No Where, Wehla (Vic.), has lately' been
sighted under the title of St. John. It has been a poor
little cockerel all through, and now it is being slaughtered
in the usual way. There was a crushing after a heap of
Stock Exchange talk of 3oz. dirt, but, as the tonnage
treated was small, and the yield the same, it did not
take a handbag to carry off the gold. There has been
some pretty tall talking because the crushing was not at
once reported bn the Stock Exchange. The fault seems
to be the Board’s, which should have provided against
any such lapse. As far as the show goes, it has every
chance of starving if it has to depend on the Stock
Exchange call-payer. m * m
Bendigo market is deadly dull, and the power
of investors to pay calls on the numerous suckling floats
of 1906 is being keenly tested. Too many of them were
creations to provide paper counters for gambling ; one
of them, put off without a prospectus, provided £250
commission and £250 for the promoters, nothing being
placed to the credit of the bantling company. One Ben-
digo investor paid £2OOO in calls for February. But there
are not many of them who can keep that sort of thing
going. ,
Smell ful disclosures have been made in connec-
tion with the bust-up of the Mikado Co., one of the
Daylesford (Vic.) derelicts. When gold was first reported
there was a local demand for shares, and upon an official
assurance that stone was being bagged for despatch to
the mill, inferentially because of its richness, shares sold
close up to 7s. The “ phenomenally rich ” stone sent to
the battery yielded a little over 4dwt. to the ton ! The
“ local overseer ” was recently carpeted in connection
with his dealings in shares. This was a good bluff on
behalf of the bosses of the show; but the “local over-
seer ” isn’t taking it sitting. He points out that he per-
sistently threw cold water on the most ridiculous
statements made about the richness of the stone, though
he admits that he got out of his shares on the rise. An
inquiry is needed into the attempt to get at the scrippers.
But who is to make it? The Ballarat Stock Exchange?
Ha, ha ! Likewise Wot-o !
* * * *
Old hands don’t take to New Rice’s Freehold
(Vic.), in spite of reports that the lode-stuff is worth 3oz.
per ton, and that “ splendid ” yields have been obtained
from trial crushings. Though the flotation puff has hardly
died away, 4s. shares are hawked at 3s. 6d. The cold fact
is that New Rice’s is in very tricky ground, and rich
shoots on the surface peter out at depth.
* • * *
Ballarat papers have been booming the Electro-
Hydraulic show at Carngham (Vic.). The ground was long
ago worked out by Chinese, and though some gold is
being won by the water, the proposition looks unhealthy.
The co. has been sluicing since January, and, after a run
of seven or eight weeks, a yield of 140 oz. is enthusiastically
announced from 5600yd5., or an average of 2s. per yard.
Other sluicing cos., working with steam, can put through
80yds. an hour, and 80yds. an hour for only eight hours a
day, six days a week, is 3840yds. for one week. If the
managerial statement is correct that the machinery has
been working smoothly, there is something wrong with
the machinery, the figures, or the ground.
* * * »
A fitting subject for inquiry by directors of
tin-mining shows is how it is that the blowing-in of the
bottom of the mine generally involves the blowing-out
of the bottom of the share market. Latest example is
the Briseis Extended (Tas.), where an actual treble was
hit during the past week. First some part of the pump
blew out. Then share values blew out. Now the clean-
up has blown out. There is no Langford to prop
the stock now, and no “ Up, guards, and at em I
messages from other members of the management. It
seems°that what little tin there is in the mine is m nar-
row runs, the rest having, apparently, been cleaned out
by Dawson’s prehistoric man. The co. is boring the
ground, or is about to, and it has to get on to the call
list to put finances in a desirable condition. The inter-
esting problem now is—How many shares will calls be
paid on ? And then, what is the chance that an extra
plant won’t be needed for deep mining ?
The West Coast of Tasmania miring region
made a good show in 1906. The exports of metals and
minerals were worth £1,462,922, and the dividends
£420 313. Of this, just over £1,000,000 worth came from
Mount Lyell; most of the balance came from Zeehan.
The chief producers besides Mount Lyell were the British
Zeehan £96,935, Montana £57,978,' £ 30,05/,
South Comstock £9,201, Comet £19,417, West Comet
£lO 874 North Farrell £30,056, Primrose £30,770, and
Tasmanian Copper Co. £27,724. The dividends are poor,
because a great deal of the work is done by tributors,
and the distribution of profits is private. The two
London cos. make the usual poor showing of John Bull
cos.; the British Zeehan only divided 32 per cent, of its
output, and the Montana 28 per cent. London expenses
and London extravagance account for a good deal, xte-
duced to the equation of ounces of gold, some of the re-
turns are striking. British Zeehan yield was equal to
oz. per ton, Montana 4J oz., Western 3 oz., Florence 3£
oz., and North Farrell 2J oz. Even the Comet product
was worth 12 dwt. Tin mining was unprofitable ; most
of the returns were won without machinery. The aver-
age number of men employed on the West Coast during
1906 was 4,091. The produce to date of British Zeehan
mine has been £453,294, of Montana £562,068, and of
Western £200,000. A copper-silver revival in Tasmania
is by no means impossible. But the public will first
have to be scratched by the plentiful Queensland wild-
cats before it turns its face south.
* * * *
When the miners beat them in their old row,
the pigheaded directors of the Hercules (Tas.) shut up
shop just to show who was boss. Term after term after
that, to keep the shareholders quiet, they announced
that the shop was just as well shut, because they
couldn’t sell their ore even if it was open. Occasion-
ally they remarked that some inquiries were niade,
but they didn’t believe the people meant busi-
ness. And the shareholders let them fool along
like that all through 1906, the finest year for profits that.
Australian metal-miners have ever known. No sooner,
however, was work started than it was proved that the
previous inquiries did mean business. “ Since work w r as
restarted,” the directors report, “ we have had
several applications for the purchase of large parcels
of low-grade sulphides,” also “ negotiations in two
directions at least for the purchase of the mine ;
further, “ the Tasmanian Smelting Co. has, for
some time, been desirous of contracting for the supply
of sulphide ore, up to 150,000 tons at least, and has
offered a considerable reduction in returning charges ” ;
and for the supply of zinc blende “a new contract
has been entered into with Beer, Sondheimer, and
Co., of Germany, for the sale of a minimum of
300 tons per month for four years on terms which
show a fair profit.” The whole report is, in fact,
a w'hoop concerning the demand for the co.’s
ore and the improvement and gre t value of the mine.
Yet for the better part of two years shareholders allowed
a sulky Board to keep the mine shut down on the plea
that it wouldn’t pay to work it. The co. is still in a good
financial position, in spite of its long sulk ; at the end of
January it had £7506 cash in hand, and ore on hand, etc.,
more than counterbalanced sundry creditors.
• * * *
Thomas Gibb, managing director of Glasfford
Creek (Q.), in a report dated Feb. 1, gives a lot of infor-
mation about the chalcopyrite copper ore in that show.
Results gave an average furnace recovery of 4| p.c.
copper from 12,805 tons of ore ; but it is significantly
remarked —“ To obtain this quantity, 45,000 tons of lode
material, exclusive of over-burden, have been broken and
removed.” This seems to mean that the stuff was
picked. Gibb reckons costs, inclusive of smelting,
mining, and administration, at 40s. per ton, at which rate
a 4 p.c. recovery means that copper will cost £SO to
produce. Local conditions at Glassford Creek are
thus at present unfavorable to cheap production.
Still “the value of silver and gold in the matte
produced covers all cost of transport and realisation.”
The assays of smelting ore averaged over 4dwt., which,
on 4 per cent, ore, means soz. of gold per ton of copper ;
so it figures out that transport and realisation cost
£2O per ton of copper. There is, however, some hope for
Glassford Creek and Mount Hector even on this basis ;
for one thing, the estimate of costs seems to be abnormally
high for ore mined on the open-cut system, and which
presents no great difficulty in smelting.
* * * *
The Gibb Copper Mines, Ltd., Brisbane’s
recent Central Queensland float—the co. consists mainly
of the metallurgical Gibbs and their following—is in
95,000 shares of £1 each ; but only about half are issued,
and 4000 contrib. shares will supply the working capital,
so. that things are not going to be lavish. The co.’s
leases, srie l Out by Allan Gibb, lie between Bundaberg
and Mt. Perry ; the chief of the five leases in the group
were formerly known as the Caledonian and the All
Nations. On the Gibbs’ recommendation the shares
offered were promptly over-subscribed. Directors are W.
M. Thompson, A. Overend, and A. Gibb. Prospects are
good for the money ; the Caledonian shows fair copper
and silver values, and the All .Nations considerable gold.
And these are not the only five claims worth developing
in that part of Queensland. ■
There is a mining movement in the Mt. Flora
district, back from Mackay (Q.)—a district that has had
but little prospecting. At least two Brisbane syndicates
are at work there, and have sent along samples going up
to 20 per cent,, copper, and some silver. But one always
suspects 20 percent, copper assays made under such circum-
stances. It takes a man honest far above the average to
get out an average sample from a lode or pile. He means
to be honest, and often he is the biggest loser by hum-
bugging himself; yet, perhaps most times—certainly a
vast 0 number of times—he does humbug himself, for
all that.
* * • *
North Queensland tin mining estimates and
assays are not being verified by the battery. Dalziel’s
recent return of £I6BO worth of tin concentrates from
570 tons ore may be improved upon if the reports about
high-grade ore in the mine are correct. But those
reports are beginning to get tiresome. One lot of 14 tons
18cwt. from a private party certainly returned £390 :
but, with this exception, most of the crushings at the
Gurrumba mill (Reid’s Creek) have been disappointing.
Now that they know that 570 tons of their ore realised
£I6BO worth of concentrates, Dalziel’s shareholders may
reasonably be anxious to know what charge is made for
crushing their ore. The stuff has to stand cartage to
the mill, and there John Moffat has to get his profit.
Smith’s Creek, Stannary Hills, and the Vulcan all give
returns equal to about £3 per ton of ore, and, though the
Vulcan is the best placed, in neither case does the yield
allow much margin to cover any big drop in the value of
tin. Smith’s Creek lowest level is heavily charged with
copper pyrites, and the latest reports have more to say
about timbering and securing the ground than they used
to have.
* * * *
Gilmore’s tin mine (North Queensland) is still
a bright spot in a rather dull and over-capitalised group.
The Dolly Gray shaft is down 145 ft., and a drive south
some way up from the bottom shows a lode about 3ft.
wide of rich ore. Another shaft is being sunk about 60ft.
away, and it carries 6 p.c. tin ore, which is fairly good,
but a big climb-down from the rich stuff got in sinking
No. 1 shaft. Gilmore’s has no less than 90,000 shares,
and, in view of that, not enough development has been
done to make it anything but a gamble so far.
* * * *
The Chillagoe debenture-holders met in London
lately and talked over the Etheridge extension. They
were assured that the extension would pull the Chillagoe
line out of the mud. The Chillagoe line, they were told,
had turned the Government’s Cairns-Mareeba line from
an unprofitable undertaking into a concern that made
£32,000 a year over working expenses, and the Etheridge
extension would do the same for Chillagoe. It wasn’t
mentioned, however, that, if the £32,000 is a regular
thing, which it isn’t, it wouldn’t pay more than about
one-third Of the interest bill. Still the Chillagoe people
are in a much better position with regard to the Etheridge
line than the State is ; the latter has to take most of the
risk, and the co. takes the best of the profits, if there are
any * .
■ Cloncurry (Q.) correspondent Every piece
of land carrying a stain of copper is now being pegged
out.” Which is a strong tip to the Southerner to require
the opinion of some solid and independent mine-examiner
before he dips into the northern copper gamble.
* * * *
West Cloncurry Copper, Ltd., has a good-
looking show in its Mt. M’Cabe—a big schistose dyke,
800 ft. long and 70ft. wide, with runs of malachite and
red oxide in small iron veins. Two shafts have been
sunk 200 ft. apart. In No. 1 shaft at 72ft. a crosscut
north is in schist, carrying green carbonates, and south in
schist and ironstone. No 2 shaft has been sunk 20ft. in
ironstone, with veins and nodules of red oxide. The
average copper values for all the workings is -5 per cent. ;
the average of both-crosscuts is 5:6 per cent.
* * * *
The Bonnie Doon, a small, ideal two-men show,
out towards the Imperial, at Charters Towers, is courting
disaster by its haste to tear out all the stone there is in
sight. There are two holes in the earth, with a connect-
ing drive at the water level some 60ft. down. These two
holes and the level comprise the wholeof the development;
yet rising and under-hand stoping have been in full swing
since flotation. A parcel of 37 tons has just been put
through for an average of £l2 13s. 7d. per ton. Appa-
rently the directors had a hazy idea about the value
of the stone, for someone pegged out the block on the
underlay, and sold it to the Bonnie Doon co. for 20,000
shares ; and some of the shareholders are making ruae
remarks.
* * *
The Union Consolidated Copper Co., the S.
Australian concern of which a poor opinion was expressed
in B. 14/3/’O7, has floated off the Lyndhurst Copper Co.
London papers were, as a preliminary, fed with yarns
about the “remarkable profits” made by the union,
.“although production only began two or three months
ago.” The thing has been so well boomed that consider-
able trading was being done in Lyndhurst when the
London mail left;. Yyhether the shoiy.s are good or worth-
less—worthless, anyhow, to a big co’.—the methods ot
the people who have the thing in hand'couldn t be much
worse. Visiting examiners have been refused permission
to inspect; and the list of the Union directors was sub-
mitted in a misleading way—as, for instance, rercy
Elliott, Esq., Stock Exchange,Melbourne,” when no Percy
Elliott is a member of the Melbourne Stock Exchange.
Also, regarding this Lyndhurst “ pup,” where are
the “ remarkable profits ”, that are being made ? r urther,
so far as copper shows are concerned, in nine cases out of
ten the surface Stuff gives ton for ton bigger profits
than any other part of the mine, so the remark that pro-
fits are remarkable “ though production only began two
or three months ago,” is generally misleading. The
whole basis of the boom appears to be one man’s report;
and that man’s report consists largely of things the
vendor told him. The Lyndhurst’s capital is stated to be
£200,000. If it started as a prospecting venture with a
paid capital of £2OOO it might pass muster. *
The Accident branch of a life assurance concern
with its head office in Melbourne, has issued a “ Proposal
for Trained Nurses’ Sickness Policy,” which offers a
weekly compensation of £1 for any sickness which shall
wholly incapacitate the assured one from pursuing her
occupation, but makes the special proviso that it “ does
not cover the assured for any ailment incidental to, or
consequent upon, maternity.” In refusing to take any
risk as regards the morals of the ministering ange.s of
the sick-room, the office shows a selfish indifference to
the claims of the Commonwealth’s birth-rate. It might,
at least, have permitted the policy to cover one acci-
dental baby. *


A bad taste in the mouth reminds you that
your stomach is in a bad condition. It should
also remind you that nothing is so good for a dis-
ordered stomach as Chamberlain’s Tablets. They
build up the system, not tear it down like the
ordinary pill.*
An eminent lung specialist stated in a
lecture before the British Conference on Con-
sumption that “nothing goes right while the
stomach is wrong.” All authorities agree that
there is no lung remedy equal to Angier’s Emul-
sion for keeping the digestive organs healthy.
Pleasant to take, it promotes appetite, aids di-
gestion, and improves nutrition. It is unequalled
for all lung affections. In three sizes, of all
chemists.*
HALF-A.-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia', anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Itan ” : He the bush hay controversy.
Whether it will pay or not to store fodder for the
lean years, a number of the squatters in West
Queensland are doing so. One station has 8000
tons left from last year’s surplus feed. J. Payne,
who represents the Longreach district in the
Assembly at Brisbane, told me that bush hay
could be stacked for ss. per ton over large areas
of Central-West Queensland, and there are few
men more qualified to express an opinion. On
the great plains the blue and Mitchell grasses at
full growth stand as even as a wheat field, so
that mowing machines can be got to work. Cart-
ing and stacking do not cost a great deal. Much
of the ensilage Jimmy Tyson made (referred
toby “S.R.”) was from lucerne patches, which,
of course, added the cost of cultivation to the bill.
A stack near Chinchilla, opened during the Great
Drought, was 15 years old. But the western
grasses make ensilage equal to lucerne, and that
is saying a good deal. They are, of course, much
more nutritious when put into silos than if mert ly
turned into hay. The general opinion amongst
squatters is that it pays to store feed for the stud
herds, but not for the flocks, if the drought is long.
Yet they recognise that, if the spell only lasts
one season, they are on the right side of the
ledger even if the hay or silage cost £2 per ton,
for it is during such spells of adversity that the
produce ring corners the market and squeezes the
purchaser. With stock and station produce at
the present prices it would pay well to store feed,
but the average bush cocky trusts to Providence,
and, if near a railway, to the concessions offered
for the carriage of starving stock and the special
drought rates for feed.
• * * *
Recent discoveries of more caves at
Buchan, beyond Bairnsdale, raise the suspicion that
Victoria is trying to do another injustice to the
poor Ma State and rob it of the profits of the famous
Jenolan holidaying place. The latest exploration
party found a veritable crystal palace close to the
township—a mile long, wide, and with a high
roof. It has an exceptionally beautiful show of
the wonderful “curtains”—glistening sheets of
fleecy clouds, that show in the magnesium light
like the hangings with which imagination adorns
the Great White Throne.
* * * *
“ Nobicus ” : At the Glen Innes (N.S.W.)
Agricultural Show this year I saw a bullock
working in a complete set of buggy harness, in a
buggy, driven by a lad. It was driven round the
show ring at a trot, and answered the bit just as
well as any horse. The same bullock is ridden in
the streets of Emmaville with bridle and bit.
“ Paul Cupid ” : I rise to assail “ Duroc.”
“ Batlow ”is right. The horse is possessed of a
marvellous homing instinct, and “Duroc’s” ex-
perience of his nag taking him to a strange place
one dark night when “going home late from
town ” can’t disprove the fact. We’ll analyse
“Duroc’s” case. He owned the horse for years,
he says, rode him to and from that township
regularly, and the night he trusted to his moke
he went off the track. The horse was as intelli-
gent as any other horse. Therefore, “Duroc’s”
horse, being as intelligent as any other horse, any
other horse would be as foolish as “Duroc’s”
horse. Now, any other horse which had been in
and out of the same town for several years would
comeoutof it “one dark night ” all rightifhis rider
maintained the perpendicular. But if his rider
elected to ride home leaning at an angle of 45
degrees to port or starboard, the natural intelli-
gence of any horse used to such a rider would
cause him to go on the port or starboard tack to
keep his cargo aboard. If any other horse
would do this, “Duroc’s” horse, being equal
to any other horse, would do likewise. Therefore,
“Duroc” rode home “one dark night’’from town
leaning (from some cause) at an angle from the
perpendicular equal to the angle which the
place where he pulled up made with the point
of his departure from the last pub light he
gazed on. Many a night have I ridden through
a scrub when I couldn’t see the horse’s ears,
and although the bush was as intricate with
crossing and diverging tracks as the course of a
Crick-Willis trial, my nag (and not always the
same one) would take me home faithfully if I let
the reins hang slack and sat straight. The hom-
ing instinct, so far as the bump of locality is con-
cerned, is far more strongly developed in most
animals than in men. I knew a cattle dog to be
taken 180 miles by train. In two days after being
let out, he was home again. By taking a straight
line, which no doubt he did, he could do the
journey in about 150 miles. When a boy, I put a
cat in a bag, and sent it per spring-cart to friends
10 miles away. It was liberated at noon, and at
tea time it was discovered on the table at home
regaling itself on the provender, a rakish-looking,
bedraggled, but returned cat. Now, if a man
with all his boasted intellect and reasoning
powers were put in a bag and dumped down in
an unknown locality, ten miles from starting
point, I wouldn’t care to be without a drink till
that lord of creation returned.
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : Which I’d like to remark re
“Hawkshaw’s” two bets (B. 7/3/’O7) that the
diamond snake isn’t poisonous at all. At least,
that species which comes from “not 30 miles
from Sydney” isn’t; being generically allied to
Morelia Variegata, the carpet snake. In Tas-
mania they call the copperhead (Hoplocephalus
Superbus) by this name, and he is a very deadly
serpent indeed. While, therefore, I will not
deny the death of the rat from the bite, I will
make affidavit that it died of mere mechanical in-
jury. So that if “ Hawkshaw ”is an honest man
he will pay back the wager—or he may post it to
my address. In regard to the question as to
whether snakes slime their meals, I offer no
opinion beyond the remark that, after all, it is a
matter solely concerning the snake—and the meal.
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : I hate to start com-
petitions ; but I must give you one example of
the joys of outback coach travelling. Reached
kindly Kallara once at 4 a.m. after a 100-mile trip
from weary Wilcannia. Had breakfast with the
mail-change groom and cook. Got interested in
his further-out experiences. Found that two
hours had passed comfortably. “By Gidyea!”
I said, “Coolibah Charlie’s a mighty long time
getting the change horses ready. Have they
been lost again ?” “Oh, dear no ; him and Little
Billy’s breaking in a noo pair ta go ta Louth
with. They’ve never bin druv before; but I
expect you’ll git to Louth sometime this week—
QUALIFIED HOSPITALITY.
“ Come and stay as long as you like — two days
if yer like.”
if y’ ain’t smashed up.” I went out; and sure
enough C. Charlie and L. Billy were experi-
menting with an old coach and two raw recruits,
bought only three weeks before at the big Bourke
horse sale. By seven o’clock the horses were
reckoned good enough to try in the shanghai.
“ Good thing ya gotta active passenger with ya,
Charlie, t’open th’ flamin’ gates for ya. S’long
and good luck ! ” We had s’long and likewise
good luck, for we did the 60-mile stage in 20
hours. N.B. and P.S. —Neither of us was killed
very much to speak of.
IT WAS HIGH.
COCKY (connecting the odor of the petrol with the luncheon basket): "Hi, Mister, yer
dinner’s gone bad!”
“ The Prooshan ” : I recently discovered
18 young tiger snakes nested in some stones at
Batlow (N.S.W.). The snake’s egg-clutch ranges
up to over 30. I once took 36 youngli ve black snakes
out of their sable mother at Middle Adelong;
they race indoors on the approach of danger.
Snakes’ eggs are about as long as the first joint of
a man’s little finger, and as thick, and somewhat
top-shaped, the covering white, and like the
inner skin of a hen’s egg. One egg is laid per day
in all probability, as, on finding a clutch of eleven
once, I opened them, beginning at the last in the
row and working up to the leader, and found
them range from live snake to an embryo, evi-
dently laid the day before my observations. The
eggs were all attached, gummed together from day
to day. I inferred from the mature form at one
end and the embryo at the other that the period
necessary for incubation would be about a fort-
night. * ,
Considerable success has attended the
efforts of the Queensland Aborigines Protection
Department to ensure that aborigines are paid
decently for their
labor. The im-
portance of bank-
ing their savings
has also been
impressed upon
Binghi, and
many of him
have banking ac-
counts. At Bar-
ambah abo r i-
ginal station
there are 50 de-
positors, with de-
posits totalling
£l5O. Seeing
something tan-
gible as the re-
ward of their
labors, they have
become excellent , ~ f
workers, and are doing much to remove the beiiel
that the blacks are drones. Recently, 13of them,
under contract to the Lands Department, cleared
60 acres of prickly pear in three weeks.
*'* * *
“ Quidam ” meets a man down from the
‘ , ■ _ . ,
He had come down from Charters Towers to put some
down he fell on his haunches, and drew some splendid
plans of Mills United, East Mexican and Brilliant Free-
hold with his umbrella. It was Saturday, and the city
was crowded, and that umbrella met with a lot of
obstacles but its owner was back in the taihngs-strewn
streets of the North, and stuck to his task. A fat,
hurrying foot would kick the point of the gamp from the
East Mexican crosscut into Mills United underlie; then the
ownerof the foot, catching a suspicion of the real Northern
language which accompanied the diagrams, would look
round as if he were going to deal severely with the offender,
Then, spotting a large, well-dressed man whose demeanor
on. I calculated that, in half-an-hour at least, 150 lead-
ing citizens and others fell into Mills United. Yet no one
remonstrated—he didn’t look like a man who ought to be
remonstrated with. The ideas of Melbourne and Charters
Towers about the correct use of pavements are quite
different; the Towers’ idea is that nothing is too good to
draw a plan of Charters Towers on. If any Towers men
have by accident got into Heaven, it is safe betting
that they are arguing about the Brilliant or the Day
Dawn shoot, and drawing diagrams with their wing
feathers on the golden footpaths to support their theories.
A final complaint from John Moran :
You shut down on me pretty sudden (“ Abo.” 14/3/’O7)
and declare the controversy must end, as the front of
your office is all sticky. Well, I did not start the con-
troversy, and it must have been “ The Prooshan’s” snake
that slimed your office, as mine never did such a thing.
I suppose it is always the fate of anyone who sticks up
for the truth in the face of a popular superstition to be
left friendless. You seem to be very careful of “ The
Prooshan,” anyhow. Is he a relation, or are you mashed
on his sister?
* * * *
“ Gip ” : Was introduced once, in the yard
of a country gaol, to two sleek and highly intelli-
gent-looking criminals, doing a life term. They
were sheep dogs. One day a settler came on them
driving a mob of his sheep. They disappeared
instantly. As they were perfect strangers to the
owner of thesheep, he very naturally resented their
attentions, especially as his sheep had been lifted
before. So, with two others, he secretly watched
the mob, hoping to catch the thief. That night
all three camped a short distance from the mob,
and, being weary, slept the sleep of rude health.
In the morning the sheep were gone. The pur-
suing party pushed on, came up with the mob,
THE LIGHTNING CALCULATOR.
BUTHCHER: "Five pounds, m’am, at 5d. a pound”
(rapidly); "jive jives ’are 35-2s. 11d. As
you’re an old customer, say ’alf-a-crown.
Thank you!”
and, as before, found the dogs silently driving
Q n t h e i r approach the dogs again melted
»»**>«■* •»*. * *■»«»«* *7* w “
made of the surrounding bush, no sign of dog or
man was to be seen. The settler determined now
to see the weird l business through, and as his
friends had to return to their work, he left a small
, in charge and went for police assistance,
rp , J ~ i" y, .a _ p.,y.,nnlt -ind birds were
Ihe small boy had a catapult, and birds wer
numerous, and as a result the settler never set
eyes on his sheep again. Where they were taken,
an( j by whom hidden, in the short interval of
seven hours, remains a mystery. A week or so
j t a p a j r 0 f dogs, looking very much like the
culprits? were seen » an onfhonsl at the hotne of
two brothers, already marked men in the district,
Their sheep were mustered, and two stolen jum-
bucks were found. The dogs and men came up
f or trial. When the two perpendicular animals
sentenced, the police took possession of the
” 31 10 f
P a . lr of horizontal ones. lhey remain P am P e
prisoners to this day. Many persons with sheep-
stealing countenances have tried to buy them, but
the force reckons it has trouble enough without
t h ese an i m als being at large.
THE LYRE-BIRD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of the sunlight
That laughs on the water,
Where the light winds a-ruffle
And small fishes scuffie
And leap silverly
Into the dun light,
Where the long day grows shorter,
And the high hills lean down on
The river they frown on,
We glide silently.
Into the bush
Where the swift shadows darken,
That lean down and mingle
Till the bloods all a-tingle,
And wallabies hide
Under hummock and bush.
Soft, soft, let us hearken 1
For the gully grows narrow,
And cold’s in the marrow.
Here was he spied 1
Hold you the boat—
Heard you no sound ?
Only the drip
Of the oars as they dip,
And the stream at her bows.
Ha ! faint and remote,
At the uttermost bound
That straining ears cover.
List to the lover
Plighting his vows !
Liquid and mellow,
List to him carolling !
How he rejoices
In all the wild voices.
Hear the long trills !
See the proud fellow
In gorgeous apparelling,
Welling out melody !
Hear the wild echoes fly
Swift from the hills !
See the rocks listening
And trees bending over him,
While a wanton wind showers
Soft petals of flowers
To fall at his feet;
Blossoms and glistening
Sun-rays discover him
There, where he’s borrowing
Sunlight and sorrowing,
Blending all sweet.
Little black wife
That listens so shy,
Think’st thou ’tis May-time
He sings all the day time,
May-time and thee?
Why, there was all life
At the heart of that cry,
Torment, impassioned
Rapture, all fashioned
To one symphony 1
All that the river
Speaks to the trees.
What the woods whisper soft
To small star-points aloft
When black night is unfurled,
And the swan-song that ever
Is caught by the breeze,
Soaring up from the sun
When the long day is done—
’Tis the soul of the world.
HARRY SULLIVAN.


Tired in the morning ? There are times
hen the night’s rest doesn’t fit you for the day’s
wk. Those are the times for a stimulant that
U brace you up and stay by you. The best of
tonics is Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Chamberlain’s Tablets, which are perfectly
harmless, gently stimulate the liver and bowels to
expel poisonous matter, cleanse the system, and
absolutely cure constipation and sick headache.
Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
To be Published on MAY 1st.
SUBSCRIBE NOW, AND MAKE SURE
OF GETTING IT.
The Manager speaks
‘ Yes, May 1st. That’s fixed. It has been a
huge task to make ready for the publication of
50,000 well-bound copies of a finely-printed maga-
zine, containing a good shilling’s worth of matter,
and to be ready to publish more if necessary.
“ Special paper, special type, special machinery,
a special mechanical staff—all these had to be
secured. There would be material for a good
magazine article in the troubles of putting out a
Lone Hand. Now we’re ready. ■ The public, in
a very short time, can judge whether The
Bulletin Co. has realised its ambition of giving
to the public an honest shilling’s worth.”
The Editor speaks
“The one thing The Lone Hand isn’t, is a
monthly edition of The Bulletin. It will strike
the Australian note, I hope, every time, but
won’t imitate its illustrious big brother. The
Lone Hand will be a ‘ lone hand.’
“ Why the name ? Well, see the first number.
You’ll be told why, and understand why. A
feature of the publication is to be a frank, honest,
but non-sensational, exposure of public abuses.
We’re not going ‘ muck-raking,’ as President
Roosevelt calls it; but we’re going to be very
serious in spots ; and make some frauds feel very
serious.
“ Features ? To be honest, we’re not going very
much on ‘features.’ There is an American type
of magazine that goes in for ‘ much cry and little
wool.’ Our policy will be to print good things
rather than trumpet up poor things. Every
article, story, verse, paragraph will be a ‘feature.*
We want to sell this magazine to the same man
12 times a year, not ‘ have’ him one month with a
smart feature advertisement, and leave him sorry
he spent his money.
“The usual number of The Lone Hand —if you
want an idea of its contents —will have something
more than half-a-dozen bright stories by skilled
writers, much fine verse, several special articles,
a section exposing public frauds, and scores of
good pictures.
“ In the May number J. E. Archibald begins
his memoirs under the title ‘ Ihe Genesis of
The Bulletin.’ Probably the public verdict
will be that it is the most interesting ‘ copy,’ yet
written in Australia. Accompanying the matter
will be a fine plate for framing, reproducing a
photographic study of J. F. Archibald by W.
Macleod. Probably every Australian will want
to have that photograph. Frank Myers will
write on the late W. B. Dailey, George Ross on
Playing Cards, two of the most capable Parisian
journalists will begin their monthly impressions
of Paris. Australian writers of standing will
contribute verse, stories, articles of criticism, and
so on.
“Do you know that ‘Hop’ of The Bulletin
writes, as well as draws ? He contributes to the
first number of The Lone Hand an interesting
article on his hobby, fiddle-making. A gay little
contribution is that of Miss Grace Palotta, on
‘ The Stage Kiss.’ But it is impossible to mention
all the good things, because all are good things.
“But the artists call for a word. The Lon®
Hand will have a fine range of pen and pencil
men to draw work from. Hopkins, Norman
Lindsay, Lambert, Minns, Spence, Lionel Lind-
say, Souter, Vincent, Sass, Weston, Miss Rod-
way, and others contribute to the first number.
“Throughout, The Lone Hand will be strictly
original, except in the last pages, when it will bid
farewell to its readers with a few pages of frankly
stolen matter. This is partly to provide students
of good writing with ‘ scrap-book ’ selections,
partly to show various editors how to thieve.
There is some deplorably unskilful literary rob-
bery in Australia these days.”
PROPRIETORS’ NOTICE,
You can only make absolutely sure of getting
The Lone Hand by subscribing NOW, either
direct to this office or to your nearest news-agent.
The issue will be large, but so, to all appearances,
will be the demand. Make sure of your copy by
subscribing now. Send 12s. for a year’s subscrip-
tion, post free, to the office or to the nearest
news-agent.
Hand
214 George Street,
Sydney, Australia.
RACE GLASSES
are, and have been a Speciality of ours for many
years past. Our prices, too, are the lowest in
Australia. WHY ?
Cash Buyers,
Large
BUY BEST.
No. 6.— ZEISS GLASS
„ B. „
„ 9.—GOEBZ „
„ 6.— BUSCH „
Buyers,
Old Buyers,
£7 0 0
7 15 0
7 10 0
6 5 0
7 7 0
5 10 0
9.
6.
rigid bar
COMPARE PRICES
Plain Figures.
Cash.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS;
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street*
Precis of an article on “The Cannibal
New Hebrides,” by Beatrice Grimshaw, in
Windsor Magazine for this February: Bhe spent
twenty months there, with daring excursions
Erromanga, Aneityum, Tongoa and Sandwich are
somewhat civilised. MEllicolo, Santa, Tanna,
Ainbrym, and Aoba are almost as heathen
as 50 years ago, and quite as hostile,
on the whole. Much of the New Hebrides
is still unknown. No white man has ever crossed
Mallicolo. England is being politely but surely
pushed off the board in the New Hebrides (says
Beatrice G.). These islands possess the only good
naval harbors for thousands of miles. Ihe Panama
Canal will enormously increase their strategic
value. Division between Britain and France
is impracticable, because both countries de-
mand the same useful and fertile half.
The French steamship services are subsidised
£lB,OOO a year, the British only £GOOO. Britain
only spends the Commissioner’s salary. France
puts in unknown amounts of secret service money.
Seddon, proposing to exchange for Mauritius,
overlooked the New Caledonia bearing. Vila, on
Efate, or Sandwich, is the only town. It is
almost entirely French. The laborers are canni-
bals from other islands. The coffee is extremely
fine. The palms yield twice as many nuts, for
copra, as the Fijian. Mallicolo has about ten
different languages. Its people set an almost
sacred value on pigs. Beatrice Grimshaw nar-
rates striking instances of her temerity, both on
Mallicolo and Tanna.
A FAVORABLE SYMPTOM.
CORCORAN: “ Any improvement in the wife,
Simson ?”
SIMSON: “ She’s gettin' on fine, sir. She was
able to land me on the ’ead with a dish this
mornin', thanks be to God."
“Paul Cupid ” : Near Casino (N.S.W.) a
number of people are prepared to swehr that
there was lately a shower of green frogs. And
there have been other showers of frogs, likewise
showers of fish. Now, when these things come
down, the inference is that they previously went
up (unless they were born up), and the suction
which lifted them up may account also for the
disappearance of larger things, such as Elijah,
embezzlers, cash,«&c. Yet there are no authentic
records of showers of men, which is curious. The
business seems to be restricted to fish and frogs —
at least, I never heard of sheep and cats being in-
cluded. And how high do they go, and how far
do they fall ? The frogs are alive when they come
down. They don’t bounce; they just hop away.
If you dropped a frog 12ft. I believe it would
bounce, and if you dropped it from Heaven it
would almost certainly be stunned. The whole
business is a problem, or afantod, or something.
A BAD SIGN.
MRS. DOOLKY : “Sure, poor Dennis do be lookin ' bad the day, Mrs. Murphy."
MRS. MURPHY (in anguish): “He do that, Mrs. Dooley. He do be breakin' up intoirely.
Sure, it only took six of they policemen to run him in yesterday .”
“ Shingle ” : Frogs are easily “ charmed,”
“fascinated,” or “ mesmerised” (which term is
correct ?) by snakes ; yet they possess very strong
powers of the same sort themselves. Used to
encourage a big green frog about the house to
prey on the cockroaches ; and have often watched
him get one “under control.” Frog and cock-
roach would face each other—frog’s eyes sparkling
like gems ; cockroach unable to move when once
under the spell. In the final scene, the quickness
of the frog almost deceived the eye. He seemed
to take in the ’roach in his leap in such a way
that it must have bumped hard against the back
end of his stomach. Froggy was as swift as a
streak of green lightning when performing the
funeral obsequies of a big fat cockroach.
• • • •
“ Hamer ” : As a mere spectator, I want a
scientific explanation of the hot temper of the
gentlemen who write about snakes. When
“Prickly Lime Juice” remarks that snakes spring
off their tails, “ 64 x 253|” doesn’t calmly contra-
diet him ; he calls
him a blanky per-
verter, talksabout
the smallness of
his “think box,”
makes scornful
allusions to the
new Railway
Station and Cir-
cular Quay —as
“ P r i ckl y’s ”
places of travel —
and heaps bitter-
ness, scorn, and
contumely upon
him. Then “The
Patagonian” calls
them both liars,
and explains that
some snakes
spring off their
tails and some
don’t ; and about
the time that
“ 0.D.V.” has
gathered together
sufficient tempes-
tuous language to
state that snakes
have no tails to
spring off, the
editor closes the
controversy. Compared to their animosity, sec
tarian strife is a mere detail. In fact, as ofte
as not the enraged “ Abo.” contributor signifies
that if “Prickly” will arrange a meeting he wil
prove him mistaken by measures sterner than
words. Why all this hostility? Is it such a per-
sonal insult to “BxB x 9 x 26^’.that anyone
should say snakes spring off their tails.
• * * *
Up in Queensland they reckon that, on
the new Cloneurry railway, they will have from
Nonda Downs onwards the longest straight run
in Australia. There are 47 miles of it. Queensland
had better not let Carruthers hear it blow to that
effect, however, or the Premiers Conference in
Brisbane will be off. From Nyngan to Bourke
there are 120 miles of track, and the line only
wobbles for a second, and that is where the
engineer turned his head away to sneeze when
making the survey.
* * * *
“ Mooch-about ” : Lake Cowell station,
in the Marsden (N.S.W.) district, holds the snake
record. At shearing time the rouseabouts go out
in wet weather and on Saturday afternoons and
kill as many as 2000 !-yes, 2000-reptiles in one
dav They drop off the roofs, camp m the bunks
_in fact, you can’t walk without meeting a rep-
tile The homestead is surrounded with a fane-
meshed snake-proof wire-netting, dug 3ft. into
the ground. Many shearers will not accept a pen
at Lake Cowell shed on account of the snakes.
Some condensed geography :
The Journal of the Victorian Geographical Society,
fust issued, has a paper read by Captain Barclay on lus
Central Australian Exploration, in country bounded
westward by the telegraph line and the Finke River, east
by the Marshall and Hay Rivers, north by the Mac-
Donnell Ranges and the Plenty and Marshall Rivers. He
refers to the Finite as an “ immense river,” which comes
from the Mae Donnell Ranges and discharges into Lake
Eyre. It is mostly underground, running on the surface
perhaps once in 20 years, yet water is to be got all the
year round by sinking in the sand of the bed. Unfortu-
nately the Marshall and Hay Rivers are not so reliable.
The MacDonnells are very wonderful ranges, running 400
miles from 2000 ft. to 4000 ft. high, exceedingly rough,
mineralised from end to end. They are intersected by
gorges, with walls, in some cases, 2000 ft. or more high#
These ranges have gold, galena, silver, copper, and mica.
Barclay saw in many places mica beds extending for
enormous distances. The Arltunga goldfields have not
been successful because of cartage and for lack of ex-
perienced miners. Dalhousie Springs are very remark-
able, with artesian springs of immense size, some cold as
ice, some nearly boiling, some strongly impregnated with
minerals, others quite fresh. Many have medicinal
qualities precisely similar to the great Spas of Maoriland
and Germany. You can get a boiling spring half a mile
long.
The Government intends to make a number of artesian
bores right through into Queensland. It began opera-
tions at Anacoora with the greatest success. The bore is
a quarter of a mile deep, and has a flow of 700,000 gallons
a day, perfectly fresh and good. The water at first rose
40ft. above the surface, yet the lagoon or lake into which
the water flows is only 400yds. long by 200yds. wide,
and about 18in. deep. Where the water goes is a mystery.
Bulrushes spring up all round the margin. The
same sort of rushes spring up round all Central
Australian bores,; and they are different from any
other bulrush that Barclay has seen. Where the seed
comes from is a puzzle. There is a desert all round, and
yet you see this vegetation 10ft. or 12ft. high.
Leaving Anacoora the explorers got into desert. The
sand ridges ran like waves of the sea. Between each
there is a narrow valley. The waves varied from
70ft. to 200 ft. high. The party travelled 120 miles
between two of these sandhills, and saw nothing
but sky. The ridges were so steep that travellers
could not get out of the valley except by dis-
mounting and climbing on foot. The explorers were ten
days between those sand ridges. At last, they saw a
hitherto undiscovered range, and named it Bonython
Range. On the sand ridges are spinifex, scrubby bush,
and a herb (called by the natives Parakillia), a sort of
pigface, growing in large clumps, with a beautiful purple
flower. The leaves and stem are full of watery sap, on
which camels can live. After 10 days on this, they hardly
cared to touch water.
Beyond the Bonython, there was a small waterhole,
caused by a heavy thunderstorm. Innumerable birds
came from heaven knows where, like swarms of bees.
From this, the party went on to Todd River, so called.
They put down deep wells in the bed, without any suc-
cess. Hard-pressed for water, they had to steer for a
station, for a day’s halt. From this, they pushed east to
Hale River. After difficulty in passing high spurs of the
Mae Donnell, they crossed the Illogwa River, thence N.E.
through very fine pastoral country. Found several large
rivers not previously mapped, but no surface water,
though the country was beautifully green. Struck water
by well in the Plenty River. Millions of rabbits along the
banks. Natives fat and happy. Finished up on the Finke.
* * * «
Pine Creek (N.T.), the terminus of the
Flying Scotchman, is now a one-horse village. No
one there but Government servants, a pub, saddler
and storekeeper. Most of the mines are shut
down, and two weary batteries, worked entirely
by Asiatics for Asiatics, represent the industry of
the chief inland town in the province of God-
forgotten.
THE RAINLESS BELT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sandstone outcrop everywhere,
Mica specks that glint and glow,
Grass that withers in the glare,
Dust that drifts like dingy snow ;
Blue smoke-wreaths that move and melt
Lead you through the rainless belt.
Now and then long bullock-teams
Toil across the swathe of sand,
Wending, from a land of streams,
Towards a further watered land
As the creaking axles haste
Onward o’er that silent waste.
Yet therein are shrubs that thrive
In despite of years of drought—
Hardy grasses keep alive,
Strange stray blooms come peeping out,
Holding nectared chalices
For their vagrant friends, the bees.
It lies between the peopled lands,
And all creation holds aloof;
It bears no mark of human hands
Nor any sign of heel or hoof;
An unproductive tract and dry,
With nothing ’twixt the earth and sky.
The majesty of space it hath,
Of brooding silence almost felt.
For unfrequented is the path
• That leads you through the rainless belt.
It has no use for man or beast—
’Tis merely level West-and-East!
There’s subtle grandeur in that space,
That scorn of needy living things ;
There are no waters on its face,
No winding streams nor limpid springs ;
And therefore man has never dealt
In parchments with the rainless belt.
And whoso loves the earth and sky,
The night, the stars, the moon and sun,
And for a little space would fly
From things that eat and sleep and run,
Shall breathe therein eternal breath
That knows no tale of life and death.
VIC.
O. G. A. OOLLES.


It is proposed that Australia shall be placed in wireless telegraphic
communication with the South Pole per medium of the British South
Polar expedition.
We find hope in this that we may hear again of that valued friend
whose absence from their cartoons is plunging our artists Into gloom.
NICE AND ’UMBLE.
He hoped the time was far distant when they should cancel the existing arrange-
ment for an Australian squadron. He opposed Captain Creswell s scheme for the
establishment of an Australian navy, on the score of expense and inutility.— Tasmanian
Premier.
The general impression conveyed by the debate was that the Liberals desired to
give the colonies a reminder that they owed their security from foreign aggression to
British magnanimity, and that their obligations to the Mother Country oh this acoount
left them no reasonable ground for expecting trade concessions in return for their
preferences.— Age." on Commons Debate.
Gentleman of the Tasmanian-Premier Kidney :
“Take no notice of the youth, sir. It
does make us so nice and ’umble, sir,
to feel we are beholden to you, sir-
even if we do pay for It, sir!”
Captain H. Noyes, the commissioner for the South Pacific for the
Imperial Legion of Frontiersmen, called yesterday on the Minister
of Defence. The new organisation has been initiated in London as
a bond of union between men throughout the Empire who are prepared
at a moment’s notice to go to any part of the world in defence of
the flag.— Age.
Even to Chowth Africa, The Bulletin supposes.
A new military corps—“ The Guides"—is being formed,
comprised of surveyors and agents.
Agents I Well, if It comes to a question of an appropriate
uniform, we might suggest-but there, we’d better not! ”
The Wesleyan outcry against euchre parties, etc., Inclines us to the belief
that the Demon of Darkness patronised by the Wesleyan divines Is a
ravening lion of the above type.
MORE OR LESS APPOSITE.
t J h6 V,c . torian Government refuses to “let the matter drop" in consideration
ot wren and co. magnanimously surrendering the keys of their now useless tote
premises, etc., and is going on with the prosecution.
Willie Sykes : •• Wot—l not only gracefully concurs in the arguments you
presents, but I gives yer up me Jemmies and me little bag wot used to
bold the swag, and then you ain’t satisfied I I never heard tell o’ such
disagreeable ness in all me life I! ”
TOTES, BULLS, BEARS, &c.


The Acting-Prime Minister arrived in Sydney yesterday. “ I hope, he
savs ‘to h"ve an interview with Mr. Carruthers. lam aware that there
has been some friction, but I don’t think that, if it is closely examined, it
can be considered of a serious nature.”
Fat Person: “ No, I haven’t got time to tidy, up or
clear away the rats. I’m too busy considering
the wrongs Federation is doing me.”
The 600 hens which have been ,l|ustling tor tho past
12 months in an endeavor to break all previous records
terminated their labors yesterday in'a veritable triumph.
They were under test in connectiorf with the filth
annual egg-laying competition organised by the Daily
Telegraph, and the way they
out-distanced their predecessors
would make the latter feel sijial!
if they had any appreciation for
figures. Sytf. D.t. ■■
If the Acting -Prime Minister.examines “it” carefully
rand he’U want a very-powerful magnifying glass) he
will see a very small man waving a disproportionate y
large flag.
Cock»o’-the-Walk : “ Look
hero, Mister Whiskers
Ward; I don’t know what
■ you call this, but I call it
sweating our poor hens just
to advertise your old rag, .
and in their name 1 protest. ’jd
A GRBFN-UOOUS EXHIBIT—TOO LATH FOR THIS YEAR’S
AGRICULTURAL SHOW. ■
. “ r . td^ nl ' -%-<lc«cral a penny Just now looks trigger than a Cart,
wheel- He has found that a penny fits the .slot telephone* better
“‘ thrummer, ’ and brings in more revenue. - And now » he -m . *
!“ vc Po ni, y postage.” 1! this would only lead up to nennv In it. s
latlon, sty much the better. ' P penny in-tht-slot Jcjtls-
THAT COALITION AND OTHER HAPPENINGS.


I
I
s
WHmWdrlßhDenMnice
Mr. A. Adams, Havelock, Marlborough
N.Z. says:—“l consider that Chamberlain/
Tablets are an A 1 remedy, and the most efficW
procurable for all disorders of the stomach, live
and bowels. I have used them for some time, 6
riving the greatest benefit, and have every cot
dence in recommending them to all in need of s/
a medicine.”* /
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BROKE HIM UP.
ROVAL PERSONAGE : “ Well, how did you like
your sojourn at the antipodes? ”
RETURNED GOVERNOR : “ Oh, all right, until the
grocers started to advertise their insecticide
as under vice-regal patronage.”
Queensland Labor Conference had its first
woman delegate—Mrs. Willis, of Surat—when it
met lately at Rockhampton.
Died, recently, in England, Frederick
Armitage, M.A., Oxon., whom Bishop Barker
imported in 1855 as headmaster of the King’s
School, Parramatta (N.S.W.). He returned to
England in 1862.
Mr. C. E. Pilcher, K.C., has now com-
pleted his 40th year at the bar. He “devilled”
for the present Chief Justice, when in practice,
being one of a trio of devils. “ Jaclc ” Want and
“ Dick ” O’Connor were the two other devils, and
all three did devilish well in after years.
“ Take no money in thy purse ” — 233
parsons died in the United Kingdom in 1906, and
their aggregate estates panned out for £5,638,045,
or an average of £24,197 each. One, the Rev.
Sir Richard Fitzherbert, rector of Worsop, left
£530,548 in this wale of tears. He must have
been sorry to go for his harp.
An ther of the Tysons has passed out—
James, of Riverton South, Hay (N.S.W.), nephew
of James the Wealthy. He went to Hay to
work on his uncle’s station, and for many-years
managed Juanbung and Tupra. This second-
James was also very rich. He died at the age of
67, leaving a widow and four children.
An old Ballarat identity is
a whole essay on hard luck. He
left England when young, and
was lost sight of, being too lazy
to write to the old man at home.
The old man, believing him
dead, concocted a will leaving
£35,000 to the missionaries. Then
he heard that his son was still
alive, and made such a frantic
effort to get at that will to alter
it that he burst a blood vessel
and expired. The son, grown
hoary, put all his savings into
the Premier Permanent Building
Sooiety, which blew up with
such a loud report in the early
nineties. Becoming partially
paralysed he drifted through the
breakers and almost into the
Benevolent Asylum. Now he
has been recommended for an
old age pension, but fully expects, as part of
his regulation bad luck, to be run over by a dray
as he goes to collect the first instalment.
Generally forgotten that Disraeli refused
the offer of a wreath similar to the absurdity with
which gushing admirers crowned Melbourne’s
Judkins a while back—only Dizzy’s wreath was
to be of gold. Disraeli could play the giddy ox
on occasion, but he wasn’t quite a Jud, and when
that pretty self-advertiser of the moment, Tracy
Turnerelli, raised a subscription for the ornament,
Benjamin, the Hebrew, slew him dead.
Died in Hughenden (Q.) Hospital, chiefly
from the effects of an amputation some two years
ago, Roland Morresby, whom Brisbane used to
reckon its dearest old dude. He was a figurehead
of the Lands Office for years, until the retrench-
ments came along. After he lost his billet he
lost a leg, and luck turned against him generally.
He wrote well, and had a pretty gift of rhyme, but
never rushed a printer with it.
Mrs. Mary Combes, wife of Mr. J. Brunei
Combes, who died at “ The Towers,” Randwick
(N.S.W.), on Friday, was a daughter of William
Redfern Watt, of Bumbaldry, near Grenfell
(N.S.W.); and he was a nephew of Dr. Redfern,
of the Nore mutiny, who came to Botany Bay for
expressing his sympathy with the mutineers.
Mr. Watt represented Carcoar in the first Parlia-
ment under the Reform Act of 1858.
About late Dr. James T. Rudall, of
Melbourne :
Rudall and Dr. Barker were the only two surgeons in
Victoria in the early fifties who were fellows of the Royal
College of Surgeons, by examination. Rudall gained his
early experience in the navy. Married a Miss Scott (closely
related to Dr. Barker). First started practice in a very
unpretentious way in Bourke-street, just below the old
White Hart Hotel, but soon removed to a more commo-
dious abode. He was a great stickler for professional
etiquette; and many times broke into a fury when
addressed as “ Doctor.” He deemed it offensive to be so
called. The brass plate on his gate bore the inscription
“ Mr. Rudall.” He never advertised his great operations
as some medicos do, yet they were none" the less great.
He was a master of the knife, and it was really a pleasure
to be operated on by him. He was ambidextrous, which
was one reason for his success.
Macpherson Robertson, the Fitzroy (Vic.)
confectioner, who is better known by his trade-
name of Macßobertson, has
built up his vast business
in about 20 years. In ’B6,
Mae was a journeyman con-
fectioner, and was put off
through slackness of trade.
Instead of looking for a job
at tram-conducting or book-
making, like his fellow un-
fortunates, he put his savings
into raw sugar, spent a week
making lollies in the bath-
room of his little four-roomed
cottage in Fitzroy, and
the following Saturday
went out with abasket-
ful on his head. Mac-
Robertson, pushing
cleared his output by
Saturday night. He
put in another strenu,
his trade in a powerful
Caledonian voice,
ous week, and, by the
end of 10 months of
such work, was able
to buy a horse and
cart, having in the
meantime made more
than he would have
done had he kept his billet. The horse and
cart grew into two horses and two carts, and the
plant and machinery were taken from the bath-
room to a shed in the yard. From that day, Mac
bas been adding to his establishment until now
it covers some acres of ground, and the garage
bolds four motor-cars. The original bathroom
still stands in the centre of the boiling-room—a
sort of holy of holies, which the proud proprietor
exhibits to distinguished visitors.
This week’s Victorian “claimant” is
Arthur William Frederick Page, painter, of
Carlton. Page says he is the sole surviving
grandson of the late Colonel Page, who served in
the Indian mutiny, and was the last holder of the
Page estate, “which comprises 60 square miles,
covering one-third of the Middlesex suburbs of
London and part of Hertfordshire.” Apparently,
this unconsidered trifle has been lying round loose
and tripping up foot passengers since the colonel
j f ifc _ f g s ” id to & worth £2 ,000,000 a year ;
and man who knows how to aint could J ive
bri ht red decoration to a goo d many Australian
townships on £2,000,000 a year,
* , . . .. . ~ . ~
The most interesting incident on the oc-
casion of the departure of a great Australian from
native came . t B trifle too late to at .
tain ifcg begt effect . rf he boat was a couple of
hundred yards from thepier, whenaflushed woman
of about 36 came charging through the crowd, from
thetownend ,reached the edge, and gazed after the
sh i p i n consternation. “ What, has he gone ?”
s b e cried, and shook her umbrella furiously at
the departing vessel. Whoever the object of the
lady’s chase might have been, the crowd sincerely
regretted her late arrival. In its soul it hoped that
she had intended to strike the great departing
Australian with her gamp, and grieved that it
hadn’t seen her do it.
THE PROSPERITY STAKES.
We must, however, be content to develop slowly, and
not be disappointed when we find it impossible to bring
all parts of the empire into line.—Argus on Tariff Re-
formers.
THE OLD FOSSIL : “Ah, you wicked boyl Y'
think more of winnin’ the race than yer do
of yer dear old mother. Why dontcher stay
with her?”
AUSTRALIA : “ Well, why doesn't she get a decent
nag ?”
“ Hexham ” : According to Sydney Tele-
graph of March 25, a Mr. Owen Brady, of the
Carcoar (N.S.W.) district, who celebrated his
hundredth birthday last week, served in the 10th
Foot, or “ Holy Bobs,” during the Peninsular
War. As that struggle ended in 1813, this
veteran, if the tale be true, must have closed his
active military career before he was seven years
old. The mention of San Sebastian and the
statement that Brady’s commander was General
De Lacy Evans, suggest that he made one of
the ill-starred British Legion, which that general
led, in 1835, to the assistance of Queen Christina
against the Carlists. But as no. British regular
troops took part in the Spanish civil war, and as,
moreover, the centenarian is stated to have come
toN.S. Wales in 1832, what Peninsular conflict
he was engaged in remains a deeply-buried
mystery.
Mrs. George Augustus Selwyn, whose
death at the age of close upon a century is
reported from London, represented a large band
of Selwyns long associated with Australasia. She
was a Miss Richardson ; and when the original
Selwyn married her, he was cast out of a Cam-
bridge fellowship, Cambridge having an objection
to matrimony. This led him to quit England ;
and he became' first Bishop of Maoriland. He
afterwards returned to England, and became the
Gaiters of Lichfield. The old lady remained 29
years a widow, and a time back walked to a
church service at Lichfield, accompanied by a
parsonical son, two daughters-in-law, four grand-
daughters, one grandson, and one great-grand-
daughter. One of the Australasian sons, John
Richardson Selwyn, became first Bishop of
Melanesia. He married one of the Morts, of
Sydney. A cousin, Dean Selwyn, held New-
castle (N.S.W.) for 32 years. There are also
military Selwyns, and University Selwyns, and
other Selwyns.
“G. Elburg” : There is an artist in the
Holy City who draws inspiration from
a spring into which no other artist
that I ever heard of dips a bucket.
He first squeezes colors from all the
tubes on to a smooth, flat board, and
mixes them indiscriminately and with
great rapidity. Then he seizes
canvas, slaps it on the mess, and the
result is Something that looks like a
battlefield after heavy slaughter,
mixed with a chrysanthemum show.
He pats the canvas by a high-kicking
process with the sole of his evening
shoe; sometimes he kicks, the shoe
to the other side of the studio and
lightly draws his socked foot across
the embryo picture. The canvas is
put on an easel, and he lights a
cigar and looks at the gorgeous
smudge through the smoke for a sug-
gestion. It may suggest a dust-storm,
bush-fire, midnight on the Torrens,
cows feeding before breakfast, or a
small devil ringing the dinner-bell in
ISheol. Whatever the inspiration is,
he seizes it and gets to work. More-
over, he always has a picture or two hung in the
S. Australian Art Society’s show.
The aboriginal “King Bobby,” of Bum-
berin, Byron Bay (N.S.W.), died on March 26,
of senile decay. By repute he was the oldest
aborigine in the State, his years being vaguely
computed at from 100 to 105 years. Probably he
was about 80 or 85, and even that would be no
small heap of years for our black brother. His
son Harry Bray succeeds to his “ throne.” Bobby
was buried alongside his lubra on the beach.
“ Viator ” writes :
An extraordinary woman died lately in Florence (Italy),
aged 74—Jessie White Mario. She was English, born in
Stockport. At an early age she became infatuated with
the cause of Italy, under the inspiration of Mazzini. As
Miss Jessie White, she was the star and idol of the Italian
exiles in England. She went to Italy, and became mixed
up in all the conspiracies. Marked by the police, she was
imprisoned at Genoa, where she married Alberto Mario.
In Garibaldi’s campaigns she evinced great bravery in
attending the wounded. Garibaldi said she was only
second to his famous wife, Anita, and gave her a military
decoration. Like that transcendent patriot, and Mazzini,
she would never abate a jot of her republican convictions.
The Italian Government, in later years, wanted to give
her financial help, but she would accept naught
from the hand of monarchy. She earned a precarious
support by teaching English. Her portrait is before me,
as a woman of 70, truly beautiful, with the fire of altruism
in her eyes. Such are the salt of the earth, of whom it is
not worthy.
One of the pioneers of pastoral Queens-
land still remains to reminisce about the bullock
and heifer of the early days. Ex-P.M. Pinnock,
now resting from official toil at Brisbane, landed
in Moreton Bay in 1839, and went squatting with
his cousin, David Forbes, afterwards a District
Court Judge in N.S.W. The Crimean war
stirred the Jingo spirit of young Pinnock, and he
fled to England by the gradual means of convey-
ance then available, only to find that Sebastopol
was ancient history. So he crawled out again by
the gradual vessel of the period, and went into
the Civil Service. In the early seventies he was
transferred from the Bench at Dalby to Brisbane,
where he fined drunks and urged the wife with
the blackened eye to make it up with her Bill
Sikes, till a few years ago, when he became
Sheriff. In 1902 he went off on pension. “Pa ”
Pinnock’s mother came from a Scotch family of
some potatoes—the Grants, of Monnymuish, who
have hung on to some kind of a castle beside
the Don River for 600 years or thereabouts.
Most of the members of the present
N.S.W. Ministry have carried off prizes for one
game or another. Hogue won a bit by billiard
playing, and is still open for a Tattersall handi-
cap. Wade pulled off several cups as a three-
quarter footballer. Ashton won three pedestrian
handicaps at Hay. Moore is an expert rifle shot.
O’Conor is a cricketer and Lee a champion walker.
Carruthers fishes, and gets a bite occasionally, and
as a worm-drowner he is above the average.
Also Brunker was one time a rather expert boxer
in Maitland.
At 82 South Australia’s grand old woman,
Miss Catherine Helen Spence, has produced
another book—her first novel, in two volumes,
was published 52 years ago. The 82-year-old
book is serious, of course—a history of the board-
ing-out system adopted nearly 40 years ago by the
S. Australian State Children’s Department. It
is designed as a monument, not to Catherine
Helen Spence, who most deserves it, but to Miss
Clark, for 40 years Miss Spence’s co-barracker
for, and, later, her co-administrator in, the State
Children’s Department.
“ E.” writes :
Apropos Footseray (B. 21/3/’O7). In the early fifties
one Bottomley, a large, flabby man, owned a big tract of
boulders (he called it “ land ”) at Footseray. When the
roaring of the fifties ceased, and attention could be given
to mundane things, Bottomley conceived the idea of
founding a large town at Footseray, which then consisted
of a few weatherboard shanties. Accordingly he had
the placed surveyed ; had huge lithographs printed ;
established an office in, if I remember rightly,
Collins-street West, and opened out in splendor.
He sold on easy time-payment, and the working-
man and small investor were going to have a rural para-
dise on the top of Bottomley’s rocks. Things boomed for
a time, but eventually they slumped, and Bottomley was
reduced to carrying his office under his arm and per-
sonally canvassing for buyers. He was very eloquent
about his rocks, but, with few exceptions, the buyers for-
feited their payments, and Bottomley’s Eden either went
to the bank or became an insolvent estate. The neigh-
borhood of Footseray is historic as a hunting-ground
where red-coated men and musical hounds pursued
a herring to the bitter end. Here in 1879 W. P.
Bowes, a hunting man well-known in Sydney, met his
death by falling off the brother of the great steeplechaser
Saucepan, and breaking his skull on one of Bottomley’s
unsold boulders. Bowes was for a time starter at Rand-
wick, and kept the old inn near the racecourse.
Henry Cufchbert, Victorian M.L.C. and
Ballarat solicitor, who is now in a hopeless state
of health, is close on 78 years of age. He was
admitted as a solicitor in Dublin in 1854, and left
for Australia in the same year. In 1874 he was
elected to the dreadful Vic. House of Rich Land-
lords without a contest, and he has sat there ever
since. Also, so far as The Bulletin can remem-
ber, he wasalwaysre-elected asamatter of form and
without a contest, just walking out at one door
as an expired member and next minute walking
in at the other as a re-elected member. Cuthbert
had political chances and threw most of them
away. He served under Berry in the days when
Berry was the Tribune of the People, and left him
because Berry sought to reform the dreadful
House of Landlords ; Cuthbert thought that a
House which contained him was good enough for
any country. He was succeeded by (of all men)
James Beef Patterson. Cuthbert served under
Service and under Gillies. Turner took him in
because he needed an M.L.C. and Cuthbert looked
the best of a dreadful lot, and the old man was so
glad to be in office again that he talked almost
like a democrat once or twice. For the last dozen
years he has been a private member gloomily
watching “ the trend of Socialistic legislation.”
Yet he was better than most of his class. In his
early days he was a deep sinker —not beer, but
mines.
VALUABLE—TO WHOM?
It is seen more clearly than ever what a valuable cheek
the Upper Chamber is upon a House of Commons elected
on a temporary wave of public feeling.— Argus.
“ Yaas, be gad! No doubt about it, I'm of great
value to me. In fact, I don't know what I’d
do without myself, don’tcherknow, d’y'see!”
To take Yic. Railway Commissioner Tait
over to Adelaide to catch the Mooltan, the de-
partmental heads reserved him a complete com-
partment in the sleeping-car. But ordinary first-
class accommodation wasn’t good enough for the
imported potentate, so the luxurious 30-ton-weight
of inspection car was hitched on to the express,
and his Magnificence travelled off in solitary gran-
deur. Just before, Deakin had gone as an ordinary
passenger. But then Deakin is merely Australia’s
own home-grown Prime Minister.
Dear Bulletin.— With deep regret I read
in your leading article of 28th ult., the epithet
“ Dago ” applied to a worthy Scotsman, my illus-
trious (possible) ancestor, and at any rate my coun-
tryman, Pontius Pilate. A somewhat mildewed
tradition exists among certain stern and wild
Caledonians to the effect t’ -■ i, shortly before the
birth of Christ, Augustus Caesar sent an embassy
to Scotland, the father of Pontius being one of
the ambassadors. Mrs. Pilate accompanied her
lord, with the result that Mac Pilate, future
Governor of Judea, was born in Glenlyon, Perth-
shire. On the other hand, he may never have
been born at all. There is no mention of his
birth in Roman records ; nearly all we fancy we
know of him we get from Josephus, and there is
evidence to show that the works of that historian
have been more than once tampered with. In
the latter case, it would be still more reprehensible
to vituperate an estimable gentleman who never
existed. —J. A.O.
HIS MONUMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A paltry hundred pounds—£loo,ooo was expected-
have been subscribed in M.L. for the Seddon Memorial.
What need has he for carven stone—what need for
granite pile ?
True heroes live by Deeds alone, surviving greed and
guile !
The Man who died on Calvary, how lowly was His
tomb,
And yet His name in history shall last till crack of
doom !
Brave Martin Luther lies asleep, beneath the humble
sod,
But still his soul, with measured tread, goes marching on
to God 1
Can Ziska die, or Zwinglius?—each name, a blazing
star,
Shall shine when all To-Day’s vain fuss lies scattered
very far.
They hanged the bones of Cromwell high—they spurned
the mighty dead ;
Yet Cromwell’s fame shall never die, tho’ Charles’ brief
pomp is fled !
Can marble make a Nero great?—can granite blot the
shame
Which drags far down from high estate full many a
Ruler’s name?
The Pyramids are useless heaps of Pharaoh-plundered
stone ;
But still the great Galileo keeps his place on Reason’s
throne!
While kings and princes, turned to clay, are feeding kine
and sheep,
Columbus holds eternal sway upon the western deep !
Then talk no more of mortared tiers to keep remembrance
green
Across the stormy sea of years the Chief shall lead,
unseen 1
His monument is Maoriland—he needs no sculptured
gauds
To mark the deeds of his strong hand. Leave marble to
the frauds!
They need the sculptor’s plastic skill to hide their public
crimes ;
Triumphant yet, tho’ cold and chill, HE strikes the era-
chimes !
Rings in the New Democracy ; proclaims the Rights of
Man—
Tho’ puppets dance in office, he goes marching in the van.
vic
GRANT HERVEY.


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution !
Q C
O
-■OL-
Z
Lul
<
LaJ
z:
••
LJ
h-
■Sc
<
c£
UJ
<0
cO
or
UJ
S
o
h
CO
C_>
CO
I .illVri-I
iliffiiiiiiiiiiliiil
vm
me
an
jfUllfiil
m
m
v;v
¥1
H! mntt *
yuUiuiH
f/Z/Z^l
rnTuTPn )i > it n iifj
B
iliii
i
tas
aaa
////>
5S5a
U//A
IHfc!
■
0U
in
BDB
iuMh
SiSSSBE
urn
11=
111
IB
Pi
lIUIUUI
lil
Will
SsS
in
l£U
111
•I
111
IS
ilT§
Ul
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. SYDNEY N S W
BILLIARDS
At
*
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
an
I HI
V'..
v. ■;
PsSiß
BILLIARD TABLES
Mahogany Frame, with Tasmanian Blackwood base,
and four sin. Blackwood legs, but without the leaves
shown in the illustration, Slate bed covered with
Billiard Cloth, India-rubber Cushions, Brass-mounted
Pockets, complete with three Ivory Balls, two Cues,
Marking Board, Chalk, Rules, &c.
Size’ 9ft. sin. x sft., with six 6in. legs
£35.
Billiard Tables, complete as described, fitted with leaves, as shown in the illustration, making
combined Billiard and Dining Table — K K
Size, 6ft. 4in. x 3ft. 4in ss.
Size, 7ft. 4in. x 4ft. ... ... "19.
Size, Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in., with six 6in. legs
MINIATURE BILLIARD TABLE TOPS,
On six adjusting legs, to stand on an ordinary dining table.
These Billiard Table Tops have Slate Bed, covered with Billiard Cloth, India-rubber Cushions,
Brass-Mounted Pockets, and are complete with three Ivory Balls, two Cues, Marking Board, Chalk,
Rules, &c. Solid Mahogany Frame—
Size, 6ft. -in. x 3ft. 4in„ £ll. Size, Bft. 4in. x 4ft. 4in £22.
Size, 7ft. 4in. x 4ft., £l4 10s. Size, 9ft. sm. x sft., £3O.
Billiard Table Iron and
Shoe, 10s.
Pockets
Brushes
Pool Marble Baskets
Pool Marbles
Pool Pins
Mug Pool Pins
Chalk, White
Chalk, St. Martin’s Blue
Chalk, Spink’s Green ...
... ... 4s 9d, 6s 6d set
6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d each
2s 9d, 5s 9d
3s set
3s 6d set
2s 3d set
3d doz.
ls 8d doz.
2s 3d doz.
BILLIARD CUES,
BILLIARD BALLS, &c.
RSI
SIS
p.20-4d.Pf>.Bo.Too
m
Billiard Scoring Board,
9s 6d, 13s Gd, 21s.
Table Billiards, for fastening on any ordinary table, including 6 tapes,
acting as Cushions, 6 Pockets, 3 Balls, Chalk, Tips, and Marker on lid—
No. 1, with Boxwood Balls, 22/6 ; No. 2, with Corapo. Balls, 30s, 455, 545.
ANTHONY HORDERN <& Sons,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS
Palace Emporium,
_ BRICKFIELD HILL,
YDNEY
N.S.W.


1Ak H
V 1
v
&
X
T&
<*
w
Dymock’s Circulating Library r—Dozens of
new books arrive per every English and American mail.
Many are worthy of a place on the shelves of any well-
selected library, the majority are written and designed
to while away a few hours of leisure. Every book by any
author of note is available to subscribers of the above
library. All copies are clean and fresh, and any book, no
matter how expensive or how keen the demand, may be
had for the asking. The country subscription, 8 volumes
at a time, ranges from £1 11s. 6d. for 6 months, and
£2 12s. 6d. for 12 months; the city and suburban rates
from £1 Is. and £2 2s. per annum, shorter periods or
larger parcels at proportionate rates. The most popular
books at the moment are : R. W. Chamber’s “ Fighting
Chance,” which reveals life in New York as seen in the
Thaw trial; Spearman’s “Whispering Smith,” and Parish’s
“Bob Hampton Placer.” Do not leave town without
joining Dy mock’s Circulating Library, 428 George Street,
Sydney.*
It is better to avoid a cold than to contract one that
will perhaps stay with you through the coming winter —
if it does not do worse. Remember that colds are
dangerous—you can never tell what they’ll lead to. If
you feel one coming on, a few doses of Black Currant
Balsam will break it up. It will cure a deep-seated cold
quicker than any other remedy. For Bronchitis and
Influenza there is no surer remedy. Obtainable every-
where. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. Prepared only at
Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
“ Goutez et Comparez.”
BUCHANAN’S
“BLACK
AND
WHITE”
WHISKY
3
1 “CRAV'EriETTES
is lick Are the Ideal Rubrics
It/’RWCOATS.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
[Sydney, April 2, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
Week of the Horse and of the Clothes-Horses
is again upon us. Saturday, first day of the
A.J.C. Neigh, was a weather-sample flung out of
Hades by Satan. “We don’t like over-roasting,”
he said, as he got out of his molten-lava bath,
and began to polish his hoofs with the long hair
of one of the Smart Set. “ Give this temperature
to those who have to take what they get. We,
Ourselves, intended going to that bacilli race at
Randwick to-day, but on second thought we’ll
send Our weather instead. It will do as much
mischief.”
Among the Melbourne visitors who are here for
the Satan sample are Great John Forrest and
consort. The girls here make an idol of the big
Westralian, and on Monday half-a-dozen under-
twenty flutters were giggling and gassing around
him, trying to make him talk fluff. The avalanche
of thistledown talkers seems to amuse the Forrest
lady as much as it does its object. Also; the
southern contingent includes a Landale bride,
an Armytage girl, Baronet Clarke and his
youngest step-sister, Dr. Horace Godfrey and a
sister, Mrs. Ernest Brooks (whose gown of
hydrangea blue and purple with painted- violets
was voted the most picturesque one from down
South), two good-looking sisters —Mrs. Willie
Cameron and Mrs. (Dr.)' Morton—Mrs. Willie
Robinson (daughter-in-law of A. D. Robinson of
the Age, and a champion ice skater), and Miss
Popsy Browne, a smart-looking, golden-haired
damsel, who is a niece of Argus man Donald
Macdonald.
To Monday’s meeting—when the weather was
really delicate and desirable, and the Person
Below had finished polishing his hoofs with
the tresses of the one-time ornament of .the Smart
Set—came the Northeote Excellencies, and Miss
Chandos-Pole, who looks a fine, bright advt. for
“ Engleland,” as Wilson Barrett insisted on call-
ing it. Captain Wilson —no glittering vice-regal
Tail ever had a more popular joint than he—was
present with his sister. They came in the Hima-
laya, and he, of course, belongs to the Rawson
Tail. The Northcotes have Mr. Share, and that’s
a compensation. Miss Wilson is a pure blonde—
her hair is yellow like ripe corn, same as that of
the Damozel who leant over the gold bar of
Heaven looking for her Percy—her eyes are blue,
and she’s as slender as a poppy stalk.
Monday’s dressing was an improvement on that
of Saturday. The most humorous gowning was
that of Mrs. Gaunt —a daughter-in-law of Judge
Gaunt, of Melbourne. Her husband is someone
of a certain importance on one of our warships.
He collected his bride a year or more ago in Ire-
land. She is very fair, not to say bleached-
looking, and she was dressed in fawn cloth cut to
represent a pen-wiper. The lady, who had a blue
fowl standing erect on its feet on a panama hat
posed on a huge pile of copper-colored hair, gave a
tip, by her dressing, to several persons always on
the look-out for omens. They backed Blue Book,
and they will back Coppertop. All the same,
when a fowl, blue or otherwise, is put on a hat or
on eggs, it should be made to sit down to the
work.
Mrs. E. P. Simpson had contrived a beautiful
color-scheme of green—a shade between pale
emerald and mignonette—in a pinafore design
with a deep border of pink roses at the hem of the
skirt. Mrs. Philip Morton had a long, pink
cloth coat over a languishing shade of pink gauzy-
silky fabric, with silver decoration, and she wore
a dying-pink ostrich farm in her toque. Mrs.
Degen’s green chiffon velvet, and black glace
coat with gold and green tracery, was a harmoni-
ous combination, and from her befeathered hat
floated a coffee-hued veil bordered with green
velvet ribbon.
Amongst the tailor-raimented was Mrs. Harry
Manning in a dark blue cloth, piped with green,
with small fans of green silk on the skirt. Mrs.
Tom Rolin’s long dark grey coat and skirt, stiff
white collar and green tie, made a racy get-up.
Shades of petunia are always worn at the wearer’s
risk, but Mrs. W. Chisholm’s attire in tones of
petunia was a success. A pretty little squatteress,
Mrs. Hubert Lord, looked a violet in graduated
tints of that modest flower. Mrs. Burdekin, a
study in vaporish grey and white, had three
feathers, real Ich Dien Haunters of red, brown,
and green, in a green velvet hat.
Mrs. W. Anderson (Miss Eugenie Duggan) was
one of the few artistes present. She had a fall
from a horse in “The Squatter’s Daughter”
drama in Melbourne, and has not quite recovered.
Some time ago a dramatic tree —the real thing,
not cardboard —fell so close to the actress that its
twigs nearly scraped the flesh from her bones.
Playing in Andersonian dramas has its risks.
They are so awfully realistic.
Mr. Hope-Johnston, a cousin of our first
Governor-General, of dislocation fame, aired his
pleasant personality at the Great Neigh. The
most congratulated couple present were the owner
of Poseidon and his wife. A week ago they were
the Hugh Dixsons; to-day and for henceforth
they are the Hugh Dennisons. They have changed
their name. He is a nephew of the big tobacco
man, H. Dixson, who disapproves of racehorses
and all that’s turfy and jockey.
On Saturday Lady Northeote visited the prize-
animal, high-jump, huge-machinery and side-
show Show at the Agricultural Grounds. She
inspected the women’s work display, and said the
diplomatic thing about design and stitch. x'he
Suttor family and Sec. -Somer received her Ex.
Millionairess Miss Eadith Walker took first
and second prizes at this year’s Show, as she did
at the last, for Jersey cattle.
At St. John’s Church of England, Molong, on
March 20, Miss Marjorie Florence Smith, daughter
of Mrs. Wallace Arabin Smith, of Gamboola, and
grand-daughter of John Smith, M.L.C., was
married to Mr. Norman James Holmes, of Yarras,
near Bathurst. John Smith, M.L.C., who died a
few years ago, was a man of many acres, which he
divided amongst his sons, Fergus Jago, Launcelot
Noel, Edwin Ambrose, Claudius, and the youngest,
Wallace Arabin (deceased). The daughters were
Emily Jane, who married first George Innes,
Judge, and secondly, the ex-French Consul of
Sydney; Fanny Blanche, who married Robert
Darvall Barton, of Bathurst; Helen Evangeline,
who wedded W. Harvey Holt, of Queensland;
Annie, who wedded Charles Hampden Barton, of
Wellington (N.S.W.); Mary Edith, who rnarriefl
Marsham Elwin a’Beckett, ot Ashfield, solicitor ;
and Jessie Gertrude, who is the wife of W. C.
a’Beckett, of Nelgowrie. A mighty family were
the Children of Smith.
The youngest of the Ben Osborne girls (Jean-
nette) was married a few weeks ago at Penang
(which place has a hot, yellow-complexioned
sound) to a Civil Service Circumstance named
Peck. There are seven daughters apd five sons of
the Ben Osborne clan. Squatters of the past
generation raised fine families. Another girl of
the Ben branch is Mrs. Willie Manning, who
lives in Sydney, and has one of' the most perfect
profiles in this or any other city. (If this sounds
like M.A.P., please blame the heat. It’s too
muggy to present a beautiful side face in any but
easy, M.A.P.-ish language.)
Miss Ruby Lane-Browne, a Sydney good-looker,
went hence in the Moldavia on Wednesday.
At a recent smart double wedding the brides
took second place in the interest of the guests
when word ran around that there was an unin-
vited reptile present. It was a tortoise,
brought—or, to be accurate, worn —by that
stylish dresser. Mrs. Philip Morton. She
had it suspended from her neck by a gold
chain. The manacled thing was all alive, and
sprawled on its captor’s muff, vainly endeavoring
to get inside and hide. But the turquoise-studded
howdah on its back was not meant to blaze un-
seen, and it vainly sought to retire into private
life. The question is—When the Morton tortoise
is not on neck duty in public, is it catching grubs
in the Morton garden ? And does it go a-grubbipg
in its jewelled howdah? Also, is it ever lost under
the chrysanthemums or in the kitchen garden
whilst its missus waits, unable to go out fully
dressed until the hard-shelled scavenger is found ?
I ask these questions feelingly, for when I have
got into my evening garments, and look round
hurriedly with a view to clothing myself in my
tame grasshopper before I go out, that animal is
sure to have burst out of the wardrobe, and
climbed up a tree in the garden. Never once have
I been able to go out in my grasshopper when I
had especially made up my mind to wear the
beast.
Dr. and Mrs. Oarty Salmon depart presently
for a trip to Asia.
Private Secretary to Premier Carruthers, Mr.
Charles Harkness, has been most of this week
holding out his hands to receive the valuable pre-
sentations made him in honor of his conduct in
taking up the white man’s burden. He is to be
married to-morrow to a fair Mosmanite.
Colonel Robin, chief of the general staff of
Maoriland, is here for those Easter manoeuvres in
which Sydney was surprised and captured by an
oil launch, and Circular Quay was desecrated by
the hoof of the truculent invader. Robin Red
Breast (suppose he wears red clothes) is an
imposing work, published in Maoriland, and not
much over thirty. Other M.L. visitors are Mr.
and Mrs. Arthur Brett. He is the son of Mr.
Henry Brett, proprietor of the Evening Stab,
which glimmers at Auckland.
At the annual meeting of the Royal Alexandra
Hospital for Children, last week, Dr. Clubbe, the
president, set forth the pressing needs of the in-
stitution, and said that if every child in the State
would give one penny the £16,000 urgently re-
quired would be in the committee’s hands. This
is one of the picturesque, off-hand statements
that people make without going into figures. On
the last hot day I let my hair down, and wrapped
a wet towel round my aching cranium, apd asked
if it were worth while to be alive ; and then I
figured out that if 3,840,000 kiddies, out of the
1,500,000 people in the State, gave a, penny each
the £16,000 would be all there. Then I fainted
from mental strain. Still the cause is just
as good a one as it was before I per-
petrated this feat of arithmetic. Those use-
ful persons, Miss Eadith Walker, Mrs. John
Marks, Mrs. A. J. Gould, Mrs. J. B. Christian,
Mr. Arthur Allen, Senator Gould, Mr. A. E.
Jacques and Mr. W. G. Layton, filled vacancies
on the Board of Management.
In city parks and suburban gardens the scarlet
salvia flames brilliantly. Close around the bases of
the Dailey, Captain Cook and other statues, the
salvia gives the idea of sacrificial fires burning
below the altars of graven images.
Mrs. Allen Taylor seized the occasion of this
time of flowers to hold a show and let the blooms
die for a good object. For two days the Town
Hall was given over to the blossoms and blossom-
worshippers, and the proceeds of the exhibition
went to the Thirlmere Home for Consumptive
Women. The Northcote Excellencies came with
their glittering Tail, and the Lady declared the
show open. Often, when I read of events like
this, I go back to the early history of Baby
Genesis to see if this globe was formally opened
when it became fit for habitation, but no trace of
the ceremony can I find. Apparently the one
thing of no importance—the one thing that just
opened itself —was the universe.
A great novelty in roses was shown —a climbing
white Maman Cochet. The original plant was
found in Rookwood Cemetery, having “sported ’’
among the dead from a dwarf plant, and developed
long, spreading shoots covered with magnificent
blooms. It was quickly bought up by the local
nurserymen; and now there are hundreds of
young plants ready to go forth and advertise
Australia. And it is not the first great rose
novelty that Australia has given to the world,
the beautiful Kaiserin Augusta Victoria being of
Austral birth. But why, in the name of a Mad
Potato, were not these rose novelties given names
indicating the country in which they “ sported ” ?
The French woman and the German Empress
roses by these names may smell as sweet, but
they won’t advertise Us. Why weren’t they
called “ Thargomindah ” or “ Girilambone ” ?
Gertrude Walsh, a young mezzo-soprano, who
comes from out-west, will face a Sydney Town
Hall audience on April 11. Forbes and other
important spots that stick out on the continent’s
western face have pinned their faith to Gertrude
ever since the days when her frock only came
down to her knees, and her hair was a pigtail
with a ribbon dancing at the end.
A new young violinist from the fair land of
Poland, where Freedom made that astonishing
noise when Kosciusko became horizontal, arrived
by the Himalaya last week. His name is Leopold
Premyslav, and he will scrape his instrument on
April 10 and 13 at the Y.M.C.A. Hall.
Mr. Benno Scherek (I am weary of the “ Herr ”
business), with his thick, white, milky mane,
plump, pink cheeks, and bar-of-music scarf-pin,
has been in Sydney after a four years’ absence.
He left here, with Ada Crossley, to tour Chow-
Africa. In June he will bring Teresa Carreno
the famous pianiste, to this continent. Her por->
trait shows her as a majestic woman of fifty or so.
In Paris, Mr. Scherek saw Sarah Bernhardt, who
talked him blind. He called on her before 12, and
she talked till nearly two, when she went to play
at a matinee. After the piece the divine Sarah
and he talked some more —that is, he listened —
and then she got ready to play “L’Aiglon.”
Same night the tragedienne and the Scherek met
again, and she talked till three in the morning.
Then Mr. Scherek took his ear to the hospital,
and the medical faculty said that what the organ
required was complete rest.
Definite news comes through that the sky-
towering Clara Butt has booked by the Mongolia
in July. She joins the boat at Naples on the
19th. The weighty Clara is now doing farewells
in the English provinces, and gives a final grand
blast in London before she leaves for Australia.
Miss Constance Clyde, according to the cable,
is in prison with other suffragettes. She demon-
strated with such effect that she got to Holloway
in capital company. Very Somebody women are
incarcerated (that’s a good word) with her. Con-
stance is quite equal to making a Ballad of Hollo-
way Gaol, for she is a clever writer of verse as
well as prose. Her book, “A Pagan’s Love,”
was published a few years ago. Miss Clyde is
a Maorilander, who spent a few years in Sydney,
and then moved on to London.
Over a hundred visiting bowlers are in Sydney.
They scorn the races, look askance at the Agri.
Show, and live laborious and delightful days on
the bowling greens. Two full teams have come
from Victoria, a fine herd from Queensland, and
some from Newcastle and other centres. They
were speeched at on all the greens, and have
speeched back, and always there have been sympa-
thetic references on both sides to the death of
good old John Young, Father of Bowls. Bowls
is a very sorrowful orphan these days.
SomeoneJ,has been listening at the keyhole of
the Quirinal, or wherever the Queen-Mother of
Italy lives, and has heard the lady complaining
that her maid Teresa sold the clothes that her
Majesty had cast off. Then the listener ran to
put it into the English papers that are disposed
of at two a penny. One day the Queen saw a
lady wearing a gown that seemed familiar. The
place was a Roman street (perhaps the very spot
where Marcus Superbus folded his arms on his
collar-bone and asked Mercia, “Teach you in the
public schools, lady ? ”). The wearer of the gown
was going into a shop when she saw Margherita’s
eye on her. Naturally, she was pleased, and
didn’t hurry away. Then the Queen saw the
evidence she wanted—a spot on the hem of the
garment. She had discarded the gown for that
spotted reason.
When she returned home she had Teresa come
along, and by questioning—it isn’t stated that
she put Teresa on the rack, but she may have
hung her by the hair to a nail behind the door—
she extracted the news that the damsel had been
making a thousand a year by the saleof her Missus’s
cast-off raiment. So the Queen felt insulted, and
Teresa left suddenly—not that she was put in a
bag with a brick and three cats, and dropped into
the Tiber; she just left. That was some years
ago, and up to a few months since her Majesty
was being coiffed and dressed by a charmer named
Adele. But, one day, a block in the traffic held
up the Queen-Mother, who was driving in the
Via Something, and during the pause she spotted
a hat worn by a lady seated in a carriage next her
own. That hat, three days before, had been on
her own royal toupee. Adele confessed, without
being boiled over a slow fire, that she also was
laying up large treasure for herself by selling
Margherita’s left-off gauds. She had a room in
the city, where she received clients. These were
mostly Americans, and Adele stipulated that they
should not wear the things in Italy. But the hat-
wearer had betrayed her. Adele was then given
to the lions at the Zoo after being first walloped
to make her tender, or else she was dismissed
without a character, or something. But what did
Mrs. Humbert expect her maid to do with the
things? They were the maid’s perks, and she
couldn’t possibly wear all of them herself. No
wonder the Psalmist wrote that the hearts of
kings are unsearchable.
From Brisbane: —
Departed this week for America the Lewin family—ma
and the girls. They are off to visit an engineer son and
brother in N’Yark. Sister Esther Lewin (Mrs. Dr.
Wilson) will remain to fill the dress-circle seats with
hubby.
The Anglican Archbishop bestowed the cognomen of
Joshua Peter Ferguson on the infant son of the Minister
for Lands on Thursday at St. Luke’s. Afterwards a select
few drank out of the cup that brings an awful awakening,
and cut an elaborate christening cake, in pa’s office in the
Government Buildings. Mrs. Bell was a graceful figure
in black, and Mrs. Joey soothed Joshua Peter Ferguson’s
dislike to cold water in a delicate pink and grey confection.
I hear with sorrow that the engagement lately entered
into by the dark daughter of a deceased banker and a
young squatter, is off. Religious differences, it is said.
Well it seems a pity. I’d marry a Fire Worshipper if I
loved him, and blow the mixture of creeds. Besides, a
Fire-Worshipper would have his advantages. He couldn’t
object to rising early and lighting the stove on a cold
morning.
Really, Toowoomba is an unlucky hole. Someone
forgot to lay the foundation-stone of the hospital until
the roof was on, and it had to be bricked into one of the
chimneys, where neither the Governor nor the Premier
could be induced to do the job. And now, after three
postponements of the vice-regal garden party on account
of the weather, Lady Chelmsford has got ill in Sydney,
and another alteration of date is made necessary. When
we lend you our Governor’s wife in future, you will be
good enough to refrain from giving her the ’flu. It does
annoy the Toowoombaites so.
The first day of the Easter Q.T.C. meeting at Ascot
was chiefly remarkable for the number of absentees.
The tote dividends were as unstartling as the frocks.
Miss Kiagell,'“Nimitybelle,” of your State, wearing a
blue glace, trimmed with dark navy velvet, and a black
plumy hat, was the smartest thing out. In the evening
every one went to “ The Squaw Man,” and gave Ola Jane
a rousing welcome.
The Rockhampton cricketers started a match against
our local talent the same day—but as Brisbane put up
600 odd, out of which Crouch gathered in 130, the bowling
of the visitors can be left to the imagination.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENNEHI.
Thus London Medical Press :
It is noteworthy that ours, the only Freetrade country
in the world, is the only civilised country that finds it
necessary to vote public funds to, and send round the
hat for, the purpose of providing work for the un-
employed, and to send “ out-of-works ” abroad as emi-
grants. Also, it is noteworthy that these emigrants are
sent to the most highly protected countries, where thev
obtain wages far in excess of what they would think of
asking from an English employer.
A free-born American citizen writes :
lam a commercial traveller from America. When in
Newcastle, last week, I asked at the railway station for a
sleeping-car berth to Glen Innes, and was told that if I
would deposit 10s. a telegram to reserve a berth would
be sent to Sydney. I accordingly passed up my half-
sovereign. On calling again, I was told that the' berth
was secured, and a ticket was handed to me. When I
boarded the train I.found that the alleged lower berth
which the Government of N.S. Wales had “flim-
flammed” me into paying for was simply a shake-
down on a narrow seat in an ordinary compart-
ment. I naturally made some mild objections to
being thus taken in as a simple stranger in the land, and
was told that I should count myself fortunate in having
a place to sleep in at all ; that there were a number of
persons aboard who were unable to get even such accom-
modation as I had.
“ Why, then,” asked I, “ does not the Government put
on more cars ? ”
“ There are plenty of cars,” was the reply, “ but the
Premier of the State has one of them to himself.”
“ But that must be his private car? ” suggested I.
“ No,” was the reply ; “ it is the regular sleeper.”
On further inquiry I learned that this official (I think
his name is Carruthers), with two little saived-off
attendants, had coolly monopolised a 24-berth sleeping
coach, crowding out other weary travellers, both men
and women.
At first, I was exceedingly irritated, but soon the
humor shown in this man’s colossal “ nerve ” took much
of the sting away. He surely will get on in the world, if
side and assurance count for anything.
By way of comment, I would state that if the President
of the United States, who, as the head of over 80,000,000
people, has more real executive authority than is enjoyed
by most constitutional monarchs, wished to take a similar
journey, he vvould never have presumed to crowd out a
single fellow-citizen. He would either have hired a
special coach or taken a compartment and paid for
it out of his own pocket. Coming lower down, the
Governor of New York State, a sovereignty having twice
the population and ten times the wealth cf the whole
Australian Commonwealth, rides in an ordinary sleeping-
car section, just the same as the humble citizen w'ho
writes this ; and so does every other official in our coun-
try. If they feel too good for such accommodation,
they may hire a special car for 15 first-class fares—and so
may anybody else who chooses to do so.
This American person must be a commercial
traveller. Let’s see ! The privately owned wealth
of the Commonwealth (all public wealth is left
out of the calculation) is over 1000 million
pounds. This bounding U.S. bagman professes
that New York State is worth 10,000 million
pounds, equal to over £1250 for every man,
woman and child in the State. In other words,
he bounds to the effect that his little State, repre-
senting a tenth of the population of the Union,
owns about half the wealth of all the U.S., and
that the inhabitants are, on an average, about
five times as rich as the average U.S. inhabitant.
A man who is capable of assertions like that ought
to sleep on the floor, or else run behind holding
on to the last buffer.
“Stony”: “My old pal, Peter Jones,
called in, the other evening, to see me. It was
about half-past eight, and I was by myself. Peter
had just dropped in, he said, to spend a few
minutes with me and have a short smoke. I had
recently ordered a new case of beer, which arrived
as we sat there. It was fairly muggy weather.
At 10 Peter reckoned it was time to go, but on
my pressing him to wait and have another cigar,
he sat down again and took several. We had
been talking about the ways of women in regard
to portable valuables, with special reference to
these latter days in which pockets are unknown.
It was an interesting subject, and kept us talking
for quite a time. At twelve o’clock Peter got up,
and sat down again very shuddenly —suddenly, I
mean. “Mush be goin’, Harry,” he said, with a
certain complimentary reluctance in his tone.
“Bur’ I sim’ly hate to leave y’ ! How-everf”
Then he stood up, and we had some more beer.
About two o’clock we noticed that there was a
particularly bright light coming in through the
windows. “ Bloo’n’fy-yah 1 ” said Peter, groping
at the blinds and regarding the light through the
slats. “ Lesh go ’n’ shee the fy-yah ! ” and we
galloped away out of the room together, and went
down the street. War nwe had galloped four
miles we found ourselves at the end of the corner
paddock. “Come ’long,” said Pete. “Don’
give—hup!” and kept on galloping. By that
time, however, I had had enough exercise, and
made myself very comfortable in a recumbent
position against the post at the corner of the
street. But Peter, as I last saw him, was still
prancing on towards the red, rising moon, and
crying “Fy-yah ! —hie—fy-yah !’’ in a loud, ex-
ultant whisper, with his disordered hair billowing
wildly against a brilliant sky.


11l
B
m
&
-t'iS'
>c
J
m
PD.COPJETvJ™™
XKEAVTiFVU FIGCRE •
■AND PERFECT KOU.M-
Worn t, SMART WOMEN
ELv&rywkerc
APPOI^
to His Majesty Kins Edward Vll.
Y
■>
THESE Celebrated Teas are Grown and
Packed in Ceylon in hermetically
sealed Lead Packets and Tins, thus
retaining the natural fragrance and aroma.
They are also packed in 5 & 10 lb. tins and
wooden boxes. Shipments arrive weekly
from
LIPTON’S CEYLON
PLANTATIONS DIRECT
so that Freshness may be relied upon.
Lipton’s Teas have the Largest Sale in the
World, and over 1,000.000 packets are sold
weekly in Great Britain alone. If any diffi-
culty in obtaining Lipton’s Famous Teas
from your Grocer, please write to the
Sole Agents—
Duncan Preston (Si Co.
Lombard Chambers,
107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
gtockin
<Dress
Shields
For Outdoor Costumes, a Perfect stockinet.
Anatomically Made*
Full Sizes*
u
KLEINERTS.
tt
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 1, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Lady Talbot has left a lot of little personal
effects behind her, and the Smart ones who assure
us that Stonington will see her no more are flatly
contradicted by her few intimate friends. She
has left her garden tools with a fellow-enthusiast,
together with something rather wonderful in the
matter of embroidered panels. The State
Governoress knows most there is to know about
design and stitching, and she mixed this up with
her love of music on the panels in question. She
has lines of melody running across some big green
leaves, which disport themselves on a Burne-Jones
background. Another big bit of embroidery is to
be added before October, when the three will
sally forth to the Women’s Exhibition. But this
is not convincing evidence of the industrious
lady’s intention to bring back her Talbottle to
the boredom of life in Melbourne, where of late
he might have been called Tiredbottle.
Chief Justice Madden gave a Passion-week
spread to a collection of males at Melb. Club.
Those of his guests who weren’t clever were rich,
and some of them were a little of both. Amongst
the sect which the C. J. is faintly suspected of
belonging to there is much shaking of pious heads.
Father Patsy O’Shea is at a loss to know how a
one-time good Catholic could reconcile a club
dinner, Willie Kelly, M.P., and Holy Wednes-
day with a clear conscience. But, nowadays,
Justice Madden is too successful to bother about
such trifles.
Commander Colquhoun, backed up by chief-
engineer Clarkson, started off on a devious journey
Bullward this week. He’ll go through familiar
Japan, whereof he knows many things unguessed
at by the spring tripper ; then on to England by
Canada. The jolly sailorman grew sentimental
towards his day of farewell. He was moved by
the prospect of casting off the weeds of his grass-
widowerhood, and clasping a debutante daughter
and a seafaring son to his paternal bosom. People
are mostly astonished to hear of the clean-shaven
commander as a paterfamilias.
Pretty Elsie Burston, Colonel Burston’s eldest
chick (the Burstons own a bevy of eight jolly
youngsters), is to marry a youthful doctor whom
she met in her last gad abroad. The bridesmaids
will be many, and the dainty bride deserves an
effective body-guard. She is one of the prettiest
and sprightliest of Melbourne girls, and a number
of disregarded civil and military Gussies have
been sighing like furnaces since the wedding
announcement.
Another smart bride-to-be is the daughter of
big, handsome Union Bank-manager Braund.
She is taking the divine Orossley into the family
in a roundabout way. Her husband-elect is Mr. •
Muecke, brother of the singer’s bass half. There-
fore, she will be half-sister-in-law to the divinity.
Melbourne is a very charitable place, and there
are homes for almost everything unfortunate,
down to stray cats and dogs. But the next Home
suggested is for Exhausted Committees. So many
fashionable people have been leaving that almost
everybody who didn’t leave has dropped down
practically dead through the weariness of serving
on farewell committees. And now there has set
in a sudden fashion of being a committee to
welcome back the Janet Lady, though she
has been back quite a while: so worn-out
and almost bedridden committees have risen in
all directions to offer her tea and greeting.
The final burst was given by the Social Political
Leagueites, who teaed her, and caked her, and
bunned her, and sang and played to her in exactly
the monotonous programme of every foregoing
occasion. Janet Lady took the inevitable bouquet,
and spoke the same prim little speech each time.
What else could she do ?
Miss Mitchell, under engagement to marry
your Governor’s lieutenant son, as soon as the
Lenten season closes, has just flitted, sunbeam-
fashion, through Melbourne on her way home
irom Hobart. Godmamma Williamson, who has
been helping considerably with the gathering
together of suitable frill for the ceremony, speaks
with tears in her eyes of some £2OO plunge of
lingerie that has arrived from Paris.
A warning to peroxiders ! A pretty Victorian
girl, whom all her most intimate friends knew as
golden-haired and brown-eved, began to languish.
She grew pale, and curious things happened to her
finger-nails and her skin, and the brown eyes
grew red-rimmed. A doctor diagnosed poison.
The foolish mother had bleached her child’s hair
from infancy, and had kept the practice up for 16
years, and the bleach had eaten into the system.
Poor girlie is being packed off with a nurse for
sea travel, in the hope that her health will be
restored by the time she has achieved a new crop
of hair in its natural tint. The discovery of her
hair’s true color should be interesting to the poor
invalid.
The croquet "wrestle at Windsor brought 170
carpet-lawn warriors and amazons out with their
mallets. You’ve got to be something of a Haclten-
schmidt to do anything at croquet nowadays.,
They don’t dally over the game as they did once
upon a time. After a week’s hard graft the con-
testants were reduced to the Walter Butlers,
Henderson- and Evedon (from Sydney), Mrs.
Douglas and Mrs. Dick Klingenden. The last
bout for the ladies’ singles, with Mrs. W.B. and
Mrs. Klingenden in the field, was exciting. Both
players are keen, and one of them is a proverbially
bad loser both at croquet and other things. Mrs.
Butler carried off the trophy ; and she and her
husband also did for Mrs. Klingenden and Mrs.
Douglas in the doubles. For four solid hours did
the Henderson v. Gordon game pursue its dreary
length. “ And you call this an improvement on
the old croquet!” scoffed an onlooker. The real,
scientific game sent Henderson back to Sydney
with the coveted silver bowl.
Mrs. French, sister of one of the |dames of the
Power clan, is the latest recruit to the ranks of
society dress builders.
The Pharmaceutical Society of Australasia has
been holding its jubilee in Melbourne, arid
chemists from the four corners of the Common-
wealth have seen their own faces mirrored in the
brilliantined hair of the brotherhood and sister-
hood, there being some 20 women druggists in
Victoria alone. One of the latter, who rejoices in
the possession of a husband and is president of
the Women Pharmacists’ Society, has spent 30
years among drugs and simples, and looks blithe
and bonny notwithstanding. Two of our metro-
politan hospitals boast pretty young girl dis-
pensers ; another handsome miss conducts a shop
of her own out Northcote way ; and a Hawthorn
doctor’s daughter has just opened a business
within coo-ee of pa’s patients.
The Grand Opera First Night on Saturday was
a tremendous roll-up. The dress circle was a gay
old curve. Pompous Consular Pinschof (von),
with his Wagner-Wiedermann wife and two
dainty daughters, made an imposing keystone in
the seats of the mighty front row. A very “Sweet
Nell” Nellie Stewart dimpled from a box. The
Edward Millers were near by, and big Eva
Robertson, crowned with silver laurels, made a
jolly party-hostess opposite. A dark head in the
southernmost box boasted a green parrot head-
dress, that fairly shrieked. This epidemic of
wearing the family chooks in the hair is startling.
Feather atrocities clutched the curls of half the
circle, and the touring black plumes of A small
frivolous heiress were like unto the tail of a
frivolous hearse that was standing on its head.
The Nellie Stewart entrance was a pretty thing
(albeit stagey). Just as the orchestra was tuning
up for its twenty minutes’ overture, Nellie ran
hurriedly down the steps to the door of her box,
with the folds of a pink kimona floating like
wings behind her. The whole house crashed out
a hand-clapping at the sight of her. Nellie stood
up and bowed over the pink roses piled on the
ledge of her box, and showed a dream of an ivory
and gold frock, as she smiled her cheeky chin-
tilted smile, and dimpled to the nice warm wel-
come.
Conductor Slap, had mounted his throne, and
grabbed his bacon just a second before. He
acknowledged his round of applause, but kept on
bowing in gratified amazement as the fresh storm
broke out. He bowed and bowed —and still
bowed, until a friendly hint showed him the
smiling Nellie. Then he bowed spasmodically
towards her box and collapsed.
Every German in Melbourne must have been
in the theatre—the atmosphere was weighted
down with the full flavor of the real thing in
“ Ach ” and “ Hoch.” The ecstasy was beautiful
to see. Some folk turned up because it was the
thing—some because they had a daughter in the
chorus (the chorus is full of sweet young buds in
Voiced Society). One stolid Pa and Ma sat
miserably through four hours of torture without a
gleam, until the distracted Elsa chose Girlie’s
shoulder to weep upon. Pa chirped up at once.
His beam was beatific. There was balm in Gilead
—the Primmie Donnie had leaned up agin his
daughter.
“ Lohengrin ” takes four solid hours, yet no one
realised the length, and everyone hung on for
flower-giving and speech-making. Then the
hour hit them where their suppers should have
been, and there was a rush of gleaming motors,
kebs and kerriges to Collins-street and the cafes.
Supper and opera-ravings went on till the small
hours. Here and there a belated Wagnerian
drifted home in an overcoat and borrowed tie in
the warm sunshine of next Breakfast Time.
Herold Bassett, the Murkan person who is
husband to Blanche Arral, and otherwise notable,
has been enlarging on the diva’s identity. To
Maorilanders he confides a tall yarn, with sensa-
tional trimmings and a minimum of basic in-
formation. Boiled down, it all amounts to a
statement that the swarthy Blanche is travelling
under an alias, and her reason is that, being a
great and famous artist, she objects to singing in
“ small places ” under her real noni de theatre. It
would be interesting to know if the much-travelled
hubby is also shielding a more notorious name
under an incognito. Is he the lost Austrian
archduke, for instance ?
There is a murmur that Nellie Stewart may
give a short season of “Sweet Nell” (by most
forceful request) in spite of the invalid shoulder.
King Charles Beattie is within coo-ee. Saw him
leaning over the back of Princess’s dress-circle one
recent evening. The dog is also handy; he kept
me awake the best part of last night. Nellie
trips down Collins-street in a short white
frock that hangs sheer from under the
arms —no waist —and a red, sunbonnety hat tied
under her chin with bunched cherry ribbons.
Her hair is twisted up and knotted at the nape of
the neck. Cats say they don’t understand how
she can put up with 30-button gloves if her arm
really is still bad. Then they say “Moll Roe,”
and go away with great swelling of the tail.
Clever Carrie Haase is running off to Europe
for study. She deserves success, her style is so
firm, so unaffected, so sincere, and she seems to
have curtailed her early craving for very lengthy
recitations. Above all, she has grit. Though
quite a young girl, Carrie has studied hard and
taught in the intervals, and “saved up ” for this
trip quite on her own. Teacher Nellie Veitch and
her satellites gave their friend an enthusiastic
send-off last week.
News comes from Vienna of a clever Melbourne
damsel. Rita Hope (she flitted in the beginning
of last year) is, seemingly, the first Australian
pianiste to cut a figure in the art circle of the
Austrian city, where Art is supposed to be spelt
with a larger A than in any other haunt of long-
haired genius. Visiting at high-toned houses,
she was lately introduced to a grand-daughter of
Mendelssohn, and she played some of the Master’s
concertos to the delight of his lineal descendant.
At an at-home given by a Viennese pressman, she
won the hearts of a critical audience, including a
dozen other newspaper authorities, whose united
word is law in local musical matters.
Mrs. Green and daughter Florrie have chosen
April 24 as the postponed date of their pupils’
grand annual kick-up at the Town Hall. In an
ordinary way the Green fancy-dress ball cele-
brates the Christmas break-up of the popular
academy, after which the scholars cease from
training, and Mrs. G. and Florrie are at rest for
some weeks. But it happened last December,
when the tickets had been already issued, that
the family was cast into mourning by the death
of • Mr. Green, long time bed-ridden. So the
annual revel was postponed, and Melbourne felt
particularly, sorry for the disappointment on
account of the cause of it. The ball on the 24th
inst. will have the formal patronage of the
departed Talbots, and the personal presence of
the Chief Judicial lady and the Mayoral Weedons.
The charge for admission to the balcony will be
2s. as usual, and the gate-money will go to
' charities.
Mrs. Doubleday writes from Vienna about her
talented daughter
Leila has met with kindness everywhere. She has
played to a great many leading artists, and all of them
predict a great future for her. She has definitely decided
to take up the violin as first study, and Professor Rossi, the
first teacher here, is going to take her in hand (although he
has never taken any pupils except for finishing lessons),
whilst she is studying German, &c. Mrs. Dr. Frank,
who teaches the Emperor’s grand-children, heard Leila
play the piano, and has asked to be allowed to keep her
up in that. She says of Leila that “ her talent is famous,”
so, I suppose, I ought to be content. I do hope every-
thing will go well.
Lest any weak-chested heroines of A.N.A. com-
petitions might feel tempted to fly to Vienna in
quest of similar glowing compliments, it is
advisable to state that the thermometer had
registered 20 degrees below zero only two days
before Mrs. Doubleday posted her letter. The
coldest winter in 50 years.
A person who signs himself “ Stony ” sends me
this:—
There has been a pretty considerable amount of trouble
between two youthful couples who are in the habit of
fluttering about in the fierce white light of the Melbourne
Block and the theatres. At one time the quartette used
to be thick enough for the feminine part to kiss when
they met. They stayed for some time at the same hotel;
but, one sunny morn, there were hansoms and four-
wheelers and any quantity of luggage rolling away down
the street to another guest-house. The feminine section
of the quartette had burst up the serenity of the camp
over some question of face-powder or wrinkle-cream,
and the masculine two had been most rude.
A few days later, half of the late quartette
came into a leading caf6 for afternoon tea. They were
very frilly and shiny, and felt important, and they were
late, and when they asked Percy to show them to seats,
Percy said “Yes, sir!” as though it had been the Pre-
mier, or Mr. Knight of the Pink Limbs. There were
only two seats vacant—a 4 o’clock condition which fre-
quently prevails at this particular caf6. Percy led the
pair to the empty chairs, somewhat obscuring the view
as he did so. He led them up and informed them, con-
fidentially, “Las’ two seats, sir ! ” The young ma’am and
her hubby took their places without looking at the pair
sitting opposite them ; and when they did gaze across
with their best see-nothing air, they found that the two
were the balance of the quartette, a happening which led
to a loud silence for about three minutes. After that,
until the two-in-posseSsion left, there was nothing but a
parallel of painful duologues—as to the shape of Mrs.
Blank’s hat and Mr. Dash’s taste in silk vestings, with
the men fidgeting uncomfortably as they talked, under
the gaze of a roomful of cat’s eyes as large as saucers.
There’s a girl here getting a big salary for de-
signing “Paris models.” Good old Flinders
Lane ! Customers buy the models, and think it’s
the truth they’re talking when they speak of them
afterwards as “imported.” Things are getting
better, though, in this respect. They are getting
better so suddenly, in fact, that the shop-hands
who have been reared in the decayed old condi-
tions get awful turns sometimes. A swagger
matron asked for boots at a swagger shop re-
cently. “Imported?” she queried laconically.
“ We would offer you nothing else ! ” smirked his
servility. The customer fixed the boots with her
eye, swept a glance at the politeful worm who
mistook her for an anti-Australian, and passed
like a dream from the flabbergasted radius of his
gaze.
A Collins-street tailor has a gorgeous spread of
what must be the newest in vests —velvet, in
dahlia colors, crimson, orange, and other tints.
They are so rounded that one can easily imagine
the man inside them, and dream that the outer
covering of Percy’s faithless heart will feel exactly
like a saddlebag arm-chair whilst he whispers his
usual tale of love.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide:—
Large and jovial Julian Ayers and his wife have caught
the globe-trainpling fever now, and will make all possible
speed to pack up their several tooth-brush and night-rail
and catch an early boat for Everywhere. Another Ayers
traveller of the near future will be Miss Lucy Lockett, a
bright maiden just in the debutante stage, youngest
daughter of Mrs. Harry Ayers, of East Terrace. She goes
(presumably) in search of the traditional pocket, which
was lost in the days when nursery rhymes were young-.
A Kapunda maiden, Miss Alice James, daughter of
David the King (Silver King), of Broken Hill, will bestow
her small, white paw in matrimony on April 10. She is a
charming and accomplished damsel with no affectations.
The hand which will be extended to receive hers at the
altar will be attached to the body and soul of Dr.
Deravin, who repairs the damaged inhabitants and pur-
sues the fleeing appendix in the neighborhood of Orroroo.
The Crozier-Saunders wedding is fixed for the 18th of
the Fool’s month (all the fools will have been disposed of
17 days before this event), and threatens to be quite a
large proceeding, despite the victims’ efforts to let the
Voice blow the dry leaves of autumn around in compara-
tive seclusion. Adelaide doesn’t catch a sassiety wedding
very often, but when it does it puts on its innumerable
best frock, and goes to the show with all its might.
Another Adelaide girl about to desert the much-
maligned spinster track is Miss Hannah Cohen, who,
during her father’s three-years’ mayoralty, helped to
manipulate half-a-dozen of the most gorgeous municipal
sprees ever committed here. She marries an ex-Crow-
eater, Mr. Harry Solomon, now residing in that West
which isn’t quite so golden as it was. After the ceremony
they will live in the hamlet of Greenbushes, which is
down in the deadly-remote south-west corner of Westralia,
near Manjinup, and not far from Balbarrup, and within
fairly convenient distance of Konjonup and Kendenup
and Kybelup. But whether there are wild social dissipa-
tions at these places, and the bride’s feet will ache with
the fury of the fashiona’ le dance thereabouts, I know not.
Adelaide hears stories of one of its most popular lie-
warblers who set out for London some months ago. The
nice boy sailed by a German boat. During the voyage
Kaiser Willie was thoughtless enough to go and have a
birthday, and the boat authorities made a feast of it,
and drank William’s health with fury and much wild
“Hoch.” Now, the warbler-boy is teetotal, and his
refusal to drink the champagne gave offence, and when
at last he whirled the mustard pot round his head
and offered to drink the Kaiser’s health in the
contents, he gave worse offence, and a horde
of stout persons tore themselves from their lager bier,
and said it was a deadly insult to Germany. One even
wanted to fight a duel with the Australian. For the rest
of the voyage only one person spoke to the delinquent—
a little Frenchwoman, who stood by him like a girl and a
brother. Vive la Frogge !
Society has put off the woeful trappings of Lent, has
shaken the cow cordially by its tufted tail and bade it
goodbye, and has returned from its country seclusion to
fill the Theatre Royal, where Cingalees, country girls
and other weird young persons are carousing. The comic
opera had not struck Adelaide for some centuries. Now
it is doing well and getting away with all the little girls’
savings.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
It was to be expected that the first article
to get its feet tangled in the new Victorian Pure
Food Act would be the sausage. Already quite a
wide variety of this popular but suspicious
edible, has been hauled before the Bench, and
has been fined in different amounts for not being
as respectable as it should be. The Pure Foods
Act, knowing the infirmity of the sausage, has
dealt rather leniently with it, and allows two and
one-tenth grains of preservative in the pound ;
and any sausage requiring more than that amount
of chemical is rightly adjudged to be quite
beyond repair.
Recently the Victorian Government con-
signed to Agent-General Taverner samples of
wines, preserved fruit, etc., for display at London
Grocers’ Exhibition. On its arrival in the great
Freetrade country the stuff was fallen upon by
the Customs authorities, who presented Taverner
with their little bill for £56 17s. duty. Taverner
parted under protest, and pointed out that he
wasn’t in the grocery line himself ; that the
nourishment was his State’s property, and wasn’t
meant for sale, and only came to “ strengthen the
silken bonds,” etc. Then Taverner and the
Treasury proceeded to argue the affair per letter,
and meantime the Customs hung around and kept
a cold, hawk-like eye on the “imports,” suspecting
seemingly that Taverner might dispose of them
through the back gate, like a Sunday-trading
publican. After four months’ argument the
Treasury decided that the goods were “free,”
and told Taverner he could have his cash back.
Of course, the affair having happened in “Free-
trade ” Britain, it didn’t violently excite the Aus-
tralian Tory press, but had anything of the sort
oecured in Protectionist Australia—!!!


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GrO TO HJbJLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
331- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTGASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and ohio. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
“Pot Still”: Seeing that D.C.L. is the
brand so strongly recommended as an aid to
mental achievement, have been wondering if some
respected Aboriginaliars have been allowing their
imaginations to operate unregulated by tna_
benign whisky. No aspirant after accuracy ot
observation should indulge freely in any whisky
but D.C.L., otherwise his snake stories are likely
to take the wildest form.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/-
istheacmeofcomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne. .
POLITICAL
POINTS
»♦♦*♦♦♦♦♦
“ Under the Federal Yoke ” was the title
of a recent Sydney E. News leader. Well, thank
heaven, that is better than being under the
importers’ yoke, as in the bad old days.
The effort to combine the partially dead
party and the partially alive party in N.S.W.
politics still continues, and it is expected that a
Waddelluthers Ministry will be formed in good
time for the elections. Then the leaders will go
to the country as two daddocks that lean as one,
and will fry tlie east wind in the same frying-pan.
Premier Jacky Evans, of Tasmania, did a
characteristically ignorant thing when he invited
Admiral Fawkes (in charge of the Australian
station) to a Ministerial dinner, and then talked
Australian naval politics, and denounced the pro-
posed establishmeut of an Australian navy.
Jacky hasn’t anything to do with the establish-
ment of an Australian navy, and Admiral Fawkes
shouldn’t be asked to talk about it; so things
were awkward all round.
Apparently one of the pretty ideas in the
new N.S. Wales Local Government Act has sug-
gested things to the Victorian shire councillors ;
anyway, those sturdy beggars now enthusiastically
support a pi’oposal that the State should maintain
all main roads. The idea that meets with most
approval is that, “ in order to prevent centralisa-
tion,” the State should find the money and the
shires spend it. It is a joyous idea, but much too
modest. The State should also be asked to do
any fencing that land-owners may require along-
side the roads.
“ C.” writes :
Seems to me that too much importance is sometimes
attached to Labor Conventions. These gatherings meet
periodically to build platforms and dictate to Labor
electors. They are formed of “delegates” from the
various district organisations, and are alleged to speak
for the great body of Democratic voters. Do they ?
Take the recent Labor Convention held at Rockhampton
(Q.). It consisted of 42 delegates, the majority of whom
were nominated by from 10 to 30 members of the
W.P.O’s., and most of whom paid their own fares and
expenses to pose as Labor leadei-s, and establish a
claim to run for Parliament. They paid their own
expenses simply because they couldn’t help themselves —
their organisations not having enough funds to give them
a free train ride. The Rockhampton Convention was a
farce in every way, being bossed from the jump by those
wily wire-pullers, Mat Reid and Albert Hinchcliffe,
neither of whom can get within cooee of a seat in the
Assembly.
A-DEEP ON THE SLEEP.
The Tariff Commission was, at the outset, designed to
kill time, and has perfectly answered the intentions of
its designers.—AGE.
TARIFF COMMISSION : “O golly! Here's Aus-
tralia at the door singing out for the rest of
the reports. What shall we do?”
CHAIRMAN : “ Let's promise them faithfully for the
year 2007, and then have our sleep out.”
How characteristic ! Acting-Prime Minis-
ter John Forrest asked the States to give him
information as to their resources for Deakin’s use
in London. N.S. Wales and Queensland re-
fused !!! One of the things that makes The
Bulletin a bit suspicious of William Kidston is
that he follows the soured Joseph’s lead in anti-
Federation.
At the conference of shire presidents held
in Sydney last week to talk about the new Local
Government Act and see the Show and the races,
it was unanimously decided that the State should
pay the shires all the second half-yearly endow-
ment in advance. If it didn’t, do that, it was
explained, they would have to get the rates in
from the landowners before they made roads, &c.
Good old independent and self-reliant ‘ ‘ backbone
of the country ! ”
His Honor is a mighty weak reed to lean
upon on occasions. An employee of a Syd-
ney firm, who gave evidence before the
Arbitration Court in a recent dispute, was
promptly dismissed, and the attention of his
Honor was drawn to the matter. Then his Honor
(Judge Heydon) made two serious statements.
First, if the man had been dismissed solely be-
cause he gave evidence, his Honor did not con-
sider that the employers had taken a proper
course. Second, his Honor did not wish to
comment further on the matter. Considering
that the case seemed to present all the possible
elements of a gross contempt of court, his Honor
could hardly have been less satisfactory if his
Honor had been a yard of pump water.
Bill Lyne began to get in his say at London
Navigation Conference early, and his say was
straight :
He felt bound to state that due regard must be paid to
the difference in the conditions in Australia, where the
rate of payment to seamen was much higher than in
Britain.... Australia had an extensive coast-line, and
asked that British vessels trading on the coast should
accept local conditions. ... The Maoriland Act contained
nearly all that the Commonwealth was asking for. The
British Act also went a considerable way, though not so
far as Australia hoped and intended to g 0... . Australia
was especially determined regarding the subject of wages,
the employment of colored seamen, and the general condi-
tion of seamen. The Commonwealth Government had
prepared a Bill based on the report of the Royal Commis-
sion, and Australia was not likely to be satisfied with
thing less than the Bill.
Evidently Australia’s own William is ,at that
Conferees on business.
The S.M. Herald lately gave space to
one “ Importer ” to say how bad were Australian-
made clothing matei'ials, and how wonderfully
good was the imported English article. This
Stinking Fish person spoke at some length, and
yet left off without once coming near the real
aspect of the case. When Australia is dotted all
over with mills, making up pure woollen materials
from our own wool, the great danger is that they
will deal with the tailor-person direct, and then
the useless middleman, who calls himself an im-
porter or warehouseman, will have to go and do
some useful work for a living. At present there
are generally three persons between the wool and
the suit of clothes—the English maker, the big
importer, and the tailor. When the mill is at the
tailor’s door, who will require that useless and
costly shark, the importer ?
George Black, ex-M.L.A., supplied a
valuable suggestion, last week, in the. S.M.
Herald. State Premier Carruthers, in his
anxiety to be a nasty small boy towards the
Commonwealth, declines to let the Federal
Meteorological Department buy the observatory
site; rather than let Australia have it, he pro-
poses to give it to the English authorities, so that
they may build a mint on the finest location in
Sydney. G. Black’s impassioned appeal to Joe
to be really and thoroughly disagreeable when he
is on the job, and to put the abattoirs on the
observatory site, is the best bit of advice Joseph
has received for a long while. Also, G. Black
says lie is going to study high explosives, and
hints that he may put them under J. Carruthers
when he has really learned the business.
Not long ago’the representative of one of
the biggest Anglo-Australian
mining corporations visited the
Rand, and after inspecting the
Chow-infested workings of the two
biggest mines ascertained that the
cost of labor wsis 265. a ton. This
started him thinking; he commu-
nicated with his fellow-syndicators,
and, after much calculation, they
concluded that they could carry out
the work by the more efficient
labor of white men at about 19s. a
ton. The upshot was that the cor-
poration offered to take up the
working of one of the big mines on
contract at 20s. a ton. “With
white labor?” asked the head of
the Rand mine suspiciously.
“Yes,” was the reply. “ Then we
won’t touch it.” The astounded
Australian demanded an explana-
tion why the co. should refuse the
opportunity of doubling its huge
profits. The manager shrugged
his shoulders. “ Political
reasons,” he remarked, and added
with a smile, “ There are more
ways of making money than out of
dividends, you know.”
The Englishman, the leading
Indian paper, sympathises fully
with Australia’s objection to
Asiatic immigration :
When the spurious benevolence which has been
preached to our colonies is presented to us for home
consumption, our national stomach will turn at it. The
only reason why the British public has hitherto con-
trived to digest such small foreign invasions as have
entered its universities and other seats of learning on the
one hand, or the Hebrew and Lascar settlements
in Houndsditch and Blackwall on the other, is that these
intrusions into its social system have been on too in-
finitesimal a scale to effect any material change in it. It
is a matter of supreme imperial and national importance
that our colonies, which have become outlying limbs of
a vast Empire, should continue to be morally and poli-
tically homogeneous with their parent stock living at
the heart of the Empire. It is the wildest hallucination
to imagine that any such homogeneity can possibly be
preserved if we permit our British colonies to be flooded
and swamped by Asiatic immigrants, Indian or others,
whose lower standard of living and whose notoriously
insanitary methods of life are serious menaces to the well
being of our colonises.
People up North are trying to remember
how many times Albert Hinchcliffe, the Socialism-
in-our-time leader of the Anti-Kidston Labor-
ites, has attacked the Leg. Council since he has
been a member of it. The abolition of the Leg.
Council is the first step towards any big reform up
North, and Hinchcliffe’s chance of getting his
dreamy objective adopted is just nil while the
Council is on hand. Yet Hinchcliffe doesn’t
attack the Council worth tuppence. It can’t
surely he that Hinchcliffe is afraid that if he
abolished the Leg. Council he would also politically
abolish Hinchcliffe.
CHEAP AND MORAL.
At the same-time, he believed that no one should obtain an old age pension who had not endeavored to put
by something, no matter how little, as a provision for future years.— Vic. Minister Swinburne.
Minister Swinburne (to applicant for pension, who has no property qualification): “ No,
my good man, it would be a thoroughly unthrifty proceeding to assist you when we
have a good moral reason for getting out of it. Let this be a lesson to you in
future years to develop the noble virtue of thrift.”
“ J.P.” writes :
Brisbane Week, which is an amusing cuss of.a paper
with a bee in its hat about the alleged wholesale robbery
of Queensland’s Federal surplus by N.S.W. and Victoria,
lately came out with a shocking row to the effect that
N.S.W. had fraudulently got away with no less than
£15,000,000 of Queensland’s legal “ splosh.” This, it
held, was the natural result of Federation. As the
Commonwealth is only six years old, this seems to mean
that Queensland has been bustled out of a steady average
of £2,500,000 a year, and at that rate it seems that
Queensland’s revenue, despite the abolition of border
customs and the transfer of the postal and telegraph
receipts to the Commonwealth, ought properly to have
jumped up from £4,500,000 in 1900 to £7,000,000 a year
since. Why this should have been, and how the State
was robbed of £2,500,000 a year without noticing the
absence of that trifle, the amazing Week doesn’t say.
The ragged army of secesh has again raised
its banner—the tattered banner with holes in it
that goats could be shied through—in Sydney
Telegraph and Evening News, and is pounding
away at the old lie that the Constitution declares
the Australian capital must be somewhere “about
100 miles from Sydney.” The great mistake the
draggled secesh host made in this matter lies in
the fact that it didn’t invent this lie earlier. The
See Government’s inspector looked at suitable
sites, and presumably looked at the Constitution,
and then deliberately recommended a site 296
miles from Sydney; The Carruthers Government
looked at the Constitution, and then deliberately
offered, among others, a site 311 miles from
Sydney. And why these things were done, if the
Constitution says, as Secesh alleges, that the
capital must be about 100 miles from Sydney, will
never be known till the Jabberwock rises from its
grave on the Last Day.
“ Quan ” : Though the real question is not
what Kidston’s chances are, but what they
deserve to be, it seems to me the best answer to
the first, and some sort of answer to the second, can
be got by observing how many “ Liberals ” have
followed Denham over to Philp. The Liberal
party consisted of 16 members. In addition to
Bell, Blair, and O’Sullivan, who are Ministers,
and therefore certain to be Kidstonites, Grayson,
O’Keeffe, Barton, Bridges, Herbertson, Rankin,
Hawthorne, and Macintosh have already an-
nounced that they will run as supporters of
Kidston ; while Plunkett, the Independent mem-
ber for Albert, who voted as often against Kid-
ston as for him, is this time a Kidstonite.
“ Caber ” lately said —“ Labor has lost Burrum.”
But the Philpites haven’t captured it. Burrum
is represented by Rankin, one of the old Liberals
mentioned above as having become a Kidston
supporter.
“ Snell ” : When Minister Swinburne said,
for the edification of a fat and thrifty audience,—
I am strongly of opinion that no one.should receive an
old age pension who has not at some time tried to put by
something, however little, for future years,
did he have in tnind the necessity of making
special provision for those unfortunates who
“ tried to put by something, ” and saw it swallowed
up in the ruins of the boom ? How would Swin-
burne frame his “strong opinion” into law?
What means could he possibly have of judging
whether old people had tried at some time or
another to “ put by something”? Those are most
deserving of sympathy who tried and failed—
failed probably because it costs too much to. raise
a big family in Australia for a workman to pile up
a bank deposit while so engaged. Plainly, this
little-minded Minister really means that only
those veterans who have had savings in banks
and other financial concerns are worthy of con-
sideration. The miserable meanness of this idea
should be sufficient to damn Mr. Swinburne as a
politician.
Apropos the old, anti-Sosh gibe at the
“ Government stroke.” On March 7, every car of
the Brighton-St. Kilda (Vic.) electric tram line
was burned ; nothing was left but badly-damaged
under-works. No cars of similar gauge could be
borrowed, and a good deal of material had to be
imported before new ones could be built. But the
railway chiefs slipped over to Sydney, borrowed
a dozen ears, transferred the bodies and electric
accoutrements to the steel frames, renovated in
the Newport workshops, and resumed the service
in full on March 17 —just 10 days after a disaster
that looked like laying the line idle for 10 weeks.
The Vic. A.N.A. made the usual ass of
itself at the yearly conference. While the ques-
tion of more population was under discussion,
Laborite “Jack” Lemmon sought to get a reso-
lution through, affirming the desirability of secur-
ing a genuine system of land settlement, in order
to give present and prospective population a
chance of a decent living. Lemmon quoted a
few striking figures regarding Vic. land mono-
poly ; also, he proposed a remedy—a graduated
land-tax. Then the conference sniffed round the
proposal, and chased it off the premises. Yet
the A.N.A. kids itself that is has “ great national
ideals.”
According to Clarke and Esplen, of the
new mail syndicate, an Australian navy would
necessitate repairing dockyards at Brisbane,
Sydney, Melbourne and Port Adelaide with, for
added safety, extra ones at Bunbury (W.A.)and
Townsville (Q.), “as it would be quite impossible
to bring ships round from Perth, or even Adelaide,
for repair in Melbourne or Sydney dockyards,
especially in time of war.” And then there is the
equally urgent need for docks at Port Darwin.
The “vast expense” of such an undertaking is
now put forward by the Fat Tired Party as a
reason why the local navy project should be
dropped. But, on the contrary, supposing
such work is necessary, it’s only another
reason why the Australian naval policy,
dockyards included, should he pushed forward
harder than ever. On the showing ot
the above experts, our hired navy has only to
meet the first division of the enemy off the VV.A.
or N. Queensland coasts, gain victory with serious
damage, and then rust through inability, to react
a repairing station, while the enemy s second
division, or a couple of ships even, ravage the
coast at their leisure. Accepting the. Llarke-
Esplen opinion as a hypothesis, the British naval
authorities are either ignorant of our perilous
situation, or, as is more than suspected, have no
intention of letting their ships be hereabouts
when the guns begin to baric in earnest. In either
case, Australia can’t begin to look after its own
safety too soon.


I
A Fine
Violin
£1 :11 : 6
me “STUDENT'S”
MODEL.
Complete witH Bow*
Case* Resin and Set
of Extra Strings.
Post Free to any
town in N.S.W.
£1 :11 : 6.
Write for Handsome
illustrated catalogue
post free.
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.*
SYDNEY.
Music
Stools at
Paling’s.
Substantially made of.
Brass, with patent screw,
brass rim round seat, and
rod back. Every part
rivetted Handsome
plush upholstered seats
in a variety of colors.
Price £2 25., packed free.
An adjunct to any draw-
ingf-room.
*****
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
(Please take lift 3rd floor.)
Banjos
at
Paling’s
We hold J
the largest ,
stock of
Banjos
in Australia.
Best American make at
very low prices.
All Strings and Fittings
stocked.
Catalogues are yours
for the asking.
Paling’s,
338 George St.,
SYDNEY.
SV
i-jdr'
P 4
't
H
t h
ft
ER
2**ol*
MA/y
PA WATER)
5& flat SPi»m6»
JWj
LANDS
. C>U( t
Qt"*
SffrC
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
44 I give you 4 KOOMAH
SPA'! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It’s name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
“Yours and
is THE WHISKY of the DAY.
The DEMAND for it is POSITIVELY
PHENOMENAL. Pure, Wholesome, of
agreeable Aroma, and gratifying to the
Palate, it is a Perfect Tonic Stimulant.
Always Call for “YOURS (SL MINE.”
Beck’s
Kaiser Lager
has won THE ONLY GOLD MEDAL
at the New Zealand Exhibition. .
Eight, Stimulating', and Refreshing. Absolutely
Pure, of GUARANTEED EXCEEDENCE, and un-
questionably THE MOST POPUEAR EAGER ON
THE MARKET.
SOEE AGENTS :
LOHMANN (Sl CO.,
7-9 Bridge St., Sydney.
Representative for N. S. Wales - JOHN RANKIN


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR. SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class 0. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents: Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without ttie Signature of Scrutob & Co. on each Bottle.
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Imposters:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
POORNESS OF BLOOD.
Poorness.of blood is the natural result of indi-
gestion. When the food is not properly digested
and assimilated, the nutritious properties pass out
of the system without benefiting the bodv or re-
plenishing the veins with new blood. Constipation
and disorders of the various organs tend to poison
the blood, and Nature simply exercises herpreroga
tive by throwing off the impurities through erup-
tions in the skin.
Miss Nellie Elliott, of “Hampton House
Ann-street, Brisbane, who suffered from habitual
weakness, feelings of exhaustion, eruptions in the
skin, impaired digestion, and chronic constipa-
tion, and who is now strong and well, and
regular in every way, at-
tributes her recovery to
health to the wonderful
curative and corrective pro-
perties of Dr. Morse’s In-
dian Boot Pills. She says :
“Having suffered much
distress and irritation
through eruptions in the
skin, caused by poorness of
blood and systemic dis-
orders, which medicines
failed to rectify, I was in-
duced by a friend to give
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills a trial. After a few
doses I found much relief,
and by continuing the use of your remedy I hair
entirely overcome my weakness. Ido not suffei
from indigestion or constipation now, and tee
eruptions in the skin have entirely disappeared.
I now feel well and strong again, and have nc
hesitation in recommending your pills to those
who suffer from any disorders of the blood c
rregularity of the system. ’
Miss Nellie Ei.liott.
(From a photo.)
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST.,
REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first day of the A. J.C. campaign is said to
have ended somewhat in favor of the punters, but Monday
found the ring looking as cheerful as of yore, and its
feminine belongings sat in the grand-stand as heavily
jewelled as usual. So apparently it was not a knock-
down blow.
The First Hurdle Race saw no less than nine
out of 19 scratched, and the public straightway placed
its hopes and its coin on the Victorian horse Skiboat 3 to
1. Christian Moses began to reduce the figure. A large
section yelled loudly for Superstition, and got 5 to 1, and
then someone caused a flutter by working a huge com-
mission on South Head, which temporarily demoralised
the ring, and got it flustered. At the five furlong pole
Skibo dashed through, and left Superstition several
lengths behind. But Superstition drew up, and they
raced along nose and tail. On the back stretch Skino
again drew away and made great pace. But it was fatal,
the gelding hadn’t the stamina to lead the field
home, and he cracked right up. After that there was
nothing in it but Superstition, and he won easily.
4* * tc *
Not a single scratching was recorded in the
Doncaster Handicap, and an enormous field of 31 lined
up at the post. With such a field running against him,
the punter naturally got better prices, 7 to 1 being laid
against the favorites, VVandin and North Head. Istria,
Artful and Melodrama were available at 10 to 1 against.
It took a lot of skilful handling to get the line
dressed at the post, and ihe start was anything
but a good one. Out of the ruck soared Barran-
joey, Istria and Melodrama, and the field streamed out
behind them like the tail of a kite. Istria led the way,
but was cut down at the six furlongs by Haloya, who,
. with Lord Merv, led the crowd round the front. Istria
came again, and with a series of wild bounds went right
to the front, with Melodrama in close pursuit. At the
half distance VVandin came streaking through and caught
Melodrama, raced alongside him, and beat him by a neck,
but could get no closer than a length and a-half to Istria.
* * * *
The St. Leger was a duel between Poseidon
and Oakton, no others starting. The betting was 25 to
1 “ on ” Poseidon. In this sort of race Christian Moses is
seen at his best. Oakton went away, and for nine fur-
longs led by a length. Then the sea-god went to the
front, leaving a gap of four lengths between them.
Oakton came at him several times, but had never a hope,
and the hero won easily by a couple of lengths.
* * * *
Easter Monday found a crowd of 30,000 people,
most of them well dressed, out to watch the richest of
N.S.W. races—the Sydney Cup. There were eleven
starters, the top-weight being Dividend, who humped
9st. 51b. Then came Blue Spec, with 8st. 71b. Proceed
was favorite, and the ring offered 3 to 1 against him.
Next in demand was Realm, at 7 to 2, with Dividend
going strong at 4 to 1. Dyed Garments and VVandin were
also much fancied at 5 and 6 to 1 respectively. Realm was
among the bunch that got away first, and favorite Proceed
was absolutely the last to leave. For over a mile Stream
and Vanadium led the way, and then Dyed Garments out
them down. Proceed was driving-them all home. Dyed
Garments streaked into the straight, with Wandin and
Realm coining fast, and Proceed tar behind, coming
faster still. The totally unexpected outsider Florance,.
who had kept Proceed company in the rear, main-
tained the intimacy, and came raging through
the field with him in a startling manner. Then
Realm cut down Dyed Garments, and left Wandin
lengths behind. McLachlan-hurled Proceed along at a.
tremendous pace, and Florance flew behind him. Realm
was being urged for all he was worth. The tremendous
pace of Proceed made it a matter of distance, and the
distance wasn’t there, so Realm won by two lengths from
Proceed, with Florance, two more lengths away, third.
The time, 3min. 29sec., has only been beaten twice in the
history of the race—first in 1902, when Wakeful did it in.
3min. 28sec., and in 1905, when Tartan cut if out in 3min„
27sec. Last year, Noreen took half a second longer.
* ‘ * * *
For the second richest plum of the second day,;
the Champagne Stakes, 10 came out. The Owl and
Maltine staggered under 101 b. penalties. The public
went wild on The Owl and Lady Rylstone ; still the
majority of the horses seemed to have a considerable fol-
lowing. The Owl started at 2 to 1 against, and Lady
Rylstone was at threes. The Owl was not blind on this
occasion, and was away like a flash. For half-a-mile he
made a killing pace, but nevertheless Maltine drew along-
side him, and Lady Rylstone lav three lengths away, letting
them break the atmosphere. Into the straight dashed The
Owl, drawing away from Maltine, with Lady Rylstone
and Oboe only two lengths away, and going strong. At
the St. Leger the Lady was within one length, and creep-
ing closer. The weight began to tell, the Lady increased
her speed, and the poor Owl was cut down just half-a-
dozen- strides from home, and beaten by a neck. The-
time, lmin. 14fsec., has been eclipsed several times.
Although the betting shops have joined Nineveh
and Tyre, the horsey men of Sydney still congregate
along Pitt-street, in the vicinity of the old stand. The
Law has a dark suspicion that they are there on business
conn oted with betting, but, in the absence of proof, it
comes at them on a charge of loitering. Loitering seems
a hard thing-to prove, judging by the fact that, out of
11 cases brought recently by the police, not one con-
viction was secured. In the case of one offender, the
police testified that he took good cure not to allow them,
to get near him ; in fact, he fled over the face of the city
at a rate that the cop, loaded up with gloves and dignity',,
could not approach in any way'; “ And you call that loiter-
ing!” said the magistrate, scornfully, as he jerked the case:
out of court. And yet, as a matter of fact, the police are
quite right. These rotters are an insufferable nuisance,,
walking up and down, standing in the middle of the
street, blocking- up the whole fairway with their loud
check suits, and inflicting awful injury on the atmosphere
with their infernal jargon. The haunts of the perambu-
lating bookies can be recognised at sight by the damp
state of the pavement, for the itinerant layer of surrepti-
tious odds never troubles to walk to the kerb to expec-
torate, and the part of the town where he congregates is
sadly in need of disinfecting. The uniformed policeman
has no chance of getting a conviction. What is required
is a service of unknown men in plain clothes. Then the
law might be enforced.
* * * *
Crack equestrienne Mrs. Elliott found a rival
worthy of her skill at Sydney Show this year, when Mrs..
Stace, on Mr. Tarlington’s Skylark, flew jump for jump-
with the former lady (Mrs. Elliot was mounted on Mr.
Judd’s veteran juniper Desmond) till 6ft. 3in. had been
cleared. Then the ladies agreed to divide the stakes. This,
establishes a new Australian ladies’ record; the old one:
was 6ft. 2in.,,put up by Mrs. Elliott atAlbury last year.
As far as writer knows there are no records of high,
jumps done by' equestriennes in other parts of the
world, so it is impossible to sa,y if this is a world’s,
record for a lady or not. For the President’s
Special High Jump seven horses competed, among them
being animals from both the Wirth and Eroni circuses.
Circus horses are at a disadvantage when jumping in a.
show-ground. They are out of their environment, and
it is very like calling upon a man accustomed to swim in
an enclosed bath to race in the open sea. Judd's Ormond
and Tarlington’s Skylark declined 6ft. 4in. ; and Wirth
Bros.’ Lady Morton shied at 6ft. sin., although under
canvas the same mare cleared, with inches to spare, 7ft.
OJin. at Christchurch. Eroni’s Mahonga, Judd’s Des-
mond, and Chittick’s Euchre all cleared 6ft. sin.
without signs of distress, and then the bar was
raised to 6ft. lOin. for the last grand test. Desmond had
cleared 6ft. 9in. on Good Friday. Mahonga, at the
second attempt, got over, but knocked the bar down with
his front feet. Next time he went through it. Euchre
touched it, first with his fore feet ; second, with all his
feet; third, with the whole of himself. Then Desmond
tried it. First, he climbed over it, knocking the top bar
off in the performance ; then he ambled up in a devil-
may-care fashion, and suddenly soared over it. It was a
great jump, but not a record by a jugful. Sydney Tele-
oraph made a holy show of itself by talking about the
Sydney record. Why not the Moore Park record? On
October 15, 1903, Moral, Strathmore, and Newhaven all
cleared 6ft. llin. at Bendigo (Vic.), and All Fours cleared
the same jump at- West Maitland (N.S.W.) Show on
April 7, 1905. Rattler cleared 6ft. IQfin. at Singleton
(N.S.W.) Show in August, 1902. These items make the
talk of the Sydney record somewhat puerile.
* * * *
This is the doldrums of the sporting world.
Grade cricket is suspended, football has not started, sail-
ing is off, and hurling is still with the things of to-mor-
row. Even the professional cyclist is shaking the dust
of Australia from his feet and scooting to the U.S. to pick
up fresh iniquity and dollars.
* * * •
The automobile clubs of Queensland, N.S.W.,
Victoria, and S. Australia having notified their intention
of boosting the enterprise, the Dunlop Rubber Co. is
now circularising the “trade” with regard to the pro-
posed reliability race from Brisbane to Adelaide. The
co. has also deposited £lOO of the £7OO considered
necessary' to run the race on the lines laid down by' Jen-
kins, the man who waved his hand and said “Do the
thing properly.” If the clubs are willing, the “ trade ”
ought to be enthusiastic, for a big entry will mean quite
a boom in business afterwards. The distance is, roughly,
1850 miles, and the damages that are liable to strike
the cars before that space is traversed should mean a
small fortune to someone in repairs and new cars. If the
“ trade ” knows its business, it will rise en masse and
send along its subscriptions. When the money has been
put up, the Dunlop Co. will send forth the trusty James
in the old De Dion to spy out the nakedness of the land,
and the bad spots thereof. James has probably more
knowledge of the bad spots in Australian roads than any
other man alive. He has been in every mudhole between
the South Australian border and Sydney, and that is say*
ing a lot. By the time this trip is over, even his large
knowledge of mudholes will have been increased some-
what.
* * * *
Cyclists Lannie and Warren, who started from
Perth (VV.A.) on February 5 to break Donald McKay’s
.record from Perth to Sydney, are already out of the
running. On March 14 they had only reached Balladonia,
half-way between Kalgoorlie and Port Augusta, having
encountered heavy rains on very heavy tracks. So
Donald McKay’s 40 days for 3050 miles is like to endure a
little longer. At Balladonia the Perth boys were joined
by Frank Birtles, and the three left together. Before re-
suming their journey the Westralians wired that they
would try to establish new time from Adelaide to Sydney.
* * * ■*
The Dunlop Rubber Co. has fixed upon Satur-
day, September 28, as the date of the Warrnambool-
Melbourne road race. The League of Victorian Wheelmen
has to give its sanction, but as there is no doubt the
necessary permit will be forthcoming, the date can be
taken for granted.
* * * *
In the motor-boat world things are deadly dull.
The Sydney gentleman who was to have astonished the
fishes with a hydro-plane has abandoned the idea. Hydro-
planes are notsuitable for Port Jackson, and would be
confined to the upper reaches of the Parramatta ; down
on the rougher Waters of the Harbor they would capsize.
So till someone with money to burn in experiments
has developed a style of plane more suitable for general
use, the Sydney man will lie low, and the ancient jigger
that he proposed to transform into a 22-miler will con-
tinue to plod round at about four miles per hour. Another
Sydney man has an idea for a non-vibratory boat, and
hopes by next season to have the thing afloat. If he can
achieve it, and the idea can be applied to vessels o‘f all
.sizes, it will probably bring him a fortune. For torpedo
boats it would be invaluable.
* * * *
There’s one charming feature about the N.S.W.
Association of Crook Cyclists : it doesn’t take anything
lying down. This characteristic of the Ass, is responsible
for the unusual spectacle of the Sydney Telegraph and The
Bulletin being in one boat. The representatives of both
these papers have to pay when they go to see the night
■cycling. The Bulletin did it from the first—it is hard to
be the guest of an association, anti then come home
and call it names. The Telegraph didn’t, and that was
how it fell in slightly. The Association opened the war
hy ceasing to advertise in the ’Graph —which was an emi-
nently sensible thing to do if the Ass. thinks it can do with-
out the advt. The next proceeding was to stop the paper’s
representative at the gate, and demand paymmt—w hich
was-a fool of a thing to do. Even the parsimonious D.T.
wouldn’t feel hurt over the cost of admission, and the
•discourtesy was a cheap and unsatisfactory sprt of revenge.
* * * *
Said that there is trouble among the N.S.W.
professional runners, and some legal warfare that
promises to tear the Association to pieces is being
threatened. The Athletic Association is said to have had
an awful row to hoe, for the professional ped. seems
to beat everything else that runs, for iniquity and devious
ways.
* * * *
The 16ft. sailing championship of N.S.W.
brought out 21 starters on Saturday last, but shortly
after the start fhe wind died so thoroughly dead that the
fixture was abandoned, and the becalmed boats began to
devise methods for getting home. They were dotted all
over the harbor, from Fort Denison to Steele Point. A
little while after the event had been officially abandoned
there was a stir in the air, a sudden cool puff, and then
the dust-laden southerly swept over the face of the water
and turned the serene mirror of the afternoon into a
wilderness of white foam-caps.
* » * V *
Melbourne’s naicest are “parting’’ freely for
their favorite golf. The Caulfield Club, ousted from its
links by the advancing jerry-builder, talks of spending
.£6OOO on a ground that will beat all others in Australia.
It has already bought over 100 acres near Oakleigh, with
the late James McCulloch’s home to keep the whisky in.
The block is T-shaped, and the club wants a market
garden to complete the square ; but the owner stands out
for a boom price, and the club’s language is scorching all
the cabbages.
* * » *
Jim Donald, the boss oarsman of the Albert
Park Rowing Club(Melb.), has a very substantial record
dating from 1899 to t’other Saturday, when he scored his
70th win, including 42 eights, 21 fours, five pairs, and one
double sculls. He has stroked some half-dozen inter-State
crews, and is booked to occupy the stroke position in the
next Victorian crew. In compiling his big list of wins,
Jim has only' sat behind on three occasions. He was
born at Ballarat on December 1, 1871, stands 6ft., and
weighs 12st.
* * • *
A paragraph in the sporting column (B. 21/3/’O7)
in regard to the death of Dr. A. D. Kearney might be
taken to mean that he ha i Such hard luck in later life as
to be forced into a hospital in his last illness. That im-
pression would be quite incorrect. The bad luck of Dr.
Kearney' to which reference was made was in the illness
which cut short a brilliant career.
• ■* * •
There was trouble among the Sydney bowlers
last week. The Pennant Committee having fixed the
dates for the matches refused to reconsider any of them.
In the meantime the championships meeting came along
and clashed with the date of the match between Waverley
and Chatswood Clubs. If Waverley beat Ohatswood, which
was mighty improbable. City would be Pennant winner.
If Chatswood beat Waverley, which was more than likely,
that club and City would have to play again, and, if
Chatswood won, they would have to play off for the
championship. So, in order not to upset the champion-
ship meeting, Waverley gave Chatswood a forfeit, and
next week Chatswood rubbed City’s nose in the dust, so
now the Pennant is in danger. City feels very sore
about it.
» ■• * *
In the bowling championships of Australasia
competition, which took place in Sydney last week, Vic-
toria scooped all the honors with one exception.
Stephens, of Victoria, is now champion of the continent
and the isles and ocean's adjacent thereto. Harris, of the
City Club (Sydney), is runner-up, and the next two men
are Victorians—Crawley, of Collingwood, and Edgar, of
Kew.
» * *
“B.B.”: N.S.W. Cricket Association is in a
cold sweat to alter the Sydney first-grade premiership by
dropping one of the old clubs and substituting the Peter-
sham second-grade team. All this haste isn’t warranted
on the season’s “ form.” The Association begins wrongly
in the matter. As a means to improve cricket,
a more commendable step would be to add the
Petersham Club to the list of first-graders, the odd
team to be sent to the country each week to appease
the yelp for a city XI. to give the game a bump. The
trouble with the N.S.W. Cricket Association is that it
hates to encourage cricket away from Sydney’s doorstep
—in fact, it is the old provincialism which believes
N.S.W. to be a suburb of Sydney.
* * * •
There’s trouble with umpires in Sydney
first-grade cricket. The N.S.W. Cricket Association,
under the plea of poverty and unfinancial condition,
has had the value of the much-abused umpires’ services
for nought during the season; but the trouble
is that there are not sufficient cricketing patriots
who care to waste time and also pay all travelling
and out-of-pocket exes. The umpires are bucking there-
fore, at the time when the premiership is at a very heated
stage—just when a not-over-honest person can make or
win a game for “ a consideration." The Sydney fi r «
grade cricket should be kept above suspicion and the
proper way is for the Association to pay the men who are
doing the donkey-work. Otherwise departures from the
straight path are not to be wondered at
* * * *
“Snell”: An interesting problem for hair
specialists ! Why are so many pugilists bald or rapidh
tending to baldness? In the ring at a recent Melbourne
scrap one pug, though still under 30, was quite bald • hit
opponent, a lad of 24 or so, sported a very thin thatch
and the latter’s brother—still young, and a pug too-wa-
a wholly bald spectacle in a corner of the enclosure \
couple of other pros, directly or indirectly concerned
showed hairless tops. William Squires is very seantilv
supplied with thatch, an I could rattle off the name-
of a score of Australian pugs “ who’ve got no hair on the
top of their heads in the place where the wool ought ir
grow-ow-ow,” as the old hymn hath it. Why is this? I,
it the training? 'ls it the strenuousness of the game? l-
it the nerve wear and tear ? Certainly pugs are bald in a
far greater proportion than any other class of the com-
munity, not excepting the city clerks who sit on high
stools and singe their pates against the burning zone on
the gas bracket.
* * » «
At Jack Wren’s Pavilion, the new name for
the G.volorama, Charley Frost, of Sydney, and Charley
Griffin, of Maoriland, met on Monday, March 25, to box
20 rounds for a £lOO purse provided by the promoter.
Frost is so far a veteran that the wear and tear of many
fistic contentions have worn all the hair off his head, but
Griffin is a mere beginner, and as yet knows and shov-
little of scientific methods. But he has youth, strength,
and a large appetite for punches. A whole host of Frost's
blows got on to Griffin’s countenance before the fight
finished. In fact, for seven rounds the elder Charley was
punching the younger Charles monotonously on the nose
with a straight left, but Griffin won for all that. He is a
scrapping whirlwind, and literally bullocked all the vim
out of his bald opponent in the eighth round, although
Frost appeared to have him anyhow in the seventh.
Griffin is called the Pocket Squires, and he is certainly
hard and game, and has a punch that would shake a tram
car, but there is little of his wildness in William Squires.
Griffin wades in, trusting that a fair proportion of his
slathering punches will get home, and if his foe isn’t
hammered out he’s worried out.
* * * *
“Homo”: The shutting-down of the Colling-
wood (Vic.) tote reminds me of the time when the Law
raided it, some .years ago, and held possession for a week
or two. Everything had been in readiness to meet such
a contingency, and next day the tote was in full swing
again, with only' a wooden partition separating the pro-
fessional law-flouters from the police garrison (two
strong). This valiant and intelligent force could distinctly
hear such items as “Wan and wan Bumblefoot for the
Welter ; two and wan Sudden Jerk for the last” amid the
babel of sounds on the other side of the wall. However,
owing to the excellent catering of some person or persons
unknown, the garrison did its duty without fear or
malice, and it didn’t feel lonely 7, as every beat in the
district seemed to converge on the tote for the time. It
was good to see the fatigued holders of the fortress, when
relieved, unsteadily plodding homeward with a radiant
countenance shining redly under each helmet, and there
was keen competition among the Collingwood Johns for
tote duty 7 while it lasted. Its time was (alas!) all too
short, and some of the police hadn’t even got a smell of
the whisky and good victuals before the Law gave up
the siege as a bad job.
Acting-Prime Minister Forrest got a,taste
of his early-dav exploration experiences after the
recent banquet to Pharez Phillips, at Warrack-
nabeal, on the fringe of the Victorian Mallee
country. The feast wasn’t over till midnight, and
Big John wanted to reach Melbourne next day.
That meant a 35-mile drive through the darkness
to Murtoa, where the Adelaide-to-Melbourne
express passed at 3.30 a.m. So he hoisted himself
with two friends into a stout but ancient Mallee
vehicle, and the casual youth of a driver urged his
horses along some of the worst of Bent’s roads,
with the knowledge that there was no time to
dodge stumps and ruts. Between stumps the
casual driver regaled the Acting-Prime Minister
with original observations about the comet and
the South Pole, but Forrest was too busy holding
on to worry much about comets. If an extra large
stump got in the way he knew that his collision
with the earth would be more disastrous to him
than the arrival of all the comets in the universe.
The youngster pulled through, five minutesahrad
of time, without disaster, and Big John got him-
self away to town, sore hut thankful.
“ Melb.” : An excursion to Mintaro was a
gratifying experience. Mintaro is a really superb
estate of 273 acres, about 37 miles north of Mel-
bourne. It was bought by the Methodist Church
three years ago, as a Rescue Home for Girls
•first offenders against the law. Twenty-seven are
there now, looking both healthy and happy. The
Government pays 10s. a week for each, a con-
siderable saving on their keep in gaol, with all
the advantage of a reformatory that is truly such.
I never saw a charitable place with such an
elimination of humbug. The idea came from a
great soul, Pastor Bickford.
THE “ALSO STARTED.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the hard-fought race is over, and the uproar has
subsided,
And ten thousand eyes are straining, as they bring the
winner back ;
And the prize is his for keeping', apd the glory un-
divided :
In a line the beaten horses follow slowly down the trkek.
They are wet with hard endeavor, and their foam-
splashed flanks are dripping,
And the sun no longer glances from the glossy satin-
skin,
And the blood is showing freely from the long spurs’
cruel ripping.
In the eager, anxious striving of a race they could not
win.
All the dash and fire have left them, and they stumble
broken-hearted
Through the crowd that greets the victor, in the pride
of place displayed ;
Just the sporting scribe alludes to them as ones that
“ also started,”
But seldom even mentions what a gallant run they made.
So in life’s contested skurr.V, where the hand of Fate has
weighted
With a harsh, uneven measure, there the light weights
make the pace ;
And applause awaits their efforts from a shouting crowd
elated,
While the overburdened triers are defeated for a place.
When we gather at the settling we forget the broken-
hearted,
While the winners in our blindness in a brimming cup we
toast ;
But the best and bravest often are just those who “also
started.”
They are winners, though they never bring the colors
past the post.
N.s.w.
GAN. T. HAR.


Britisb=Australasian
T*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. BCANTLEBURY.
EXPERT OPINION
, ON MIRACULUM
The Dunlop Rubber Co
of Australasia Ltd.
February 19th., 1907,
The Secretary,
Mlraoulua Co,, U e 1 o o u rn««
Dear 81r,
1 have thoroughly and severely tested the
sample of Miraculum supplied, and find it Is
perfect as a puncture atop, closing large holes
(made with a Knife and file handle) immediately
vlth the loss of almost no air,
am convinced that Mlraoulua is quite harm-
leae to rubber, rather helping to preserve It.
1 also found that the sample stood unchanged,
• heat of 200° F., which temperature is not
likely to be reached in a travelling Motor Tube.
Miraculum is easily washed -off with water,
and It does not lift patches which have bean
properly applied
fours faithfully.
Chemist to Dunlop Ruhherqrmr
MIRACULUM
is recognised by Cyclists and
Motorists as a Sure Puncture
Stop. All dealers, or at the charging depots :
MELBOURNE—266 Latrobe St.,
SYDNEY—ISB Castlereagh Street.
Bicycles, 4/- (posted, with injector tin, Vic. and
N.S. W. 5/3, other States 5/8). Motor Oars from 30/-
Do we Believe in Australia?
Bather ! We are getting ready for the Japs.
YYTANTED Australian Capital and Investors for three
” fair-sized Silver-Lead Shows. Total area, 29 Acres.
Bulk samples (3 lots) Cockle Creek :
| ton. ltonl7cwt. and 1 ton 16 cwt.
Gave Lead .. 66% Silver 75 oz.
62% ~ 54 oz.
65% „ 57 oz.
Strong gossan outcrop, traceable over a mile. Favor-
ably commented on by Weinberg of Chillagoe, Country,
slate diorite. Galena at surface. Max. width of crop,
25ft. B. S. HUNGEBFORD, Silvermine Creek, near
Finnigan’s, via Pentland, N.Q.
HAVE YOU HAD
THE LIST OF
NEW RECORDS
for this month ? Do you remember to buy new
records for your
Edison Phonograph
regularly ?
Have you forgotten how you liked the records
you now have when you first got them, and do you
notice how entertaining they are to your guests who
hear them for the first time ?
Then bear in mind that every new record renews
your interest in your phonograph.
But be sure you get the Genuine Edison Gold-
Moulded Records. Each one bears the signature of
“ Thomas A. Edison,” the famous inventor, and there
are no others that have the same fine qualities.
Ask us for the latest lists. Post free on request.
THE NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO.
OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne,
Telephone No. 10hS.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Hm.
Public and
Private Ball
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
Barney Allen.
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
p
m
tfk
THE GOLDEN KING
Address—
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
I guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
intending investors are
invited to consult me
before doing business
elsewhere.
I do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
Bankers
Victoria and Royal Banks.
Telegraph, or write for all Sporting
Information. Sufficient Address.
Barney Allen,
MELBOURNE.
RUGELMANN’vS
©
£
m
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid.”
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Died at Beckenham, Kent (England), on
March 29, Ebenezer Way, late senior partner of
E. Way and Co., of Pitt-street, Sydney, aged
72 years. Over 40 years ago the business
was founded in one 3mall shop, No. 263, by Mrs.
Way, milliner. In 1870 Ebenezer’s name ap-
peared on the shop-board. About the same spot
Mrs. Nash opened a millinery business, and a
year or so later the historic William (“Bill”)
Nash had his name on the board. Also in King-
street, 80 years ago, Mrs. Hordern, milliner and
bonnet-maker, flourished, to give way presently
to “ Anthony Hordern, draper, &c.” And so on in
a number of instances.
Maoriland Cooks’ and Waiters’ Union is in
a quandary. Quite recently, two of Wellington’s
crack hotels replaced white chefs with Yellow
Misery, and, when the union pointed out
that its members were legally entitled to a
preference, the heathens applied for ad-
mission to .he union. Now the union, which
is legally bound to admit any competent non-
unionist upon payment of the necessary fee,
is considering the matter. The affair is likely to
cause considerable trouble, for the Chow is in-
creasing rapidly in Wellington, where he has
collared the vegetable, laundry and fruit-selling
businesses, and lots of people whose livelihoods
have not yet been attacked are considering the
advisability of agitating for an increase in the
poll-tax. And when “the business people” get
seriously alarmed they always manage to make a
fearsome uproar if they do nothing else.
Henry Alfred Lenehan, gazetted last week
N.S.W. Government Astronomer, is the seventh
to hold that position since the State took over
full control of the institution. There was an
observatory at Dawes Point, Sydney, in the early
days, but the work done amounted to little
beyond determining the longitude of the settle-
ment. An observatory was next started by
Governor Brisbane, in Parramatta Park, but
although the British Government sent out a
couple of scientists it point blank refused to pay
for instruments or buildings. Brisbane paid most
of these latter expenses out of his own pocket.
Runker and Dunlop were theastronomers under this
arrangement, and on the retirement of the latter
the place was shut up, never to reopen. When
Responsible Government was established, a fully
equipped and endowed State observatory was
determined on, but it took some years to realise
the idea. Parson W. Scott was selected in England
as first Government Astronomer. He chose the
site of the present observatory, supervised the
building, purchased instruments, and gathered up
whatever scientific ruins he found useful at Dawes
Point or in Parramatta Park. Ross came next,
then Smalley, and then Russell.
The late Profit Dowie knew the disguise
value of hair. In more than one sermon he ad-
vised all men to stick to their beards, and not let
Delilah make them shave. If ’Lije hadn’t hidden
his sins behind long, flowing whiskers he would
probably have been bowled out years earlier than
he was.
SB
S
a
m
IN
1888
2?
MADE CYCLING
TO-DAY
POSSIBLE.
ensure;
COMFORT, RELIABILITY
and Pleasurable Cycling
to hundreds of thousands
of Australian Cyclists.
ROADSTER TYRES GUARANTEED
12 MONTHS.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
NONE GENUINE WITHOUT
TRADE MARK.
THIB
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
All States and N.Z.
■ j- : '
\\\\\


TRUTH in ADVERTISING.
COMPARE THE GOODS
with what we say about them. Truth in ad-
vertising is the rule, not the exception. The
largest jewellery establishment in Australasia
could never afford to make any claim it could
not substantiate.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
With it shopping by mail can be done at
your eas9. Write for our Shopping Guide.
It’s freely yours for the asking. All goods
sent carriage free to any address in Austral-
asia. Satisfactory mail service guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8s 6d,
10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d,
20s, 255, 80s.
“Nurses’ ” LEVER, 255.
AU Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
PENDANT, Bet pearls
and turquoise, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-et Gold Floral Spray and Bow NECKLET, set with fine white pearls, £4.
Complete in Silk-lined Case.
Other styles, £3, £4 10s, £5 10s, £6 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £6O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Heart
Mizpah CHARM, 5s 6d.
Larger, 6s 6d, 7fl 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Gold Half-
hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled patent adjust-
ed balance, £4 10s.
Extra quality, £5 10s, £6.
£7 10s, £8 10s, £lO,
£l2 10s, £1".
All Guaranteed.
JL SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Star PEN-
DANT or BROOCH, set
pearls and turquoises, £3
6s. Diamond Centre, £7
10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold-mounted New Zealand Green-
stone 2-bar Motto BROOCH, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3. All
Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUHDERS.
18-ct. Gold, pure
double-cut Diamonds
and Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5.
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-.
SOLID
GOLD
Ladies’ High-grade Solid Silver
Hunting Keyless WATCHES, 255, 80s,
40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
£3 £3 10s, £4, £5 10s,
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set
fine white pearls, £2 ss.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold M >
quese RING, set t-i-
-monds and rubies or
sapphires, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cross-
over RING, set pure
white double-cut dia-
monds, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold PENDANT,
set pearls and turquoise,
355. Others £2, £2 10s,
£3, £3'los.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Fine Opals,
and Diamonds, £4.
Larger diamonds, £4 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Trefoil
RING, set pure white
double-cut diamonds.
£l2 10s.
ENGAGEMENT
RINGS..
These illustrations reveal some of the very-
newest ideas in Engagement Bings. They dis-
play to the fullest degree the fineness of work-
manship and beauty of design.
Our Illustrated Catalogue and Ring-size Card
will be sent post free on application.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Cluster
RING, set pure double-
cut diamonds and
•übies or sapphires,
£8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Half-hoop
RING, set pure
double-cut diamonds
and emeralds. £lO.
£2
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and
Rubies
or
Sapphires, £2.
£2
£3
r A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3.
All Diamonds, £5.
£5
£lO
SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold _
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £lO.
Emerald Centre
£l2 10s.
£l2/10
£B/10
lB-ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
a
or Sapphires £8 10s.
All Diamonds £l2 10s.
£l2/10
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BROOCH set Pearls,
Opals, and Rubies, 21s.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £4 10s.
Three Diamonds, £5 10s.
Keyless
Level?,
20/-.
Extra
Quality,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Niclrel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, strong
and reliable, 10s, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s. Extrs
Quality, 255. The “Guard,” 15s. Specially
recommended. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold, set
pure Pearls, 7s 6<L
Other Styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d. 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Circle
BROOCH, set pearls
and turquoise, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
-ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hand-made WEDDING RINGS and KEEPERS,
9-ct. Gold, Is 6d, 10s, 12s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, Heavier, 20s. 18-ct. Gold, 20s,
30s, 40s, 60s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and Rubies, 20s.
Extra Mounted, 255.
o*o}
<3l
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, diamond or ruby
set Heart, 355.
A Neat Design.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set pure double-
cut diamond, £2, £2 10s, £3.
Price to Size of Diamond.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Pin,
Chain, and
Bean Charm,
3s fid.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BROOCH,
set pearls and sap-
phires or turquoise,
£4 10s.
4 Diamonds, £8 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval LINKS,
22s 6d.
15-ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved free
of charge.
A. SAUNDERS
15-ct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
set fine white pearls, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
!■ 16-ct. Gold BRACELET, set pure double-cut diamonds
«nd rubies or sapphires, with safety chain,
£22 10s.
SOLID
SILVER,
J 62.
SOLID
GOLD,
X7/10s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled, £2, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s,
£4, £5, £6, £7. Gold-cased, £4 4s,
6s, £6 6s. Solid Gold, £7 10s, £8 10s.
£io, £l2 10s, £l5, £2O, £25, to
Guaranteed for 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller,
Silversmith and Optician,
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813,815,817 George-st.,
Opposite New
Railway Station,
SIDNEY, N.S.W.


,v
—-
im i m
mmm
m
■
KSMt#
..
feS 4£g ..
4r . a. '
■ ;
■
<•€
'
■
■
s *s■* * ' - :-■• .! '■/ • ;
v.; ■■,, ■: ••< -.• ■•
.f-
MsSii
Iet»WV,V-; •.;.. ‘ f
finw
■
I
. ■
4
• ■ -
•- :
Mi
S 1
\
»
■
? V
.
'*
% * * * * * .
. * * * • .
to
R
V
€«
mem*
s A
«. I —l-1. j
t/ ../
-
——hMh—«-~
~
.. 1 I !
i
'■ASr.i
m
BC
mm
<
& VI
■v . • v'„ <.*»
. |,v
mm
=*e*
i | :
* *!
* >.*s •%: 7 :v. % n? S?|
jag
TO?
j- f r*in.?.? rjjj tjjt v rrx *&
■ u ‘i ; . s
jj§3 ; j
:,;■ V
■;
' •’ <nv ->
'mm
■
_
-
WiM
.
■
■
» Mj ... i % > • ■-• , ■
«r s
■
•Um >*l*4*
mmm
K*i r'j.v.J
Hlsi
KM3BNNM
-
“Do you object to
“ Not at all, if. it’s
Cig'arette.”
smoking', Madam?”
a THREE CASTLES


Amusements.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of the Picturesque and Romantic
Melodrama,
ROBIN HOOD.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as ROBIN HOOD,
SATURDAY NEXT—RAFFLES, the Amateur Cracksman.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub-Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
CRITERION
Lessee ..
Carlton Wallace’s Romantic Domestic Drama,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
THEATRE,
pALACE
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY
LAST NIGHTS OF
SYDNEY.
COMPANY,
MRS. GORRINGE’S NECKLACE.
SATURDAY APRIL 6th—For 6 Nights Only—
DR. WAKE’S PATIENT.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sale at White Rose.
YAWING to the crowded houses and wonderful enthusiasm
displayed at the Jessie Maclachlan Concerts Mr.
Frederic Shipman wishes to announce an extended
season.
JESSIE MACLACHLAN,
will appear at the
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
during the entire Easter week, assisted by
MR. DOUGLAS YOUNG, Tenor.
MR. JOHN M‘LINDEN, ’Cellist.
and
MR. ROBERT BUCHANAN, Pianist.
There will be a complete change of programme nightly.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., and Is.
6s. and 3s. Seats Reserved at Paling’s.
FREDERIC SHIPMAN,"Manager.
LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
T HE
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty,” and
THE BRESCIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Matinees Every Wednesday
Every Evening, at 8.
and Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
WIRTH BROTHERS’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES —Wednesdays and Saturdays.
SATURDAY NEXT—Entire Change of Programme.
PRICES—4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Children Half-price except to
Gallery. Plans at Paling’s and Circus office.
Doors open 7, commence 8. Carriages 10.45.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson
Adults, 6d. | ADMISSION | Children, 3d.
CLOSING WEEKS OF PRESENT SEASON.
PROGRAMME OF NOVELTIES AND SENSATIONS.
SOMETHING DURING EVERY MINUTE.
Special engagement of DAVID BILLINGTON, the
World’s Champion Swimmer. Exhibitions of Swim-
ming and Diving Afternoon and Evening.
FUN AND FLIGHT DEVICES UNENDING.
QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES.
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE, supported by
a high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
Rockhampton—March 30 to April 7. Mt. Morgan—
April Bto 11. Charters Towers —April 15 to 29.
Townsville—May 2 to 7.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
Miss IDA INGERSOLE. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
KING and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
LITTLE EILEEN O’NEILL. HARRY SADLER.
FRED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist.
Mr. WILL LOCHRANE. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
MISS FANNY POWERS. THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Mischief.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator.
SIGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing
and Monkeys.
CASSIE WALMER, Song and Dance Artist.
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Dogs
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45 sharp.
A MEMORABLE AND BRILLIANT EVENT,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE in the Great Romantic Symbolic
Mystery Play, entitled,
PARSIFAL.
Miss BRUNE as KUNDRY.
Mr. THOS. KINGSTON as PARSIFAL.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
N
EW THEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE.
BLAND HOLT.
GREAT CROWDS NIGHTLY WELCOME THE
Re-appearance of BLAND HOLT and his
Dramatic Favorites in the Romantic Military Drama,
REVENGE.
3 es—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies’ & The Grand.
IVE ACRES COVERED WITH THE
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
“DB/EAMLAN D,”
ST KILDA.
PEN DAILY 2 TO 11 P.M. ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
The Modern Entertainer!
MARK
dtooru
TRADE
m
phonoM
OVER 20,000 RECORDS,
1/-, 1/3, 1/6, and 1/9 Each.
CATALOGS OP INSTRUMENTS
AND RECORDS FREE.
It makes Happy Homes —keeps
the Men Folks at home, and
DRIVES DULL CARE AWAY!
WE are wholesalers for EDISON
PHONOGRAPHS—have the
largest stock, and employ
expert mechanics to overhaul every
machine as it comes from America to
ensure its perfect working.
The Edison Gem, £2 10s
The Edison Standard, £5
The Edison Home, £7los
OSBORN & JERPAN, Ltd.
My
Opticians,"
IMPORTERS OF PHONOGRAPHS
—IWi! RECORDS,
393 George St.
FACING
BOYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
THE SECOND SUBDIVISIONAL
The Section includes 32 Choice Dairy and
Agricultural Farms from 72 to 3M Acres.
AUCTION SALE (6000 Acres) OF
THE mum ESTATE
20,000
ACRES
OK THE FASSIFERN RAILWAY, 46 MILES
IFROM BRISBANE, Q’LAND, WILL TAKE
PLACE AT HARRISYILLE, AT 2 P.M. OH
SATURDAY, June Ist
NEXT.
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES*.
The Cressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk Factory (1J
miles away) pays 53. per gallon for milk.
RAINFALL—36.66 inches; average for 18 years.
I lose to Market and Railway Station.
Settlers oan visit Brisbane and return same day.
No Survey Fees or Residential Conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material, and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land—Ridges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, level roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks.
The Normanby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and large lucerne fattening paddocks,
and has been used for many years past as a
“ Topping” Run for fat stock travelling to Bris-
bane markets.
LIBERAL TERMS
One-tenth Cash;
Balance in Ten
Annual Payments
at 5 per cent.
PLANS AND PARTICULARS FROM
ISLES, LOVE & CO
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
N.B.—Conveyance meets train every morning.
•3
A
Thinker’s
Thoughts
A thinker’s brain wears away in proportion as
it is used, and this waste roust be rebuilt by food
(there’s no other way) else the brain grows dull
and is a poor instrument.
In Grape-Nuts food all the elements required
for this brain building are found in the most
liberal proportions, the parts of grains that supply
the Phosphate of Potash to join with Albumen
being especially selected in making
Grape-
Nuts
food, and trial 10 days will show any brain-weary
or nervous wreck a great improvement.
“ There’s a Reason,”
As trial proves.
Get the little book, “The Road to Wellville,”
in pkgs.
A School Teacher
Taught a Good Food Lesson*
It is a strain on nerves and patience for a
teacher, not only to curb the antics of forty or
fifty youngsters six to eight hours each day, but
also to instil into their minds a mass of knowledge
including the famous three tt’s.
A teacher, living in Taunton, England, writes
of the benefit she derived from Grape-Nuts food
after the exhausting work in the schoolroom had
almost ruined her health. She says :
“When I first began taking Grape-Nut3 food,
I was a teacher worn out in body and mind, and
used to suffer very much from brain fag.
“ I was also a martyr to indigestion.
“It is now plain that I lacked the power to
digest and get value from my food.
“ I felt much better after the first package, and
by the time I had eaten three or four packages I
was a new creature.
“ My brain became clearer, and the powers of
concentration much greater. I gained steadily
in weight, my flesh becoming hard and firm.
The sense of continual weariness vanished like
magic, and I have not had a bad attack of indi-
gestion since I first used Grape-Nuts.
“I have become so fond of the food that I look
forward to my plate of Grape-Nuts with a little
cream more than to the most costly dishes.”
“There’s a reason.” Name given by Postum
Co., Battle Creek, Mich.
Have YOU Growled?
Haven’t you “ growled ” at the time it takes you to shave ?
Try a PLUM RAZOR and you’ll be surprised how
quickly you will get over it. There’s no pulling and no
scraping with a PLUM—nothing but satisfaction, and
you get over the “ground” in marvellously quick time.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Unversal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
THE PLUM RAZOR. Price, 10/6
Post Free Anywhere.
Missing: Friends.
WILL the Sydney Solicitor who advertised
for ELIZABETH SAVAGE recently,
please communicate with
MRS. WHITELY,
Echuca, VICTORIA.
IE this should meet the eve of PATRICK
KEOUGH, native of Tenterfield, N.S.W.,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please write
to his brother,
JAMES KEOUGH,
COOLGARRA,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Legal Notice.
JN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 183 of 1906.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE
Between
JAMES KENNEDY MENARY
Plaintiff
And
JESSIE MARIA MENARY
Defendant
And
HARRY SCHMIDT
Co-defendant
To JESSIE MARIA MENARY of Woonibyein the State
of Queensland wife of James Kennedy Mi nary and
HARRY SCHMIDT of the same place Tinsmith.
TAKE NOTICE that James Kennedy Menary of Woom.
bye in the State of Queensland Farmer has commenced
an action against you Jessie Maria Menary and you Harry
Schmidt in His Majesty’s Supreme Court of Queensland
by petition bearing date the eighth day of December 1906
praying for a decree that his marriage with you Jessie
Maria Menary be dissolved and by Writ of Summons
dated the seventeenth day of December 1906 which Writ
is endorsed as follows “ The plaintiff’s claim is for a dis-
solution of his marriage with the defendant Jessie Maria
Menary.” AND TAKE NOTICE that by an order dated
the twenty-second day of March 1907 it was ordered that
the publication by advertisement in this form of the said
Petition and Writ and of the said Order twice in tho
Chronicle newspaper published at Nambour in the State
of Queensland and twice in The Bulletin newspaper pub-
lished at Sydney in the State of New South Wales shall
be deemed good and sufficient service of the said Petition
and Writ upon you. AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that in default of you and each of you causing an appear-
ance to be entered for you and each of you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane within thirty days after
the last of such advertisements the Plaintiff may by leave
of the Court or a Judge proceed in the said action and
judgment may be given in your absence. AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that you and each of you are required
within twenty-one days after the time limited for your
appearance to file in the said Court your defence to the
Plaintiff’s Petition in this action which is so served upon
you.
Dated this twenty-seventh day of March 1907.
BERGIN & BERGIN
Solicitors for Plaintiff
Victoria Chambers Queen-street
Brisbane.
Public Notice.
AN APOLOGY.
20th March, 1907.
Dear Madam, —
I hereby desire to express my regret that I
should have inadvertently reflected upon you in
any way whatever with reference to your having
travelled in the same steamer with the Sultan of
Jahore.
I disclaim all intention of reflecting on your
reputation in any way, and I unreservedly apolo-
gise for any statements I have made reflecting on
your reputation, and I desire that this retraction
and apology be published.
Yours truly,
JAS. C. BARTLETT,
Spring Street, Port Melbourne.
Mbs. S. A. Serebrenikow,
Formerly Miss Queenie Strachan.
Witness —
J. Woolf, Solicitor,
Melbourne.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR OEDEES WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE EETUENS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STEEET SYDNEY.
MONEY to LEND
—ON—
PASTORAL LANDS
At Lowest
Kates.
ALEX. JOBSON, A.I.A.
Public Accountant, Equitable Buildings, Sydney.
PAT
NTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. X
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES,
A comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick,
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 100 coin and
card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail Trick, The Wizard
Fish (gives the definition of your character), the Joker’s
Love Bond (a good catch), One Sheet of Yankee Comic
Caricatures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to any
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
XH. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket.
New York Novelty Co., 710 George St., Sydney.
■them
DEAF
By using the Wilson Com-
mon Sense Ear Drums.
Perfectly invisible and
comfortable. If you are
deaf or suffer from dis-
I tressing head noises write
I for full particulars. Thou-
sands have found this the
first step to relief after 30
or 40 years’ suffering. Ad-
dress—Star Novelty Co.,
229-231 Collins-st., Melb.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.


WHAT does your ice cost you?
K€ MACHINE
IS A MONEY-SAVER.
THE loss of perishable goods in the sultry Summer
Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result; but this
would be unpracticable on accountof its expense. Itcosts
very little with a BRUNSWICK—J-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
Agents, BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7*9 Market St., Sydney.
Post as 10/6 for Capillarine
Send us a Postal Note or Money Order for a Pot of
Capillarine. • Use this famous preparation accord-
ing to directions, and you will be gratified at
the results. It will grow a flowing moustache.
ON THE AUSTRALIAN MARKET 20 YEARS.
CRAIG AND AITKEN,
654 George-St., Sydney.
Makes you look manly
yffTer
Before
10/6 Post Free.
The Moustache
Q rower.
The Moustache
Grower.
The Moustache
Grower.
The Moustaohe
Grower.
The Moustache
Grower.
When you are Buying a TalKing Machine
looK for the words
COLUMBIA
G R A P H-O-PHONE
on it. Then you know you are getting
THE BEST.
COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONES entertain
Millions of People in Every Language and in
Every Country in the World
WE INVITE YOUR ENQUIRY.
Dept* B, Columbia Phonograph Co.
Gen'l,
255 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
PT Largest Talking Machine Manufacturers in the World,
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is. Packet of TEN, IQd
K%a*aJL (\t\\Vs, -k> ‘Yftrvn wu-.
9'Ymn.evx -xO/lxt-C 'io/mc -jjvm. oii pwitA G\ A-Re Vonfld- CXlrtnU' .
.xoßeApien. -xA- -unit .do qo-od. sovvtt 5 ovvtt ooq aR*M one. axxl>-,e<A' Ao ■
.OwoL evaK M Ulf2(V>ie. MilxL ammoi ARenn.. foAßen/o a«aw tReX,"
One. 6 .onnxn.q otx»- on. AReox Jocco, evne*. -urßeAßcn. 0
.n.xexmvn\en.d. <UoJLa«,e.. dßen. ARene. one. q,ixeatqrtv> njßeAßen. <\)aA£w,e.\un/X/t«aii*i
/vwt Ranm fl/viw' on-, "-Roxo Ox rendencxl Ao imW<t Raxn- Q~n«r on—
dßein. <in. |<xeA', ao n\<xnM one. Afte tyixeeAwnxo A-RaAr*3 Ax*vnA' Anxo
Ao -be. AoXen. CV3 Ox pen/s-oncd. ov>e. -on cvwjaO«tx to ARxm. 0 cwvx /x>nxAxn.q a>
/wxq acq- cxxxd Rcxoe ox mxovnfetd Cj bellow CxU. downd -mt aa 3 donxte...
rtovO, (xnal- c \!aJLcM ) e -d ox 5KvR C Wl|xUx-ARtn. cx 6*<xn . dJA-bn. Rwa
ox -ynx,rxxcxd. nnniben. 8] mu3M*fw,O 3 "' pon.eo) ARmoxxq R noßxctx a> tin-ecxlKe/>. CJReaA.
aywxoiA- -tc KepA'xxn. ptMeeA'orxdtn., on. ox q<nrd. A>5 nnpoQAixfdt- . xXjap
/vn«n.o£q Aodt'e/a ARe dinA'. “yaid^e, A&e -&*in. qcrto jun Aden., O-A -
AoemtAKcxfw AnUo -tRe /G-Rx, potxeo cxxxex Ononr!. otxA- ARe dint' AUat; Cierq* «»eox a£t,xu/Ux|.
2d -Raa Ao do aßxo -be|o/xe A> cewv A-wxprwroe dRe. -fcennpeidcxovx. “Data/vie. *o ARe-n.
Rxvwqndq /xxxerfeol -m bq H Re Aax>M pon-M, mOM)U«Rw ARe. , OexCC q toeo A>
AXcxdxcwxA- ac-p-neva ond. bqxxxKv pTecuOM eoenM b&nwvlx aA) Caxostd- bq OA<W
_xjLt.-£ecU!AR, dome b*!ino qM-S-vmptx,, ertßtn/o-to7wnAs;«,e. MJp cm.a Annoyed- -jotwix.
trtPuno-Atvix covid. cux )rvnvx Amnt rttawrn-.ond ajii. Ao -6e oxooxded. tW. amed
Ajo aU ooxme 5 ddq AfitU' 6<*A' o, %AAaxoA.
0\ MaJLoont. an, ox & «rwvp etdxonx xo |o«)d A^e.-^CA Q ioA. -teqno
jjr Rao, A-tem Aoood -itv«n <nxe t\ Ao tRe of Ren.. 3to stxOo aWqS
dßt AJOavxC -urovnonx -uAt A> A/omc. cUAen. /Vwvxe_. A«eq d» <Xx«H
AReq txturtxx|s /ku<e dxxfxfxex) e\ < ')od(Vt,e. xO-xtR. ARemn.. ftq t*)«H tvnOxC.
3 -qtA- xvoetvJ 5| oovKxßq ovrxe, to nxw-U' tß«n>x axxppdxoo.
Rooit'/vneuL, -)o"- xnAt-cxvxce-, 9 qoA--€eAt<xO -Imnn. .S-cxvoo, -AumcUrvx, 9(mv, himq, rWAnvj
CWLOX -feoComAro. &/vie Ca-dx,. ARe «1 -toe^AAßxtdA'^xl -xv,Owo
xAonxtw -Invovn^ /saMt> _ A,eAtox A-Roon ARe -beat- /SAtW-fwd-
-aKe. -ooxvx -Oux( ARtne, oxvtd-cxaAOo -)on. Ren- on-den- Ao -6e eoce-tutea. ext- once,.
So-Mewoec, trvuwf -6c CWqonA-cw -3 CWn A> Ao fee., tmxxd-RA-trvjt . 'hvxe aA-
/vkA -xt- .xxnxCd, /nxoxi, -be Axoed -qeod aqt Arq aRc flexme • J
of,.Tn..t xjxig. RfajLo/he rntMOCXj*. tXIX -wm 'VaAanie, CtneA. -xjct-yvA (nx
do MOC -U- 3 Axixtf, do oa tmxxcU. 4 o/x, >foun. qood. cx«
-xA- Otoea ton- ajU. -xoßo AAde -xt*. tmo-vH trlßen. -iaAvR. joodo, a^K.
-n<A- -waXe Rcxjt qnouT. JRe rtocb one. qnoAAnxA)Re<d -bq dptexad qeevncxo aA-
■Pxoxxe -yio -eownecuon ao-xAR aRc /Wxvx yio/xw. covAOnv* oM oexxtelx,
no AxxtaAexnee. aRcXAnw,Ra- p>xnvvrtc -vRc q,WiR crl RaxAX. AA-dxotxA, nx,
W oxxxd aRx Vtxxxo ffl tvßowooneto tfj -unem en. njßo nne -unnxtd -U C«o enxd
Rexox, oxnd m -ao. n)xtx q“Uadaqc ex Anxad
{nnek, /> ox nnanAJetto-vS nn. Ccmvfidtnoxoi^.
xjmx con. -It' Jrurvn meanAq -6RenW- )on 3/t CUX*. COM* c |j<on. • fen. -x\
ienx tndoAC pvlce aoxAR, 3 added (qx^OJAadC. 3
aexxd -A<nx ex yon.. evnq Conxp€enexoix Anoudtx. o( (MM l<wid. xonxAe.
do nvx. 3-Juvn««nx,» <-eAt<n. onqotM. °nnd cxeXoxoe x,mx W e^enorme.
/d-. 3 -xo-xxx nA eAxandC-nmx. jonqd Ao xOnxAx_.
evtaMv-vU) a/w/vI cvw.
2-/ if Sa S^C^XnyuAAsJ U.->


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
•‘THE CHILDRENS FOOD."
Macaulay’s Maorilander hasn’t yet sketched
Wellington’s tomb in a ruined St. Paul’s, but at
all events one of his ancestors will shortly plough
up Napoleon’s temporary sepulchre. The British
Government has borrowed Maonland’s chief ex-
pert, C. J. Fulton, to teach the St. Helena people
how to cultivate M.L. flax, and prepare the fibre
for market.
“ C.W.R.” writes :
Your correspondent, “Caber” (B. 7/3/’O3), is a false
prophet and an antediluvian ass. When he talks about
Kidston being ejected when Parliament meets, and
“Janny” Leahy and Robert Philp taking control of the
elections, he taiks offal. Parliament will not meet again
until after the elections. “ Caber ” contends that
Kidston must go down, and trots out the late defeat of
Dr. Culpin at Brisbane North, “Jimmy” Wilkinson at
Moreton, and Labor at Charters Towers, as proof that the
electors want another whirling turn of Philp and Co. Rot!
Culpin slipped into the Australian Parliament through a
schism in the Boodle ranks in 1903, and no one who
knows the constituency thought he had a goat’s chance
in a straight fight between Labor and Fat. Even Charles
Lilley couldn’t wrench the Brisbane North State seat from
Abdomen. It is represented hv Meat now, and probably
always will elect Flesh as its member. And Wilkinson, who
won two contests as a Deakinite Protectionist, made the
mistake of fighting last election as a “ straight Laborite."
His constituents were mainly small dairy farmers and
rearers of vegetables, and the land-tax apparition nearly
drove them insane. They were persuaded by influential
liars in Brisbane that there would be no exemption, and
that the tax would strike them. As for Bell and
O’Sullivan, they’re all right. Bell has a live flea of a
newspaper in Dalby, and a splendid record as Lands
Minister, and he will take a lot of licking in a constituency
which he has represented since a youth. And O’Sullivan
is backed by the Morgan influence, and Morgan’s paper,
Warwick Argus, one of the finest fighting provincial
journals in the Commonwealth. The Charters Towers
by-election means nothing. Pauli, the new M.L.A., is an
oid and popular Towers mining man, who knows, and
cares, as much about politics as an ant does about the
Russian Duma. His opponent was an ex-postal official,
who didn’t suit the mining taste. And the party—feel-
ing certain of victory—didn’t bother. It will bother at
next election to some purpose. I have an idea that Philp
can’t win—no matter what else happens—and it rests
upon the simple conviction that Queensland is not a
wholesale lunatic asylum.
| SPIES’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
; other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention,
DAVID BRAHAM & CO,
Ladies’ Xailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
1095 Meals
DID THIS MAN NO GOOD.
This is not a picture of “before Taking,” and then “After
Taking,” etc., but it depicts a man whose stomach has
brought him to a pitiable stage of emaciation.
DO you suffer from indigestion and constipation ? Is your tongue furred when you,
get up in the morning ! Do you have pains and a fullness after meals ? Do you
feel dizzy when stooping over? Does your liver bother you? Do you have
pains in your abdomen about an hour before meals ?
All these symptoms or one or more of them indicate that your digestive organs
are weak and out of order. They are indications that should cause you considerable
alarm and induce you to seek immediate relief. They are symptoms that, if they are
not looked to and removed, will cause you great and prolonged agony often resulting in
sudden death.
They exist because your organs are weak in nerve force. Borne abuse of your
stomach has crippled its digestive power and you must get rid of the weakness.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
corrects the action of the stomach. It gives tone and strength to the tissues, developes
the latent energies, increases the flow of gastric juices and forces the stomach to properly
assimilate the food. In this way, by restoring the nerve life that has been lost, Dr.
McLaughlin’s Electric Belt will cure any case of indigestion, and by correcting the
action of the liver, ahy case of constipation that ever existed. It is guaranteed in every
case undertaken.
If will cure all Functional Ailments which are
simply the results of a Loss of Vital Nerve Force,
Weak Back, Nervousness, Varicocele, Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Insomnia, Sciatica, Rheumat-
ism. A trial is never regretted.
MR. A. S. JONES, of CROW MOUNTAIN, writes : “ For many years I tried all sorts
of remedies for indigestion. I was so badly run down that life was a misery.
Though drugs had failed to cure me, your Belt cured me entirely in a few months.
Not only of indigestion, but debility and nervousness as well. A friend who had been
cured by it induced me to try it. I always recommend it to my friends.”
You should Read our Free Book !
Send us the Coupon opposite, and let us forward you our handsomely illus-
trated Book which tells all about our method and gives prices and full particulars.
We make no charge for written diagnosis or free personal consultation if you can
call at our office. WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY.
WILLIAM CHARLES CRAWFORD
7
-4 —
\
y
Z_
Thousands have been cured by this appliance,
and so can you be—lF YOU WILL.
SEND US THIS COUPON.
the Dr. McLaughlin co.,
100 W. Market Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —Please send me your Free Book.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrik
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handyuook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
Sosted. Sandow’s Book *of Strength, 3s posted.
arlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of PariS, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, II s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9dandls6d. Gob and My N Kipjippß, ,lQd, Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind TUB-kqEfiE's, Is 2d, : How
to Train for all S Forts, Is 3d. Diseases'of HOrses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. . French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
*
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Ohromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. Noonan .or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man Ills Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heftameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Pest Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT
• ♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SArruo, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is'3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
SArruo, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Illustrated. Medical News
sayslnfants do remark-
ably well on it.”
The British Medical Journal
saysßenger’s Food has
by its excellence estab-
lished a reputation of its
own.’ -
m
■
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, and the AGED.
BENDER’S FOOD IS SOLD BY CHEMISTS, &C., EVERYWHERE
Benger’s Food has attained
its great reputation not by
extravagant or sensational
advertisement, but by the con-
stant recommendation of those
who have used it, and of Medi-
cal men who know its value.”


Whole Foot Nothing But Proud Flesh
Tried Different Physicians and
All Kinds of Ointments—Could
Walk Only With Crutches—Ohio
Man Says:
"CUTICURA REMEDIES
THE BEST ON EARTH”
■
“In the year 1899 the side of my
right foot was cut off from the little
toe down to the heel, and the physician
who had charge of me
was trying to sew up
the side of my foot,
but with no success.
When he found out
that wouldn’t work,
he began trying to
heal the wound with
all kinds of ointment,
until at last my whole
foot and way up
above my calf was
nothing but proud
flesh. I suffered un-
told agonies for four years, and tried
different physicians and all kinds of oint-
ments. I could walk only with crutches.
It is sixteen months ago since I began
using Cuticura Soap and Ointment for
my limb and foot. The first two
months the Cuticura Remedies did not
seem to work, but I kept on using them
both. In two weeks afterwards I saw a
change in my limb. Then I began using
Cuticura Soap and Ointment often dur-
ing the day and kept it up for seven
months, when my limb was healed up
just the same as if I never had trouble.
“It is eight months now since I
stopped using Cuticura Remedies, the
best on God’s earth. I am working
at the present day, after five years
of suffering. The cost of Cuticura
Ointment and Soap was only $6;
but the doctors’ bills were more like
§6OO. You can refer any one to write
to me about Cuticura Remedies. John
M, Lloyd, 718 S. Arch Ave., Alliance,
Ohio, June 27, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S.W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula,from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
ailed Free, “ How to Cure Skin andßlood Humours."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
58
Just because
you’re a manj
don’t think
you have got
to be bald.
Your hair
grows out of your scalp, then
nourish your scalp and your hair
will grow.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
builds up, and energizes thin,
dry, tight scalps. It gives them
strength so that they can supply
vigor and life to the hair roots,
which in turn will grow thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry’s Tri-coph-erous.
Reuter’s Soap is good for shaving
Up-to-date Office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH —
Colonial Mutual Building,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Agexciks :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas.—
VARLEY BROS.,
Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOVVS BROS.,
A.M.P. Building, Perth
Of course you have System
in vour office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
FOHN SANDS, 374 George St,, Sydney
Solk Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
105,000
The WaybacK iSeries
Australia laughed 111
and keeps laughing.
No. 3.
Red Harry, 1s
7
&
D
m
•te-
r*i
nT.*
r'*
s»qs7
HAPPY, HEALTHYCHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required —not a purgative, mind ! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
it is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.**
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
This Very Fine
Gent/s Lace «
Balmoral for 10)0
In box calf, glace kid and patent leather—all at
the one price. You : ll find no boot in Australia
give better satisfaction at the price. Welted
soles —in this and all the newest shapes.
Higher grades at higher prices.
Postage Charges— When remitting add these charges to cover
postage—Victoria, 1/-; other States, 1/6.
SEND FOR THIS FREE BOOK.— We have a booklet called “ Shoelight”
that illustrates and describes all our footwear for man, woman
arid child. We post it free anywhere—write for it.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne;
And at VIC.
1 (SI 3 Errol St., Nth. Melbourne,
303 Chapel St., Prahran.
By Appointment to H.M. The King
and
H.R.H The Prince of Wales.
<*23*
“THE HOSPITAL," London, October 13th, 1906, says:—
"This compound salt is particularly suitable for children. It is economical,
and when used instead of common salt in bread-making, adds to the
phosphatic value of the bread.”
Agents—Harrison Attsuood. Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Noveltfes.
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of pqlished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The "Joker" Trick Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
clos ed,
and, to
the
amaze-
ment o f
your friends, upon re-opening the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried in the pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7d. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Bex. Post free
anywhere for 1/-. Write for Price List B.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
Box 3 , P.O. HA YMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Joker Cig'ar Case.
A great joke on Cadgers. On removing the lid;
four cigars, which appear to be quitegenuine, are
shown. Invite your friend to have a cigar, which
offer he readily accepts, and immediately he
attempts to help himself a slight pressure of the
button causes the cigars to spring out and the
figure-head to appear in their place, giving your
friend a great surprise. Creates lots of amuse-
ment. Strongly and neatly made. Price, packed
securely and posted free to any part of the world,
on receipt of 1/2.
The Squirt
Camera.
One of the most
amusing- jokes to be found
in our varied stock. Only-
clean water required for
working, and it can be used
as often as the operator
chooses, free of cost. Ask
one of your friends would
he like his photo, taken,
and, when he accepts, request him to put on his best smile and
look straight at the camera. Then withdraw the slide at back
of camera, and when your victim is quite still press the ball
inside the camera, and your friend gets the greatest shock
he ever had in his life. Strongly made of wood, with strong
self-filling rubber ball for holding the water. Price Bd.
post free anywhere. Wholesale and Retail.
The Inky Way.
“C.K.Y.” : Often Tiie Bulletin has pointed the finger
of scorn at the paper living on its scissors. Is it not time
for more than that? The writer, as the chief parent of
ideas, is the most precious person in the community,
and yet he is the most sweated and starved. Ninety-five
per cent, of our weeklies and monthlies lift their literary
matter bodily from the foreign paper, and so commit a
double robbery—they rob the foreign writer of his due,
and the local one of his opportunity. Justice is ever the
best policy, and Justice says the thief paper should be
made to pay for value received. I propose, as a prelimi-
nary measure, that all publications have a minimum
space rate fixed for them, and that for all lifted matter
used they pay at half rates into a Government trust
account which, on application, will refund, less exes., to
the original foreign writers. Also the imported serial
might well pay a tax of 100 per cent., and the pirated
illustrations should have local values charged against
them. Our artists and writers will never get an assured
crust in their own country till they can battle on even
terms for it. This is one way of enabling them to battle
on even terms.
A midnight brawl in Sydney Domain originated, one
night lately, in the discovery by a pair of dead-brokes
that one used the Watchman and'the other the Catholic
Press as chest-protectors against the dews of early
morning.
* * * *
“Viator” : In newspaper offices everywhere I see heaps
of unopened exchanges. What tons upon tons of news-
papers go through the post and are never opened. They
are a nuisance to editors and subs, and a groaning toil to
burdened postmen. This is actually a survival from the
pre-telegraphic days of the generation before last, when
all exchanges were opened with more or less eagerness.
Nowadays so many blocks of wood might as well be sent.
There ought to be a general understanding that no ex-
change is sent unless it contains something marked as of
peculiar interest to the recipient. William Lyne, as
Minister of Customs, made a courageous but futile
attempt not long ago to save the humping about of
sheafs of foreign handbills under the name of magazines.
Maybeit is a more immediate matter to lighten the post-
man of his hearse-load of dead newspapers.
* • * *
Sardonic Peter sat looking at the editor making up the
literary department of his great organ of national pro-
gress. The editor had the scissors in one hand and an
American magazine in the other. “ This is the stuff,” he
remarked, as he swept leaf after leaf out with the shears.
He stacked the lot on his left hand, on top of a pile of
sketches and pars, from various newspapers. “ What’s
that thing about?” asked Peter, with his eye on the top
lot. “Story—story—short story—just about the length
for us. Worst is that most of these mag. stories are too
long for us.” “But is that thing a good story?" asked
Peter, still eyeing the top lot. “ Didn’t read it,” snapped
the editor ; “no time for such rot. It must be decent or
it wouldn’t be printed. That’s the line Igo on. Saves ever
so much time.” “ Then you get another editor to edit for
you ? ” The editor looked at Peter, but was so husy with
the shears on another part of the magazine that he evi-
dently missed the point. “ Did you ever hear of George
Barrington?” asked Peter. “George Barrington—
George Barrington ? Yes, yes ;he was Australia’s first
literary thief,” said the editor; “ Hung out somewhere
about Parramatta, didn’t he?” “Do you know,” in-
quired Peter, slowly, “ that I think you a lineal
descendant of George Barrington? You steal another
man’s editing, as well as another man’s writing ; and, not
only that, but you defraud your employers by shoviqg in
that edited work as if it was your edited work. You’re
two kinds of thief.” And Peter strode out of the room
with the bearing of Lot leaving Gomorrah.
* • « *
The proprietor of a small Australian rag couldn’t per-
suade himself to let others capture the books sent for
review. He realised that to ensure the keeping-up of the
supply some sort of notices would have to appear, so he
used to criticise the volumes himself. At last he found
the strain of the reviews (such reviews 1) too much for his
unpractised intellect. Not long before the “ editor ” had
grown tired of writing or clipping all the rest of the
paper at a junior clerk’s wages, and the rag was running
itself with the aid of odd men in the printing depart-
ment. The proprietor doubted whether those persons
were heaven-born critics, but he thought Jones, the clerk,
might manage. He explained to Jones how nice it would
be for him to fill in an occasional evening with the plea-
sures of critical authorship, and how it might lead to the
inevitable misty “something better.” Jones meekly
accepted the extra burden without extra pay. For some
weeks he plodded conscientiously through the books,
and provided toilfully-composed notices, of which the
penmanship was excellent. Then the proprietor re-
markedßy the way, Jones, you might leave those
books at my place some evening when you’re not doing
anything.” Jones told his fluttering heart, to be still,
and daringly informed the proprietor that he had always
understood that reviewers at least kept the books they
criticised. “ Kept them? ” said the mean man. “ Why,
isn’t the pleasure of reading them enough for you?”
The idea of calling his enforced after-hours’ toil “plea-
sure ” brought forth a burst of wrath which the out-
wardly-submissive clerk had been accumulating for years,
and the proprietor of the mighty organ would have been
fairly washed out of his office only that Jones went
instead. Just now the literary quality of the reviews
leads to a surmise that the charwoman is doing them.
* * « *
“ Drinky Way”: Replied to an advt. for reporter and
compositor a while ago, and met the proprietor, to whom
I submitted (by request) samples of my leader-writing.
Said he was immensely pleased with them—just the sort
of thing he wanted. But could I write shorthand,
because I would have to report everything verbatim ? I
could; about 140 words a minute. Do job printing?
Served seven years’ apprenticeship. How about news
comping? Average 2000 an hour. Did I understand
machines? Yes ; both cylinder and platen. Had I ever
done any canvassing or collecting? A little. Good ;he
would meet me at the railway station in the morning and
buy a ticket for me ; and when I got to Gippsland I would
be the proud editor, reporter, machinist, printer, can-
vasser, collector, and devil. With visions of princely
affluence, I treinblingly inquired the salary. Fixing me
with an eye like an eel, he said it was 275. 6d. per week-
less 2s. 6d. for the use of a room at the office in which to
sleep. Incidentally he mentioned that my predecessor
drank.
THE PENNY-A-LINER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am the Vulture of the Press,
Who preys upon the dead,
And who in others’ dire distress
Sees beer and board and bed.
I hover round the citizen
Who’s cut off in his prime ;
1 batten on the woes of men,
And reap rewards from crime.
The weary feet that sadly stray
Across the “ Bridge of Sighs ”
All walk—unwittingly—my way.
These are my lawful prize.
My erstwhile friend may writlifi within
The clutches of the law ;
If I can “ get a few lines in ”
He goes to feed my maw.
With ineradicable ink
I smirch the honored name ;
1 fish from Ignominy’s sink
The derelicts of Shame.
With stolid, swift indifference
I tell your loss and gain ;
When grateful showers from Heaven are sent
I measure up the rain.
To me float stores of flotsam big
Upon Depression’s wave,
As with my broad “ J ” pen I dig
Your reputation’s grave.
Calamity and accident,
Drought, and disaster dire,
Bjr a kind Providence are sent
To keep alight my fire.
I am the Vulture of the Press
Who preys on quick and dead ;
In maiden’s shame and men’s distress
Are beer and board and bed.
VIC.
H. GOLDING.


HEALT
M. S. S.
CURES
ABSOLUTELY
indigestion
Constipation
Biliousness
AND ALL
DIGESTIVE
ILLS.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S SYRUP gives you
health because it restores your stomach
liver and bowels to natural working’
activity: ill-health is then impossible It
gives you strength because it enables
you to digest your food and to draw from
it the nourishment it contains: strength
is then assured
MOTHER
SYRUP
For five years I suffered intensely from
indigestion. If I ate anything solid I
was certain to vomit, so I had to exist
on liquids. I tried many medicines, but
nothing did me any good but MOTHER
SEIGEL’S SYRUP. That cured me com-
pletely."—Mrs S. E Bennett, 19. Cootes
Street, South Melbourne
STRENGTH
3*lVb
n
31
0
-J
f%4
STtfttO
SB
m
&
tt*l
b*
m*
«**'»'
1IGH(0
5®
1!
C 5
r
moi v
Under Instructions from the Hon.
the Premier and Colonial Treasurer.
SUBDIVISION of CROWN LAND.
CITY OF SYDNEY. COOK & PARK ROADS.
Parish of Alexandria, County of Cumberland.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, April 20,1907, at 3 o’clock p.m.
The subdivision comprises 52 allotments, in areas from 21f perches to’l rood 17£'perches, with frontages from
45 to 68£ feet. Prices range from £llos. to £9 per foot. The allotments front or are adjacent to Park and
Cook Roads, close to the Queen Street entrance of the Centennial Park, the Sydney Cricket Ground, and the
Agricultural Society’s Grounds, and partly adjoining the Commonwealth Military Lands; within easy dis-
tance of the Sydney to Paddington Tramway, about twenty minutes by tram from the General Post Office.
TERMiS {—Deposit, 25 per cent. ; balance in five equal annual instalments, with interest at 5 per
cent, per annum.
PLANS and all particulars may be obtained from the Information Bureau, Department of Lands,*
or the Auctioneers
Messrs. HARD IE & GORMAN,
PITT STREET.
sa, 138.
S. C. F. HAHNEMANN,
DISCOVERER OF
HOMOEOPATHY,
HOMEOPATHY.
THE SECRET OP
HEALTH.
Do you realise the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are glad to be
able to state that the treatment of Weak-
ness and Kindred Ailments, Nervous-
ness, Stomach and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism and Allied Complaints,
Prostatic Affecftions, Etc., are com-
pletely and permanently cured by
THE IRVING HOMEOPATHIC TREATMENT.
A well-known Practitioner, in a recent lecture at a London
Hospital, stated :—“ Homoeopathy is only in its infancy, and if the
public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment
they would not fly to nauseous medicines taken in large quantities,
but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power—HOMOEOPATHY.
We would like you to know more about our method, so in
order that you can make a study of our system, we will send to
your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure
“ WORDS OF WISDOM ” to any person who will write to—
THE IRVING HOIVItEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION,
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
Mor6 recollections :
Some residents of Collingwood and Fitzroy (Melb.) re-
member “ Elijah ” Dowie with gratitude as a provider of
entertainment in their juvenile days, when “ silver coin ”
variety afed melodrama shows were rare. ’Lije’s enter-
tainments started when he was foiled, in the early ’Bo’s,
in his mean attempt to edge the Rev. 0. M. Cherbury
(absent on sick leave) out of the pulpit of the Colling-
wood Congregational Church, at the back of Wren’s tote
premises. Certain brethren and sisters, hypnotised by
Dowie’s profuse tears and whiskers, followed him out of
the church to form a new sect, whose Thirty-nine
Articles were summed up in a blind faith in the great
John Alex, (he wasn’t Elijah then). By extremely
devious methods Dowie managed to acquire a “ taber-
nacle” of his own in Johnson-street, Fitzroy, and from
this base he used to set forth on cursing missions through
two suburbs, followed by his woebegone flock and a
joyous crowd of unbelieving youths. Sad-eyed sisters
made their way into hotel bars, and laid tracts on the
long-beer glasses of those present, while Dowie yelled from
outside to Moorabinda Anastasia W’ogsby, or whateverthe
licensee’s full name might be, to come out and be saved.
There is no case on record in which this interesting
operation eventuated, but now and then the licensee
Rewarded the prophet with a drenching of water or sour
beer. The purple.-patchers of modern rhetoric were not
in it with the Dowie of that day. His curse oratory was
shot with all the colors known to art, and a few more
which he had discovered on his own account. ■ But, alas !
even the most artistic cursing loses its charm with the
years. Also, it is foolish for a religious actor-manager to
perpetually star himself. The Salv’army knew better.
It descended on Collingwood just about that time, and
its. continually augmented melodramatic troupe, and the
noisiest brass band yet known, caused Dowie stocks to
fall rapidly. ’Lije knelt in the road puddles and
denounced in vain. Not even the smallest boy would
walk 10yds. to listen to him, and Bung went on pumping
beer with blank indifference. Eventually Dowie migrated
to Maoriland, leaving behind him the same tale of debt
and trickery which stands to his record in other fields of
effort. In new hands his Fitzroy congregation languished
still more, and after a time the wooden “ tabernacle ”
passed into the possession of the local branch of the
Church of Christ. Nowadays it is an afflicted-looking
building, suffering from the occupancy of the insatiable
Salv’army and the need of a coat of paint.
In St. John’s churchyard, Alt-street, Ash-
field (N.S.W.), on a 24in. freestone slab, which
has withstood the elements for 60 years, may be
read the following :
Sacred
To the Memory of
JOHN LIMEBOURNER,
Who arrived in this Colony by
The First Fleet.
■ Died September 4, 1847.
Aged 104 Years.
It is one of a group of four, the oldest in the
churchyard. The others are “Frederick, only
son of Frederick Joseph Underwood, of Ashfield
Park, who died in 1845”; Mary Anne Bailey,
who died in 1846 ; and Sergeant William Flores,
late of the 88th Regiment, who also died in 1846.
These look like the last of the first fleeters.
Fred Johns, who makes “ Notable Aus-
tralians,” promises to widen the area of Fame in
his next number, and include Maorilanders. It
will then be the complete record of the Austral-
asian Great—with a few of the not-so-great.
Thirty-five years ago Darcy Uhr, who died
■lately in Westralia, piloted Dillon Cox’s cattle
from Burketown to Port Darwin. Nowadays it is
a common route, but he was the first white man
to take the trip. By way of another long ride, he,
when Inspector of Native Police, chased a horse-
thief from Burketown, on the Gulf, to the N.S.
Wales border, and caught him.
Sydney lager-beer brewer Resch who
is getting to be one of the rich men in
N.S. Wales, can bless the rabbits for his first
lift. He was running a beer factory at Wilcannia
when N.S.W. was spending millions on rab-
biting. The rabbiters made huge cheques they
had huge thirsts, and in quenching the’same
Resch laid the foundation of his fortune.
The Lily of St. Leonards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis sunrise over Watson
Where I sailed out to sea
On that wild run to London
That wrecked and ruined me ;
The beauty of the morning
On point and bluff and bay,
But the Lily of St. Leonards
Was fairer than the day.
Oh ! Lily of St. Leonards !
But I was mad to roam—-
She died, with loving words for me,
Three days ere I came home.
As fair as lily whiteness,
As pure as lily gold,
And bright with child-like brightness,
And wise as worlds of old.
Her heart for all was beating,
And all hearts were her own.
Like sunlight through the lily
Her purity was shown.
Oh ! Lily of St. Leonards !
My night is on the track ;
’Tis well, you never lived to see
The wreck that I came back.
The leaden sky shuts over
A leaden sobbing sea,
For the Lily of St. Leonards t
Is never more for me.
And I seek the wharves of Outward
Where the deck no longer thrills—
Where her tears of farewell glistened
Like the lights on dark, wet hills.
Oh ! Lily of St. Leonards !
There were laurels on my brow,
And the World Star blazed its grandest—
’Tis the star of exile now !
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


<3
m
4)
m
&
VK.
c 5
&.
&
m
<4
<4
w.
&
%
&
o:
*©©’
kg>
kg>
v>\>
ft®*
VO
*Y
XV
\*°
W*
<s^
Jfc*
<5
8
<s>*
*©•»
t©
V"
<s^
w
a«
<s^
v©
&*°
©®
e©’
o©
Yrt
t©
X>\®
Hi
o*
\e©’
*©
*®
V©
t©
©i
©*
g'*
*©'
X,®
€.
&
s&
€
to
*V*
©1
o®
©*
v#
A© 6
©*
#
t©
6^
fe®
\©©'
v©
*,©*
t©
to
e®
©n
*©
\*
t©*
o®
x&
o'
o®
1©
i°
o©
o©
o®
V©
t©
V©
@
o©'
*®
O
<?
VO
&®
V®
Y<©
Y©
O'
O'*'
c©
©©
t©
t°
o'
\©o
Y®*
<x
v®
to
Hi
\\©
©£*
1©
©'
O'*
e®
t©*
V©*
vo
ttO
t* v
O'
o®
V,
©.O
©®’
o®
-v©*
t©
Yi
<sY®
t©
4t©
*>
to
t©
0o e
VO
\©
V©
\o
t©
a.®
<v*°
Y®
to
*
oO
©1
to
©®
G®
VO
to
V©
o©
©fc
00®
e©
Y<**
Hi
oO
©*3
t©'
©O
tv'
\©
HI
tF
Y©
t©
t©
V©
<Y®
W©
Y©
Y©
Y'°
o'
0*
©o
t®
t^
00®
e°
Hi
<V®
H©
O©®
to
©V
tvO
t©
HV
t©o
o'
VO
t©
Y>©'
o©
00©
\V
o©
©'
H©
€o<
tov
t©
t©
t'
00
W'°
t©
to®
t©®
oO
O'
t©
Hi
©*
o©
©O
vVj
\©
to
ttO
©®
VO
©3
H©
00©
Oo©
tvfe
o'*
t©*
to
oO
©*
V©
\V
©'
V'O
t©
VO
t©®
to
t©
00
oo°
s©
Vj\®
Hi'
©^
m
VO
toV
t©
©^
00®
e®
t'®
03
t©
t©o
o
OO
oO
o'
o©'
©O
O© 6
t"
o'
88
t©'
t'
to
Hi
oi s
d©
to
oo©
C>YV°
t©©
V©
o©
Oo©
o'
t''
*'
tOW©
V®
V©
t'
t©^
©©
s©
©O
\®
©V
\3©
V©
t©
o^
o®
oO
t©'
V®
03
©O
oo©
©o
VO®
<S
to
to
to
Hl®
VO
oo©
t©'
C°
O
t©
&
to
e©
Y>©
o®
Oo©
&
Wi
s,o
03
\oo
•£'v©
V'
Hi
O®
C»©
gO'
e®
YO°
\>©
<+
Hi
O'
\V©
oiO
t®
o©'
t©
o
tt®
&
oo©
\®
O'
o"
to
&
&
V>©
o®
o©
Oo
V'
&
©»o
\©
V©
l 0
Oo®
e'
**
o'*
Oo
o©
oo®
**
\o^
V
o
to®
©
t©
o
W'°
o©
\V
o*
©1
c?
00
t®
o
to
Hi'
w®
©1
v^®
H©
o
<tt®
&©
vt>
£
30©®
©?
VOO
©O
c,e®
few
xO®
o®
©o
oo®
V®
Sv
VO®
W*
0’
\\©
tt©
6N^°
a©
6\ etv
X
\©
tVJ
\0
6®
©o
\©
%
w
s o
e'
©>
*®
x'i
Qg
&
«\N
t®©
%V
4,0
u»
t*'
OtO
:t,
sSv»
cN
dV'®
v£
so
#
t©
os
«XY 6^
to®
m
©©
Y©
e©
to®
to®
o'Y ct
€
it
it
it
#
4>
&
4>
w
4>
\>
o
o
@
<n*
3J
<&
&
0
A
£
®
23
23
d
Txffi
A
s#/
<&
vjt
w
N&
6
s§
XX
<g)
<g>
g>
&
<g)
<g)
s^n


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and'Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : CEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. ' .. 413.270 5 0
Reserve(in Govt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55,000 0 0
interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
/ l New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Br. ’cues : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. : Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager,— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial IQutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS A STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148—Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of north Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director.:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., 'Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UR .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Bank of ||au> South (Bales.
Established 1817,
Head Offico -GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. ... .y 2,000,000 0 o
Reserve Fund 1,475,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Total 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. Charles K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Sir James R. Fairfax, Kt.
RICHARD BINNIE, Esq.
Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.Reginald,James Black, M.L.C.
Auditors:
Frederick W. Utiier, Esq. A. G. Milson, Esq.
London Office—Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, arid the West Indies.
Th 6 Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J .RUSSELL FRENCH,
General Manager
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... -£4,000,000
Capital Paid up £1,000,000.
Reserve Fund £165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA—Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES—Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND—Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA —Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Gkraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND—Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —Adelaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
Shipping.
nxr. id. l.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
’Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Prom SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALOEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
MANILA . .. .. .. 4th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent-
Ouisipe, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
''LOIIMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal flank of Queensland
LIMITED. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve PuND(ln vested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office':
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
♦MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
A. Simpson .. I Noon, April 26
N. Allan .. I Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon, June 21
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
MEDIO, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 9th APRIL,
AFRIC, SUEVIO, PERSIC and
RUNIC to follow.
fares—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f Houpay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.*,
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World, SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER liINE STEAMERS. Kon£eS!fo? fced
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &c.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE 3,950
OVINGREAN GRANGE .. .. /. .. 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
EESTREE GRANGE .. .. 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE .. .. ... .. .. 6,770
Steamer. Tons-
BEACON ORANGE .. .. 6,770
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
THORPE GRANGE 6,380
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS , .. .. 7,420
First, Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Cordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
31 Days to Auckland 8J Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to” Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. SONOMA, Twin-screw, sails APRIL 8, 1 p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
' v Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—-
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
(#>
&
Free
" Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT.S.W.
fflontde pieteQ.ii I. (Jo., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEEEAGH S r., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office,*
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE - ALL-RED ROUTE.
The Most Attractive Route
to Canada, United States
and Europe.
Sailings :
From Sydney. From Brisbane.
MANUKA- - April 15 April 17
AORANGI- - May 13 May 15
MIOWERA - June 10 June 12
MANUKA- - July 8 July 10
Illustrated Pamphlets furnished
Free on application.
—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N. 2. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : lion. A. W. Meeks, MvL.G. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. CamI'LELL Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne: lion. F. S. Grlmwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
BESEItYE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. 11. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.O. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOItROW ,\1 AN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Yongrala, Wednesday,
April 17.
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday
May 1.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Warrego, April 6.
S.S. Marloo, April 13.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
C. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
__ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritimes
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
hrench Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
pAt> DE ’ Fremanti;e > COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ,and
id to Bombay, India, China,
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
Batavia, and Japan,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES.
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
ENGLISH
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landingand passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Principal Agent
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited .
Capital Paid-up ... ... £1,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ..> ... 1,130,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,000,000 0 0
£3,130,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C.
Auditors :
W. L. Docker, Esq. E. S. Cape, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
liondon Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpH.fi Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria


THIS
Racing Chronograph
GUARANTEED for THREE YEARS
Post Free to any Address in Australia
X.
%
mu
K
'T'HIS watoh is absolutely exact in timekeeping, and
* is made specially to stand real hard wear and
remain accurate.
It is a beautifully finished Lever Watch, fitted with
20 jewels, compensation balance, and all the newest
improvements. The case is made of the finest gun-
metal, with a flat crystal glass face. Perfectly dust-
proof. The watch is wound and s?t without opening
the case. It times to the fifth of a second, and
c unts the minutes independently. Instantaneous
start, stop and fly back. Every watch is thoroughly
tested and regulated before being sent to you. A
written guarantee with every watch for three years.
Post Free, £3. Sit down and write for one to-day,
and if you are not thoroughly satisfied, your money
refunded without murmur. The equal of an 3' £lO 10s.
Chronograph made. Write for Catalogue, post free.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/ij & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
with
Aledicator, clzo
3) Inchea loo^.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try ©ur
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for book’et Iree, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
h
Oaiine
Will make your complexion
clear and beautiful.
Make a point of trying this great English
face cream. It removes the dust and dirt
that clog the pores of the skin and which
soap and water does not thoroughly remove.
It is free from dangerous mineral salts and
animal fat, which heat causes to go bad. It
does not grow hair.
If you use Oatine regularly, the dry Aus*
tralia-n climate will not cause your skin to
crack or peel and ruin your complexion.
Get a jar of Oatine to-day. However
trying the weather or fierce the sun your
skin will always be clear and healthy if you
use it. Men should use it after shaving.
Price 1/3 ajar at all chemists, stores,
throughout Australia. Larger size
four times the amount, 2/6.
• •
WEAR . .
BucKley & N unn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Two
other Shapes
Same Price.
No. lO W
ALL SIZES and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted!
’>
\
"3
111
f W"' l
C 'f^'l
#
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
OF
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14f6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
“HARNESS THE WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S «£?
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
of
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering elsewhere.
James Martin & Co
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP.
PRICE 27/6
c
TAILOR-iADE
CORSETS.
B
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type imriieas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance hold sway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
/'■
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
Obtainable in ail styles from all
Progressive stores in Australasia-
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to
J. E. Newport, Sons & Co., Flinders Lane,
A. E. Wittey, York Street, Sydney. Melbourne.
J. Bunting-, Hobson Street, Auckland.
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought f6r twice the
money in any other house. Tht y are the Besfi 1 Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send ! -ratal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustr;i ced Catalogues Post* Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAB, 21/- Length, lj yds
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
fi Give Me.. 9
The Sweet and Good
Briar Pipe.
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists
Don’t Lubricate
your bowels with castor oil, gly-
cerine, or other oily laxatives that
let the matter slide through. This
makes them more lazy until finally
you have to lubricate them
regularly. Lubrication does not
cure. It relieves for a while only
then you find yourself compelled
to keep on dosing yourself with-
out getting results. Adopt nature’s
way—exercise. That’s the only;
sure way of curing constipation
and its allied troubles. Exercise
your bowel muscles with Reuter’s
Little Pills. They start the.
digestive juices flowing. They set;
the hundreds of cells inside your
bowels to work absorbing nourish-.
ment which builds you up and
makes you well.
Reuter's Soap cures skin trouble*
THE DEAF HEAR
DEAF persons need not despair. Out of the mass
of failures has come a genuine success, Head
noises are cured and deaf made to hear so
effectively that they wonder if they really wete
deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery; bdsed--
upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity,
that will assist all persons suffering from- Deafness;,
fully described. v ;i
FREE,
By sending- name and address, to.THE
L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-
street, Sydney, you will receive a description of
this method, which will enable you to restore .your
hearing at a very slight expense ; and you will.be
delighted to learn how easily you can obtain relief.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
A TEST HOROSCOPE
Calculated and written by R. Herscliell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, VV. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE Incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL (.of London),
“ Woodville,” Mount Albert,
Melbourne.
! It is nice to do the <
| necessary cleaning with !
Calvert’s |
Carbolic Tooth Powder !
That is obvious at once from its ,
pleasant flavour and the feeling of <
freshness left in the mouth, and of 1
course you will soon see how ]
splendidly, how easily, and how <
thoroughly it cleans.
Sold by Local Chemists and Stores.
) Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
DRUNKENNESS
WORTH KNOWING WORLD-WIDE.
EUCRASY
The CELEBRATED and
only SAFE, SURE, and
SPEEDY ANTIDOTE to
DRINK.
THIS Cure for Drunkenness can be given secretly or
otherwise: Placed in a cup of tea or coffee, or. in
food, its presence cannot bp noticed.: , Perfectly
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so quietly,
and with such certainty, that the patient undergoes no
inconvenience, and ere he is aware his complete reform is
effected. If you mention this paper, m book of
particulars and samples of Eucra'sy,. free sealed.
Address : THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., Sydney.


Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security of Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand 10*- AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; F. E. Wincheombe, Esq. ; Rollo A. Cape, Esq
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
VM
;.'rv^§
m
:&r.
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles, Revolvers and Pistols.
Winchester cartridges in all
calibers from .22 to .50, shoot
where you aim when the trigger
is pulled. They are always
accurate, reliable and uniform.
Shoot Them and YouTl Shoot Well.
Always Buy Winchester Make.
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEH,specialist
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
11l I 111 TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
VlTill Cure tine Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
'Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. <Ss 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
BLOOD CURE PILLS
Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23 6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
Weak Women
Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23 6.
Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Over Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE ?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z. HANS PCTCR RASMU .. tM>
THE fIOOORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JBI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, Jewellery, Etc., 2 io Queen St., Brisbane
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
IGI KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.-*! TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combings made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephone 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
r 7 V
X
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
&A t
to
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
Beautiful Home Decorations
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
“SAPOLIN” FIjOOK STAINS Btain and varnish with one operation.
Brilliant, rich, permanent hardwood colors produced on Floors, Borders,
Woodwork and Furniture where extreme durability is desired.
“SAPOIIW” ALIIMIJIIIIW EHAHEL gives unsightly Pipes. Boilers,
or anything made of metal, wood, etc., a durable, untarnishable silver finish,
in or outdoors. Simply brushit on.
JAPANESE COLD PAINT (Ready Mixed). Unequalled in lustre and
ease of application. Adheres to any surface. For all decorative purposes,
economical and satisfactory.
For sale by all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of “OUR FAVORITE” GOLD ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” ENAMEL, “SAPOLIN” BATH
TUB ENAMEL, Etc.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
03m Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In uie since 1596.
ifei
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
DR. J. GOLDS BROWNE'S
CHLORODYNE
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHIEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c. bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor —
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN€
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorodyne. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a lafge number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
U 1
k
v.'i;
m
Wo WolYver shouVl \>e Vt
[ ow teo^est.
Aprogressm? d/etary adapted to t/?e grown# d/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l
fro/7?/>/rtf to 3m07/t/?s.
Milk Food N? 2
from 3 to 6 months.
Malted Food N°3
From 6 months op wards.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
W Y\
co u g
y 9
Yr C
Take
£
V
nowiCLL s
BALSAM OF ANISEED
fluß wonderful Remedy has stood the test for 80 years as the one Safe and Reliable Remedy lor
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
and all THROAT AND LUNG TROUBLES.
It affords Immediate relief arid a speedy cure- Read the following proof of its efficacy —
The Keyd. Wm. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage. Eorncastle:- a^ cl S’or the past twelve years I have
been in the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your Balsam. I should not be
exaggerating if I said I had never known it to fail. Wltenever I have a cough I use it in preference to
ai ything else, and again and again it has cured me.”
Powell’s Balsam of Aniseed has proved itself to be the most effectual remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, etc., etc. A cold nipped in the bud has often saved a life, and there is no surer or safer
preventive from the serious consequences o£ a neglected cold than a few doses of this excellent prepara-
tion. It should be one of the first aids kept in the house.”— The Gentleman's Journal.
Of all Chemists and Stores. Observe the Trade Mark on the outer wrapper.
Proprietors:— TH05. POWELL, Ltd., BLACKFRIARS, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland —
ELLIOT BROS., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, A Eagle Street, Brisbane.


VICTORIA
Collins & SwansfonSt!
WEST. AUSTRALIA f'A
3955397 Hay St Perm /([l
QUEENSLAND VV
QueenS Edward St? Brisbane wO
NEW ZEALAND
H 65143 QueenSL Auckland.
153 LambtonQuay. Wellington.
236 5233 HighS';
Princes 5 DowlingSt? DunedinJ^
5l sYPW^i
/fit’s from
(Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store nearest,
you.
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRA TED PRICE LIST.
STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of “ glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods ; then you will be fully satisfied.
'fgnvxro'*
*G)
m
9ct. Gold, Amethyst Heart Drop,
Bird and Scroll Brooch, 14s 6d.
Extra Strong Beaded Close Curb
Brooch, 14s 6d.
“ Dearest ” Brooch, 9ct. Gold,
15s 6d.
Oval Amethyst and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 18s 6d.
Pearl Set Spray and New Moon
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, £1 Is.
llSct. Gold Leaf Centre Brooch,
£1 Is.
9ct|. Gold Twin Bar Rose and
Ruby Set Brooch, £1 2s 6d.
Pearl Set Double Heart Brooch,
9ct, Gold, £1 10s.
15ct Gold and Pine Pearl Sham-
rock Br ooch, £llos.
15ct. Gold Pea rl and Ruby
Brooch, ££. 12s 6d.
15ct. Gold and Op.*l Set Scroll
Brooch, 37a 6d.
'.Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Bird
Brooch, £1 17s 6d.-
'.lsct. Gold Twin Bar and Pearl
Set Brooch, £2.
ff'iine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£2.
Pearland Sapphire Set 15ct.
Gold Brooch, £2 ss.
Ruby and Diamond Butterfly
Brooch, Silver Settings on Gold,
£3 7s 6d.
15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, 15s 6d.
I Diamond and Ruby Set Fine Gold
Daisy Brooch, £6 6s.
1 Fine Gold Brooch Set Diamonds
aud Rubies or Sapphires, Pearl
Centre, £l3 10s.
9ct. Gold Bar Knot and Heart Brooch,
6s 6d.
15ct. Gold Pearl Set or. Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant,
£3 10s.
9ct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise Set
Safety Pin, 16s 6d.
15ct. Gold Brooch, set Diamond, Ruby
and Sapphire, 32s 6d.
9ct. Gold, Pearl Set Daisy Brooch, 22s 6d
. ....
15ct. Gold, Pearl Set or Pearl and
Turquoise Brooch and Pendant,
£5 15s.
9ct. Gold, Pearl Set Lyre Brooch, 21s.
Fine Pearl and Turquoise and 9ct.
Gold New Art Brooch, £llss.
15ct. Gold and Pearl Crescent Brooch,
355.
15ct. Gold and Fine Opal Trefoil or
Shamrock Brooch, £3 ss.
Greenstone and 9ct. Gold Brooch
17s 6d.
Carved Greenstone and 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 14s 6d.
Diamond and Ruby Set 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 22s 6d.
Amethyst and Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst Centre 9ct. Gold Bell,
Bar and Chain Brooch, 255.
9ct. Gold Fancy Pearl Set Leaf
and Bar Brooch, 255.
9ct. Gold Pearl Set Scroll and
Twin Bar Brooch, very strong',
27s 6d.
Diamond, Ruby and Sapphire Set
9ct. Gold 2-Bar Brooch, 255.
Massive 9ct. Gold Twin Bamboo
Bar, Bell, Leaf and Chain Brooch,
27s 6d.
Strong 9ct. Gold Polished Bar
Brooch, Opal Heart Set, 30s.
15ct. Gold, Pearl and Turquoise
Brooch, 30s.
9ct. Gold, New Moon, Bird and
Bower Brooch, Set Pearls all over,.
£2 15s.
15ct. Gold, 4 Opals in Diamond
Setting, Twin Bar Brooch,
£2 12s 6d.
Fine Pearl Set Scroll Twin Bair
15ct. Gold Brooch, £2 12s 6d.
Pearl Set New Moon and Robira
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
Fine Opal and Diamond Set 1 Set-
Gold Scroll Brooch, £l6 10s.
Fine Opal Heart and Lover’s Knott
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3 ss.
‘Lily of the Valley” 15ct. Gold*
Pearl and Fine Opal Set Brooch,
£5 10s.
QL-Oua
iFi
m


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
K6c LEADING
HOUSE
■
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
°" r Special Snap
COLLECTOR GUN
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38iin., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
£.l 15s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun—ls !)d, N.S.W. ;3s 2d, Interstate.
CANT
B
BEAT
The Famous Remedy for*
BRONCHITIS
CURE
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Suflerers from any form of Bronchitis. Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoaiseness, 1 am or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
ettects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic nor Consumption to develop Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations Z The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number*
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get i+
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc iiy.
N OTIC E.~ Hearne ’ S Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for
the youngest child and the most aged person.
>
J<f or
K
$
Disinfecting!
Fluid.
COLORLESS,
FRA'RANT,
NON-.OJSNOUS.
Pint Bottles.
Oxidant § Germicide
Indispensable in all Sick Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/- & 1/3 Boxes Soap.
Of all Chemists and Storekeepers.
The “SANITAS” Co.,
Ltd., Limohouse^
London.
POLICY roit the COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id.
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will he
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expenses, by awarding as prizes many thousand pounds’worth of
Watches which would otherwise he spent in advertising and printing.
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
mas many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure There is
way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
IBLE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “ The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
5
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle mention
whether you would like Lady sor Gent, s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm The distance
•' ? u uia y hve away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brain work for solid cash. With your solution oF this nuzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you six dozen of the most artistic penny picture post cards you have
n'se 1 vm/h Ever j Vbo t dy wants Picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 72 P cards for your own
use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay vou a penny for each' one vou
a Solid’simwl ’i thU « S y ?, U get double the value for the money you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Watch. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
U ' at We ?'? y lnforra -Y 0 . u . lf T° u have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr. Mrs or
Miss, and address your letters very plainly to ’ ’
ELLISPQN & CO., Angel Place, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
NO CERTAINTY without
“RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF lager beer
ALL LEADING HOTELS.
Pure and Wholesome.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL ; A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
&f>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, lOd.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
•rup Deer
Blood Purifier
IN THE WORLD.
WHY SUFFER with that chronic
disease? Do you want to die ? Sul-
phur Bitters will cure you as it has
thousands.
Why do you suffer with that
FOUL, OFFENSIVE BREATH?
You need not if you use Sulphur
Bitters. They never fail to cure.
Operatives who are closely confined
in the mills and workshops; clerks
who do not have sufficient exercise,
and all who are confined indoors,
should use Sulphur Bitters. They
will not then be
WEAK AND SICKLY.
Is your Breath impure. Your
Stomach is out of order. Sulphur
Bitters is the best medicine to take.
Sulphur Bitters will build you up
and make you
6TRONQ AND HEALTHY.
At the dawn of womanhood, Sul-
phur Bitters should be used.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You can become a Hypnotist in a few hours
time without leaving your home. You can
sway the minds of others, control friendship
and affection, cure disease and bad hab’
gratify your ambitious and produce «junse-
ment by the hour. My mammoth Illustrated
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which I send
free cf charge and postage paid, will tell you
all about this marvelous science. It contains
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shows
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Send for
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature, with-
out charge. A chance of a lifer.'"'*.
Write to-day. Address—
?rof. R. H. BARRADENj aa Pitt St., Sydney
ON THE HOP!
Price 21s. The Bulletin Office, Sydney


RHEUMATISM
BACKACHE
Dr. SHELDON’S
MAGNETIC
LINIMENT
Cures where all
else fails.
CHILBLAINS
LUMBAGO
*yts
t
j Unrivalled for the Complexion.
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & 80HN,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF'S.
Sole Agents : LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
(Mutual)
Established 1871.
CHIEF OFFICE I OR N.S.W.—
263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY>
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (I) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10s. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. H. BAXTER. Res. Sec.
THTTYRE' THAT MAI>R
PlMffii
V.
- ; ■
cEftfjpEffiS-
m
&
a m
met&ies
'm&.
GRAVEL AND STONE.
"When there is a sediment like brick-dust in the urine it is a certain indication that the kidney
are not doing their work properly, and immediate steps should be taken to restore their hfealtln
action. If this precaution is neglected, the particles will gradually become larger, and the miserable
suffering caused by Gravel or Stone will result.
Stones are usually found in the kidneys, and descend thence into the bladder. They are composed
of uric acid, or of oxalate of lime ; solid matter which should be held in solution in the fluids of the
body, and be passed off in a dissolved condition in the urine. Uric acid stone is by far the commonest
kind.
When a stone is formed in a kidney great pain in the loins is felt, and this becomes agonising
when the stone leaves the kidney and passes through one of the narrow channels leading to the
bladder. The pain then experienced is known as Kidney Colic. It ceases when the stone reaches the
bladder.
Once in the bladder, the stone may be passed off with the urine, or it may remain and become
larger by the accumulation of deposits. Sometimes a stone will form in the bladder by the simple
gathering together of particles of gravel.
Persons of all ages may suffer from stone or gravel. Even little children are not exempt.
When a stone formed in the kidneys is too large to pass through the passage leading' into the
bladder, the passage becomes closed, dropsy stets in, and the patient may die in a few hours.
When stones remain long in the bladder , they grow to a great size, sometimes as large as an
orange, and they frequently have to be cut out.
The following symptoms indicate stone or. gravel in the kidneys or bladder:—Painful itching
sensation ; swelling of the seat of pain ; cramps in the legs and scrotum *. bearing down sensation in
rectal region ; paroxysms of pain from kidneys to bladder—“kidney colic;” pain and difficulty in
urinating, with sudden stoppages.
Treatment. —The only rational method of treatment for this disease is to correct the action of
the kidneys, thereby removing the cause. In a healthy condition of the kidneys and urinary system
the water holds the solids in solution until it escapes from the body. In disease the solids are
deposited in the kidneys and bladder.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE
restores to the kidneys their natural action, relieves congestion, heals the wounded and bleeding
mucous membranes of the. urinary; system, dissolves the stones already formed, and prevents furthei
formation. Warner’s Safe Cure,is the only remedy in the world which has this power, and if the case
is amenable to any medicinal form of treatment, it will ultimately effect a cure.
BLADDER DISEASE.
Inflammation or Catarrh of the Bladder (Cystitis) is usually due to long retention of urine ; the
effect .of irritating drugs; stricture; enlargement of the prostate gland ; irritation caused by stone
or gravel, or by the careless use of a catheter ; exposure to cold ; decomposition of urine caused by its
retention, etc.
There are two forms of this complaint—Acute and Chronic—the latter being peculiar to elderly
people. It is commoner in winter than in summer ; in cold than in warm climates ;in males than iii
females. It is always dependent upon some obstruction to the-flow of urine, or upon a diseased con-
dition of the urinary organs. The Bladder not being entirely emptied, the water retained
decomposes. ' ,
The kidneys are generally seriously involved in the mischief, the catarrh being usually a
secondary symptom of disease of the kidneys, and unless these are restored to their natural condition
a cure cannot be effected.' - -
Warner s Safe Cure corrects the unnatural condition of the kidneys, prevents the formation of
pus and mucous by healing the inflamed membranes, and causes the water to become normal.
A treatise containing many letters from people who have been cured of Stone, Gravel and Bladder
Diseases will be sent post free by H. H. Warner and Co., Ltd., Australasian Branch, Melbourne.
... . ... ' . , [ll]
Juno.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY fences school the vagrant tilth
Of universal life ;
I slow evolve from tribal filth
The family, the wife.
To house-migrating souls, I slip
’Neath thoughtless Beauty’s vest
Maternal love, the cradling hip,
The fountains of the breast.
C teach the mother how to die,
To save for earth my gift;
Impose on wealth and poverty
The seemly codes of thrift.
My patient devotees forego
The present joys of earth,
On future sailors to bestow
Unruffled Ports of Birth.
They stopped the rivulets of waste,
And stored the fruits of toil
That with the home and hamlet graced
The solitary soil;
For all that Comfort’s arts extort
From Nature’s treasure-chest
Is but to soften or support
The baby Future’s nest.
I’m arbiter of kingdoms, and
! Am Birth’s benignant Fate ;
The State upon the Home I planned—
Yea, for it built the State.
Mine are the statutes that secure
The feeble from the strong;
Taboo from Lust the immature
Who overhear his song.
When reckless Passion, out of breath,
His goddess would obey.
They slip the thong that leashes Death
To guard the flying prey.
Though prone to favor rites unbanned,
When Birth’s great word is said
O’er lawful couch alike I stand
And simple Nature’s bed.
The superstitions wan that give
Me baby-tributes will
All sterile cults of Truth outlive
While I retain my skill ;•
Though childless Genius look down
On gravid Ignorance,
Imperial Rome regrets my frown,
And fears it brilliant France.
I read to nations that employ
The rites that soil my name,
The secret of the fall of Troy,
Pompeii’s smothered fame.
When Lust and Comfort form a league
My tributes to evade,
Nor stop the blasphemous intrigue
Till Nature grows afraid,
Winged by the Higher Power, I fly
Through every land on Earth
To re-proclaim the Mystery
And Sacrament of Birth.
New fears into their nerves I call,
Who use the rite unclean ;
I open fissures in the wall
That parts the hid and seen,
Whence issue wan forebodings fit
To warn the neophytes,
And whence uncanny ailments flit
And eerie meteor-lights.
I build for flotsam of distress
Birth-arks, with sweet love’s purse ;
Give talismans of cleanliness
To surgeon and to nurse.
I taught the chemist how to find
The molv that would ease
The pang that Nature’s code unkind
For yearning dame decrees.
Though man forgets that e’er I was,
Nor worships at my fane,
No whit my painful care withdraws
From Birth or its domain.
Whate’er religion Higher Power
Bids growing man obey,
The Silent Juno guards the bower
Of Motherhood for aye.
PIC.
BEKNARD O’DOWD.
In the Italian Alps.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rnHE little town of Carmagnole, between
Savona and Turin, would be forgotten by
the inquisitive stranger but for the fact
that for many scores of years it provided Northern
Europe with its street singers. It is the only real,
original, genuine manufactory of the organ-grind-
ing Savoyard. It provided Paris with almost all
its street singers in the eighteenth century.
Rouget de Lisle, with his wonderfully lucky
hymn of “ The Marseillaise,” made the success of
the Revolution possible. The Italians in Paris
piped the tune for the dance when it was most
frenetic—so is tha,t tune named the “Carmag-
nole even unto this day. But the time between
trains is enough for Carmagnole ; and late on the
same day we sped through the flooded rice fields
1 q’ ovara ’ a town with a'-cathedral and many
churches beyond its importance, as is usual in
Italy.
There was a man waiting for me, with the usual
mine, at Ornovasso, so I left Novara in the dusk—
the sky a light turquoise, the sunset pink, the
Alps steel-blue, and looking at this distance like a
cross-cut saw—its alternate teeth badly broken;
and the night promising to baa night of stars.
<* n? , 7’, w „ con flucts at Ornovasso the usual
Hotel of the Star of Italy, ” has a name and de-
scription almost as long as the statement of an Aus-
tralian Governor’s titles andfunctionsin a Gazette
notice ‘ Sassi Guiseppina Vedova Ronchi, Pro-
prietana, looks very imposing on a signboard,
but the contrast between the name and its owner—
a pale, sorrow-worn woman who made rue a coek-a-
doodle broth of eggs, milk and niarsala and
brought it to my bed—was precipitous.
Ornovasso next morning showed a collection of
white houses in a valley dominated by many
church towers and surrounded by the lowering
mountains of the Alps. Marking the winding
roads and beetling far-off cliffs were churches and
convents and monasteries and shrines. In that
period, when the hermit business was booming,
every rock and rill in Italy had its hermit, although
only the memories of a few thousand of the best-
advertised ones have survived. Wherever a hermit
had his rock and the combination proved success-
ful, up rose a church. God knows what collective
effort, hunger and penury these unnecessary
prayer-works represent.
Milparinka I thought to be a land of no trees—
so also is the stretch on the Patsy’s Springs side
of Umberatana and the Old Man Plain; but
Northern Italy has deforested itself with a ven-
geance. Through these Alpine communes the
telegraph “posts” are thin flakes of granite
20ft. high.
Between the infinite line of monoliths came a
cart driven by a woman and drawn by a young
bull and his mother. The cart was manure-laden,
and a baby sat on the apex of the pyramid and
laughed in very joy of living. Nine school-boys,
clean of eye and dirty of nose, followed, open-
mouthed, a shabby man, carrying a banner covered
with crude paintings showing some hair-raising
miracles in the act of performance by a corpulent
saint. The saint’s portrait filled the centre. The
dirty gonfaloniere and his mate, both Neapolitans
by their accent, stopped in the little market-
place among small hills of leeks, lemons, garlic,
pansies, and rosemary, and the gonfaloniere
began to sing the doings of the saint, while his
fellow miscreant played some fearsome accom-
paniments on an instrument of torture, falsely
called an accordion.
There was little applause and few halfpence for
the saintly narrative. So Signore Gonfaloniere,
the accommodating, reversed his banner, and dis-
played illustrations of a drama of jealousy and
adultery and murder, and then sang fifteen
verses descriptive of the pictures, with much
superabundant detail. That failing to move the
audience, he sang an endless song of the man who
sold his wife for one franc fifty, and the childlike
people immediately burst into great laughter.
After listening to his song for twenty minutes,
and discovering that the troubadour was only at
his “ firstly,” I decided to leave him and find my
guide to the nickel mines.
These northern towns are much cleaner than
those of the far south—the poorest town has its
official scavenger. He of Ornovasso was a lunatic
creature. It was like a cutting from a city of the
middle ages that had been preserved through all
the centuries—a Velasquez picture suddenly
vivified—to see that shambling cretin, planti-
grade as a bear, talking earnestly with three
dwarfs in the shadow of the church.
He and the dwarfs were debating the serious
question of the ownership of the horse manure,
which the cretin gathered with a little spade-and
broom. His official status was emphasised by
his official cap—a-fine brass-mounted thing, good
enough for a Salvation Army colonel; but except
for that badge of office he was in indecent rags.
I went to, see the mines—the usual kind of
mines. After much exploring of old and half-
collapsed galleries, they brought me to a steep
place on the mountains where rock of about
two tons weight was being guarded with im-
pressive respect.
While they prepared the shots I lay on the
heather—a cross between grass and that harsh
sea herb that grows on Australian coasts, with a
suggestion of saltbush thrown in. This heather
has invaded all the old ore-sorting floors, and is
mercifully covering up all the scars of mining.
With it grows the Violette di Monte—a mis-
leading name, seeing that it: has pink flowers and
daisy leaves, and is used by the mountaineers as
tea.
Seen from where I lay, the villages dotted the
mountain every half-mile. The poor, old, weary
earth seemed as if it had not an acre free from
man. I never knew that the earth was so crowded
until I had experience of the Old World.
The holes were drilled, but the boy with the
powder-can was far down the mountain, and the
corporal. Cerini, shouted to hurry him, hurling at
him insults that deepened as the boy ascended.
“ Briganti ! Ladrp ! a-a-a—son of beesh.”
“Ha ! ” said I. “You speak English ? ”
“Si Signore—pocco, pocco. For tenna year I
am in Inghilterra. After that, lam caporale in
Lac Superiore mines in America. I come-a back
to Italie with monna ; quasi-ricco, Signore. In
this countra I lose-a all my monna, per Dio. I
ritorno America —I have-a nothing friends;
perche, when no monna is there cannot be the
friend. So I come-a back here to the mounts .. .
Ah ! briganti ! Ah ! Cretino ! Ah ! Forno di
Dio ! ”
The boy arrived with the powder-can, but there
was not enough paper for a cartridge. It hap-
pened that, on the preceding night, I had written
the beginning of a shrieky poem on a thin straw-
board, and this I gave them. They made the
cartridges and prepared to boggle" the shots,
lighted the fuses, screamed warnings, and fell
over each other as if the cartridges were likely to
pursue them.
We waited, and by-and-bye the cartridge made
of the top portion of the strawboard—the por-
tion that bore my Olympian verse—fired, and
blew the poem heavenward. The other shots re-
fused duty, but the result of the one shot was
enough. Oh, Lord ! a good mine is rarer than an
honest man.
There was a Titanic gorge and a little mountain
torrent gently spraying it. We lunched on a rock
20ft. square that sprawled at the edge of a fall,
and looked down the gorge to the Noah’s Ark
houses in the valley below and to the frowning
Alps above. A dozen bare-footed tawdrily-
dressed peasant girls—laden with rotten chestnut
leaves of last year to be used for this year’s
manure, in great baskets that were swung from
their shoulders and descended to below their hips
and towered high above their heads —clambered
up the gorge, singing shrilly.
I can never cease wondering at all this madness
of effort. During the autumn they carry the
leaves down the mountain to rot, and in the
spring they bring them up again, bearing the
awful burdens up mountains steep as ladders, and
composed exclusively of rolling boulders. Seen
from behind, their progression with these
enormous baskets is strangely reminiscent of the
walking attempts of a crippled crab, as the baskets
rest on the bearers’ buttocks, and shorten their
steps.
I could detect in their unmusical chant the
■beginning of the yodel; and I thanked God I was
inot'yet deep enough into the mountains tb hear
that vocal atrocity at its worst. So here were the
Alps and there the happy peasantry carrying
soul-destroying burdens of manure. I could write
the book of an Alpine opera now ; but if I
omitted the dirt and poverty and the foolish
endeavor and the manure there would be no
libretto left.
RANDORIAN BEDFORD.


GUTS, BRUISES,
And all Superficial Injuries.
ZAM-BUK BALM IS INVALUABLE.
Week in, week out, there is the ever-present risk of accident at home
as well as in the workshop. Hence it is necessary to have Zam-Buk handy
for the safe and speedy healing of every kind of superficial injury. Zam-
Buk makes new, healthy skin grow
over a wound. Directly it is applied,
a process of healing is set up which
resembles a builder putting up row
after row of new houses. An in-
jury smeared over with the Balm
loses its fire, and does not have the
chance to fester. Both as an anti-
septic and healer Zam-Buk is totally
different from, and superior to, all
ordinary ointments, salves and em-
brocations. Every home needs its
pot of Zam-Buk.
Mr. R. H. S. Thompson, Head
Goods-slied Porter at Wagga Wagga,
N.S.W., says :—“ I have derived much
benefit from the use of Zam-Buk Balm.
During my occupation I am constantly
getting my hands knocked and cut
about, and I assure you Zam-Buk comes
in very handy. It seems to act like
magic on cuts and bruises, and quickly
heals them up. I find Zam-Buk very
beneficial for chilblains also. My chil-
dren suffered very much with them last
winter, and, although I tried several
remedies, I found nothing to compare
with Zam-Buk. This Balm applied properly very soon takes away the burning and
irritation. I recommend Zam-Buk strongly, and no home should be without it.”
c
ZAM-BUK is a SPEEDY CURE for PILES, ECZEMA, BOILS, RUNNING SORES, SORE
LEGS, RINGWORM, BAROOO, &c. As an EMBROCATION for STRAINED MUSCLES and
TENDONS, ZAM-BUK, rubbed well into the parts affected, is UNEQUALLED. As a HOUSE-
HOLD BALM for CUTS, BURNS, BRUISES, SORES, BLACKHEADS and PIMPLES, ZAM-BUK
is INVALUABLE. Obtainable from all Stores and Medicine Vendors at 1/6, or 3/6 Large Family
Pot (containing nearly four times the 1/6), or direct from The Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt-st., Sydney.
fam-Ruk
9
qd/dAmk) ■fir'
d^-dm.
il/J/Zm'lcJl'
mddzM fomzM d
■d fife dda/zed.
A “Sidestepper.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A BOTTLE of stout, a small lobster,
and the evening paper hung about the
anatomy of a well-known citizen, of
portly*jgure and sporting proclivities, on Satur-
day night. He was waiting for the tram.
“Think Bill ’ll lick the nigger?” said the
tramguard to him, as ho swung into the front
car, chewing the wrong end of a cheroot and
filling the compartment with smoke in defiance
of several bylaws. “ He’s a game ’un, eh ?
Wants to meet him on the grass with bare ’uns.”
Later on, the driver expressed some vigorous
opinions as to the fate of Mister Johnson when
“Bill passed him one with the right! Them
darkies all has a white streak,” he said, “and
Bill’s the boy to find it. He’ll duck clear of his
straight lead, short hook him with the left in the
bellows, and cross him on the jaw with the right.
Won’t last arf a round.”
The citizen stepped carefully off at Suburbania,
and walked slowly homeward, keeping most of
the way on the narrow track of asphalt laid on
the footway by a bankrupt council.
“ It’ll be a ’ell of a go with them there pugs,”
said the local policeman, confidentially, as he
helped undo the patent latch, designed to keep
the lastborn from wandering afield. “A ’ell of a
go. I’d give a quid to see it.”
“ Well worth it ” was the tired man’s comment
as he held the keyhole steady with the left and
inserted the key with the right.
He had a couple of glasses of stout, the best
part of the lobster, and a glance at the papers be-
fore bed. “ Oh, lor,” he cried, “ they here again.
Big type. ‘ Ween puts up a thousand.’ ‘ Bill
WILL NEVER SIDESTEP.’ ‘BRENNAN SAYS THEY’LL
eight.’ ‘ The savings of a lifetime.’ 4 Called
him a gut. ’ ” He dozed off to sleep half-way
down a column of bloodthirsty threats to a man
000 miles away.
The encounter with his wife, as she drove him
to bed, was just as wordy as the pugilists’ chal-
lenges ; and at last he settled down comfortably
in the sheets and dreamt.
* * +. *
He was in a chair—semi-nude. Big, brawny-
muscled men were on either side of him, whisper-
ing advice. Another close-cropped, cross-eyed
individual, whose nose bore witness to many
pugilistic encounters, laced his boxing gloves on.
The air was full of smoke and profanity. In the
opposite corner of the square ring with the ropes
and padded posts was a large colored man with
glistening shoulders and tremendous arms.
“ That’s the coon, isit ? ” he thought. “ Where’s
the way out ?”
A stout Jewish gentleman was calling him, and,
pushing his way past Larry Foley, Harry Beckett
and Bill Corbett, he spoke. “You’re on 500 to
nothing,” he said ; “ sling him out quick.”
Men in evening dress sat at the ring-side,
others in coal-heaving dress behind them.
The referee was talking to him. “Hit one
hand free,” he said. “Fair go. No fouling, or
I’ll out you.”
Then the official stepped across to Johnsbn.
Again he looked for the way out, but his seconds
were rubbing his arms, and offering confident
opinions as to the rapidity with which he’d lick
the qualified coon.
He wondered what it felt like to be “ outed ” ;
had a vision of a big black fist smashing into his
face, a rocket-like kind of lift skywards, a thud
on the padded linoleum, stars, a roar as of distant
breakers, a buzzing noise far off, the voice of the
timekeeper—“seven—eight—nine”—and, tower-
ing above, the giant proportions of a herculean
negro with blood-lustful eyes fixed on him.
“ Shake hands,” said the referee. His seconds
pulled his chair away, and he found himself walk-
ing across the ring diagonally to meet his
opponent. For the first time he became conscious
of the fact that the negro wore the Stars and
Stripes around his waist.
Their hands touched lightly. “Now for the
crash,” he thought; then, with a flash of determi-
nation—“ I’ll fight him ! ”
“ Step back ! ” An almost imperceptible pause,
and, imperatively, “ Fight on.”
Like a flash he wheeled —smashed wildly with
his left hand at the blackfellow’s solar plexus,
felt the tingle in his wrist and forearm as the fist
struck solid man, felt the wind from the other’s
glove as it swept with hurricane force over his
shoulder. A setting of the teeth, a stiffening of
the muscles, and his right, swung with all the
desperation of terror, jarred suddenly as it made
contact with the jaw, and over went his opponent.
He was two men at once—one with set face and
fire-lit eyes, standing almost over his fallen foe,
the surge of battle in his ears, the joy of victory
in his heart, anxious almost for the limp limbs to
stiffen and the man to struggle to his feet to meet
another smash ; the other man cowed, trembling,
a burning, sinking sensation in the pit of his
stomach, fearful in every fibre of his being lest
this murderous black should rise and smite him
into insensibility, angered almost to the point of
madness at the stolid slowness with which the
timekeeper called the seconds.
“Nine —ten—out,” and, limp and wondering,
he was led by his seconds to his chair, amid a
storm of shrieks, yells and hoots. The black was
still prostrate.
They sprayed water on his face, unlaced his
gloves, and, with practised speed, bound his
swelling wrists.
Suddenly there was silence—almost appalling
silence. Then a storm of cheering as a tweed-
clad figure stepped lightly into the ring and held
up his hand.
It was Bill Squires. Wren rose from his chair
and called Bill to the ringside, and spoke earnestly.
Then Squires returned to the ring centre, and there
was silence again.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “ I challenge the winner
for £5OOO, the fight to take place in Melbourne
within 43 hours, as I am under contract to meet
the champion of Patagonia at Terra del Fuego,
and Mr. Wren won’t let me off. Stuff up or shut
up.” r
When the roar of cheering that followed had
subsided, the dreamer felt himself conducted to
the centre of the ring. He was only one man
now, and that the scared one.
“Gentlemen,” he said, “I sidestep. I draw
he color line. I wouldn’t fight a white man like
myself, but anything dusky I’ll lash at.”
Through the ropes stepped ebony-colored Peter
Felix. There was a rush of seconds to the ring
centre. With right and left he struck out wildly.
There was a peculiar sensation as of falling, and
crash went his head on the floor.
A second later he blinked blear-eyed at a white-
robed figure and a flickering candle.
“ William Charles,” said his wife, “if ever you
strike me like that again, and throw yourself out
of bed yelling like a madman, I’ll go home to
mother.”
G. W. W.
The Younger Son.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HIS legs were cased in baggy pants, and he
wore a huge topee,
And his checked and belted riding coat
was a fearsome thing to see. i
When he spoke to us of his high-born House, to
say him nay were none ;
But we listened with breath and voices hushed to
the words of the Younger Son.
No hauteur marred the proper pride of Augustus
Smytheson-Browne,
For he’d drink with us till the sun rose up frotti'
the time that the sun went down ;
And he showed us notes in the lordly hand of the
Earl of Ragan bone,
Till we seemed to know his noble sire as well as
we knew our own.
’Twas a playful frolic of Smytheson-Browne and
a fair but giddy girl
That raised a flame of parental ire in the breast of
the noble Earl;
So he shipped S.-B. (who told us so) on these poor
and flimsy grounds,
To learn what he might of stockmen’s ways with
a bare five thousand pounds.
We were as brothers to Smytheson-Browne, but
the light of our friendly smile
Was the veil that covered, I blush to say, the
depths of a serpent guile ;
For it seemed to us that a cool five thou, was
there to be lightly won,
For here was a buyer the Lord had sent to the
owners of Brolga run.
We had warred for years, Dick Briggs and I,
with the forces of Death and Drought
That dog the steps of the luckless wights who
squat in the Furthest Out;
And our fancy roamed to the sea-kissed coast and
the long-lost joys of town,
And we yearned with a lust that was fierce and
hot for the shekels of Smytheson-Browne.
Briggs found a lake, where the last month’s storm
had filled the claypan flat—
That it never had failed in the ken of man, he
swore by his father’s hat.
On the mongrel scrubbers that stocked the run
he let his fancy free,
For he graced them, out of the herd-book files,
with a yard-long pedigree.
Then he drove him out through plain and scrub,
and he spoke to the Younger Son,
And he lied with the vim of a mine expert of the
beauties of Brolga run.
He pointed out how the cattle throve on the
leaves of the sandal shrub,
And waxed them fat on the tender shoots of the
toothsome mallee scrub.
And never a thought had Smytheson-Browne of
snare or trap or wile,
But he placed himself in our eager hands with a
soft and a trusting smile.
He drew a cheque for a thousand pounds, and he
gave us his note-of-hand
To pay the balance to Briggs and Co. on the day
of their due demand.
Then he borrowed a horse (the best we had) to
carry him on to Cue ;
He’d tarry a week in town, he said, to put the
transfer through.
We cashed his cheque for twenty pounds, and
our hearts were blythe and gay
As we clasped his hand and said good-bye, and
he hied him on his way.
But since that day, when our guest fared forth,
we have carried the brand of care,
And the careless trust of our youthful days is
damaged beyond repair.
We have searched for him in the trackless bush,
we have sought in the crowded town,
But never a trace has our quest brought forth of
Augustus Smytheson-Browne.
When his cheques came back (and “ No account ”
was the legend grim they bore),
We looked on man as a thing accursed, and bad
to the inmost core,
And we loudly voiced our ardent hope that
Gehenna would gain its own,
When its fire-bars held the alleged son of the Earl
of Raganbone.
If ever a youth with a soulful eye and a cul-
tured Oxford drawl,
And baggy pants, and a loud-checked coat should
give us a friendly call,
We trust his peace with the world is made; for
his father will lack a son,
If such a one as above described should venture
to Brolga run.
S.A.
DEXTER.


Had no appetite, and could not sleep. Read what
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla did for Mr. Marsden, whose
portrait and letter we publish below:
“I was in a very weak condition, had
no appetite, and could not sleep. After
trying several so-called cures, I began
with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and it did me
so much good that J took, in all, ten
bottles. It was the cheapest in the end,
as it cured me entirely. 1 now make it
a practise to take three or four bottles
during the year, and it keeps me in good
working order. I can honestly recom-
mend it to other like sufferers, as I feel
sure it will cure them as it did me.”—
Horace Marsden, Adelaide, S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla has been
tried and tested in every way;
and there is nothing like using an old, reliable, and effective
medicine. Intelligent people do not like to experiment.
It is too dangerous. Unknown and untried medicines
often work more serious results than the disease. When
you need a Sarsaparilla, get “ AYER’S,” for it is the old-
est, strongest and best Sarsaparilla you can bpy. Hold
fast to the kind that has been tested for 60 years. For
purifying the blood, strengthening the digestion, and brac-
ing up the whole nervous system, use
AYER’S S arsaparilla
Purifies the Blood. Builds up the System.
Prepared by DR. J. O. AYER & CO.» Dowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
Ayer's Pills are liver pills. They cure constipation, biliousness.
F
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladles’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we,
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
S'
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
\tYf*
mr
m
n
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to each per-
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper
T■ J. Daley’s ‘‘ At Dawn and Dusk, ” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
O* R K CO R
?
tS
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DE3ILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Kale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney,
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you ribt more than TWENTY -FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elisabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUSNESS
DOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman Having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SELF-CURE, will
forward the same, tree of charge, to any-
one interested#
Address: A.MINER, G.P.O.,SYDNEY.
a
\!
v\
%
A
sss*
EECHAMS
FILLS
r erence.
Women Everywhere suffer from Sick Headaches, Low Spirits, Loss of Energy, Nervous D3 T spepsia, and many
'wiiiim ft ■'--1 m mi other distressing complaints that so undermine the health as to make life miserable.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
SOLD EVERYWHERE IN BOXES,
Price ICt*., Is. U_l. and 2s. 9d. W*
have saved from untold suffering thousands who had
tried other medicines without avail, and had almost
given tfiemselves up to despair. Let eery woman on
the first sign of indisposition take a dose of this famous
medicine and she will find they will “make all the
difference,” restoring perfect health and vigor.
If Yota wisH to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your .• •
Rabbit skins,
FUR SKINS, and BUTCHERS' PRODUCE
TO ———
HILL, CLARK <& CO.,
SYDNEY.
—-or to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 4.3
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the name
SS2S»bb«se
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Cold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In 15ct. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
men
"Omen
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 600 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on 11 Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Note Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D. , House, ” fsf EUzabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. - HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


OILSKINS
For Yachting, Fishing, Camping, &c.
“Oilclad” Brand (Single through) .. 10/6
“Titan” Brand (Double through) .. 12/6
‘ Dugong ” Brand (Double through),
extra light 17 / 6
Sou’-Westers 1/ a
(Black or Yellow).
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES ON BEQUEST.
Perdriau Rubber Co.,
270 fiteorge Street, Sydney.
Ltd.
ERIMAHLTS INDIAN RMFITFS
. emx ”WS2
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
t.
PLATE
'"«RK.
©OOOO
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Abb
»VOLF
J i
or
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
NyPNOTISM.
A-NYONIi can learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
cui ing diseases and bad ha.bits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions ; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
„SI ir [ \ t( : rusfccd ' write for the book entitled,
Ihe beienfrific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent ifbsolutlly Free,
buceess Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St, Sydney, Aus.
<!
(mam
h-QCi
I ■ 1
Xhe above cut illustrates tbe LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Bneumabic Hammer Rock Brill for
Mines or Quarries, fc 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consumirifr about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART -Strictly ONE* MAN Rock Drills, *
ACENTS:
W. & J. LSMPRIERE
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST„ MELBOURN
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNn/ES
are the
BEST.
by
all first
class*stores
in Australasia.
Sol
No. 8176 J 2-BLADE
“PAMPA,”
* Cocoa Handle 1/6
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle » • - 2 6
PARKE
LA
&
Ltd.,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
MINING MACHINERY, STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
AGENTS FOE
NORTON EMERY WHEEL COMPANY,
WORCESTER , MASS.
WRITE FOR PRICES
AND PARTICULARS
MARSHALL’S,
R. L. SCRUTTON & CO.»
97 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY,
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s and Machinery Merchants.
— VE — STOCK SOLE AGENTS— ”
Marshall’s Portable, Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge Engines and Boilers.
SNOW Duplex Steam Pumps & Fittings,
Pulleys—Cast, W.L, Wood, Shafting, Hangers, &c., Gun Metal Fittings,
Valves, Lubricators, &c., Iron— Bar, Bod, Plate, Steel Wheels, Pipe ind
Fittings, Engineers’ Tools, and Importers of all Steam Users
Requiremc* is. Correspondence Invited.
Motor Car
Tyres^
(
JJ
/VWe *>y THE
Silverteuin Rubber go.
large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
k
ire
S 3
The Cheapest Way to Remove
Trees and Stumps is by using
EASY TO TRANSPORT.
SIMPLE AND SAFE TO USE.
PULL PARTICULARS
ON APPLICATION.
IPLE BOX can be
N. GUTHRIDGR, Ltd., S ° LE Munmcnmu,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ,
