

1
o
w
il£43
Brni
l Tß ir, "jLu
Jtm**
Mining
Gr. «S£ CO.,
107 Kent street:, Sydney,
—FOE— _ . .
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
MCLAREN COMPOUND
BTEAM TRACTION ENCIN
HOBART.
ms
(jadley’s Orient fjotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ud., 117 York St., Sydney
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., 7 Bent St., Sydney, N.S.W.,
Hold Large Stocks
of McLaren Com-
TRACTION ENGINES
Send for
ILLUSTRATED
DESCRIPTIVE
LISTS.
For General HAULAGE, CLEARING LAND, DRIVING PUMPS, SEPARATORS, CHAFF CUTTERS, SHEEP
SHEARING MACHINES, PLOUGHING BY D.RECT TRACTION, <&c., <&c.
fghdfgh
"Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand jsJvCON
CHUBBS
STRONG ROOM
dfgda
7laticnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF M.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital £2,000,000.
. ' 7 •
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South WaSes Branch:
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society). w A GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted. ~9JS
cal t
u
DECIDE NOW
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
, Manager.
BLNSDORPS
fgdhdfhfdg
4
is the Queen of all Cocoas
FOI^
Arom^strer\gtKt-Puritjc
Wunderlich
all GENUINE WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
BEAR THIS TRADE MARK.
fghfdghf
viP E/?
hgfdhfgd
Metal Ceilings.
LOOK FOR THE TRADE MARK.
hfghfgd
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Geelong, Victoria.
Also larg'est makers in Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-Making Machinery.
LJCI inr>M QPA Absolutely the BEST TABLE WATER.
The Bulletin
To], 28,—N0. 1414.]
[Thursday. March 14, 1907.
•Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd..
71 CASTLEREACH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Laughlin, Industrial America, 7s Cd, post Bd.
Hyatt, Pocket George Eliot, 2s fid cloth, 3s 6d leather,
post 3d. Lodge, Sir ()., Elefctrons, 7s 6d, postage 6d.
Henry Ji .nes, The American Scene, 7s Cd, post Sd.
Addison, The Art of the Dresden Gallery,illus., 7s 6d, p. 6d.
Mitchells, Structure and Growth of the Mind, 12s, p. 3d.
Stirling, Ooldnialsdn South Africa, 12s, post Bd.
Meakin, Life of an Empire, 7s 6d, post Cd.
Alfred East, Landscape Painting in Oil, colored illus.,
12s Cd, po?t lOd.
The Buskin Reader, cheap edition, Is 3d, post 3d.
Pa.vn, Tennis Topics and Tactics, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Lafeadio Hearn, Japan : an Interpretation, 10s 6d b. Bd.
King', Rational Living': Some Practical Inference's from
Modern Psychology, (is, post 6d.
Meyer, Municipal Ownership in Great Britain, 8s p 9d
Walker, Modern Medicine for the Home, 2s Cd, post 6d ’
Sea Songs and Ballads, seleobed bv C. Stone, 3s, p. 6d
Electric Ignition for Motor Vehicles, 2s posted.
Jarrdtt, Ten Years of Motorsand Motor Racing., 15s, p. 9d,
'T'HE BOOKFELLOW, an Australasian weekly maga-
* zine, published every Thursday, price 3d. 12s. a
year post-free. Poetry, stories, reviews, pictures, prize
competitions. Specimen copy f»ee from A. G. Stephens,
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
G.\AVJDSor/
Sold by Chemists. Tins, is. 6d.
The Great Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Sta.ita.ble fox* old and young.
The Lancet “ Proved to be as effective, bacterieidallv,
as is Creosote.
The Austra/as\\an Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections o/ the''voice and throat.’’
The Practitioner \ “Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
awl similar ailments.”'
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent
vicn,
j Street,
London.
THE RED PAGE
ASTUDY IN TWO DMENSTONS.
IN the review of the life of Lafcadio
Hearn, given in 4asi issue, mention of
perhaps the most important fact in
relation to that authorI—the 1 —the peculiar
character of his eyesight—was postponed as
needing separate discussion. Hearn had the
misfortune, by an accident early in life, to
lose the sight of one eye. This loss was not
only a disfigurement which disastrously re-
acted on Hearne’s temperament —he would
never be photographed, except in profile or
with one hand shading what he considered a
terrible mutilation ; it attained an enormous
significance, owing to the fact that his other
eye, due to its extreme shortness of sight,
was practically useless for all ordinary
purposes of vision. While this myopia
affected the whole course of his life,
it is in relation to his literary work,
his artistic outlook, that it assumes its pre-
ponderating importance. Hearn’s work may
practically be said to have taken its unique
character from his defective vision : his art
was the slave of his defect.
In Elizabeth Bisland’s Life and Letters of
Lafcadio Hearn (Constable, per Sydney Book
Club), there are many references to his eye-
sight ; but for an interpretation of its full
import we must turn to another source. In
an article that appeared in an American
and an English magazine last year;, Dr.
George M. Gould pathologically treats
Hearn’s peculiar genius ; and from internal
evidence in Hearn’s letters the oculist’s
startling conclusions seem to be fully sub-
stantiated.
Hearn (Dr. Gould writes) was indeed nearly
blind, but physically he never suffered a minute
from this cause—and yet his choice of subjects
and methods of literary workmanship, and every
line he wrote, were dictated and ruled by his
defect of vision. . . In the L ind of the Nowhere
Hearn was compelled to reside, and it was neces-
sarily a land of color and fecho, not one of form.
Dr. Gould states that Hearn’s one eye
“ had about 25 diopters of myopia.” Conse-
quently he knew little about the appearance
of objects even a few feet away. In writing
he was compelled to place the paper or pen
point about three inches from his eye.
With the proper lens it was possible to give
him vision of distant objects about one-third
as clear as that of normal eyes. Dr. Gould
found that Hearn did not wish to see with
even this wretched indistinctness, and that
he would not think of using spectacles or
eye-glasses.
I am almost sure (says Gould) that the reason
for this preference for a world almost unseen, or
seen only in colors, while form and outline Were
almost unknown, was never conscious with Hearn.
And Hearn, in one of his letters in Eliza-
beth Bisland’s volume, unconsciously con-
firms this diagnosis.
Another queer thing is my absolute ignorance
of reiilities. Always having lived in hopes and
imaginations. ... I know nothing but sensations
and books.
This deprivation was, in Dr. Gould’s
opinion, more than usually pathetic, owing
to Hearn’s predelietion for the romantic ;
and Life sternly refused him the materials
which he required for his work. He had
never in his life “ any personal happiness,
romance, poetry, or satisfaction which could
serve as the material of Hearn’s aesthetic
faculty.” By nature and necessity he was
shy almost beyond belief.
His adult life was passed without the poet’s
most necessary help of good vision. A most hazy
blur of colors Was all he perceived of objects
beyond a foot or two away. There was left for
him the memory of a world of forms as seen in
his childhood; but this fact throws into relief
the fact that it was a memory.. . . He therefore
chose to work over the imaginings of other
writers, and perforce of morbid ones. .. . Hearn
eared nothing for photos, etchings, etc. I never
saw him look at one with attention or interest.
Paintings were as useless to him as the natural
views themselves. He supplemented the defi-
ciencies of vision with a vivid imagination, a
perfect memory, and with a perfection of touch
which gave some sense of solidity and content,
and by hearing, that, echo-like, emphasised un-
reality ; but his world was essentially a two-
dimensional one. To add the comblc to his ocular
misfortunes, he had but one eye, and therefore
he had no stereoscopic vision, and hence almost
no perception of solidity, thickness, wr content,
except such as was gained t v the sense of touch,
memory, judgment, etc. The little glimpse of
sterepscopic qualities was made impossible by the
fact /of his enormous myopia, and furthet by
the comparative blindness to objects beyond a few
inches or a few feet away from the eye. Practi-
cally, the world beyond a few feet was not a
three-dimensional one ; it was colored, it is true,
and bewilderingly so ; but it was formless and
fiat, without much thickness or solidity, and
almost without perspective. .. . Except in boy-
hood he never, with any accuracy of expression
or life, saw a human face ; at the best he saw
faces only in the frozen photographs, and these
interested him little.
Thus it was that Hearn was forced to
become the poet of myopia; and from that
ghostly world of two dimensions—a mere
strangely decorated, inexplicably moving blur
of colors, a bewildering picture thrown on a
flat screen—he brought back more beauty
than many other equally endowed writers'
have been able to find in our commonplace
world of three dimensions.
It will be found, when we turn to consider
Hearn as a literary craftsman, that to his
defective vision is due that strange' charm,
that “ghostly shudder,” that inexpressible
weirdness which haunt every word he
wrote. Dr. Gould mentions that Hearn
could write only on yellow paper, and that
he, whose prose is so exquisitely and lovingly
wrought, had no love for metric or rhymed
poetry. It is impossible within the fixed
two dimensions of our page to give
examples of that prose, But the story of
this patient craftsman, as, hampered by
physical and temperamental disabilities, he
laboriously built up his beautiful, magical,
and perfect edifice of prose, will not be with-
out value to Australian ears. Hearn teaches
the extreme value of indefatigable labor on
the part of the literary craftsman.
From the first Hearn had the supreme
confidence in himself of the true artist.
I shall stick to my pedestal of faith in literary
possibilities (he laughingly wrote) like an
Bgyptiarq Colossus with a broken nose, seated
solemnly in the gloom of my own originality.
To various correspondents he detailed his
painstaking, but supremely successful,
method.
By quietly writing the thing over and over
again, I find the emotion, or idea, often develops
itself in the process—unconsciously. ... I shall
show you a page that I worked at for months
before the idea came clearly.
The only application Thave is that of persist-
ence in a small way. I write a rough sketch, and
labor it over and over again for half a year at
intervals of ten minutes’ leisure—sometimes I get
a day or two.
If you like anything I have done, it is because
I have taken horrible pains with it. Eight
months’ work on one sketch ; then eight months
on another—not yet finished ; but happily 120
pages are done ; and the first was only 75.
As for the Mountain of Skulls—yes ; I have
written it—about seven or eight timesover ; but
it still refuses to give the impression I feel
and can’t define. I shall try again later.
But when it comes to writing a durable thing,
every line ought to be written at least twice, if
possible, three times. Three times, at all events,
to commence with. First—roughly—in pencil ;
after which correct and re-shape as much as you
deem necessary. Then re-write clean in pencil.
Read again, and you will be surprised to find how
much improvement is possible. Then copy in
ink, anrl in the very act of copying new ideas of
grace, force and harmony will make themselves
manifest. Without this, I will venture to say,
fine literary execution is impossible.
Very few writers can perfect their work in
MS. ; they cannot see the color and line of it, till
it gets into type. ... It is by changes in the
printed form that the final effect is obtained.
Specimens of Hearn’s MS. fully con-
firm these glimpses at his method. He
writes one little sentence over and over
again, with change after change in the
rhythm, till at last the perfect form appears.
Finally, it may be pointed out that ’ this is
but one man’s method of working—a man
dreadfully handicapped, who set a nigh ideal
before him, and patiently strove towards it.
A writer may happily “dash off” a little
story ; but this artist in words had too great
a reverence for his material. It would be
curious to discover how many Australian
prose-writers even re-write their stories
once. We are an impatient people, per-
haps. ...
1 As The Lone Hand intends spending several
thousand pounds a year upon tin* artists and
writers of the'Commonwealth, it begins to appear
that another opening—an opening almost deep
enough to l>e a chasm—yawns for the encourage-
ment of local talent, 'l'hc Lone Hand is willing
to be the receptacle of illustrated articles, stories,
and verse; but all contributions should be up to
the standard of that magazine. That may be
approximately gauged by the first issue, which—
the editor cheerfully tells us—is confidently and
contentedly expected to be the very worst issue
The Lone Hand means ever to produce.
Can no t som eon e write a com m on-place no vel ? ”
ingenuously asks “ Nen.” “We constantly sorrow
with a heroine whose ways are.cast in the mys-
terious paths of life, and we laugh immoderately
at a man in all number of ridiculous and impos-
sible situations; but a book in which the life of
the people is not any funnier or sadder than that
of the average man or woman is a rarity nowa-
days. Is beauty as absolutely essential as it
seems m novels ? If the heroine is not really
beautiful in the first chapter, I know that later I
shall read that she has ‘a strange charui, a peculiar
fascination all her own.’ Commonplace women
cannot live in novels. If the man is not remark-
ably good-iooking, then he’s certain to be
‘ rugged, strong and masterful,’ and, should the
writer be a woman, she will endow him with some
loveable vices—women hate a man who is quite
without them—but they are sufe to be the very
vices that make a man attractive. He won’t have
any objectionable, unpicturesque faults. I feel
just now that I should welcome a book in which
t * l j k? ro was , an ordinary young man in glasses,
and the heroine studious and inclined to be
sandy.” [“Nen” has evidently confined her
reading to Boothby and Mrs. Williamson. There
are others. The truth is that no one is common-
place ; and the great novelist, talcing the most
bespectacled young man, or the sandiest woman,
will interest us in the soul beneath. Wells made
Kipps interesting, because every Kipps is inter-
esting.]
QUARGYM IN GUINN HOME
AU day he stoops toiling in tinkling shale,
Deep in the quarry's belly. And at eve
Hf groans erect and shoulders tools and walks ;
And corning from the grisly deeps he sees
Sharp crimson mountains marching as to rest,
hitched on the bronze of sunset. (He sau), too,
Whenas he left his home and workward plodded,
The new-forged morning scarlet on the anvil.)
No more he hacks ancl hews and piles the shale.
Large destinies, horizons infinite.
Run out before him. He will lean and stretch
"His hands out, seeking Laws ; bruises and shale
He leaves behind. “ Man and the gods ” — indeed,
Man and his yoke and driver, —what are they ?
A nobly stupid giant toiling in darkness
For evilly ivise gods throned in the upper air ?
Or a dull groaning beast in peaceful pastures
Beneath reclining gods on thy mu slopes
Who jest and doze, yet on their placid knees
Smooth with smooth hands our ra veiled destinies out 1
M.L.
SRNOLD WALL.
FACT'RT ANDS
Edward Dyson has done more than write
a humorous book ; he has given a remark-
able advertisement to Australia. When an
English author determines to “write up”
the Loudon slums, or an American journalist
invade the canned-query factories of Chicago,
he does not go there in a rollicking mood ;
he does not expect to find there anything
but misery, sordidness, pathos, and wasted
lives. But Dyson takes us with him jauntily
to the top flat of Spat's factory in Melbourne
and beamingly introduces us—-at a safe
distance—to his eighty “pasters.” Life is
not all monotony here ; these girls are happy,
boisterously rollicking, .even contented with
their life. Dyson has, of course, the merit
of being the literary Captain Cook of these
hitherto unexplored territories of indus-
trialism ; but the main merit is due to Aus-
tralia. A Melbourne factory, he makes it
appear, is not at all a factory in the East
End ; it has hardly any likeness to the
jungle of Chicago. There is probably some-
thing in Labor legislation, after all. For
the types Dyson has found among his
Fact’ry ’Ands (Geo. Robertson and Co.)
read real. They are voluble, raucous,
gestieulatory—the human animal (pre-
ponderatingly feminine) ; but at heart
they are happy and have a pride in their
work. If only that their noisy cheerfulness
should have enabled Dyson to write this
book, all the Labor legislation of the State
is justified. So far, this book is the best
thing that Turner, Isaacs and Trenwith have
done ; and Dyson is hereby, depite past
cavillings, awarded three-seventeenths of
that poor little hypothetical pension for
local literary effort. He has earned more
than that from any self-respecting Labor
administration.
As literature Dyson’s book stands high in
the order of humor. It may be classified
thus : — Order, humor ; family , lower classes C
genua, girl ; species , Australian; variety,
rollicking. In this series of. short stories,
to which Bulletin readers need no re-intro-
duction, Dyson has painted a very vivid
and faithful picture of the Australian
factory girl. True, there are men, of sorts,
in all the stories; but it is < the eighty
feminine “pasters” in the top-fiat who
supply the extremely frank chorus to the
mere incidents of the action. Love and
jealousy are the main-springs of the action,
as potent in the top flat as in the drawing-
room of life ; and Dyson, with the true
touch, allows us to see youthful and undis-
ciplined femininity with all the paint scraped
off. Let us consider that delightful and
wickedly true account of A Saturday at
Spat’s, where, in view of the half-holiday,
there was always a dress parade, and when
In the bitter rivalry of dress there were no
friendships. On this day the new hat was flashed
upon the factory like a smack in the face, the un-
expected frock shocked the Beauties with its
insolent beauty, the nine-carat brooch or the
glittering ring, set profusely with precious stones,
“quite as good as diamonds,” was displayed for
the first time with a disregard for the feelings
of others that was simply vindictive.
Dyson sapiently observes that “every
woman in an astonishing frock is at heart a
stage-manager ; ” and Kitty’s carefully-
arranged entrance was a success.
“Yah-h-h!” cried a derisive voice from a
distant board, “stick ’er in the bloomin’ winder,
’n’ give ther town er charnce ! ”
Kitty stiffened at once, her nose went up, and
she walked on with an increase Of dignity, but
not really displeased. That cry had come from
a stricken soul. It was really a tribute.
Poor Kitty’s triumph with “ the whole
of her new summer’s goods” was a fleeting
one; for Sis Twentyman, timing her lateness
with an instinct that was genius, came up
the stairs “profusely clad in pink silk,
billows and billows of it; ” and the sibilant
call of a silk underskirt stole through the
factory.
■ “ dash,’’cried Billy, address.
m 0 Beauties. ‘ You can all git orf ther
ea.i-th. I wenty man’s got yeh beat.” And Kittv
her brush clutched in her frozen hand, gazed kt
thus overwhelming spectacle,'her eyes wide her
mouth gaping, transfixed. It was a form of
paralysis, and she did not recover consciousness
tor three minutes.
One of the men airs his philosophy of
clothes.
■ Wimmin’s mostly clothes, and ther rest rings
an things. Mans what, he drinks; woman’s
what she wears. Size up this bunch. On ther
ordm’ry mornin’s in their seoon’ best baggui’
they re sort iv subdooct ’n’ moderate perlite.
Look at ther difference when they get inter ther
rags. Watch out fer Saturdees when ther latest
season’s goods is out fer the air ; V they’re ther
real pink, ’n’ yer wouldn’t touch ’em with er prop
if yer don’ V wan ter get it co.ci.
But there was still a belated arrival. Bell
Oliver, in her new blue blouse, coming up the
front stairs, radiant with expectation, smiling
a self-conscious smile, and blushing brightly"
was slowly made conscious that she was a
mere drapery aftermath. A quarfcer-of-an-
hour later the packer found her in the dress-
ing-room, seated behind a stack of straw-
boards, wearing her drab working apparel,
a little tub of paste between her feet, “weep-
ing like a wet day.”
“ Come, come ! ” he cried, with tremulous
valor. “Come, chme ! Out o’tins!”
“ Gar’n scratch!” retorted ttie young lady,
drearily.
So the action moves with the inevitable-
ness of a Greek drama toward the tragedy of
the torn dresses that were afterwards found
in the dressing-room. And there is a touch
of pathos in the excuse of poor Spotty
Corbet, the Salvation Army lass, “the
squat, sallow girl of about sixteen, sullen
and slovenly, who had a guilty secret—
“ when not observed, she oiled her greasy,
dark hair with the machine lubricators.”
“Y’ know yeh tore them skirts ” said the
packer. “ Why’d yeli do it?” '
Spotty dug a finger m her mouth, and squirmed
for a moment, and then her eyes gleamed and she
stood erect for a tine effort.
“ They was offensive in the sight of the Lord !”
she said. Then she collapsed again, her finger
went back into her mouth, she began to cry, and
kicking her old skirt out with her knee, she said,
with stupid bitterness, “’N’ mine is sich rags !”
In this collection of short stories few
reach the artistic level of that tragedy of
clothes ; but there are touches of. as true
observation and as real humor in many of
the others. The way that “Feathers” has
with the maids, when a hot day threatened to
send the whole hat-full of Beauties into
hysterics, must be also honorably mentioned.
The defect of the series is a tendency to
exaggeration in. the riotousness of the action;
but in a book of avowed humor this may be
forgiven. The Australian slang that the
Beauties speak causes us some speculation
as to how the book will be received in Eng-
land, where possibly the language -will prove
as difficult to penetrate as a iSomerset dialect
is to us. And, finally, brotherly love has
gone a little too far in allowing Will Dyson
to illustrate the book with such grotesques.
The humor was already there in the writing;
it was not necessary for Will Dyson to
attempt to superimpose a vague and some-
what incomprehensible humor of his own.
♦ —-—-
Already half the amount required to purchase
Lister Lister’s fine picture, “The Golden Splendor
of the Bush,” for the National Art Gallery,
Sydney, has been subscribed. Lister, being a
trustee of the Gallery, is, of course, debarred
from selling his work to that institution ; but
admirers of the painting decided to raise, by
public subscription, £l5O for its presentation
to the national collection. There should be little
difficulty in completing the purchase of this fine
Australian work. Subscriptions should be sent
to A. J. Daplyn, Vickery’s Chambers, 76 Pitt-
streef, Sydney.
According to an English review, this is how the
“ snippet papers” of London, which in aggre-
gate sell many million copies every week, manage
their “ fiction department.” The stories are, as a
rule, specially constructed for them. Not one
man writes the serial, but several. There is the
man who has the idea, another finds the plot;
another suggests scenes and characters, and the
“aqthor ” then weaves the literary web around
the framework at the rate of from one to two
guineas a thousand words. The pictures which
illustrate the story, or are used to advertise it, are
often prepared before the story is written. In
these cases, the story is written to, fit the
pictures; the pictures are not drawn to illus-
trate the story. No length is fixed for a serial
when it starts ; it may run two months or two
years ; everything depends on how it is affecting
the circulation. The author supplies the stuff by
the thousand words, just as if it were a piece m
cloth. When the purchaser thinks he has enough
of the material the salesman, who is the manu-
facturer, has to shut down, and get rid of his
characters as quickly as possible. The chief pur-
veyor of this literary slush is a newspaper pro-
prietor, who has been given a barony for his
services to journalism.


A WORLD CONDENSED IN A BOOR.
m
m
m
' ■
m
*»
j«: ...
ONE, THOUSAND PAGES of “ NOTED-GOOD-VALUES.”
Our New Illustrated Edition is going to press. Write immediately to secure
early copies. It will be to your advantage to mention “The Bulletin.”
SENT FREE! Cheapside, SYDNEY
The Bulletin
Til lIKSD.VY, MARCH It, 1007.


Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. Pnr- T st~ a
XT Ac* L f Assu ™trce on the Mutual Principle.
'tX.xi.E) MONEY TO LEND On s ecurity of Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C.P. (Combined! p. c i n ,„, . . C,ty or Sub| n'ban Properties, or on
D “ tawSi”-tS'iS.”™*/ a‘s ;■ w *»«M>«put y ‘oL™ ;
head opf,oe, » : *«=»™ T e ,«, : M, ° A ' o *'>*■
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
s Y D KT El Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKIN*? wnn>a m . T
are carefuKy attended to by our B ™Fhi?hh? EXPE WrS M , ARSUPIA I- SKINS
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best ad van t^? P^ RTS ’ + Q h ? pay speclal attention
.Exceptional facilities are offered by thi ConSanv WT^A°^ nt SaleS rendered Promptly.
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on^pplicati^ HEAT growers for free storage of
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
R MEMBER what a shock you got when you first realised that you had
developed a “ bald spot ”? Barber had no trouble inducing you to have
-3 f,° m halrsm S ed whei > "ext visited him? (The hair is not a tube,
erefore you wasted time and money there.) The shampoos you had
1 left the cause untouched, and the oils and greasy preparations you used
y ,el P ed t 0 smother the life from the delicate hair bulbs, and
actually fed the bacteria that was causing the trouble.
“ That Bald Spot ” still goes on growing larger and larger. Beginning to feel
bke resigning yourself to the inevitable ! Don’t re discouraged. Take a *ood
NESS 00 IS^Cmlr?? 0 "' 5 ' Any “down” there? Yes? YOUR BALD-
CURABLE. lam prepared to give you a written guarantee that
“ Capil/a ” will give you buck
your hair.
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
will force that “ down ” into strong, healthy
hair, or refund you the cost of the prepara-
tion. It’s a straightforward proposition
from a man who honestly believes in the
merits of his remedy, and who wants those
and buy a bottle of “ Capilla ”
and money by acting NOW.
who act on his advice to be nothing out of
pocket. It s a fair offer. Are you going to
avail yourself of it? STOP ! DON’T leave it
till to-morrow. Go to your chemist or store
TO-DAY, or write me NOW! You’ll save hair
posW A lS^„“ r co“l) ‘"tate 'i f “" <* « botttea
-RICHARDS, 131 Imperial Arcade! Sydney, N.S w ’ th ® inventor ’ W - OLIVER
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
otomach, Headanhe, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Bour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
The Physician’s «
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKING MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &o.,
to those who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking- Machine
reproduces Song's, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in any size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give awav
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our Life Vegetable Pills (Formula printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box, then remit us the 8/- received and we will promptly
S Thk’;!) °v extr f a ® x P ense or "' ork -the valuable premiums as
llf, ted. This is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
£lOO
a WeeK
Given
Away
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOEiT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of
&c
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS,
SPIRITS.
CORDIALS, &o.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POBT FREE.
hgfdh
Gloucester Roai.Souih Kervfmotorv, London SW.
THE MOST COMFORTABLE HOTEL IN LONDON
INCLUSIVE TERMS
FROM
12/6 PER DAY.
pal>
SELF-CONTAINED
SUITES. PLEASANT
PRIVATE GARDEN.
Nature’s Own Food
The concentrated
nourishment
of Fresh Milk
PLASMON
One ounce contains more food
value than a beef steah.
TRY
6^
OATS
COCOA
Go twice
as far as
any others
new club cartridges
The great popularity of New Club Cartridges has tempted other
makers to place on the market inferior cartridges of the same
brown color and general appearance. Accept no substitute .
New Club Cartridges are for sale by all dealers.
Union Metallic Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN., U. S. A.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE!
STA TES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy ,
RETAIL s A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt
Ash St., Sydney.
Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION.
SALT’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt* on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.-£m Capaule marked ENO’B 'FRUIT SALT;’ Without it you hare a
WORTHLBSS IMITATION.
ftnpvad only by J. G. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, LONDON, BNO.,
by J. c. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere .
<sm«tGr§ E cms
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorders
Iniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature ei
fdgh


Do not envy I
the beautiful!
hair of others,
but possess it
yourself. Some
are born with,
beautiful hair,
others acquire
it, but none
have it thrust
upon them.
Those who ac-
quire it do so,
for the most
part, by the
discovery that
there is a remedy for locks thinned
by disease, or which may have be-
come prematurely gray; and that
remedy is
raft
V
A'
/ v
1
V\
Mger’s
ytair Vigor
Have you lost your hair? It will
restore it. Has your hair faded or
turned gray? It will bring back the
color and gloss of youth. In brief,
there is no condition, short of abso-
lute destruction of the roots, in
which Ayer’s Hair Vigor will not
produce luxuriant hair.
Do not be deceived by cheap imita-
tions which will only disappoint you.
Make sure you get AYER’S Hair
Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
THE HIGH-CLASS WASHING MATERIAL
‘Viyelia’
fdhfdg
hfgd
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY AND
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
because
Durable.
From
Leading
Drapers.
The Queen says:—“ You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round.”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE SELVEDGE.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
n
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an- one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
inTiwc i nruTP wanted in each dis-
AGTIVt AbtNIo trict. Larce (profits
raailv made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine. i
MEAD GYCLE CO.. Dept.280 LIVERPOOL.
By
Royaij Warrant
Purveyors to
hfgd
His Majesty tbh
Kino and
Royal Family.
IP yOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
“ MAYFAIR”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
tis Replacing: All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
PURITY.
JOHN MOIR AND SON, LIHITED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
[1
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
o
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
■sas^s^Jsrau
george" bcFnnington
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
JSrSSA US M.B.W, — 263 George Street, Sydney
LIFE ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY
’ ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30 payable at ;6C I or Total
SPECIAL BENEFITS: (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result ol for Temporary Total Disablement;
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partia fc ’. an( j ( 6 ) £6 per week for incapacitation through
STOP!
“ There is only one Disease —
CONGESTION”
“ There is only one Cure —
CIRCULATION.”
THE . . .
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Don't Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is cTn uself yourself, and it
W ' Used everywhere „d hy over »0 phydctae,
NO DRUGS. NO PLASTERS. NO ELECTRICI XI •
WHAT DOCTORS SAY.—Our Vibrator is used and
endorsed by many thousand physicians of all schools
of medicine. No matter how much they may differ
in their opinions about drugs, they unite in agreeing
that the Vibrator is a truly scientific apparatus, sate
vet powerful, and of unquestioned efficacy in practi-
cally all diseased and disordered conditions. Dr.
Lemons says“ Your Vibrator received, and used
AND NOW, HOW ABOUT YOU? You need the
Vibrator in your family. Stop taking drugs, and let
Nature’s true principles of Stimulation by Vibration
cure you and yours. You will never regret the in-
vestment in a Vibrator. Apart from its wide range
of effectiveness, it is practically indestructible, has
no electricity, no wheels, no cogs or springs, and it
cannot get out of order.
w iSslr SsK; r ss
altogether 70/o. Üb± A tg w i nted in every town.) Australasian Agents-
THE COOPER DRUG CO., Pitt Street, Sydney.
A. ®> F
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE Q.UEEN.
Kotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd,
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co, 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels>
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Girl.
Our rendezvous is underneath the clocks.
I stroll along and wait,
Comparing points among the picnic flocks
That crowd the railway gate,
That fluster round in varied scares and shocks
When Jack or Flossie’s late.
I twig the styles, the smug air and the smile
Of each pair filing past;
The fool-look or the giddy smirk of guile
In which the face is cast.
It’s sport to take the scene in just awhile,
Till my girl comes at last.
Comes ?It is not the word. She coruscates,
She flashes right along,
She twinkles, sparkles, glows and gravitates
Towards me like a song—
A rush of sunlight through the Heavens’ gates—
The dazzler of the throng.
All eyes are on her. She’s a lovely sight—•
The cutest thing in town.
She’s got up for our Sunday spree m white,
With tints of oak-leaf brown.
I tell you that the kiddie is all right,
I’ve looked her up and down.
The fellows gape. They haven’t got a chance.
I saunter to my pet.
Exchange a greeting, and her eyes just dance
(Mine are not dull, you bet!),
Yet am I casual and I look askance,
As if not happy yet.
It’s just as well to flaunt demeanor calm,
The spree has not begun.
I buy the tickets, take the girlie’s arm,
Like any Adam’s son ;
And so we start along. Mind, there’s no harm
In all our joy and fun.
We’re only spoons. No marriage luxuries
On forty bob a week !
The screw just covers board and picnic sprees.
(It’s oft a narrow squeak.)
The Girl is mine. The Goddess, if you please !
What price my blessed cheek !
vio.
E. STONE.
The Cable-Ship.
She cleared the Customs at Singapore,
Her destination “ Blank,”
With a dip of her flag to the man-o’-war,
And a mile of line in her tank.
Her goal was a spot in the Tasman Sea,
That only the sextants show,
And she shook her head like a horse set free {
From tedious tasks, and slow.
Down where the fangs of the Barrier gleam
Snow-white ’neath the Queensland sun,
She hurried under a head of steam
On her long and urgent run.
The coastal steamers swinging past,
Scarcely a day from port,
Dipped the company’s flag at the mast
To her brief request, “ Report.”
The Union liner from Sydney Town,
Heading for Cape Farewell,
Saw her lights as the fog came down,
And heard her clanging bell,
And the moan of her whistle for long enough,
As she groped in the bed of the sea,
Saying, in accents hoarse and gruff,
“Ahoy ! Stand clear of me.”
Three hundred fathoms below her keel
Was a break in the copper bands,
And she lay to wallow, and pry and feel
For the drawn and fractured strands,
With the slow, resistless, lunging swell
Baulking her good intent,
Down where the great sea monsters dwell
Her groping fingers went.
First she lifted the end from La Perouse,
Then the line from Cable Bay,
And gladdened her heart with belated news
’Ere she went on her lonely way—
East or west, or south or north,
Where the slender cables lie,
To a spot that is only a fleck of froth,
With nothing to know it by.
In the midst of hurrying seas that leap,
She toils with her decks a-flood,
Prying down in the waters deep
Where the cable lies in the mud,
And steamers veer from a rigid course,
When, loud and angrily,
Her whistle hails them in accents hoarse :
“ Ahoy ! stand clear of me ! ”
MAOBILAND.
Will Lawson.
At Even.
When lamps above are lit, and lamps below,
When Night and Slumber, hand in hand,
Foot the long path that Nature’s finger draws
Across the sea, and thro’ the land,
I, wearied by the maze and whirr of life,
Its ceaseless clang, eternal grind,
With buzzing brain and heavy-lidded eyes,
Stretch forth my hand and draw the blind.
In some sad time, when Night will come to lodge
For ever in this fleshly frame,
When the dim light my soul hath burnt is dead,
And all of me that’s left—my name ;
When Death hath claimed me for a bedded spouse,
When tolling bells are married to the wind,
And, in the nuptial room, the candles burn—
Some other band will draw the blind.
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


hfgd
h
Miss KfcLLERMAI
[the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY’S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Say L\ lf raor f no uri*hing and sustaining than any other.”
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort
• ,_ A Perfect Food.”— Health,
Insist on getting CADBURY’S.
I 1
COLD STORAGE IN THE HOflE
m
HOUSEHOLD ...
K€ MACHINE.
T H E l°ss of perishable goods in the sultry Summer
Weather is always considerable, and in larg’e pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result; but this
would be unpraeticable on account of its expense. It costs
very little with a BRUNSWICK—J-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
Sole Agents
~ BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 £ 9 Market St., Sydney.
IJXKC' THAT MADC'
The MISSES ISAACS
l6l KING ST., SYDNEY
LADIES- PREMIER HAIRDRESSING &8F(»M e ATloNfSSteSttotatest
a^l
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION 7 & DREsf ONGROUND FLOOR.
*Sk
ON THE NOP!
,i S T Uperb librar y volume, handsomely printed
5 containing upwards of Three hundred
of Hop a ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
BFECIAL LIQUEUR
Scotch whisky
m.
W£
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OJR <5O VEARS.
NO CERTAINTY without
“RISKS OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
THE EXCEPTION.
FRANZ JOSEF LAGER BEER
ALL LEADING HOTELS.-*®
Pure and Wholesome.
By Royal
Warrant to
fgdh
His Majesty
The King.
BOVRIL
is guaranteed the product of the finest Ox Beef.
A small quantity of BOVRIL added to Soups, Curries, Stews, &c»
increases their nutritive value and improves their flavour.
Roofing the
Dixson
Tobacco Co.’s
Warehouse
with
RUBEROID
3
y
r
mmmm
■^x
msmsm
• . ■■'■■/ '
mmmxx
C-J.
txm
- -~~r
■ „ ___ * “' t * '***
m
WhUt the Bri *feh-AuBtra/asfan Tobacco Company, Ltd., think of
ftUBEROID ROOFING.
Messrs. E. RICH <fc CO., Ltd., % A 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
vas hid r nfarir"^° U m !ni be PleaSed t 0 kn ° W that our Ruberoid roof > which
+ 7 } 2 su hs ago, 1S givin S ever y satisfaction, and during this
time it has stood the test of some very heavy storms. Being flat with only
a few inches slope, the sun and rain must put it to a very severe g trial but up till
now it shows no sign of leak or break, and, considering its comparative small cost
is eminently satisfactory.—Yours faithfully,
THE BRITISH-AUSTRALASIAN TOBACCO CO. PROPTY., Ltd.
(Signed) W. 11. WICKS, Factory Manager.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1413.
THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 1907.
Price 6d.
Some extraordinary evidence has been
given during the hearing of the dispute
between the Firemen and Deck Hands*
Association and the Sydney Ferries,
Limited, of deck hands having got
married on £1 a week, £1 55., and so
on to £1 15s. ... The company did
not object to the men smoking In the
engine-room, but it objected to them
smoking amongst the passengers, or
sitting in their dirty clothes alongside
daintily-dressed ladies.
P’raps some of these one-pound-
fifteen-a-week matches are struck In the
ladles’ part of the boat. Who shall say I
But the dog may murder your neighbor
by inches through persistent howling,
and it will not cost you a penny.
"The law’s.a hass.”
“ If your dog bites a canvasser” (/.e.,
usually an abusive bottle-o-man with
a canvas bag), it will cost you £5
according to a recent decision in a
N.S.W. law court.
\o®‘ ,* o'
„ <>* °
IVV6 ” V
*e, 10 '**
N.S.W. Attorney-General Wade
says that he has not found politics
“a bed of roses.” No, a bed full of
broken bottles certainly cannot be
called ‘‘a bed of roses.”
Mr. Justice Simpson says that Judges
. live in a very rarified atmosphere in-
deed—an idea of which is rather feebly
conveyed in the above sketch
womS largely 11 cmKuTS. 3 th ‘" k “
n when h *
A JOB LOT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
‘'Australia for the Austral in ns.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Of ice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address fetters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and,, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub•
cishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing, with Australian sub jects, and not exceeding
tivo columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in nlacTe and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and,
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Messrs. It. A. Thompson & Co., 28 lliebeck Street, Cape-
town; The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal;
and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
The Clark Stuart Co. , Ltd., Vancouver, B. C.
San Francisco.— lF. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. — Brewer and Co., 22 Queen’s Road, Hong
Kong.
Shanghai. —Breiver and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x lhin.,
ivill be fonoarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MARCH 14, 1907.
THE DUBIOUS VARIETY OF
IMMIGRANT.
The fact that Australia wants more population—
that the natural increase isn’t building up the
nation fast enough in view of the growing dangers
that this isolated country has to face—has been
mentioned so often that to speak of it again
sounds like tedious repetition. The need of
population has become one of the matters which
are so universally accepted—just like sunrise, and
•dust, and the equator, and cockroaches—that
many people have ceased to think much about
•them. It is a dried subject, put away on a shelf
in the mind because it admits of no further argu-
ment. But there is still a section which is hust-
ling actively for new population, and if this sec-
tion doesn’t hustle too indiscriminately it may do
much good. The tendency to be indiscriminate
is one that often follows on enthusiasm,
and when we consider the kind of immigrants
that are sometimes suggested a doubt arises
whether the present enthusiasm may not be going
too far. It must be remembered in the first place,
that it is the question of defence, which, above
all others, makes a vigorous immigration policy
necessary to Australia. The natural increase of
population and the influx of desirable volun-
tary immigrants who come here without the
need of any glaring advertisement to attract
them, cover everything else. There is no
huge, red-hot haste to develop our mines;
the minerals will keep, and we are not
pledged to tear all the gold, silver, copper,
tin, and coal out of the entrails of the earth right
now, and leave nothing for posterity. Irrigation,
and the putting of new areas under crop, are
things that can go on gradually; population is
growing at a steady rate of 60,000 or so per
annum, and that increase will overtake all the
waste areas in time. The further bloating of our
cities need not be hurried; a great, bulgy
city is a thing to be achieved and bulged
by degrees. Even manufactures and the estab-
lishment of a large manufacturing population
might be allowed to take their own course after
a solid Protective tariff had given them the first
impetus. All these things could be left to their
natural development if we had a sound, reliable
guarantee of 1000 years of peace. There is no
proof that ten men will be any happier than two,
or that a thousand people must be more moral
and desirable than five. It is the risk of invasion
alone that makes the acquisition of more people a
matter of urgency.
* * m *
Under these conditions, the immigrants should
be up to a certain standard in three respects.
They should be of a race that we can assimilate
by intermarriage—people who will become White
Australian citizens, and look on Australia as their
home and the home of their children. Any other
class of people will merely be lodgers or boarders
in our midst, and no man ever shouldered a gun
in defence of a boarding-house, or humped a
bayonet—save as an adventurer or a mercenary—•
to aid a people that he felt were not, and
never could be, his people. Then the immi-
grants must be intelligent and industrious, for
intelligence is of more account in matters of
defence than mere meat and sinew, and industry
produces wealth which is one of the essentials of
defence. Lastly, they must come of a race with
a good fighting record, for the chief reason why
we want them is that there may be serious fight-
ing to do. The first stipulation bars out the
Asiatic, and the African, and the European
Turk ; and it should bar out the Mohammedan
and the Mormon, and other people who wear
quaint out-sizes in religion that set them apart
from the mass of the community. Under the
second stipulation it is highly advisable to draw
a line against encouraging the influx of some of
the f ragmentary races of the Russian and Austrian
empire, and the Turkish borders—people who
have upon them, like a crust, the accumulation
of countless ages of ignorance, incapacity, back-
wardness, dirt and wooden-headedness, and who
would probably take 100 years to develop an
ability to be anything better than a slummicky
peasantry in time of peace, and a row of unreason-
ing animals in the ranks in time of war. The third
condition—that a country with such huge possible
odds to face should only encourage the influx of
races of well-known fighting capacity—further
limits the choice. Among the races that answer
to all three required conditions are the people of
the British Isles, the French, Germans, Belgians,
Dutch, Danes, Scandinavians, the better class
only of the Poles, Russians, Bohemians and Hun-
garians, also the Spaniards, Swiss, and those
North Americans who are really Americans —a
class which will probably, in obedience to that
curious natural law which makes man ever set his
feet on the westward track, yet begin to drift
largely this way. The Portuguese maybe classed
as doubtful. The mixed races of South and
Central America are so mixed as to be impossible.
The Russian Jew and the Polish Jew should be
equally impossible. The Italian is a problem
that is difficult to solve.
* * • •
The Italian is one of the easiest of immigrants
to get, and therefore there is a tendency in some
quarters to take large quantities of him and ask
no questions. In the South of his boot-shaped
country he has a considerable admixture of African
blood, which is a serious drawback. In the North
he has a considerable streak of German blood,
but the German element in him seems to have
degenerated. He has been strangely and noto-
riously unlucky in war. Since the 12th century,
when a Dago league in Lombardy won a solitary
battle against a wandering Emperor of Germany,
there is hardlya record of an Italian victory on land,
and there are very few such records at sea, unless
the Italian was the mere auxiliary of some more
gritty race, or unless hoth parties were Italians,
and some sort of a Dago victory was consequently
inevitable. Where history records something
that looks like a real Italian victory it generally
proves on inspection to have been won chiefly by
hired mercenaries. Nominally, and by way of a
joke, Italy is now one of the Great Powers of
Europe, and is supposed to be potent on land and
influential on the sea. But the mere tail end of
Austria defeated it on both elements in 1866, and
that at a time when practically the whole military
strength of the Austrian empire was facing Prussia
in the North; and the Italian dreams of an empire
in Africa were so badly broken by an ill-armed
local brown nation that African Italy straightway
became little more than a name. In all Europe
no nation of the same size has so poor a military
record, and as a colonist and an outpost in
Northern Australia, where a much better brown
man than the Abyssinian may happen along any
day, the Dago appears a dubious reed to depend
upon. Australia hasn’t so very much good land
to give away, and when it is looking for someone
who can hold up a bayonet against the chest of
Asia, it might be well to choose a less consistently
unlucky individual than our Dago brother. In
days to come, when this country creates a
navy of its own, the Italian, who certainly
has a habit of going to sea, might have
advantages, but even on that familiar
element he seems nowadays to be more of a casual
incapable who goes afloat in a very dirty ship,
and drifts about, getting in the road of real com-
merce, than a genuine sailor. Just at present the
Dago person is the prospective stand-by of the
Queensland sugar industry. In that capacity he
may be the best obtainable material, and he is
certainly a thousand miles in advance of the
Kanaka. But between a small unavoidable Dago
in the cane-fields and a large wholesale Dago im-
ported under the impression that he is just the
sort of military bulwark this country craves for,
there is a great gulf fixed.
THE MASTERS OF THE SEA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There are nations born for Power,
There are nations born to cower—
And, like slaves, to fetch and carry for the peoples
strong and free ;
From the dim dead throats of Time
Rolls a fierce and ringing rhyme—
Hear the launching-chant loud pealing from the
Masters of the Sea !
Through the misty wrack of years,
See the lean Phoenician steers
Forth from ports of Spain and Carthage long
before the Christ was born ;
Thrusts his prow thro’ Biscay’s seas
Towards the Cassiterides—
And his oars go thrashing bravely through
Atlantic mists of morn !
Westward sweeps a Roman fleet,
Driving thro’ the storm and sleet—
Circumsailing ancient Britain in those chartless
days of yore;
’Gainst some gloom-gray marge of sky
Fabled Thule they descry—
Loud they hear the stern sea stamping all along
its frozen shore !
All their hearts beset with fear,
Lo ! they creep past Foula sheer—
Stormy Shetlands, dost remember those intrepid
sailor-men ?
Stars alone had they for guide,
O the seas were grim and wide —
There were Heroes walking westward o’er the
trackless ocean then !
O ye waves that murmur peace
On the western shores of Greece !
Dost recall the crash of galleys on the Day of
Actium ?
How the lords of East and West
Gathered for the last great test—
Dost recall the battle-music of the fierce hortator’s
drum ;
How they came to deadly grips :
Cleopatra’s sixty ships—
How they brought most fell disaster to the
doomed Antony ;
How Octavianus’ head
Lifted proudly when they fled—
How the sea with blood grew crimson in those
hours of victory ?
O, the clanging of the shields !
O, the sword each Norseman wields !
Forth the stalwart sons of Odin troop to ply their
trade of war !
Hear the cry of Vortigern,
Whom they succor ere they spurn—
Whom they smite, and whom they shatter, with
the iron fist of Thor !
South and west across the sea
Come the Yikings, fierce and free.
Hear the shout of Hengist’s heroes ! hear old
Rollo’s soldiers sing !
From the far Norwegian fiords
Stream the blue-eyed battle-lords—
There were thrones to win in Britain—he who
dared might be a king-!
Lo ! the ocean-brood of Danes—
Charged with passion all their veins—
Baltic Berserks seeking vengeance for Gunhilda,
dead and fair;
Came the beaked ships of Sven,
Filled with mighty fighting men—
Ho ! the flashing of their axes and their sword -
blades bright and bare !
They were Masters of the Sea,
And they saw the Saxons flee—
Yea, their camp-fires circled London as they
ravaged England o’er;
While they held the sea with ships,
Lo ! they plied their earnest whips—
Flogging England, Saxon England, with the
reeking thongs of war !
Lo ! the hardy Genoese,
Sweeping past the Cyclades—
How they churn the blue Propontis with their
rhythmic beat of oars ;
From Gibraltar’s narrow straits
To the Tanais’ iron gates,
Ho ! they ride upon their galleys and patrol the
Seven Shores!
Seeking John Cantacozene,
Lo ! They search the broad Tyrrhene—
And the Greeks are fed or famished as the grim
sea-captains please;
And Doria’s ships of war
Drive the Pisans fast and far,
As with sturdy, earnest hands they grip the
sceptre of the seas !
Venice moulders in the slime —
Does the world recall the time
When the Lion of St. Marco held the nations all
in fee ;
When the Adriatic’s coasts
Saw the onset of its hosts,
And the blind Dandolo staring out across the
trackless sea ?
Half a thousand years ago
There was wailing, there was woe,
When the Doge’s fleets were sighted from the old
Byzantine walls.
By the fair Euboean isle,
See the swift Venetians file—
Hear the arbalests a-twanging while the throne
of Cesar falls.
Dost remember Sulieman,
And his conquests African—
Dost remember Barbarossa—dost recall his
Tunis lair?
How the Pope and Emperor
And the Doge were beaten sore
All along the Gulf of Arta by the Sultan’s great
corsair!
How that Master of the Seas
Brought the Christians to their knees —
How Dragut and his brethren fought the proudest
fleets of Spain;
He of Mohacs —he was great,
And the nations felt his weight
When the galleys of Mahomet dared the world
upon the main !
Fallen from his high estate
Like a beggar at the gate,
Next the combat off Lepanto told the Porte
another tale;
Yea, that Selim, called the Sot,
Most emphatic beating got
When the Spaniards and Venetians blasted forth
their iron gale;
The Crescent went below,
Where the old lost banners go,
When puissant Father Pius organised the
squadrons three !
’Twas a great and famous day
When the Pope’s ships blazed away,
And broke Mahomet’s prestige most completely •
on the sea !
It was Philip, King of Spain,
Brake the Sultan’s ships in twain,
Yet soon his great Armada reeled beneath an
English blow,
And in 1588
Fell the heavy fist of Fate,
And the greedy master-monarch in the dust was
scattered low.
Gone his galliasses tMI
Gone his galleys, one and all—
When Howard smote the yellow flag along the
southern shore;
Past the Start and Portland Bill
Hid he drive them with a will—
And his captains swept the Channel from the
Needles to the Nore !
• • * *
Read, Australians, read the page
Of that dim, forgotten age—
Lo ! the beacons, they are blazing down the vista*
of the past;
When the new Armadas come,
Ye must beat your battle-drum—
Ye must hold the seas or perish ’neath the weight
of navies vast!
Are ye born for strength and power,
Or to meanly skulk and cower—
Are ye born to fetch and carry, or to stand erect
and free ?
If the latter ye desire,
Ships and sailors ye require—
For the weak must bow submissive to the Masters
of the Sea!
via.
GRANT HERYET.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Stinking Fish is “Off.”
A western interviewer tried hard the other day
to get H. 0. Hoover, of Bewick, Moreing and
Cos., to say the usual thing about how Socialistic
legislation was driving capital out of the country.
But Hoover, whose firm probably represents
more foreign capital than any other in Australia,
was an obstinate disappointment. So the report
ran this way :
When asked if Australian legislation was driving capital
out of the country, Mr. Hoover said : “ You can be sure,
as a matter of practical finance, that if there are mines in
the State worth taking a risk on, the Legislative Assem-
bly can work day and night framing bad legislation, and
the only effect on the capitalist will be to make him
exact stiffer terms for the additional risks so imposed. It
is in terms that a country suffers. Money is never
frightened by anything. It either demands more interest
or more security.”
He added that “ there was no difficulty in secur-
ing money” for shares in Westralian enterprises.
Almost at the same time the Insurance and
Banking Record, which is doleful sometimes
about Australian politics, made this announce-
ment :
The directors of the Scottish Widows’ Fund Life Assur-
ance Society, having decided, owing to the fact that
better rates of interest are now obtainable in Great
Britain, to discontinue making further advances in Aus-
tralasia, the offices of the society at Sydney were closed on
the Ist ult.
The two items, read together, ought to make
Anti-Sosh feel rather sorry for itself. First H. C.
Hoover says bad legislation only makes the
capitalist demand higher interest; then the
Widows’ Fund goes back to Great Britain because
higher interest can now be got there. In other
words, Australian securities are at present so
esteemed that Australian interest is lower than
interest is in Great Britain ; and foreign capital is
driven away, not by bad legislation, but because
good legislation has resulted in such a flood of
capital being available in Australia that a foreign
insurance co. with bonuses to earn cannot accept
the rates which it can now command here. Thiscom-
plete turningof the tables on the Anti-Scsh bogey-
manufacturer recalls some articles which a Maori-
land banker of 40 years’ standing has been writing
to the papers and magazines. After pointing out
that the Australian banking crisis of 14 years ago
was directly due to the wholesale taking of foreign
dejjosits, which were used in riotous speculation,
to the awful loss of the foreign depositor iu many
cases, he points out that Australian banks have
lately put themselves in exactly the same position
as the foreign depositor was in at that time. They
are lending very large sums in England to pro-
mote speculation which has clearly alarmed the
Bank of England (the high Bank rate proves
that), and they are pluming themselves on their
high interest earnings—as no doubt the foreign
depositor did 15 or 18 years- ago. But, our 40-
year-old banker says, they will be mighty lucky
if they don’t make heavy losses through large
failures ; whether they will escape or not depends
upon whether they know when to come in out of
the wet. This is a refreshing change of view,
anyhow. Hitherto, it has always been Australia
that has had to listen to the Stinking Fish remark
that if it didn’t behave itself, capital would be
withdrawn ; it is a blessed relief to find someone
saying that, if J. Bull doesn’t behave himself
better, Australia ought to withdraw its cash
support from the old gentleman.
♦
A Letter from Hell.
This is a communication from that Chow-infested
Gehenna upon earth, the Northern Territory
Immediate action must be taken in the Northern
Territory over the native question. Six months ago
Horseshoe Creek and Mount Todd tinfield was a quiet,
inoffensive little place, with a population of 40 Euro-
peans, 50 Chinese, and a score or so of blacks. To-day
it is converted into a perfect inferno, reeking with de-
pravity, disease, and filth. It has now a population of
500 Chows and 30 Europeans. The aborigines in swarms
have followed this motley crowd. Hundreds of niggers,
male and female, prowl all over the pi ice and squat
around the Mongolian grass hovels. Youi-g children are
brought from the bush and openly sold to the heathens
for food and tobacco. Every Chow camp has mobs of
lubras in a half nude state, who live with the Pagans.
They are, most of them, already diseased. I know of
seven children under 10 years old who are living with
Chinamen ; they have all been sold by their unnatural
parents for provisions. One Chow miner at Mount Todd
has bought no less than three young children, during
the past two years. A policeman called at his hovel
the other day. A girl of eight years was hidden under
some leaves, but the bobby took no action. In fact,
the police tell me they' have no power to take action.
Drink and opium are supplied to aboriginal girls, 12
and 13 years of age. As far as I know, every store
that is bigger than a boot-trunk sells liquor; there are
two opium dens and three gambling hells. Also, there
are no police regularly stationed in the place. A Royal
Commission should be appointed to investigate the
horrible state of affairs existing in the Northern Terri-
tory. You may know the Chow as he is in the South,
where he wears a faint disguise of decency lest his
white neighbors should turn and rend him. Here, he
has no such restraint, and the Beast of Revelation was
a harmless ornament by comparison. When I read of
such people as Preacher Worrall, of Victoria, declar-
ing Australia accursed because it won’t freely admit
this tainted race, in common with other Asiatics, and
I hear that Worrall is still alive and flourishing, I
marvel at the inscrutable delays of Providence.
♦
The Hew Tusmanian Ass.
The Tasmanian National Ass is dead. Its bosses
decided that it wouldn’t gee; so they have killed
it, or it has brayed itself to death; and out
of the ashes of its hide has been scraped up a
sort of mongrel phoenix, to be called “The Tas-
manian National Progressive League.” Its policy


is to be the policy of the Ass which is no longer
with us, with three additions : —(1) Closer Settle-
ment, by voluntary purchase and sale —no lease-
holds. There is already an Act in operation
covering this plank, so the Ass’s function is evi-
dently to bray to the public that the Act is a good
Act—although the original Ass opposed it
bitterly. (2) Free Education. Fees are now
being reduced rapidly in Tas. schools, and the
Ass cannot stop the process, bray it never so
loudly either for or against. (3) Local Option.
This is already as good as law. The only live
question is Compensation or no Compensation,
and, as to this, the tail of Neddy waggeth not, nor
do his ears or eyelids twitch. He keeps on saying
nothing in a loud silence, but everyone knows
that the Ass is the brewers’ Ass, and drags the
beer dray in its spare time. No one who
knows the animal will covet this, his
neighbor’s Ass. It is the same heavy,
superior, selfish, ignorant quadruped that was so
sorely wounded at the last State election and
afterwards poisoned by its much-ashamed owners.
It will fight for Bung, for the land monopolist,
the sweater, and the Legislative Council. It will
live upon the unspeakable doings of the awful
Mercury, and will be a jackal for the Foreign-
traders wnenever those anti-Australians need an
unscrupulous tool in Tasmania. “Ye shall know
the Ass by its riders.” Every dilapidated and
morose Tory jockey who sits on the new phoenix-
Neddy is a notorious grafter for all monopolists,
sweaters and Tories. And all its chief members
despise as a “fad ” the biggest hope of Tassy—a
tax on Land Values.
*
Bees and the Blue Blocks.
“ L.E.” writes
On the edge of the Victorian Dividing Range, between
the Grampian and Victorian ranges, and between the
Wimmera and Glenelg rivers, is a magnificent State
forest, the first green timber the hot winds strike after
crossing the 90-mile desert. This is known as the Blue
Blocks country—the State lands marked blue on the
Government maps, and recently thrown open for settle-
ment. Though the land is marked third-class, this
timber belt is of inestimable value to the State. Kanga-
roo and emu still break through fences, and chew the
settlers’ tobacco and spit out the juice ; but each year
closer settlement extends. Up to the present, the Blue
Blocks have passed through three stages of development.
First, the squatter grabbed everything—mountain and
valley—and grazed a few sheep. One or two of him still
remain, longing for the good old days of much land and
little population. The second stage brought the small
grazier on to the scene. He was better, being more
numerous than the squatter, but he had no appreciation
for the tall timber. He liked to get to it with an axe.
This is all very well in Gippsland, but a gum’s a gum in
the North-west. The latest sensation is the bee-farmer.
Fierce opposition, Parliamentary and otherwise, has
been directed against each new development; but now
the three classes —squatter, grazier, and bee-farmer—
have each a distinct legal footing, and live together in
mutual enmity. They wouldn’t be happy in the bush
otherwise.
The bee-farmer and grazier frequently occupy the one
site, which, in some respects, is an economy. The Govern-
ment rents the grass right to the grazier, and the use of the
timber to the bee-farmer. The forest is rich in eucalypti,
red gum, yellow box, peppermint box, greybark, iron-
bark, white gum, &c., and many scrubs, which produce
the greatest honey supply in Victoria. Nearly every tree is
useful to the bee-farmer at different seasons, so the pro-
tection of this valuable timber is assured. The red gum
and yellow box honey is, perhaps, the finest in the world.
It is superior even to English clover honey, being more
aromatic. At the Paris Exhibition, honey produced in
this district beat the world. There is a great future for
bees in Victoria. Bee-farming is yet in its infancy, but
even in a few seasons it has been proved that, on the Blue
Blocks, for every £IOOO made by sheep, £SOOO or £6OOO
can be obtained from honey.
The grazier and bee-farmer are deadly enemies. They
never miss an opportunity for a fight. The bee-farmer’s
site must not exceed 10 acres, but his bee range may ex-
tend a mile. It all depends on the bees’ flying power.
The bee-ite must not keep a dog, and the grazier must
not ring a tree. There is no reason why, under these
conditions, two men cannot live where only one lived
before. The tenants, however, are particularly bellicose.
One massive intellect wanted to arrange a special time-
table for the bees’ and sheep’s drinking, either for fear
the sheep would drink up the bees, or the bees devour
the sheep. It is wonderful what a lot of argument can
be got out of an abstruse subject like that. Other obsti-
nate Blue Blockers insisted on ringing trees, law or no
law. Indeed, only last year there was an important test
case re ringing, and one grazier lost his land. Since that
historic occasion bee sites have been taken up rapidly,
but there is still plenty of excellent timber country avail-
able for bees.
Bee-farming requires more skill than capital. It gives
a chance to a poor man with brains. But the Govern-
ment would do an excellent work if it started a model
apiary, under the charge of a properly qualified expert,
to educate young men to the business, and also to con-
duct a series of experiments re queen rearing, foul
brood, etc., for the benefit of all bee farmers. Such an
apiary could easily pay its expenses, and do much to
raise bee-farming into a scientifically-conducted and
valuable industry.
The Kid-Leader’s Residence.
Victoria has had a strike of railway men, and
did not like it. Before long it may have a strike
of State school teachers, and it won’t like that
either. The trouble is not over hours or pay,
though both are bad; but over the conditions
under which 80 per cent, of the teachers are com-
pelled to work and live. Most of the schools in
victoria were built many years ago by people
who knew nothing of school work. Class-rooms
were arranged any old way. Windows were
shoved in at any corner or angle, and as long as
the buildings looked passable on the outside
when they were new—they really were new once
—it was nobody’s business to care whether the
children inside were driven blind or the teachers
sent to early graves or premature spectacles
through having to stand amid a marvellous
arrangement of draughts and cross lights. Ven-
tilation was a thing that nobody bothered about.
But all these things have to be endured
for only a few hours a day. Worse fol-
lows when the day’s work is done. The
Department has provided houses for most of its
teachers—at least it calls them houses. Out of
some 1200 “teachers’ residences” in Victoria,
about 400 consist of one lean-to room stuck against
the side of the school-room. Two hundred have
two rooms. About the same number have three
rooms, and about as many more have four rooms.
The number with five or six rooms is less than 50.
Fourteen have seven rooms, while one man in the
whole State riots in the glory and luxury of an
eight-roomed house. It has to be remembered
that the majority of these teachers are no longer
young, and that their work often lies in a
hot, dry climate. Life in a pokey one or
two rooms under such conditions is pure
misery. A huge percentage of the teachers
are compulsory celibates. Men who have one
room, or two rooms, to live in, and one-roomed
salaries to live on, cannot fairly ask any well-
brought-up girls to share such a life with them.
Quaint stories are told of the shifts and struggles
of the occasional hero and heroine who got
married while the hero was in charge of a country
school. On one occasion a pair with a one-room
“residence” gave a little party. Mrs. Teacher
had arranged the “ residence ” as tastefully as
possible, and striven hard to hide the fact that
one room comprised all the “residence” there
was. At supper one of the party pulled
his chair up to the table, to the evident
uneasiness of poor little Mrs. Teacher. He pub
his feet under the table, and loud yells filled the
room. The secret was out. The two children,
who pigged it with their parents in the shanty,
had been put to bed under the table, with threats
of dire penalties if they made a noise. In other
places the sehoolhouse is used as a bedroom
at night, and the signs of its occupation are
hurried away before the children come to school.
One case is known where the teacher’s wife became
a mother in the one-room lean-to while the pro-
cesses of education were going on in the school-
room—and the partition between the house and
the school was a thin matchwood lining. Yet
although these things and more—far more—have
been known to the Department for years, no honest
attempt has been made to remedy them. Certainly
Sachse ordered the building of a few two-storey
Swiss chalets, made out of some patent oiled felt,
but Saohse’s chalets were built on such an idiotic
plan—without even bathrooms—that they are fit
only for stabling goats. The Department’s ex-
penditure on buildings during the last seven or
eight years has varied from £2 to £8 per school.
This would not pay for painting the palatial
structures, let alone making them habitable. The
cry of the teacher is bound to be heard in the
land before very long, and it will be such a
determined cry that Bent will be forced to gather
up the crumbs of his surplus and pass out some-
thing like £IOO,OOO or £150,000 to make up for
the neglect and mistakes of the past 20 years.
The Disarmament Fad.
British Prime Minister Campbell-Bannerman
(there should be a law against politicians having
such long, unwieldy names) was guilty of a senten-
tious folly, when, apropos of his disarmament fad,
he remarked that the existence of a great pre-
ponderating British fleet which wouldn’t disarm
was no obstacle to disarmament in other direc-
tions. “ If the fleet is invulnerable, it carries no
menace,” said he with the two long names and
the hen-roost in between them. In other words,
whilst Britain has a fleet which can wreck any
other nation’s fleet and bombard its coasts, there
is involved no menace, because other nations
won’t be able to argue the point at sea.
Therefore C.-B. holds that other nations should
reduce their armies to please Britain, which isn’t
in a position to argue the point with a Great
Power on land. Other nations would probably
prefer a sea disarmament and a retention of
existing armies, and between the two conflicting
views there is likely to be no progress at all. The
argument of the British Premier with the hyphen
is worthy of the subject, which is, practically,
only tit for discussion among societies of quarrel-
some vegetarians, when they have temporarily
exhausted the subject of hygienic clothing for both
sexes. To disarm all the nations is an admirable
ideal, if the disarmament were simultaneous, and
there were efficient guarantees that no recalcitrant
people would subsequently secretly re-arm and
prepare to wipe out all the rest. Such an agree-
ment is only possible when all the world has
reached about the same stage of civilisation and
ethics, and the Asiatic is a few million years
behind in that development as yet. It may yet
be possible to create a European Federation
which will make internal war impossible,
and which will maintain a joint army
and navy to crush any attempt at invasion
by an Asiatic Power, and that possibility
will come nearer when Russia and Germany
are ruled by democratic Parliaments, and the last
vestige of kingly interference is swept away from
Europe. But at present there is no hope for the
nation which cannot resist attack if necessary, and
the degree of resistance must be proportionate to
the value of the prize which invites attack. Great
Britain, as offering one of the most valuable of
prizes to a conqueror, should logically have about
the strongest defences in the world. It is to avoid
a frank recognition of that some what awkward truth
that British statesmanship has been reduced of
late years to various desperate expedients—such
as the bluff of “ splendid isolation,” the undigni-
fied kow-towing to the United States, and finally
the disgraceful Japanese alliance. But the truth
will have to be faced one day, and when it is faced
Great Britain will realise that safety demands two
things : (1) A policy which will put the country
in a position to feed itself in time of war : (2) an
army reform which will train every citizen to
shoots and make the nation a possible army,
instead of the army being a small hired band,
recruited with difficulty from the dregs of the
slums and the almost equally hopeless dregs of
the swell homes of the aristocracy.
+
Hawaii and the Northern Territory.
But for the fact that the Hawaiian Islands are
separated from the mainland of America by water,
their position is almost identical with that of the
Northern Territory of Australia. Their climates
are similar, and they both stand as half-way
houses for Asia. In only one point has Australia
the advantage—it has passed legislation to pro-
hibit the influx of aliens, and any influx that does
occur must be either surreptitious or by force.
All the same, the experience of Hawaii is one that
Australia needs to take seriously to heart.
Prior to the islands being taken over by the
United States the majority of the inhabitants
were Hawaiian natives, about 10 per cent,
were Asiatics, and there was a handful of whites.
By 1900, the population had increased to 154,000,
of whom 86,728 were Asiatics, and 61,111 of these
Asiatics were Japanese. Out of the total adult
population of 85,136, no fewer than 43,753 repre-
sented Monkeyland. From 1900 to 1905, 38,029
Japanese arrived in Hawaii, and 10,000 Chinese
and Coreans. The number of Asiatics who left
Hawaii exceeded the number of arrivals by 4284,
and, on the face of it, this would make it appear
that the menace to Hawaii is exaggerated. But
nearly the whole of the Asiatics who quitted the
islands were destined for San Francisco,
Seattle, and British Columbia. Between June
30, 1900, and Dec. 31, 1905, it is known that
at least 20,000 Japs reached the Pacific coast of
the United States from Hawaii, but owing to the
recent Monkeyphile outbreak, no complete records
were kept, and the actual number was probably
nearer 40,000. The reports of the United States
Commissioner of Labor show that for all prac-
tical purposes Hawaii is a Jap colony, but being
nominally an American possession, all the Japs
resident there will be unaffected by any exclusion
treaty, and may freely enter San Francisco. The
Japanese in Hawaii have complete control of the
trade in clothing, boots, and food products,
including coffee and rice. The other trades are
passing to them, and white artisans are being
gradually displaced. Shopkeeping is almost wholly
in the hands of the Asiatics, and in addition to in-
terference in labor, the Japanese capitalist-
who is very often merely another name for the
Socialistic Jap Government—is making inroads
into the industries established by Americans.
Further, the Government of Nippon exerts
strange but unmistakable influences on all sides,
and the rumor that there are in Hawaii complete
regiments of Japanese soldiers, officered and
armed, but outwardly peaceful citizens for the
moment, may have a good deal to substantiate it.
The one effective protection against such an in-
vasion as Hawaii has suffered is a population of
white people big enough to be its own policeman.
That is where the Northern Territory question
comes in. Its danger is that it hasn’t the
population. The settlement of 100,000 British
people and a heap of Germans and Scandinavians
on farms in the Territory would prove a more
effective method of defence than even the impor-
tation of the Duke of Connaught.
The Child and the Tariff.
The Federal Labor Congress which lately sat in
Melbourne tackled many small questions, but few
large ones. As usual, the delegates sacrificed the
party’s permanent position to the convenience of
the moment, and made no effort to pin the organ-
isation down to a Protective policy. Nor were
the questions of universal military service and
adequate naval defence touched on. But there
were lengthy discussions on prison-made goods,
privileged cabs in railway-station yards, and the
legalisation of a compulsory 44-hour day. One
big subject the Congress looked at sideways and
in the rear, and then left it undecided. That was
the employment of children. The delegates
finally resolved that “ children in workshops and
factories should receive not less than ss. per 44-
hour week, and that the minimum age limit for
boys should be 15 years, for girls 16 years.” It
looks good ; but, even apart from the fact that it
leaves the poor little Slave of the Cow to be
sweated as hitherto, it doesn’t mean much. The
conference made the old mistake of trying to
remove effects without grappling with causes. It
passed fine resolutions as to what a country
should do when a mule kicks it; but it didn’t pay
any attention to the mule. The Australian child
is sent to a factory at too early an age because,
generally, his father, through excessive foreign
competition, can’t earn enough to keep the house
going without him. Then, being at the factory,
he is worked too-long hours for too-little wages
because the boss has to compete with the output
of factories in countries where, as a matter of
course, youngsters are worked long hours for
little wages. Also, the foreign adult often works
for so little, or the foreign factory is so well
established, equipped, and organised, or the
foreign exporter is such an adept in “dumping,”
that, to compete with him, the almost unpro-
tected Australian boss is driven to employ the
child instead of the man. The child labor problem
in Australia will never be settled without High
Protection ; boy and girl employment at starva-
tion wages is the price the family and the Com-
monwealth pay for harboring its Freetrade G.
Reids, McMillans, B. Smiths, and Joe Cooks.
V
The Victorian Circumlocution Office.
“ Quidam,” whose letter was insufficiently
stamped, and who writes in copying ink :
There are various branches of that weird institution,
the Victorian Mines Department, and they all appear to
be run on manly, independent lines, each not knowing
or caring anything of the other’s doings. For instance,
in the town at present adorned by my presence, if you
want to get a miner’s right you resort to the Post Office ;
to take up a claim you go to the Registrar, and for a
lease you make application through the Warden to the
Mines Department in Melbourne. If you apply for a
claim on ground that is already under lease, the chances
are the Registrar knows, nothing about it, and the
Warden is equally oblivious about the Registrar’s doings.
If you want a title to a tailings heap on State land you
must apply direct to the Minister for Mines in Mel-
bourne, and then get the land surveyed at your own cost
by a mining surveyor, who forwards plans, &c., to Mel-
bourne, and in the course of time the Minister will for-
ward to the Warden a license to hold tailings, and the
Treasury, or some such mighty and brilliant departmi nt,
will forward a voucher for cost of same to the local Post
Office, which bill you must pay before you collect the
license from the Warden. The tailings heap must be
pegged with square pegs, painted blue (not green),
with metal plates attached bearing particulars, and
the application must be advertised in the local paper.
For each step of the applicant’s performance, viz., sur-
veying, advertising, forwarding application (with fee),
forwarding first year’s rent, &c., a set time is prescribed,
but the crack of doom is, roughly speaking, the time
allowed the Department for scr bbling out the license
paper. I know of one tailings heap which was applied
for, advertised, surveyed, rent paid, permission from
holders of all rights above and below' ground forwarded,
&c., according to regulations made and provided.
This all happened about five months ago, and license has
not arrived yet, though tailings are nearly all treated.
It is pleasing to note, moreover, that it is simplicity it-
self to go to the Registrar and obtain some sort of a title
to tailings under the bylaws of the particular district,
and then find out that the title availeth nothing as
against a license from the far-away Mines Department,
and it is also quite possible to make a bona-fide purchase
of a sand-heap held under one of the aforesaid Depart-
ment’s tailings’ licenses, and then have your title upset
because the holder of the license—the man who sold to
you—neglected some formality in applying for it. No
redress is, of course, obtainable from the snail-like De-
partment which issued the license. Something of the
nature of dynamite is needed in connection with the
Victorian Mines Department. At present it is simply an
institution for forwarding the interests of paint factories
(those that make blue paint—the kind you put on the
square pegs on which you hang the metal pegs with the
particulars) and local papers.
❖
In Queensland.
In the Queensland political world all parties are
marking time till the conference at Rockhampton
shall decide which way the Labor cat will jump.
A considerable section of the Laborites recognise
that for Labor to go on its own, and oppose
Premier Kidston, means a return of the Denham-
Philp combination, which would be an unmiti-
gated disaster for the Labor party and for Queens-
land. The other section of the party, led by
Hinchcliffe and the Worker, would, it is
understood, have a Denham-Philp combination
in preference to the present Premier, whom
it affects to regard as a rat. And if Labor
goes alone there is little doubt that the extreme
section will get what it prefers. There is mighty
little difference between the Kidston policy and
the Labor policy, although the absence of a land
tax and the tendency to fool round with the
private-shindycate system of building rail-
ways, are two considerable blots on Kidston’s
policy. Still, the point is that it is better to have
a blot or two than to be obliterated entirely by
the black-labor, land-grabbing, concession-bood-
ling system of Denham and Philp. And that
is the only choice that lies before the Labor
crowd. It hasn’t a ghost of a chance of fight-
ing a successful campaign on its own. To
begin with, it hasn’t a leader of commanding
personality. The battle-cry of the Queensland
Worker, “Socialism in Our Time!” looks very
well on paper, but what the Queensland Laborites
have to consider is how to do some immediate
good for the State, and, above all, how to prevent
it falling under the domination of Philp’s
wicked old black-labor gang. The only way to
avoid that catastrophe just now seems to be to fix
up an honorable working alliance with Kidston.
So far Labor has done very little for itself in any
Australasian State, except by alliances, In Maori’
land the Labor party followed BALLANCB, and
afterwards Seddon. It was proposed that Labor
should go alone, but the wiser councils of Hori
Gbey prevailed, and the Laborites fixed up an
alliance,, and by that means did more in three
years than they could have otherwise effected in a
decade. In N.S.W., Labor did practically
nothing Qn its own account; and the heydey of
its influence was when it made a working agree-
ment with the Lyne-See party. In S. Australia
a working alliance between Price and the
Liberals is bringing a quite unexpected amount
of credit to the Labor party. In Victoria, all
the good work it ever did was when it supported
George Turner, in the days before he shifted out
to Hawthorn and ceased to be a good democrat.
Altogether, it is a delicate position, and it is more
than possible that if Labor tries to stamp through
it, things will get broken in a way that the Labor-
ites themselves will have cause to bitterly regret.
♦—
South Australia owns a ‘ ‘ Great Central State
League,” which was formed to cry out for the
retention by S.A. of the Northern Territory and
its development by jobs and syndicates—the
same process which has left the same old Terri-
tory undeveloped for half a century. The
“ Great ” institution had only got started when
Deakin and Price fixed up their agreement for
the transfer of the Pale Elephant to the Common-
wealth ; and this was such a shock to the League
that it took its full 10 seconds on the floor to
recover its wind. Then it crawled to its corner,
and fanned itself with the towel, and incited
Senator Symon to ramble at great length to a
public meeting about the wrong, insult, assault
and battery done to S.A. by the proposed
transfer. Symon is a good lawyer, but
a miserably narrow-minded politician ; he
had a hopeless case, and he was dreary,
illogical, venomous, parochial, angry, cir-
cuitous, unconvincing, hot, excited, confused,
bitter, and longer than the sea-serpent. All the
same, he may be the forerunner of trouble, and
already it is said that the Uppish House of S.A.
may throw out the agreement for the proposed
transfer. If it does, that House will be able to
rest on its laurels as having perpetrated the most
shamefully unpatriotic act in Australian history.
The safety of Australia depends on the settlement
of the Territory with a strong white population,
which will be a garrison in time of trouble, and
whoever joins in a movement to keep the Terri-
tory in its present empty and defenceless condi-
tion, deserves to be hung higher than Haman’s
gallows.
“ C.M.”: How ever the Commerce Act got on the
statutes is a mystery to every right-thinking man.
It is an enemy of commercial enterprise. An in-
stance of the way it acts : We have been in the
way of importing English cheese in jar3—very
nice, bulky jars—and distributing them among
our customers for a small consideration (ss. 6d.),
with the gratuitous information that the contents
weighed between 21b. and 241 b. (Did I say gratu-
itous ? Well, Pm a liar. That little bit of infor-
mation had its fixed price, although never shown
on the account. It would not look well like this :
cheese, 3s. 6d. ; barefaced lie, 25.” We
always aim at condensing accounts, with the view
of saving our clients’ valuable time.) Now, how-
ever, anew order of things is established. In
compliance with this disgraceful Act, these jars
are corning out with the weight, 141 b., stamped
legibly on each—too legibly altogether—and our
unobtrusive lie has no buyers. The market has
been ruthlessly destroyed. It is monstrous.
♦
“K.”: I have just returned from a pad around
one of those big, West Victorian estates that Bent
was going to smash up in a hurry some months
ago. The estate contains about 50,000 acres,
average plain country. It has now four married
boundary riders living o-n it, and about 25 men
at the homestead, four of the 25 being married.
It is thus supporting nine families, and support-
ing them badly. This estate, if cut up, would, allow-
ing an average of 500 acres to the farm, enable 100
farmers to make a good living. Besides making
their own and their families’ living, the farmers
would at least treble the output of the station.
Just now all that it produces is merino wool, and
a few hundred fat sheep and culled ewes each
year. The farmers would grow grain, and raise
lambs for export. Then these 100 farmers and
their families would be large buyers of agricul-
tural implements, horses, furniture, clothing, and
groceries. Amongst them they would easily
support a store, a pub, butcher, baker, saddler,
and perhaps others. At present there isn’t one
of the above businesses within half a day’s
journey of the estate ; and you can fire a ‘303-rifle
in any direction without fear of hitting anything
more important than a sheep.
Ip legislation on the lines of the Vic. Manures
Act were applied to all imported articles, foreign
shoddy would soon be off the market. The Act
requires that a certificate, showing the result of
the analysis of every manure offered for sale, shall
be handed to the Government, together with
bulk samples. Also, an analysis of contents must
be attached to all bags sent out, and the Govern-
ment sends round officers to colleot samples of
fertilisers from sheds, paddocks, and railway
stations. These samples are analysed, and
results published in the Government Gazette
and .Journal op Agriculture. Victorian manu-
facturers, who have expensive plants sunk in the
business, welcomed tbe passing of the Act. They
always did attach a genuine analyst’s certificate
to their goods, while many of the importers of
foreign dirt flourished on bogus certificates and
lying advertisements, and then, when bowled out,
said, like the Sydney patent-medicine drummer,
that they weren’t chemists themselves, and so
didn’t know. The foreign imports are therefore
dwindling, and, as the Australian business grows,
the price comes down —the farmer is getting
genuine stuff that he can rely on, and is getting
it cheaper nearly every year. But the very men
who admit that all this happens in connection
with the farmers’ manures, tell you that State
interference with Private Enterprise will kill a
country, and are quite sure that the Common-
wealth Commerce Act is almost a crime.
, —»
Howard Ashton : I am considered by my friends
a more or less reasonable man, but I "own to one
strong prejudice—a color one, I. hate and| distrust
the Chinese and Japanese varieties of our species,
I am told that morality is a >nere matter of lati-.
tude. I agree, I am told' that the Chinaman,
works hard—that he is, so far as a lack of active
criminality goes, a good, law-abiding citizen, J
don’t mind. lam informed that,, though it is true
he does not wash himself, it is also true that many
white men are not a whit more cleanly; and,
sorrowfully, I concur, I am then angrily told!
that lam prejudiced—a thing which I knew all
along ; and again I acquiesce, It is only when I
am gravely admonished that prejudice is a thing
to be cast out that I disagree. Prejudice is but
another name, in many of its larger manifesta-
for instinct, and Nature never gave an in-
StiflOt yet to any of her organisms, whether those
organisms be protozoa, men or nations, which


was not to the advantage of the recipients. No
persistent instinct can be a wrong one, otherwise
the species possessing it would have died out.
And this racial instinct is as old as the world,
u 1S ’ firinl y believe, the determining cause of
the evolution of species from varieties, a sort of
backwash of sexual selection. The East and the
West will never mix. They will diverge, until,
in the future, the genus Homo will hold two species.
Nowhere in Nature is the struggle for existence
more keen than between two species al lied in habits,
structure, and intelligence, and the same applies
to tyvo cognate varieties or races of the same
species. Our prejudice or instinct, then, against
the colored races is as surely an instinct toward
self-preservation as is that of eating when we are
hungry—as necessary an instinct toward race-
preservation as the two fine passions of sexual
and maternal love. No one except a degenerate
will question the nobility of these, their influences
toward all that makes life beautiful to humanity.
Yet here is the phenomenon of a no less magnifi-
cent instinct, one from which springs pride of
race and patriotism, classed as a mere whim, a
prejudice. Let no man be ashamed of
his fierce faith in the superiority of his
race. _ The English race has it strongly;
som its heart has every race that is making
a bid for greatness in the natural selection of
nations. _ Without this assurance, this prejudice,
this instinct, any race will shortly sink back to
savagery, to servitude, to a slothful acceptance of
any wrong which the stronger and more assertive
nations may put upon it. Be proud, at all events,
of that one “ prejudice.”
S. Snell *; Apologists for the Chow have
dwelt upon the cleanliness of that heathen. I won-
dered where they gathered experience. I knew
many Chinese camps in my youth, and found
JOHj* a consistently grimy Asiatic, dirty in his
person, dirty in his home, his habits, and his busi-
ness, and it was difficult to believe Ah Sin had
undergone complete sanitary reformation. The
report of Dr. W. Reid, the Melbourne assistant
medical inspector, who was sent out the other
day by the Board of Health to investigate
Chinese gardens and gardeners, demonstrates
quite convincingly _ that Sin is the same old
Ragan, and still in possession of the same
old dirt. Dr. Reid found tho Chow gardeners
nesting in dark, unventilated, filth-stained
hoveis, four Chows in a 10ft. x 10ft. room,
their houses dilapidated and unfit for human
habitation, without drainage, without sani-
tation. Their business, too, is as foul as
ever it was. They wash their vegetables in the
stinking pools that receive the soakage of liberally
manured gardens, and their dealings with the
homely cabbage and the familiar lettuce cannot
be adequately described. John Chow is still
cheap and correspondingly nasty, and we have
excellent reason to applaud the Australian resolu-
tion that he “ won’t wash.”
“Spring” holdeth fort *
Good old merrie England 1 Ha ! ha ! Good old Anti.
Socialist England ! He ! he 1 Merrie England, the free
wtnch is occasionally visited by our big-revenued, little-
headed landlords, our bloated Anti-Sosh squatters, and
the other gold bugs of Australia, so that, on their return
to the country that gives them wealth, they may hold up
England as the acme of perfection, the home of liberty
and private enterprise ! Good old London, the greatest
city on earth, the rendezvous of riches, learning, ambi-
tion! Your voice is the voice of happiness : you exhale
righteousness. Good old humbug ! Listen !
I have just received a letter from Dr. Baenardo’s
Homes, begging a dole to assist London’s starving
children. Eight away down here, at the bottom
basement, or cellar of the earth, I hear the wail
of the famishing* London kid coming* out of the
thick, cold fog. During 1905, 19,950 of them cried out
for food and shelter, :nd 256,450 have been dealt with at
Barnardos Homes alone since 1866. Then 1,582 504
rations were supplied to homeless young women and
children, also 2,299,000 free hot breakfasts and dinners
were provided in winter to foodless school children,
these particulars are part of the tale of woe which has
floated to the edges of the Empire, the Glorious Empire
from the centre of Imperial wealth. “ Thousands of
children are on the edge of a precipice—many have
already begun to sink into the abyss of immorality
crime, and insanity.” Thus further speaketh the letter
from Barnardo’s Homes.
Across the distance I can hear the rattle of cabs, the
clatter of busy knives and forks in London’s gilded
hotels, the chatter of well-fed, well-groomed ladies of the
upper classes, the loud laughter of the world’s wealth-
lords. I can smell, in my mind, the tail end of the pluto-
crat s motor-car, and I can hear, in my mind, his flunkey
grovelingto him. I can hear the soft, caressing voices
of the prettiest, gayest, flashest courtezans of Europe
gathered in London to reap some of the harvest earned
by the masses for the classes to scatter. And, above it
all, I can hear the famished cries of the thousands hidden
away from sight under the clammy pall of the fog. And
Fat sneers when men who know and see the dreadful
slaughter of humans going on under the present system
rise up in their anger and demand a change in that
system.
Premier Bent stoutly* defends his Victorian
Closer Settlement scheme, with its unwieldy,
impossible methods of compulsory purchase!
He quotes large, proud figures to show that, in
three years, 190,036 acres have been bought for
£1,346,589. So far, 493 farmers have settled on
the land, and Bent reckons to put on 452 more,
ihat means that it costs about £1,500,000 to
put 1000 people on land that was originally
obtained from the S.tate for next to nothing;
and, while this is being done, new big estates
are multiplying gaily. A heavy graduated land-
tax would probably have settled six times as
many people automatically, and without Bent’s
interference. But the old man lives to haggle
and perspire personally over each purchase; to
shout and wrangle over a difference of a few
coppers per acre ; to cuss personally when he gets
the worst of the deal; and to personally throw his
wonderful old hat up at the stars, and to yell
wuh his own mouth when he gets the best of
it. There is nothing automatic about Bent.
He is the kind of general who wants to foam
m the forefront of the fray with a battle-axe
and hit the enemy hard by hand.
*‘ J -Y.’’ (Maoriland) : That dismal institution,
the M.L. Farmers’ Union, is stumping the coun-
try in condemnation of the leasehold and in favor
of the freehold tenure. Now listen. Twelve
years ago a connection of mine (like myself, with
no cash) drew the lucky marble in one of’ John
McKenzie’s land ballots. That entitled him to a
lease of over 300 acres of bush country in the
Wairarapa for 999 years at a nominal rental. He
got a sawmilling co. to go into his bush, and the
royalty he got for timber more than paid for bush-
felling and grassing his section. An auctioneer-
ing co. financed him for his stock, and a succes-
sion of good seasons and good prices made his
future secure. After making much money, he
sold his lease for £ll an acre, and scooped over
£3OOO of M.L. cash. This man, a State tenant
had little hard work and less anxiety, and is now
on the platform crying out for the freehold, and
abusing the foolishly generous system which
made him rich. Now listen some more. Twelve
years ago I was in the employ of the Maoriland
Government Railways. I was placed in charge of a
country railway station and post and telegraph
office. Wages were £l3O a year; responsibility
considerable; hours, first train in the morning
5.50.a.m., last train at night 10.36 p.m. (wages
gone up £lO a year since that time). Now, if I
start an agitation to allow me to buy the freehold
of my little railway station and post and tele-
graph office I will be promptly shot out, and,
most likely, sent to the asylum as a lunatic. But
the agitator who wants to buy the Government
land_ is called a very sane man, notwithstanding
the fact that the land of M.L. is a better asset
to the State than a railway station or a post and
telegraph office. Now for the way to stop the
State leaseholder from agitating for the freehold :
put a covenant in the lease (and enforce it) that,
in the event of the State tenant taking any part
in a demand for the right to buy the land, his
lease shall be immediately cancelled. Then the
M.L. State leaseholder will be for ever silent on the
freehold question. Or there is the other alter-
native. Give the State’s tenant the right to
compulsorily purchase the land he occupies—to
purchase it at an independent valuation— and
GIVE EVERYBODY ELSE’S TENANT THE SAME RIGHT.
If it is good in one case that the man who
occupies the land should own the land then the
principle must be good all round.
«.
A gratifying revulsion of feeling against the
importing craze was manifest at the Sydney
United Service Institution, the other night, when
Major Dove’s prize essay on bush-fighting was
discussed. Hitherto the Australian officah has
been largely imported, and has brought with him,
along with his trunks and his bath, a mass of im-
ported tactics. These would probably be of
immense benefit in England, but are about
as useful for the defence of Australia as
an eighty-one ton gun would be in a bar-room
®&ht. It never struck the Johnnie officah from
Ome, or the other local J ohnnie officah whose
sole ambition was to act as if he had come
1 Ome,’ that tactics designed for country
that was cleared away back in the Bronze Age
would be an unhealthy attribute for an army which
had to defend timbered areas. But the military
forces of Australia are becoming Australianised,
and the essays of both Major Dove and his
fellow-competitors were unanimous in advocating
that Australian troops should be trained in
country similar to that which they will
probably have to defend. A glorious ex-
ample of the idiocy to which the im-
Sorted fetish was carried was instanced by Major
iEgge, who described how country units are
frequently found conducting all their training in
the local park, “ because there is no other open
country about. ” Legge made no bones about the
matter. “The result,’’he said, “is what I call
barrack-square tactics—artificial evolutions which
would be seen only on the stage of a theatre.”
The logical outcome of imported tactics would be
to hand over the defence of Australia to a military
board, consisting of J. C. Williamson, Bland
Holt, and Bill Anderson.
Sweating in the ferry services of Sydney Har-
bor has been exposed in N.S.W. Arbitration
Court during the week, and Sydney Ferries
manager didn’t help the cause of his monopoly in
the public eye when he sneered— apropos of
married men in his service getting £1 a week and
less—that the co. wasn’t a marriage institution.
Sydney Telegraph, of course, endorses that view.
But Public Opinion will say that a ferry co. which
draws such gigantic profits out of the public purse
should pay all its emplovees a living—and a
marrying—wage. There should not be any boy
labor on a ferry boat.
One day last week the S.M. Herald aimed this
clod of grave reproach at N.S.W. :
The arrival of a few immigrants in New South Wales
last year was hailed as an indication that at last the tide
of immigration had set in in favor of Australia—the tide
that would lead to ultimate national prosperity. Since
then some hatches of British people seeking new homes
have arrived here, and unquestionably a little stream
of immigration is flowing towards the Commonwealth •
but the official figures just available as to the extent
to which Canada is attracting the people of Great
Britain to less wealth-producing territory than is avail-
able in these States emphasises the fact that, so far
exceedingly little has been done to infuse life into the
immigration policy of the Commonwealth. It is not
merely a trickle or stream that is gravitating towards
Canada ;it is the tide at the flood. In 1905 she received
144,618 immigrants, but last year the number was 215 912
an increase of 71,294 for 12 months.
And oil the same day this appeared :
The ballot for the 14 Brookong blocks took place yester-
day at Lockhart. There were 1112 applicants.
There is just one way of attracting good immigrants,
and that is to give them a chance to make a good'
living. There are two ways to give them that
chance. One is to supply them with lots of work
in factories (if they are artisans), but then the
miserable old Herald always cries out for
imports, rather than local manufactures. The
other is to supply them with farms (if they are
agriculturists). But already there are 1112 appli-
cants for 14 farms, and, when anyone proposes to
compel the great land monopolists who block
settlement to sell their property in small lots by
the operation of a graduated land-tax, and thus
supply lots of farms, the wretched old Herald
rises bitterly to talk of the Rights of Property.
Yet the hypocritical old Herald calls for immi-
grants—to watch the imported goods landing at
Darling Harbor, or to add another 1000 to the
1098 disappointed applicants for those 14 farms at
Brookong.
The Chinese in Adelaide are quarrelling
over the two Chinese Reform Associations—one
engineered by Mandarin Way Lee, the other by
Missionary Gee Wah. Meanwhile, no one ap-
pears to be getting reformed, and the Chinese
quarter smells just the same as ever,
Bourke (N.S.W.) nearly lost its head the
other day. The Western railway forks at Nyngan,
one line leading to Bourke, the other to Cobar.
Till lately Bourke was called the main
line, and Cobar the branch; but as Cobar has
now mueh the larger traffic, it is proposed to call
its road the main line in future, and to regard
Bourke as the branch. It doesn’t seem to make
much difference, though the S.M. Herald had
an exciting leading article on the subject, its tale
being that the retiring Railway Commissioners
shouldn’t do things like this on their own respon-
sibility, but should leave them till the towering
intellect of Johnson arrives.
The pastoralists of Australasia are now
commencing to understand the value of spraying,
whether for disease or for the eradication of
obnoxious weeds. There are millions of acres
absolutely valueless on account of growth of
prickly pear, brier, gorse, lantana, blackberries,
etc. This ground can easily be cleaned by the
use of a well-organised spraying plant. The in-
troduction of the Tyree Spray makes the opera-
tion very simple, and comparatively at low cost.
All that is necessary is a few sprays, with one
man in charge and a few lads as assistants. A
strong solution of arsenic is mixed up in a barrel ;
the machines are charged and the lads direct the
sprays on to the vegetation. In a few days the
plant dies, roots and all; and as soon as it is dry it
can be burnt off.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Bobin Hood."
Tivoli Bickards’ Co.
Bondi “Wonderland.”
Criterion “The Kelly Gang.”
Exhibition Ground Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOUBNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Mr. Hopkinson.”
Her Majesty’s “Mother Goose.”
Theatre Boyal “ The Squatter’s Daughter.”
Opera House Bickards’ Vaudeville Co.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. Dreamland.
♦
Pitt-street, Sydney, where the spielers
used to be before good Mr. Wade came with his
Gambling Act, is now infested with bushrangers.
You can’t look at a hoarding without seeing some
hero with a gun in his hand. Certainly, Julius
Knight’s gun is a bow and arrow; but in the
natural order of things, if Julius Superbus only
had a shanghai he would triumph with it before
the end of Act IY. First you meet liobin
Hood at Her Majesty’s; further along the street
it is the Kelly Gang; and, if you get
through them with a train-fare, there are
two lots of Hick Turpins storming turnpikes
down towards the railway station. It is all very
unsettling; and Aunt, when Unc-le brings her
down to the Show at the end of this month, will
hold on to her carpet bag tighter even than
usual. Of course, this involves an entire miscon-
ception on Aunt’s part. Robin, Edward, and
Richard—they are all perfect gentlemen, and
ready to rob the whole world if only a lady in
distress hints that she wants it. Robin Hood
does it, too, in such charming clothes; and if
Aunt, down from Narrabri, looks anything like
Miss Elbert-Orton does while she is being
rescued, then there are points in living at N arra-
bri, after all. There is no need to say that the
Robin piece is proving a success, reckoning it up
from the ticket-office point of view ; poor thing as
it is, it is so picturesque, and so romantic, you
know.
** * *
Bland Holt completes his Sydney season
at the Royal this week with a revival of “The
White Heather”—which play probably repre-
sents about the high-water mark of his produc-
tions. The authors of “The White Heather”
went to facts instead of vain imaginings for their
sensationalism, and accordingly scored in a dis-
tinctly reasonable way. Not having the burden
on their minds of an impossible explosive ink-
pot, or a wolf-faced murderer with a habit of
howling an overture to his homicides, they were
able to give some attention to the dialogue, and
turn out some really smart lines. Withal there
is plenty of scenic effect culminating in the fight
of divers below the sea—a “set” which is most
realistic.
* • * *
It is not a disadvantage, in the case of a
popular actor-manager who is taking his farewell,
that the piece gives him an excellent opportunity
to score ; and “him ” in this case means Bland
Holt and Mrs. Bland Holt, for they two are
one. Mrs. Holt, as the downright and witty
Lady Janet, has a star part, and shines in it
satisfactorily. As for Bland Holt, his Edgar Tre-
fusis, theatrical manager, bounder and humorist,
stands out as perhaps his best stage impersona-
tion. The other principal actors are not all so
satisfactory. There has been a noticeable slack-
ness in some members of this co. lately. Walter
Baker isn’t as convincing a villain as he might he,
because he mumbles his lines badly at times, and
the mumble causes a deplorable loss of villainous
sentiment to the audience. On the other hand,
Miss Frances Ross over-emphasises Lady Her-
mione, and on Saturday she was warned now and
again by a titter from the audience at moments
meant to be serious. “The White Heather”
continues until Friday, when Bland Holt says
good-bye to Sydney for a long spell. The present
co. disbands after its Melbourne season.
** * *
Miss Carrie Lanceley, whose tuneful
soprano would soothe a bear with a pain in its
head, will have a complimentary concert offered
her on March 25 at Sydney Centenary Hall.
** * *
“Be sure that your sins will find you
out.” Australia was responsible for the Kelly
Gang and its atrocities. It pays the penalty in
Kelly Gang plays, of which not the best is that
which occupies the Sydney Criterion stage just
• now, and which attracted an audience on Satur-
day that eclipsed even “The Fatal Wedding”
record. There is no reason at all why the play
should be popular. It is quite untrue to the
facts; it is of the jerry-built order of archi-
tecture, and even that very inefficient person,
Jerry, wasn’t at his best when he did
it; the appeals for applause are made on
the cheapest of stage tricks ; and the “humor”—
the ghastly humor of the elderly woman who
wants somebody, anybody, bushranger, bush-
whacker, or bobby, to run away with her—is
punishment enough for the sins of the Kellys and
of the Borrowing Boom in addition. Yet “The
Kelly Gang” goes. On Saturday night the theatre
was packed, and the audience throughout was
either cheerful and satisfied or stunned and under
the influence of drink. The acting calls for no com-
ment. It was suitable to the theme, and there
the subject had better drop. But the players—
or some of them—were probably capable of better
things. Even “the specially inaugurated
auxiliary staff,” about which the programme
spoke, may hav.e had capacity concealed about it
somewhere.
** * *
At the Tivoli, Fanny Power is struggling
with what, up to date, is about the most difficult
“imitation” she ever tried —the majestic Miss
Whittaker’s demand dat de congregation shall
now stand up. And she is struggling with it
pretty successfully. For the rest, Bluett is hold-
ing the Australian end aloft in a bill brimming
with turns that are a bit above the average, with
Gracie Graham a bit more above the average than
the rest.
*****
The bueker still jumps at Wonderland
City and unseats the rider, whose fall is to the
onlookers the funniest thing outside Katzen-
jammer. Yesterday (Wednesday) was the joyful
day fixed for the closing of the ballot and the elec-
tion of the Queen of Wonderland City. On Satur-
day the potentatess-elect will be crowned,
unless she resists too violently. If the honor falls
to some lady who flatly refuses to have anything
to do with the business, arrangements will be
made to kidnap her and bring her out to Wonder-
land struggling violently in a dress basket. This
will be the second coronation in Australian his-
tory. The first took place a few months ago,
when the Emperor Judkins I. had the ti-tree
crown put on his astonished head at some kind of
a bun-conflict.
Circus will re-appear in Prince
Alfred Park, Sydney, on Saturday night. The
doors will be thrown open ao 7 p.m., so that
people can smell the animals for an hour before
bemg reduced to a dazed state by the wonders of
th. Aow itself. The company, ntless p“vid?nS
bucked, arrived by special steamer after this issue
went to press, and was conveyed to its destina-
tion in vehicles pushed or drawn by the ele-
cts, of which the Wirths have seven. Of
the 27 items of which the show consists 20
are said to be entirely new shockers. The
flying Herberts, or human sky rockets
will be kept to the last, so that people who dislike
to see pretty girls flying through the air in immi-
nent nsk of being reduced to fragments can see
all there is to see, and leave before the flying
thrdl comes on. The star this trip is Hugh
Jratnck Lloyd, who defies gravity on a rope
attached to a strong steel spring, and ac-
companies his defiance by music, which
he extracts from a violin while balancing
himself _ on his ear, or revolving on his
m • a . xis > or somet hing equally choice. Miss
Philipina, the lady somersault rider, is said to be
responsible for quite a lot of excitement, but the
r * c “. rare items are in the menagerie. In
addition to the usual stock of wild beasts and things
that bite, there are a 30ft. python, oudads (what-
e T ver they may be), tapirs, a sloth that hangs from
the ridge-pole, a gorilla or two, and ajabberwock.
** * *
“Mr. Hopkinson,” introduced to Aus-
tralia at Melb. Princess’s last Saturday, is a
brilliantly cynical-farcical comedy dealing with a
section of British society of which this country in
general knows nothing. With the exception of
“Lord and Lady Algy,” none of R. 0. Carton’s
clever plays have scored a considerable Aus-
tralian success. They are not easy to act. The
atmosphere of this play is quite foreign, and the
characters and happenings that may be truthful
enough in Mayfair, appear fictitious to people
who have never thought about modem
earls and dukes in the old-world way,
and don’t go to the theatre to study the
manners and customs of London’s best-dressed
drones. “Mr. Hopkinson” is only satirically
truthful, the satires and cynicisms being more
subtle than one gets from an elementary humorist
like J. M. Barrie. If the subject of the satire were
a matter of popular interest, the bright dialogue
might go for all it is worth, but the story could
never appeal to public sympathy in the smallest
degree. It touches nobody’s heart. Even the
broadest and crudest of farcical comedies serves to
tickle the emotions of many persons if it presents
a commonplace husband suffering from the effects
of a harmless attempt to deceive his wife and his
mother-in-law. The titled characters in Carton’s
comedy are under no moral obligation to keep
themselves unspotted before their world. They
have no middle-class virtue, nor any fear of being
found out. A representative Australian audience
never gets in mental touch with them. They are
caviare to the amphitheatre.
• m ■*
Hopkinson is an up-to-date edition of
Tittlebat Titmouse, in Warren’s “ Ten Thousand
a Year.” Hopkinson, the grocer’s counter-
jumper, is suddenly promoted to an income
of £40,000 a year, and the Duchess of
Braceborough takes charge of the capitalist,
and tells her niece to marry him. Ulti-
mately the niece sickens at the thought of
swal'owing the gilded pill. As the daughter of a
hundied earls, she can swallow pretty well any-
thing that means money, but she takes exception
to Hopkinson because he has a frugal mind. A
chivalrous lord, who is the hero of all the latest
fashionable divorce cases, comes to the rescue of
the bride-elect and marries her, after having bor-
rowed £lOOO from the Duchess’s best boy to pay
the costs of the honeymoon. The Duchess’s best
boy (the Duke’s best girl is another man’s wife
whom the audience never sees) is not able to
advance £lOOO of his own, but he kindly borrows
the money from Hopkinson. Meanwhile, a wily
little vixen, who walked out with Hoppy in his
grocery days, has invaded the Duchess’s domicile
in the character of a lady’s-maid, and the trouble
she causes is the life-blood of the performance.
Eliza is the little piece of plain, unvarnished
human nature which raises the all-round larf—the
acid-drop of womanhood which is familiar to all
palates—the eternal She who perks her chin at an
angle of 45 degrees, and is most eloquent when
she merely utters a sniff. A fat British ambassa-
dor from Madrid arrives upon the scene soon
after Eliza, and contributes timely groans of
internal pain to the proceedings. Also there is a
family lawyer, and some pleasing furniture and
fittings.
* ■* * •
Hugh Ward, in the name part, presents a
bright, exaggerated picture of a conceivable cad.
It is a caricature of Hopkinson artistically over-
done. George Willoughby’s toddlesome perform-
ance of the groaning ambassador is equally laugh-
able, though not at all artistic. Miss Gillian
Scarfe is a bitterly truthful Eliza Dibbs, and
Miss Wilton acts the character of the bride-elect
better than she looks it. For the rest, it is im-
possible to accept Miss Palotta as a cynical
duchess (outside of musical comedy), but she is
at least pleasantly unconvincing, whereas the men
are unpardonable.
*« * *
The panto, at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne,
will end its long innings on Monday night with a
score of 98 performances in all. A final “Mother
Goose Excursion ” is due on Friday. When the
panto, and all its belongings have been cleared
from the premises, the management will start
preparations for “Parsifal,” the first Melbourne
performance whereof, on a new stage and an im-
pressive scale of splendor, is promised for the 23rd.
** * *
Fifth week of “ The Squatter’s Daughter ”
at Melbourne Royal finds that effusively Aus-
tralian melodrama going as strong as ever. George
Cross and Miss Duggan rescue one another from
their mutual enemies with unfailing courage, and
the full rising moon reflects darkness on the
landscape as it did in the beginning. Melbourne
provides two large forces of patrons for “The
Squatter’s Daughter”—the one that takes it
seriously as a story of strange adventure, and the
other one that gets ample satisfaction from the
spectacular effects and the wild Andersonian
roars of approval.
At the Town Hall, the first re-appearance of
Miss Una Bourne happens to-night (Thursday),
when that tall and gifted pianiste will play star
Kart in a concert of serious musical construction.
ladame Amy Sherwin starts a short series
of singings on the following Thursday. In
the meantime there is a St. Patrick’s Night
concert to be disposed of, and, seeing that St.
Patrick was born on a Sunday this year, the
Wearing of the Green will get its greatest annual
opportunity on the 16th.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Bates Charged.
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
and ONLY KIBE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. HOWABD POPE, Manager.
=* .
-a
M
96 Queen-street, Woollahra, Sydney,
Messrs. Fisher & Co. 7/12/’O6.
Dear Sirs, —Vim, Elasticity, and Nerve Power are absolute essentials
for a teacher of Jiu-Jitsu and Professor of Physical Culture.
Both myself and pupils find FISHER'S PHOSPHERINE unrivalled
as a Tonic to invigorate the whole human system. To combat the after
and weakening effects of Influenza I have found FISHER’S PHOS-
PHERINE invaluable to set me up good and strong. I write the above
to benefit my fellows, voluntarily, without any monetary consideration
whatever, and confirm the same on oath.
I believe FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE to be one of the Finest
Medicines on earth.
Prof. P. W. STEVENSON,
Physical Culture and Jiu»Jitsu Instructor to the Police
of N.S.W., Victoria, and Queensland.
Declared before me, LEONARD GABRIEL, J.P.
THE MOST FAMOUS TOWIC,
FisHer’s Phospherine
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/-; FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2/6.
Sole Manufacturers—
FISHER & CO.. Chemists. 337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
\
At the Opera House the pretentious feats
of strong man Brinn have been restored to the
bill, and that small but sturdy person is offering
£5 to any rival weight-lifter who will hump a
sack of flour off the stage. The Charlenes, like-
wise Antonio’s educated dogs and monkeys, will
continue to head the list of seasoned items for a
while longer, but Charles Fletcher is to gather up
his wigs and grease-paint and depart from Mel-
bourne at the end of the week.
** * *
“ Home, Sweet Home,” at Adelaide Royal,
is an emotional domestic drama, with spasms of
melo, the kind of thing of which the English
public never tires. It is a long way ahead of
“ The Face at the Window ” on the one side, and
« The Fatal Wedding ” on the other. The pan-
tomime has passed on, after a successful fortnight.
It was good without being great. The roller-
skating of F. Norris and the familiar but wel-
come knockabout business of Morris and Wilson
were bright spots in it. There is nothing stand-
ing out particularly in the Tivoli programme
(except the occasional cropping up of Prof.
Williams, who was buried at Glenelg at Christ-
mas); the management ingeniously meets this
fact by calling it an “all-star” company. Still-
well, the conjuror, has been at the Hippodrome,
which now revives the ancient “Muldoon’s
Picnic” ; the Rough-riders are rough-riding every
evening, and the Exhibition runs concerts, the
explanation being that Show week crowds the
city. Leslie Harris has come back to the Town
Hall, and gives much the same artistically funny
evening as of old. He is supported by the
inevitable Biograph ; they are good pictures, but
the public would rather have its two hours of.
unadulterated Harris.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Shakspe". vs and myself ” is a phrase made use of by
George Bernard Shaw when called upon, a month ago, to
say a few words at a lecture on “ The Business Side of the
Elizabethan Theatre,” at King’s College, London. Still,
it might have been worse. A vainer man would have
said “ Me and Bill.”
“Converted” ex-actress Ada Ward, who is in Aus-
tralia on a “blood and fire” rampage with the
Salvarmy, concerning the religious play:—“ Oh 1 the
misery and wrong which have been caused by ‘ The Sign of
the Cross.’ It made £lOO,OOO for Wilson Barrett, but did
it do anything for God? I acted in it before my conver-
sion, and I know the mockery and shame that were be-
hind the devout scenes on the stage. An actor would
come off, and say, ‘Wasn’t that well played?’ or an
actress, ‘Didn’t I sing that hymn beautifully and
piously?’ I tell you that I have statistics to show the
misery and wretchedness caused by that play. Girls and
boys were tempted by their clergymen to leave the
Sunday school and see this play—and they never went
back again. The religious appeal! I have been inside
these plays, and I know better. It is not the work of God
that appeals to theatrical managers.” [No; it is “The
Kelly Gang.”]
Interesting allegations in one of the circulars issued by
the London music-hall strikers : “ There is a gang of the
most unscrupulous blackguards connected with the profes-
sion, acting both as managers and agents, who not only
fleece the poor artists right and left by secret and other
commissions, but to whom no woman’s honor is sacred.”
“Micawber”: Whatever may be the ultimate issue of
the English music-hall strike, it is pretty certain that
some of the leading artists can now say good-bye to their
former greatness. London has suffered a surfeit of Marie
Lloyd, Alec. Hurley, George Robey, &c., &c. Smart
agents had booked these artists well up into 1912, and
this, mind you, on the strength of their present,
or past, abilities. What is the result? They hardly
ever change their business, and the sameness of
things becomes dreadful to contemplate. I could fill .the
“ Poverty Point ” page with the names of high-class (?)
London artists who have been back-numbers for years.
To quote Ernest Welburn Hall, the variety critic of
London : “ I have before me a list of salaries payable to a
dozen distinguished artists now on strike. They range
from £BO to £lOO per week each. With all due respect
to these people, I would not give them as many
shillings. If their faces were blackened, and they were
immersed in a minstrel troupe they would not draw
worth a cent. Individuality they have none.” The strike
will be practically the death-knell of such artists as
and and ", who have been living on a dead re-
putation, when they should have been shovelling coke.
It almost makes me weep to think how much good coke
is waiting to be shovelled, while good shovellers are sing-
ing dull songs to people who don’t enjoy them, but
think they do, because they have heard that it is the
correct thing to think so.
“Eli”: Have talked to Ada Ward, once actress, no
evangelist and Gospel-glory preacher. She isnt young
now—she was 25 years on the stage before she *>c a i
■seven years ago, to relate her experiences for the benefit
of Salvarmy audiences. But old as she is, she retains her
fine stage presence, her graceful dramatic ffesture and
her expressive play of features. Her face is wrinkled
and her eyes don’t sparkle like Other Eyes (which both
you and I know), but her fine auburn hair is still .glossy
Managers would still engage her—especially with the
added advertisement of her Renunciation and her
Mission. Asyoumeethernow, she is a queer mixture of the
three or four different persons she has been during her life.
She will talk for a while with the ordinary worldly person s
cynical appreciation of facts regarding the follies and
weaknesses of human nature. Then she will become the
pure and unadulterated “pro.,” swapping items of
theatrical gossip as though she would never tire of it.
But when you let her pull out the religious stop, it is
lhard to switch her on to any other. She then enthuses
:about the Loard as emotionally as any Hallelujah lass or
Wesley Mission maiden. The fourth person who leaps to
Hight in her conversation is the shrewd theatrical adver-
tiser. She talks of “My great lecture,” “My striking
address," and she has as great a hoard of press cuttings
as any star in the legitimate business. She has iett
one stage for another —that is all. She is strong
on the, temptations of the stage —ranging from
the stout that the chorus ladies order in the
dressing-room when the play is over, to the in-
gratiating smile of the manager or the Leading
Gentleman, in whose tender hands promotion may
lie. Ada Ward will be successful in her Melbourne
season, having snared the Argus, Age, and Herald
into more or less picturesque interviews. After
the honor of meeting Ada, I met Somebody Else, to
whom I related the “lady evangelist’s” grand remon-
strance against the worldly life. “Hum!” quoth Some-
body viciously, “ she had her own fling first. Which is
si wholly human view of the situation.
Ben Hur, “ the pocket Hercules,” of Wonderland City,
iis another instance of an Australasian who hides his
•origin under an alias. If Bill Jones sticks to his
'unadorned name he stays in an obscure corner of the bill,
tout Biljono is the kind of remark thatis given a chance to
impress the public on the hoardings. Ben Hur is a quiet-
spoken Maorilander, born in Wellington, and of French
descent. His real name is Liardet. He is a well-developed
Stripling for his 20 years, a,nd his 9st. 121 b. looks imposing
when the man “in front ” splashes the limelight on his
manly form. His weight-lifting (he can support half a
ton) is really remarkable considering his own poundage.
He began in a casual way six years ago to develop his
physique after reading a pamphlet on the subject, and
(the half-ton is as far as he has got yet.
According to Miss Ada Ward, now preaching in Mel-
bourne with special reference to the wickedness of the
theatre, tights are destructive to morality. The tighter
ithe tights, the slacker the morality. It is a quaint para-
dox that the tightness of a lady’s tights should imply a
looseness in her habits.
“ Carpenter ” : Stung to the brain by The Bulletin’s
'suggestion that Pastor Carey’s baptisms in his Collins-
,street church should be impounded by a dramatist as a
new and vivid situation, I hasten to copyright a scenario.
Hois and Eunice are sisters, as much alike as those twin
Villiers who became Lady Lytton and Lady Loch, wife of
Victoria's Governor. They have strangely diverse engage-
ments for the night of April 1. Lois is to be baptised by
iimmersion that evening, Eunice is to sing the part of
Astrafiammante, Queen of Night, in Mozart’s opera of
■“The Magic Flute,” with full scenery, costumes, and
orchestra. However, Lois dies on that very day. Her
death-scene is shown in a terrible manner, with her injunc-
tion for Eunice to take her place in the baptismal pool.
Now you have the emotions of Eunice in packing up her
magnificent robe for the Queen of Night—black gauze
with silver stars, jewelled crown to match, and a
silver fairy stick, headed by an immense Barrios diamond.
All have to be sent, by managerial direction, to Annie
Winkles, a hated rival. Eunice, with her feelings har-
rowed, tries on the black gown, with its white collar and
cuffs, in which Lois was to have been dipped. Next we have
the Theatre Royal, behind the scenes. Excited preparations
for the opera of “ The Magic Flute.” Curtain just about
to go up.* Overture heard at the other side. Everyone
asks, “Where’s Eunice?” as Annie Winkles stalks
majestically through the motley crowd in the robes of
the Queen of Night. I want to convey that all this is a
vision in the mind of Eunice as she sits in Lois’s black
gown in the Baptist church with five other girls, one of
them thin and one red-headed, similarly dressed. So the
theatre scene quickly melts into that of the Baptist
church interior, painted, peopled and arranged with all
the genius evinced in Bland Holt’s scene of the interior
of a"tlieatre. The great marble baptismal font of real
water is as far forward as possible. In front of the
congregation is the pew-full of girls in black gowns.
Beautiful original sacred music by organ, choir and
•orchestra, composed by Professor Hazon, “ Come Sister,
Plunge into the Flood.” An impressive gentleman is the
clergyman in a white surplice. He descends into the
water up to his waist. Sensation! Then a handsome
young lady in pink muslin, with black Pompadour hat, Miss
Julia Cleverdon, second soprano of the choir, leads Eunice
gently forward. As striking as Mercia going to the
lions 1 She hesitates a moment at the edge, clasps her
hands, looks upwards in the limelight, and goes firmly
down the steps into the water. She stands facing the
real audience, and with the real water almost to her real
bosom. It is all real. Glorious burst of music as she is
plunged under. Curtain. Blas6 habitues go out exclaim-
ing “There is something new under the limelight.”
An English court has given an astonishing verdict
against Miss Gertie Millar, a popular actress, in her
action against a photographer who had faked pictures
showing her head on a nude female figure, and on cer-
tain scantily-clothed productions. Unfortunately for
her, the case was tried before Judge Darling, a notorious
funny man, and he took the whole thing in a comic vein,
till the jury was induced to laugh the claim out of court.
The laborious funny man is out of place on the Bench.
And the funny man, who only thinks it a joke that a
woman should be represented to the world as a person
who sells her nude figure on commistion, is out of place
everywhere except in the ash-barrel.
“K.”: Re par. concerning Louis Bayer’s cow opera
(8.28/2/’O7). Bayer is a capital musician, and has written
quite a number of operas, none of which has got further
away than his own district—Warrnambool and Camper-
down (Vic.). This is due to the fact that the libretto of
the operas is something unspeakable. I know that the
libretto of some of the best operas is not above reproach ;
but Bayer’s libretto is unique. This is due partly to the
fact that he was a full-grown German when he came out
here —he speaks with ’an accent now ; but chiefly
because, although he thoroughly understands music, he
doesn’t know what rhyme means. I heard his “ Muut-
chaaka ” once. It finishes with a very solemn chant over
a dead aboriginal, and closes —
The morning sun saw yet
Our hero full of life ;
By moonlight we regret
The last man of his tribe.
Bayer’s humorous verse is a thing to be shuddered at.
This new opera, for example, has a man buying a
paddockful of steers to start a dairy. Considering the
real merit of Bayer’s music, it is a great pity that he does
not collaborate with a good writer. Then his stuff would
have some chance. It hasn’t even half a ghost’s chance
now.
More Castles in Melbourne. A suburban concert
organiser bills “ Len Castles, tenor vocalist of the Famous
Family—another Marvel from Bendigo.” Gilbert’s sol-
diers confessed that they could tire even of toffee, and
patrons of musical entertainments begin to think that
the plea of relationship to the more or less wonderful
Amy is being considerably overworked.
“ Don’t talk to me about ‘ Mother Goose,’ ” said a
mature drink-server in one of the pubs adjacent to Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne). “ Pantomimes have degenerated
terribly since my young days. Fancy calling a thing
with only one interval a pantomime ! ”
Adolphe Borschkfc, the ladylike Pole, seems to have
tickled*the popular fancy in America whilst earning the
respect of the cognoscenti. Newspaper notices refer to
the guileless young man as “ the Trilby of the Piano-
forte ” and “the Pianist of the Future."
THE LATE JOSEPH SYMES, OF
MELBOURNE "LIBERATOR.”
“Eros”: Re that donkey of Hugh Ward’s in “The
New Clown.” He is not a Melbourne donkey. He is
a Manly donkey. He is insured for £l2O, and is
touring with Hugh at £3 a week. During re-
hearsal at Sydney Cri., he brayed “ He-Haw at a
most suitable moment. Hugh excitedly offered to
double the animal’s salary if he would bray at the same
moment every night, but Neddy didn’t even give a civil
answer. And he never brayed again.
A “Kelly Gang" play was produced at a suburban
hall, the other week, by a versatile combination of stars.
Most of the people in the cast were used to variety busi-
ness, and couldn’t persuade themselves to do without at
least a few songs and dances. These items were dragged
in, shrieking, at any opportunity or none. When Ned
Kelly was hemmed in on every side, he soliloquised,
“ Ah, why did I ever come to this beastly Australia? But
what could I expect—fool that I was to leave ‘ My Little
Yankee Belle of Naragansett ’! ” Then the orchestra
(one piano) struck up the prelude to the pathetic
American ballad which Ned wanted to chuck off his
chest. The schoolmaster who saved the train was turned
into an eccentric Dutchman with wooden shoes and a
song and dance. Kate Kelly came on in one scene in a
“ golliwog ” make-up, and explained that she had dis-
guised herself in order to foil the troopers. Then she
gave a coon song, and paused for a moment to announce
that she would now introdooce the latest New York and
London wing dance. Dan Kelly wore a kilt, and alleged
that he was “frae Paisley, ye ken,” and one of the
troopers found some drawing-room furniture lying loose
aboutthe bush, and gave an exhibition of his“ unrivalled
chair-juggling act.” Altogether, it was a riotous per-
formance7and j ust now ‘ ‘ The Kelly Gang ” is more idolised
than ever in that suburb.
“ Silas *: I wonder how the thousands who applaud
and rejoice in the little child in popular melodrama
would like to have to live with the eloquent monstrosity.
I am a lover of children. 1 love them even for their bad
qualities, when they are the delightful natural bad quali-
ties of babes and sucklings. But I abominate the stage
“ cheeild ” as a little horror, with all the shocking charac-
teristics of its melodramatic elders. When the stage
child arises to defend its ma from the encroach-
ments of the evil fellow in the frock coat, she
defies him in precisely the same language as the
stupid but flatulent hero would use in similar
circumstances. The stage child of six addresses God in
precisely the terms the heroine employs. She has the
same elderly, time-worn platitudes about the conven-
tions, the same moral bias, and the same detestable habit
of delivering little preachments at the gallery. The other
night I saw the baby girl in her pure white nightie spring
in between the heroine (also in her pure white nightie)
and the insidious villian, crying; “Stand back! You
shall not harm thislady. I am only a leetle geerl, but I will
not permit it. You shall keel me first! ” Then the
villain staggered ten steps and cowered, and the audience
fairly shrieked with rapture.
Olga Nethersole, who played “ Sapho ” in America, and
was prosecuted, has another pale-blue drama called
“ Dedale.” It tells of Man 1, who is so bad that his wife
divorces him, and marries Man 2. Later she and Man 1
meet, and have a long discussion on the benefits of
divorce. Man 1 doesn't like divorce. The woman begins
to get doubtful. Man 1 pleads passionately for a re-
union. The lady wavers, and the curtain drops with the
suggestion that the woman will be unfaithful to Man 2,
and that Man 1 will be co-respondent in his ex-wife’s
divorce case. Act the last is really pleasant. Man 1 and
Man 2 meet and wrangle on the edge of a cliff. The
woman has had a child. Man 1 says, enthusiastically,
that it is his. Man 2 says, triumphantly, that it is his.
The woman, who knows that both are wrong, suicides.
Man 1 and Man 2 fight. There is a pistol shot. One is
killed instantly, and the other topples over the cliff-edge,
and the poor child is left an orphan. Man 3 apparently
lives happily ever afterwards.
“ Haresfoot ” : Re the Younges and the Youngs re-
cently mentioned in “ Poverty Point.” Richard W.
Younge came to Australia with Brooke. He was a some-
what pragmatical little man, rather like Olarance Holt.
His brother, Frederick Younge, came three years later,
and made a hit as Blenkinsop, a footman, in “The
Unequal Match,” with Ellen Mortyn. Later, he was
Khorsanbad, in the “ Lalla Rookh ” burlesque, with much
iclat. Neild said he was much superior to Charles Young
and Stewart, who alternated Khorsanbad in Barry Sulli-
van’s gorgeous Christmas production, when the double
harlequinade included four Edouins and four Leopolds.
Two of the octette remain—Rose and Willie Edouin.
Fred Younge resembled Jefferson. When Brooke
quarrelled with Coppin, he appointed the Younges his
managers at the Royal, but turned them off in favor of
Robert Heir. The outcome was that Brooke lost £30,000
—according to Coppin. Both Younges, after a brief
spell of management at Ooppin’s Olympic on their own
hook, returned to England. Fred was a great friend of
Tom Robertson, and had the luck to tumble in
as the original George D’Alroy of “ Caste."
He was killed in a railway accident. Richard
Younge returned to Australia with Fechter’s amended
way of acting Othello. This wa> unprofitably shown
off by Younge at Ooppin’s Melbourne Haymarket.
Going back again to England, Younge, known best as a
stage villain, turned to low comedy. W. Duck made a
lot of money with the provincial rights of “Our Boys.”
Younge bought them, and acted Perkyn Middlewick, the
butterman, with applause. Mr. and Mrs. Charles Young
came from Launceston to Melbourne with Ooppin. Some
years afterwards Young and Hydes managed the Mel-
bourne Queen’s. They were there up to Brooke’s appear-
ance. Mrs. Young wonderfully developed as an actress,
but Fanny Cathcart ruled the roost in the estimation of
Brooke and Ooppin. So the Youngs went to London.
Both landed on their feet. Charley did well in bur-
lesque. Mrs. Young succeeded Miss Rushton in a leading
partin “Our American Cousin,” with Sothern as Dun-
dreary. She divorced Young, and married Vezin.
Strange to add, the most successful parts she
acted” afterwards were in new plays by Sir Charles
Young, such as “Jim the Penman” and “Lady
Clare.” She suicided, as alleged, by throwing her-
self from a window, because of her daughter’s death.
Charles Young was pretty well ruined by the London
bruit of the divorce. He returned to Melbourne, opening
at the Royal with “ A Friend in Need ” and the burlesque
of “ Dido,” written for him by Burnand. His next con-
spicuous engagement was with Barry Sullivan. He broke
it by refusing to act Tony Lumpkin on short notice, and
Stewart replaced him. Afterwards Sullivan had both of
them in his superb company, with Mr. and Mrs. Heir,
Lambert, C. Vincent, and Miss Cleveland. Truly a fine
galaxy in “ The Hunchback.” Young waned after Barry
Sullivan had gone. Coppin and other friends put him
into a Carlton pub, but he failed. He died in Sydney
under the most terrible combination of afflictions that
ever befel a comedian in my knowledge, and that is
saying a great deal.
“ Here lieth one whose name was writ in
water.” Is that a poetic way of saying “ His
name was mud ? ”
It was James Thomas Fallon, the elder
brother of Patrick Edward, just dead at the age
of 79, who started the wine business at Albury
(N.S.W.) on its successful career. James
Thomas, while M.L.A., spent most of his time
studying Australian wine prospects. The busi-
ness had been uniformly bungled, but he picked
out an Albury vineyard which had been going to
the bad for 20 years, and appointed himself
owner and manager. He quickly put new life
in the concern, and the just-deceased Patrick
Edward tried to keep it going.
For the Vic. State elections, Colechin,
M.L.A., is being opposed at Geelong by the hair-
less and obsolete Gurr. Gurr is the man who, when
Turner made him Minister of Education, tore
round the country declaring that he was peculiarly
fitted for the position, as he had once taught
Sunday School. He was also, for three months,
Postmaster-General of Victoria without salary,
and promised Geelong a clock which it never got.
Geelong threw him out badly in 1902 and rejected
him with even greater fury in 1904. Since then
he has been trying a new hair restorer.
Prime Minister Deakin’s harmonious dis-
course should have a soothing influence at the
Imperial Conference. But not unless he is
judiciously primed with D.C.L. Whisky will
Alfred’s flow of reason be equal to his flow of
speech. If D.C.L. gets a fair chance it will
stimulate that Conference to wise achievements
in spite of all reactionary opposition. It must
have the chance.*
“Melb.” : Just dead, John Fisher, barri-
ster. He emerged into some bruit over the trial
of* Gerald H. Supple for shooting at George
Paton Smith, in Latrobe-street, Melbourne.
Supple fired at Smith, who reasonably bolted.
Walshe, landlord of the Star of the East
pub, interposed. Walshe either received a
bullet that Supple meant for Smith, or else
Supple, who was cross-eyed and very short-
sighted, fired at Walshe thinking him to he
Smith. Walshe was equally dead either way.
Supple was defended by Higinbotham, and
Fisher raised a point as amicus curice. It was
no kind of a point, but it caused a lot of argu-
ment, and the Law got so interested over Fisher’s
point that it forgot to hang Supple. He was
sentenced to imprisonment for life when the Law
had time to remember him, but when Smith
died, about eight years afterwards, he got a free
pardon, though why, seeing that Walshe was still
dead, he should have been pardoned because
Smith was dead also, it is hard to say. Then he
went to Maoriland and resumed journalism. His
insanity was as fairly arguable as that of Thaw.
G. P. Smith was a noted Age writer, and became
Attorney-General,
Premier Carruthers, at Tamworth (N.S.
Wales), concerning the resumption of the Peel
River Estate: —
In justification of the policy of the Government in
resuming this land, as against bringing in a Progressive
Land Tax, the fact has to be looked at that the company
would pay the tax, and would sell its land in lots of, say,
10,000 or 15,000 acres per year, as they got men to take
up the land, on their own terms and conditions of
residence. THE UNSOLD AREAS WOULD INCREASE
IN VALUE, and the farmers would have to pay the
piper.
There is a remarkable lack of unanimity among
the Anti-Sosh crowd as to the effect of a Pro-
gressive Land Tax. Greid and Co. stigmatise the
tax as “Confiscation,” and allege that it would so
glut the market and force down prices that owners
would receive considerably less than the land is
worth. It would be criminal, say Greid and Co.,
to make the poor landowner take less than a just
price for his land. Carruthers, however, says fee
isn’t taking any Progressive Land Tax because it
would enable the owner to exploit the people, by
compelling them to pay more than a just price.
Now what would that graduated land-tax do !
THE CORNER MAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He stands upon the corner of the street,
Where human tides from many quarters meet,
And, with dull, lack-lustre eye,
He beholds the crowd pass by—
And wonders how they all get food to eat.
He leans against a tall verandah post;
A hungry, thirsty, dismal daylight ghost;
And he hears the laughter loud
Of that ever-moving crowd,
Who talk as if they had the Earth on toast.
He sometimes falls asleep upon his feet,
And then the proud policeman on his beat,
With a sudden, surly shake
The poor derelict will wake
From dreams— delightful dreams—of beer and meat..
But, sometimes, when a Fat Man passes by,
A wolfish glitter lights his weary eye,
And he seems about to say—
“ I will grind your bones some day
For bread,” but doesn’t say it; he’s too shy.
A hopeless gaze he fixes on the banks,
Where gold is stored in steel and concrete tanks ;
And the Fat Man, walking in,
Signs a cheque—which is a sin—
And gets it cashed, and says not even “ Thanks.
The people pass and notice not his grief,
For they are full of bread and full of beef,
Full of beer and shandygaff,
And they lightly laugh and chaff;
And nobody will bring to him relief.
He has a pipe—perhaps it’s but a clay—
But no tobacco ; in a dismal way
He goes through his haggard vest,
On a dull, despairing quest
For fluff to smoke—his appetite to stay.
In vain ; he shakes his mane of touzled hair.
The world for him no smoke nor drink will spare.
Yet the people—full of food—
Pray to God, the Just and Good :
The Man upon the Corner thinks He’s dead.
OREEVE ROE.


Deafness Official Tests
T HE °® cia I l l "'; e ,?l iB '‘), tions of the are well described
e REVIEW,” explaining- fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of the inner ear' •
the Causes and Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c &c ’
and how to cure yourself at your own home with'pure
nat ,u r T al Au™ l Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity
and No Ear-Drums necessary. J *
The Welt,-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart
OF 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderful EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes : “ I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving every day.”
An Ex-Postmaster writes: “Your EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried; all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE ” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
SOCIETY
The death of Profit Powiej who went back
!.° . miV' 0 PBfir.qat after feebly calling out “ Stink-
not . for a while in Mekico* Seems as if it Wet-e
a , / ollotVßd oy tliß Gbllapse of Zibh itself.
Australia’s tecfeht acquaintance, YoliVa, thfe
Humble tbablibi; Whd droyb abbut £2OO Worth of
nOrse-neSh, ahd looked like a desperately swift
eoriiru'ercial traveller or an advt. for a new hair-
restorer is in charge now, and attends to any
cursing that may be necessary, and he has decided
to leave the old location and light out for Cali-
fornia with the Baithful. Whether there is
enough left to be worth removing of the Zion
-Bank, and of the other enterprises with which
i)owie of the Whiskers muddled so profoundly
doesn t appear. But there is still a considerable
herd of believers with retreating brows and chinS;
who will migrate with the h«W Profit to California
UrtlbsS that Stdte puts up a rabbit-proof fence.
Iliey joined the church in the belief that Dowie
was divinely-inspired, and could heal the sick by
prayer ; and though he never healed anybody, and
was himself cast out as a fraud and a roaring
impostor, and the only reason for the church’s
existence has thus been removed, destroyed, and
bowled out, the church still exists. Churches are
harder to kill than even the kind of turtle men-
tioned in “ Aboriginalities.”
still op The same op in ion,
“ Only three years ago you used to say I
was a dream.”
"Well, you’ve no reason to be disappointed
with yourself. You’re a bit of a night-
mare now.”
N.S.W. Divorce Justice Simpson was out
loaded for paragraphs in his court last Thursday
and his obiter dicta had their reward in the news-
papers. Some of his moralising was more than
ordinarily silly. For instance
Jurymen had a better acquaintance with the world
generally than judges, who from their position in life
were withdrawn from worldly matters, and did not
understand so well as jurymen would understand what
might go on in certain positions in life. His Honor
admitted that he had had a good deal of knowledge of
the world, but he had lost it by reason of his solitary
existence as a judge.
This is the folly of the judicial pretence of ignor-
ance of mundane affairs raised to the nth degree
A Judge, we all know, lives the usual life of a
man. He may, when he climbs the Bench, be a
little more discreet than he was before, but he
sheds no organs. His tongue can still taste, his
ear prick to a tale, and his eye rove to a pretty
girl. Likewise he remembers all his slang and
takes just as’keen an interest in the boat race
as before. The attempt to foster the idea that
the Judge is an ascetic, aloof person, who
ponders on isolated heights, can’t succeed. We
know our Judges.
/•■va'w 11 ® 1* months a Bourke
(N.S.W.) publican has discovered four suicides on
his premises. Now a gruesome local humorist
advises him to erect a gallows in the yard for the
convenience of liis customers,
* * * *
Manager Todd, of the Sydney Berries,
Ltd., told the Arbitration Court last Week that a
“ a Ti? f , 22 sas5 as a yonth-he Was still growing,
Whiskers?” observed one of the deck-hands in
the body of the court, and though the whisper
tiidn t teach the witness, the Court smiled. The
law regards a male person of 21 as a man, and, by
Virtue of his manhood, gives him a Vote, but the
Sydney Ferries, Ltd., which, Oh its oWn ad-
mission, paid a married man of 28, With one child,
r 1 a week, is, or has beeh up to the date of the
present proceed]hgs, a laW unto itsfelf, ahd Me-
thuselah, the deck-nahfl, has remained a kid hiitil
the co. cndse to say differeiitly.
* * *
fraud of tile most glaring type
blown out by a Fijian missionary at Sydney
Methodist Conference last week. The visitor was
ridiculing the custom of parading allegedly con-
vertsd Fijians in Sydney for the sake of raking in
u'n j e and said that one massive islander,
billed as Ratu something or other, was im-
ported from Fiji, not on account of his Chris-
tianity, but because of his immense calves. Also
tins glorified church leg-show, instead of being
±tatu, which means prince, was a most plebeian
person, who would never by any chance have been
given the choice cuts off a missionary at an old-
time banquet, and so far from being addicted to
piety, he had to be bailed out or have a nolle pro-
sequi entered on his behalf before he could come
r? Sydney and Pose as a bulbous-legged brand
that had been snatched from the burning.
* * 4 «
The troubles of one Hazelton afd Still
thick upon him. Three years ago Hazel ton ahd
°L?!l ant met . lh th e. Solomon Islands, and
thoughthey comprised a large proportion of the
White population, they had a row. Unluckily
(Who previously had had the job
lindself) the other Was. then British Resident,
Judge; jury, Attdriffiy.Gbneral, Public Prosecu-
tor, Witness, police constable arid bailiff. Against
this galaxv of talent Hazelton bad no show, and
he received a sentence of three months from Oli-
phant, to be served as soon as he could find a gaol.
To emphasise his authority, Oliphant issued a sheaf
ot warrants, one of which reached Sydney. Subse-
quently, the belligerents made it up,' and'Hazel ton
apologised to the Judge, jury, etc. But, unfortu-
nately Oliphant forgot the warrants, and the
law tell on Hazelton when he visited Australia.
Hazelton proceeded for damages, not against
Oliphafitj but dgrtinst tjhfe Crown, which seemed
ooon V j been % best ’ and fvh-S d Warded
7',.. damages by a jury which did not seem td
think much of Oliphant. The Crown appealed,
and has got the verdict upset, with costs against
Hazelton, who seems to have struck a snag all
through the piece, hut has still large hopes that
the other party will strike the final snag in the
High Court.
* * * *
Touching a recent Bulletin par. and inci-
dental illustration re rural “ training homes ” for
Victorian children, the honorary sec. of the Bur-
wood Boys’ Home writes to explain that the
institution in question is not the one to which
Rev. Mr. Cole restored a truculent urchin by
mam force. Neither is it run by a “private
persdn. lhs said Burwood Boys’ Home, with
an income last year of about£73o, has a numerous
committee also a president, vice-president, and
sundry other office-bearers. A similarity in
the names of the two homes caused The
Bulletin artist to fall into a common error con-
cerning them. And just here it may be
remarked that the Rev. Cole aforesaid has
been declared guiltless of inhumanity in
taking the small boy hack to the other happy
home, with handcuffs on him, seeing that he
(the hoy) was a terrible little Christian who had
brandished an axe at his mother.
* * * *
There was sold the other day in Melbourne
a relic of Victorian early days in the shape of a
blue-stone house, named Craig Park, which stands
on a slight rise overlooking the Saltwater River
to the west of Ascot Vale. It is a big, solid
dwelling, with walls 2ft. thick, heavily buttressed
and the narrow windows guarded by inch-thick
iron bars. Just across the river, on a high hill-
top, is another equally durable dwelling
churchy-looking from the exterior, with a
squat spire, shingle-covered. Its hluestone
"'alls are even more solid. On the ground-
floor it has a porch, a room 25ft. by 20ft.,
and two smaller ones; upstairs is a duplicate
of the large room below and a small chamber
giving access r,o the spire. On the spire is a sheep
as weathercock, and every foot of walls and doors
is scored with initials and names of visitors. Like
the house across the river, its windows are long
and narrow, though undefended by bars. Who
built these, and why they were so strongly
defended, nobody nowadays seems to know
though the oldest inhabitant usually volunteers a
discursive statement about a squatter who settled
there before the gold days, and stood in awe of
his untamed black brother and the ferocious con-
vict from Van Diemen’s Land. But the oldest
inhabitant mostly spends his days among the
fishers on the Saltwater riverside, and that is bad
training for a historian.
* * * *
For appropriating, without the owner’s
consent, a walking-stick and a brolly, an old lady
named Mary Viner was “sent along” for six
months at Paddington (Sydney) t’other day.
Ihe owner of the brolly was one Rev. George
Pacificus Birch. The Minister got back his gamp
(what would a gampless parson or priest amount
to.J; the old lady went to prison. It might be
justice, but it wasn’t Christianity. True Chris-
tianity would sooner crucify its gamp than send
an old, and possibly beery, sister to the “jug.”
* • • *
An illustrated guide to Adelaide, pub-
lished lately under official auspices, had a modest
thing or two to say about S. Australia :
South Australia is the finest part of the Southern Con-
tinent! True, a bold claim to make. But it is pregnant
with deep truths. From point of commercial soundness,
from the aspect of initiatory enterprise, in respect of
its beauty, the central State marches in the van. No
wonder, then, that South Australians are proud of their
part of the great Commonwealth. Furthermore it, is
said that the prosperity of a State but reflects the
character of the people. This is especially true in the
case of South Australia, where the people have gained
the reputation of being industrious, enterprising, and
thrifty, not given to vain boastings.
Hooray ! There’s no Stinking Fish in that basket,
anyhow. Good old South Aus. seems, in fact, to
lack nothing but the saving sense of humor
*
Wolfe’s Schnapps, as good for women as
for men buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
MATTER OF CAPACITY.
WATER : “ Sausages one!”
HEAVYWEIGHT DINER : “’Ere, waiter , one sausage is no good to me. Fetch me a dozen!”
The crazy yarn about the probable destruc-
tion of the earth by collision with a comet which*
if it were compressed into solid matter, a man
could put in his pocket, has produced a crop of
shocking results. 11l Australia alone, dozens of
cases of protracted and dangerous hysteria have
been occasioned by the prognostications of the
Dago astronomer. One Melbourne girl is said to
have indulged in a succession of awful fits over
the comet, and is still at them ; and in the same
city a woman in child-bed died of sheer comet
fright. Melbourne’s fool of an evening paper put
large black scare-heads over the story, and thus
made sure that the nervous females of the city
would see it, and the shocks, hysterics, fits and
jumps that have ensued should justify the com-
munity in suing the rag for a billion pounds
damages.
“Priam”* The stout man with the
red face hauled himself up by the stan
chion and sat heavily upon the dummy. As
we passed out of town and faced the warm
dust of the St. Kilda road, he turned
to the gripman and began a conversation.
“Warm day!” he gulped, thickly. The
gripman looked down, and grinned. “You
know me ? ” said the fat man. “ Mr. Blot-
son, I am. Mis—hup!— ter Blotson of
Boldsborough’s.” The gripman rang the
bell with violence, and a yellow alien on
a waggon ahead waked with a start and
frantically dragged his horse off the tram-
track. The gripman turned again to the
conversational passenger. “ Ev’body knows
me—Blotson. Mistev Blotson.” He hic-
coughed, and went genially on with a long
account of the afternoon’s doings—some-
thing in the way of statue-unveiling or
opening a new pub.—with twenty more
references to his identity with Blotson of
Boldsborough’s. Finally, as the tram
neared the St. Kilda junction, he put his
hand into his pocket and brought out an
enormous handful of gold and silver. “ Shay
—you know Mr. Brow-Brown, of Bolds-
borough’s?” he demanded, as though in-
spired by a happy thought. The tram-
man’s eyes shone as he looked at the
cash. “Mr. Brown?” he said. “What
ho ! I know ’im.” The fat man winked
solemnly, and put the gold and silver back
into his pocket, without deductions.
“Well,” he said, conclusively, “You ash
’im if I’m not Mishter Blotson.” And he
got clumsily off the car.
At last even the parsons are beginning to
see that our colored fellow-subject from India is
an undesirable. This is the Kev. J. W. Burton,
of the Indian Mission, Fiji, to Sydney Methodist
Conference:—
In Fiji the whites are face to face with an Asiatic in-
vasion. Five years ago there were 18,000 Indians there ;
now there are 30,000. They are also confronted with the
terrible problem of a dying church. At the rate of some-
thing like 2500 people every year the Fijians are dying
out. In 10 years’ time the balance will be buried, and
we will have Fiji heathen again. We have to face that
problem unless we are going to haul down the flag. The
question for the church to consider is not the present
population of the Pacific, but the population of the
future. In Fiji the population will be Hindu, and in
Samoa there are indications that it w ill be Chinese. It is
this thing that is going to kill our work in Fiji.
* * * *
The Victorian Bobby Department reli-
giously confiscates every revolver found in the
possession of a prisoner, and every year it holds a
sale, and the same sort of criminal buys the same
sort of gun very cheap. There ' have been
occasions when the same identical gun was con-
fiscated and sold four times, from which it appears
that the Bobby Department sold the weapon to a
criminal each time. This shows mighty little
discrimination on the part of the Bobby Depart-
ment. Why not boil these things down into steel
rails ?
■* * * «
“These men of Angier’s, let us hear them
speak, King John, Act 11, Scene I. Follow the
immortal bard’s advice and hear what we have to
say about the best lung remedy in the world,
Angier’s Emulsion. 4d. for postage to the Angier
Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack-street, Sydney,
will bring you a free sample and a descriptive
booklet.*
“Sea Weed” : I was in a Melbourne
court the other morning when a man applied for
a marine dealer’s license, and produced certificates
of good character. Then a lumbering cop spoke :
“ I have to inform your Worships that this man
was sentenced in 1898 to three months’ imprison-
ment for larceny/’ and the P.M. said briefly
“Application refused. The Act will not allow
you to have a license to go into people’s back
yards.” Then the lumbering cop—who might
have warned the applicant off in advance, only
that he would thereby have lost the glory of stand-
ing on his two potent legs before his Washup—
carefully escorted the applicant out by the arm ;
that nme-years-old conviction made him the
bobby’s meat to the end of his days, and gave
Policeman Q a lien on his soul. Yet Ram Singh,
who may have been gaoled a dozen times in his
native India and once or twice in Australia—he
has only to change his name from Ram Bhux to
Ram Singh, and the awful similarity of the in-
numerable tribe of Ram does the rest —gets his
license pretty regularly in Victoria.
JUDGED BY APPEARANCES.
“ It looks to me as though the ugliest dog is the
prettiest one in these ’ere shows.”
Amongst old Sydney land marks that are
giving way before city improvements is the
Flower-pot Inn, York-street. In the ’twenties
and ’thirties Alexander Long, uncle of the widow
of Chief Justice Martin, kept the Flower-pot Inn,
in Market-street. The York-street house dates
from the mid ’fifties, and was opened by John
Pope, afterwards a fruit merchant. At one time
it was kept by a somewhat noted citizen named
Thame, a politician of the secret society order.
The glory of the house, and other houses in the
neighborhood, faded when the old George-street
Markets were abolished.
* * * ■*
“ Private Enterprise ” evidently just
“hangs the expense” in seeing that the public
gets its butter “ prime and fresh.” According to
the N.S.W. Government Analyst—
... In order to conceal the decomposition of their
cream, some farmers throw a handful of boric acid
into it. They then sell it to a middleman, who,
knowing nothing of the previous adulteration, would add
some boric acid of his own, and then sell it to a Sydney
grocer, who, imagining that he had purchased pure
butter which might go bad before he found a market,
would mix with it a third lot of boric acid. The result
was that such butter contained a proportion of boric acid
which would probably frighten the individual adultera-
tors just as much as the purchasers, were they both aware
of the facts.
“Frighten them ” ! Not much. As a grocer re-
cently remarked: “It stan’s to reason, if it’ll
preserve butter ’n’ things, it’ll preserve your
inside, o’ course.” The adulterator is a philan-
thropist, grossly misjudged.
DISHER BILL
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Me wife’s bbeh learnih’ lhngU'idges; an”owt ’ paHeyvoo
Ah’ rottett Sdrter stuff it S-iook ’ere ! ’twixt tab an’ you,
*’* e st ' dod ifc *’ r A month, Atl’ stood it patient, too, until
SHfe Sez t’ nie this mornin’, “ I don't like this Disher Bill! ”
“ Wot's that ? * says I. “ ’Oo’s Disher Bill ? An’ wot’s ’e
doin’ ’ere ? ”
She looks at me a minit, an’ she sez to me “ My dear 1
Ain’t you aware of Disher Bill ? W’y everybody knows
Wiat Disher Bill’s th’ French f’r wot 3’er might call un-
dress clothes.”
I ain t too sure but wot she ain’t concealin’ some chap’s
name ;
An’ if she is, my oath, I’ll stop that blessed Mossoo’s
game!
I’ll punch’is’ead ! I’ll kick’im out! I’ll mighty nearly
kill
Th’ interferin’Frenchy—this 'ere blamed old Disher Bill 1
VIC.
KODAIL.


All Business
AND
Technical Subjects.
STOTT & HOARE’S
Business College,
MOORE ST., SYDNEY.
“Home Study,”
Post Free.
9
I
The Latest KNITTED VESTS.
A FANCY VEST not only keeps one warm during
cold days, but it is fashionable and always
looks well, and is a good change from one’s
ordinary vest. They are in all Sizes and Styles to
suit all figures, and they match any color of Suit.
We have just opened our First Shipment of Fancy
Vests. We mention two of them.
At 18/6 Each*
Blue and Creen with White Spots
Blue with White Rings
Black, Blue and Creen Stripes.
At 22/6 Each.
Brown and Blue
Green and Red
Scarlet and White.
POST FREE,
ORDER
FORM.
Please send me a Fancy Vest at
My Chest measurement is inches.
Name Address.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
HEN’S & BOYS’
OUTFITTERS . .
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
AN OLD AGE JOKE.
“ An’ does the doctor gie ye nae hope? ”
“ Waur than that, Jamie, waur than that. He says I’ll maybe live a week, an ’ me life
insurance premium is due the morn.”
My! isn’t “Mr. James” coming out!
Sydney Herald, last week, brought off a
“scoop” by having telegraphed from Fre-
mantle (W.A.) a one-and-a-quarter column
mail account of Mrs. Thaw’s evidence of her
“betrayal.” Granny served out the blush-
ful details generously. Of course, it was
simply “a sense of public duty,” but the public
rush to be properly and thoroughly shocked
gladdened the treasury all the same. The humor
of the position was heightened when a religious
rag (whose verbatim reports of the Coningham
case were about the most undressed newspaper
feat on record) soundly trounced Granny for her
evil-minded sensationalism.
The Chows of Bendigo have always been
in the habit of turning out in procession at the
annual Easter Fair. But they have to be pro-
perly ‘ ‘ approached ”on the subject. Every year,
on a Sunday about a month before Easter, the
Mayor and other members of the Fair Committee
visit the plague spot of Bendigo —the foul-smelling
Chinese camp on Ironbarlc Hill. Ihe Mayor and
the other fellows kow-tow to the Chows, and after
bumping their heads on the ground a few times,
or doing some such ceremony, the Mayor ex-
presses the hope that his friends, the Chinese
citizens of Bendigo, will give heed to the request
of their miserable, unworthy, and crawling
visitors, and turn out and assist the annual
Charity Carnival, which, without them, will
be an abject failure and a frozen frost.
The Mayor and his crowd then retire back-
wards from the dog-lcennel of the heathen,
and wait an hour or two outside in the mud or
dust while the Celestials gabble together and buzz
like 1000 beehives. After much buzz, the Mayor
and the others are called in, and gravely informed
by Ah Sin or Lee Hung that, owing to the
absence of Kin Fo or somebody else, the Chinese
are unable to come to a decision over the great
question, but if the white barbarians and devils
will come the following Sunday, they will get an
answer. The following Sunday the same struggle
is repeated, but this time Kin Fo is present, and
has brought his huge intellect to bear on the ques-
tion, and the camp has decided to assist, lhe
Chows, of course, had made up their minds
months before, only they must be approached in a
proper manner, and asked to turn out in gaudy
silks, and carry all sorts of ancient military imple-
ments, and bray on two or three Chinese bands.
The Chow procession has the same features every
year, and there has scarcely been an alteration in
it since 1880. Why the Fair committee and the
Mayor struggle so hard at the door of the Chief
Chow’s dog-kennel to get this tame, stale old turn
year after year, is one of the unexplained mys-
teries of life.
* # * *
John Wren’s old Collingwood tote is now
a skittle alley. There is no betting on the pre-
mises now—only skittles and other amusements.
The popularity of skittles just there is vast, won-
derful, almost incredible. Sceptical policemen
stand round outside and count the skittlers who
enter —as many as 100 in an hour sometimes.
Inside, the boss and chief skittler expresses his
anger at the suspicions entertained by debased
cops., and at'the aspersions cast by implication on
the unspotted purity of slcittledom. But some-
how Melbourne doesn’t take that alley quite
seriously. It is alleged that there is a mad rush
on skittles on race days, while on days when there
are no races interest drops off; and people ask
why these things are so ? Also, the Bent Govern-
ment reckons that if it started a State lottery
with skittles, and a skittle alley without any
lottery, the difference between the two would be
just about glaring enough to explain the mystery
of that Collingwood establishment. So the
patient cop. sits outside and takes notes, and
Judkins raves in the distance.
•* * * *
Some recent happenings suggest that when
the public-house boarders want to revel in the
bar after hours, they should undress first and
have their beer in their night-shirts. Several
times lately the bobby has heard a sound of
revelry by night, and has made an entrance only
to find that, while he was getting in, silence and
gloom had supervened. Then all would have
been well if he hadn’t gone through the bedrooms
and counted the boarders who were sleeping in
their clothes and boots.
The wail of the Sydney lodger :
’VIST ANTED, Room, by respectable man, in city, no
Va hard-faced tenement women. Reasonable,
Herald.
* • * •
“Philo” : One fatal case of plague came
from one of those privately-owned, roofed-in
thoroughfares that abound in Sydney’s principal
streets—the Strand. The daily papers merely
remarked that a case of plague was discovered in
premises on the eastern side of George-street, be-
tween King and Market streets. I don’t know
much about the internal economy of the
Strand, but I have known various arcades in
various cities, and have often wondered that
there isn’t more disease in these fashionable
tunnels, with their rows of small badly-ven-
tilated shops. Generally about half-a-dozen
of the shops in any given arcade are
occupied by “ tea and luncheon rooms.” The
rooms used by the public are as clean-looking and
spacious as possible, and the packing-case, boot-
trunk or dog-box where the food is prepared is
correspondingly small. There are no back yards,
as a rule, so refuse has to be kept on the
premises till called for, and the food naturally
gets into the corners and behind things, and
invites the plaguey rat and the microbe to
come and stay. On hot days the conditions
in these breathless little kitchens are apt to be
very offensive, but the food is fetched out of them
by nice, pert, Norman Lindsay girls, wearing
neat, clean uniforms and gracious smiles, and it is
placed among pot-plants and polished plated ware
on spanking table-cloths, and the unsuspecting
public doesn’t ask what happens out of its sight.
After all,
the recent
upheaval in
the press on
the subject of
Merely Mary
Ann does
promise to do
some good,
and the idea
of importing
the young
woman in
large quanti-
ties has ap-
parently gone
quite over-
board. Mod-
ban Society, a London snob
sheet, has discovered that in
what was once the teeming
fountain of good domestics,
Ireland, the well - trained
Biddy Ann is now at a heavy
premium, and in England
and Scotland the trustworthy
domestic help can secure a
lifelong billet with the best
of families at quite respect
able rates of p',y. Even the
Dames of the Household, who
were for a time severely boy-
cotted by all the best people,
are now in great demand on
account of their perfect train-
ing. So the Australian mis-
tress is taking a grip of the
position and starting a train-
ing college in which the Aus-
tralian girl—there being ap-
parently no other girl—will
be taught the art of house-
hold drudgery. At the
Technical College, Sydney,
it is proposed to found a
School of Domestic Instruc-
tion, in which young women
will be trained in the mys-
teries o,' cooking, household
management, the care of children,
the making of infantile clothing,
and (ye gods !) millinery. This means
that when Merely Mary Ann has finished
blackleading the stove and cleaning out the
sink she will be qualified to repair to the
workroom and turn off confections on the lines of
the latest Paris fashion for the mistress and young
ladies.
* • * *
The habit people have of talking over
their troubles in bars is somewhat dangerous when
the troubled party is of a trusting nature. A
saddler at North Sydney had a dispute with his
partner, which was very natural, the chief object
of partnership being to provide materials for
rows. Being of a gentle disposition the saddler
wandered into a public house and confided the
whole matter to the man behind the bar. He was
sympathetic, and so was a casual stranger, who
incidentally explained that he was a solicitor, and
that the saddler had “ a fighting chance ” against
his partner. He offered to “fix things up.”
Thereupon the saddler invited him over to the
shop and offered to pay him for the fixing up.
Next morning the casual stranger called on the
other partner, and offered to square the matter
for £lO. He was ordered out of the place. He
then mentioned 13s. 6d., his costs in coming round
to settle things up. He was told if he didn’t
leave he would be fired. He backed off and while
close to the door admitted in a pathetic voice
that he was pretty hard up, and reduced his costs
to ss. Then the other fellow sent for the police.
And the moral of it all is—when in doubt, bluff.
This casual individual reduced his prices, and
when he arrived at a paltry ss. the saddler’s
partner conceived such a contempt for him that
the result is three months’ hard labor for being a
bogus solicitor. If he had raised his price and his
voice he would probably have got off. He might
even have got paid. It is a profitless business to
be a worm.
* • * *
The Anglican Church at Adelaide is about
to cleanse itself of a beer stain. Right opposite
the diocesan office in Leigh-street is a hotel which
is church property. It has been decided to pull
this down, build a warehouse, and let the same to
some respectable importer or other. Likely
enough the importer will also deal in liquor, but
then it won’t be drunk on the premises, and the
church needn’t be aware of it.
* • • *
That was a noble fight between Windsor
and Sydney as to which would own the portrait
of Governor Macquarie. Windsor has won, and
the aged picture will henceforth adorn the local
courthouse. Macquarie loved Windsor and its
people. Several who merely pulled a forelock to
him as he walked down the dusty street, he pre-
sented with acres of territory wherever they liked
to pick it. That little tip started many of
N.S.W.’s best families. It didn’t matter to Mac-
quarie whether people had come out or been sent
out so long as they pulled their forelocks to him.
He it was who originated the expression : “ There
are only two classes of individuals in N.S.W.—
those who have been convicted and those who
ought to have been so. He had enough vanity
for a hundred, and wanted his name on every
stone in the land. But he was a jolly spark in his
way. “ Plenty of employment, plenty of money,
and plenty of rum—that’s what we want,” he
used to say with an embracing sweep of the arm.
However, Windsor has secured his portrait, even
if it is short of rum these days.
UNANIMOUS.
SHE: “I think Miss Hautton is perfectly re-
pulsive. Don’t you?"
HE: “ Rather! I know it She repulsed me.”
A Melbourne hotel licensee, who seems
to be a really wholesale lady, was recently
charged with eleven breaches of the Factories
Act. Marion Lane, housemaid and waitress,
worked for a week from 6.15 a.m. to 9.30 p.m.
(“ standing up or running about was the general
mode of having meals”); five other housemaids
worked more than 60 hours a week ; and even Sen
Suyenaga, Japanese cook, brought two more 10s-.
fines upon the lady. Sen was specially favored—
he went “off” for Sunday afternoon and evening.
The gentle licensee’s remark to the police in-
spector was only, “lb is like the audacity of the
Government to send anyone to interfere with my
private affairs.” It didn’t strike her that they
were also the private affairs of Marion, and Lily,
and Florrie, and Annie, and Mary, and Ellen
O’Rourke, and even of Sen Suyenaga.
* * * *
Yic. Board of Health has bumped once
more against municipal incompetence and laziness
—in the matter of typhoid this time. t The
decrease in the average number of cases ill the
State has lately been confined to Melbourne—
thanks to the sewerage system—the country being
almost as dirty as ever. As the disease at
Wangaratta seemed peculiarly persistent, the
Board sent an officer to investigate. He gave the
town a day’s notice, and then transpired. The
only person about the municipal offices was a
small boy. The town clerk had lately resigned
and left the district; the health officer had gone
on a trip to Maoriland ; the Mayor was away
quail-shooting ; the sanitary inspector lived some
miles out of town ; and the hospital authorities
simply took in the cases as they came along, and
did the best they could. Nobody knew anything
—except the youth. So the investigator fossicked
round as best he could, discovered sundry dis-
graceful filthinesses, and returned to town to
report. The Board considered this report, and
some of it wanted to do something drastic forth-
with, but the others decided to “invite” the
Wangaratta Council to “ take action.” And the
sort of action that sort of council is likely to take
isn’t worth mentioning.
* * * *
Brisbane, as well as Sydney, will yet have
to widen its principal streets at huge expense. It
is also a monument of the folly of early Gover-
nors. Queen-street was surveyed to be a decent
width, but Gipps happened to visit Moreton Bay,
and countermanded the survey. He called the
surveyors before him and roundly rated them for
“wasting” the territory in streets. There were
668,000 square miles of empty territory in what is
now Queensland, but the economical Gipps hated
to waste it. Before quitting he left orders that
all the streets of the townships of Moreton Bay
should be reduced to one chain in width.
• • * *
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE GIMLET-HOLE BRIGADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. T. J. Dyson (Elmore and Rochester) proposed :
“ That in the opinion of this Conference the time has
come when a more aggressive policy should be adopted in
regard to our home mission work.”
He thought they had come to a point in the history of
their church when they should adopt more modern ways
in regard to home mission work, and the special policy
followed in the city should be extended as far as possible
in the country.— Methodist item.
There’s a stir in every chapel where the shade and sun-
shine dapple
The pews where the pious persons kneel;
And the atmosphere is reeling under every vaulted
ceiling
As it shakes to the Methody appeal.
With energy astounding the old call to arms is
sounding—
The same call to arms that Calvin brayed—
“Ho ! bring your little hymnlets, and sharpen up your
gimlets —
Forward, the Gimlet-Hole Brigade ! ”
0 Kyrie Eleison ! Hark to godly Brother Dyson J
Listen to his words of command ;
“We are sinners all unworthy; yea, mud-muddy and
earth-earthy,
And the Devil holds us all in his hand 1
Then he waxes cacophonous: “ Satan’s brand is now
upon us,
Though in the angels’ image we were made,
Oh, the horror and the pity ! But we’ll save this wicked
city-
Forward, the Gimlet-Hole Brigade ! ”
See them mustered in array now, marching on their holy
way now;
Each one with a patch to blind one eye ;
All their gimlets nicely pointed and with holy oil anointed,
And stamped with their motto—“ Let us Pry! ”
Upon all their chests undaunted, like gay gonfalons are
flaunted
Their Blessed Blue Ribands—slightly frayed ;
And the light of Faith reposes in the red glow of their
noses —
Forward, the Gimlet-Hole Brigade 1
Glory be ! How they are boring throu h the sinners’walls
and flooring—
How the light of Faith streams through each hole !
Hallelujah ! Mark them prying at the living and the
dying,
As they wrestle with the flesh for the soul!
And the combat is terrific —but instructions are specific,
“ Not a soul must be left in Sin’s shade ;
Hence with doubt and hesitation ! Saturate them with
salvation !
Forward, the Gimlet-Hole Brigade ! ”
They have purified the city—whose backsliding was a
pity—
By their warnings of the Fall and the Flood,
And now the holy judders rush the girl who pulls cows’
udders,
And the man who hoes the maize and the spud.
Let Millennium begin ! They have stormed the keeps of
Sin,
And Joy is dead, and Pleasure sore afraid,
While men hail the wondrous vision of the wonderful
“ Home Mission,”
And the deeds of the Gimlet-Hole Brigade !
Hushed is every sinful revel, and the cohorts of the Devil*
With the froward persons called “ Belial’s sons,”
Far in frenzied flight are hasting, but the Blest Brigade
is tasting
The speechless bliss of victory—and buns !
Conquered sin has “ thrown a seven ” ; earth at last is
just a “ Heaven ”
(Brother Dyson’s Heaven—ready-made)
Where each sister and each brother keep an eye on one
another
For ever in the Gimlet-Hole Brigade.
VIC.
O.C. CABOT.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S pn * ~9K (Machinery, vi*. i Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
* ons « High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc. 6
r.*„ s , :‘ ar s;* o pu t«'r.
Material and Mining Requlaltu of Ise^dSortfS, B 1 L omotl ™*'
The
WILD CAT
COLUMN
The State revenue returns for February don’t
look quite as cheerful as the recent monthly figures have
forthcoming" m ° Bt 04368 & satisfaotor y explanation is
State Revenue for February.
„ „ „„ , 1906. 1907.
N.S. Wales .. £1,148,409 £1,051,478 Dec. £96,931
Victoria .. 774,493 698,775 Dec. 75,718
Queensland .. 236,676 275,561 Inc. 38 885
Westralia .. 278,323 261,688 Dec. 16,635
Tasmania .. 63,379 68,016 Inc. 4^637
This financial year the N.S.W. land tax was collected in
December, owing to the arrival of the new Local Govern-
ment law; for the year before, it was collected in
February. In Victoria in February, 1906, heavy Probate
duties were paid. The only explanation for the shrinkage
in Westralia is that that State is getting into the back-
wash, and won’t bring itself to believe it.
figures for the eight months past give a,
State Revenues for Financial Year so far.
, 1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S. Wales (8 mos.) £7,923,102 £8,708,481 Inc. £785,379
Victoria (8 mos.) .. 6,047,957 6,308,129 Inc. 260172
Queens and (8 mos.) 2,400,072 2,691,291 Inc. 291219
Westralia(Bmos.),. 2,265,317 2,186,287 Dec. 79 030
Tasmania (8 mos.).. 594,949 625,541 Inc. 30,’592
The latest South Australian figures are now over two
months old, and it is not Worth while including them.
The figures covering expenditure are more frag-
mentary still:— °
Expenditure for Financial Year so far.
1905-6. 1906-7.
N.S. Wales .. £7,518,270 £8,140,634 Inc. £622,864
Queens and .. 2,202,629 2,328,708 Inc. 126,079
Westralia .. 2,251,838 2,299,715 Inc. 47,877
Victoria and Tasmania trust their Treasurers, and ‘‘go
bUn , (l the matter of expenditure for a whole year •
gradual S. Australia bursts out with dilatory particulars
Only once a quarter.
The N.S. Wales surplus of revenue over expen-
diture 12 months ago was £404,832; it is now £567,857.
lhis shows an improvement of £163,025. But “ land
revenue has in eight months of this financial year
amounted to £1,154,925, which is £127,413 more than it
was in the first eight months of the previous year ; and as
land revenue is mostly not revenue at all, the improve-
ment isn tas genuine as it looks. Last year the always
incomplete and unsatisfactory Carruthers decided to be
honest to the extent of one-third of the land-sales money
by transferring that portion to the public works fund ;
but he still uses the whole three-thirds to fake a surplus
with and so provide himself with an undeserved halo.
Further, he has already spent £903,067 of borrowed
money this year, which is at the rate of £1,354,600 a year
—pretty well £1 a head of the population. The N.S W
revenue for the first eight months of the past few years
has been as follows :
J 902 .. £7,085,903 1905 .. £7,372,023
ionf " 7,286,281 1906 .. 7,923,102
1904 .. 7,368,518 1907 .. 8,708,481
Yet, in spite of this increase of £1,622,578, Carruthers
can only be one-third honest in the matter of land-sales
money, and even then he pawns the country to the
extent of another £5 or thereabouts per household per
annum. And they call that Reform I F
, Victoria publishes no expenditure figures; but
ckca' * s satisfied that his year’s surplus will be
£500,000. No doubt it will be more. Bent knows that
bS A t A lmates a s " r P lus of £500,000 and produces one of
£650,000, there will be £150,000 to ascribe to Bent’s good
™ ana g £ mebt .- Last J' ear Victoria finally had a surplus of
f 571; this year for eight months the revenue has been
£260,172 ahead of last year’s down to the end of February,
iso, with four months more to go, Bent’s £soo,ooo‘is
either much under the mark or this year’s expenditure
has been very bloated. But that is a secondary matter
anyway. A Treasurer who shows a surplus by deferring
expenditure can be forgiven as long as he manages with-
f deeper into debt. It doesn’t matter so much
whether he spends the money to-day or to-morrow so
long as he raises it in the right way. Bent continues to
keep out of the pawnshop ; and that is now the beginning
of wisdom in an Australian Treasurer. He has even ear-
marked half-a-million, with which to reduce the State’s
debt to Cohen.
v, February, 1906, Premier Kidston
had £197,443 in hand towards Queensland’s then current
i?Qco y i?oo r S - lnt . eres , t > at , the end of February, 1907, he had
£362,583 in hand. As the interest for two months
amounts to about £291,145, there looks like a sub-
stantial surplus ahead. But, on the other hand
Kidston s loan expenditure is creeping up : for the first
eight months of 1905-6 it was £183,210 ; for the past eio-ht
months it has been £409,121. In the matter of l.Tnd
sales, however, Kidson’s record is still the right thing :
apart from rents for pastoral occupation, the total
rebk ? n l ed as land revenue for the eight months is
£87,582. Kidston admittedly has a hard row to hoe.
His predecessors poured out money on hopeless under-
takings, and left the State unprovided with works which
simply demand to be built; and the revenue that ought
to be available to build them is mopped up in interest on
the money borrowed by Kidston’s predecessors to pay
for their hopeless undertakings. The worst thing Queens-
land can do under the circumstances is to put again into
power the party which created the bog that Kidston
finds it hard work to get out of.
Westralia’s revenue this time last year was
£13,479 ahead of the expenditure ; this year the expendi-
ture is no less than £113,428 ahead of the revenue. More-
over, its loan expenditure is understood to be increas-
ing, and it proposes to go on borrowing as fast as it
can find lenders. It is just drifting into debt
m a helpless fashion. Its expenditure runs to about £l6
per head of population—this is exclusive of loan expendi-
ture —while Queensland got through on £9 Is. 5d per
head, and Victoria (which had no loan expenditure to
help out the figures) paid for everything with £6 16s 8d
per head. Westralia is burning the candle at both ends"
and now it is pursuing Cohen to melt down some of the
middle of the candle. That can only end one way * but
the people who are pouching the £2,000,000 of mining
dividends a year will be well out of the reach of taxation
when the trouble comes home to roost.
* * * *
The bad habit which some big mining men have
lately developed of issuing blocks of reserved shares with-
out giving the shareholders a chance to take them has
got the directors of a Sydney trading concern into very
hot water. A few months ago the Board of the Balmaiii
New Ferry Co. decided that 10,000 shares ought to be
issued, and the first thing most of the shareholders knew
about the matter was the announcement in the half-
yearly report that the shares had been issued at a
premium of 10s. per 20s. share. Then, observing that
shares were at the moment worth about 40s.
and that there is 10s. difference between 30s. and
405., some of the shareholders wanted to "know
who had got the shares. The directors didn’t
know; but shareholders could find out at the
office. As some shareholders wanted to find out badly,
the proceeding’s were hung-up until the information was
available. Meantime some of the directors were saying,
with tremendous emphasis, that they really hadn’t got
any of the shares. Possibly they hadn’t; also if they
had, one would hardly expect to find their names on the
share register. As a matter of fact, however, a very large
number of the shares had been issued either to the direc-
tors or to their friends. But, whoever got them, the
general body of shareholders didn’t have a chance to take
them pro rata ; and, encouraged by a recent American
Supreme Court decision, the shareholders have now held
a meeting and decided to take counsel’s opinion as to the
law on the question in N.S. Wales. If the opinion is
against the directors, it is understood that it won’t be
difficult to get a return of the shares, as only 300 of the
new issue have been sold in open market. On the other
hand, if the law is that directors can secretly issue
reserved shares to whomsoever they please, at whatever
price they please, then it’s a fool of a law, and people
who keep off Boards of directors are throwing away their
opportunities.
* * • *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Ltd. (Sydney) :
_ . _ Written Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. off. Funds.
1896 £38,820 £14,615 £9,900 £2433 £11,878
1897 41,079 11,460 9,422 996 19,201
1898 46,112 20,531 10,396 2082 13,103
1899 60,291 22,890 11,023 1581 14,797
1900 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901 01,979 19,435 15,997 2209 24,338
1902 63,552 31,850 14,717 1555 15 430
1903 03,732 34,877 14,142
Assets written up 3,071 1408 f
J 904 65,619 29,610 14,227 1586 20,196
JOO5 70,242 27,515 16,615 1971 25,141
1906 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24,247
The total funds are now £324,296. There is no separate
reserve to provide for the possible depreciation of secu-
rities, as there should be in connection with every society
which makes a valuation for the purpose of ascertaining
its profits and declaring a bonus. In other words,
apart from the necessary insurance fund or reserve, there
should be a fund to guarantee that reserve. The City
Mutual isn’t, however, by any means the only office with-
Opt one. In the matter of new business, the society
makes good progress. The income has very nearly
doubled irt 10 years; ahd that result hasn't beeh
achieved by pouring out money in expenses. On the
basis of total income, the expense rate has been as
follows
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
" £22 18 9 p.c. 1902 .. £23 3 2 p.c.
1898 .. 22 10 11 „ 1903 .. 22 39 ..
1899 „ 21 18 4 „ 1904 .. 21 13 7
1900 .. 29 311 „ 1905 .. 22 4 7 ”
1901 .. 25 16 2 „ 1906 .. 24 5 6
But the proportion of new business has been larger than
usual in the past year; and it is the new business that
costs the money. An office that merely sits down waiting
for the last policy-holder to die of old-age can work
down to 3or 4 per cent, of income—the proportion de-
pends on the size of the income. The cost of renewal
business m a small office like the City Mutual is of course
relatively greater than in a large office (for big or little it
only has to have one board of directors and one adminis-
trative staff) ; but, taking 5 per cent, as the cost of re-
newal business all-round, and 3 per cent, as the cost of
single-premium and annuity business, then new business
last year cost the City Mutual 131 percent, of the first-
year premiums received, as against 77 per cent, in the
Citizens (plus the shareholders’ one-fifth of the profits),
112 per cent, in the A.M.P., and 199 per cent, in the
Mutual Life. Among the smaller offices (and not at all
necessarily unsound because small), the showing of the
City Mutual in the matter of the cost of new business is
distinctly satisfactory.
If the City Mutual could keep the business it
gets, it would soon be in the second rank of Australian
life offices in point of income. But its losses appear to
be exceptionally heavy. Take the experience of a year
or two: —
Benewal New
Premiums. Premiums. Total.
1903 .. £45,022 £5,140 £50,162
1904 ... 46,835 5,218 62,053
1905 .. 45,238 10,154 55,392
1906 .. 46,568 13,018 59,586
Compare the total premiums for 1905 with the renewal
premiums for 1906. In 1905, £10,154 new premiums were
paid, yet the renewal premiums in 1906 were only £1330
more than they were in 1905. Certainly there were
claims to be paid meantime (total £31,955), but that
business which has gone out of the office wouldn’t
account for more than perhaps one-third of the pre-
miums that have disappeared ; the other two-thirds are
represented by policies that have been allowed to lapse.
This all means a shocking waste, from which both the
insurer and the office have to suffer. Possibly the heavy
losses of this kind are due to the fact that the City-
Mutual largely pursues an intermediate business—some-
thing that lies between the industrial and the ordinary,
and caters for people who as .yet don’t fully know
the value of life assurance, or whose incomes are not
regular enough to keep their premiums going. In that
case the office isn’t to blame.
The interest earning’s are, as usual, very high
—-£5 Is. Id. per cent, of the average funds. The society
does a small-loan business, which larger offices do not, or
cannot profitably, look at. But as against the large
profits the comparatively large amounts that have to be
written off must be set. The Mutual Life Association, for
comparison, with funds more than six times greater than
the City Mutual’s, has in the past five years written off
an average of £2BOO per annum. If £lOOO of what the
City Mutual writes off is due to the class of business it
does, then, charging that much against the interest earn
ings direct, the latter amount to only £4 14s. Bd. per
cent. Even that, of course, is above the average. Con-
siderable changes have occurred in the management
during the year; ex-Treasurer Waddell is now- on the
board ; and George Crowley, lately manager, has become
managing director.
* * * *
Oronhyatekha, the Mohawk chief of the 1.0. F.
alleged insurance concern, is dead—scared to death prob-
ably by the investigations which Canada has been making
into the ways of his comic-opera office. When it came to
think over possible life insurance legislation, the Canadian
Commission bumped against a serious difficulty in Con-
nection with assessment offices like the 1.0. F. With the
ordinary office it could order a Government valuation
ascertain how much the society ought to have in hand to
provide for policies in force, and require it to lodge
securities to that amount with the Treasury. But with an
assessment office, as the bosses of the 1.0. F. were once im-
prudent enough to say, “ the reserves are in the pockets of
the policy-holders.” Inotherwords, “if we can’t pay, then
we always have the right to make the policy-holders
shell out more premiums to an indefinite amount, and if
they can’t or won’t shell out, then we can cancel their
policies and forfeit all they have paid in.” No legislation
could get over that sort of thing—except legislation pro-
hibiting that sort of “ insurance” altogether.
The 1.0. F. did profess to have some reserves
however, and Oronhyatekha was badly roasted with re-
gard to them. Repeatedly, since the cheeky concern got
a start in Australia, The Bulletin had pointed out that
nearly the whole published information regarding the
society’s finances was either valueless or misleading. The
expense rate was obviously faked ; and the bulk of the
assets were lumped together, and presented either as
Union Trust Co.’s “investments” or the same co’s
“ stock.” Of the total of £1,863,888 these two items re-
presen ted£1,088,607. It was over this Union Trust Co. that
Oronhyatekha tied himself in knots when in front of the
Canadian Commission, and finally had to plead that he
didn’t know a whole lot of things that he ought to have
known. It is quite likely that in many things he was
merely a dupe—he was an inordinately vain person who
allowed himself to be pushed out into the limelight in
the centre of the stage while more cunning people were
busy in the wings.
The Savings Bank of New South Wales
Interest Writ-
Net Paid to ten To Re- Re-
Dec., Earnings. Depositors. off. serves, serves.
1901.. £175,263 3} p.c. =£158,693 £9B £16,472 £276,062
1902.. 185,493 3* „ „ 166,146 19,347 295,409
1903.. 189,245 3J „ „ 167,819 21,426 316,835
1904.. 194,745 4 „ „ 190,175 4,570 321,405
1905.. 196,366 4 „ „ 193,917 2,449 323,854
1906.. 205,126 3J „ „ 183,470 4458 17,198 341,052
The total deposits with this institution (generally known
as “the Barrack-street Bank,” to distinguish it from the
Government Savings Bank) and their distribution, have
been as follows :
1905. 1906.
Sydney £3,498,694 £3,663,950
Sydney suburbs .. 1,158,920 1,291,349
Country .. .. 887,753 1,042,310
Total .. .. £5,545,367 £5,997,609
The money, along with the reserves, was employed in
the following manner on December 31st, 1906 (other
figures are added for comparison):—
1898. 1903. 1906.
State Loans.. .. £2,314,258 £871,025 £254,411
State Securities .. 6,059 2,375,731 3,055,308
Other N.S.W. Stocks 162,204 243,680 337,097
Mortgages .. .. 883,880 889,478 1,170,858
Loans to Banks .. 1,258,269 1,191,072 1,433,952
The balance in each case is represented by premises, cash
in hand, &c.—the latter received on the night of the last
day of the year and not paid into the “ working account ”
at the bank’s bank.
The relation of this Savings Bank to the other
banks is the least satisfactory feature in connection with’
it. As mentioned just now it only receives money to
pass it on, in the first place, to another bank—just as
though it were some slip of a building-society “ bank.”
In this Working account at the end of the year it had to
its credit no less than £111,229, though it is under-
stood some of that carried interest. But, apart
from that, it had £1,322,723 lent to the banks, as
against a total of £1,099,915 lent on mortgage. So it has
lent to the banks to lend on mortgage about one-third
more than it has lent oh mortgage without the interven-
tion of the banks. The private banks, of course, have to
make their profits, so this roundabout procedure means
either that the Savings Bank depositors don’t get as
much interest as they would if the Savings Bank did the
mortgage business direct, or the borrowers have to pay
more for the accommodation. In the grouping of securi-
ties printed above “Other N.S.W. stocks" represent
£337,097. These are mainly Sydney Corporation deben-
tures, including £152,625 issued in connection with mar-
kets, and £51,000 in connection with electric lighting.
The Savings Bank mortgages brought in, in
interest, £54,803. The average of the advances under
this heading was £1,135,386, so the interest was £4 16s.
7d. per cent. On the other hand, the average interest
earnings of the deposits with the banks was
£3 4s. 3d. per cent.—calculated, as before, on the
mean of the deposits. So by lending to the banks
which lend out on mortgage, instead of itself lending out
on mortgage direct, the Savings Bank loses about 1J p.c.
in interest. Certainly there may be somewhat larger
risks in connection with loans on mortgage; but the
margin should far more than cover it. This risk is at
present provided for by a mortgages depreciation fund of
£44,255, included in the reserves shown above. From
this fund £759 was written off last year ; the balance of
the amount shown as written off is for depreciation of
office premises.
• * * *
Toohey s, Ltd., brewers, of Sydney, which
began with a deficit of £90,605 (goodwill, £85,000: pre-
liminary expenses, £5605)
In Reduc-
Net tion of
, Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Defici
July, 1902.. £11,416 £11,416 £79,189
Jan., 1903.. 25,606 6 p.c. =£16,500 9,106 70,083
July, 1903.. 18,603 6 „ „ 16,500 2,103 67,980
Jan., 1904.. 17,233 5 „ „ 13,750 3,483 64,497
July, 1904.. 10,440 4„ „ 11,000 65,057
Jan., 1905.. 15,554 4 „ „ 11,000 4,554 60,503
July, 1905.. 11,842 4 „ ~ 11,000 842 59,661
Jan., 1906.. 9,930 4„ „ 11,000 60,731
Capital written down from £550,000 to £400,000.
.July, 1906.. 12,128 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,128 58,603
Jan., 1907.. 11,628 5 „,, 10,000 1,528 57,075
It may be difficult to square this with the published ac-
counts, which, after payment of current dividend, show
reserves (undivided profit) of £9925. This is the situa-
tion :
Original deficit .. .. £90,605
Less Preliminary expenses paid
out of revenue .. .. £5,605
Goodwill reserve .. .. 7 000
Reserve fund .. .. .. 11000
Present undivided profits .. 9’,925
33,530
Present net deficit £57 075
The goodwill reserve and ordinary reserve disappeared
when the capital was written down. Possibly they did
not come off the goodwill account, though ; part of them
may have been used to write down other assets. In that
case, the deficit is larger than shown above. But, on the
other hand, when £150,000 of capital was Written off,
£50,000 of it was provided by the vendors by the surren-
der of 50,000 paid shares ; and that was really so much
off goodwill, though the accounts do not show it that
way. The position is further shown hereunder
July, ’O2. Jan., ’O6. Jan., ’O7
Brewery, Plant, Good-
will, Properties .. £398,956 £455,956 £331,250
Stocks 49,521 37,424 32 721
Book Debts .. .. 150,515 134,094 101,993
Cash 1,680 2,220 5,097
Liabilities .. .. 43,062 41,925 48,636
The figures as at January, 1906, were just before the
writing-down. The profits shown in the first table are, as
stated, net; in the past half-year (as in the corresponding
half of 1905-6) £2500 was appropriated out of revenue to
cover depreciation. The last table above shows, however,
that this depreciation reserve is not being accumulated in
cash to provide for renewals. Management expenses
remain about stationary. At January, 1906, they were
£29,598; this past half-year they were £29,403. When
the co. was formed they were £36,997 (January, 1903);
but the profits on brewings, &c., were then £58,176 as
against £36,395 now. After what ought to have been
(but probably wasn’t) a thorough cleaning up a year ago,
profits, especially in so prosperous a time as this, should
now show an improvement; there ought not, anyway,
to be a sink gaping for them as there was previously.
That in the table the past half-year’s net profits do not
compare well with its predecessors is mainly due to the
fact that, whereas £2500 was written off for depreciation
last half-year, nothing at all was visibly provided out of
revenue in the previous’ half. The market, however, be-
lieves either that the concern is still over-capitalised, or
that the outlook for the liquor business is precarious ;
and 16s. shares are not saleable above 11s.
* * * •
The Metropolitan Mutual Permanent Build-
no and Investment Association, Ltd. (Sydney)
Loss on
Loss on Proper- Total Written Re-
Dec., Business. ties. Loss. Off. serves
1897 £2945 £398 £3343 £l3
Deficit.
1898 2254 133 2387 2 374
1899 938 878 1816 4 190
1900 1890 1854 3744 £75,250 83,184
Reserves.
£103,898 capital written off .. .. 20,714
Profit. Loss. Net Profit.
1901 1597 500 1097 21 811
1902 -f 385 153) Q 1
\ Forfeited share capital 18 / 21,982
1903 2223 591 1632 23 614
1904 2019 1041 978 2,500 22’,092
1905 1217 743 474 22 566
1906 1398 98 1300 447 23,419
The following is a further attempt to show the progress
of things since the cleaning-up in 1900
1901. 1905. 1906.
Capital £42,083 £42,099 £42,099
Debentures .. .. 51,572 39,671 30,019
Other debts .. .. 57,495 47,422 48,545
Advances 14,175 11,894 13,529
Defaulters’ mortgages.. 23,109 7,060 6,700
Estates, &c 132,363 112,611 103,716
Cash, etc... .. .. 3,449 20,911 21,011
The debentures were raised on what is known as the
Glebe estate ; some, overdue, have been paid off during
the year, and apparently, till the debentures dis-
appear, all profits must tro tn wa™
thing like £9OOO is repayable S^ me '
estate, like this company’s Wat-prin/' Glebe
leasehold; and out of I the 1 S ! is *
is deducted for redemption • the °£5 8 / rel ? t 8) £2OOO
down by that much, and p«sumablt the' 8 writl «
used to help pay the debentures. The l9
at £48,500 (against which there tt of d
and £22,500 of mortgages) returns in n.f . tures
paying redemption, a shade over 5 per cenk wV f ter
the leaseholds, the co. has some freehnhWoe^« rt ?? m
sales have been made during The ye ar / b ut t be dt^ iCh
say, the prices obtainable leave only’a small marri
profit, necessitating a further reduction ot
debited to the reserve fund ” ApparenSv to 5 -
these properties have been written dowK s h o wn
loss shown on properties sold (£9B) refers to
properties; on the other properties the net nmai- sed
£490 or will be, if the payments arj SJ
company’s debt is still heavy, most of it is reprem
by properties whose net profit is extremely smaU aTd the
“S.°! assets is land whose value is tri c fi
£10,600 is m suburban estates ” which apnarentlv hrim*
aDd fie fc yea l (a year of P ros Perity)gaveoniv
£ l2 v. f ,,? a .l e P. rofit ’ and £24,100 is in “city and otheV
freeholds whose net rents were under 3 per cent Yet
the Sfn°n reSS m \ de durin S the P ast few years is solid, and
the mana e ement appears to be now prudent and cautious.
* * « *
The Vitoria Coffee Palace Co. (Melbourne)
from the time when £20,000, being one-half the paid
capital, was written off;— P a <
t. _ Written To Re- Re.
g&* Dlvid ?pds. Off. serves, serves.
1897 .. £690 Nil _ £690 £ B3l
1898 „ 284 Nil _ _
Profits. 647
1899 .. 1176 4 p.c. =£Boo 876 921
90? ” ion? 4 J ” » £457 669 1«?
1901 .« 1905 5 ft 1000 905 2397
1908 ” U 64 A ” 716 103 2600
1903 1464 4 „ 800 664 3164
Unclaimed Dividends .. 20 aisu
]l° 4 ” 4 ”<’ 800 476 241 3425
1905 .. 1537 4 „ „ 800 737 4162
1906 .. 1665 4 „' „ 800 865 6027
Repairs and replacements are paid for out of revenue
but nothing is provided for general depreciation, so the
reserves are doubtful, and that means that the stated
profits are doubtful too. Capital is £20,000; and the
property carries a mortgage of £19,874. The debt was
£27,007 at the end of 1896, and £23,995 at the end
of 1901; so it was reduced by £3012 in the first
five years, and £4121 in the past five years. Unfortu.
nately, the terms seem to be less satisfactory now and
as compared with 1901 the saving in interest last year
was only £47. As shown above, £20,000 was in 1896
written off capital, which allowed the freehold property
to be written down from its boom value. Profits during
the past eight years have been steady, and substantially
ahead of the dividend ; and, though the dividend is still
small, there is a cheerful look about the figures, consider-
ing the handicap with which the concern faced the world
when the boom collapsed.
• » * #
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Jan., 1902 ..£4476 14 per cent. =£4725 £64,007
July, 1902 .. 5588 14 „ „ 4725 £863 64,870
Jan., 1903 .. 4214 14 „ „ 4725 64,359
July, 1903 .. 5044 14 „ „ 4725 319 64,678
Jan., 1904 .. 4554 14 „ „ 4725 64,607
July, 1904 .. 5012 14 ~ „ 4725 287 64,794
Jan., 1905 .. 4438 14 „ ~ 4725 64,607
July, 1905 .. 4800 12 „ ~ 4050 750 65,257
Jan., 1906 .. 4455 12 „ ~ 4050 405 65,662
July, 1906 .. 4112 12 „ „ 4050 62 65,724
Jan., 1907 .. 4376 12 „ „ 4050 326 66,050
Of the reserves, £63,079 is represented by “Renewal of
Works, Service and Contingency Funds, and Wear and
Tear Account.” How much of this is real reserve, and
how much provision for actual depreciation, it is
impossible to say. Six months ago the account
stood at £62,844 ; out of revenue in the past
half-year £lO2l was appropriated for wear and
tear; total, £63,865. As the account stands now
at £63,079, a total of £786 has been paid out of it
during the term, presumably for renewals. From this it
looks as though the reserves were to a large extent real;
for something, at any rate, is being written right off.
Five years ago the balance-sheet stated that £1202 had
been written off the cost of real estate, which was equal
to about 4 p.c., and 18J p.c. off plant, stock, etc.; since
then the depreciation that has been provided, apart from
the reserves, has not been expressly mentioned. The
amount since written off the reserves may have been
only for renewals, or part of them may have been to cover
general depreciation. But whatever has been done the
cash position has not improved at all. In these five years
the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities has moved
down from £19,672 to £19,370 ; and the surplus revenue
that has gone into works has not raised their earning
power (receipts at January, 1902, were £11,491 ; and last
half-year £10,655). That shows that the reserves are not
worth now what they were five years ago, in spite of the
additions made to them meantime.
* • * *
Castlemaine Woollen Go. (Vic.)
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1902 .. 5 p.c. = £l3OO £2034
1903 .. £2214 4 „ „ 1078 £4OO £736 2770
£lB9O of Reserves transferred to Capital 880
1904 .. 2155 4 p.c. = 1156 750 249 1129
1905 .. 1320 3 „ „ 900 420 1549
1906 .. 1280 3 „ „ 900 380 1929
Dec.,
1906 .. 866 866 2795
The half-year’s profit is a shade better than the recent
average ; but, as nothing is set aside out of profits to pay
for wear and tear and provide for renewals, the real
profit is less than is stated, and the return is very poor,
anyway. This co., like the rest of them, finds that,
in order to do anything at all against the foreign com-
petitor, who gets his stuff in on absurdly low duty, it
must keep right up-to-date in the matter of machinery;
and that means that every year the co. ought to write
down its plant severely. And mostly the profits are not
good enough to allow of that; so in the end it has to be
done at the expense of capital. It all means that the real
profits of the insufficiently protected woollen factories
are in most cases less even than they are said to be.
This co., finding the need for more plant, is increasing its
overdraft and debentures (£13,070, as against £11,978 six
months ago). That is the way nearly all of them have
gone in the struggle to keep the hybrid tariff from beat-
ing them.
* * # •
The Broken Hill Water Co. hasn’t even yet
lost all hope that it will maintain its monopoly of supply-
ing water to the mines and town. With great joy it
observes that a movement has once more been started
(who started it needn’t be inquired into too closely) to
“ bring in water from the Darling.” Broken Hill ought
to have had a supplementary water service years ago,
and it would have had one if it could have been got to
make up its mind what it wanted ; but the successful-
looking agitations have always been side-tracked. Yet the
mines will never be safe with only the present reservoir
to depend upon.
* * * •
T. H. Palmer, who, for the past few months,
has been piloting Junction North, Broken Hill, through
a sea ruffled by a good many storms of adverse criticism,
is a young man who hasn’t very long left the class-room;
and he has a high opinion of the value of young men who
have had much the same sort of training as himself.
That is the whole explanation of the latest trouble theco.
has had. Not long ago a trustworthy and experienced
miner, who knew the Junction North workings from
top to bottom, but had never been to a school
of mines, was replaced by a young graduate.
That caused grumbling, but the men did no more than
grumble. Now, however, the whole machinery of the
mine has been thrown out of gear through a similar
change being made at the mill. The underground
workings have not shown any improvement as a result of
the change in underground managers (and that means a
good bit to a miner, whose life is at stake); so when the
change in the mill overseership occurred the men resolved
on a protest and refused to work. It is to some extent a
tussle between the followers of the old methods and the
new ; and the followers of the old methods scornfully ask
whether popularity in Broken Hill drawing-rooms is to
count ahead of practical experience. This may not put
the real case fairly, but it is the idea that is buzzing in
the head of the mass of the men, and the chances are
there is more than an odd grain ot truth in it.


“PERPETUAL.”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 BPRINQ STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Now that zinc-expert Queneau has made a
dramatic exit from the stage on which the Zinc Corpora-
tion bungle in being enacted in Broken Hill, the mining
audience is patiently awaiting a more interesting “ turn.”
As a zinc-smelting expert, Queneau is possibly entitled
to all the things that have been said about him,
but in that capacity he was never required in Broken
Hill. As a zinc-extraction student he has left behind
him, on the British mine dump, a pretty substantial
monument to his lack of success in the shape of several
massive iron pans that were to have solved the zinc pro-
blem, but didn’t. At the present time the Zinc Corpora-
tion has six treatment pans in its British mine plant,
and no two of them are alike in pattern. Fourteen Wil-
fley tables have, however, been doing payable work
treating tailings for leady concentrates. But that isn’t
zinc extraction. The South and other mines got as far
as that ten years or so ago.
* * * *
The North mine, Broken Hill, is making good
progress in its search for ore to feed the new mill. The
manager has button-holed the lode at the upper level,
though some expected that at that point it would have
escaped into the Junction North ; so there will be ore
from the 500 ft. down to the 700 ft. practically untouched.
Then the new main shaft is going down to the 950 ft.
level, and so is the ore body from the 800 ft. level. By
the time the new mill is ready for its first meal, there
should be at least five years’ supply practically available.
There is a grim determination about the way
the British Broken Hill is trying to find new ore bodies.
The long feelers of the diamond drill are being put out in
all directions from the main workings. The management
has pretty well made up its mind that it will find
something pitching in from the adjoining Block 14.
A nice body of sulphides is being worked by
Block 14 right up to the boundary at the 300 ft. level,
and the British is going after that at its 400 ft. level. The
eastern vein, which has been tapped by diamond drill bores
at various points along Blackwood section, is expected
to turn out all right in the end. On such hopes the
British has to comfort itself for the present.
* * » *
The South Block’s mill is one of the prettiest
along the line of Broken Hill lode. It will be some time
yet before it is put on full loading, but when that time
comes the plant should give a good account of itself, not
only because it it so compact, but because treating South
Blocks ore, as at present exposed, is like shelling peas.
• * * »
The shareholders in the C.S.A. Central, Cobar
(N.S.W.), are in a tangle. Chairman Horton, a very
capable mining engineer, and manager Harris, of Queen
Bee—he knows Cobar district better than his prayers—
say there isn’t a thing showing on the claim, which lies
south of Gardner’s, which again lies south of the parental
0.5. A., to justify further work. Horton says he can find
“ nothing worthy of a second thought,” and he wants
what little money is left saved up till some other show
happens along. R. W. Hardie, of Sydney, who fathered
the concern in the first place, putting it off into 1000
shares of 810 each, leads another section, which wants to
put the 200 ft. shaft down another 200 ft. If there were a
gossany formation, even if it had no metal values, it
might be worth going further, on the off-chance
that the metals had been leached out from the upper
leyels; but on the description of the formations so far
exposed, there isn’t a hundred to one chance of striking
anything. Harris, of Queen Bee, puts Cobar district in
a few words : “The characteristic feature of the district
generally is that where payable values have been obtained
below, there has occurred on the surface a decided and
somewhat prominent outcrop of iron-stairied material,
usually in isolated places, the ore bodies being pipes or
lenses, and having no direct connection with one another,
thus making impossible to say definitely that one pro-
perty is directly on the same line as others.” That
absolves the original promoters; but it is pretty cold
comfort for people who buy into Oobar “position”
claims. Still they will do it, the idea that a lode is a
continuous body of ore being about the hardest thing on
earth to root out of the aggregate head of mankind.
All the same, it is a moot question whether any
majority ever ought to be able to decide that the money
which a minority put up to prospect at Cobar should be
used to prospect at, say, Circular Quay. It’s a fact, no
doubt, that most articles of association give the co.
power to do most things under the sun and stars, but
nobody ever reads these articles. The fairer thing nearly
always is to go into liquidation (and watch the liquida-
tor) ; then those who have faith in the show can get it at
their own price, shaft and all thrown in. Even whep they
get the property for nothing they are not treated any
too well; for when they put their money in, it was on
the understanding that the whole of the common fund
would be available.
*** . •
The N.S.W. Arbitration Court has awarded
advanced wages to the Oobar miners, but says that, as
Crowl Creek is under a cloud, it can’t do quite the same
for the men there. Apart from the fact that Growl
Creek, now that it has amalgamated with the Shuttleton,
isn’t under the cloud that it was, this sort of “injurious
differentiation ”is not possible in practice. A common
rule to apply to all mines in the same part of the country
is the only way, for if one mine pays less than the others,
then it simply gets the others’ cast-offs (and the difference
in actual value between a good and a poor miner is a
good deal more than Is. a day.
• * * *
Mt. Lyell dies hard, so the spec-seller has
closed up his account, and the bull is now reckoning
whether there may not be something for him in the old
show. Theco. is nearing the end of another half-year, and
it ought to present a solid financial front. To date in its
half-year its consignments of blister copper are close up
to 3700 tons, and with two weeks’ more shipments to
count in before the end of the term, fully 4500 tons ought
to be shipped, so that the total will be up to the previous
six months’ 4491 tons. The price of copper during the
April-September term was £B5 9s. 4d. per ton ; since then
it has gone forward to £llO. Taking the average
at £lOO, this means an extra £67,500. Costs can
hardly be lower, though it is the dry season,,
because both mines are working deeper. Still, if costs
are even a bit more, the profit on manures counts in ;
so shareholders may expect earnings to show a
big strengthening of the financial position. The
co.’s work at “ The Blow ” is bringing down the average
grade of the ore mined. Still, for the moment, one can
look at high-grade stuff picked up at 850 ft. in the North
Lyell. Ore up to 22 per cent, is setting all the quid-nuncs
by the ears. They want to know how it is that such
high-grade material can be got at depth when the Lyell
ore falls off so sensibly. However you look at it, Dr.
Gregory, the geologist, was right. The country wants
riddling with the diamond drill before hope is aban-
doned. There is plenty of scope for enterprise in this
direction, too, quite outside the two big Lyell mines.
* * * *
The German smelters at Zeehan (Tas.) talk
about buying 150,000 tons of zinc ore from the Hercules.
This is the show that was shut down for so long, and
when opened began to score profits from the jump. Best
ore comes from No. 4 level, where zinc ranges up to 63
per cent, for shipping lots. No wonder the Ger-
mans want to grab it 1 The German home supplies are
petering out at a great rate, and yet the country want
to prolong its connection with the industry. To gjv
the German big contracts like that of the Hercules helps
him op in his industrial fight with Bull, and also keeps
Australia back. It wouldn’t even be so bad if the zino
ore went to Britain. And it looks, too, in view of the
shipping of iron ore from Blythe river and the Iron KnoD,
that iron ore will have to be included in that export
duty which the circumstances begin to call lordly for.
There is more real patriotism in the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Board’s determination to smelt its own zinc than
there is in yards of election talk. That co., by the way,
is going on to the bitter end with this work; and that
may account for the whisper about shifting the head
office.
* • * *
The divs. so far declared by W.A. mines for
March total £212,625, against £233,600 for March,
1906. Oroya will pay 4s. per share, or £90,000, on March
27 ; Boulder, 9d. per share, or £65,625, on 25th; Persever-
ance, 6d. per share, or £35,000, on 14th ; and Cumberland
6d. per share, or £2OOO, on 2Sth. The Black Range will
probablj r pay the usual 6d. per share, and this is the only
other likely div.
• * • •
Chaffers, Kalgoorlie, has once more proved the
fallacy of relying on diamond-drill prospecting. Two
years ago a borehole was reported to have cut a 12ft. lode
at 1700 ft., showing a value of 35dwt. for a width of 4 ft.
On the strength of this it was arranged with the adjoin-
ing Boulder Main Reef Co. to crosscut into Chaffers
ground, where the lode was expected to be cut at a
distance of from 180 ft. to 190 ft. The crosscut has, how-
ever, penetrated 250 ft., without locating anything of
value, and work has been suspended. The prospects of
Chaffers now look hopeless. Manager Cape has travelled
the Commonwealth in the hope of picking up a fresh
property, but has found nothing to suit him. Co. wants
a working option gratis, and the prospectors who hold
properties which yield them a living are expected to live
on air while their shows are being tested. Naturally the
co. can get hold of nothing on those terms.
• ' *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, recently had 28 tons
smelted for 1720 z., bringing up its total to 732 tons for
10,5630 z. gold and 38,1570 z. silver, worth £47,000, or £64
per ton. The main shaft is now being sunk to 400 ft., and
a winze below 300 ft. is already down to 400 ft. In this
winze the rich pipe of ore has been followed; and,
although very small in places, it has consistently main-
tained its richness. The mine, together with some
adjoining leases, is at present under option to Bewick,
Moreing and Co., who intend to thoroughly sample the-
shows. The figure to be paid is in the neighborhood of
£60,000, and, if the deal comes off, it will give a great
fillip to the north end of the field. All the properties
concerned are in the hands of working men, and are
being run in a very small way.
* » • *
Ivanhoe South Extended, Kalgoorlie, has
started opening out at 2000 ft. A reef carrying visible
gold was recently out in the shaft, and this will be opened
up immediately. A reef to the east, located some time
ago by diamond-drilling, will be prospected for by a
crosscut. This is the first serious attempt to tackle a
Kalgoorlie deep-level proposition which held out no hope
on the surface. Luck to it 1
*') ->r • *
Golden Horseshoe, Kalgoorlie, is installing a
winder capable of hauling from 4000 ft., so evidently the
management has faith in the permanency of the field.
Chairman Doolette, of the Great Boulder, states also that
the Boulder shaft is to be taken down to 4000 ft. If the
sinking of these shafts gives satisfactory results the field
will be assured for many years to come. The Golden
Horseshoe, for months past, has been treating all the
ore coming out of the mine, and has not been relying on
rich patches despatched to the Fremantle smelter to
sweeten the output. The position of the co. is, there-
fore, much stronger than it used to be, as there was then
always the possibility of the smelting ore petering out,
as it did on the Brown Hill and Lake View. The ore now
being treated averages only about 455. Yet the monthly
profit is £20,000.
* • * «
Fraser’s, Southern Cross (W. A.), has been taken
under option by G. P. Doolette on behalf of Bull-Cohen.
This mine was worked in a crude way in the early days,
and went bung in 1898 after paying £25,200 in divs. The
plant from the first was out of date, and when the sul-
phide zone was reached the co. gave up. The mine has
not been worked below 300 ft., and if equipped with a
thoroughly up-to-date plant would probably be a great
success. Since co.’s collapse the property has been held
by a syndicate said to consist of the leading mine
managers of the fields; but they have been content to
let the tributors root out what they could get, and have
not worried about development. With a few thousand
pounds to properly develop and equip the mine, Fraser’s
is likely to come again.
* •* * *
The Transvaal, Southern Cross (W.A.), is
another big low-grade proposition, over which Doolette
has taken a working option. This mine has for some
months past been held and worked by Archie Wilson, at
one time manager of Fraser’s. If worked on a big scale
it would probably pay handsomely, but up to the present
it has had no chance, as the cost of all development and
equipment has had to come out of the ground. Southern
Cross has been under a cloud since the collapse of
Fraser’s, but, in the early days, in addition to Fraser’s,
the Central, Fraser’s South, and Fraser’s South Extended
all paid divs., earned from working the shallow levels.
The sulphide zone was never tackled, but probably will
be now.
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.), in spite of its
wretched equipment, owing to the parsimony of the
directors, made a profit of £6BO in its last year. Manager
Ferguson is still hopeful that the mine will pay its way
and also provide the additional plant needed, anu ulti-
mately prove a success. The reefs runs from lft. to 2ft.,
and its worst feature is that the bullion only averages
about 40s. per oz. According to present outlook the co.
is not likely to pay such divs. as were distributed in the
past, but may still give holders a run for their money.
» * .* • .
Great Fingall, Day Dawn (W.A.), declares its
reserves as on December 31 at 30 months’ supply, or
about 650,000 tons ; but no attempt is made to value the
ore, no doubt on account of the guesses of C. M. Rolker
and the manager last year having proved so disastrous.
It is pretty safe to say that the outside value will not
exceed 305., and that the monthly profit will not exceed
£lO,OOO to £ll,OOO. This means that even the reduced
div. of 3s. per share, or £37,500, paid in January, can-
not be long maintained. All the pay ore recently
developed in the bottom level has assayed only 255. to
355. per ton, and the extraction will be less; and when
this ore comes to be treated the grade must come down.
Costs on the other hand can hardly come below 205.,
inclusive of everything.
• • • *
Lancefiela (W.A.) is still under a cloud, owing
to the difficulty of treating the pyritic ore in the sulphide
zone. Before erecting the new plant, t“Bts of the ore
were made, first at the Gwalia, and ther. ; on a large
scale, on the South Kalgurli, and the results were said to
be satisfactory. Since the new plant was erected fresh
difficulties have cropped up, and the roasters,' which were
designed to treat 10,000 tons monthly, treat only about
4000 tons. The ore requires longer roasting on account
of arsenic, and as firewood is very scarce and twice as
dear as at Kalgoorlie, this is a serious item. W. J. Loring,
who has just visited the mine, speaks confidently of over-
coming the difficulty, but the firewood question will
remain serious. The ore shoot on the mine has been
proved to be 1000 ft. long and about 20ft. wide, and the
ore in sight is estimated at 200,000 tons, while eight bore
holes, sunk to 600 ft., more or less prove another 400,000
tons to exist above that level. This is one of the biggest
mines in the State ; but the presence of arsenical pyrites
is the rub.
* • • *
The Brilliant and St. George, Charters Towers,
announces a dividend of 6d., and the predicted funeral is
postponed indefinitely. The output from the old mine
still holds its own at 1500 tons a month. Operations are
r boost confined to the stopes, where there is small but
iairly rich stone. The Identity and Hope shaft, the
second venture of the George, is being punched down at
the rate of 100 ft. a month. The new shaft is out in
front of the old Identity and Hope’s hole. To make it
pay there will have to be an improvement in the style of
conducting the mine, even presuming there is any stone
there when the new shaft reaches its destination. There
is a difference between handling a mine where the r*ef
averages 10ft. of loz. stone, and one that averages f
7dwt. tack, as is sh: "me in the old IdeutT , w<at • v
Rogers’ Block, a small spec that has been
nursed by a select few at Charters Towers, is about
ready for a flutter. The old workings were being belted
into shape when a reef was discovered. It measured Ift.
exactly, but soon it had pinched to a few inches. Why
on earth did the co. not turn the statement upside down,
and say that the reef had increased from a few inches to
lft.? It would have sounded better. And one is just as
true as the other—it all depends on which end you look
at it from. Anyway, with the limelight on it, a reef like
that should be capable of doing fine service for market
operators.
• • • *
Townsville (N.Q.) is having its little flutter in
the way of a Oloncurry flotation, and is asking the public
to help it put off the Federal Reward Copper Co., to buy
the Federal Reward, MacKinlay, Kingfisher, Weatherley,
and other shows. Co. is modest —50,000 shares of 10s.;
of which the promoters take 14,000 paid and £3OOO cash,
and out of the latter pay for flotation. Thirty thousand
shares are offered at 4s. on allotment; so £3OOO is all the
cash the co. will have, and that isn’t enough. No reports
are furnished ; the prospectus says it furnishes “ returns,
which are better than any report.” They are nothing of
the sort; what certainly can be said is that they are as
bad and misleading as some reports. The reward claim
is 24 miles from where it is expected the Oloncurry
station will be. Oloncurry is 600 miles from the coast,
200 miles of it without rail. From the coast at Towns-
ville any ore sent from the mine has to be shipped far
south and generally transhipped. Under such circum-
stances only the pick of the ore is sent away, and the
returns give no idea of the value of the ore bodies. And,
apyway, the man who accepts what has come out of a
mine as proving what is in a mine will fall in most times.
In spite of all whieh, the Federal offers a good bit for the
public’s money, and the public can rely upon getting a
fair run for its coin. Southern promoters would have
asked for at least twice as much for themselves.
Again, in connection with the Federal, the
newest Oloncurry (Q.) float, there is the bad practice of
offering those who take contributing shares a certain
number of paid-ups ; you pay for five contribs., and you
get one paid-up. The contrib. will go out into the
market with “4s. paid” on it, whereas the man who pays
the 4s. will have had a secret commission or rebate in the
shape of one paid 10s. share for every five 4s. shares. It
is simply the old secret commission or rebate swindle
slightly modified, and it isn’t a bit more respectable be-
cause it has been lately practised by people who can write
their names for tens of thousands.
* • * •
The Chillagoe Go. (Q.) is to do the building of
the Etheridge line itself ; the Kidston Government
approves of that. The balance of the required money
should be definitely available within a month. From
Almaden, on the Chillagoe Co.’s present line, where the
Etheridge line will branch off, there is 60 miles of fiat
country with no engineering difficulties at all. Progress
for some time should, therefore, be rapid ; at which the
Fossilbrook tin-streamers and wolfram-getters will re-
joice. The Einasleigh will benefit before the Etheridge
will. Einasleigh Freehold, lately put into a reconstructed
co. in London by W. H. Woodhead, who has battled hard
for ft, is within about 12 miles of the proposed route;
but another route, which brings the line within about
four miles of the mine, has lately been surveyed. The
Etheridge route is, in fact, along to within a few miles of
Einasleigh, the track surveyed some years ago on behalf
of the Einasleigh Co., for a railway which the latter co.
would then have carried through if the Chillagoe Co. had
not weakened on its promise to underwrite some of the
capital.
The Einasleigh Freehold now promises to
supply'the Chillagoe-Etheridge line with its best early
traffic. Only its distance from anywhere (it is 110 miles
from Almaden) has hitherto kept it back. G. H. Blake-
more, now of Great Cobar, struggled hard with it, but
the distance killed the enterprise. Copper wasn’t then
£llO a ton to help him. Amongst other things he tried
traction engines, but found them unsuitable. The lode
is 27ft. wide, proved down to about 200 ft., and it averages
10 per cent, copper. An estimate of an easily possible
output of 150,000 tons of 10 per cent, stuff in 12 months
was made a while ago, and there is no reason to doubt it.
Tins means big money. Northward on the block the lode
appears to be faulted ; and surface prospecting is difficult
both there and in the neighborhood on account of over-
lying basaltic flows. But, given the now-assured railway,
with a lode of this size Einasleigh must assert itself.
• * ■ • *
It would have suited “the syndicate” a lot
better if the yarn with which the daily papers were filled
up about the Mt. Morgan deal hadn’t been disturbed.
Those papers were inspired to go hifalutin about a pur-
chase of 80,000 shares at 905., whereas the transaction, as
reported in Tub Bulletin of January 3, was a purchase of
30,000 shares and the right to take 60,000 more in May.
At the Q.N. Bank’s meeting Chairman Munro confirmed
this version. Since then things haven’t gone so well
with the stock. What “ the syndicate " wanted was a
lively market, so that it could take up the 50,000 shares
and see a profit in them straight off ; and the best way to
get the rise was to give it a start and let the public
ascribe it to fine developments in the mine. Now, knowing
the facts for sure, the public isn’t rushing in ; and the
syndicate hasn’t got any help from the company’s
management, which at just the wrong moment referred
coldly to the prospect of early increased dividends—there
was such heavy outlay for plant in sight, it explained.
Altogether, then, things don’t look too bright for the
syndicate, unless it is willing to make its profit out of the
mine; for Mt. Morgans have gone back steadily to
82s. 6d., and there is no spring in the market.
* ■» • •
“ If tin continued about the present price, the
outlook for the mine during the next 12 months was
bright ” —so the chairman of Smith’s Creek (Q.) told the
shareholders in Adelaide. And the shareholders are re-
ported to have said “ Hear, hear.” Output is now
expected to be 40 to 60 tons black tin a month; that
means at least 1500 tons of ore a month. At that rate,
there is 17 months’ supply in the mine, and it is doubtful
whether it can all be got out. So the outlook does seem
good enough for 12 months ; but whether that is cheerful
enough to say “ Hear hear ” about is another matter.
Same meeting decided to alter the articles to give prefer-
ence shareholders, in addition to the fixed cumulative
dividend of 10 per cent., “ participation in the surplus
available for distribution on the ordinary shares.” The
one hope of ordinaries was that the stuff would be rushed
out and they would get a prompt shilling or two; but
the pref. shareholders have seen to that, and the very
little value which ordinaries had before is now a good
deal less.
* * * *
It looks as though the flotation of the Lass of
Gowrie (Q.) wasn’t the success it was cracked up to be.
The Lass is generally admitted to be the best of the new
tin mines of the north, but the success of the Gilmore
encouraged the same promoters to open their mouths
much too wide, and the southern markets gave it the
cold shoulder. Now there’s a large-sized baby to get rid
of, and the infant is being well buttered in the hope that
it may be pushed down southern throats almost before
they are aware of what they are taking in.
• • * *
It has not been decided yet whether the Blan-
tyre coal property (Q.) will be a producer of coal or a
museum for antiquated pumps. Early in 1905 the co.
kicked-off with a capital of £6OOO and the intention of
sinking a shaft 700 ft. to test two seams of coal passed
through by an artesian bore. The water in that locality
is sub-artesian. The site is seven miles from the Prairie,
on the N.Q. Railway, and 130 miles from Charters Towers.
After two years’ battling the £6OOO is gone and there is a
hole 540 ft. deep to show for it. As another 50ft. of sink-
ing should reach the first seam, the co. has reconstructed.
The capital now stands at £7500 in 30,000 shares at ss.
each. Of these no less than 26,650 are paid up, leaving a
poor little 3350 with a liability of 2s. 6d. per share to call
upon. The problem that is worrying the co. is how to
shift 9000 gallons of water per hour from the sink, and
that, isn’t a problem that should give much trouble if only
the co. didn’t attempt the job with such miserably
insufficient means.
« * * •
Financial position of the Caledonia, of Warran-
dyte (Vic.), looks better in the balance-sheet than it did
in the last Bulletin paragraph on the subject (21/2/’O7).
The co. at its balance in January had a fixed deposit of
£750, and £155 on current account; and on the other
side total liabilities of £5BO. Besides the cash in hand it
reckoned the net value of ore then in course of crushing
at £lOOO.
• * * *
“Vigilans”: Recently visited the Wandi and
Driffield Goldfields (Northern Territory), where some
years ago muqh precious metal was wop. The Wandi
battery has been removed to some more prosperous dis-
triot, and one white man dwells there amongst a doze* 1
or so old Ohows and many donkeys. The last white ma n
and his family have moved away from Driffield; th®
white man sold his battery to the heathens, who ar®
making a precarious livelihood crushing poor stone. Th®
country is in a shocking state through Fagans being
allowed to pig-root the reefs.
• • * *
Maoriland’s trade in flax illustrates the benefit
of Government supervision and grading. Ten years since
the product was so badly handled that the price was un-
satisfactory ; many thousands of tons are now exported
at about double the old figure.
W . • •-< •
The Lubra, one of the oldest shows on the
Barrier—worked long before Charles Rasp pegged out
Broken Hill for tin, of which it hasn’t a trace—is now in
the hands of a small Adelaide co. The manager is J.
Morgan, who worked it for “slugs” over 20 years ago.
The present idea is that the rich veins that once had all
the attention will make into a payable lode of fair size;
and the prospect, although not gaudy, is worth following
up.
* • mm
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Co., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * • *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [d.]
* * • *
The Insurance India (London), in its Septem-
ber, 1906, issue, writes, regarding the report for the year
1905 of the Society mentioned Taking the report
throughout we think it indicates that the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society’s prospects were never
brighter than at the present time, and while the results
in the present are excellent, the outlook is still more
encouraging.’’*
Cobar. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est., 1894. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
» * * *
Cobar. —For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
r m m •• • '•< t ■•. *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * • *
Budgery.—Write G. M. Field, Hermidale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
* * - »
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description. H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke-
street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• » • *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriDtion of cast or wrought iron work.*
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* . * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nymagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Haymarket, Sydney.*
• * * *
Charters Towers. —Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
• • • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * • *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
« * • *
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. report: At this
week’s wool auctions a spirited demand existed for all
classes, every section of the buying element operating
with freedom, and prices realised were fully up to the
best rates of the season.*
* * * *
The Annual Meeting of Bovril, Limited, took
place on the 4th February. The Chairman, tfip Earl of
Bessborough, took the opportunity of explaining the
great care exercised in the manufacture of Bpwtil, and
referred to the spotless cleanliness of the Facto!®, and
the wholesomeness of the ingredieats used. He further
stated that Bovril, Limited, was in noway connected with
the United States, and expressed the hope that the recent
American Meat scandals would not shake the confidence
of the public in “ Bovril,” the great British Meat Bever-
age. The Company prides itself in the fact that it is a
British Company to the backbone. Its Chairman,
Directors, and Officials are all British. Its wages funds
are spent among Britons at home and across sea, and its
dividends go in the same direction. It is the largest firm
of Manufacturing Food Experts in the British Empire.*
( r “ Wild Gat ” continued on page SI).


HALF-A-GUINEA for Nothing.
We are open to jarive to every Man, Woman and
Child in Australasia, anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves. Thjs is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDING & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show .them also the way to get half.a-guinea’s worth
for nothing. 1 ,
ANGLERS
Send
for our
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EASTWAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WATSON’* WHISKY.
1 s * v j v ( . . i , - »L* .. v , ; i i ‘ .• .
' • .■ a .*
Resells Waverley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The “ On the Land ” columns of the S.M.
Herald and Sydney Telegraph have been at
war over what is known as the “ Campbell Dry
Farming System.” The Telegraph began the
row by advocating, not that the good coastal
lands of N.S.W., now largely held idle by private
land-grabbers, should be thrown open, but that
farmers should go westward into the droughty
districts and practise Campbell’s methods of
growing crops without water. Campbell, it
appears, is a Yankee with a notion that he could
raise wheat on the rim of Sheol if the devil would
promise not to flick the crop with his tail. The
King-street paper has ransacked its exchanges for
gars wherewith to boom Campbell, while the
lerald has been chasing records on the opposite
side. Its trump card was an official report from
the U.S.A. Department of Agriculture, in which
it was stated that Campbell’s methods were
known in Europe before Columbus, and that his
success in the drought area was mostly owing to
the fact that the drought had broken up.
• • • *
“ F. 8.” : Will “ Prooshan,” or some other
sober bushman who claims acquaintanceship with
snakes, tell me if death from their bite is painless
or if it is etiquette to yell in our last moments ?
• • * *
“ Flinderino ” : The steamer Century is
bringing a consignment of 500 camels from
Karachi, far west of India, to be landed at Port
Headland (W.A.), and used in the timber-carrying
trade. I enter that steamer for The Bulletin’s
bad-smells competition. True, the competition is
closed up and dead, but my smell is deader.
A BROKEN IMAGE.
MR. JAMES BACKBLOX : “ There y'are, Maria, I
alwuz said them, plaster of Paris things
wouldn't last.”
“Araemo”: Be “G. Mac.’s” advice to
hang a watch on the end of a log, right over where
the heart should be, in order to discover if the
thing is “stuffed” or sound. It’s a very good
plan, but if you’re going to the other end of the
log it’s as well to get somebody else to hang his
watch up. I hung up my Whiskybury once when
timber-buying, listened very hard for three
minutes at the far extremity of the timber, and
thenwent back to put a cross on that log.and get
my watch. Somebody had got three minutes’
start with it.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan” : Dainty Ariel sings—
Where the bee sucks there lurk I.
In a cowslip bell I lie.
Nevertheless, I should be sorry to lurk at Brother
Bee’s elbow or pollen basket always, haying
frequently seen him Wallowing in the ooze of
pigsties, and worse. I once knew an old Chow
gardener that regularly raked bees in scores from
his vile liquid manure can every morning. I
presume Ariel’s bees had no truck with Chows.
“ John Moran ” : I have had carpet
snakes, brown snakes, tiger snakes, tree snakes,
and death adders in captivity, and not
one of them ever did anything after killing its
prey but start to swallow it straight away.
Even when the bird or animal swallowed,
has been very large, there has been no sliming.
I have a carpet snake here, s|ft. long, which can
Swallow the biggest rat you can give him, or a
plover, or bower-bird, with all the feathers on.
This snake is non-venomous and perfectly tame,
and if “ The Prooshan ” is looking for a snake that
does not slime, I will send this one to his
address, if he wishes it. “The Prooshan” can
easily be convinced then that he. is wrong. And
if he puts the cage where his friends can see it,
and gets them to start yarning, he will learn
more in a few days about the peculiar power
snakes have in developing the Ananias side
of people’s character than he ever dreamed of.
[.“John Moran’s ” insistence on this last point is
curious. He says that snakes make people liars.
He also says that he has kept whole quantities of
snakes—carpet, brown, tiger and tree snakes, also
death adders. And he is solid on the point that
when a man gets.the snake habit you shouldn’t
believe what he says. And then he says things.
Now “ The Prooshan ” doesn’t make a habit of
keeping snakes. Anyhow, ■ this sliming con-
troversy must leave off. It makes the whole
front of the office sticky.—Ed. B.]
* • • •
“Paul Cupid”,: The generally prevalent
city idea that the country hayseed is a mighty
nincompoop, without sufficient tact or cunning
to stand from under a thing that is falling,
is entirely wrong. The bucolic person is just
as cunning in his own line as the city
shark who has the rich uncle in Fiji, or
the land-shark agent who lives on that other
shark, the person whose maw is always craving
for more earth. Hayseed is always at his best
when preparing exhibits for agricultural shows.
When a prize is given for the best bag of wheat
or maize, he gets the sieve to work, and runs
through several bags to secure one bag of plump
grain. When he is going to exhibit chaff, he goes
about through the growing crop and cuts a hand-
ful of the choicest here and there, and binds
bagging round it to retain its green shade, and
ties it to the rafter of the shed till the show
comes round. Then he cards it carefully to free
it from useless and withered “flag.” Then he
puts it through the chaff-cutter, and if he is extra-
particular, he only collects that chaff that flies
out from the knives., knowing that it suits the
judges best. If he happens to get beaten, it is
because the other fellow went to more trouble; but
in any case, if he were offered all the tea in
China, he couldn’t supply a ton of chaff or maize
up to his show sample. Mrs. Cocky also gets in
a stroke of genius occasionally at show times.
Have known the lady to sweep the board with
preserved fruits, the judges speaking eulogisti-
cally of the firmness of the preserved fruit, and
the clearness of the syrup, and if the dense kooka-
burras had only investigated, they would have
found that the preserved fruit wasn’t preserved
at all, and that the clear syrup was just rain
water.
* * * *
“ F.H.R.” : Be shooting the white cocka-
too. When I was serving my term of white
slavery with the cookies, we used to shoot the
white cockatoo en masse. He only migrated to
our part of the country
when the corn was beginning
to ripen, and many a day I,
have walked around the
cornfields carrying, and
sometimes exploding, an old
muzzle-loader gun at him,
to frighten him off the
golden grain. But the slay-
ing was always done at
night. About sundown,
when every bird in the bush
was shrilly calling his or
her mate, the pallid cocka-
toos would assemble on some'
old ringbarked tree —one
with a great.variety of limbs
■was generally preferred, so
the whole white company
could roost in it for the'
night. On a moonlight
night, a raid would be
organised, and as many as
a dozen guns would fire
simultaneously. Of course,
it was butchery, pure and
simple, and I often shud-
dered as I heard the plump
bodies hitting the ground
with sickening thuds. Still, what else could you
do ? If left alone, a flock of cockatoos would skin
a 10-acre paddock of corn in as many hours, and
then not be satisfied.
*** m '
‘ ‘ Hamer ” : The variety -of - occupation
competition seems to have revived recently, and
I beg to nominate myself. I started life as a baby,
and was a child for many years. After that, I
was in succession a pickpocket, a thief, a con-
fidence man, a forger, an illicit grog-seller, a
burglar, a lawyer, a hypocrite, and an actor.
Between whiles, I practised trades, and did some
navvying under the direction of State officers. I
have done many things; I have done many people j
I have done time, and I have done nothing. This
last occupation was my most successful one.
* * * •*
“T.0.M.”: I one day saw, while riding
along the Gil'more-road, a large goanna chewing
cheerfully at a light brown snake. On dismount-
ing I found that the go. had munched up fully a
foot of the reptile's body, the central third I
might say. The snake was poking his tongue out
at one end, and lashing the ground with the rest
of his indignation. The go. apparently had no
wounds. I would infer from all this that a good
many of our snakes go into this evil-looking
sausage machine.
THE SLOTHFUL HORSE.
LLIVERY STABLEMAN : “ Well, I must say, you ’ave been drivin’ the ’orse a treat. You’ve
regular knocked ’im up.”
SARDONIC PATRON : “ Well, you see, I drove to my aunt’s funeral, and I had to keep up with
the hearse for decency’s sake.”
“ Mulga Burtie ” : Spent last Christmas
Day at a station on the Fringe of the Never
Never, where there is an old-time camp of blacks.
All were told to come up to the homestead for
Christmas dinner. Old King Widgil, in full
dress—brass plate blazing on his chest —took his
chair (kerosene case on end) at the head of the
table. Queen Margaret sat on a soap box oppo-
site. Both looked mighty frightened and uncom-
fortable. The king, on having the menu read out
to him, looked wildly indignant, and, with loud
contempt, said, “Baal mine want it the plurry
fowlduek. Gib it me jumbuck.” And, in
spite of all our gentle persuasion, jumbuck he
had. The queen was more up-to-date, though,
I’m sorry to relate, after having an elegant suffi-
ciency of fowlduek, etc., she got outside too much
beer and, on rising from table, sloped gracefully
into the refuse-tub standing outside the door.
She fell out of it again, and slumbered away the
golden afternoon on the earth with a chicken
bone in her hair. About sunset, her majesty was
propped into a dray and removed to her palace,
where, I believe, she was whaled that night by
her royal consort. In the morning they were
both in good condition, and running the affairs of
the kingdom as usual.
* * • *
“ Quidam ” : An agitated correspondent
wants to know whether it is possible that frogs
can be cannibals, as he believes he has detected
one in the act. He
doesn’t really know
Froggie. In Queens-
land, during flood time,
writer and mates used
to trace up snakes by
listening to the an-
guished complaint of
frogs which were going
towards the snake’s
dinner. A snake
always slowly sucks a
frog in, feet first, and
the victim yells till his
head goes inside. But
in about One case out
of three, after care-
fully following up the
noise, it would turn out to be a frog swallowing
another, the frog’s method being the same as the
serpent’s. A frog will swallow another that is
only a couple of sizes smaller. The cannibals I
refer to are green and yellow.
“Hiphen”: I wish to make a few re-
marks about myself. lam Australian born, and
yet—
(l) I have never been bitten by a snake.
(2) I know nothing about goannas.
(3) I have never tried to follow the fly on its beat—l
mean the bee in its flight.
(4) I never volunteered for the Beer war.
(5) I have never written a poem.
(6) I don’t like beer.
(7) I couldn’t for the life o’ me tell you the pedigree of
the last Cup winner.
(8) I never refer to England as “ Home.”
(9) 1 am proud of my country.
Though I say it as shouldn’t, there’s something
refreshingly, original about me.
* * * *
Australia has its fair share of those most
miserable of hu manbeings— the chronic dyspeptics.
Angier’s Emulsion works wonders in many forms
of dyspepsia. It has cured many obscure cases
that have baffled other treatment. It is soothing,
healing, strengthening and pleasant to take. In
three sizes, of all chemists.*
“F.M.” : I’ve been in Maoriland twenty
months, and I’m fairly sick of all this talk about
the Maori. The Maori is lazy, morose, apathetic,
and not by any means cleanly in his habits. The
true Malay of the Peninsula—keen, sturdy, dig-
nified, independent—is worth a score of the
Maori. Also, the Malay washes himself often
and thoroughly, and is not a vehicle for parasites.
Common ideas regarding the Maori need to be
reconstructed.
* * * *
“ Percole ” : Referring to “T.O.M.’s”
par. (B. 28/2/’O7) to the effect that snakes will suc-
cumb under intense sun heat. A corroborative
incident happened in Sydney Only the other day.
A cove, who poses as a naturalist, had a diamond
snake in a glass case. Its artificial ground was
composed of sawdust, in which snakey made
pretty tracks every time he went for a stroll. His
owner evidently thought his natural food was also
sawdust, for that was the only adjacent sub-
stance that did not consist of ease; but that is
not the point. A blazing day soon galloped over
the city, and the naturalist, in a fit of compassion,
put his scaly pet (case and all) out in the sun for
an hour or two. “For it is natural for them to
bask in the sun, you know.” When he again
visited his captive it looked like a strip of “ bil-
tong ”on a spadeful of desert. Poor old snakey
had been slowly frizzled to death, and had dried
right up.
A STORY WITH A MORAL—(FOR
COCKATOOS).
“Member” :Be cow. Was in Taranaki
(M.L.) in 1904, when there was a slight epidemic
of something or other among the gentle cow
tribe. One cocky drove 20 miles to see a Govern-
ment Stock Inspector about a hypochondriao
milker, and, having secured the necessary advice
and physic, drove back home in the rain. A few
days later cocky was ill and delirious, yet his
relatives did not trouble to communicate with the
doctor. Probably they didn’t think it worth
while. Pour days later the local medico happened
to hear that “ old Jones had a bit of a cold,” and
went to investigate. He found Jones with his
light just on the flicker; but, after a fierce
struggle with the Reaper, who badly wanted to
reap Jones, he saved that cocky’s life. The first
words Jones uttered whan he became conscious,
after eight days’ oblivion, were : “Must get out
and fix up that there sick milker.” And only
personal violence on the part of the doctor pre-
vented him committing suicide in the damp cow-
yard there and then.
* * * *
Mr. W. Daniels, Temora, N.S. W., says:—
“ Some six months ago I was very ill for nearly a
week with colic pains, suffering great agony.
Speaking to Mr. Rigney, one of our local chemists,
about it, he said he had a good remedy for such
complaints. Leaving me for a few minutes he
returned with a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy. After the first
dose I felt relief, and in less than 24 hours was
completely cured. My daughter lias also during
the last few months been similarly attacked, but
a dose of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy soon put her right. lam now
never without it in the house, and make a point
of recommending it to my friends.”
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful medicine in the
world for bowel complaints. For sal* every-
where, Is. 6d.*
SNAKES
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The summer comes, and everyone
His stock of knowledge eager rakes,
To swell the daily heap of lies
Re snakes.
I read them all, and pretty soon
Each swish and Casual rustle mckes
Me jump. I see, and hear, and dream—
Ugh! Snakes!
I have been bitten countless times
By pins, etcetera ; and the shakes
I get when I see sticks in grass—
Oh ! Snakes 1
And antidotes that I have tried
For my own and my neighbors’ sakes-
Sure, nothing ever could be worse,
Bar snakes.
Had I the power, I would consign
To Hades’ ever-hissing lakes,
The fiends who in hot weather write
Of snakes.
VIC.
Syd. O.
IT DID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Bring cithara and clavicymbalum ”
(So read the poet at the Bushman’s Arms) ;
“ Bring manichord and dulcimer and lute,
And let the plectrum sweep across the lyre,
As erst by Nilus’ stream, when Antony
Wooed Egypt’s fairest one. Let man and maid
• T oin voice with sounding systrum and kanoon,
While haekbutts help, in music’s unison,
To hymn my lady’s ” Here “ Excuse me, please,”
Obliging Lottie said; “ I’m sorry, really,
But we ain’t got a single one er these.
I s’pose the concertiner wouldn’t do?"
VIC.
N.L.


WOLFE’S
SCHN APPS.
A SENSIBLE STim/IANT
Z5/>e LAD IBS’
"Fx&R” Watch
At £6 Os.
- Is a {-Plate Lever. Is jewelled in 15 holes.
Has a Ruby roller jewel. Has solid Mot. gold case.
Has Brequet Hair Spring.
Has compensated and adjusted balance.
Is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two
years (breakages excepted) without charge.
It will stand hard riding and knocking about.
It is made in every style of case.
It goes with profound accuraoy.
Lady’s f-plate Lever, Solid 14ct. Gold Case,
£0 6a ; ditto, 18ct. Case, £7 7s.
"“•SST"* FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,' n “ o,d tg^7 H ""23 Hunter St.
“David H. Richards”: Some time ago
the Scone (N.S.W.) Pastures Board decided
against poisoning as a means of destroying rab-
bits, on the ground that it also destroyed the
natural enemies of the pest; but the practice is still
carried on in other districts, and as a result hun-
dreds of goannas, carpet-snakes, cats and hawks
(a great enemy of the rabbit) have been killed,
besides scores of horses, cattle, and pigs, hundreds
of sheep (more than anyone suspects), and great
numbers of kangaroos, emus, and the desirable
native turkey. There is not much doubt either
that the presence of phosphorus has been respon-
sible for a good many disastrous fires. The rab-
bit is nowadays about the only animal that
passes the phosphorised bait; that astute party
prefers blue grass or nardoo.
• • • •
“ Brae ” : How’s this for a cross counter
for the little black ant, the terror of housekeepers
and campers? Always had the notion that the
only way to dodge him was to place the food
in the middle of a vessel of water. A friend
suggested the drawing of a chalk line round the
article, and it is a great success. I now begin to
understand a scene in “ Richelieu ” which used to
puzzle me. I guess the Cardinal really drew a
chalk line around the lady.
HOPELESS ON THE FACE OF IT.
THE BENCH : “Poverty is no excuse. You had better beg than steal.”
ACCUSED : "‘Beg! Beg! Let yer Worship go out an’ try to beg your bread with a face like
that, an' you’ll understand what sorter chance a beggar has with a face like this
“ Calioo ” : On the subject of cockies’
hours. One soil-scratcher near Crystal Brook
(S.A.) quarrelled with his “hand,” who departed
cn foot amid a halo of language, and went on a
jamboree. The plough rusted while the boss
hunted up a substitute. Finally he struck a
likely one in a pub ten miles away. Being ques-
tioned, the likely one said he had been a sailor,
and as he had ploughed the ocean for 20 years he
guessed he could plough any selection that ever
disfigured God’s earth. A bargain was struck.
Cocky hauled the likely one into the dray and
clung to him as a last hope till they reached
home. After tea, however, the last hope made
tracks to the shanty for another drink, and got
back about 3 a.m. Cocky came with a lighted
candle to wake the new hand and found him up.
“ What! ”he said ; “ yer able to get up without
being called ?” Matters were explained, and the
hope rose later. Next morning the cocky woke
him up at 3 a.m. again (usual hour), and the hope
succumbed to entreaties and went to work. About
7.30 a.m., however, he was missing. The boss,
cursing, went to the bedroom and found the hope
in bed undressed. “What the ’ell you doin’
’ere ?” he asked in blankest amazement. “ You
go and get ter ’ell ! ” answered the hope. “ Ain’t
it me watch below ? ” The hope left.
THE FIRST LAW OF NATURE.
MRS. FLYNN: “ Mike! Mike!”
MR. FLYNN : “ Howld yer whist, yeh fool woman,
I’m perfectly safe.”
“The Moocher ” : Abo. -liars have been
at each other beak-and-claw over smell competi-
tions, snake puzzles, magpie lies, etc. I would
suggest “ The Biggest Curse Out-Back ” as
worthy of some of their ink. Let me nominate
the man that leaves gates open as boss-cock and
sire of ’em all. He will travel over 50 miles of
closely settled country, throw down slip-rails,
open gates, and never close anything. This
maniac may be either parson, bullocky, rouse-
about, hawker or just plain hog. When such
travel periodically over a station, it means that
someone has to ride through after them and close
up. Place where I was, in a district much cursed
by these people, had gates all through, and those
of easiest possible manipulation. A man had
only to breathe the smell of two rums on ’em and
lo ! they were open. To close them any temper-
ance mixture would do. Yet these devils would
pile logs against them to keep them back, and,
when logs were wanting, walk a mile to get a
"1121 b. boulder ! Does anyone know a bigger bush
curse than this ?
The way in which some of the
best land in Victoria is allowed to become over-
run with thistles, stinkwort, and other noxious
weeds is a disgrace. The small cockies have
attempted to keep them down, but the big
monopolists allow their land to become a seeding
ground for the thistle. Then the wind and birds
come along and re-sow the small man’s land. The
result is that if a cocky farmer tries to clear his
land of noxious weeds, he has to be continually
cutting fresh crops of them, owing to tbe neglect
of his big loafing neighbors. Then if the shire
councils talk about enforcing the Thistle Act on
the big loafers, a howl goes up that it will cost too
much, and they will have to leave the land. But
if farmers, holding up to 300 acres each, can
deal with the thistle, and a squatter with 300,000
acres can’t, why doesn’t the big, persecuted brute
subdivide his land into a thousand farms, and
then he won’t be ruined.
• * * «
“ H. C. Jackeroo ” : Am out for bush ex-
Eerience —not on a back-blocks station, but in a
ack-blocks school. I stay at a pub at Taylor’s
Arm, a place where the natives live on wattle-
gum most of the year, and will not speak to
ordinary travellers when the gooseberries are
ripe. One man hadn’t spoken to me for the
whole gooseberry season until the
other day, when he came to consult
me about a hive of bees. He stated
that the bees in his hive are not
of the orthodox, industrious brand.
They loaf on him whenever his back
is turned, and in order to make
them work at night to compensate
for lost time, he had been trying to
cross them with the fire-fly. His
experiments had failed, and he
wanted the local brat-stamper’s
opinion as to whether the two kinds
of insect would cross. I couldn’t
give him an expert opinion, so he
continues to experiment. Out
watching his bees the other night
he went to sleep alongside a wire
fence. When he awoke he found
he had contracted a severe cold,
and, looking round for the cause,
discovered that the middle wire of
the fence was gone, consequently he
had been sleeping in a draught.
He came over to the pub to
consult me about the cold. I
advised a dose of eucalyptus, and,
in compensation for the advice, he
invited me into the bar. We called
for our poison, and he placed a
wallaby-skin on the counter. Mr.
Public-house put the wallaby-skin
under the bar, and, pulling out the
till, paid over the change—two
’possum scalps. Then my friend
went home to take the eucalyptus,
and knowing that “three fingers”
was a fair average dose of tangle-
foot, he naturally thought that the
same rule would apply to all medi-
cines, so he took three fingers of
eucalyptus. This, of course, made
him smell abominably, and when last I saw him
that night he was being chased up the lamp-post
in front of the pub by a bear-shooter’s dog, which
probably thought it had run to earth the father
of all the native bears in the district.
■****
“ Stony” : A man came down the street
on a bike—a man with a square jaw, and a
heavy black beard-stubble upon it. Beside him
ambled a plain, white dorg, with a fierce frown.
On the sidewalk a quiet man stood and watched
the biker coming down the hill. Ashe approached,
the quiet man’s dorg ran out into the road, smiling,
and made friendly advances towards the plain,
white dorg. The man with a jaw put on a scowl.
“ Call ’im off," he said, raucously, “ unless y’ want
’is ear chewed ! ” The quiet man made a sound,
and his dorg and the plain, white one became
suddenly as one animal, so rapid were their move-
ments. In a few moments the quiet man’s dorg
joined his owner, and they went slowly off up the
hill together towards the pub, while the plain,
white dorg lay motionless upon the ground. The
plain, white dorg was dead.
THE NEWS THAT BILL WAS KILLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Prom Wombat Creek to Digger’s Plat
Is forty miles or so
Along the winding coach-road that
Is used by Cobb and Co.;
But if you take the bridle track
That strikes across the ridge,
It’s barely forty there and back—
By way of Bushman’s Bridge.
The Murphys lived at Wombat Creek—
A lively township then ;
Big pay-days every second week,
And crowds of single men.
The Murphys kept a boarding house,
And-r-simple truth to tell—
Dike folks of energy and nous
They did extremely well.
And Wombat township thrived apace ;
The steady yield of gold
Attracted people to the place,
And land was bought and sold.
To help a town, on solid lines
To thrive and boom, my friends,
There’s nothing like a dozen mines
All paying dividends !
But then the way of mining men
Of high or low degree,
Is to be somewhat careless when
The gold is coming free.
(I should say “ freely,” never mind,
’Tis as your Worship says !)
But lew among them, you will find,
Prepare for rainy days.
A dull time came for Wombat! Why,
I can’t pretend to show ;
But salaries were not so high,
And gold returns grew low.
The miners’ wages did not change,
But where four men would be,
The shift-boss had to so arrange
To do the work with three 1
Among the working miners who
Could find no place to fill
Was one whom everybody knew
As Tambaroora Bill,
A young, good-natured sort of chap,
Not one to boast and brag,
And somewhat over-fond, mayhap,
Of Murphy’s daughter Mag.
Just as we see the lodestone drag
The needle as it will,
So were the eyes of Murphy’s Mag
To Tambaroora Bill 1
And thus, although he went to seek
Por gold at Diggers’ Plat,
He came on Sundays, every week,
To Murphy’s for a chat!
I think I mentioned Bushman’s Bridge ?
From there in one mid-week
Unpleasant news came o’er the ridge
To startle Wombat Creek.
It was no joke, no empty ruse,
By which the town was thrilled,
A swagman ’twas who brought the news—
The news that Bill was killed !
And then a story went around
That Bill was wont to bet;
That he had wasted every pound,
And was, in fact, in debt 1
The Murphy boarders seemed to see
A chance in this ; until
Not one of them but claimed to be
A creditor of Bill!
For boarders’ wits were not too slow
Fresh reasons to afford
For still continuing to owe
A month or six weeks’ board !
And when the long-lost Bill turned up
As right as right could be,
Those liars drained from sorrow’s cup
The dregs of miseree !
They’ve seen no finer wedding yet—
Most likely never will—
Than that of Murphy’s Margaret
And Tambaroora Bill.
For Bill had struck it fairly rich,
And it was whispered that
He had indeed a golden ditch
Across at Diggers’ Plat!
’Twas just the same old tale we meet,
The same old song that’s sung,
At every corner of the street,
When banks or firms “ go bung ! ”
What losses people have incurred !
What bargains unfulfilled 1
Just like those boarders when they heard
The news that Bill was killed 1
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) mil be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under .
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Hindon : Some humor in “Blob,” but words
fail to do injustice to the metre. Couldn’t say anything
too bad about it... .G.N.: There’s no “ ordinary rate ”of
remuneration in such a case....A.H. : “Australian
Morning " reminds us of the sun rising in radiance behind
a hen-coop....Budgeree: “ Wo-Manly ” useless... .Nox :
Very slim trifle A.J.W. : “New Theology” would
have had a better show if it hadn’t been so hard to read.
....Dingo : You aren’t a poet. Don’t know what you
are Alfred B.: If you forwarded stamps with manu-
script then it would be returned (if rejected). If you
didn’t, then the basket swallowed it (if rejected), along
with hundreds of others, and to send stamps now is the
same as running after the train that started last week...
O.: “ Lord Knows How ” rejected after hesitation. Nine
subject; moderate verse. “ Bustling of the Trees ” only
rustles now when the breeze blows through the
basket P.C.K.: “Greed” nearly got in. “ Georgie-
Porgie” didn’t nearly get in N.G.: “Wanderlust"
goes with a good swing, but it swings along too old a
track, and its seven-league boots are the same old b00t5....
Oliver H.: ’Tec story doesn’t hang together any too
well. For instance, why didn’t the bull camel attack
the Afghans?.. ..Mudkins : Impossible metre 8.5.:
“Token” took its way (alas!) to the basket....Olif
Anson : But what, or where, or by whom is that “ popu-
lar clamor ” against which you protest in six very bad
verses? Violet B.: A gentle little scrap—mostly
“ Good-Night.” Caper : You merely stagger
H.E.W.: “ Body’s Strength ” too lumpy. “Absence”
nearly found a place, but didn’t Ugly Duckling: (1)
Verse doesn’t stir us. Story too slight a thing. That man
scorned by that girl (who really didn’t mean it) has been
drowned in twenty-three Bulletin stories already. Now,
if you had only butted him to death by a ferocious goat, or
pecked him to deathby an agitated hen . (2) Accepted
and paid-for contribution will appear in due—or over-due
—time. (3) A nice little story, showing observation,
but not clever enough for B. Try it elsewhere....
....N.H. : “Joey” hopelessly wooden and incon-
gruous....L.M. : “Cadger” cheap melodrama —rum,
murder, and horrors Mcßooney : Always suspect
stories in which “the facts are perfectly true.” Litera-
ture isn’t a fact. Also, don’t roll your copy ; keep it
flat—not necessarily as flat as your story... .F.L.B. :
Mere prosaic facts, and this world is already un-
comfortably crowded with facts....E. Laurie: Rhymes
too rocky B.D. : Don’t be so long-winded....
H. McL. : Don’t be so dashed long-winded
G.J.: “Rake’s Song” pretty good, but a better rake
raked the same furrow with a bigger rake only the other
day... .A.0.G.: “ Poplar Path ” will do.. ..St. John Bee :
About as stimulating as a tram-car.... 0. van B. : Care-
lessness in rhyme and obscurity of expression spoiled
several interesting verses. Leo Osborne: All just
lack the necessary inspiration....M.S.C.: If “ Hope-
less ” is your pen-name, we acquiesce Goff:
Nothing in the sample submitted. How can we
say whether you show promise when you’re only sixteen ?
The only really promising man we know is 65. When
he’s thirsty he’ll promise anything....J. Peacocke: We
are tired of the old wail of regret that you didn’t marry
that love of long ago. We have known equally regretful
men who did J.W.M.: Caedmon, the first English
poet, is dead. Sometimes, when we are worrying
through verse like yours, and when we consider Alfred
Austin, we wish that his art had died with him....
Roslyn : Something in it, but too vaguely put....
M.P. Kearin: Uninspired Dorcas Blake, Arthur
Spencer, and a mob of others: Mere descriptive
matter is no use to us unless remarkably well
done. Yours isn’t Sauville : Your “Episode”
is three episodes, and even they aren’t episodes....
J.G.D.: Labored humor. If you had your deserts it
would be hard labor.. ..Pen Mate: You call that a story?
L.M.N.: You can’t rhyme “enough” with the
“ Slough ” of Despond ; you must have been thinking of
snake-skins. Also, not even in this muggy weather can
you rhyme “more” with “Creator. The Creator
mightn’t like it Bonny: “Reminiscences” milk-and-
water L. Jupp : Your name is more original than your
yarn. It is just plain, rude horror, and “ remains," and
dead man, and dead sheep, and haunted hut, and terror
in the moonlight Birkhead : Only point in your story
was the point of the pin that held it together—and that
pricked us in the left thumb Phoenix : Out of date....
Jack Rugby : Suggestive ; that’s all R.M.P. : You have
an enviable temerity to label that a story....A.L. : Con-
sidering “ Adelina’s'Legs ”; other subject, after Adelina,
quite uninteresting Joice M.M. : Put your dog-story
back into his kennel One of Them: Mere meander-
ings, and sometimes it is hard to tell meanderings from
maunderings.. ..John Irven : A poet must have a large
confidence in himself to send in a fifty-line ode to wattle.
J.A.S. : “Lyre Bird” just missed the ’bus. The
other tvvo didn’t even see the tail end of the vehicle
through a telescope Roonick : Just caught the basket.
...Alastor: Incomprehensible; maybe it’s merely humor..
P. A. Butler (Tenterfield) : The Date Book can be ordered
from J. J. Miller, printer, Melbourne Nameless:
Can’t see a hope among them Syd. C.: “Night and
Morning ” killed by the same old attempt to rhyme
“ dawning ” with “morning.” Others may have a chance.
... .L.E. : You shouldn’t make your hero “crush down a
wild, unreasoning desire to take her in his arms and
comfort her.” So many heroes have done that in family
novelettes. That story is spoiled by sentimentality. The
other yarn doesn’t say anything in a vaguely sorrowful
voice.. ..L.E. : Poets in this sunny land shouldn’t
“ dream of a clay-cold bridal bed.” Anyhow, they can’t
dream clay dreams in an unagricultural paper like this.
Your “Motherland” is more promising. Try. it in
ordinary verse... .H.B. : Nautical ballad is not even
naughty. Other died of inanition M. Siede : One may
be taken ; there is no doubt about the other being left....
Bush Girl: Shows observation, but that subject has been
more aptly handled John Gates: Yes, a poet can use
any metre or rhythm that he dashed well pleases ; but,
then, you aren’t a poet.... J. McL. : “ Tin-Canning” dull
—dull—very dull Kismet: Batch of poems shows little
promise. You say that “your throats swell forth your
souls’ proud gush.” Well, perhaps they do. As for
“Earth—Hell,” why drag in Earth? Your picture of
Satan is framed here as a warning :
Ha ! now he returns with soul-curdling glee,
His chariot full to the brim
Of wriggling corruptibles shrieking aloud—
He laughs at the hellish din.
W. E. Ston: A hopelessly J impossible yarn....E. B.:
“ Life ” is a very bleak and casual piece of pessimism
Blister : What’s the use of asking why we didn’t exile the
Chow as w’ell as the Kanaka ? The Kanaka came here
under an agreement which provided for his return, so it
was simply a matter of enforcing the agreement. The
Chow had no such agreement... .Sea Weed : For heaven’s
sake learn to condense Ossian : Twice-told tales....
Budgeree: Alas, the basket rose and ate the little thing
you had dashed off Unsuitable :R. M. Hall, S. Brand,
W. Brown, D.B.K.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E.W. : Poor drawing, and that Friday-fish joke
shouldn’t be dug out of its grave any more TedJ. :
But why should the great actor bail up a strange, un-
kempt kid and ask him (the boy) if he, had ever seen him
(the great actor)play Julius Caesar?..i.T.O.N.U.: Gone
to its elongated domicile.


“ Action to bring Into operation what are known
as the quarantine clauses of the Gaming Act was taken
yesterday. The premises aimed at are what are gener-
ally spoken of as the Collingwood tote, and a place in
Bourke-street. which is said to be the headquarters of
'a well-known betting club."
Anyone frequenting the quarantined area is held to
be an infected person within the meaning of the Act,
and is dipped and vaccinated on the spot. The effective-
ness of this method establishes the opinion that the
gambling fever is a germ disease.
Farmer Day. at Metho-
dist Conference :
“ IJevoted one acre
of my crop to the
fund. And in the
drought year, though
the ground was bare as
that floor in many
places, the crop in that
paddock was high and
strong.”
MORE SECRET COM-
MISSIONS.
Holy Cocky : " I trust in
Providence that we
may continue to work
together to our mutual
advantage—me allow-
ing you the usual per-
centage on the pro-
fits.”
WOMAN'S WORK EXHI-
BITION.
Exhibitions of this kind of
handiwork might be In.
eluded.
THE mail contract uproar.
Australia: “After all, it’s mostly a
row about the spoil; and I’m
of being someone else’s
“ Fortunately Australia stands in
need of no favors from (treat Britain.”
"Age,” fare-welling Deakin.
The Yopth : “Yes, and just a word,
Alfred. Don*t be too Affable when
Great Britain wants favors from
us.”
Ex-actress Ada Ward, now a raging evangelist,
has a call to convert Australia, and puts particular
stress on the wickedness of the theatre.
The Evangelist: <• Especially, beloved sisters, must I
exhort you against this idolatrous worship of
the stars.”
VICTORIAN SINS AND EPISODES.


QUITE TEMPORARY.
Mr. Ashton, N.S.W. Minister for Lands, says he intends to retire “temporarily" from politics.
THE RETIRING ONE: “I'M GOING TO LEAVE TEMPORARILY. I CAN’T STAND THE SHELL. YOU CAN HAVE MY SHARE. JUST
PICK ME UP ON YOUR RETURN WHEN THE CART’S EMPTY.”


rnmumtimmmma
PERSONAL
ITEMS
They seem very anxious to “ think im-
perially” in London. B. R. Wise, K.C., doesn’t
find hisK.C. recognised there as it is “only a
colonial affair,” so to speak.
The late Dr. Rudall, of Melbourne, held
a diploma that was yellow with age ; it was issued
in 1854. He did many things in his life ; among
others, he helped in the last search for the frozen
bones of Franklin, the Pole-hunter.
Ex-politician John Darling, of S. Australia
(who never got nearer office than to lead the
Opposition), has been made chairman of the big
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. —the first time a S.
Australian has climbed up to that gilded perch.
The widow of the one-time Victorian Chief
Justice Stawell is still living in England. She
belonged to a rare old sporting family, the Moles-
worth Greenes, of Victoria. She married William
Stawell in 1856. He died at Naples in March,
1889.
Governor-General Northcote takes his
responsibilities with some seriousness. He now
announces a trip to the Northern Territory—the
only part of the Commonwealth he has not yet
visited. The trip should have some value. It
will at least show to the intending European
emigrant that the Territory is accessible to
civilisation, and that a Governor can live there.
John Malcolm, a Gentleman One, who was
struck off in Sydney last week, had had a pre-
vious adventure of the kind. He was struck off
in 1898, and got back in 1903, and now he goes off
again in 1907. This time he fell over a matter of
£ 1 paid to square a claim for buggy smash. The
awful numerousness of the small, superfluous, un-
successful Gentleman One is' typified by these
four “quid.”
It is cabled that Greig, Hector Fraser and
Donald MTntosh have divided the big pigeon-
inurdering prize at Monte Carlo. There was a
time when the Frasers and the MTntosh push
put on their kilts, and blew hard on the bag-
pipes, and went out to kill something that was
big enough to hit back. Now the clans chase mice
with the claymore in their old age.
Died recently at Bondi (Sydney), Donald
Macintyre, the Cattle King of Northern Queens-
land. His career to the Two-Horned Crown
began in 1865, when he started cattle-raising at
Dalgonally, in the Gulf Country. When he died
he owned four stations, Dalgonally, Augustus
Downs, Fiery Downs and Lochnagar. He and
his brother Duncan took part in the _ search for
explorer Leichhardt in the early sixties, and
Duncan died on the expedition.
EDWARD DYSON, author of “Factory 'Ands”
and other good Australian works.
Died at Coolgardie (Westralia) Wentworth
D’Arcy, aged 62, third son of the late Edmund
Blucher Uhr, Queensland Assembly’s Usher of
the Black Rod. The Uhrs are old in Australia,
one of the earliest being Mr. George Uhr, who
was clerk in the N.S.W. Sheriff’s office in the
thirties, and retired as Under-Sheriff early in the
sixties.
Queensland Governor Chelmsford recently
sent his eldest son to the Southport (Q.) High
School. But, alas, it isn’t such good news as it
ought to be, for Southport High School is English
in everything but the little bit of ground the
place stands on. The headmaster is an imported
parson, who had a “house” at Cambridge; the
staff has been carefully brought out from the Cold
Country to teach the accurate “ haw” ; and there
is a private chapel, where the correct Oxford bleat
is practised.
In the Parliamentary recess, Heitmann,
M.L.A. for Cue in Westralian Assembly, works
underground in the Great Fingall mine, and
some of his constituents who are out of work
don’t like it. Heitmann’s reply is that the Par-
liamentary screw of £2OO a-year won’t let a man
loaf half his time. The acting-Mayor of Cue
spoke the mind of the malcontents lately,
whereupon Heitmann : “ Who is this acting-
Mayor of Cue? Only a parasite, existing on the
frailties of his fellow men.” Which was Heit-
mann’s way of saying that the acting-Mayor
keeps a pub—an easier thing to keep than
your temper when the thermometer bobs between
110 and 120.
Apropos N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley’s
advice to barristers to get the blessed fee in
advance. Years ago, a well-known Sydney bar-
rister was briefed in a big case by a leading firm
of attorneys, and there was a robust sum of
money marked on the brief. The case did not
come into court, and the barrister, in returning
the document, demanded his fee. The firm said
it had been sent with the brief. The barrister
said it hadn’t arrived. Then the firm’s accountant
opened the returned brief and found the cheque
inside, where he had originally placed it. The
barrister hadn’t even opened the paper. _ The
name of that barrister was— well, he’s a judge
now.
James Kidman, at one time well known in
commercial life in Sydney, and a large Govern-
ment contractor for food stuffs, died during the
week, aged 55 years. The original Kidman
(Charles) was a soldier in Colonel Bloomfield’s
11th Regiment. He married Mrs. Mathews, a
storekeeper at Paddington, and extended the
little scrap of business till it became one of large
proportions. One of his step-daughters married
the late John See.
A Victorian youth who was manifestly born
to be drowned met his fate in the Yarra. He
was found awhile back in the Fitzroy Gardens,
almost dead from poison, self-administered, but
was overhauled and put right again. A few days
back, being a powerful swimmer, he broke the
municipal by-laws to get an afternoon refresher,
and dived off the river bank near Kew. But in
his mouth he wore a roof-plate carrying a single
false tooth ; this stuck in his throat, and when he
sank in the course of his dive he remained sunk.
Melbourne architect J. H. Grainger, who
w,on the prize for a design for the Town Hall
additions, has a proud record in such things. He
took first prize for his Princes Bridge design
(duly carried out); first for Sale swing
bridge; first and third for George and
George’s warehouse; first for Auckland (M.L.)
Public Library; first and third for Bris-
bane-public offices ; and he holds Paris Exhibition
gold medals for similar work; besides which he
designed Perth Houses of Parliament, Law
Courts, Public Library and Mint. But the work
he is most proud of is son Percy, the pianist.
Mrs. Helen Mackie Baillie, an old identity
of Wynyard Square, Sydney, thought she warned
off the legal crows and hawks when she made a
number Of bequests conditional upon there being
no legal squabbles. But all the same a couple of
charitable institutions, which were entitled tosome
£20,000, came before the Equity Court last week,
and a long array of senior and junior wig-wearers
appeared in the interest of various claimants.
Mrs. Baillie had willed that, if these institutions
applied to Parliament to vary the trusts, the
bequests should go to her next of kin. Since then
the institutions were incorporated under Act of
Parliament, and the question arose whether that
fact voided the trusts. The Court held it didn’t,
and the roster of wig-wearers collected as large
fees as if it did.
“ Holy” Hindle who, 15 years ago, entered
the N.S.W. Legislature as a Labor member and
who was defeated at last election for the House of
Representatives as an Anti-Sosh, has gone to
London for a holiday, which will be used, he says,
in endeavoring to induce 100 families to emigrate
to Australia. So Mr. Hindle, the ex-Laborite,
told the Merchants’Association, which gave him a
send-off. Which recalls that Mr, Hindle had, a
send-off of another sort on one occasion. While in
the House, he accused Henry Copeland of being
under the influence of liquor, and Copeland gave
him a send-off. Hindle didn’t leave for England
that time, but he left in haste for the door and
emigrated up Macquarie-street.
A note from a man who says he knows,
him:—
Joseph (or “Jos," as he always signed his heathen
name) Symes, a strenuous fighter all his life—his hand
against every man, and many a hand against him —has at
last gone under. He died a day or two after Christmas,
in London, where he had not long since arrived from
Australia. The tall, lean atheist was “ anti ” everything,
royally reckless, absolutely fearless, utterly “impos-
sible,” yet wholly honest. His widow and only daughter
(Stella Bradlaugh) are left penniless. George William
Foote, chief of the English atheists, is raising a fund on
their behalf. There should be not a few Australian un-
believers who would be willing to lend a hand, and if they
send the mite to Mr. Foote, 2 Newcastle-street, Farring-
don-street, London, E.C., it will reach its destination.
“ 5.T.8.” writes :
In Bullktin (21/2/’O7) I notice a reference that Joe
Thompson had been a bookmaker since 1857. I have
been waiting for some one to contradict it. The first time
I saw Thompson was at the Mountain Creek rush (Vic.)
in 1860. He was a second in i two-days prize fight between
a negro and a young Irishman. The former won. Joe
was then clad in flannels and moleskins. At night he was
M.C. in a dancing saloon. Next year (186 l) I met him at
Rutherglen (Vic.), He was M.C. then in old “Forty’s”
dance room. I next went to Forbes (N.S.W.) and worked
for wages on South Lead. Thompson was there amongst
the boys and girls as noisy as ever. I moved on, in 1863,
for Lambing Flat, and left Thompson at Forbes. The
next I heard of him he had won a lot of money on Don
Juan and built a large house at St; Kilda. That must
have been in 1865 or 1867. So Thompson can thus hardly
have been 50 years a bookmaker.
The one weak point in this story is that Thompson
might have been bookmaking in 1857 without a
man who only made his acquaintance in 18G0
being any the wiser. And Don Juan must have
been a mighty young horse in 1865 or 1867. He
was only one year old in 1870.
Alas, how the public forget! When
Richard Seddon died, eight months ago, Maori-
land donned thick crape and went into heavy
mourning, and would not be comforted, for its
Seddon was not. When the.first grief was some-
what assuaged, the Maorilandors said, “ Let us
build up a great monument to our illustrious de-
parted.” And they met at Wellington and
talked freely and generously of gathering together ?
a hundred thousand pounds. Their ambitions
have dwindled so much since then that the objec-
tive sum is but £20,000, while the actual subscrip-
tions amount to only a paltry £lOO. In their ex-
treme poverty the promoters of the grand
memorial that was to he went the other day to
Bill Jones (Maoriland’s stand-by Premier, the
Minister who goes on to the bridge whenever the
captain dies or is called away from duty) and
asked for a site for their memorial. But Jones
was unsympathetic—the Government had all sorts
of uses for the land coveted by the committee, and
the request of the deputation could not be granted.
As if thiB were not sufficient to show how utterly
Seddon is forgotten, the Wellington Times came
out the other day with the late Premier’s name
spelled S-e-d-o-n.
u Melb.” writes:—
The deceased missionary Paton’s autobiography is a
good sixpennyworth. The Cottar’s Saturday Night was
exemplified by his father, a poor stocking weaver, work-
ing 14 hours a day. Paton volunteered for the hew
Hebrides. He and his wife were placed on Tanna,
November sth, 1858. Poor Mrs. Paton died inside
four months. She was a gently-nurtured young lady of
refinement, “daughter of Peter Robson, Esq., of Cold-
stream on the Border." Paton’s life on Tanna reads
like a tale of Deadwood Dick. Under abominably
bungled circumstances, be was sent to Sydney to raise
money for a missionary ship, and seems to have come
precious nigh starvation. However, his pluck con-
quered, both in Sydney and Melbourne. He sent £3OOO
to Nova Scotia to build the Dayspring. Then he went to
Scotland, and engaged a lot of missionaries for the New
Hebrides. Returning to Sydney, he got a shock. The
Dayspring was there. It had been to the New Hebrides,
and landed missionaries, and the unpaid crew clamored
for wages. The Captain said the brigantine must be
mortgaged or sold. Paton raised £456 by subscription in
three days, and shouted “ Jehovah-Jireh !” He went
to the New Hebrides with a second wife, and labored on
Aniwa. The Dayspring was wrecked. Paton went to
Scotland again, routed up the Sunday school pennies,
and got another Dayspring, twice as good, an auxiliary
steamer costing £7OOO. It, too, plunged on a reef, and
was swallowed up by the hungry ocean with its canni-
bal stomach.
THE GAMBLING CURSE.
“ Hullo! Wot's up? You look worried.”
“ I should think so. Some fellow just told me an absolute cert for the Newmarket , but he
stuttered , and I couldn't understand him."
It is something of a coincidence that the
two doctors ” who in late years have best illus-
trated the large gullible capacity of a section
of Americans should snuff out in one week—
Dowie and Oronhyatekha. Dowie soared to
notoriety and temporary affluence on the purple
wings of “Elijah ” ; Oronhyatekha made himself
Supreme Chief Ruler of the 1.0. F. insurance con-
cern. Their methods were much the same. Dowie
claimed to be a prophet; the man with the un-
pronounceable name got his advt. out of the fact
that he was a pure-blooded Mohawk Indian.
They adopted the same sort of literature, and
scattered their portraits with the same profusion;
Oronhyatekha couldn’t stay in a hotel or hoarding-
house 48 hours without producing a large-sized
picture of himself, and suggesting that it should
be hung up in the hall. Elijah tickled the
American sensation-hunger with a new religion,
but he had cunning enough to. see that the bait
would be sweeter if he could offer his “ converts ”
about 20 per cent, on their capital; Oronhyatekha
called his “religion” “fraternalism” and offered
life-insurance on some previously unheard-of
terms. Both of them mixed Mumbo-jumbo with
their finance; and, while Dowie had his purple
robes and Voliva his gorgeous raiment, the Red
Indian prescribed for his “Royal Foresters” a
uniform consisting of—
Coat, buttons, trousers, chapeau, fatigue cap, gloves,
sword belt, sword and rank insignia, shoulder straps,
shoulder knots or epaulets, baldric and despatch box or
grade sash, belt sash, sword knots, aiguillettes or leggings.
according to rank .... as defined and published by
authority of the Illustrious Supreme Commander.
What he didn’t do, among other things, was to
provide any surrender value for his policies—when
you went out you went out stony-broke. And
that was Dowie’s plan too.
About an old medico :
The death of Dr. James T. Rudall, of Melbourne,
aued 80 years, recalls the two famous trials
of Dr. J. G. Beaney, for the alleged slaying
of Mary Lewis, at Colling wood (Vic.), on March
15, 1866. Mary Lewis was a barmaid at the Terminus
Hotel, St. Hilda, kept by one Bennett. She had a child
in 1864, the expenses attending the confinement being
paid by Bennett. Something again went wrong, and the
girl went to a house in Collingwood, where Beaney
attended her. There she became seriously ill. Beaney
was said to have been in the room alone with
the girl for some time, and. to have taken
something ” away with him in a black bag.
Rudall and Dr. Pugh performed the post-mortem
in*)the absence of Beaney. Rupture of the womb
wa| said to have been the cause of death, said rupture
beihg allegedly occasioned by Beaney, who was com-
mitted for trial. On the first trial, the jury disagreed.
On the second trial, before Justice Williams the elder,
28 witnesses were examined, including many medical
men, who took sides. Turnbull, Crooke, Stewart,
Girdlestone, and Figg gave evidence for Beaney, for whom
also were in attendance Gilbee, Haig, Curtis, and Blair.
L. L.,Smith gave neutral evidence. Drs. Wilkie, Rudall,
Ppgh, Tracy, Halford, and Martin gave tongue for the
Crown. The address of Aspinall, for the defence, was
one of the ablest ever heard in that court. The second
jury acquitted. The costs were heavy, and Beaney had
to mortgage his personal effects to pay them. After the
trials he went ahead, became a Leg. Councillor, and a
walking jeweller’s shop by reason of his diamonds, and
died wealthy, leaving a lot of his money to the Cathedral
authorities at Canterbury (England). For some reason
they refused the gift.
The man with the shortest name among
Australian white men (Chinamen named Li don’t
count) has died in 9. Australia—Ey. But, to
make up for it, his father gave him the front
names of Julius Friedrich Wilhelm. He spread
himself out at various times as musician, miner,
smelter, farmer, and for 20 years school-teacher,
and no man was more widely known among the
big German community of 9. Australia.
After all, Senate President Gould isn t the
sturdy iconoclast he seemed when he attended
the opening of Parliament without the official
wig. Gould didn’t leave the horsehair at home
because his lofty spirit despised the flummery—
in fact, his lofty spirit was cussin because, he
didn’t have any flummery to put on top of it.
When Gould became President, he found that
the “ stock ” wig was made to enclose vaster in-
tellects than his, so he ordered one on the lower
scale. The new fixin’ was sent by mistake to
Justice Higgins, who was surprised at the un-
expected gift, but thought it might do at a pinch,
and hung on to it. As opening day approached,
and the nut cover didn’t arrive, Gould began to
wear a worried look ; then he became impatient,
and finally alarmed, and the telephone system
nearly collapsed under the language it had to
carry. Gould hung back to >the very last, ‘ ‘ ex>
pecting it every minute,” but in the end, a
wrathful, undistinguishedJooking man, in a
bare poll, stalked into the Chamber, and the
Senators ha:l to tell each other that the President
had arrived.
WHEN THE DAY ARRIVES.
Australia does contribute to the upkeep of the navy
under the Australasian squadron agreement, though it
gets much more than its money’s worth in return.—
Argus.
“ Well, I dunno! The other fellow seems to have
some boshter boats, but I’m hanged if I see
anything like that one of mine.”
The late Joseph Symes, who died in
London last December, ran the Liberator in Mel-
bourne for quite a number of years. He was born
in Fogland in ’4l and educated to be a Wesleyan
minister. For eight, years he wore the white
choker of a Methodist life; then he drifted into
agnosticism. But the evangelical habit of his
early days survived. As a man who didn’t know
there was a God, Symes preached even more
furiously then when he knew all about it. His
working life was divided into two sections. In
the first he made a little money by saying there
was a Deity ; in the second he made even less by
saying there wasn’t. In each case the little
money was all the money he had. Symes was
always financially unlucky.


It isn’t a Shop, it’s an Institution!
30,000 Customers Served Daily at the New Palace
Sgf!
*1
i\
X
mm
Sh 4 x
Ulliilil
ra, j; I i I
m
■:i i: -i
Lx
m
bT
m
B-
«P
; I!'
i mm] i
9&
.L- : .r
25
Jffi
sscS
jfiS
■■ •
Nri
SB
: ■-
£1
K
J V) j.ri::j
I
@3
Si!-
*■■ .tf jj i:.- -v
iii
S£V
ffi-a
-m:
4
5 S
B
HORDERN & SONS, ONLY UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS. SYDNEY N.S.W
ILafcor -Saving Machinery
Send for lllu.stra.ted Catalogue,
TOOLS OF ALL TRADES,
Post Free Anywhere.
ANTHONY HORDERN S
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
The Stair Power Saw - 955.
Price includes Six Saw Blades.
This Machine is designed for cutting iron and steel. It will cut any size up to
4| inches in diameter, and any .shape that can be held in the vice. It also cuts piping
very nicely. We do not claim great speed in cutting, but metal can be cut much
more rapidly in this Machine tli.an can be done in a Lathe or Planer, or by heating
and cutting with a Blacksmith’s Hack, and at a trivial cost. By its use a good per-
centage of metal is saved', as the cut are left smooth, and no labor or metal is
lost in squaring up, as in the case after heating and cutting with the Hack.
For cutting up die blocks,, and a thousand and one other things, the advantage of
using this saw will be manifest.
The Blades used for cutting are our Star Hack Saws.
For Brass work or thin tubing our blades with 23 points will prove most satisfac-
tory. Ordinary stock has 14 jpoints.
SCREWING MACHINES.
Green River Hand Bolt Thread Cutter
and Nut Tapper, for the Bench. Fitted wjth 9
sizes, 5-16, f, 7-16, J, §, f, | and 1 inch ; also Taps, Dies
in Collets, Chuck Wrenches (No. 20, Fig. 754), £l3 15s-
Weight, packed ready for shipment, 3cwt.
An excellent machine for Blacksmiths
and all repair shops. The gearing is
thrown out when doing light work, and
when running back off finished screws,
making quick return. It holds work both
straight and crooked.
Green River Bolt Thread
Cutter, Nut Tapper, and
Pipe Threading Machine
for Bench. Machine complete with Taps,
Dies in Collets for Bolts, J, 5-16, f, 7-16, £,
f, 1, i, 1, IJ, It, If, and 1£ inch ; also for
Pipe with adjustable Dies in Collet (right
hand), i, f, 1, IJ, 1£ and 2 inch (No. 10,
Fig. 758) .. ".. £32 lOs.
Weight, packed ready for shipment,
4cwt. Oqrs. 21bs.
Any crooked or odd shaped pieces can be threaded without straightening. The spindle is hollow, and
bolts of any length can be cut. For bolts Jin. and-under are- rapidly done with the gears out, by the handle
on the balance wheel. For larger work the gearing multiplies the direct force of the crank at the side of the
machine between six and sevenfold, and the arrangement is such that the Die being run sufficiently far on
the work, the gears may instantly be thrown out and the Die whirled swiftly back off the thread by means
of the balance wheel, making quick return.
Extra steel dogs are attached to the vice to secure large smooth pipe, which might sometimes slip into
the jaws. These are both made to cut exact Whitworth threads.
rl ffi
'Art''.
jEsiijni!
No. 20, Fig. 754.
No 406
Hand Lever Punching
Machine, with Clipping Attach-
ment, will punch Jin. diameter hole in Jin.,
iron, Gin. gap, C 2 (No. 406) ... £.4 ss.
Hand Lever Punching'
Machine, will punch Jin. hole in
Jin. iron, lOin. gap, B 3 ... £.3 lOs.
ANTHONY HORDERN ®. SONS,
ONLY UNIVERSAL
PROVIDERS & £>
Palace Emporium,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
N.S.W.


A Melbourne family contains a couple of
climbing charmers who talk in large tones about
motoring and golf and the Austral Salon. Also
it is blessed with an aged father who holds a
heavy purse. Unfortunately, this ancient,
although somewhat deficient in table manners,
insists on coming to meals whether “ company
is present or not. All kinds of unpleasant little
things happen, but the wildest consternation
arises when the old chap refers in matter-of-fact
tones to ‘ ‘ the time we kep’ th’ shop in Bourke-
street.”
Some Australian papers are gravely spread-
ing the startling discovery of London “ M.A.P.’
that sfiootin’, fishin’, and motorin’ are carried on
by “exclusive society” without the final “g, ’
and that those who aspire to the higher life must
say “ gyerl,” not “ gurl.” But what about good
old “girl’’with an “i”? On the stage and in
the haunts of the pretentious there are gairls,
gyerls, gells, gals, garls, gurls and ga-als. It’s
just about time for Girl to put her neat foot
down on this absurd straining at “exclusive'’
pronunciation.
A Dunedin (M.L.) pressman recently dug
some weird copy out of a visitor from Fiji. It
seems that, awhile back, a local medico reported
to the authorities (following the decision of a
Hyderabad Commission) that leprosy is not con-
tagious, and in consequence the Fijian leper was
treated as a free and independent citizen, with
perfect liberty to wander round in public places.
As he was a pretty numerous leper—there were
some 2000 of him distributed about the islands
he became quite a conspicuous public institution.
When it transpired, however, that lepers were
acting as cooks at hotels in Suva and elsewhere a
great shudder took possession of the authorities,
and they reckoned it was too much. So they
selected an island as a lazarette, and started out
to muster their 2000 lepers. They have found
most of them, but there are still a few stragglers
from the herd.
In Lassetter’s millinery and show rooms,
where the artistic Mrs. Leckie is now in charge,
there are on view some of the finest dreams for fair
women yet made or imported into Sydney.
Exquisite hats in the Romney, Cavalier, Picture,
and other latest and revived styles direct from
London and Paris. Theatre coats divinely
fashioned and frilled, tailor-mades from Vienna,
and frocks that might have come from Fairyland.
THE VALAZE MASSAGE INSTITUTE.—The
establishment of the Valaze Massage Institute in our
midst brings us up to date with Europe, as far as the
treatment and cure of all facial blemishes and disfigure-
ments are concerned. It is rather wonderful to think
that here, in far-away Australia, we can find the latest
cures for such trying disfigurements as red noses,
birth marks, warts, double chins, abnormal hollows,
wrinkles, &c. The Institutes are established at
158 Pitt-street, Sydney, and 274 Oollins-street,
Melbourne, where all the latest apparatus is installed,
while the treatment is in every way hygienic and anti-
septic, and the utmost care in this direction is exercised.
Here not only red noses, distended veins, superfluous
hairs, double chins, undue redness of the face, smallpox
marks, and almost every face disfigurement are eliminated
by one treatment or another, including the wonderful
suction and injection treatments, but the everyday wear
and tear, the roughened skin, wrinkles, blackheads, and
all the small blemishes are made to disappear, and a
fresh, clear complexion adds charm to the personality.
Mile. Rubinstein will be delighted if visitors and inquirers
will call at the Beauty Institute, 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney, or 274 Oollins-street, Melbourne, at any
time, when she will be happy to give all information
in her power about the various treatments or
any of the Valaze preparations. Valaze is the safest,
pleasantest and most reliable skin food on the world s
market. The effect of Valaze is certainly magical.
Freckles, tan, sallowness, sunburn a,nd almost every skin
blemish disappear under its spell immediately. After
regular appliances of Valaze the skin becomes fair ana
radiant. Three months’trial of Valaze will give you a
new complexion. It will rejuvenate you, and will leave
the muddiest skin as soft and glowing as a child’s. Valaze
is not an unknown, unproven preparation, but it is a
guaranteed Skin Food, which has stood the test of years,
and is a preparation of the cleverest skin specialists of
Europe. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Ccri
cures the most obstinate cases ; approved by medical
authorities. 2/6, posted 3/-. Valaze Herbal Soap,
beautifully cleansing and purifying, made from almonds
and rare herbs, 2/- cake, postage 2d. Rusmo Hair Killer,
for the home removal of superfluous hair ; won t harm
the most delicate skin ; has a great vogue in Europe.
5/-, postage 3d. Valaze is sold by Chemists everywhere
at 3/6 and 6/- jar. If posted direct from me, add 6d. for
postage. MLLE. HELENA RUBINSTEIN, 158 Pitt-
street, or 274 Oollins-street, Melbourne.
DYMOCK’S CIRCULATING LIBRARY is with-
out doubt the best institution of the kind m N.S.W. All
the best books are received by post from the publishers,
in more than adequate quantities, to meet any demanfl.
At other libraries it is found that members have often to
wait weeks for a popular book, but Dymoek’s supply the
books asked for at once. Country members may have a
parcel of eight books exchanged as desired for the sum ot
£2 12s. 6d. p.a., or £111s. 6d. for six months ; city ana
suburban members, two books and two magazines daiij
for the sum of £2 2s. p.a., or £1 5s. for six months,
one book and one magazine, £1 Is. p.a., or 12s. 6d. for
six months ; larger parcels and shorter periods at propor-
tionate rates. Every section of literature is represented,
including Fiction, Travel, History, Reminiscence, Belie
Lettres. All volumes are clean and fresh, each is coverea
in a neat green cloth. Write for catalogues to Dymock 3
Book Arcade, 428 George-street, Sydney.*
Court h Cause Removed.— When the cause of a
cough is removed the cough is rightly cured. But bew are
of the remedy that stops the cough but does not remove
the cause. A cough is simply a nervous spasm that is
natural when the respiratory tract is inflamed and con-
crested. It’s the condition of the membranes that shouia
be changed. When they cease to be irritated there "in
be no cough. Senior’s Black Currant Balsam will change
the condition quicker than anything you can take. «
contains no dangerous drugs and is pleasant to tase.
Price Is 6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Obtainable every
where. Prepared only at Senior’s Pharmacy, 246 George-
street, Sydney.*
Charles Heidsiock
BUMS
Ik
FINEST EXTRAS
CORA DRV
MISS ESSIE DAVIS,
Late with MARK FOY’S, Sydney, has taken a
Leading Position as Dressmaker with
GEORGE & GEORGE, LTD.,
OP MELBOURNE.
All Orders forwarded to her by her many
clients will receive prompt n|||ntion.
All Orders should be addressed to the Firm.
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES— IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 189(K
*§ dress Fabrics
trademark
Are \™ADmo Drapers.
the VARNISHED BOARD
39
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 12, 1907.
My Dear Arini,—
The Northcote and Rawson Excellencies, the
men and ladies-o’-war (land and marine—what old
Monk and Blake used to call the “Generals and
Admirals at Sea ”), and all the rest of the Some-
bodiesl, and most of the Anybodies, and such
Nobodies as can get in, will go to St. Vincent’s
Ball on April 10. Vice-regals have promised—
so the presence of the others is assured. Com-
mittee is brooding on eggs of thought, which,
when hatched, will prove “attractions’ for the
gallery and “ distinctive features ” in sets. _ Mrs.
John Barlow, Miss J. Glasheen, and Miss K.
M‘Killop are the honorary secretaries.
Another ball to be set rolling for a most worthy
purpose—the Crown Street Women’s Hospital-
will be held in the Town Hall on May 8. This
hosDital is so badly in need of funds that it is
nearly down to its last tuppence, and its boots
haven’t been half-soled for quite an age. It’s
ball ought to bounce well if its name is
altered, for it will be out of the ordinary
ruck. A “Literary Ball” is what its sponsors
have called it on the post cards of intimation. If
that title is retained people will stop away with
great enthusiasm. “ Literary ”is a scaring word
to most. Its originators say they intend to have
it a character-from-modern-fiction frisk —a Becky
Sharp, Beatrice Esmond, Sally Helen
Macgregor kind of thing. If American fiction is
not barred I’ll go as White-Fang. Hon. secs,
are Mrs. T. H. Kelly and Miss Amy Mowle.
Lady Northcote’s first public job in Sydney on
her return here will be the light labor of opening
the new Free Kindergarten, at Newtown, next
Tuesday. No corkscrew for this opening—just a
few well-chosen words, and possibly a crowbar if
the door gets stuck.
One of the strange inconsistencies of the Syd-
ney swimming world is that no ladies’ races are
permitted at the carnivals where men compete,
notwithstanding that women may be seen at
every ocean beach, except Manly, bathing with
the other sex at close range in identically _ the
same costumes. In Melbourne, where mixed
bathing is practically unknown, girls’ races have
been included in open carnivals for years past,
and nobody, except Lady Talbot, has ever
uttered a word of disparagement. And even
Lady Talbot did not object to the races. All
she did was to veto the practice of photographing
the damsels, so that people who wanted to study
them would have to pay Is. admission and view
the real thing, instead of getting a flat counter-
feit for 6d. in a weekly paper.
Dr. Gore Gillon, who, with his pretty wife,
once coruscated in Sydney, has just married
again in Wellington (M.L.) a beautiful young
golden - haired Kathleen. Curiously enough
the first Mrs. Gillon was also a Kath-
leen. She married a man of considerable
substance some years ago—soon after her first
matrimonial bonds were burst. Dr. Gillon’s
daughter Doris has said “Yes” to Mr. Harley
George, of Auckland.
Miss Ella Adams (sister of Arthur Adams, the
poet), of Wellington, is engaged to one of the
Spicers, of Auckland. And another Wellington
engagement is that of Miss “ Sally ’ Lukin,
daughter of the editor of the Post. The Lukins
are yet affectionately remembered in Brisbane.
Miss Sally marries an English importation named
Caw (not Haw).
Hear from a private source that one of our
biggest insurance companies wants three or four
young doctors (men who have just qualified) to
travel for six months and some coin, in its in-
terests, and cannot get them. Seems to be con-
siderable demand for doctors—bush townships
absorb a lot of them. On the other hand, solici-
tors are turned loose in large herds on a com-
munity that does not want half of them—in the
bush or elsewhere.
Tea-parties, marriages, and the Stage have
caused a dearth of artists’ models in London, so
Chelsea and St. John’s Wood artists told a press-
man who put a pointed nose and pencil into the
business. Models with refined heads and shapely
limbs are very rare. The perfect figure for nude
or partially-draped studies is so uncommon that
when one comes along the whole daubing brother-
hood wants to paint her, and then there is hardly
time to get the colors mixed before the lady
marries or goes on the music-ball stage. But the
black beast of the professional artist is the rich
amateur. The latter has the best models, and
they hang around his studio at afternoon teas,
and his friends give them chocolates and motor
drives.
Mr. Laurance Godfrey Smith, whose wonderful
way with the ivories was so appreciated at his
concert last week, will give another recital next
Saturday. A quaint recognition of his skill, as
well as of his association with the late Sydney
Moss, was the wreath handed up by twenty girls,
ex-pupils of the late teacher. M. Henri Staell,
Miss Rosina Buckmann, and Miss Violet Balmain
will add to the brilliancy of the night of melody.
Mr. Charles Hughes, sub-manager of the Union
S.S. Co. of Maoriland, has gone to Fiji, where
the bread-fruit grows, to take charge of the com-
pany’s business there for four months.
Another departer who has eaten the compli-
mentary meal and listened to the flattering toast
and butter is Mr. C. H. Hayes, secretary of Syd-
ney Exchange. He goes a trip with his daughter
Constance. The lady is engaged to Mr. Maurice
Toohey, but the wedding is postponed indefinitely
on account of Mr. Toohey’s ill-health.
A friend sends a line from M.L.:—
Munro, general manager of the Maoriland Exhibition,
the best-hated man in those happy isles, has appointed
himself judge at a Baby Show, to be held this week.
Surely now his end is in sight, and what a fate for such a
great man—to be slain by some infuriated, disappointed
mother of twins !
Plunket, Governor, wanted some trout-fishing in a
quiet little township in Canterbury, where there was a
comfortable inn, which eatered for anglers. He sent his
aide along to report on the prospects. The aide duly
arrived, fixed his monocle firmly in his eye, strolled along
the bank of the river keeping a languid look out for fish,
saw none, and reported accordingly. The Governor
decided not to waste any time there, to the wrath of the
landlord of the inn. Next day, an English angler arrived,
and within a few hours had pulled out 1681 b. of fine fish.
Mine host had the catch photographed, and sent a print
to Plunket, whose subsequent remarks to his aide are not
fit for publication. Now a new qualification will be
demanded of aides. They must carry wraps, and be good
judges of trout streams. . . . ~ .
Mrs. P. McGregor, of Dunedin, a niece of steel-king
Carnegie, has gone on a visit to Uncle at Skibo Castle.
The Feast of Hats is one of the few compensa-
tions of this holy, but ashen, period of Lent. The
Romney, the picture, the Lamballe, the cavalier,
the shovel shape, the shark-nose model, and the
French sailor are here for the season. Panne,
taffeta, chiffon velvet, crinoline, and felt are of what
they are principally made. And the colors —
emerald-green, asp-green, drake-green (very
“doggy” this), baize-green, and all the wine
shades and plum tones are _in the first flight
of fashion. As for feathers, if we were Pagans
(of the Old Testament style) we’d certainly make
unto ourselves a graven image—not a calf, but
a golden ostrich with a golden tail. 1 ( or ostrich
feathers of great length are paving in lofty pride
on many swell hats. Four are a quite common
occurrence in one hat, only they are not “in ” it
or “on” it —they are posed. One Sydney hat
temple has a white and amber model—one big
white plume, a lot of little yellow to pink roses,
and some fine silk lace. Another (all-brown) had
ostrich, cygnet, and marabout feathers ‘ ‘ posed
on one side and a Florentine ' uckle in front. A
few models have silver roses and veils.
In flowers, the camellia is revived, and is
flourishing artificially with great vigor. One of
the models at Lassetter’s is a picture hat—a real
head-poem of royal blue velvet with a cluster of
camellias, white and pink. In the Empress
Eugenie’s day women wore the camellia con-
stantly in dress and hair, and to-day French-
women wear natural camellias in the afternoon
and artificial ones at night.
An Australienne, scribbling from London, says
that to be on the top rung of smartness one must
have “a small waist, a full skirt and a cavalier
hat. The awful hour-glass waist is in, and the
wide skirt and sleeves help to emphasise its
awfulness.”
Mrs. Scot Skirving is returning to Sydney
after two years’ absence in colder parts. And
Dr. Clubbe and his pretty, fluffy little missus are
off for cooler climes this month.
Instead of giving his aldermen only the usual
quarterly midday meal at the Town Hall on
Saturday, Mayor Hughes and the Mayoress took
the big municipal cherubs and their wives for a
harbor trip on the Kurraba. A luncheon empha-
sised the fact that a sea trip brings an appetite.
The Kurraba loitered about Middle Harbor and
Watson’s Bay, and the 150 lunchers were put
ashore at Clark Island to do some hill-
climbing, a pastime for which our trams
have trained Sydney women. The weather
was beautifully streaky, like rainbow-cake —
shine, and cloud, and thundercloud, and sundries
—so the sea went through a lot of chromatic
changes —greens, blue, and purples. Whilst the
Kurraba wallowed opposite Harry Rickards’
monastery-like mansion, the white Condor obli-
gingly flew past into Farm Cove with a thunder of
blank cartridge, and the turbine Maheno also
obligingly furnished the seascape for a few
minutes as it outward-bounded. Town-Clerk
Nesbitt was on board, bent on a Maoriland holi-
day, and his locum tenens, Mr. Layton, tried to
look regretful on board the Kurraba.
Among the non-aldermanic guests on board
were Mr. and Mrs. Bonor, of the Norddeutscher
line, Mr. J. D. Fitzgerald, the “ Margaret
Thomas” Gordons, the Agricultural-Ministerial
Moores, Mrs. Wade, Mrs. Hogue, and Dr. and
Mrs. Taylor-Young. Also the party included a
bifurcated Sonnet in a beautiful grey hat and
clothes —Count Deym, of the German Consulate.
Report says that he doesn’t like girls, or Anything
green. Youth and prettiness cause him to sheer
off for protection to something seasoned and
mature, be it a he or a she.
The men-o’-war Napiers are due here from
London early in April. She is a picturesque and
amiable vessel, and will be a welcome returner to
this sunstruck land that knew her when her
flag-captain held rank on the Euryalus. He
returns as Mogul of Garden Island in succession
to the Stokes-Rees potentate.
New agent in Australia for the Messageries
Maritimes Co. is Monsieur de Bure. He succeeds
the very popular Brasier de Thuy, and will arrive
towards the end of this moist month of March.
Mr. and Mrs. T. B. Gaden celebrated their
golden wedding last Monday, amidst a rain of
congratulations from an army of friends. Fifty
years ago Mr. and Mrs. Gaden and Mr. and Mrs.
T. A. Dibbs celebrated their double weddings,
and to-day the two bridegrooms of half a century
ago are at the head of the Commercial Banking
Co. The T. B. Gaden, banker, is a generous,
genial, charitable citizen, so the “many happy
returns” that reached him were spoken with
sincerity.
Rose Musgrove is returning to Sydney pre-
sently, possibly on the Mongolia. Her last
appearance in London was at a “ Prisoner of
Zenda ” performance, in aid of the Princess Char-
lotte Hospital. It was played by a professional
and amateur caste. Nora Kerin —remember her
in Shakspeare here? —was the Princess Flavia.
She now cuddles a baby. Also, she has added
something to her weight. It is not possible by
taking thought to add one cubit to your stature,
but to add a stone to your weight is the simplest
achievement of thoughtlessness. Rose Musgrove,
Eva Mvlott, Nora Long, and Miss Mignon
Scantlebury sold programmes, and so achieved
£lOO. It must have been a large and moneyed audi-
ence, when these four charming bushrangeresses
could bail it up to that extent.
Amongst those migrating to England for the
summer are Mr. and Mrs. C. R. Blaxland, of
Wollun, near Walcha, where Mr. Blaxland has
resided for forty years. He is a grandson of
Gregory Blaxland, the explorer of the Blue Moun-
tains, who has a statuette to his memory in a niche
of the Lands Office. Gregory Blaxland planted
the first vineyard in Australia.
Residents of the wonderful cemetery suburb of
Waverley gave a farewell complimentary dinner
last week to Mr. Donald McDonald, who has
been manager of a branch bank there for many
years. No women were present (whenever
men compile an unusually splendid table of
Nourishment they shoo women away from
the festive premises, and bid them go and
have a bun in a bunnery by themselves),
but a girl whose Pa was a guest at the threat
Gulp, and who therefore had a menu, told me
there were twenty-eight dishes, not
that came under the heading of “ etceteras, lhe
guest-in-chief was given an illuminated address,
and Mrs. McDonald a silver and china tea service.
Everybody seemed to think that Mr; McDonald
had arranged Waverley’s overdrafts discreetly.
Mr. Watkins, Mayor of Waverley, was m the
chair. His eldest daughter is, by the way, to be
married in May to Mr. Harry Vaile, who owns a
motor car and other insignia of prosperity.
A lady writes from London, mostly about
mummeresses: —
Madame Jane Hading, the great French actress, gave a
flying inatin6e while I was at Bournemouth (for a change,
this beastly climate has trodden on my head already).
She was lovely—better almost than Bernhardt. Had
luck while at Bournemouth ; Ellen Terry also down with
flying matinee. (The flying matin6e is the only bird of
any size in this country.) Hers was the only woman s
part in the piece. I just adore her speaking voice. Saw
“The Geisha” revival twice. Don’t like the American
Importation, May de Sousa, at all. She looks very plain,
can’t deliver dialogue, and has anything but a startling
voice. Marie Studholme, as Molly Seamore, is very
pleasing and looks pretty, but I shouldn’t rave over her
beauty, despite the million and one postcards. Now
Edna May is lovely. Saw her in “1 he Belle of May-
fair” before the break, and couldn’t take my eyes
off her while she was on the stage. She hasn’t
a bad voice, but such a funny way of speaking-
sort of sings the last word of every sentence. At the
Derby, had a real good look at her, half fearing disillu-
sionment, but she is just as pretty off the stage as on.
Went to the only Patti concert this year—fearfully ex-
cited. She is a marvel, looks so young, and her voice is
wonderful. She sang Gounod’s “ Serenade ” beautifully—
her top-notes are of course getting a bit hard, but her
trill is there still. Ada Crossley sang that day. Really,
her voice seemed the only one that filled the hall—the
Albert, a huge place. Saw Marie Tempest in “ The Mar-
riage of Kitty.” She is my favorite actress in London—
ugbr as sin and as fascinating as the devil —not that I
ever saw the devil, but I’m sure I would like him
if I did. Have seen Mrs. Patrick Campbell only once, in
“ Maclean of Bairness ”—such a badly-written piece that
you couldn’t judge her. It was a shocking failure, and
ran only five nights. Fancy that, in London.
The home folk are not scarce in these parts. Carrie
Moore was still going well in “The Dairymaids” when
she had to take up her Manchester panto, engagement.
She was much the best woman in it—had a good part
and made a big hit. Saw Rose Musgrove, and had a yarn
with her. She was not much impressed with London. I
think she has gone to Paris. May Beatty and Nina
Osborne, ex-Pollardians and ex-Williamsonians both, and
chums aforetime, are engaged together in sketch on tour,
with a big engagement in Dublin for the panto.
Was rather surprised at the scarcity of good voices in
musical comedy here ; few of the front-rankers have any
particular voice, and the choruses compare unfavorably
with the Royal Comics. Neither is the staging any
strides ahead of Williamson’s. Moreover, the acting is
often of a tired, let-my-pretty-face-carry-me-thiough
order. It would never do in Australia. Hear J.C.W.
has taken “ See-see ” for Australia. Saw Edwardes’ pro-
duction-most gorgeous. One scene in red and green
was simply brilliant. Denise Orme, George Edwardes’
latest find, is too absurd for words—no good at all. All
the characters in “ See-see ” are Chinese—not real Chinese
with two baskets of vegetables slung from a bamboo, but
fanciful Chinese. About m,v funniest experience was
standing—sitting, rather, on a little camp-stool—outside
Covent Garden during the opera season, from four to six,
waiting forthe door to open. Never again !
A girl friend of mine, who is in Paris with her
mother, writes frankly confessing her delight at
being “spoken to” by the gallant Frenchmen when
she goes out without the maternal escort. “In
Sydney,” she writes, “no man looked at me.”
She is a nice-looking, round girl, with a wide,
silly smile, and bright-brown hair. “ I have been
followed for miles,” she tells in great glee, “by
such nice-looking, well-mannered men. One at a
time, of course. Every now and then I look
around verv artfully to see if he’s still there. If
I frown, he says. ‘ Ah, mechante ! ’ and seems so
sad. And when, at last, I. get tired and call a
vehicle to go back to our pension, he says some-
thing that means, 4 Ah, she’s not so nice as she
looks.’ ” Now all this is amazingly funny when
you know that, if that girl was followed about
here and addressed by a strange man, she would
be honestly indignant and give him in charge to
the long blue-clothed arm of the law.
A friend, writing from Kansas: “This is an
awfully widowed place. There are three relicts,
the eldest not quite 28, in one family I visit.”
As the writer is a bachelor I predict there will
soon be one relict the less in that family. Else
the Kansas widows are not as attractive as the
Sydney sort.
My Brisbane correspondent writes: —
The Governoress, just arrived from Gabbinbah in a
gauzy-blue gown and an aggressively business-like toque,
presided at a big meeting of women at the Town Hall on
Wednesday last, when the various working committees
for the coming Women’s Exhibition were sorted out. The
new and decidedly nervous he-secretary turned up half-
way through the proceedings, and was bustled into
harness with a promptitude that left him with nothing
but a stammer for the rest of the day. Loud applause
greeted her Ladyship’s announcement that she would back
up the NOrthcote gift of £lO with a like amount.
Said that Assher, of the Sydney Morning Herald, comes
up to Brisbane next month to take charge of the Philp
organ—The Waily Tale. .
Whatever be the truth or otherwise of the cry that
labor is scarce on the cane fields, there is no mistake about
the scarcity of it in the kitchen here just now. There
was never so vast a blank before. Cooky has evaporated j
Mary Ann is gone ; Biddy has fled from the scene. I am
going to buy a tent and camp out till affairs improve.
The Macdonald-Warner wedding last Wednesday, at
44 Yeronga,” proved a very quiet affair. Clara stood up
to be wed in the neat coat and skirt in which she later
departed for N.S.W. on honeymoon bent.
The European success of pretty Elaine Feez has proved
too much for her proud parents, who can no longer re-
main outside the halo shed by her skilful fingers. They
depart for Japan and Asia generally the first week in
April, and from there travel, via America, towards their
blessed damozel. .......
Another pretty Queenslander who has quitted these
shores for the Biggest City on Earth is Mrs. Harry
McNeill (Florence Waldon Taylor), who is travelling
London-wards, per Salamis. Mrs, McNeill was playing
lead with Meynell and Gunn’s second “Fatal Wedding’
co. all last year. She now intends to see what size of
precipice the heartless villain falls down in England, and
if George Edwardes can find a corner for her (as per pro-
mise) she may show the Fogites how we do it in Aus-
tralia. _ . . ~
Still the alliance epidemic rages. Captain Webb,
brother of the gloomy spouse of late Governor Chermside,
is to wed little nurse Walker, daughter of H. C. Walker,
of Carpentaria Downs. The second ease is that of D. G,
Stuart (Davy), who, having allowed some six years to pass
since the tragedy of his first marriage, is to wed
Milly Coutts, eldest daughter of the late Thomas Ooutts,
of “ Toolburra,” Warwick.
Yours Affectionately,
AEENEHI.


. ■ ■
<LOP
A
1.
■
'*>Vf •V*’ w |
11
.. • ■ ,
VA
It
DUNLOP HOSE
o' tK« B'tiT fpr 'iTATitf,
ITSf,, II not Kink ,
RM
’‘vA'v.
mmm
:wa a ■'
' : .:v
■J*
m
w- •. .
YOUR NEXT HAM 1
Buy the Q.M.E. Brand for a change
—any good grocer will supply you.
Equal to ANY brand of English
Ham —sweeter —more tender-
juicy—with a flavor that is
all their own. Make up
your mind to have the
best Ham your money
can buy and let it be
a Q. M.E. They
cost no more than
the ordinary
kind.
Q X MX E
HAMS and BACON.
Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
riADAnE MASSERAN, Corsetiere,
of Melbourne, begs to inform her
clients that she will be at the
HOTEL METROPOLE, SYDNEY,
From FRIDAY, 22nd MARCH, to THURSDAY,
4th APRIL, both days inclusive.
scnaiHV
ssaHd
Sag
KLEINERT'S DRESS SHIELDS combine the qualities
necessary for perfect Protection to any ga v ment* They
are as well known to the Modistes of f hlbourne and
Sydney as to those of Paris* London* or New York*
■- • 1 • • ’ 1 ■■ 'i i iiM——mr~TiTW~ r T—TT* 1 "
?S>-
o
#
VVI
1
o
&
OOrtETttlNC-
IN
*n»
«%*
7v.:
bjy
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 11, 1907.
My Dear Yabbie.—
. Recent scandals—there have been several—all
point to the one conclusion, that the affection that
publicly protests too much ends m bad language,
or bitter disillusionment, or, at best, clammy
disappointment. A bride-elect in the green
recollection of this scribe took to wearing a first
wife’s portrait in chest-medallion fashion, as a
mark of excessive propitiation to the widower.
Even her best friends thought she did protest too
violently. She did. The marriage broke up—
was smashed into small, unstickable fragments-
soon after. There’s only one affection to trost-
thekind that demonstrates nothing, lhen the
person of the brute sex knows where you are.
Also where he is. Expecting little, he is likely
to be agreeably surprised. _
Old Mrs. Leggatt, who died recently in Dayles-
ford (Vic.), worth, itis said, a quarter of a million,
kept the business-door of her little shop open to
the day of her death, though the shutters had not
been taken down from the windows since her hus-
band put them up the night he died 40 years ago.
The deceased ancient spent her old age sitting on
a horsehair chair in a tiny room back of her shop.
Still she was not a miser. She distributed
groceries, etc., freely to hard-up customers, and
contributed handsomely to religious, charitable
and social funds. In the matter of gossip she was
insatiable. She kept her shop open for the sake
of “ news ” and sent her two maids to church ser-
vices, concerts and theatrical performances, so that
when they came home they could tell her what
everyone did, said, and wore. Poor old girl! her
own share in the chat was rather tedious, tend-
ing chiefly to descriptions of her two visits to
Melbourne, when the Exhibition was opened, and
when the Duke arrived. Both times she engaged
•ooms at Menzies’, hired a carriage, ordered an
imposing costume, and cut a more impressive figure
than might have been expected of an old Scotch
body of frugal tastes. The lone widow never
ceased to lament that she had neither chick nor
child to leave her bawbees to, and to bewail tne
death of her adopted son.
Slowbart’s smartest preen their plumage in
readiness for the wedding of Miss Mary Leake
and Barrister Hudspeth, junior partner of ex-
Premier Neil Lewis. The bride-elect, whose
pink-cheeked, blue-eyed, auburn-haired comeli-
ness suggests an old Dutch picture, has some in-
dependent means, more expectations, and a
wealthy brother-in-law, who handed her a cheque
marked with three figures the minute she began
to talk trousseau. At Hobart Cathedral on April
3 the bride will make her first appearance in a
toilette modelled on one worn by a French
Empress. Other trousseau triumphs will probably
be aired in Melbourne, as part of the trial trip is
booked for Menzies’ Hotel.
Young doctors were in evidence at picturesque
Trinity Church (Kew, Melb.) t’other day the
attraction being the marriage of Dr. W. Blachley-
Turner and Miss Leila Nott. It’s a hard heart
that doesn’t warm to a young sawbones with his
enthusiasm for “cases” thick upon him. Ke-
member Mr. Pickwick’s pleasure when he came
down to breakfast and found Bob Sawyer and Ben
Allen demonstrating an operation by means of a
loaf and an oyster-knife !
Her Federal Ex. is leading the Exhibition of
Women’s Work in the way it should go, and the
promoters thus far are full of push. Society s
selectest have been looking for talent in all direc-
tions. The wisest among them are subsidising
the efforts of the brainy poor. You can t produce
a carved oak dinner-waggon for 4d., and only the
initiated know how many pounds worth ot
material go to the making of a first-class portiere.
Whilst the long-pursed few are giving orders, and
advancing money thereon with enterprising
prodigality, some of them are cent on
shining as exhibitors, in company with Queen
Alexandra and ever sd many Royal Highnesses.
Lady Talbot, Mrs. Edward Miller, Mrs. Clapp,
and Miss Carter can wield a needle with the best
of them. Mrs. Arthur Tuckett, Miss Ina Higgins
—a model secretary, incidentally and Miss
Godfrey are quite capable of winning any of the
horticultural prizes offering. Mrs. Franklin
Peterson can “oblige” with a cantata, or such
like, and Miss Mary Chomley has a nice feeling
for the paint-brush. ;
Some of thejcommittee marms of the Women s
Work Exhibition (which Melbourne will pre-
sently see) came before part of the executive
committee the other Wednesday to discuss the
question of catering. Janet Mrs. Clarke, dressed
in her youngest style, made various suggestions
which the intrepid chairwoman didn t hesitate to
squash. Another member, anxious to inform
everyone that she had been m Pans, suggested a
real French cafe, and thought it would be a good
idea to have light lunch served a la Francaise
“Say a little clear soup, with fish, entree and
sweets to follow, ending up with cheese, celery,
and dessert.” The voice of the mysterious chair-
woman here cried out, “ All for ninepence .
Some other enlightened member suggested de-
lightful meals, cooked entirely by privileged
State sehool children, who would take turns
in feeding the public. Finally, when a few
more ideas had been aired, and vain
'S«SitTiL/Mb^ijh,.
Wednesdat champ^
golfer and other desirable things, was converted
into the worse half of a connubial wtote,bemg
solemnly bound m matrimony to Miss CecU
Bruton, a small blonde sister °f Hele “";
Tt was a happy little function. Mienaei is
Anglican, Madam Cecilia is Roman ; so they com-
promised their baptismal scruples by towngMr.
Ritualist Perry perform the
St. James’. It was a temailciiWy ]«ve J-lo k
ins’ wedding collection. From the Baby, wno
played bridesmaid, to the officiating cleric, J
all looked young enough to need a mother s c
The Hon. Micky is a great-grandson of that L i
Eldon who separated the poet bhelley fr °P. *
first wife’s children. He is at present divided,
from papa’s title by three burly elder brothers,
who are all feeling quite well, thank you.
Lady Francis Winter died very suddenly last
week, in a private hospital, bhe was the eldest
sister of comic operatic Elsie Moore, and had been
a chorus pillar herself, before she married ,
ancient judge of Papua. Sir Francis s ill-health
often aroused sympathy for the potential widow.
Then she was hustled from health to her grave
within a few short days, leaving the elder y
invalid to grieve for her. Amongst her Thespian
chums, many will remember her for some helpful
act of self-sacrifice, or some graceful little offering
of sympathy or cash when they were most needed.
Which is an unusual record for a handsome
woman in Kammic Appera, as the Americans
The recently-returned mustered in force at
Flemington last week. The feminine section
fluttered successfully in imported frocks, and
capped each other’s experiences, while the mas-
culine element boomed away sonorously on
foreign parts. Quite a lot of genuine affection
was out on one or other of the race da-ys. Brides
were particularly numerous, in orthodox rigs.
Here and there a dashing young matron sported
one of the new French coats— funny little tabbed
affairs, desperately smart. The Western Dis-
tricters, down for the polo as well as the races,
brought down the average for the gorgeous gown.
Now and again the W.Ds. do the butterfly trick,
but it isn’t often. This time they affected, for
the most part, abbreviated skirts and a manly
stride. This, combined with a motor glare, gives
an Amazonian bearing, paralysing to the mere
Melbourneite.
The Cliveden party, first day of the races, was
supplemented by Mrs. Claude Macdonald m nut-
brown draperies of an ephemeral nature,
according not unworthily with the sheeny mauves
sported by her hostess. One of the successes was
a pale green striped dress, strapped with green
velvet —you’re both striped and strapped these
times if you’re anybody worth mentioning. Mrs.
Haminans made a re-appearance after many years
in cheerful pink raiment, bearing Mrs. Nicholas
Fitzgerald company. The marvel of the meeting
was a silk gown, crisp and crinkly, m an alluring
shade of green, veiled in the filmiest amber gauze,
trickilv embroidered in pink and gold, and glori-
fied still further with gold fringe.
The third daughter in a family famous for its
beauty is reported to have taken the law into her
own hands as regards a dainty little china aide.
She has announced from afar to her family herd
that, in spite of the fact that; she and he have
no more fortune than lies in their faces, they
intend to ultimately take one another for better
or worse. A beauty bridal minus money or
prospects savors at least of novelty in these
prosaic days. But there are, presumably, some
worldly-wise objections to be interposed, and_a
good many second thoughts which will presently
occur to the maid and the aide.
A frilly crowd gathered for the first perform-
ance Of “Mr. Hopkinson,” the current Wil-
loughby-Ward attraction. A big party came
under the wing of Mrs. Everard Browne (formerly
Miss Chirnside), ear-ringed and gowned in galah
colors—rose and gray. Said dame, ’tis said, still
wears the willow re postponement of the NOl th-
cote visit to her Colac mansion, owing to the
running-dry of tanks in this rainless summer.
Lawyer Croker, of the hour-glass figure, and
his lady, resplendent in mandarin, satin, took
charge of another group. Substantial feminine sup-
port played to the lead of Dr. Noyes and of Railway
Commissioner Tait. Latter cute Canadian, who
believes firmly in tact and social diplomacy,
strayed during the intervals to other important
contingents, to whom he described everything and
everybody as “offly nice.” Baronet Clarke was
in evidence escorting a charmer of Titian-red
tresses. In the box below, Mrs. Norman Menzies
(Dorothy Vane) glued her attention closely to the
play. On the stage, Grace Palotta did her duty
by a trio of satisfying frocks. The first, an old-
fashioned magenta, or what Herbert Spencer
would describe as “impure purple, shimmered
gauzily over white, and sought much creamy
white relief in the shape of chemisette, vest and
under-sleeves. Emerald green and timid fawn
were the respective tints of the following toilettes.
The merry little daughter of a popular St.
Kilda-road barrister is abandoning frolic and
taking up chemistry. She has a hope of eventually
being druggist to the Queen Victoria Hospital.
It would only be in the order of things. Ihe
Hospital employs no men. Doctors, nurses,
attendants are all women. By-the-bye, there is
one man ; he cleans the windows.
Hereby hangs an interesting puzzle. Every
other hospital list for probationer nurses is
crowded-yards long. The Queen Victoria Hos-
pital had till lately four entries only. A would-
be nurse had a disheartening struggle to get in at
several hospitals, and at last the rag and frayed
tail-end of a dejected hope led her to the Queen
Victoria Hospital. Joy ! The list held only the
four entries already mentioned, ihe wo act oe
nursewas youngand pretty. The matron explained
carefully that there were absolutely no men in 1 1
establishment (except the window-cleaner) but
the girl was undaunted in her desire for we
doing, and jumped cheerfully into the list.
Governor Talbottle went forth to the wilds last
week in a brave endeavor to strengthen the bonds
of Empire. He journeyed to Footscray ! His
reason for invading that stronghold of Sosh was
desire to visit the local State school. There the
bootless juveniles gave him a suitable welcome
rather subdued and chilly-and an M.P.,
aged 10, gave him a touching message for King
Ned, and expressed ungrammatical regret at the
imminent vice-regal departure for anotlier spliere.
His Ex. made a lengthy reply in supenah English,
which was interpreted to the perplexed horde by
deeply impressed teachers. Ihen he drove off in
his motah with a loud, lordly toot.
The departure of Prime Minister He akin and
his dame from Spencer-street, on their Bullward
journey, might have become a function had there
been sufficient time. But Alfred was detained at
a citizens’ banquet until the last moment, anc
was absolutely flurried. Such a motley farewell
group there was. Officialdom, the press, politi-
cians, bob-tag and ragtail, all bustling their urgent
way to shake the Ministerial paw and gabble a
few words of sincere good feeling to the depart-
ing pair. Both Mrs. Deakin and the eloquent
one were a little sorrowful—as all good patriots
should be when leaving these shores. His simple
exclamation, “God bless Australia,’ awakened
extra enthusiasm for him, and apparently touched
even the Foreign-traders present. Altogether,
the hurried business had quite a sentimental
flavor, and made one feel very fond of Alfred the
Affable.
Mr. John Turnbull received any number ot
congratulations on his Flemington success, the
other Saturday, for Ebullition’s owner ranks as a
real good sport. Genial and portly, and minus
an arm, he is easily distinguishable in the crowd.
With still many years between him and old age
it pulls one up with a round turn to be told that
when he was a six-year-old, so unusual was the use
of anaesthetics that he had his arm, injured'by a
fall, amputated without the kindly aid of c b loro '
form. He has large interests in Queensland, and
a country home among the hills at Gembrook,
where the quail come from.
Some people would “ celebrate anything. The
other day a crowd assembled at the Benevolent
Asylum to “celebrate” the jubilee of the admis-
sion of a patient who entered the institution a
blind girl of 19. Fancy anyone being glad that
an unfortunate Had lived for 50 years in a Benevo-
lent Asylum ! “ The patient was presented with
two cakes, beautifully decorated. Beautifuliy-
decorated buns to a poor, blind lady of off.
Marie Narelle in Paddy-green and Limerick
lace is so pharisaically Irish that a mere Aus-
tralian feels some diffidence in attending her con-
certs. Maybe this accounts to some extent for the
fact that her third recital, with its wealth of
Hibernian song, was poorly patronised. Arch-
bishop Carr and suite sat in the very front row,
and had rich, buttery blarney aimed at their
group by the grateful songstress in chief. An
Irishwoman puts much into a glance and more
into a word. The race of the “ dark Rosaline is
still fuli of robust vitality, showing itself m florid
gesticulation and eloquent phrase. By the time
Erin’s daughters develop aquiline noses and
thinnish, fine-cut lips, they will have shed the
ornate gush which' causes them to be variously
described as “bewitching” and “barbaric.’
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide :
Two lately-returned-from-Europe girl artists, Miss Rose
McPherson and Miss Bessie Davidson, will have exhibited
the results of their three years’ foreign study to the
Great and Exalted of South Aus. before this reaches the
baleful eye of the public. These enterprising-and clever
maidens have painted most of the countries of Europe
(literally—not with strong liquors, in the manner of the
bush metaphor) ; have spent some years under the chief
daubing* professors in Paris ; have been frequently hung
(not by the neck) in the Paris Salon ; and now, like pro-
perly constructed Australians, have returned to paint
their own country (not red). They bring back some 40
pictures, quite a number of which have already been
bought at good prices by affluent and art-loving Of
’Roo-landers in Paris they have much to say, and tell of
an Australian dub, comprising most of the marsupials in
that giddv centre. The chief aim and end of the club
seems to be to meet at stated intervals, consume victuals,
and tell each other what a nice country Australia is,
which is very beautiful and touching. From all accounts,
the largest Australian on the Parisian horizon is Rupert
Bunny, who is doing great things with his brush and a
tube or two of paint; and is, as yet, the only Australian
Associate of the Paris Salon.
Adelaide has caught another Society engagement to
vary the monotony of talking about the weather and the
trams. Conspirators in this case are Miss Jo Barr Smith
and Mr. James Goss. ,
Mrs. Josiah Symon is shedding much practical interest
on the local exhibition of women’s work, which is to be a
kind of small god-child of the Melbourne affair. Among
other thoughtful acts, she offers prizes for bobk-binding ;
for the best labor-saving appliance, such as a mechanical
window-cleaner or automatic and lifeless dish-washer ;
and for the best sketch design of a kitchen, laundry and
dairy—the kitchen and lffundry to be fitted up for a
household of twelve persons, the dairy to accommodate
six to ten cows (which will not, however, sleep on the
premises, I imagine). The figures indicate that Mrs.
Symon is one of those who haven’t lost faith in either the
human or the cow birth-rate. And the world clamors for
an automatic dish-washer just as much as it does for a
mechanical overdraft.
No less than 32 South Australians went away to spread
themselves about the globe per the Marmora last week.
This sudden enthusiasm for travel is partly due to the
fact that the Marmora will pick up the Connaught
royalties at Colombo. The suite of royal cabins is of the
most intense nature, and everything, from four-poster
beds to a piano, is included. The royal persons, how-
ever, are to dine with the ordinary passengers. Think
of that and consider the rush to be ordinary, and to sit
next the potentates. Some of the South Australians
about to riiix with monarchs and promenade with princes
are Mr. and Mrs. W. G. Coombs, Miss Cudmore, and
Miss Owen Smyth.
Miss Martha Briiggemann, the Adelaide maiden who
gathers all the singing honors in this State and has her
audience falling on her neck and kissing: the hem of her
garment when she graces a performance, has been
engaged to sing the principal soprano in Spohrs
“ Calvary,” at Melbourne Town Hall, on Good I nday..
In spite of the fact that she is by far the best sep'an®
this steepled town has yet produced, Adelaide, which has
a' bad habit of sending much mediocre talent laurel-
hunting in Europe, has not troubled to send her away
and give her a chance of greeting Melba on the giddy
heights of fame.
Yours affectionately,
JOANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/- Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London,
state wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, Prance
mm:
<3-0 TO ECELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Hag€Q, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Pries Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss
gfd
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 167-
Double, 20/-
is the acmeof comfort, made ol
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure vrithout
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINT
Ninety-five youngsters jammed into a room
30ft. by 18ft. 1 That is the latest report from the
shockingly inadequate country schools in Vic-
toria.
Judkins got a bad blow when Bent
refused him the Government nomination for
Anstey. The Judders
have angled hard for the Government brand, but
Jsent has been too long at the game to give it.
. Bri tain has to be very careful of the feel-
ings of the Asiatics since the Monkey alliance
.London Tuies warns the Commons: “What
will indm thmk if womanhood suffrage is
granted, and the control of the Empire passes
over to women ?”
„ Ad elaide’’ : . Acce Pt a loud protest
against South Africa being spoken of as “S.A.”
(as mB. 21/2/07). The letters are used by the
British press for South America, South Africa,
and even Salvation Army ; but surely in an Aus-
tralian paper the Central State has first and only
claim to them.
, N.S. W. has dug up an antiquated candi-
fbnt W -, Sc °j tFell — who . u r g es at this late hour
that we should have unpaid members of Parlia-
ment. Yet if Mr. Scott Pell were told that the
real crying need of the State is not unpaid
members, but unpaid shipping agents, he would
probably be a picture of astonishment, and the
fact would be quite fresh and new to him.
California (U.S.A.), according to cable,
l a l P U S u d a lia 1 i aw J “ J virtua lly Prohibiting” aliens
lrom holding landed property within the State.
Jhe measure principally aims at, and hits
hardest, the local Japanese; but Japan isn’t
going to make trouble. Which is very kind, con-
sidermg that Japan rigidly enforces a similar law.
waddy flattenln £ dle Monkey’s tail with his own
Governor Macgregor and Captain Barton
worked from opposite poles while bossing Papua.
-Barton was averse to white immigration : Mac-
gregor objected to black emigration. A great
effort was made on several occasions to shift
Macgregor because he declined to accommodate
Worth Queenslanders with black labor. But he
had more authority and influence than Barton,
and the efforts failed.
DEAD WEIGHT.
EXTREME TORY : “ Yes, Deakin and Watson have
apparently for the time got the public favor,
but, in spite of this, I venture to say that
Reid carries most weight .”
The N.S.W. Government proposes to
employ a number of “truant inspectors ” to scan
the streets and compel children to attend school.
The salary (£2OO a year) of these officials is a
nasty knock to school teachers. The salary of the
most accomplished third-class teacher is £l6B a
year ; and there are hundreds who work for less
It seems topsy-turrma l —£2oo a year for driving
children to school, £l6B for teaching them when
they get there.
The Sydney morning papers are very
an^ 1 °* l if r Waddell to coalesce with Carruthers;
anCl rea ”y seems no reason why not. It
was Waddell who put Carruthers into power by
needlessly chucking up the sponge after John See
and Owe Sullivan had practically ruined the
chances of the party ; and people generally under-
stood then that there would be a coalition No
difference of principle, or want of principle
separates the two. Why shouldn’t they unite ?
•K or the matter of that, why shouldn’t the Labor
party, too, join the coalition? There doesn’t
seem enough difference among the three parties
to make a row about. y
The Australian Government has come to a
qu Se {® n ®f u | 10n ■ to dissociate the two questions (1)
S i m Vi I ServantS pay *^ tate income
tax and (2) Should Australia be allowed to inter-
ronrM S %"' n 9°* a tatotian through its own High
Uourt ! Special legislation will make the Federal
V ant hable to all fair State taxation, and
en the big question can be fought on its merits.
lhe Government of Papua has been tem-
porarily settled on lines which The Bulletin has
f °' r the kst tW ° years ‘ The
hppf 1 3S ,f Vept ? way ’ and the destiny of
/nu- ,T® S s lon wdl now be controlled by Murray
(Chief Justice and Governor) and Staniforth Smith
(having charge of all development work such as
planting and mining). It will no longer be a
mortal sin now in Papua to be an Australian.
And e rs°n,the Sydney man who imported
Sl u Hatter ?’ and hhed the land with
finlnVv, 1 and advt - because he wouldn’t
FuhTJ f necessary application, has left for
WiflLm Se ? re ~m oie hatters. Therefore,
T> t - ; e T S . t< ? ad ™ J t that the Immigration
hattlr Ct dO6Sn t P revent any reasonable
former POr a lflg necessar y ]a bor, and that his
tormer proceedings were only Stinking Fish.
Talk of building torpedo boats in Aus-
mooluf 11 th A? 3 i a a , teel industry here is mostly
too-et-he & the best, it wili mean nailing
together locally the imported parts. Of
better that than nothing, but there is no real diffi-
rcalJJ ® J '°j al | ! ? wine ’ andhavingthe boats
tra]ifn b frnm iI AU f ralla l havnlg them all Aus-
rnnll ef f • “ th ® lu “P of ore and the uncouth
“ aas ? f PJg-won to the finished vessel of 30-knot
Coipuci ty.
. Sllades of Cobden ! This is from the lead-
ing columns of Sydney Herald (25/2/’O7)
w u® B^ 6 * 1 as a maxim among men of
mmerce that hig-h prices spell prosperity This is
in f country hkt A e ® pe f. iall £ °P in this direction
products for export" * large SU ‘ plus ° f
d T o b cS S oToCp y o S Menand the e,ori “ ot the
Vic election nominations show 74 declared
US-! ? ent ’ S mosa, ' c (snaall m, please)
Ministry, 35 Labor men, and seven who are diffi-
lvi f chances are that just about
half the Labor candidates will get in, and the Bent-
Peacock Administration will start off with a huge
majority of nearly three to one. This is the position
that Labor has brought itself to in Yic. by its double
with v Sa L Va^ ly t the Liberalism
second'S 1 t 1 V h ° Uld haV , e been allied J a nd,
noHHn. M Cl,ngl - , t 0 most disreputable
unwieldv fSi enCeS ln the ytate ‘ T he Ministry’s
fiT ! dy f(dlow mg is a queer mixture. Pick a
wli Xam P, eS fr ? m m a hat—tuft-hunter Harry
ihfiL d °fV- StU ? 1 CO J ed Tory Frank Madden, and a
K v! tinselled folly like Norman Bayles will
®.'t beside such Democrats as Jack Murray, R. F.
Lawson 61 "’ >on ‘* dd Mackinnon, and H. S. W.
’ to the Melbourne
Continuation Schools (B. 21/2/’O7). As soon a,s
those eminently successful Socialistic
institutions were proposed, Bleeds
-c itchett and a few more persons, who
er ® dewing profits out of the
Methodist Ladies’ College and the
• 68 College and the like, inter-
viewed Tommy Bent with great snort,
and threatened to raise Abel’s brother
and the devil generally if the Govern-
ment attempted to interfere with their
private enterprises. They didn’t be-
lieve in the low working-people being
encouraged to educate their cons and
daughters up to the standard reached
by to se * ect few who were able to
pay Bleedy and be educated on the
sectarian racket. Bent was not very
much impressed and yawned so as to
show his back tooth. The wise pro-
ceeding would then have been for the
sectarian school people to have waded
in tor all they were worth, and put the
btate Continuation Schools to shame at
the exams., but perhaps Fitchett and
co. were too busy giving good advice
to the empire. Anyhow, on results,
the Government schools make a holv
show of Private Enterprise.
The chief feature of N.S.W.’s
just-established Local Government
system is the determination of the
landowner to keep down rates. Clyde
shire, for example, on a Id. in the £
rate, expects to collect £613 from the
taxpayers. Against this the salaries of
the officers will amount to £622, and the
othce expenses have to be added to
swell the debit balance. So the work per-
formed in the shire during the year will be paid
for entirely out of the Government subsid y. And
there are other cases quite as bad. The land-
owner seems to be the same wherever you meet
him—a shirker and a cadger. J
The condensed history of Victoria, related
by Thomas Bent at Cheltenham
What happened here in the old days? People secured
land for igl per acre—and that really meant 12s 7<!
they had 20 years to pay it in-and Ten fornmd a’rafl
way league that pointed out that a line was necessarv
The members would then charge the Government about
EKTSS we°used
mone e y’fo a r n the h railways aVe b ° rr ° Wed over 40 "dllions of
Last week the S M. Herald made the
th^iv ar t-h ema m : th? i t the Q ue stion of taking over
the Northern Territory ought to be treated in “a
broader and more rational spirit.” That was its
contribution to the opening up Aus
tralia’s Lost Province, But-thank Heaven LAt
managed to avoid saying that Mr. Johnson was
fhp an p * h u fc he would doubtless fix up
the territory all right. It was the first time for
Johnson gl h the Hekald didn’t ring in
A WeUington (M.L.) suburban laundry,
D white folks, had its manageress fined
the other day, for locking up the premises and
keeping the girls hard at it after hours." The
factory inspector, who ultimately broke in
alleged that when a girl fainted from overwork
she was carried into outer coolness and watched
1 u h ° Wed I 1?" 8 of animation. Then
she would be carried back, an iron pushed into
her hand, and some more collars burnished be-
fore the next faint happened. Many of the girls
have indignantly asserted that they never worked
more than 15 hours a day.
“O, WOODMAN, SPARE THAT TREE.”
“A Bill will be to Parliament dealing
with these Western districts separately. Under the Bill
stand or fall, we will have the land at a fair price If
not, we will take it and pay them according to law, which
I consider is a fair thing."
“ Oh, Tummy, Tummy! ’Aren't I been a good
muther to yer? ’Aren’t I stuck to yer?
Surely y' won't destroy this little blossom
that I’ve loved and lived for all me life ? "
The indecent hate with which the Foreffin-
rade press has pursued the promoters of the
Australian mail line should open the eyes of the
Commonwealth to the disloyalty of those rags.
Allowing .he worst-that the Australian mail con-
niW° r v, • ai ’ e member . s of a rin & which opposes the
other shipping ring bossed by the P. and O. black-
mo they f re P la 'y in g Australia’s
game. -But the ireetrade newspapers yelp at
them as if they were public enemies.
The wail of a railway official in Sydney
Telegraph J J
Ia3 e the sca P e B'oats for the man on the
land. Let there come a bad season or two and
the Department says, “ We cannot grant your increases-
the revenue is not buoyant enough ; we must assisl th*
farmer with free carriage of fodde?, live stock “ We
vpara" 0 n \ one y spare for you.” Then come a few fat
years, and again the same cry : “No money to spare •
” V6 f to ?i duce the freights on produce, lowe? the
fares, etc. We cannot burn the candle at both ends so
the poor officials suffer again—that is, the lower-paid ones?
The Victorian elections present some
unusual features. No less than 19 members-17
Bentites and two Labor men—were returned un-
opposed. For the other constituencies there
are no less than 41 in which it is a two-man scrap.
Richmond and Ballarat West have three candi-
dates each; and Waranga and Barwon four each.
Among the lot is Judkins, who calls himself a
journalist—not a literary pirate or a scissors-and-
paste fellow and one Robertson, “Evangelist.”
The most “ sporting ” election contests on
Australian record were the struggles between
James Service and Robert Stirling Anderson in
Melbourne s earlier days. Anderson, father of
the present R. 0. Anderson (ex-president of the
Vic. Chamber of Commerce
and the Melbourne Stock
Exchange), was a sworn
friend of “Jimmy” Service
all the time they were poli-
tical rivals. The Emerald
Hill electorate was their
periodical bone of conten-
tion, and they always had a
wager on the result—the
loser to shout a dinner for
both candidates and their
respective election commit-
tees. Service made six or
seven attempts to win the
bet, but Anderson was in-
variably elected. Eventually
Service wooed the East Mel-
bourne constituency, and
won it. When at last he
achieved the Service-Berry Ministry, he brought
MWkSctaSu “ d versary, Anderson, „s
. Victorian Farmers’ League is an out-
size in frauds; but it managed to stumble close
up against the truth the other day, when it
announced as follows :
fpi^np« e fnr b t£ al 18 he Who . °PP° ses Government inter-
ference for the purpose of conferring special benefits
upon a section of the community.
In other words, the true Liberal is the man who
opposes the farmer’s cadge for free wheat, and
specially low freights, and free wire netting and
free roads, and special subsidies to make his cul-
vert. But what does the Farmers’ League want
to advertise its enemy as the “ true Liberal ” for?
resolution carried by the executive of
the Immigration League against the introduction
of Jiussian Jews to the Northern Territory, voices
the general objection to the planting of isolated
foreign communities in Australia. When the
teuton gold-digger Holtermann was a member of
i i j Semby ’ be m oved that a tract of land
should be set apart for German colonists, but the
motion was rejected. There was no objection to
good white foreigners, so long as they percolated
through the ordinary immigration channels : but
the feeling was rightly against anything like the
transplanting of a province from a foreign country.
' “ R - B - Thorburn” writes from a Cali-
fornian town : •
There is a fuel-famine in California just now because
somebody has “ cornered ” the coal, and Private Enter-
prise, in the form of a railway company, ensures its rp-
maining- at sky-rocket prices by bringing in supplies with
judicious slowness. In an unusually severe winter this
is sufficiently trying. Lately relief appeared in the dis-
tance in the form of some Australian vessels which were
reported to be bringing over a supply of Australian fuel.
Now, according to the local newspapers (so miscalled),
the Australian Government has commandeered the
coal and brdered the ships to return to Australia.” Pre-
sumably Private Enterprise bought up these shiploads of
coal, and then circulated that staggering lie to cover
its tracks.
. E - , Coe > writing from San Francisco
W the last number of London TW
Opinion Says he will not be angry
journal for taking the wrong viewfnre22
to the Japs, because he is convinced ?W
the outside world has been in blank ing
ance of the truth. The Jans in tVJ^
? I’ancisco schools are mostly grown men 0
learning beside the white children Thh
is not thought good for the girls Morditv
imposes caution. As a somewhat less im
portant matter, yet serious, the Japs brought
" unknown disease of the eyj
calmht L roch ° m V nd sorTU ‘ white children
caught it. San Franciscans are unanimous
on the necessity for divided schools No
t W o h this Par^° P T PoSesit - Give due weight
to this. The Jap men, all wanting to go to
echoo l if they can, have been pouring in
at the rate of a thousand per week. They
the HttL ta wf , s ? ho °l P rizes away from
seWi* W - nte klddies . ! The special Jap
the others! m 6Very P ° lnt aS Wdl taught a *
The honorary J.P. i s no t only a
mulish animal in fact, but that is all the
law which he mangles expects of him in
theory. Thus : “It is not actionable to
say of a Justice of the Peace that he hath
no law for a knowledge of the law is not
required of him in his office.” (Pollock
on Torts.) Again: “An action of slander
win not he against one who uses words
which impute to a Justice of the Peace
general unfitness for the office, for his is an
honorary office, and the law does not look to
1809 S^ ld the Judges of Xing’s Bench in
18J2 (Alexander v. Jenkins). But, if the J P
doesn t need to know any law, nor have any
fatness at all, what in thunder are his qualifies-
tions ?
That oppressively conscientious and upright
politician, N.S.W. Minister for Lands Ashton,
now announces that his retirement from politics
will be “only temporary.” It seems that the
good young man will vanish until the last whiff
of the Lands scandals is dissipated, then come
back. A stronger man would stay and clean up.
But Ashton has lost his reputation for strength,
if he had come out boldly a year ago and con-
fessed all about his own land agency transactions
(which Phk Bulletin believes were quite honest,
so far as political land agency can be), and
announced a resolution to deal stringently with
those agents who were not honest, he would be in a
strong position to-day. As it is, his reputation is
in the same boat with that of the Carruthers
Ministry, and it is a very leaky boat.
“ 0.” writes :
“ Caber ” (B. 7/3/’O3) alleges that enough importance is
not attached to Denham’s defection from the Kidston
(Queensland) Government. First place, Denham didn’t
defect or “ scurry ” or do anything half so dignifieds-he
simply got fired out like an office bov found tampering
wfah the office stamps. It would be impossible to attach
sufficient importance to Denham’s departure—it has no
importance. When the great combined meeting between
the Denhamites and the Philpites took place, t’other day,
Denham attended with a mighty rallv of three, one of
whom has since returned to Kidston." Denham has all
alongbeen an over-rated produce merchant, and Kidston
had the luck of the campaign in getting rid of him in
j■ o■ Philp’s followers—-including Leahy— are kicking
themselves in places hitherto undiscovered, because their
leader has had anything to do with Denham, and they
know their man, whereas Philp—who is a monumental
ass at alliances—doesn’t.
The chickens are coming home to roost.
Says the Penang (Straits Settlements) Gazette :
Nobody in Britain or the British colonies desires to see
Japan deprived of the fruits of her victories; but she is
Britain’s ally, and her cruel and unjust treatment of the
Koreans reflects to a certain extent upon Britain.
STRICTLY TIED UP.
D EAKIN: "Now, I think I've left everything safe
until I come hack.”
Hobart City Council and Government are
in conflict. Within cat-jump of the G.P.O. is
Tasmania’s chief factory for the making of soap
and candles, and the odor arising therefrom is
what the smell of Lebanon would be if Lebanon
were mostly decayed rabbit. No one ever thought
of complaining—it was accepted, like Jack Evans,
as a necessary evil. But a few months ago Metz,
a Labor member in' the local Legislature, applied
for leave to start another odor factory on a piece
of ground not 50yds. from the old-established
sniff. The Council said “ No.” Metz erected a
plant and got to business. The matter was taken
into Court, and an interim injunction obtained
ordering him to close down. Metz then placed
his fat-rendering appliances on trollies, and made
a procession through the city, with banners bear-
ing the words: “You won’t let us work; must
we starve?” “ Why Tasmania’s sons are forced
to leave their native land,” and so on. The
Government was so moved that it decided to pro-
claim the locality in question a noxious trades
area—almost inside the city. Now the Council
talks of section something of the Health Act.


THE CALLAGHAN
OUR
ECONOMY”
BOOT.
NOTED
FOR
LONG
WEAR.
af
FOR MEN
17/6
POST
FREE
and
DUTY
FREE
All
Over
the
Commonwealth.
THE CALLAGHAN French
Calf Lace Boot, in pointed,
medium, and square toes.
A really Strong, Serviceable] | (fa
Boot for City or Country Wear/ I \jf\J
A Pair sent Post and Duty Free to any |
address in the Commonwealth upon receipt of M. 4 / V-J
When ordering, please enclose P.O. or Postal Note.
WE SATISFY EVERY CUSTOMER OR WE RETURN MONEY.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
MALTHO
D
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not." — Marcus Aurelius.
IN BUILDING A HOUSE there is nothing more important and
deserving of quiet, thoughtful deliberation than the roof.
No doubt everyone should, when building, STRIVE IO
BEST. There are people who still use iron, slates, and shmg e , ,
then, they are unacquainted with the fact that
MALTHOID IS THE BEST,
BOOKLET, giving full information, POST FREE.
Refiners and Sole
_ Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. HOLDSWORTH, MacPHERSON & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Government mßmt Notice.
FARM LABOURERS.
THE INTELLIGENCE DEPARTMENT
WILL BE GLAD TO HEAR FROM
YV LJUU DXU UDAD XV/ ~
FARMERS WHO HAVE VACANCIES
FOR FARM HANDS.
Full particulars should be given as to whether experienced hands *”kl7from’ the* ag'ric “■
to wages offered. A large number of capable men are reaching New *™thJales weekly ™
tural districts of Great Britain. H. 0. L. ANDERSOJN, Director | Brid stre ets, Sydney.
fgdh
HIGH LIFE!
when you know they only cost 17s. 6d. a box of •
Those who smoke them agree that they are the best
cigars sold at the price.
SAMPLE BOX OF 4,1/- POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
•e*
i
< i« —>»'
IT
ER
2ft
MA/y
PA wATtR)
Stw plat 3PRWio
////A
A-'
UHb
i_and:>
1
The MODERN
HOSTESS. #
44 1 give you 4 KOOMAH
SPA ’! Drink it. In your
whisky, in your wine, or
with milk it is delicious.
It sparkles like liquid
diamonds. It has three
great points:
1. It's name is Koomah.
2. It is Australia's natural
mineral water.
3. It is sold by the oldest
Australian Mineral
Water firm,
E. Rowlands,
MELBOURNE,
SYDNEY,
KATOOMBA,
BALLARAT."
AT LAST !!
Standard Typewriter at a
Reasonable Price.
•. * : • ’ i *.•».;
Ball Bearing Carriage,
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard,
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Man Holder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
ether High-Grade Machine.
"
■
m.
mm
• s
Hi
*S
m
K*
THE
BRITON
Our ,l Direot Drlwa” Jointless Type Bar (TYPE)
(KEY)
fs an exclusive patent and saves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any the postman carries.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week without an instructor.
Write To-day
for particulars of our Free Trial
offer. All our literature is Tree.
Southern Sales Coy
6 DALLEY STREET. SIfDNEY.
And a* 7 GREY ST., WELL! NUT ON. N.Z


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Cup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “ Australian Blue Rib-
and,” First in Class A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
: *
Sole Importers:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
Lance Skutborp, the greatest horseman the
world has ever seen, the champion Australian buck-jump
rider, is now touring the western parts of Queensland,
making for New South Wales, expecting to open in
Sydney at Easter. His show consists of 150 animals, all
buck jumpers of the highest class, amongst them being
the two greatest buck-jumpers that were ever created,
Frisco and Sni[>s. Both these horses can be backed to
throw any man in the world out of the best saddles they
can produce.*
WORMS
Their Symptoms and Cure.
Every child sufferers more or less from in-
testinal worms. Indeed many adults are troubled
with this complaint, but fail to realise the fact.
The symptoms of this trouble are various, but
are usually very pronounced. Constant irritation
of the nostrils and the biting of the finger nails
are sure signs of the presence of worms. In-
variably the sleep is greatly disturbed with grind-
ing of the teeth, and an excessive'flow of saliva.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are a
sure death to worms and a perfectly safe remedy
for children and adults.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or from
The W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Price Is. 6d. per box (six boxes, Bs.).
RABBIT
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT
m
ALE & LASER
E, RESOB, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-Gener&L
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERQILL & CO., IQ Mouatt Bt, Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices!
DOWLING ST„ REDFERN, STDNET,
SPORTING
NOTION
The Australian Cup, always better sport for
onlookers than the more crowded Melbourne Cup race
(where the horses start at the far end of the straight),
was this year a specially interesting- struggle. Half a
mile from home eight of them were still “ in it,” and tin-
names of six were shouted in turn as they made for the
winning post. With the heavy going in their favor the
lighter weights shared the finish amongst them, and the
veterans Realm and Mira, as predicted by The Bulletin,
had the best of it from the distance. At that
critical point 3-year-old Booran was still in front,
after having made most of the running from
the start. Then Realm came along vigorously
and won from Booran, whilst Mira, with considerable
ground to make up, put in a belated rush, which landed
her only half a length behind the 3-year-old. The great
surprise of the race was in the order of procedure. Realm
had been expected to play a leading part in the early
stages, but the ex-hurdler was never more forward than
fifth place until the final trouble began. Judiciously
ridden, Realm had the stamina, and just enough pace
under his light weight, to outstay everything- bar Mira,
whose effort was too long delayed. The time—4.BJ—was
not bad, considering the sodden state of the track.
The excellent performance of Booran in pacing-
the Australian Cup field for two miles and battling on
when collared, was another testimony to the merit of
Poseidon. After winning Caulfield Guineas, the con-
sistent Booran ran third to the champion in'the Caulfield
Cup, and third again in the Derby. His close second in
the Australian Cup proves him to be a really good bit of
stuff, without altering the fact that Poseidon is nearly
two stone better, with Antonious as a half-way horse
between them. Unfortunately Antonious ricked his
shoulder*When running in the Essendon Stakes t’other
Saturday, and was scratched for the Australian Cup.
Handicapped to give 161 b. to Booran, he should have
made a big bid for the long race.
There are sprinters and sprinters. Istria, on
rdf her showing ill public, had been reasonably reckoned
£. “ squib,” not quite capable of staying six furlongs,
until she won the Bourke Handicap over seven furlongs.
It now appears that the pretty little mare is merely un-
equal to the strain of doing the Newmarket Handicap
(listance in 1.15, or thereabouts. Given a somewhat
longer race, when heavy going reduces the speed of the
field, Istria is a stayer among sprinters, like Step Out,
who won the Bourke Handicap last year when Istria
finished close up. Both of them are comparatively better
over seven furlongs, with a turn in the course, than over
a straight six furlongs or a mile, The intensity of the
pace strain is relieved by the rounding of a corner.
*. * *
The second Saturday of the V.R.C. Autumn
Meeting, when the attendance in the reserves was small
for so large an occasion, provided a burst of astonish-
ment. Poseidon got decisively beaten in the Champion
Stakes by Dividend, who won the same race in 1905. The
reason for the astonishment lay not so much in
Poseidon’s failure as in Dividend’s remarkable “ reversal
of form.” In the Australian Cup the tall black
borse ran badly, whilst Booran was performing
really well. Two days later, in the Loch Plate (2 miles),
Che apparently invincible Poseidon beat Dividend by
three lengths with apparent ease. Therefore, when
Poseidon, on Saturday, metthelblack on 31b. better terms
than before, and Booran was at a disadvantage of only
51b. as compared with their Australian Cup handicap, it
deemed fair to expect both the 3 year-olds to beat
Dividend again. But in the Champion race Booran
never got near to Dividend, who ultimately made short
work of Poseidon.
Granting that the favorite was ridden a rather
cut-throat race in competition with Proceeder before
Dividend came along and challenged him, the question of
.ioekeyship cannot be raised in excuse for the whole of
Poseidon’s defeat. Injudicious riding may have accounted
for the colt’s inability to make a better struggle against
Dividend, but it didn’t explain the completeness of his
failurje. There are three explanations open to backers,
who, having lost their money,-can take their choice.
First hypothesis—Poseidon is not the exceptionally
brilliant 3-year-old his performances had made him out to
be. The opposition in the Derbies and Cups may have
been below the average strength. Second hypothesis—
Poseidon is not nearly as good at three miles as at two
miles. Third—The colt, although obviously in excellent
health and temper, had not" been made fit enough
to run a severe three miles against a seasoned stayer like
Dividend, who happened to be in splendid condition.
This last hypothesis may be properly tested at the
Sydney Cup meetiHg next month. After their race in the
Loch Plate it was remarked that Poseidon appeared to
be “all out," whereas Dividend was quite fresh; but,
then the 3-year-old has a sweating habit, which mis-
leads public opinion as to his fitness. Only one thing is
certain—Dividend achieved a wonderful “ reversal of
form” in winning the Champion Stakes so brilliantly on
his merits as a stayer, after performing so poorly in' the
Australian Cup (2J miles) and the Loch Plate (two miles),
the distances in those cases being sufficient tests of
Stamina.
■ * *
The latest rumor of a “ jockey ring ’’ alleges a
modus operandi which, at a first glance, looks very
Clever, but which could not be long continued to the
satisfaction of all parties. It is said that the boys who
form the “ ring ” are sworn to take their orders from a
schemer who never appears on the racecourse. Each boy
gets the word of instruction, and none of those who are
told “No ” are able to say which one has been told
“Yes.” Being in the dark as to which of them is
“going,” they can’t influence the betting market by
giving the swindle aw-ay. The man behind the scenes
wins all the money from the books, and the conspiring
jockeys get- their reward from him on the following
Monday. A very satisfactory arrangement when the
selected horse wins. But every time it gets beaten by a
“non-unionist” (and these accidents happen frequently
in horse-racing) the uhionists are bound to think they
might have done better for themselves by conniving
together in the sweet old simple way, or by going straight
in the interests of the owner, instead of acting as cats-
paws fora monkey who gives them no chance to put even
their best pal or Lest barmaid on a “ blessed cert.”
* » * *
A by-product of the N.S.W. anti-Gambling
Aot is the stoppage of trotting matches at agricultural
shows. Attorney-General Wade, whose Act it is, was
tfaite sure that it wouldn’t abolish trotting matches. But
it has. Mr. Wade doesn’t know about a lot of things
besides the conviction of land-jobbers. Since the
trotting-horse is a far more valuable animal industrially
than the galloping horse, and since the show trotting
match tended somewhat to encourage his breeding, the
Act works badly in this case. On the other hand, it has
boomed horse-racing, particularly at small meetings.
That was another thing it wasn’t supposed to do.
* * * *
Cyclist Frank Birtles summarised his experi-
ences as hideous, and they were. He was staggering
along the border-line of insanity quite a long time. After
struggling over 120 miles, he failed to lind any water,
and realised that his only chance of life lay in "getting
back quickly. The second day of his retirement his
water supply gave out, and his bruised and lacerated
legs began to swell, and his head to reel from the effects
of some poisonou, insect bite. He pushed his bike, which
weighed 1201 b., over burning sand and through spinifex,
the sand sometimes rising to the hub of the wheel. As
the hopeless, dreary day drew to a sweltering close he
began to see water all around him, and coidd hear it
foaming and rippling past the track. The inclination to
leave the bike, take off his clothes and go for a swim be-
came desperate, but he clung to the machine and
struggled on with his eyes closed, so that he should
not see the imaginary liquid. Around the dried-
up waterholes lay dead rabbits and dingoes, and
when he did reach one soak it was full of dead rabbits,
and to drink from it was impossible. His last chance
was a soak CO miles away, 40 miles outside Kurnalpi,
and for this he headed. And always across the imaginary
water that rippled round him he saw a skulking dingo,
which followed him the whole 60 miles to the soak out-
side Kurnalpi. The soak yielded a couple of quarts, and
the exhausted adventurer rested beside it for a day.
Then he Secured another couple of quarts cf the precious
liquid, which kept him going till he reached Kurnalpi.
Birtles ought to have had enough of transcontinental
cycling, but he has announced that he will now come
along the coastal route via Fraser’s Kange, Eucla and
Port Augusta.
The record for the run from Perth to Sydney,
vid the coastal route, is held by Donald Mac Kay, who in
1900 traversed it in 40 days hours. Two Westralians
are now trying to break this record, having left Perth on
path-racing machines shod with light Dunlop road-
racing tyres. There is nothing dangerous about this
trip, but the attempt to do it on path-racing machines
and light tyres is calculated to give the riders a most
unholy time.
* * "Sfe" * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen is astir to com-
plete arrangements for a visit of Major Taylor, Law-
son, McFarland, and other cracks to Australia next
season. But unless the Australian cycling promoters
raise the appearance money (now fixed at £6 ss. per
racing day) there is little possibility of a visit from the
Yank pie-biters.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Association held its sixth
night’s carnival, at Sydney Sports Ground, to a crowd
that would barely pay for the light, although the weather
w-as ideal. It is only the interest in the motor-bike
events that draws the public at all. In the Star Motor
Handicap five machines came out, but the start was very
bad, Jarman being left standing still. It was a mile-and-
a-half affair, and the feature of the race was the way
N. Saunders opened out over the last quarter mile. At
the bell Robinson had a lead of about 50yds., but Saunders
roared up alongside half a lap from home and beat
him easily, while Robinson had a wild cat fight to
win second place from Pow'ell. In the Motor Handi-
cap Saunders whizzed right away from the other back
markers in a marvellous fashion, and set to work to cut
dow’n the long distancers. It was a great sight, and he
took all sorts of risks. Somehow' this writer has an idea
that Saunders wall come to a glorious and sensational
finish, after which the audience will carry away bits of
his machine as mementoes of the most reckless motor-
bikist ever seen on a Sydney track. He beat the field
easily again, winning from Powell by 30yds. with
Doherty third. »
* * * *
A recent telegraph summary of the Ormond-
■ Daytona beach (U.S.A.) speed carnival announced that
the Stanley steam-car, which broke the world’s record
last year, did nothing this meeting. As a matter of fact,
that same Stanley car supplied the sensation of the
meeting. Stormy seas had ploughed up the beach.
Harriot-was trying to break his own record, and was
said to be travelling at the rate of 125 miles an hour when
the car struck an inequality in the sand—a hillock, or a
bit of wreckage, or a drowmed captain’s certificate, or
something, It sprang yards into the air, crashed down,
and rebounded and somersaulted several times, and the
boiler broke loose and rolled right away from the car.
As for Marriot, he was-sent ploughing through the sand,
and, when picked up, was unconscious. It was the great
driver’s last race, for, in addition to shock, a broken rib,
and contusions, one of his eyes was knocked out, and a
man really wants four eyes to see properly when travel-
ling at that pace.
* * * *
It was on Saturday, February 9, that Univer-
sity checked Gordon’s previously unbeaten cricket
career, defeating the North Shore line men by 109 runs
in the first innings. But Gordon still remained at the
head of the premiership competition till last Saturday,
when Burwood succeeded in winning by four wickets and
50 runs. The result of this debacle was to knock Gordon
down to second place in the competition with 10 points,
leaving Paddington in first place with 11. The club that
brought about this change, Burwood, is only fourth on
the list with seven points, Glebe being in front of it with
eight.
The afternoon’s cricket was decidedly interest-
ing, and had a Scriptural flavor about it, the mighty
being bumped down with considerable suddenness, and
the teams that had made big scores sent empty away with
only a draw to keep th»m up. F’rinstans,‘on the pre-
vious Saturday, North S;, C.rtey went home feeling good
with 545 on the board for the loss of seven wickets only.
When play was resumed last Saturday, North Sydney
went to the sticks, and when Norman Deane had scored the
solitary one required to make his century, the innings was
declared closed for 548. As there seemed no hope of get-
ting near this colossal score, Redfern settled down to draw.
The Northmen’s fielding was as keen as a razor, and they
rang the changes on the bowling for all they were worth,
and played the game right down to the ground. But it
was no good. Redfern, scoring slowly, saw the minutes
repl away till the light grew bad and the drizzling rain
made play well nigh impossible, and then the stumps
were extracted. With four wickets down for 172 the
Syrian suburb had succeeded in making a draw. Which
was hard luck for North Sydney. The decisive match of
the day was lost by Gordon, owing to lack of bowling
talent. The previous Saturday saw Gordon all out for
277, and on Saturday last Burwood replied with 327 for
the loss of six wickets, and Gordon’s name was mud.
Central Cumberland and Middle Harbor had a great
struggle. Cumberland had closed with 345 for the loss of
six wickets. It seemed safe enough, but Middle Harbor
played up with great spirit, making frantic efforts to score
quickly. The wet wicket militated against it somewhat.
Then the light grew dim and the rain grew wet, and only
221) had been scored for a loss of seven wickets, so the
game ended in a draw. University, which had previously
downed Gordon, itself went down to Balmain by four
wickets and 106 runs. The shocking display was that of
Sydney District against Paddington. Paddington had
closed with 378 for a loss of eight wickets, and it dis-
missed Sydney for a miserable 71, winning by 308
runs. In spite of sensational batting by Cotter, Waverley
was beaten by Glebe with a margin of 132 runs on the
first innings.
Among the individual batsmen Cotter, of
Glebe, did by far the best. His play was a revelation, or
a frenzy, or something of that sort, for he scored 152 in
75 minutes. Six of his strokes resulted in fours, and no
less than 16 brought six each. Twice he hit two sixes in
succession, and two more occasions saw him hit three of
them consecutively. Diamond’s 150 was a neat bit of
cricket, and occupied two hours ten minutes, during
which he hit 21 fours and one six. Among- the bowlers
the best was H. Collins, of Paddington, who took six
Sydney wickets for 36, although it is hardly fair to say
he did better than Dowd, his club-mate, who took two
for one. Cotter also had : a day out, taking three of
Waverley’s for 27.
» * * *
Australia is growing another crop of swimming
champions, but the supply of records seems to have
temporarily run dry. At the Half Mile supremacy-of-the-
State contest at the Fort-street gala, last Saturday,
Reginald Healy, of the East Sydney Club, downed
Dickman, of Pyrmont, and Hill, of East Sydney, in
12min. tf 2-s§efc. The late Barney Kieran’s time for the
distance was llmin. 11 l-ssec. Appearances indicate it
will be some time before we shall see the dead swimmer’s
like again.
* * * *
Woman’s characteristic of knowing exactly
what she wants, and her utter indifference as to how she
gets it, were strongly in evidence at the Ladies’School
swimming gala at Lavender Bay, Sydney, on Saturday.
Fortunately, this spirit among the wet and lovely com-
petitors was met by an equally thorough frame of mind
on the part of the graceful and alluring- committee, and
the latter dealt out disqualifications with royal profusion.
The competitors understated their speed, and repre-
sented themselves as mud-turtles, and then shore through
the water like dolphins. In the excitement of the race
they changed to the side stroke, when the conditions
called for the breast stroke, and generally played up.
But, as before hinted,,the bewitching officials were equal
to the occasion, and there was woe in the water.
* * * *
The important event of the “ gawthering,” as
the parsons say, was the 100yds. girls’ championship of
the public schools, which happened in two heats and
a final. The first heat was won by Elsie Rea, of Fort-
street, in lmin. 46 l-ssec. The second went to Dorothy
Davis, of Gladstone Park, who covered the distance in
lmin. 30sec. In the final Dorothy gave no one else a
chance, but floated away to the front and won easily in
lmin. 28 2-ssec. Dorothy is only 12 years of age, but
much paddling in the salt water (she learned at the age
of four) has made her look more like 15. Her previous
performances in the water were the winning of the
junior championship of St. John’s Swimming Club, and
the championship of Gladstone Park Superior Public
School, both 50yds. events. She only trained over the
100yds. for a fortnight before the race, and swam like a
mermaid.
* • * *
The Victorians who stayed on at Adelaide
for the local tennis championships had not much
say in the results. Parker won the singles for the
third time, and took E. T. Smith's cup outright.
(It was promptly replaced by the offer of another.
The same afternoon, the local eights were rowing
for a second Smith cup and the riflemen were shooting
for another. The veteran ex-brewer is a whole cataract
of cups.) Miss Payne easily beat the other ladies, and
she and Parker won the mixed championship together.
He, however, is not nearly at his best in a double, and the
doubles champions were Dr. Curtis (once of Sydney), and
Boy Taylor, the “coming” Adelaide man. Parker, by the
way, is much hurt at the persistent impression that he
dodges meeting Brookes. He says he makes no claim to be
as good as Brookes; but his absence from Adelaide a year
ago, and from Melbourne last November, was entirely
due to business engagements. He played as promised at
the Maoriland Exhibition, and now at Adelaide, and
Brookes didn’t happen to be there.
* * * *
“Q.Z.”: I never did like fishermen, .and after
what happened at Circular Quay, Sydney, on Sunday
afternoon, I like them less than ever. This is a com-
munity of swimmers, but unfortunately it also contains
fishermen, and that was how it came about that a small
boy was nearly achieving fame by drowning in sight of a
crowd, and within easy reach of assistance. He was
sitting on the edge of a punt, and by some means slipped
in. He tried to call for assistance, but the harbor
poured down his throat and choked him. The fishermen
who were dotted over every spot from which a line
—a fishing line, that is—could be thrown, looked up
dreamily, and a ghost of a smile flitted over some
of their weather-beaten countenances, Not one
moved. The boy sank, and then re-appeared, strug-
gling frantically. The fishermen looked on. As
the boy sank a second time, one of them
slowly upended himself, and without taking the
pipe from his mouth, called in an unconcerned
voice to the Watson’s Bay ferry steamer, which was
over 50yds. away, and the people on which could *not see
the struggling boy. The boy was at the last gasp, and
about to sink for the last time, when another small boy
scrambled on the bulwark of a steamer and threw a rope.
The drowning youth clutched it, and the other boy drew
him alongside and kept him on the surface. “ Are you
all blahky murderers, you blanky sons of female
canines ?” he roared angrily to the fishermen. But the
fishermen never moved, and the boy might have been
drowned as it was had not a sea cook and a horse marine
got into a boat and rescued him. After he was out,
some of the fishermen cursed in whispers about the
iniquity of disturbing the fish.
* * * «
Maoriland athletes had the M.L. Amateur
Championship meeting at Christchureh to themselves
recently—neither N.S.W. nor Victorian Association sent
representatives. The fast times recorded in the events
give the idea that M.L. athletes are growing speedier or
else the watches are. Henderson (one time N.S.W.
athlete) won the 100yds. in 10 l-ssec. —previous winner,
F. E. Drake, didn’t get a place in the first heat. Past
champion Stubberfield went down to Rowland in the
three mile walk. Hector Burk retained the one mile
championship title easily in 4min. 26sec. L. B. Webster
scooped the 440yds. championship. Canterbury Centre
gripped_ the one mile championship relay race. The
only grievance, of the meeting was the disqualification
of H. E. Kerr in the walking championship—the M.L.
athlete had a great reputation, and had recently put un
splendid times. The wiping-out caused an uproar—but
the judge showed no partisan spirit in the decision.
Concerning sculling. It waB freeW rum™
S“t£fi“h2s n! at h eorg - e Towns would > ™ th e tulr
LS’nti 116 championship of the world over "
brother Charles, as there is a lady in the family \vr
woHd U fn that lfc 8ho “ 1 . d P r °<W two champ“ns of
world in one generation. However, the new rules t"
ere d rfiipH y h SUCh pr ° cedure - and the Towns family' ,
“red'ted. by one seekoti of speculators with a desire"
lts object by a more circuitous method. Anyht-i
hronfpr r y ’,i a f Sfc we . ek > Charles Towns challenged his i :
brother to defend his title, and one story is thatGeor-
will forfeit to his little brother on the ground that ■
has no hope of beating the younger man. Anotb-
crowd of speculators, however, has quite a differt:
theory, and that is that the Towns brothers am
Human have formed an aquatic stable, so
speak, , among them, and will all depart togetb
1,1 George Towns has twice won the Spot
man s Cup, the great rowing trophy of Englar,
and a third win will make it his absolute property 1
Towns brothers (it is said) will row for the champions! :
of the world in Canada, and Charles will win. Aftert!
(it is averred) Towns and Durnan will row on the Than -
for the Sportsman’s Cup, when, presumably, Towns u.
win again. Next (it is declared) Durnan will challet
Charles Towns, who will forfeit ; and thus make ever"
body happy. Verily, the ordinary second-sighter, ai
the crystal-gazer are not in it with the sporting propb
when he gets properly going. The most definite item i
the whole programme has not yet been mentioned. T 1
Towns brethren will shortly set up in business as boat,
builders on the Thames, where there is understood to bt
more money in the business than in N.S.W. This i,
apparently, definite. The rest may be set down as cum-
bersome and elaborate rot.
* * * *
The centre of aquatic interest in Sydney on
Saturday was the first of a series of test races between
Saxton’s triumphant new yacht Awanui and the crack
“outsider” Rawhiti. Messrs. Saxton and Brockhofl
steered their own boats, and interest was so keen that
the Gaming Act was temporarily suspended. Tht
Rawhiti’s rating is 41 '5, while that of Awanui is approx;
mated at 37 - 0. So, in the meantime, Mr. Brockhofl make-
his rival a time allowance of smin. 32sec. Later on, when
Awanui has been measured, these allowances will he ad-
justed accordingly. Rawhiti secured the weather berth,
but Awanui drew out, and, speeding away, led to
Bradley’s Head. There the Rawhiti got more cam,v
spread, and came plunging along so fast that Awanui
was overhauled and left behind before reaching
Manly buoy, after which the race became a long stern
chase by Awanui. At Manly, Rawhiti was 20sec. ahead;
at Shark Island it had increased to lmin. 25sec. At the
Fort another 14sec. had been added ; and at the Pile
Light the big yacht was 2min. lsec. in front. Still the
Awanui held on (Rawhiti had not managed to get clear
of the time allowance), and Mr. Saxton did not think it
necessary to hoist any extras for the run home, and
allowed Rawhiti to cross the line 3min. lsec. ahead. The
time allowance left Awanui victorious by 2min. 31sec.
It is to be regretted that Saxton didn’t hoist his extras
and show what his boat really can do.
* * * *
For a consistently-sailed race the Prince Alfred
Club’s contest for the Jenny trophy, on Saturday, on
Port Jackson, would be hard to beat. Two of the scratch
boats, Sunbeam and Culwulla, steadily'overhauled and
cut dow'n boat after boat, and at Manly were half-way
through the fleet, which numbered 11. There Sunbeam’s
goose-neck carried away, but, being refixed with celerity,
the yacht flew on, and at Fort Denison, on the first time
round, the two scratch boats were in charge. In the
final struggle. Sunbeam beat Culwulla by 69sec., and
thereby scored its first win this season.
• - « *
In the open boat sailing under the Sydney
Club’s colors 19 entered and all started, although Cres-
cent was over five minutes late crossing the line. Lead-
ing handicaps were given, and in the freshening breeze
that started from the S.E. and then veered round to the
south in wet gusty squalls, the back-markers had never a
hope. The middle bunch had all its work cut out to
overtake the limit craft, and a wild-cat struggle ensued
in which one boat filled and lost ground during baling
operations; and another filled right up and rolled over.
The succession of savage squalls made things very ex-
citing, and places were changed over and over again.
Out of the racing crowd Mona and Pheasant went bobbing
to the front, and finished in that order, closely followed
by Arawa and Vision.
»*. * *
Squires left Australia Wednesday week for
Maoriland to have a look round the wonders of the North
Island before joining the Sierra there next Monday'. The
reports from Yankeeland are conflicting. The latest
papers to hand indicate very clearly that Squires has
very little chance of meeting Jeffries. But, Jeffries or
no Jeff, so sterling a fighter cannot go wrong in a country
where such a boxing boom is on. The Rhyolite Athletic
Club rejected Jeffries’ demand for 25,000 dollars, win,
lose, or draw; it rejected the demand, with snorts, as
outrageous. The New York Police Gazette prophesied
on January 26 that if Squires refused to fight colored man
Johnson it would prevent him making any good matches
in the States. Well, Squires did refuse, or Johnson
refused ; the thing was so confused that nobody knows
really who refused. And, instead of being wired to stay
at home, messages have been received anxiously inquir-
ing if Squires has started yet. The Jeffries match seems to
be definitely off, and Squires will probably make his debut
in the States in opposition to the winner of the Jack
O’Brien-Tommy Burns fightforthe championship of the
world, which will rage sometime in May'. In the mean-
time, a number of Yankee papers are speaking with dis-
paragement of the Australian champion, and some of
them publish an alleged statement by wrestler Hacker-
schmidt that Squires is not much chop, and that he was
afraid to meet Gunner Moir. Whatever Billiam’s mana-
ger may be afraid of, there is no suspicion that Billiam
himself is afraid of an.vthing that talks. The news that
the Jeffries scrap is definitely off is good ; the Squires-
Jeffries scrap had degenerated into a wearisome farce.


Made
from
4*
Australian Fruits, Flowers
and Herbs. »P
Nothing
So Good
On Earth
For Skin,
Complexion,
Scalp,
Hair,
Skin Disease,
Chapping,
Redness.
m
. . - • ' ' 1 -
" ■
mmm
Kim
Quite Unequalled for
Shaving.
HerV*-/k *J®*} ’ Ol?l^»i^ccl
all
.*t 2r per Box of <D> 'Xexb^ly'*
tolKei-'ropr-icTorA wrw u win oe.rj. 11 -
SoicTfcprietory HEKUGLLMANN & COMPANY
WHOLEJALI^DRUG6UXS-<!>-raNI7FACTURm/.
ft-I6QUEEN• •?• 199 CLARENCE y SADNEY.
k Ar\d ext A'DEL.AIDE & .
receipt of Twopenny Stamp.
FREE SAMPLE sent on
The favorite judicial pose of not knowing
things wouldn’t be half so aggravating if his
Honor didn’t beam so much when he hears of
things. His Honor’s great, glad smile when he
acquires information, and becomes possessed of
knowledge, and finds facts pouring in on him, is
calculated to make any plain citizen cuss. Last
week someone mentioned Squires before Justice
&. B. Simpson of N.S.W. Justice G.B. Simpson
wore a blank expression and asked who was
Squires. Someone said “Bill Squires.” His
Honor looked blanker, and asked who was Bill
Squires. Then someone breathed the facts in his
Honor’s ear, and his Honor beamed like a young,
fresh baby when it first 4 4 hears the tick-tick. His
Honor had learned that Bill Squires was a
pugilist, and he was as glad as a nigger girl when
she gets a yard of red calico.
Twenty years ago a shot missed, fire at the
700 ft. level in the main shaft of the Nymagee
(N.S.W.) mine, and then sinking was abandoned.
The other day, operations were resumed, and the
long-forgotten charge exploded and sent miners
Croxford and Williams to the hospital. the
patience of the tiger stalking its prey is nothing
to that. No tiger ever stalked the same prey five
years, let alone 20.
STAMMERING
can be cured by
correspondence.
Tell all about your
case and send £2 2s for complete course to
W. Phipps, Evening Echo, Bal'arat.
Over 25 years’ experience. References given if
required. It pays to talk well, but a stutterer
is always at a disadvantage.
Barney Allen
__ ; ,
TURF COLOSSUS
OF AUSTRALIA.
THE GOLDEN KING
Address —
BARNEY ALLEN,
Melbourne.
Business Commissions
executed on the most
liberal terms.
30 years before the
public, never found
wanting.
/ guarantee clients the
highest market price
obtainable on the
course.
Intending investors aro
invited to consult mo
before doing business
elsewhere.
/ do not boom myself,
but leave that to
others who have done
business with me
BanKers - Victoria and Royal Ban Ks.
Subscribers
are notified that LATEST INFOR-
MATION will be found in “The
King Of Sport ” newspaper,
published weekly, and posted free throughout Australia for 4s. 6d. yearly.
Address: 44 King of Sport/' Collins St*, Melbourne*
What are You Doing for Your
Children's Musical Education ?
Perhaps you are giving; them music-lessons, taking
them to occasional concerts, &c , all of which is very
good. Why not supplement this work by teaching them
at home the appreciation of good music, making
them familiar with the world’s masterpieces? This can
be easily accomplished in any home where there is a
PIANOLA
The Instrument tl\at Makes
USELESS Pianos USEFUL.
Besides the great enjoyment that the adult mem-
bers of a family gain from the Pianola, it is a powerful
factor in educating the musical tastes of growing
children. Let them become familiar with Chopin and
Schumann, Beethoven and Mendelssohn, while at an
impressionable age, and they will thank you all their
lives for having given them the ability to get pleasure
out of good music.
A Few of the Reasons why the Pianola or
Pianola Piano is worth all that it costs.
To familiarise the children with the best instrumental music.
To cultivate the musical taste while young.
To promote the study of musical form.
To make intelligent and appreciative listeners.
To encourage high standards of excellence in performance.
To illustrate the study of great composers.
To establish an ideal of accurate technique.
To prove an educational, refining, inspiring influence.
„ . , ~ .up pianola has the cordial approval of every successful
Parents shou “assured as to preclude any small jealousies. The Aeolian
teacher whose P oslt on located bv such distinguished teachers of music as Leschetizky,
Company s instruments are advocat J Dr. Hans Richter, F. Van DerStueken, &c.
r,he Pianola, irrespective of any intention to purchase,. n
Descriptive Booklet sent free upon request. Ask for Catalog R.
HENRY M. BIR.GE CO.,
Head Office & Warerooms-185-7 Collins-st., Melbourne.
Branches at 357 George-st., Sydney; 311 Qneen-st.,
Brisbane ; 38 King William-st., Adelaide.
EXPERT OPINION
ON MIRACULUM
W
The Dunlop Rubber Co
of Australasia Ltd.
February 19th., 1907.
The Secretary,
Miraculum Co., Melbourne.
Dear Sir,
1 have thoroughly and severely tested the
sample of Miraculum supplied, and find It le
perfect as a puncture stop, closing large holes
(made with a Knife and file handle) immediately
with the loss of almost no air
I am convinced that Miraculum is quite harm-
less to rubber, rather helping to preserve It.
1 also found that the sample stood unchanged,
at a heat of 200° F.\ whloh temperature la oot
likely to be reached' in a travelling Motor Tube.
Miraculum la easily washed 'Off with water*
and it does not lift patches which have been
properly applied.
fours faithfully.
Chemist to Dunlop Rubber*^
Rubber <g£LU ■
KAIDAOIII a | a/1 is recognised by Cyclists and
IyaIKAUULUIYI Motorists as a Sure Puncture
Stop. All dealers, or at the charging depots :
MELBOURNE-266 Latrobe St.,
SYDNEY— Vickery's Chambers, 82 Pitt St.
Bicycles, 4/- (posted, with injector tin, Vie. and
N.S. W. 5/3, other States 5/8). Motor Oars from 30/.
Yol’r Bicycle
will always yield you greater pleasure-
greater comfort—if it possesses that in-
estimable quality SUITABILITY.
Have it built fir you, and when placing
your order, specify
EADIE FITTINGS.
These components are manufactured in
one of the largest factories in the world
—they are designed by men with a long
and wide experience not only as engineers,
but as practical cyclists also.
They are exceptionally light—exception-
ally strong—of the very highest grade,
and in the construction of the bicycle
built therefrom can be embodied all those
points essential to your comfort.
Write to-day for latest Art catalogue
"Eadie Fittings.” Dept. A
Eadie Mfg. Co. Ltd.
4 Stock Exchange Bdgs.
Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
WORKS: RED DITCH,
ENGLAND.
o
IB
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
CONICAL. BALI.
SMOKELESS POWDER
v By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES. IV.. V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. PacKet ©I
SPECIAL BATES TO AOENTB. lOd. »»


Patrons residing- at a distance will find
it both satisfactory and convenient to pur-
chase through our Mail Order Department,
where all orders receive prompt atten-
tion. All goods sent Carriage Free.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
■ mm ■■■■ii—■■■■ilium i i—m i——— —a,
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
Our Illustrated Catalogue shows or?-
3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather and Optica!
Goods. Send for a copy. It’s free for the
asking. A postcard will bring you a copy
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver, comprising’, ©
articles, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 7s 6d,t
8s 6d, 18s 6d.
Sr*w3'
rf'Kj
s&t
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER, English
oak, pure silverplated
mounts, with cards, etc.,
355. Other style, 15s 6d.
ALL GOODS
SENT CARRIAGE
FREE TO ANY
ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALASIA.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIR-
BRUSH, richly embossed,
Iss 6d. Others, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 17s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Crocodile Leather Purse and
CARD-CASE, pure silvermounts
and lock, 21s. Other styles,
10s 6(J, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cabinet PHOTO. FRAME,
Solid Silver, richly embossed,
floral design, 7s 6d.
Other styles, ,6s 6d, 8s 6d,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Chain PURSE, richly-
embossed, size sin x SJin, 70s.
Engraved design, 60s.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver-plated,
richly embossed, silk-lined, size 4Jin x 2£in, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 255, 30s, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
. MANICURE SET, solid
silver, richly embossed, in
silk-lined case, 15s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 20s,
255, 30s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Travelling’ CASE,
comprising 10 articles, solid
leather, fits into case, £2.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d,
15s, 20s, 255, SOs, 40s, 60s.
A. SAVJ.NDERS.
Toilet Hand MIRROR, pure silver-
plated, handsomely embossed, size
lOin, 10s 6d. Solid Silver, 355,.
Other styles,! 20s, 255,' 30s, 355, •
40s, 50s, 60s.
*
*1
m
m
Q>
. A. SAUNDERS.
Eight-day Walnut CLOCK, dull polished case, strikes
hours and halfs, cathedral gong, enamel dial, 16in high.
37s 6d. Kept in free repair for two years.
Other styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bedroom CLOCK, solid silver mounted,
fancy en mel dial, accurate time-
keeper. 7s 6d:
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH and
COMB, in case, richly embossed, long
white bristles,- 15s 6d.
Other styles, 20s, 255, SOs, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Collar Stud BOX,
pure silver-plated, pierced,
and embossed, 4s 6d.
Other styles, is 6d, 5s 6d,
7s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lemaire’s Field or Marine
GLASS, leather covered, achro-
matic lenses, with sling and
case, 40s. Higher grade, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIRBRUSH,
richly embossed, long bris-
tles, 8s 6d. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, pure silver plated,
highly burnished, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 5s 6d, 15s fid, 20s.
SEND FOR OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING STAND,
telescopic mirror, polished
oak base, 255. Other styles,
10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
k
A ‘ SAUNDERS.
POCKET-BOOK and Letter CASE combined, black
Morocco Leather silk-lined, pure silver mounts and
shield, 12s 6d. Without shield, 10s 6d
Other styles, 5s 6d, Bs, 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d 15s 17s 6d
20s, 255.
A. SAUNDEES.
Travelling SOAP BOX, pure silver-
plated, hand-embossed, gilt lined, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 15s 6d, 20s.
mm,m
Mi ,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Bell RATTLE, Xylonits
Teething Ring, 4a 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d,
8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER,
solid silver, crystal ■
glass roller, 4s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
Toilet Pomade JAR,
solid silver top,
hobnail cut glass,
6s 6d.
Larger, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS. '
WRITING FOLIO, Morocco Leather, silk and leather
™ed, fitted with every convenience, pure silver lock,
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255, 50s, 555.
A. SAUNDERS.
Swan PINCUSHION,
solid silver, velvet
top, 5s 6d.
Other styles, Is 6d,
2s 6d, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH, buck-
skin, pure silver shield, best
rubber lined, 4s 6d. Gold
shield, 7s 6d extra. Other
styles, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 10s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco,
Leather, pure silver mounts, 8s
6d. Other styles, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10*
6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH, and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDERS,
( 809, 811, 813, 815,817 George-street,
1 opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUEJNCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
• Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents: JOHN SANDERSON'& CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
THE
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Queensland Rational Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, i 363.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,270 5 0
ReserveftnGovt. Stock, £43.435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.O. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
fhe Colonial (jjutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. ROBERTS, 0.M.G., M.L.G.
The Hon. Bruce" Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, .Resident Secretary.
The
(Established ,1888:) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed'Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANCH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of neu Z® a ' an< *.
SYDNEY BRANCH
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEOKGE
STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
ODAMTC nDACTC on Australia, New Zea-
unAN I 3 Unnr 1 w land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places!
DALGETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed
Capital Paid up
Reserve Fund
.£4,000,000
£1,000,000.
£165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St:
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHED:
VlCTORlA— Melbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Geraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburne.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, Indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
business.
MEW ONLY!
Why be a Weakling ? Why be a failure whan
health would make you a success in life l Act
to-day. Delays are dangerons.
The Homoeopathic Treatment
Cures Debility Restores Vitality
Banishes Weakness.
Renews Sprightliness
and Vigor,
Makes . Weak Men
Strong, and Strong
Men Stronger.
The Irving Homoeopathic Treatment
will cure you quickly and surely. Write
to-day, and we will send you FREE
sealed, the sth Edition of our Brochure’
“WORDS OF WISDOM,”
a valuable Medical Booklet. Address—
THE
IRVING Homoeopathic Institute,
Corner Hunter & Bligh Sts., SYDNEY.
gfd
Shipping.
nxr. r>. x*.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALOEMAR .. .. 9th APRIL.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 7th MAY.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents, •<*
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
L1MIT1S1),
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £458,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(lnvested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
hfd
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON Via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 16th MARCH,
MEDIC, AERIC, SUEVIC and
PERSIC to follow,
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
New York, See. .. 25 2 6 to 30 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€H LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR THREE-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
*fMILTIADES
MORAVIAN
♦MARATHON
T. F. Spalding
A. Simpson
N. Allan ..
I Noon, Mar. 20
I Noon. April 20
I Noon. May 24
•Twin Screw. fCalling at Hobart.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £52 .. £lO Os to £2O os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
I HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail- Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaria to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
gh
CRUISES. K
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
HOULDER BROTHERS & CO., Ltd.
Passengers Booked to STEAMSHIP OWNERS, FREIGHT CONTRACTORS,
All Parts of the World. SHIP, INSURANCE & CHARTERING BROKERS.
THE HOULDER LIME STEAMERS. for Conveyance of
Passengers, General Cargo, Frozen Produce, &c.
To and from AUSTRALASIA, AFRICA, LONDON, LIVERPOOL, GLASGOW, &o.
Steamer. Tons.
HORNBY GRANGE .. .. .. .. 3,950
OVINGDEAN GRANGE .. 3,650
URMSTON GRANGE 5,420
LANGTON GRANGE .. 9,400
DRAYTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
EESTREE GRANGE 6,230
ROYSTON GRANGE 6,770
Steamer. Tons-
BEACON GRANGE 6,770
RIPPINGHAM GRANGE 9,300
OSWESTRY GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 10,500
THORPE GRANGE 6,380
EVERTON GRANGE (Twin Screw) .. .. 11,500
SOUTHERN CROSS 7,420
First Second and Third Saloon Cabins situated Amidships. Excellent Cuisine. Electric Light.
For full particulars, apply at the OFFICES OF THE COMPANY, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
12 Pall Mall, S.W., London. 14 Water-street, Liverpool. 30 Gordon-street, Glasgow. 337 Calle Cuyo, Buenos
Aires. 446 Calle San Martin, Rosario, Gran Dock, Ensenada, La Plata. Capetown and Durban, South Africa.
Head Office: 146 Leadenhall-street, London, E.C.
OCEANIC S.S. COMPANY.
A. AND A. LINE.
CARRYING HIS MAJESTY’S MAIL.
QUICKEST ROUTE HOME!
3| Da vs to Auckland 8£ Days to Samoa.
15 Days to Honolulu 21 Days to’Frisco.
24 Days to Chicago 25 Days to New York.
31 DAYS TO ENGLAND!
THROUGH FARES TO LONDON, from £42 13s. 4d. up.
SAILINGS EVERY THREE WEEKS.
R.M.S. VENTURA, Twin-screw, sails MARCH 18, Ip.m.
R.M.S. SIERRA, Twm-screw, sails MARCH 28,1p.m.
Passengers have choice of Atlantic Lines, American
Rail Routes. FAVORITE ROUND-THE-WORLD ROUTE.
For particulars apply to
THOS. S. JONES,
General Manager for Australasia,
Pitt and Bridge Streets, Sydney.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., Agents.
Banking. Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.^
WE
w
&
$
' *
Free
S'
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
|Hontdepietefl.«!.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER 3T.| NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To Canada, United States, and
England.
NEXT SAILINGS—
MARCH 18th, APRIL 15th,
MAY 13th.
The Magnificent
Twin-Screw Steamer
MANUKA
SAILS APRIL 15th.
The Most Comfortable Vessel on
the Pacific.
<3T Send for Illustrated Pamphlets, 1S&
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streeb, Sydney.
OCEAIN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.O. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne: Hon. P. S. Grimwadb,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
and
AGENCY COMPANY $ LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIPCO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping’ at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
S.S. Yong-ala, Wednesday,
March 20
(from Huddarfc Parker’s
wharf).
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday,
April 3.
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
BRISBANE,
MACIvAY, >
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oalrns. 1
8.5. Marloo, March 16
5.5. Gabo, March 23.
Best and Cheapest Iloute to tioldjlelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Mari times
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE-
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, as follows :-=•
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, China,
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Customs,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Offices,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
J. LOTH. Acting Principal Agent
Hotels.
MELBOURNE"
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon Rleltl Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-*- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotelsu City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor,
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
VISITORS TO BRISBANE.
Brisbane*
Union
Select Private Establishment for Families, Ladies,
Commercial Gentlemen. Patronised by several
leading' members Commercial Travellers’Associa-
tion. Large garden and lawn. Excellent cuisine.
TERfIS MODERATE.
Henry Skinner,
Clarendon-st., South Melbourne.
Telephone No. 10k$. •^.CATERER.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to him.
Public and g*“g ,0 ‘ Banquets and
Private Balls ? e e rmT bla Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING FLOORS
of Various Sizes Supplied.
•Miy
NOTICE TO MELBOURNE VISITORS.
WIMPOLE'S GEORGE HOTEL, opposite St
Kilda Rai way Station and Cable Trams. Largest
Hotel Accommodation in Victoria. Passenger Lift
INCLUSIVE TARIFF for Boarders, 9s. per Day, or from
2 Guineas per Week,
AMUSEMENT for OLD and YOUNG. Y
WONDERFUL VALUE.
A PACKET of EIGHT DIFFERENT ARTICLES.
comprising the Magician’s Demon Bottle Trick (one
of the cleverest tricks to be found in our varied stockL
Book of Conjuring Tricks (containing over 10)
coin and card tricks), The Blood-Curdling Nail
Trick (something new), The Wizard Fish (gives
the definition of your character very superior
for parlor entertainments), the Joker’s Love Bond
(a good catch), One Sheei of Yankee Comic Cari-
catures (Is Marriage a Failure), the Wizard’s Ring' or
the Disappearing Coin Trick, and, last of all, the Famous
Wizard of the North’s Changeable Pack of Cards (in-
structions enclosed). This splendid packet posted to an y
address in Australasia, free, on receipt of 2s. 6d.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Box 3, P. 0., Haymarkot.
XNcw York Novelty Co.,
710 George Street, Sydney.


iLU.-/7\A*4 3-g «*>s> (W
©te 3Wr// Hxpredd. £
-©-CN 0«IV fliwrtui** iMn I«f dx ft* Rtn Wttrta. rt»
$ "r-^t—Jk
* j
Ui & 1-4H> 'lyjJL-.Lli S»
/‘V K * 7
,/a Vu<_fi /X/LqcUL 'WlivC,
<*C
}»vv~~ 4£-««i-4 ert-^y^
f7V*W
GlttkaJl*)'
dtz^y
wj^TA^iA 4fcr"'’Z'c-C—B •
■ev. cL
a//
PS
/
t
■’fc.V'
0 y
>c :
y jy
ftC,
vfV
f'O d(
s
97c p/w
'V€a*-jGp (sr-
Or curri, Cl
clfrurvL. / 2 *l/Z <J& fit cr
<& •ttrr-(Xsrx. CVO QOrtZ cA~
WrytW'rfr ctH'yui (7~fy.
sSa/arf:*
ViAJL fljL-Cr. CcX. ct 'V'tnrtf
oim ol wircCl (a
V
(?\
%
W X
_«xv&-
sx
■v
X.
w %. rtf. O-
if
/£=. fZ /tuW*^
. —... £**-J /usist*. <6* '^~
+ ti*4. 'l^l+* y &at*
YtsUf 4s*-<~ SW^-
Ho
gfdh
gfd
hfgd
Jo •/*'
Jo
*8
V'•
%
s^-
X.
L ■%•
\
X \
\
X
X
a
Ik .
1
s
tes
i
/■ -
V
SR?
, » ''%'%
r ‘ '
i ’ - 4<V>
SPSSgS
*B>l£
arjiw
FULL
<54
W&.
w,
SATISFACTION
ALL ROUND.
From every quarter comes
warm appreciation of Vice-
Regal Mixture—a tobacco
perfectly cool, exquisitely
sweet, and delightfully
flavored.
In every tin of Vice-Regal Mixture
is placed an inset. On receipt of 12
insets we will forward post free to
any address
An Embossed Ash Tray
as shown here considerably reduced
in size. \ 'A'
W. D.-&H.O. Wills
vSydney.
P.S.-Let us Have your opinion of
the Mixture.


hg
I WANT
CODE’S Funny picture Book;
JOHNNY SMITH’S GOT ONE.
The Best Book in tl\e
‘World for Children.
(An Australian Production.)
Sold at Cole’s Book Arcade, Bourke
and Collins Streets, Melbourne.
Cole’s Book Arcade, 67 Bundle-street,
Adelaide.
Cole’s Book Arcades, 333 and 346,
both sides of George-street, just 100
yards below the Post Office, Sydney.
And by all Booksellers throughout
Australasia.
Every child knows the book by its
rainbow cover. Ask any Australian
child under twenty what they think of it,
and you will get an answer.
A new and enlarged edition of “Cole s Funny
Picture Book” has just been issued. This book
has had a famous career. It was first issued 27
years ago, since which 300,000 copies have been
sold. A reviewer, speaking of it some years ago,
said, “ The object of the work is a Kindergarten
one, to please and instruct at the same time. It
is our duty to strive and make all instruction a
pleasure instead of a pain, especially so for
children. It contains all the old leading jingles
and child stories dear to the childish mind, and
much that is new in pieces and pictures by the
author and compiler. It is an extraordinary
book by an extraordinary man. It has had an
immense circulation and done much to pleasingly
educate young Australians. Hundreds of thous-
ands of times children, of their own accord, have
taken this book and sat down in the common
room, in the nursery, under the verandah, or else-
where, and pored over its contents with great
delight, and have often made more headway in
reading than they would by painfully trying to
learn the uninteresting school task; and tens of
thousands of times parents have been gratified to
see their children read this book to each other for
another cause than that of pleasurable instruction
and employment —namely, for that it has kept
them ‘ good ’ and out of mischief.” It is objected
by some that many of the poetic stories and
pictures, such as those showing animals acting
and speaking like human beings are untrue, and
therefore bad teaching ; but all hyperbole, all
parable, all fiction is untrue. Certainly four-fifths
of all books that were ever written are literally
untrue; yet they contain an immense amount of
good teaching, and many of the greatest, most
instructive, and most exquisite intellectual joys
of life would be banished if we did away with all
figure and fiction. Hundreds of these simple
pieces, poems, and pictures contain a good moral
lesson, put in an impressive and pleasing manner.
The present edition is enlarged from 120 to 224
pages, and is sold at 2s. fid. It contains 2300
items, large and small, consisting of 1000 Pieces,
Poems, and Jingles—7so Pictures—soo Riddles,
and 70 Picture Puzzles. Altogether it is, pro-
bably, as the publisher claims, and as a vast sale
corroborates, the funniest, best, and most favored
Child’s Picture Book in the World.
mm
I'M JOHNNY SMITH.
I've got Cole's Funny
Picfture Book,
I’M SO GLAD.
ESTABLISHED 35 YEARS.
Australian Stones, mounted
by Australian Workmen, to
Australian Designs.
G. W. GATANAGH,
Diamond Setter, Importer of Gems,
Cor. Little Collins St and Royal Arcade,
, MELBOURNE.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS our
Specialty. * Finest Gems;
REST SELECTION in Town.
No. 2153.
3 Fine Diamonds,
£25 ; others £3O, £2O
and £l5.
No. 6095.
DreSs Bings to £2O.
Emerald or Buby
Centre.
No. 2156.
Clusters, £5 to £4O.
No. 6094.
10 Diamonds, £lO ;
also £B, £l2 to £2O.
No. 2150. ■
17 Finest Brilliants,
Emerald, or Ruby
Centre, £l2 10s.
No. 2152.
Fine Brilliants, £10;
others, £l2 to £2O.
No. 699.
Nurse’s Silver Watch, 355.
No. 657.
Lady’s Neat Gold Watch,
Perfect Gem, £3.
No. 1050.
Newest Paris Designs, Enamel
and Pearl, 50s.
No. 701.
Two Years’ Guarantee. Our Special English
Lever 15 Jewels, Compensation Balance, Gun
Metal’, 305., Open Face. Silver Hunter, 70s.
Gold-Filled, 20 years’ guarantee, £4 JOs.
Our Assortment of Brooches
and Pendants, 2000 to select
from, all newest designs,
£lO to £l5O.
ALL GENUINE PEARLS.
No. 45.
Very Handsome, 15ct., 50s.
No. 1642.
Enamel and Pearl, Pretty
Art Design, 355.
No. 1621.
Pretty Pearl Spray, 40s.
No. 1572.
Pearl and Turqnoise,
15ct., 355.
ALBERTS, 15ct.,
Any Design,
80s. per oz.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
No. 1573.
Pearl or Pearl and Turquoise,
15ct., 21s, 255, 30s.
No. 3/1537.
Enamel and Pearls,
20s.
Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 16th February, 1907.
CLEARING- OF PILLIGA SCRUB.
TENDERS are invited for the clearing of about
5000 acres of the Pilliga Scrub.
Forms of tender, plans and specifications, and
conditions may be inspected at the Information
Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney, and at
the Crown Land Agents’ Offices at Narrabri,
Moree, and Gunnedah.
Tenderers will be required to give alternate
prices—
(a) With plant supplied by Tenderer ;
(b) With plant supplied by the Government.
i The successful tenderer will be required to pay
a security deposit of 24 per cent, on amount of
tender on the execution of contract, and to enter
into a contract with His Majesty for the due per-
formance of the work.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under
Secretary for Lands, and be marked
“ Tender for Clearing Pilliga Scrub."
Tenders will be received up to and inclusive of
Wednesday, the 20th day of March, 1907.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Robert McDonald,
Acting Under Secretary.
6a90
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 7th March, 1907.
GOBBAGOMBALIN AND MARRAR
SETTLEMENT PURCHASE AREAS.
IT is hereby notified, for public information, that
an area of 89,377 acres, in 184 Farms, parishes
of North Wagga, Gobbagombalin, Tooyal,
Warren, Bulgan, Malebo, Cottee, Maror, Kinili-
bah, and Marror, counties of Clarendon and
Bourke, will become available for settlement
purchase application under the provisions of the
Closer Settlement Act of 1904, and the Closer
Settlement (Amendment) Act, of 1906, on and
after the ISth March, 1907.
The land is suitable for grazing and all classes
of farming, and is situated near the town of Wagga
Wagga, on the Southern Railway Line, and the
Railway Stations of Coolamon and Marrar, on the
Junee to Hay branch line.
The areas of the farms range from 59 acres to
acres, the capital values (including value, of
improvements, etc.) from £597 7s. 6d. to £6,505 Is.
3d. per farm (£2 2s. to £l4los. per acre).
An application for a Settlement Purchase shall
be in Form 14, and must be accompanied by a
deposit of 5 per centum of the notified value of
the Settlement Purchase, The application shall
be signed, and the declaration printed on the back
of the form shall be made by the applicant or by
his duly authorised agent or attorney. The appli-
cation may be lodged with the Land Agent at
Wagga Wagga by the applicant in person, or by
his agent or attorney in person, duly authorised for
the purpose in writing, during office hours on the
18th March, 1907, or during office hours on any
subsequent business day, or may be forwarded on
any day to the Land Agent in a registered letter,
but so as not to be received by him before the 18th
darch, 1907. ,
Applications received on any day from the 18th
o the 23rd March, 1907, inclusive, will be treated
as simultaneous.
The Local Land Board, sitting at Wagga
Wagga on the 25th March, 1907, and following
days, will deal with applications lodged between
18th and 23rd March, inclusive of those days. _
Full particulars, together with maps showing
the lands in question, may be obtained from the
Information Bureau, Department of Lands,
Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent in the State.
robert McDonald,
5a126 Acting Under-Secretary.
I CURE FITS.
As a letter of introduction predisposes
one in favour of the bearer, so advertis.
ing may predispose one in favour of the
thing advertised; but, unless the article
advertised possesses in itself qualities
which the World values, no amount of
praise will insure its success—therefore
- I give you a bottle of my remedy, to try,
before purchasing any; it speaks for itself
I have given away over 70,000 sample
bottles during the past 20 years, and I
can guarantee it to be the best and safest
remedy for Pits yet discovered. I have
testimonials of cures from all over the
World.
A safe remedy—approved by the
Medical Profession, /
TRY IT.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45, Museum SL, Bloomsbury, London,
England.
Send 1/- for parcel postage to the Colonies.
Medicator, size
3i inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades tire passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren-
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 229231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
\n?, SAFE
| and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps"
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317. Collins St., Melbourne; or
address’Qß'eener, Birmingham.’


u
fed
IUuJ
POB
fd
Why Not Make Your
Own Records with the
EDISON Phonograph ?
Are there friends from whom you are separated,
whose voices you would like to hear ?
With the help of an Edison Phonograph you can
have a real talk from them and send an answer in
your own voice.
Think what a pleasure it would be to have records
with the voices of your distant friends on them.
You can make records for yourself—right in your
own home, and they can be sent by mail anywhere.
We have a little booklet—ready now—entitled,
“ Making Records at Home with an Edison
Phonograph.”
We would like you to have a free copy and will
gladly send it if you will fill in and mail this coupon.
The National Phonograph Co. of Australia,
Limited,
Dept. B, 340 Kent St., Sydney.
Please send a free copy of your booklet, “Making
Records at Home with an Edison Phonograph ” to
M
Bulletin-,
14/3/’O7.
THE NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH
CO. OF AUSTRALIA, Ltd.,
dept, b, 340 Kent Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
fgdh
•'HARNESS THE WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
OF ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN'S
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We are the Largest
Importers in Australia
op
Carbide of Calcium.
Get our Prices before
ordering- elsewhere.
James Martin & Co-
-161 Clarence St., Sydney
acetylene
lamp.
THIS RAZOR ISA
fddfg
h
Send 10/6
TO-DAY FOR
K6e Plum Razor
POST FREE ANYWHERE.
TYO YOU SHAVE
EVERY DAY?
If you shave every day, or only three
times a week, the PLUM RAZOR will
do the work for you all the year round
without a “ murmur.” You’ll get good,
comfortable shaves and quicker shaves
without the “ pulling.”
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St. t Sydney.
=» 21 s
PRIZE
fdh
Tritvf is your Cue
WHEN ORDERING BILLIARD
„ REQUISITES OR
Athletic goods
OF aNY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Aleock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth.
Wellington,N.Z.&L9NDoN.
BILIOUSNESS * HEADACHE REIiOVE
THE EFFECTS OF A BAD LIVER.
The brilliant work of Pawlow and his pupils has brought
to light many important facts concerned with the action of
the liver. His investigations go to prove that in many
diseases the battle is lost or won according as the safety-valve
functions of the liver rise and fall. The consequences which
follow liver derangement are very extensive. The symptoms
are pale and sallow complexion, headache, a bitter taste,
coated tongue, depression of spirits, languor, cantankerous
moods, insomnia, loss of appetite, flatulency, acrid eructations,
irregular bowels, usually constipated, and pain between the
shoulder-blades. To a sluggish liver is to be ascribed the
mental deterioration, the loss of memory, and gradual extinc-
tion of the intellectual powers. When liver trouble arises
from any cause take a dessertspoonful of Kutnow’s Powder
in the morning before breakfast. The action of this refresh-
ing corrective is materially hastened by a cup of hot tea
taken about ten minutes after; in twenty or thirty minutes
the desired effect is attained, and the entire system is
cleansed and invigorated. You can try it free of all cost!
Kk
TNOW’S” 1
POWDER
f
ISP
Hirsehensprung, or Deer Leap
moot
UJNOONi
♦I FARRIN6DON ROAD, E£
mm
The EXPERIENCE of PUBLIC MEN.
A FAMOUS NOVELIST
WHITES :
“31 Gatton Road, Bristol,
“ August 14th, 190 G.
“ Dears Sirs,—For a considerable
period I suffered from severe head-
ache and mental depression, no
doubt accentuated by my sedentary
occupation as a novelist, but I now
always fly to Kutnow/s Powder
when I feel an attack imminent,
which never fails to afford instant
and pleasurable relief. It truly is
amarvellous and efficacious remedy,
and I do not wonder at its enormous
sale. “Yours faithfully,
“FRED LUDLOW.”
AN ARMY OFFICER
WRITES :
“ IC4 Seymour Place, W.,
“ April 23rd, 1906.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much plea-
sure in stating that I have derived
much benefit from Kutnow’s Pow-
der, and, after taking four bottles,
am com pletely cured of abscess on
liver, contracted after a residence
in an Eastern climate of twenty
years. I now take a dose once or
twice weekly, and would not be
without a bottle.
“ I am, yours truly,
“0. ANDERSON,
“(General, Retired).”
How to Detect Fraudulent Substitutes.
Be careful to avoid spurious substitutes, which frequently cause
irreparable injury. The genuine and original Kutnow’s Powder is
strongly recommended by all leading physicians for the stomach,
liver, kidneys, and bowels. Insist on getting Kutnow’s, which
you can obtain at all conscientious chemists throughout the world.
Examine the package (shown in the reduced illustration) and see
that it bears the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow and Co. Ltd.,”
and the registered trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap.”
You will then avoid imitations, and know
How to secure Genuine Kutnow’s Powder
The British
Medical
Journal
SAYS :
“It is gentle, effer-
vescent, and is a very
efficient and agreeable
aperient.”
Prof. I. N. LOVE, M.D.,
WROTE :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson Tait, M.D., himself a
sufferer from a gouty diathesis, found Kutnow’s Powder of great
value to himself personally and in his practice, and this remedy is
one of the few he conspicuously endorsed over his own signature.
Kutnow’s Powder stimulates the activities of the bowels and
kidneys. A dessert-spoonful in a tumblerful of water taken
immediately on rising in the morning cleanses the bowels, acts as
a diluent, and flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no better eliminator
than Kutnow’s Powder.”
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases of Children
and Hygiene, Marion-Sims College of Medicine, and
College of Physicians and Surgeons.)
KUTNOW’S POWDER GOVERNS THE STOMACH!
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.
[6—l L


Ears Looked as if They Would Drop
Off—Body Entirely Covered
Face Mass of Sores —Three
Doctors Could Not Cure—Child
Grew Worse—Face and Body
Now Clear.
CURED BY CUTICURA
IN TWO WEEKS
Mrs. George J. Steese, of 701 Coburn
St., Akron, Ohio, tells in the following
letter of another of those remarkable
cures of torturing,
disfiguring skin hu-
mours daily made
by Cuticura Soap,
assisted by Cuticura
Ointment, after
physicians, and all
else had failed: “I
feel it my duty to pa-
rents of other poor
suffering babies to
tell you what Cuti-
cura has done for
my little daughter.
She broke out all over her body with a
humour, and we used everything recom-
mended, but without results. I called
in three doctors, they all claimed they
could help her, but she continued to
grow worse. Her body was a mass of
sores, and her little face was being
eaten away; her ears looked as if they
would drop off. Neighbors advised me
to get Cuticura Soap and Ointment, and
before I had used half of the cake of
Soap and box of Ointment the sores had
all healed, and my little one’s face and
body were as clear as a new-born babe’s.
I would not be without it again if it
cost five dollars, instead of seventy-five
cents, which is all it cost us to cure
our baby, after spending many dollars
on doctors and medicines.
The original of the above testimonial is on file in the
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: R.Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S. W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for every
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age,
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of
all druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug &
Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
B=3“ Mailed Free, “ All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair."
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
4-
<r'£S.
9m\
2
B*>
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
On the hottest days I am cool and
comfortable because I am particular
to drink little, and to see that the little
I drink is either pure “Montserrat”
Lime Fruit Juice, or “ Montserrat ”
Sweetened Lime Juice Cordia 1 ,
diluted with plain or aerated water.
‘Montserrat ’ is sold by all chemists, grocers, etc.
IS THE
UnderwooD
Cold
Medals,
Paris,
1900.
Venice,
1901
Buffalo
1901
Rome,
1902
Limoges,
1903
St. Louis,
1904
Luttich,
1305
Chicago,
1906
SIGHT WRITINC. BILLING
AND CORRESPONDENCE D'CCX }
TYPEWRITER ♦
Just try it and you will see WHY it IS.
And why the Underwood Is
COVETED by arm-wracked
Operators.
ENVIED its success by TRUSTS and
COMBINATIONS.
SCOFFED at by old fashioned Reliables
FLA TTERED by Copyists, and
BOUGHT for its STERLING QUALITIES.
FILE on the WABASH System.
WRITE on the UNDERWOOD.
JONH SANDS: Dep. U : 374 George-street,
Sydney.
105,000
The Waybacß iSeries,
Australia laughed 111 No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry, ts
MOTHER
♦§!
SEIGELS
SYRUP
THE WORLD’S
SUPREME REMEDY
FOR DYSPEPSIA,
BILIOUSNESS and
ALL DIGESTIVE
TROUBLES.
When your digestion
is wrong ALL is
wrong. It is impossible to
have sound health without
sound digestion; and in these
strenuous days it is practically
impossible to maintain a sound
digestion without the aid of a
digestive tonic. Mother Seigel’s
Syrup is the unfailing remedy
for ALL digestive trouble.
TAKE ITS!
and you will be convinced.
fgd
“I was almost a total wreck, and i
all out of order. If I was not
suffering from terrible pains in my
kidneys I was in agony with my
head. Biliousness and indiges-
tion added to my misery and I
scarcely ate sufficient to keep
body and soul together. But
though everything else had
failed, Mother Seigel’s
Syrup restored me to
the splendid health I
now enjoy.”
From Mr. DAVID LESLIE,
115, Bourke St., Woolloomooloo,
Sydney. March 2, 1906.
MOTHER SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
IS MADE OF THE
EXTRACTS of ROOTS,
BARKS and LEAVES,
AND IS A PURELY
VE GETA BLE
PREPARATION.
CURES
INDIGESTION
*♦ TAKE IT DAILY, AFTER MEALS.
r he
ftiiST Natural aperient watsk.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
*« Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with ct
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
n K TTm?AIT Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
11 All | lUjjf ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS . . .
In Whipcords and Q /% / . /A
Saddle Twists, > C Jm*j
RIDING BREECHES . . .
Whl, 't”au Twists, 32/6 to 50 -
Garfoardines and Twillettes
32/6 to 45/-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated,
Design No. HO,
50/-to 75/-
FLY or SPLIT* FALL FRONT.
LACED or BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES,
cat very dean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
Smartest Knickers Worn.
Specially Designed for PERFECT
FREEDOM in WALKING, FISHING,
SHOOTING, GOLFING, MOTORING,
« ms
Wm
*
lit?
srtf
a
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.—A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns.
Post Free on application. Write Now to .. .
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED
“shakers, 300-810 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
«2EST? 178 2
PHCBNIX
Assurance Company of London
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY (Falmouth Chambers). ROBERT WALTER MARTIN, Manager.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, Is.
Packet of TEN, lOd
The Darling Downs Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Toowoomba, Q.): —
Dividends and To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividend-Tax. Reserves, serves
1897 £8 4 per cent. = £7 £1 £1
1898 87 4 „ „ 76 11 12
1899 220 5 „ „ 175 45 57
1900 485 5 „ ~ 339 146 203
1901 778 5 „ „ 481 297 500
1902 1223 6 „ ~935 288 788
1903 1657 6 „ ~1220 437 1225
1904 1867 6 „ „ 1471 396 1621
1905 2390 6 „ „ 1888 502 2123
1906 3012 6 „ „ 2401 611 2734
The dividend is 5 per cent., and a bonus of 1 p.c. is paid ;
but the bonus is also paid to borrowing members, and
the whole amount is lumped together. In the foregoing,
the estimated amount paid to borrowers is deducted from
profits. The society continues its very prosperous
career, and has as much money as it well knows what to
do with ; moreover, this money is invested in shares —the
fixed deposits amount to only £350. This is the safe
policy ; members’ money under such conditions has only
to carry the risk of the depreciation of one lot of assets ;
when there is borrowed money, members have to stand
the risk of losses on two lots, and pretty often the small
balance of profit on the borrowed money doesn’t any-
thing like compensate for the extra risk. Yet, nine cases
cut of ten, the more freely borrowed money flows in, the
riskier the business that is taken ; which is why building
societies have mostly bad a rOckv time hitherto.
The Melbourne minor cities—or cityettes—of
Prahran, St. Kilda, &c., are badly served by the Electric
Light and Traction Co., in comparison with Melbourne
proper, where the service is a shining example of
municipal socialism. The E.L. and T. Co. is a Private
Enterprise of the Bull-dawg breed, but its bloated
capital is insufficient for all the business requirements.
It runs the electric tram and lighting systems at
Bendigo and Geelong, and these require so much cash
in the working that the co. is not in a position to
supply the Melbourne suburbs with as good a light as
the City Council supplies at a much lower rate. The
City Fathers, starting with the advantage of an estab-
lished plant and clientele (taken over from the Alcock
co.), are able to give a 230-volts continuous current, as
against a 200-volts alternating current, which is the best
that Private Enterprise can do thus far. The alternating-
current system breaks down sometimes, especially on
Saturday nights, owing to Private Enterprise’s cheese-
paring policy. The City Council employs many officers
in attending to little matters of detail, whereas the
foreign co. seemingly requires an engineer-in-chief to
undertake all manner of duties. Anyhow, the result of
Private Enterprise is unsatisfactory, after every allow-
ance has been made for the difficulties incidental to
the opening up of new ground. And this unsatisfactory
state of things exists under chartered conditions, like
those of the local tramways co.
* * * *
Ballina Co-operative Produce Co. (N.S.W.):
Suppliers’ Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Bonus.' off. serves.
1903 .. £1503 5 p.c. = £l3l £428 £437 £1156
1904 .. 827 5 „ ~ 148 229 465 1141
1905 .. 1549 7£,» „ 242 425 547 1476
1906 .. 1269 5 „ „ 165 259 531 1790
The co. made 417 tons of butter during the year, 228 tons
of it in the latter six months. After making a refund to
suppliers, and writing off something for wear and tear,
its own profit was £479, or just under £1 per ton—a very
small margin, considering that the co. has to stand the
racket of bad debts, &c. Generally speaking, the co.
pays the supplier ljd. and a small fraction per lb. less than
it receives; so with the bonus he gets, his butter-manu-
facture, &c. (including boxes), costs him a shade over Id.
per lb. This wouldn’t pay the butter co. ’s expenses ; but
it gets a trifle from sales of ice, and a trifle more fioin
cold storage,,and a larger trifle from the “overrun’’—the
extra butter the co. gets out of the milk over and above
what the supplier is paid for according to tests. “ Over-
run ” is the milk suppliers’ bugbear ; but in this case it
doesn’t seem to amount to much. And, anyhow, when
it’s a co-operative factory the supplier gets it back what-
ever it is.
* * • *
The decision of Australian copper producers to
do their own refining is one more set-back to the stupid
talk about Australian labor conditions and demands.
Electrolytic refining is, of course, no new thing here, as
works have been in operation at Lithgow, and a small
plant was installed at Wallaroo ; but these proposed
customs works will take the business further than was
ever contemplated hitherto, It is quite possible a
scheme for utilising some cheap source of power, such as
gas from blast-furnaces or coke ovens, will be associated
with the works ; for this utilisation of cheap power is
one of the silent revolutions of latter-dav industry.
N.S. Wales presents the best facilities in the way of
coal and shipping, and the latter will probably turn the
scale in its favor for the location of these works.
* * * *
Whatever its future may be, the Port Arthur,
at Piggoreet, 25 miles from Ballarat, has put up almost a
Victorian latter-day record. Found under two years ago,
2s. per share on 30,000 shares, was put into the mine, and
already shareholders have got back 2s. in dividends, and
bought a steam-winch, 19-head battery, crushing plant,
and Wilfleys, and, last, a winding engine. Now, with
money in hand, they reach out for another 10-head, and
are thinking over a cyanide plant. The co. turns out
about 4500 z. a month from a reef which, though lately
tapped at 200 ft., has not yet been stoped below 100 ft.
The stone has been proved for 500 ft. in length;
about two-thirds of it goes, say, 15dwt., and the
rest 6dwt. At the northern end the good-looking
reef is sft. wide, and runs somewhere about Bdwt.,
so there seem to be further makes of stone that way;
up to now three makes have been met. Not a great
deal is known about the mine below the 100 ft. level, but
winzes have given local and Ballarat people consider-
able confidence in it. In Melbourne the co. is little heard
of ; the principal owners of the mine up to date have
loftily remarked that it was quite bad enough to mix
with one lot of sharks, and they could find that lot much
nearer than Melbourne.
* * * *
The United States Commerce Department, in a
[ recent report, shows the sort of thing that the Aus-
I tralian makers of olive oil have to bump against, and the
sort of thing that the Commerce Act is trying to protect the
Australian stomach against. France and Italy supply the
world’s market with what is known as “fine” olive oil.
During the last six years their crops have fallen off so
much that they have continually purchased Spanish olive
oils. These oils are mixed in France and Italy
with from 30 to 40 per cent, of cotton-seed and other
oils which enter France and Italy duty free.
So Spain, which once supplied Europe and America with
genuine olive oil, has practically ceased to export, except
to the two swindling countries, all of its crop being
grabbed by French and Italian adulterators. As the
supply of the delicately-flavored pure olive oil from
Europe is thus practically nil, the United States have
started to cut in to assist the adulteration by producing
a special class of cotton-seed oil—sparkling, golden in
hue, tasteless and odorless ; also, it does not congeal, and
so is right into the hands of the fakirs. This oil is sold cheap
in France and Italy ; and as an adulterant it is pushing
even peanut oil out of the market. The foreign olive-oil
business seems to be all swindle and adulteration.
• • » *
North Queensland Chinese merchants are trying
to dodge the Australian law, forbidding the importation
of opium, by importing it in the form of alleged medi-
cines—pills, powders, and tablets, made up in such a
way that they can be smoked. Three Oooktown Ohow
firms that were recently asked about it explained to the
Customs that they had imported the goods as patent
medicines, and that they are used by Sin Fat as an
antidote to opium. Which is a good deal like drinking
beer out of a glass to cure yourself of the habit of drink-
ing it out of the bottle, and then calling yourself a tee-
totaller. ,
“Via” : My friend in the Customs was looking
extra spruce, and explained the spruceness : “ You see,
my missus was a drapery saleswoman. She knows the
selling price and the cost price of most lines ; so when
she spotted that Rag Tag and Co. were selling goods that
couldn’t be bought and duty paid at the Agger, I made
one or two inquiries on my own. Then I asked one of
the bosses, just quiet like, if I could get some togs on the
Kathleen Mavourneen plan (‘lt may be for years, and it
may be for ever’), and he said, ‘Well, seeing as it’s
you.’ And I said ‘Yes, seeing as it’s me.’ And it was
me, and there you are,”


| SPIES’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Murphy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt Streets).
THIS MEN’S
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
76
76
U
/
«U'‘'
THIS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.”
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Face. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKUNC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
have you
noticed how
thin it is
growing on top ? Does’nt show
when your hair is dressed, but it
worries you just the same.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
will cure those thin places. It
will nourish, and rebuild your
scalp out of which your hair
grows and upon which it depends
for strength, and life. Be sure,
you get Barry’s.
Beutcr’s Soap improves complexions
■S'
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 11566.
'CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambetli Road, London, Eng.
Y. J. Daley’s Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s. 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
A Genuine COLUMBIA
> GRAPH-”-™™ 1
and A GOLD
U MOULDED
COLUMBIA Records
Jk I ONE
CM I POUND
STERLING*
for
(4
THIS
G
R
A
P
H
o
p
H
O
N
E
is NOT a Toy, but a COMPLETE and PERFECT TALKING MACHINE,
using any make of Cylinder Records, and gives SPLENDID RESULTS.
Particular attention is called to the fact that this Machine does not depend upon
the Record alone to carry the Reproducer, as do most cheap models, but has a
proper FEED SCREW and NUT.
The Instrument has a MICA DIAPHRAGM, LEATHER DRIVING-BELT,
SPEED REGULATOR, and can be WOUND WHILE PLAYING. In fact, it
has all the essential features of the Higher-Priced Machines.
£1
f A COLOMBIA GRAPH-o-Phone
X and 6 Gold Moulded Records
£1
THE BEST TALKING MACHINE Sold
Anywhere for so Reasonable a Price.
Dept, B, COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.,
255 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Write for Catalogue of Machines and Cists of Records.
EVERYTHING AMISS.
MANY MEDICINES—ONE REMEDY.
MR. J. BERLIN, OF BALMAIN, HOLDS FRIENDS SPELLBOUND WITH
AMAZEMENT AT RAPID RECOVERY FROM HELPLESSNESS AND ILL-
NESS-CURE AFFECTED BY
Clements Tonic
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
At the bootmaking premises of Mr. John Berlin,
which are situated at No. 357 Darling-street,
Balmain, a reporter had an interview of sufficient
interest to the public to justify its appearance in
these columns. Mr. Berlin’s remarks were:—
“Fora considerable period prior to two years
ago I was unfortunate in having a serious turn of
ill-health, and now that I am well again it is my
desire to impart to other sufferers such imforma-
tion as will enable them to get rid of their ail-
ments also, for nothing is so hard as to be ill and
not know what to take to get better.”
“What was amiss with you, Mrl Berlin?”
queried the writer.
“Everything, I think; for I seemed to have
gone wrong in every conceivable shape and form,
and what caused me to feel my position so keenly
was the fact that I could gain no benefit from any-
thing I took. The remedies I tried were so
numerous that I really cannot remember them all,
and besides those things I drank a lot of physic
which my doctors prescribed for me. They said
my kidneys and liver were out of order, and that
I was thoroughly run down as well, and, goodness
knows, they were right, for my vitality was so
low that I hadn’t enough energy to do a stroke of
work. Many a day I felt so weary, so utterly
downcast and fatigued, that I coufd not remain
at my shop any longer, and I would knock off;
but even then I did not better myself, as I could
find neither peace nor enjoyment in any direction.
What a difference there was in me then compared
to the time when I landed in Sydney from Sweden
—which was on the day that the New; South
Wales troops arrived from the Soudan. I was
then so hearty and vigorous that I hardly knew
my own strength, but what a sorry wreck I was a
little over two years ago. I was wretched, with
a feeling as if something dreadful was going to
happen—as if I had done something wrong, and
was going to be paid back in my own coin, and I
took quite a dislike to mixing in company. I felt
that I always wanted to be alone—that the world
was a sham, and that there was nothing in it to
live for ; and, true enough, there was nothing in
it for me to live for, unless it was to suffer pain
and discomfort all day long. My nerves were
very bad—as weak as they could be; and on the
slightest provocation they would vibrate and
twitch dreadfully. I used to sit and mope about
by myself, thinking of all kinds of unhappy
things, and even wandering in my mind ; and it
surprised those who knew how even-tempered I
used to be to find that I became cross and ill-
grained over nothing. But that all comes from
the liver, I believe, for ever since mine was put
right by Clements Tonic I have been an entirely
different man.”
“What induced you to resort to the use of
Clements Tonic ? Was it recommended to you ?”
“Yes; somebody was telling me about it, and
I thought it would not be a bad plan to see if
what was said was true, and I soon discovered
that I had not been misled, for by the time I had
taken about three bottles of Clements Tonic I
knew instinctively that my recovery was assured.
And when you hear that I had gone from thirteen
stone to ten stone you can guess how delighted I
was to know that I had got something at last that
would surely save me. Yes; there was a little
more than the frame of me left, and I was just as
feeble as I looked. How could I expect to be
otherwise with the appetite I had ? Why, some
days I could not eat anything at all, and would
actually sicken at the sight of food ; but I cannot
say I was anything like that after Clements Tonic
had been given a chance of showing what it was
made of. No, indeed ; the tables were turned in
a very decided manner in that respect, for I could
soon eat anything that was put before me, and
didn’t I feel easier after meals compared
to what I used to! No feelings in the
stomach as if it were full of wind, no cramp-
ing pains there, and I didn’t feel as if my clothes
were too tight for me, as I had done. But those
were really small matters when placed in line
with the severe headaches that I had to endure
every day until it was my good fortune to be
brought in touch with Clements Tonic; and
when that happened—well, the relief I gained
was wonderful. It was not only relief from
headaches that I got, though, but, later on, an
absolute cure; and another thing which made
me glad I stuck to Clements Tonic for a while
was the fact that I lost all those fits of giddi-
ness that used to attack me. Yes, I used to
feel awfully strange sometimes, as if the room
was spinning round, and for a brief space I
would remember nothing. Once Clements Tonic
checked those horrible sensations they have
never since occurred again. I became evenly
balanced in mind and steady in nerves, which
showed that Clements Tonic strengthens the
brain as well as the body, and that accounts
for my sleeping so well, and also for ceasing to
worry and to get irritable at trifles. Those of
my friends who had seen me in agony so long,
and who used to give pitiful glances at me when
I was wasting away, were spellbound with
amazement at the work Clements Tonic had
done; and the best of it is that I have remained
cured ever since ! ”
“ Have I your permission to print this state-
ment?”
“You may publish it in any way it pleases you,
for I’ve said nothing but the rdain truth.”
JOHN BERLIN,
Subscribed and declared at Balmain this eighth day of November, one thousand nine hundred
and four, before me, GEO. M. MARSH, J.P.
DRUNKARDS
CUBED .
SECRETLY
ANY LADY CAN DO
IT AT HOME.
COSTS NOTHING
hf
•• TO TRY Gone Mad from Whisky.
WE ARE GIVING AWAY FREE SAMPLES of the
World-Renowned EUGRASY
FREE.
YOU MENTION
THIS PAPER.
We will send you Sample and Booklet on receipt ol
6ef. for postage. This is a genuine offer.
Address — THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICEB.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to—JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
! Calvert’s
| 20 % Carbolic Soap,
* It is also pleasant and refreshing for
) bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
> against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
>Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng,
A
(WORD
TO THE
WISEi
ACKING
Pleases People Who are
Particular, for boots polished with
Crozine keep soft, stay black, and look
well ALWAYS, besides are cleanly to
b. wear.
I CROZINE is the popular liquid
black—absolutely free from acids
[easily applied—imparting a correct
black polish of unequalled dura-
bility. It improves leather, and is
not itself affected by dampness and
will not smut nor soil the clothing.
At Boot Shops the world over.
The Genuine is Hauthaway's.
Made only by
0. L. HAUTHAWAY & SONS, Inc.
BOSTON, MASS., U. S. A.
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS, Ltd.
London, England.
gdh
r Oatine
FOR AUSTRALIAN WOMEN.
There never was a toilet preparation
so suitable for Australian use as
OATINE, the great English face
cream.
It is free from animal fat and cannot go
bad, however great the heat. It contains no
dangerous mineral salt and doesn’t grow hair.
It cleanses the pores, removing dirt and
dust that soap and water cannot reach, and
keeps the skin smooth and soft.
Oatine will enable any Australian woman
to keep the fresh, clear complexion of youth
through the hot Australian summers. _ ,
First put on the market a year ago it is
already the favourite face cream with English
ladies. Men use it too after shaving, for it
soothes and heals the skin. Price 1/3 a dainty
jar, or 2/6 larger size holding four times as
much.
At all chemists, stores, etc., through-
out Australia. Get a jar to-day.
£5
PER WEEK EARNED easily
We want reliable Agents and Can
vassers to take up sole district Agencies
for sale of our Phonographs, Hand-
sewing machines, Watches, Musical
Goods, Medical Works, Racing and
Field Glasses, Boot and Shoe and Harness Home Repair-
ing Kits, Novelty Glass Churns and other fast selling
novelties, at cheapest prices in Australia. Address
(naming this paper)-UNIVERSAL SUPPLY CO., 460
George St., Bydney.


The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World
For over 50 Years
Obtainable
from all Tobacconists.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
with treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
100yds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price .. £0 8 9
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. .. .. £0 13 9
3 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price .. .. .. .. .. ... .. £0 15 0
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Pair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
Digestive Juices
What becomes of the precious
digestive juices when you flush
out your bowels with cascara,
jalap, sedlitz powders, aperient
water and the old fashion pill?
Why it’s flushed out along with
the rest of the bowel contents.
It’s wasted; washed right away
from the very place it s most
needed. Reuter’s Little Pills don’t
flush out, don’t purge, don’t weak-
en, nor upset your stomach. They
don’t waste the precious digestive
juices needed for to-morrow's
work. No, they act like exercise.
They build up and strengthen
the bowel muscles,- so that they
expand and propel the matter on
its way. They set the hundreds
of tiny cells inside your bowels to
work drawing up nourishment
from your food.
Reuter’s Soap will make your
skin soft.
CHARACTER
IS DESTINY
AND Astrology is the best means by which we
can. learn the real character, also all the
opportunities and possibilities of this life. Send
date of birth and Is. in stamps for a TEST
HOROSCOPE calculated and written by R.
Herschell, who has Supplied Horoscopes to the
late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Mr. W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
Money returned if Horoscope incorrect.
R. HERSCHELL ( of London)
Box 3, Hawthorn, Victoria.
Private Address— Woodville, Mt. Albert.
lAskYour Stationer for aSampleof|
MAKER
TO |
IWILUAM MITCHELL’Si
THE I
KING|
21 WILLIAM
10 MITCHELL’S
CD IST CLASS SHOULDER
N 29. First Class Shoulder Pen
the Original quauiv bvThe Original maker
fgdh
OSTRICH PLUITES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
NATURAL OSTRICH FEATHER BOAS, 21/- Length, 11 yds
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Bwanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
fgd
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK OF NATURE and Illus-
trated Marriage Guide by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over 50
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana ; Pipino Hot ; Rush
for the Spoil ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-to-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. The Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamkron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise: Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. That Rascal Gustave, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Dream Book, Is.
Georgette, Is, post 1/3. The Cuckold, Is ; post 1/3.
Hoffman’s New Conjuring Entertainment, Is 3d.
Ideal French Art Studies, 5 parts, 10s. Zingara
Gipsy Fortune Telling Cards, Love. Business,
Futurity, and with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage,
Is. Ovid’s Art of Love, 2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s
Plain Home Talk, 20th Century edition, very
latest, 124 S pages, over -100 colored plates and
engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine, Is. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s 6d. Aris-
totle, 3s 6d. New Tricks with Coins, Is. Phren-
ology, Is. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Stolen
Sweets, 2s. Lightning Calculator, Is. Minstrel
Show, jokes, speeches, etc.. Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is ; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
/l/VO ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN, special
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALEALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nerves, Debility, Lost Power, Bestore Lost
Manhood, and Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nerves.
They secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes, 6s. & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
n l nnn rumc Dll I G Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
ESL.UUU uUrIC, r ILLO. Gravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and all Blood
Disorders. BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43/6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
_i_ uinmnn Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 23/6.
WG3K WOmCn Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
Liver Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches : 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE ; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE ;
111 HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N. 2.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ** Office.
ASTHMA CURE
BHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by dll Chemists.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail you,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
fghfghf
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fret, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 M G.P.0. , SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
Uldll ZF rheumatic
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure. K Hid
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheuraatistn that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 2/9 per box..
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,,
London. England
GOUT
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALOPERMA-SOAP ••• KALOPERMA-JELLY * KALOPERMA-POWDER
m
m
m
: !
*■
->d
%
mm
-■■/
id
Wf!
3
$
kaloderma
-GiaHtf*y«schu>zh
F WOLFF
&50HN
Karl:
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Sole Agents*
LOHMANN & CO.,
.Melbourne CEL Sydney,
HOLLOWAY S PILLS
ƒgdhfdghfdgh
fdghfgdh
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as "run-down ”cr “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo* 1 * welcome relief
in a very short time.
V
1


VICTORIA
Collins & S wa nsfonS'?Melbourne^* -
WEST. AUSTRALIA [f L
3955397 Hay St Perm ft(l
QUEENSLAND (f.V
Queen & Edward St?
NEW ZEALAND
H 65143 Queen St. Auckland.
18-3 LambtonQuay.Wellincjton.
2365233 High S\ Christchurch
Princes 5 DowlingS'? Dunedin^
m
r/
/
9
/
CORNER, CEQRcf st sydH^
©©©©©©ggo©ftom
21 If its from ||
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
Write the
store neoresA
you.
©©©©©©©©©©»©©
AH Goods are sold for CASH ONLY, and are delivered
Free on receipt of remittance.
Write for a FREE FULLY-ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
&he STEWART DAWSON advertising' is distinguished from
most others by the omission o/ ** glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Goods; then yon will be fully satisfied.
FASHIONABLE BAMBOO BANGLES.
No. E96So—9et. Gold .. £1 17s 6d.
Size Larger ~ .. £2 ss.
Size Smaller „ .. £1 7s Cd.
No. F9sss—Handsome 9et. Gold Plain and Fancy
Eope Twist Bangle, £2 ss.
StuMjS!
i"*
No. G8479—15ct. Gold Bangle, Set 1 Diamond and
2 Sapphires or Eubies, £8 10s.
No. Gso23—Exceptionally Pretty Cinnamon Brown Topaz
and Pearl Bracelet, 9ct. Gold, £2 7s 6d.
No. FsBll—lsct. Gold and Fine Pearl and Euby Bangle, £9 10s
No. G 2039 —9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bracelet, 2 Sapphires
and 1 Eose Diamond in Centre, £3 3s.
No. F4553—15ct. Gold and Fine Quality Pearl Bracelet, £lO 10s
If with Diamonds and Sapphires, £lB 10s.
No. G2Bls—9ct. Gold New Style Knot Bangle, £2.
No. F6B3—9ct. Gold Engraved Band Bracelet, £sfc
No. 137—9 ct. Gold Boat Set, Pearl and Sapphire Doublet
Bangle, with Fancy Wire Edging, £3.
No. G4B6l—9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £2 15s.
No. 142— 9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in Morocco
Case, £3 10s.; Massive 15cb. Gold, £0 6s. ; Extra Heavy,
£7 10s., £8 10s. ; Extra Heavy, £7 55., £Blos., £lolos.
No. 143.—0 ct. Gold Curb and Padlook Bangle,
in Morocco Case, £2 155.; 15ct. Gold, £5.
No. 144—9 ct. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, in
Morocco Case, £2; 15ct. Gold, £3 15s.
No. 134A—15ct. Gold and Pine Opal Half-Hoop Blacelet,
£lO 10s. ; a Cheaper Style, £6 10s.
No. G264l—9ct. Gold and Pearl Set Bangle, £3 10s.
No. F7642—The Latest Style in Loose Link Bangles ; 9ct, Gold, Three Row,
£3 10s.; Pour Row, as shown here, £4 4s.
ES24s—9ct. Gold Curb
Chain and Padlock
Bracelet, in Case,
£3.
.
No. E966S—9cfc. Gold Curb and Padlock Bangle, £2 los.
No. G 3284 —9ct. Gold Bamboo Bangle, £2 6s.
Larger Sizes for 555. and 635.
No. F9ss4—Very Strong and Handsome Plaited
Gold Bangle, 9ct., £2 10s.
No. GB437—9ct. Gold Bracelet, Set Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3 3s.
No. 149A—15ct. Gold and Fine Diamond Set Band Bangle, £5
No. 794 —0c b. Gold Trellis Work Bangle, £2 7s 6d.
No. Gl722—Fine Gold Bangle, Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Diamonds, and Sapphires, £2l.
The Ever-Popular Nellie Stewart Bangle, made in four sizes.
9ct. Gold, £2 10s, £3 10s, £4 4s, £5;
15ct. Gold, £4, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 IQs,
llliiliillllllllllllllll
No. 02619—15 ct. Gold and Fine Pearl Scroll and Oircl
Bracelet, with 3 Sapphires, £7 10s.
No. F9ssB—New and Stylish 9ct. Gold Bangle, with
Safety Chain, £1 15s.
No. F9557—9ct. Gold and Pearl
Bracelet, £2.


The scene of the sin was laid on a
between Sydney and Hobart. Howard Norfolk
Tudor de Jersey (he looked imposing enough to
be called that) was going across to marry a nice
girl with money, when the widow fixed him with
her brown eye. She was young and fairly good-
looking, and she got mashed on Howard Norfolk
Tudor de Jersey, and resolved to carry him by
storm. She hung on to him so much the first
evening and all the next day that he couldn’t even
get a smoke. The second evening he felt that he
would die if he didn’t escape from her smile and
her soft white hands, and in despair he asked the
captain to give him a small boat and a biscuit and
a bottle of water, and turn him adrift in the
Straits. The captain heard the story with sym-
pathy, and undertook to make everything right.
Late that evening he got a chance to tell the widow
that Howard Norfolk Tudor de Jersey was
the resident doctor at the Sydney leper station,
that he was never allowed on board a steamer
unless he had been fumigated and could show two
certificates attesting that the disease hadn’t yet
broken out upon him, and that his bedding was
always burned after he went ashore. The last
day of the trip Howard Norfolk Tudor de Jersey
smoked his cigar in peace. When the widow left,
her clothes were divided as spoil by the
stewardesses. She had rubbed so many of her
lovely costumes against Howard Norfolk Tudor
that she abandoned them all in terror, and went
ashore dressed only in her boots, a long mackin-
tosh, a powerful odor of disinfectants, and a six-
penny hat, purchased from a steerage passenger
who had never seen de Jersey.
Britisb=H«stralasian
S'
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PfSf'F' POST FREE, £1 per year,
* 1 ; n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
O o<»
er:
a
it
£3
m
h SM
m
a
m
8S
C!5!
iff
*3
1#
m
w^>
«M
’SJc
Name
4K
Address
GET THIS BOOK!
It is worth its weight in gold to WEAK
MEN and Sufferers from Debility.
It is the weak man’s guide and friend, and if you suffer and have not read it, you have missed
the best of all opportunities to inform yourself on your condition, ... It describes
the ailments that do the most to make a man miserable— those ailments that UNMAN
him and make him unfit for the every-day battles of life. It is profusely illustrated, showing how
we apply Electricity to cure this complaint.
You will notice on the left of this paragraph a COUPON; write in your name and address,
tear the Coupon and Book out of this advertisement and post it to us to-day. We will send the Book
by return post—closely sealed and postage paid. ... It describes in careful detail
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S Electric Belt
the most famous of all patented remedies. Dr.. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is guaranteed in
every case undertaken. It never fails to cure when recommended. ... To the men who have defied
the revenging power of Nature and overstepped the bounds of prudence ; men who, from the result
of wear and tear upon the machinery that creates the Vital Force of the body, have become weak,
puny, pervous, and dyspeptic ; men who are lacking in confidence and ambition, and those who are
suffering from Pains in the Back, Shoulders, or Chest, Weak Kidneys, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lum-
bago, Varicocele, Rupture, and the many other evidences of decay of the vital force, WE OFFER
AID. We can cure you with Nature’s great power—ELECTRICITY, and make you feel well and
strong again. A means of restoring youthful vigor is priceless. Nothing in this world is worth
more to a man who lacks this element, and here is THE remedy within the reach of all sufferers.
CURES ARE THE REAL PRO OP!
Mr. PETER H. PETERSEN, of Princess Street, CLEVELAND, Q., writes: “Before wearing your Belt I had
been suffering for over eight years with pains in my back and hips ; I had been to many doctors, rubbed in gallons of liniment used poul-
tices and plasters and everything else I heard of, but could not get relief, and gradually grew worse. I had been urged by my’ wife to try
your Belt, but I did not believe it would do what you claimed it would, so would not try it. My wife, however, unbeknown to me secured
your Belt, and I was induced to try it. Many a time have I blessed the day that I did. for in ten days I could feel myself improving and
m less than three months I was cured 1 That was over eighteen months ago, and have not been troubled since.”
Mr. G. TiALBEISCH, of GANMAiN, N.S.W., writes: “ Dear Sirs, —When I first got your Belt I became dissatisfied
after using it a few times. Probably I expected too much in too short a time, so I obtained some medicine and left the Belt off. The
medicine, however, did me no good, so I determined to again adopt the Belt, and I have always been glad since. This was two years
ago, and lam still well and strong, having been completely cured. I hope other sufferers will be as successful.”
ADVICE AND CONSULTATION FREE.
If you are near one of our offices, CALL FOR FREE ADVICE and Personal Consultation. IF YOU CAN-
NOT CALL, tell us where you live, and we will send you testimonials from cured patients in your vicinity. . . .
Now that you have read this advertisement, do not fail to send for our Book. . . . The Book and a Free
Diagnosis cost you absolutely nothing. . . . WRITE OR CALL TO-DAY.
The Dr. McLaughlin Go., 100 W Market-street, Sydney.
. tffLUAU CHARLES CfU«r«RD
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
Horse, Is 6<5. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanic’s
"Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. _Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
Sb 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2a. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry* 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniquy’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
'Sd and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
for the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
fgdh
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.'*
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Oomplete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Mahers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s 6d.
Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taught,
Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide, 5s 6d
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D®“ Established SO Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT
■ ♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
remit in stamps, money order, or
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 33 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf.’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 1.00 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
COCKLE’S
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS.
Ido not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."—Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London
b FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family
Jl\e Xarjcet describes-it.as—
“ Mr. Benger’s admirablt
preparation.”
V/je British Medical Journal
says —
“ Benger’s Food has by its
excellence established a
reputation of its own.”
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
fdhfgd
FOOD
For INFANTS,
INVALIDS
» nd AGED.
Benoer’s fooD is sold in Tins
by Chemists, &c. everywhere.


There is a lot of curiously useless and
irrelevant information to be acquired at Premier
Bent’s meetings. Last week, he broke away into
sudden reminiscences while explaining the policy
of the Vic. Government to a large meeting, and
mentioned that, on early Bendigo, 50 years ago,
he had seen sheep’s entrails thrown round a
parson’s neck. What recalled the entrails to his
memory just then nobody knows. Bent just
remembers things suddenly—dogs, comic songs,
entrails, old Joe Millerisms, pig’s cheek, or any-
thing else. And when he remembers a thing he
mentions it, unless he is in church.
“I really think,” saida suburban dress-
maker, “ I’ll have to put a notice in my window—
‘No corpulent customers need apply.’ Somehow
nearly all the bulky ladies seem to imagine they
can have a dress made out of a scrap of material
that would hardly do for a very slender woman.
And there’s always the same cry : ‘ Now make it
Jaice and full, won’t you, Miss Wailboan ?’ Talk
about making bricks without straw ! Tailors
have all the luck. Their customers don’t seem to
care a reel of cotton about the quantity of
material used. I had two real dairy-fed dames in
the other day. They brought a bit of stuff that
might have made a decent dress for one of them,
but it had to do for both, and to be ‘ made full,’
as usual. Well, we skimped and pieced the
material all we knew, and just managed to make
it cover the magnificent areas without bursting.
And what do you think one of them had the cheek
to say at the finish ? ‘ We’ll take any pieces you
have left over. There ought to be enough to
make a frock for little Doris ’ l ”
F. Anstey, legislator, puts forth a work
called “Monopoly and Democracy, or the Vic-
torian Land Question.” It is enriched by valu-
able diagrams and local plans. He cites a rich
part of the West, the Garden of Victoria, includ-
ing Ballarat and Ararat. There are 1500 fewer
families in occupation, and 11,000 less people,
than there were in 1871; of 4000 square miles,
nine-tenths is owned by 60 families. In the
Wimmera there are two million more acres held
than in 1881, and 1500 fewer holdings. Popula-
tion has diminished by thousands. One diagram
shows a piece of old Gippsland, 2620 square miles,
m Maffra, Bosedale, Traralgon, and Avon.
There were more farm holdings, with more land
under cultivation, 25 years ago than to-day.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITS
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Missing: Friends.
MARTHA SEIDEWITZ, who left Sydney in 1900 for
* Gape Town by White Star liner to reside with her
ro?kher, is requested to communicate with Messrs.
GORDON and GOTCH, Melbourne, Australia. Anyone
supplying information of her whereabouts will be
rewarded.
T>ELL. WILLIAM, JOHN and MAR-
GARET BELL, brothers and sister of
JAMES BELL, of Port Elizabeth, South Africa,
Builder, call or send address to undersigned.
Important.
LAURENCE, SON and MACDONALD,
Solicitors,
Bank Qhambers, 122 Pitt-street, Sydney,
w ANTED—
TED CORNWALL,
of Eketahuna, N*Z„
TO; WRITE TO ADA.
Business Announcements.
hfgd
“■Songeuse ” Asti,
folio size Photo,
at 1/9.
A CATALOGUE 0F....
PARISIAN ART
PHOTOS
With 700
Illustrations
is sent Post Free against 2/6 in
Money Order or Stamps of any
country ! Sample Collections of
Photos, and Post Cards at 5/-,
/O/-, 201-, etc.
A. H. WEISS,
23 RUE D’ENGHIEN, PARIS.
A MIRACLE OF CHEAPNESS
MAGAZINE CAMERA
And Photo Outfit
Complete with Chemicals, Dry Plate, Print-
ing Frame and Book of Instructions.
fgd
2/6 the Lot —Only 2/6
and we pay carriage.
h
PHOTOGRAPHY is
one of the most
fascinating hobbies,
but hitherto the cost
of the apparatus and
the trouble of manag-
ing it have kept many
from indulging in the
art. How, however,
with a Quarter-Plate
Magazine Camera and
Outfit of chemicals to
be had for the mar-
vellously low price of
2s. 6d., photography
may be adopted by
anyone. What can be
more interesting than
taking portraits of
your friends, views of
places you visit, pic-
tures of all kinds and
snap shots of quaint events and curious characters? The
lens is of good quality, the plate carrier exposes one plate
after anothe■ without risk of failure,and the time and instan-
taneous shutter is very simple and reliable. The outfit in-
cludes Developing and Fixing Chemicals, Dry Plate and
Book of Instructions, fully explaining how to use the
Camera, how to take pictures, how to develop, fix, print, tone
and mount, also directions for enlarging and bromide work
Having purchased at auction at far less than cost prices
the entire stock of an importer, we can sell these goods at
this hitherto unheard of figure. There are only about one
hundred Printing Frames, and these will be given free with
the first one hundred orders; you should, therefore, not
delay. Send 2s. 6d. at once by postal note of any State to
The Union fflfg. &. Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FITS CURED
Prom the first dose of Ozerine fits cease. It has cured
perm inently the very worst cases cf Epilepsy when
overy other remedy had failed. English Prico 4/6
and 11 Thousands of Testimonials.
OP A.ZITI CHEMISTS STORES, ETC-
WIIOT.rSAI.I; AGENTS:
SAYERS, ALLPORT & POTTER, SYDNEY.
Prepared by I. W. Nicholl, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
25 High Street, Belfast Ireland,
This Very Fine
Gent.’s Lace
Balmoral for
16/6
In box calf, glace kid and patent leather —all at
the one price. You’ll find no boot in Australia
give better satisfaction at the price. Welted
soles—in this and all the newest shapes.
Higher grades at higher prices.
Postage Charges —When remitting add these charges to cover
"™ postage—Victoria, 1/- ; other States, 1/6.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne,
And at VIC.
1 (SL 3 Errol St., Nth. Melbourne,
303 Chapel St., Prahran.
gfdh
fdg
ROYAL™
'."
SHOW
Tues., March 26th, to Wed., April 3rd, 1907
HUNTING AND TROTTING EXHIBITIONS.
GRAND PARADE of HORSES and CATTLE DAILY.
NEW CATTLE PAVILION.
NEW CARRIAGE PAVILION.
NEW DOG PAVILION.
The Biggest Show in Australasia
EXCURSION FARES ALL LINES.
ADMISSION ONE SHILLING.
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
The HEALING CURRENTS of ELECTRICITY
We want you to call and see
this Wonderful New Electrical
Contrivance.
It is better than any other
Medical Battery or Belt you have
ever seen or heard of.
It sends coursing through your
veins the healing currents of life-
giving Electricity.
It is good for all Nervous Dis-
orders— for Lumbago, Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, and for these
alone it is worth many times more
than an Electric Belt.
Price 35/=
If you cannot call, write for one;
to be sent to you.
We will refund money to any
dissatisfied buyer after a trial.
BOOKLET FREE.
hfdg
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
“My
Opticians,'
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 Ov.ORGE ST,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
The Demon Rattle Box TricKo
One of the cleverest tricks we
stock. Coins, Brooches, Itinys,
etc., can be made to vanish from
the box after they have been
placed inside in full view of the
company. They are heard to
rattle inside the box, when suddenly the sound
ceases, and the missing: articles aßp found on the
other side of the room. Indisjwneable to a con-
jurer. Price, with full directions, f/9, post
free anywhere.
vi
The “JoKer” Ti-icK: Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
cl os ed,
and, to
the
amaze-
ment of
h
your friends, upon re-opeming the box tbe matches
have completely disappeared. A' great joke on
'cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if tbe owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and!
can be carried in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7ti. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holdk 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Watch liogc. post free
anywherp for 1/-.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES. Puzzle Pocket
Knives, best Steel Blade, Buff Horn Ha ndles, Spring
Back. Puzzle to shirt as well as to open. A j
splendid Rabbiters’ Knife. Two Sizes, 2/2 and I
2/8, post free anywhere.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing Show.
Your friends grotes-
quely photographed—
stout people look thin
—thin people look
stout. The Laughing
Camera furnishes all
this, and more. By
getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons,
trains, trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures are
witnessed. All grow
fat from laughter. It
The Laughing Camera
is well and strongly made, and cannot get oat of
order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Magic Ball
or Egg TricK.
The ball or egg placed In
the pedestal at word of
command passes through
the table, and is found
underneath, while the box is shown
empty. Full directions enclosed.
Post Free anywhere for 1/*
Write tor Price List B.
NEWYORK
13 , i
NOVELTY COHPANY
BOX 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
9 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
H. L. HUTCHINSON
Amusements.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Under the Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
A Magnificent Reception nightly accorded to Mr.
JULIUS KNIGHT and J. C. WILLIAMSON’S New
English Dramatic Company, in the Picturesque
Romantic Melodrama—
ROBIN HOOD.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
H E AT R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST THREE NIGHTS of the SEASON.
THREE FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of BLAND
HOLT’S Elaborate Production of the Great Drury
Lane Spectacular Drama,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES as USUAL.
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
.. Mr. J. S. RYAN.
CRITERION
Direction
EVERY EVENING at 8,
The Great Historical Australian Sensational Drama,
THE KELLY GANG,
Interpreted by an Exceptionally Powerful Company of
Australian Actors and Actresses.
Popular Prices—3s, 2s, Is.
Plan at Elvy’s.
"|"HE 27TH ANNUAL CARNIVAL OF
WIRTH BROTHERS’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
OPENING,
SATURDAY, MARCH 16,
IN A VAST CITY OF SNOW WHITE TENTS.
EXHIBITION GROUND (PRINCE ALFRED PARK),
SYDNEY’S FAIRYLAND.
SEVEN SHOWS FOR ONE TICKET.
The Marvellous Herberts. Wonderful Philippina.
Dashing Mav ltingling. Graceful Leonia.
Daring O’Briens. Also, AMAZING HUGH LLOYD,
the Most Marvellous Man on Earth.
7 Shows in One. 7 Trained Elephants. 7 New Zealand
Horses. 7 Ferocious Tigers. 7 Great Aerial Acts.
7 Champion Riders. 70 Horse Show.
WIRTHS’ GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
SEVEN GREAT SHOWS FOR ONE TICKET.
MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS,
HOLIDAYS.
AND
Reserved Chairs, 4s, at Paling’s ; Back Chairs, 3s;
American Folding Back Chairs and Carpet Seats, 2s ;
iallery, Is ; Children Half-price except to Gallery.
ONDERLAND CITY, BOpT D I
(The Coney Island of Australia).
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. William Anderson.
SWEPT BY OCEAN BREEZES.
JACK PRENDEGAST,
Australian Rough-Rider, with his Buckjumping Horses.
BEN HUR,
The Australian Pocket Hercules and Wrestler.
KING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES,
rhe Cream of Vaudeville Novelties. _
Fun-Producing Devices Without End.
yriCTORIA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE.
POST MASON,
AND VAUDEVILLE COMPANY,
PLAYING TO RECORD HOUSES THIS WEEK.
TAM WORTH, WARWICK, TOOWOOMBA
to follow.
FRED DAWSON, Representative.
rIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
ING and BENSON. London’s Favorite Entertainers.
Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
Mr. WILL LOCHRANE. Miss PHYLLIS FAY.
ITTLE LILLY GRIMSHAW. Mr. HAROLD REEVES.
RED. RUSSELL & Coster Joe, Ventriloquial Humorist,
reat Success of GRACEFUL GRACIE GRAHAME.
Mr. FRANK G. KING, THREE GIBSON GIRLS,
[ISS OASSIE WALMER. MISS FANNY POWERS.
SELBO, the King of Clubs. THE RAY SISTERS.
■\PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
■/ Solo Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
BRINN, Juggler, Cannon Manipulator.
IGNOR ANTONIOS’ Troupe of Performing Dogs
nd Monkeys. FRED CURRAN, Singer Quaint Songs.
LEONIE DIXON, Serio-Comic and Dancer.
HARLENE & CHARLENE, Drawing-room Entertainers.
CORA CASELLI, Song and Dance Artiste.
HARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, American Character
Actor, in the One-Act Play, AT THE TELEPHONE.
lan at Allan’s. OS’ PRIOES—3s,- 2s 6a, 2s, Is.
J|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBpURNE.
* Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
HURS., MARCH 14th, FRIDAY, 15th, SAT., 16th,
MON., 18th, LAST 4 NIGHTS in Melbourne of
tr. J. C. Williamson’s Pantomime Co. in the
Brilliantly Successful Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
ly the Strongest Combinations of High-class Artists
ever before an Australian audience.
lan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
lEW THEATRE
Lessee ..
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
.. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FIFTH WEEK,
Iright and Diverting Story of Australian Station Life.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co., in
the Great Drama of Australian Life,
IE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
Depicting station life in the days of Ben HalL
3e s—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s, Menzies* & The Grand.
iRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, a Unique Attraction by
E WILLOUGHBY-WARD PREMIER LONDON
COMEDY CO., including Miss Grace Palotta, in
MR. HOPKINSON.
£&■ PRICES—6s., 35., Is.
Plan at Allan’s.
Five acres covered with the
WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES
. . . AT . . .
“DREAMLAND,”
ST KILDA.
OPEN DAILY 2 to 11 p.m. ADMISSION 6d.
E. S. SALAMBO, Managing Director.
Wanted.
PERIENCED CATTLE-BUYER,
Single, Wanted for Small Station, Assist
irking. Salary, £2 weekly and keep,
mces required. „ „ „
“ Bovo,” Box 308, G.P.O.


Zam-Buk
SOAP
Gives .
Strength .
and Vitality .
to the .
Skin’s Functions,
brings out.
the Skin’s .
Natural Health .
and Beauty, .
and promotes.
a Skin free from
Pimples
Rash .
Blackheads
Sallowness
Roughness
Redness .
and Blemishes
of any ....
Nature.
*«
To Both Mother (& Child ”
It, gives a Lovely, Soft, Refined Skin.
f. £ ng|t. H
tf A {$ Y
•:•■- . . * ■ :
■- • -
9 *
■sv'M
m,
it -i
ass
■ ' ■
" . \
I % I m I 1 j
1 mm
mKKKm
mmsamm
IS
■
*1
'
■I
:
:
lllillwii
Hi HI
lllllii
■II
— ■
Zam-Buk Soap van bo obtained from Chemists and stores throughout Australasia or mm
*>e had direct from THE ZAM-BUK MFC. CO., 3S Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Zam-Buk
SOAP
Used daily in the
N ursery, Bath
or Toilet will not
alone promote
Skin Health and
Skin Beaut)/, .
but will make,
the Skin proof .
against....
Germ and. . .
Insect life.
With ....
Zam-Buk Soap .
the Skin .
receives the .
best treatment
possible and a
more healthy .
condition . .
is assured. .
Business, Robbery, etc.
Fhndermo ”: Victorian Western District
potato and onion growers are cursing what they call
their luck. Season before last onions realised from £2O
to £3O a ton, and the farmers who had a few acres of
them reaped large cheques. Double the area was put
under onions last year, and the cookies all expected to be
millionaires at least. The market, of course, was
swamped, and the price went as low as 15s. Potatoes,
not being over-plentiful, realised over £5 a ton last year ;
this year the cookies have swamped the spud market
also, and the ruling price is 30s. Several of Melbourne’s
principal produce merchants recently combined forces,
and the cocky has a vague idea that the combine is in
some way responsible for the poor returns he is getting
for his spuds. And that’s probably the fact, though
there’s a larger reason. Mostly the cocky is a poor
Protectionist; he’s willing to put a duty on the stuff he
produces, but he isn’t willing to put a duty on other
things that other people would produce if they had a
duty ; so the other people are not here to produce any-
thing, and not being here they can’t eat the cocky’s
onions and potatoes, wherefore an extra ton or two glut
the market.
* * * *
Byron Bay (N.S.W.) has started what is said
to be a Drand-new Australian industry—the manufacture
of sand-lime bricks. Lime is placed in a grinding mill—
a revolving crucible, in which are several heavj’ cannon-
balls. Then sand and the refined lime, in given propor-
tions, are put in a pug-mill. The mixture passes into a
kneading machine, and, should specially colored bricks be
desired, the necessary pigment is added. Every grain of
sand is enveloped in a coating of lime, thus becoming
adhesive. The mixture is put in a press and shaped into
bricks, which are pressed (1201 b. to the inch) for ten
hours, and are then ready for immediate use. Bricks
which were in the press at 3 p.m. one day were
being turned into a chimney next morning. Sand is
emphatically one of the great natural resources of Aus-
tralia ; it blows into the soup of scores of places that
don’t possess either a wearable stone for building, or a
serviceable clay ; so the new sort of brick, which is
alleged to improve with age, seems to have a future.
* * W *
A S’African business man lately told Customs
Minister Bill Lyne that he had been on the point of
buying a large consignment of N.S.W. graded butter,
but the agents told him he would have to pay for the
grading, whereupon he dropped the deal and got his
fat from Argentina. As the Federal Government charges
nothing whatever for grading butter, those agents were
apparently keeping up the butter agents’ smellful repu-
tation by trying to grab a purely fictitious grading-fee.
And in the end they grabbed nothing.
“N.L.” : Re manufacture of artificial rubber
from wheat and hog saliva (B. 14/2/’O7). Alas! how many
of us, in our school days, sneaked wheat from the
domestic store kept for fowls, and chewed it into rubber
without suspecting that we were on the track of a mighty
new manufacture ! Some of us might have developed into
rubber millionaires if the school teachers hadn’t taken a
fiendish delight in stopping the chewing. This touching
reminiscence supports the assertion that the necessary
moistener need not be of the hog variety, as I may men-
tion that, to the best of my belief and knowledge, I am
not a hog.
* * * *
“J.A.C.”: When the first plague scare laid
hold of Sydney, the municipality arranged to supply dis-
infectants gratis to those who, presumably, were not
very well able to pay for them, and the practice is still
continued. Anybody may take a quart bottle to the
store at the back of the Town Hall, and fill it
with a solution of phenol. All that is as it should
be. But there is another aspect of the transaction.
I have it on authority, which I consider reliable, that
many warehousemen, hotelkeepers, landlords of suites
of chambers, and other plutocratic cadgers, are in the
habit of sending to the store and getting the stuff by
the gallon for nothing. Many of them get more value
in disinfectants than they pay in rates. My informant,
who travels for disinfectants, told me that, the other
day, he visited a big firm, not far from the Town Hall,
from whom he usually got a £5 order. He was on the
point of concluding a deal when a Town Hall employee
dropped in, and put a spoke in his wheel. “ What do
you want to buy that stuff for?” he said to the boss
of the show. “ Send over to our place—you can have
as much as you want for nix.” My friend is retiring"
from disinfection ; he is ruined by municipal competi-
tion.
» * * *
If a recent decision of a Sydney S.M. in a pure-
food prosecution is law, the law is the same old ass,
and needs altering. A customer purchased a tin of jam,
which was found to be decomposed. Proceedings
were taken. The defence was that the tin of jam was
sold as received, and that it was clearly impossible for
the retailer to ascertain whether the contents of a sealed-
up tin were good or bad ; and the defence was upheld.
This decision obviously makes a huge orifice in the
Health Act. Of course, if the manufacturer is a local
man he can be held responsible, but, if he is a foreigner,
he is outside the jurisdiction of the court, so the foreign
man, apparently, can poison Australia with any cheap
horror so long as he seals it up tightly against inspection.
* * * *
The police, who administer the Victorian
Gambling Act, commissioned a Fitzroy auctioneer to
conduct a lottery at the Russell-street police barracks,
the other day. Nominally “ a sale of unclaimed pro-
perty,” stolen and otherwise, it resolved itself into the
vending of numerous pisrs in very deceptive pokes. A
portly “ Matilda,” purchased for £2, was found to consist
mainly of a couple of “ Wagga rugs ” embracing an empty
oil drum. A plethoric purse brought 255., and its sole
contents turned out to be a second-hand set of false
teeth. If the Christmas goose-club is a prohibited
gamble, what about this, and why doesn’t boss-superin-
tendent O’Callaghan arrest himself?
* » * *
A Warrnambool (Vic.) draper, with fluff where
his conscience ought to be, instead of providing a chair for
every third counter-hand, as stipulated by the Factories
and Shops Act, placed seats on the floor of the shop, and
told the inquiring inspector that they were equally for
employees and customers. Of course, the local honor-
ariums were quite willing to crawl through the dirty
little hole that Fluff thought he had bored in the Act;
but Justice Hood upset that decision and fined Fluff.
* « * m
The Chow in the Northern Territory evades
taxes in every shape and form. A Chow firm in Palmer-
ston has a number of stores in the country, and does a
lot in the mining way. It has numbers of heathens
working on the tribute racket. The tin is sent to
Darwin, and, of course, sold for good coin of the realm.
But John Chinaman pays his workmen in calabashes,
shin plasters, or orders of £1 each. These notes bear no
revenue stamp ; writer saw 300 paid away the other day,
not one of which bore a stamp. How this country does
get robbed by the Celestials, to be sure ! The proverbial
waggon load of apes is not in the running with the Mon-
golian brand of monkey !
J.A.C. : It appears to me that it is about
time that the S3 r dney registry-office thief were dealt
with. One recent Saturday morning a young fellow
went into one of these robbers’dens to'inquire about a
barman’s billet he saw advertised outside. The harpy in
charge was affable. Oh, yes. Nice place. Just suit
you. Must go at once, slid—er —lss., please, and then
111 give you the address and a note to the landlord. The
applicant thought it a trifle steep, but he paid the money,
went to the pub., and started. This was at 10 a.m.
Being an experienced barman, he did his work in a
satisfactory manner, and no fault was found with him,
but, when 11 p.m. came, Mr. Bung gave him 7s. 6d. and
told him he was no longer required—he only wanted a
man for the day, he said. Now, 7s. 6d. is less than it is
usual to pay under such circumstances, but, to avoid any
disturbance, the young man took the sum offered.
On the following Monday he went to the registry-
office and suggested that it might possibly be a
fair thing if the 15s. were returned. The brigandess
was amused, and refused point-blank. He left,
but presently returned, accompanied by the majesty
of the law in the person of a “copper.” Then, seeing-
that he was not doing it for his health, the bush-
rangeress, with a very bad grace, refunded, but deducted
2s. 6d. commission. Half-a-crown on 7s. 6d. —33 per cent,
per diem ; it beatspawnbroking hollow. Ido not mean to
say that there are no respectable, honest registry-offices ;
I do not know of any, but I am far from affirming that
they are non-existent. In the case above cited there was
every appearance of collusion between the registry she-
fiend and the publican, and the fact that there was in the
end only fifteenpence for each of them fills me with joy.
But there ought to be three months for each of them.
• * * *
“K.”: Amongst the last batch of patents
issued locally I note, with alarm, the following :
“ For a new and loud-sounding mouth-organ.”
I write in haste, before the awful thing gets on the mar-
ket, to ask your assistance. I propose to take up sub-
scriptions from all who have suffered from the ordinary
mouth-organ, for the purpose of (a) buying up the
patent, or (ft) hiring someone to slay the inventor, as a
warning to others. I feel sure that nine out of ten of
your readers have'been tormented by this screeching
nuisance, and to them the appalling prospect of a “ loud-
sounding” addition to the already large variety of the
instrument, must be as desolating as it is to me. “ Loud
sounding ”1! Good heavens ! There is a mouth-organ
owned by a small boy in my town which can be heard
fully three-quarters of a mile away ; so what will the
new horror be like ? Failing the suppression of the sin-
ful instrument by these means, 1 intend to form a league
to boycott all storekeepers who stock any sort of mouth-
organ, and all newspapers which advertise them ; and to
refuse to supply food, drink, clothing, or Christian
burial to families in which mouth-organs are tolerated.
Nothing I have ever read in The Bulletin annoyed me
so much as a full-page illustrated advt. of Pick-a-back (or
some such name) mouth-organs, which you printed a
few months ago. I expect you are sorry you did it now.
• • •» *
Even insurance companies become snobbish.
One of the leading companies in Australia always adds
“ Esquire ” to addresses on letters to holders of policies
of £5OO and over. Mere worms, with policies under
£5OO, are “Mister.”
* * * *
“ Goolwa ” : My barber is rather a rare kind of
scavenger. After he had finished ravaging my whiskers,
the other evening, he proceeded to collect the usual
barber-shop debris—hair, shaving-papers, &c., and made
a neat brown paper parcel of the lot. Asked him what
he was so particular about, and this is what he told me.
“ Well, Mister, you see my dustman gave up calling on
me, and so I ’ave to shift me own dirt. First evenin’
there was an unusual lot of tripe about, mostly ’air (it
was Show-time, and the wav-backs were down), an’ so I
made it into a neat parcel like this, intendin’ to take it
’ome to me own dust-box. Well, I goes over to the pub.
after closin’, takin’me parcel with me, and I meets Jim
Hoskins. ’Course we ’ad a couple, me puttin’ me parcel
agin the bar in the meantime. When it’s time to go I
finds it gone. Someone had pinched it. Well, that sets
me thinkin’, and I’ve been leavin’ ’em somewheres every
night since. The tram’s the best place. Why, Mister,
there must be over twenty of these at the tram office
now waitin’ to be claimed. Outside offices ain’t bad. It
wuz a work of art seein’ a caretaker gettin’ away with
one one night."
THE LITTLE HOBART TRADERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sin" no song of palaces a-floatin’ on the sea,
I care not with machinery to toy.
I crave to say a word about the ships that call to me,
The ships I served my time in when a boy.
Those little wooden vessels that were mostly Hobarc-
built—
Sad relics of an industry that’s flown ;
Old memories are Hingin’, from the past—and they are
bringin’
In their wake, a reckless song I long have known.
Come day, go day, while old Fate keeps shovin’ us —
Gawd send pay day—that is our refrain —
Drink up, shipmates ! All the girls are lovin’ us —
Back to dear old Tassy once again.
The little Hobart vessels, they were built of good blue
gum—
(lt was a shipwright’s paradise just then)—
And caulking hammers rattled where to-day we find
them dumb—
And where are they, those Hobart sailormen ?
Their boys took to the water when the ships were build-
ing fast—
But big steel steamships now' are in demand.
no anvils clangin’, no gigantic hammers bangin’—
For your iron ore lies locked up in the land !
Come day, go day ; every day a jolly day ;
Gawd send pay-day—give us sordid pelf!
Drink up, shipmates ! Life is one long holiday—
Let the future hustle for itself !
They travelled ’cross to Maoriland with gum and stringy
bark,
Down whdre the silent Solanders loom high.
The little timber droghers—loaded down to Plimsoll
mark—
They feared not stormy sea nor scowlin’ sky ;
For they were tough and rigid were those little ships of
old-
Strong Hobart vessels, filled with Hobart wares !
They fought a grim old battle, with their brace blocks
all a-rattle
As they struggled bravely round the Traps and Snares 1
Come day, go day, what is there to hurry us 1
Gawd send pay day, and a bite to eat.
Drink up shipmates ! Nothin’ here to worry us
Pay your owin’s with the taups’l sheet!
They battled to Kaipara, where the foamin’ breakers
reach
Far out, and stumble o’er the silver bar.
And some have met their doom upon the dreaded Grave-
yard Beach,
And left their bones where many others are.
Way up in Aratapu, loadin’ greasy.kauri logs,
A-heavin’ on a hand winch—long and strong—
No sign was there of bustle, life was far too short to
hustle ;
But the winch ground out a pessimistic song.
Come day, go day, trouble for the best of us —
Gawd send pay day—some have wealth alway !
Drink up, shipmates 1 D 1 take the rest of us l
We are only livin' for to-day !
The little Hobart vessels once were in the foreign trade,
And travelled far, where bigger vessels go.
And Hobart sailors manned them —sturdy men and un-
afraid—
But where they are to-day I do not know.
They carried goods to London, heatin’ round the blessfed
Horn
(Those enterprising days have slipped away !)
I see big foreign steamers, decked with flags and gaudy
■ streamers ;
But the little Hobart traders—where are they ?
Come day, go day ; we can do the shirkin’ part—
Gawd send pay-day—we must sink or swim !
Drink up, shipmates ! Fools can do the workin’ part
While old Fate stands by a-smiling grim !
The little Hobart traders, they are dead, their star has
set;
Their shadows haunt the rivers and the bays ;
But there are budding sailors in the little Island yet,
And newer ships will come in better days.
I hear the mighty clamor of the days that are to be.
Amidst the hissin’ fury of the steam
I hear big engines turning. I can see the water churning
As the Hobart liners cleave the Derwent stream I
Come day, go day; Time himself is provin’ us —
Gawd send pay-day—work with might and main !
Drink up, shipmates ! While the girls are lovin’ us —
Back to dear old Tassy once again !
W.A.
ALBATROSS.


MICK. SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
Stte LEADING
HOUSE
fgdg
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP.
THE MAINE
Pine
2*
Pule ft parr
The Maine” S.S* Rifle
CAN
T
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight _
12/6
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards 15/-
Postage on one Rifle —Is 3d, N.S.W.; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have takep this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Bain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc ,||y.
NOTICE."
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning; of the Act.
the youngest child and the most aged person.
It is equally beneficial for
B*
fat
SUO
Disinfecting
Fluid
COLORLESB,
FRAGRANT,
NON-rO!3CNOUB.
1/
Pint Bottles.
Oxidants Germicide
Indispensable In all Slok Rooms.
Also 1/- Tins Powder
and 1/-&1/3 Boxes Soap.
. Of all Chemistt and Storekeepers. .
L The “SANITAS” Co., A
Ltd., Llmehouse,
London.
A POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
fdhd
Given
Away
For
CORRECT
ANSWERS
fhgfd
A SQUARE PUZZLE
Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for
our picture postcards, we have devised this
Simple method of advertising with the object
of making our name more widely known and
to introduce our new Catalogue, we offer
you a grand opportunity to display your in-
genuity, and receive the generous reward of a
Silver Watch (Ladies or Gents) or any articles
picked from our catalogue to the value of £i,
for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an im-
pression on your mind that you will
__ be compelled to talk about us to your
friends, and tell them about the extraordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be secured. By this plan, therefore,
we hope to greatly increase the number of our customers without adding to our expenses by awarding as
prizes many thousand pounds worth of Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing.
5
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO,
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows
nine squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place
a number on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a
straight line in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same
figure. Our decision is to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, men-
tion whether you would like Lady’s or Gent's Prize, This is an honest offer made by a responsible firm.
The distance you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal op-
portunity for winning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash.
With your solution of this puzzle send postal note for 3/- for which we will send you six dozen
of the most artistic penny picture postcards you have ever seen. Everybody wants picture postcards, and if
you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances
who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you wish to dispose of. thus you get double the value
for the money you send with an excellent chance of winning a Solid Silver Watch,
Send your answer at once, together with postal note tor 35., and a stamped addressed envelope, so that
we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs, or Miss, and address
your letters very plainly to
ELLISDON & CO., Angel Place, 5 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Beautiful Home Decorations
h
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
‘•OUR FAVORITE” COED EJVAMEI. (Washable) - Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
ete. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOIiMT EVAMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•‘SAPOIiIV” BATH TUB EIVAMEI. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, " SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “SAPOLIN” ALUMINUM ENAMEL, Etc.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, lOd.
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Are You
low spirited
and suffering
from the ex-
cesses of
youth? If so,
Sulphur Bit-
ters will cure
you.
fgdhfgd
Are You
nervous ana
fretty, or in
DELICATE
health? Sul-
phur Bitters
will make a
new person
of you.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
h
INSTRUCTION FREE!!
You oau become a Hypnotist in a to*Jtojj*
time without leaving your home. You
sway the minds of others, control friendsb,
and affection, cure disease and bad habit*
gratily your ambitions and P r ™*uG e *. t '^
ment by the hour. My mammoth IllustxaW
Lesson or Key to Hypnotism which! s«
| free cf charge and postage paid, will teU .
all about this marvelous science. It couta.
beautiful and artistic engravings, and shovs
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Sondfor
it and learn to Hypnotize. Remember, this wonder-
ful book costs you nothing. If you men-
tion this paper, I will also include a large
package of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated literature with-
out charge. A chance of a life • '"*•
Write to-day. Address—
-s*rof. R. H. BARRADEN, aa Pitt St., Sydney
fgdh
ON THE HOP!
Thb Bulletin Office, Sydney
Price 21s.


The NEW WAY.
HOW ANY MEAL CAN BE THOROUGHLY
ENJOYED BY ANY (STOMACH.
Men, as a rule, are first discovered by their enemies. Their antagonists turn
on the searchlight, and the proof of merit will lie in being able to stand the flash.
It was only in this way that Mr. Jones ever knew that dyspepsia was one c*f
Mr. Smith’s worst enemies. Sitting face to face at two-by-four table, he handed
his afflicted friend the bill of fare :
MENU
Oyster Cocktail. Stuffed Olives.
Boston Clam Chowder.
Strained Gumbo.
Sirloin Steak, with Mushrooms.
Roast Beef Hash.
Boiled Ox Tongue, with Sauerkraut.
Lobster a la Newburg.
Baked Pork and Beans.
Combination Crab Salad.
Hot Mince Pie.
Pineapple Fritters.
Mr. Jones ordered a “little of each.”
Mr. Dyspepsia Smith ordered biscuits and a glass of milk. «I had such a big
breakfast this morning, he said, “that I’ll just take a bite to keep you company.”
But Mr. Jones could not be deceived. “ I’m afraid you can’t stand the gleam, Mr.
Smith. Why don’t you say you have dyspepsia, and be done with it 1 You’ll
always have that hungry look, anyhow as long as you have dyspepsia. Now, listen.
My stomach was in just as bad condition as yours at one time, but now I can eat
anything at any time.
Bor instance, this clam chowder, or sirloin steak, or even the lobster, would
be just as welcome to my stomach as your biscuits and milk. You don’t realise how
this dyspepsia business is robbing you of your spirit or your energy and ability to
think quickly. I can t help notice it. You haven’t the cheer and sociability vou
had three months ago. Now I’ll tell you what to do,” and thereat the cheerful Mr.
Jones took a tin from his pocket, and extracted a wee Tabule. “ There ! there is a
tabule that contains an ingredient one grain of which digests 3000 grains of food.
For even the worst dyspeptic it’s the only thing that really gives relief. The reason
is, it relieves the stomach of nearly all the work it has to do, digests everything in
the stomach, and stimulates the gastric juices. I can’t get along without them.
They are DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES. You can get them any-
where for 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.” Yes, it is true DR. SHELDON’S
DIGESTIVE TABULES absolutely stop heartburn, nausea, indigestion, dyspepsia
of the worst type, sour stomach, bloaty feeling, and all eructations and irritation,
and freshen and invigorate the stomach. They cheer you up, and make you get all
the good there is in your food. You will forget you ever had a stomach to worry you.
WARNER’S SAFE CURE.
Why it cures disorders so seemingly different in character as
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Backache
Sciatica
Indigestion
Anosmia
Blood Disorders
Biliousness
Jaundice
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
This is a fairly long list of disorders, but every one of them is caused by defective action of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER.
When the kidneys and liver are working perfectly, it is impossible for anyone to suffer from an;
of the disorders named. In order that this important fact may be realised, the following description
of the work performed by those vital organs is given :
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid,
together with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion
of the solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous, and causes us to suffer from urio
disorders such as Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass?, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost
in adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or some less serious but more painful
illness will result.
The Liver. —In the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, converts
it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood gradually, as the
latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is com-
pletely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are use-
ful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected and the liver remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the kidneys and
liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as Warner’s
Safe Cure. It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that it was necessary to find a
curative agent which would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so
immediately associated in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and after many dis-
appointments, the medicine which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length
discovered. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by
restoring their activity, these vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels,
of the urinary and biliary poisons, the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheu-
matism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion,
Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility.
Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the
reason why cures effected by Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures.
A treatise containing full particulars, and aooounts of many remarkable cures effeoted, even when
hope of recovery was despaired of, will be sent post free, by H. H. Warner and Co., Limited,
Australasian Branch, Melbourne. rgl
The Last Lust.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM wizened, and old, and grey,
A wrinkled shell of the weary flesh;
Love and passion have passed away,
But the lust of the eye burns fierce and fresh,
Warming the ooze of my stagnant blood ;
As through dim panes shines a sunset red,
Tinging the gloom with a rosy flood
From the fading fires of a day that’s dead.
From a lofty scarp on a mountain’s flank
I view a valley below me spread,
With the Day asleep upon bower and bank,
Where the river winds like a silver thread ;
Mid the corn and pasture and clustered vine
I drink deep draughts from the sensuous scene,
Slaking my soul at sixty-nine
At a spring that welled not at seventeen.
To me the glory of sunset skies,
And the dawn’s first flush as the stars grow dim,
Are more than the love in a maiden’s eyes,
Or the faultless curves of a god-like limb.
Speak ye of women and wine no more,
Of maudlin Bacchus of husky speech.
I have learned what the staggering billows roar
In their drunken play on a lonely beach.
The fool hath babbled to me of death,
The priest hath muttered of hell and fear,
The maid hath spoken with bated breath
Of “ a poor old man with the grave so near.”
What were my death to their corpse-like youth
Travelling blindfold a beautiful way,
Sodden and soulless ? My death forsooth !
What were my death to their life, I say !
Yet sometimes a vision sublimely fair
Of a peerless woman of ice and flame,
Clad in the coils of her red-gold hair,
Enters, and beckons, and speaks my name.
I see how her eyes burn, fierce, but kind,
Mark the heave and fall of her bosom’s play.
I rise to meet her, but wake to find
That I am wizened, and old, and grey.
VIC.
FRANK HUDSON.
By Rail and Semaphore.
KNIGHT AND THE STORMY PETREL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OMARANUI was the last station of the
Rutaniwha suburban section, and, from
the historical point of view, was one
of the most interesting places in the Plutonic
Isles. Also, it was a charming place to live in,
having a keen, bracing atmosphere, an unlimited
supply of artesian water, and a genial population
that mostly had a bank deposit of three figures.
It was a straggly town, a sort of wilderness of
pleasant villas, with hedges along the streets,
hung over with laburnum and lilac, through
which peeped baby roses.
A few miles west of the town was the moulder-
ing stockade of the pah Ahuriri, which the whites
had stormed years before, with great slaughter of
their colored fellow-subjects. For service in this
deed of derring-do most of the white families in
the district had received grants of Maori land.
Southward two miles as the bird flies was a
gloomy lakelet in the mi.pt of a wilderness of
reeds. _ In the centre of the lakelet was an island
on which were more ruins. In the days of u
I write that reedy swamp teemed with dfM- “id
teal, wild swans, pukakis, and a large colony of
geese that had decided that life in the swamp was
much safer than in the barnyard. Around the
town itself were numerous streams into which had
been imported trout, whitebait and other deli-
cacies.
Under these circumstances, it was obvious why
Arthur Jason Knight preferred to stay at Oma-
ranui, letting promotion to stations in the
bleak and stormy south go by. He had been the
first and only S.M. the place had known. At
Rutaniwha, eight miles away, Traffic Agents and
Managers had come and gone. Loco. Engineers
arrived with departmental pomp and circum-
stance, run their little rig, and then faded sud-
denly away into the south, where all the trouble
came from. Even the S.M.-ship of Rutaniwha
had had its tragedies ; some men had passed from
it to traffic Offices, some had gone into oblivion
while others had been killed in their own shunt-
ing yard. But at Omaranui, for 18 long years all
had been peace and Arthur Jason Knight had
like the brook, babbled on.
Mr. Knight was a veteran of the last Maori
war and a protege of the member for the district.
ne member had an amusing hallucination that
he, too, had served with distinction in that
scrap and would always appeal to Mr. Knight to
bear him out in any details of the unpleasantness,
tungflt had made unto himself other friends of
Mammon, and was a considerable favorite of the
. businesspeople’' and the squattocracy, whose
interests he had always carefully studied—
Rutaniwha provincial district being the last
stronghold of the Wool Kings. Both of these
classes regarded him as something of a hero For
l w £\ wh ™ a y° uth of 22, while
tiding along the Waikareßoad, had met a strong
lorceof Maoris marching in a military manner
rXn K Rutamwha - <>n that occasion Arthur
Jason K. was no coward, whatever he proved in
the evening of his life. He opened fire on that
crowd of Maoris, and only when his ammunition
was exhausted had he galloped away to Rutani-
wha and warned the town.
The town was not particularly grateful. It
.said Knight had no right to start shooting, and
f tIIZZ^ h w h^ heen the ori^inal intentions
of the natives his action r-.-ant that it would be
necessary to either hang him or fight the Maoris,
home people thought it would be easier and much
more expedient to hang Knight. However, other
counsels, prevailed; and later on the whites
; ttackea and stormed Ahuriri pah, where the
i latives had established their headquarters.
v - iff turn for ®? rvice rendered in that battle
knight, among others received a grant of land
,t Omaranui and he blossomed out as orderly to
’mV O h° a Tni OCalI l aS The Gallant
ung-. Ihe U.u. hadn t much use for an orderly
md as it was against his nature to pay a man to
10 i? e determined to find a berth To r hS
the service of the suffering country
vo Arthur Jason Knight was appointed Post
master at Omaranui, and a young man was sent
out to teach him what it was necessary for a Post*
master to know.
When the railway made its appearance the
member for the district, which was still The
Gallant Capting, proposed that Arthur J. K.
should hold the dual position of Post and Station
Master. It was even as he said, and Knight
received a large addition to his income.
So Knight had seen the place grow up, and had
come to be regarded as one of the great natural
resources of the district. It was generally under-
stood by the public that there was no one else in
the service who could “ run ” Omaranui, and in
the service it was firmly believed that there was
no power on earth which could shift Arthur Jason
Knight. Mr. Knight went to bed every evening
happy in the firm conviction that if either Post
or Railway department tried to remove him, the
population would break into open rebellion.
He went on believing it till the Petrel came.
• '* • .
John Wesley Hampden, the sub-stationmaster,
was worthy of his chief. When he went to
Omaranui he was 30 years of age, a Freemason,
and regarded in the department as an utter
failure, whom it was expedient to get rid of as
soon as possible. He had no nerve, and in the
slightest approach to a crisis could be relied upon
to lose his head hopelessly. His ignorance of
book-keeping was amazing. He had no more
idea of the reason for the various volumes, or why
he posted them up, than he had of the rings of
Saturn. He was merely an automaton. The
first month he was at Omaranui, Knight, who
was also a Freemason, confided to him that he,
the Station Master, had never been able
to understand the why and wherefore of
the balance-sheet, and why it was neces-
sary to strike a separate balance-sheet for
the Goods, and how the devil the Goods
balance-sheet was included in the General Station
balance-sheet. Then Hampden made the sign of
distress, and sadly admitted that he couldn’t
make up a balance-sheet of any sort. JBlank dis-
may fell upon Knight, but they put their heads
together and got out of the awful difficulty by
paying half-a-sovereign each at the month end to
Whitley, the accountant of the Omaranui Timber
Co., to strike the Station balance. And Whitley
did.it for three years. Then the Petrel came.
Never popular on the section, Knight and
Hampden aroused a bitter hatred for themselves
over the action with Charlie Potter, the cadet.
Charlie was slightly pugnacious, and would take
advantage of any excuse to have a fight with the
town boys, and among others he punched the
head and spoilt the beauty of Arthur Jason
Knight, junior. Then he objected to coming on
duty on Sundays, and as there were only two
trains on the day of rest, it was quite unneces-
sary. Knight threatened him with removal if he
objected to Sunday work, and Charlie retorted
by offering to ask the Manager to shift him to
some station where he would have his Sundays
free. Knight then suddenly abolished the Sunday
work. Charlie’s people were down south, and
the boy lived in a boarding-house, where they
taught him to smoke cigars and drink ale. W hen
his pocket money ran out he would occasionally
help himself to a cigar from Knight’s box, and
when bowled out treated the matter as a huge
joke. Knight didn’t, and the third occasion he
missed a cigar he talked the matter over with
Hampden, who had been looted of a few cigar-
ettes, and they walked over to the police station,
and, in spite of the protests of the sergeant, in-
sisted on laying an information.
Brought before a J.P. bench which was suffer-
ing from sorehead and hver, Charlie was sentenced
to a month’s imprisonment. Then Knight went
back to the office and sent a long telegram to the
boy’s people, telling them that he regretted to
have to inform them that Charles had got into
trouble, etc. Even the “business people” of
Omaranui thought Knight had been a bit
too severe, and the Traffic Manager took action
and managed to get the boy released after being
locked up for 36 hours. But having been con-
victed of a misdemeanor it was impossible for
Charlie to remain in the service, and he went
back home, disgraced.
The bluff old Traffic Manager would probably
have wreaked some sort of vengeance on Knight
and Hampden, but he was shifted down South,
and the Traffic Clerk went further north, and
with new men in the district office, the event was
forgotten.
* * * *
When Hampden returned from his annual
month’s holiday, Knight asked him to have
supper at Bonchetti’s, as there was a lot he
wanted to talk to him about. Across the mud
oysters and the porter Knight told him how the
new Manager had started to reform things, and
the staff had settled down to a system of dogged,
though passive, resistance. For a time it had
looked as though the Manager would be power-
less, but he had gripped the position with both
hands, taken off his coat, and waded in to fight.
Knight’s metaphors were in the wrong order, but
otherwise they described the situation truly
enough.
The very day after Hampden had left on his
tour a young man named Knutsford had arrived
from the south, and taken up a temporary posi-
tion in the Goods. Three days afterwards he had
relieved the S.M. at Mungawhero, while that
officer came into Rutaniwha to be tested for
color-blindness. From there he moved up and
down the section, relieving all and sundry while
they came in to be tested, and was never more
than a day or a day and a half at any
station. But, like a certain dramatic hero’s
wound, it was enough. He made good use
of his time, and within 24 hours of his
departure, with two exceptions, every station
received a long memorandum from the Old Man,
calling attention to defects in the way things
were run, and stress was laid upon the
importance of reducing expenses and increasing
revenue in every possible way. So far, Knight
was happy to say this ruffian, who had been nick-
named the Stormy Petrel, had not paid a call at
Omaranui.
Hampden got scared. _ He began to brood over
what might happen to him if he were transferred
to some other station. With this terrible new
manager, and this Petrel raging up and down
the Section, anything might happen. He deter-
mined to try and get Whitley to show him how
to make out balance-sheets, and do his miser-
able best to make himself more competent.
But, first, he worried himself ill, and then the
decaying leaves from the dank plantation round
the house did the rest, and Hampden found
himself down with low fever. When Knight
received the news, he cursed Hampden roundly,
and almost fell ill himself. Now the Petrel
would surely come.
But he didn’t. Instead, the Express brought
out Haughton, a young man whose paren-
tal home was in Omaranui; and Knight
breathed freely once more. Haughton was filled
to the lips with news of the new manager and
the Petrel. He pronounced the old man as
(Continued on next page.)


You Can Always Tell the Man
with Kidney Trouble.
The man with kidney trouble is cheerless in expression, sallow, and heavy-eyed. He is
easily irritated, excited, and worried over trifles, and nervous. His back troubles him
day and night—spoils his sleep, and makes him dizzy and faint after the slightest
exertion. He is rheumatic, dyspeptic, and hopeless. Hoan’s Backache Kidney Pills
make the Kidneys well; they are the one medicine that is especially for kidney and
bladder troubles—the one medicine that cures men and women to STAY cured, and pro-
tects them against such advanced kidney complaints as Bright’s disease, diabetes, dropsy,
rheumatism, &c. Bead the following cases of Sydney people who have been cured :
SYDNEY TESTIMONY .
FROM WATSON’S BAY. j
Mr. James Fotheringhame, Watson’s Bay,
writes : “ Whilst in South Africa with the 6th Im-
perial Bushmen, through constant exposure to all
sorts of weather, sleeping in wet clothes, etc., I
got a very severe attack of lumbago. I was so bad
that I could not get up off the ground—let alone
mount my horse. Two military doctors had a
go at me. One blistered my back until all the
skin was off ; and the other gave me medicine,
but neither of them did me any good. Fortu-
nately, a comrade came along with a box of
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and before I had
finished the box I was as right as ever I was in
my life. Since then I always keep a box of the
pills handy in case of the lumbago returning, but,
so far, I am glad to sav, I have had no necessity to
take them. You may make whatever use you like
of this, as I consider Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills a boon to humanity, and I shall always
recommend them.”
FROM NEWTOWN. j
Mr. James Hudson, 14 Lennox-street, Newtown,
Sydney, says :—“ I work in the Bondi sewer.
There is a constant drip there, and, when work-
ing, it mostly happens that one is wet through.
Some parts are better than others, but, while
working in the shafts one is constantly damp,
and this affected my health. My trouble came
with a bad cold in the kidneys, which caused
terrible pains in my back. I did my work, but it
was most fearful torture for me to have to do it.
I was very bad the first day that I saw Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and it struck
me that, by the name of the remedy, they should
be good for my complaint. I procured them, and
they cured me in a fairly quick time. lam never
without them in the house now.”
Mrs. Hudson confirms the above :—“lt is now
six years since my husband gave the above testi-
monial for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and lie
is as well to-day as he was then. That’s the best
of Doan’s Pills, they cure for good.”
When the Kidneys are ill, the Whole Body is Hi.
Kidneys Purify the Blood because they Filter it.
V
mXACK.
«*-
A
s
\<
A
I
i
m
'"Tc
*> -
lit
r>
v* <S
Every Picture
Tells a Story.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box
(six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney, N.S.W.
being pleasant and bluff. The Petrel was a
strange bird, a very haggard young man with
hollow eyes, thin features, hands like those of
a girl, and dressed in the height of fashion.
His peculiarities were an exceedingly low voice
and a passion for work. Unless spoken to first,
he never addressed anybody.
Knight became interested. He began to think
tha< this Petrel was over-rated. He felt almost
sorry he hadn’t come out instead of Haughton.
After breakfast he began to indulge in intro-
spection, and came to the conclusion this fellow
Knutsford was a mere boy and would be quite
harmless if kept firmly in his place. He deter-
mined to show the Section how to treat the up-
start. At present, he understood, the upstart
was having a fortnight’s holiday, shooting ducks.
When he got back to the office, he found
Haughton and the rest of the staff in a state of
intense excitement. The Petrel’s holiday was
only a blind to cover investigations into the
siding traffic, and 15 of the staff (guards, acting-
guards, station-masters and some clerks) had been
arrested for fraud on the strength of information
he had accumulated.
Knight heard the last available detail of the
message the telegraphists had read as it went
through to the Commissioners from the Traffic
Office, and then he wandered down to tell
Hampden.
“It makes me feel real ill,” said Hampden. “ I
just shiver every time I think of them coming out
and overhauling our place.”
“We’re safe,” said Knight, nodding his head
and pursing his lips. “ Think what it would
mean to the business people, and the squatters,
and the Meat Monopoly Co. if I got shifted. And
as long as I’m here, you’ll be here, old fellow.
The Gallant Capting will fix that for me—lie’s
got whips of influence. Always work in with the
business people, and never mind the blooming
Government.”
So Knight strolled back to the station and
entered the railway office. Sitting in his own
easy chair, reading a book, was a young man in a
beautiful suit of sage-green tint. A box-cloth
overcoat lay across the table. A crocodile-skin
gripsack stood on a chair, and the sheen of the
stranger's porpoise boots was only exceeded by
the glow of the diamonds in his sleeve links.
Then the stranger looked from behind his book.
The haggard face, the hollow, deep-set eyes, all
told Knight the Petrel had come.
The Station Master thrust his hands deep into
his pockets and regarded the stranger fixedly.
“So you’ve come, Mr. Stormy Petrel?”
“I think so,” replied the Petrel, in a voice
that was almost a whisper, and looking round the
office with a peculiar searching glance, as though
taking in every detail.
“Well, Mr. Knutsford, I’ve heard of you, and
I can’t say that I am glad to see you.”
“1 am sorry you are prejudiced against me. I
trust that when we know each other better the
prejudice will disappear.”
“Well, I must say I don’t like spies, Mr.
Knutsford.”
“ I can understand the feeling.” Then with a
sudden burst of fury : “Damn your impudence,
sir ; do you mean to call me a spy ! ”
“If you’re not a spy, Mr. Knutsford, what are
you?”
“If you mean that to expose criminals, traitors
who break the trust reposed in them, who rob
their country and employers at the same time,
and bring them to justice, is being a spy, I am
one, and shall always be. I shall expect a written
apology within half-an-hour. If I do not receiye
it by that time I shall ask the Manager to obtain
it for me.”
Knight choked, and went outside. Up and
down the platform he walked, considering what
he should do. What the devil status did this
fellow hold ? He went back to the office.
'A” w^at ca P are J T ° U ere > Mr. Knuts-
,, TT „
m , °c|F?i? ve M r- Haughton. , , „
The Station Master sat down and dashed off a
short note, expressing his regret that his words
should have given offence. He did not mean to
hurt Mr. K. s feelings, but had merely intended
to discuss the question from a philosophical stand-
P°l, n * } ; . „ , . . .. . ... ~
' Now we have fixed up that little bit of busi-
ness, Mr. Knutsford, permit me to mention that
I have run this station for 18 years and never had
*he slightest trouble. I hope that splendid record
will not be broken.
. I® so • . I understood that there was a very
painful affair in connection with a cadet who
helped himself to a couple or, it might have been,
three cigars. I was down south at the time when
the boy returned after being imprisoned, and it
created a very painful sensation
, Kt^ht g lared at hlm > and hls s P eech faded
’“Have you any instructions ?” continued the
haggard-faced Knutsford.
“ You will take charge of the Goods, Mr.
Knutsford ; I understand you have had experi-
ence in the Goods, and know the business pretty
well.”
Half-an-hour later saw Mr. Knutsford in charge
of the Omaranui Goods.
0
As Knight went home to breakfast he saw the
new clerk emerge from the private siding of the
Omaranui Timber Co. with a notebook in his
hand. Mr. Knight wondered what the deuce he
was doing there, but passed on. He had quite
got over his fear of the Petrel. He reckoned that
young man was a very ordinary man indeed. All
daylong he seemed to be rummaging about the
private sidings, and in the afternoon he got off
for an hour and swooped down on the private
station of the Meat Monopoly Co. About 2 p.m.
he noticed that the shunting engine was busy in
the private sidings, and as he came down to the
office after lunch he saw that there was an
additional padlock on the stockyard gate and
agistment paddocks. On arrival at the office, he
received a notification that a special shunting
train was running out to the Meat Monopoly
Co.’s private station. At 3p.m. a deputation of
business people waited on him to ask why their
sidings had been cleared of some dozens of par-
tially unloaded trucks, and all delivery refused
till some enormous amount of demurrage was
paid. While he was explaining that this outrage
was entirely without his knowledge or orders, and
should be rectified at once, news arrived that a man
who had just come to take the Kinross Pastoral
Co.’s stock that had been browsing in the railway
agistment paddocks had been refused delivery
till about the value of the stock had been
paid for agistment. The Meat Monopoly Co.
rang up and requested the S.M. to explain what
the devil the department meant by refusing to
lift any loaded trucks till the co. had guaranteed
to pay something like £l5O for detention of sheep
waggons.
The S.M. gasped out that he knew nothing of
it—must have come from "Rutaniwha.
“ Rutaniwha be hanged !” shrieked the angry
capitalist at the other end of the telephone ;
“it’s from your own office, and got your own
name at the bottom, per H.K.”
■“ God help me !” groaned the S.M. as the Meat
Monopoly man rang off in a burst of indignation.
He went back to the deputation, and promised its
members, collectively and individually, that the
fiend who had done all this should go back to Hu-
taniwha that very evening, even if he had to work
the station single-handed. For 18 years he had
worked the blessed station, and nothing like this
had ever happened before. He could not trust
himself to go near Knutsford; so he just tele-
graphed at great length to the Manager that
unless Mr. Knutsford was removed immediately,
he would not be responsible for the preservation
of the peace.
The Manager wired asking was his telegram in-
tended for the Inspector of Police? Knight
instigated the business people to send a wire
signed by several score of names requesting the
removal of Knutsford, but they thought it would
be best if the Mayor signed it. The Mayor was a
man of sense, and declined to sign it. So each
signed his own name, and the telegraph depart-
ment made a big rise that day.
Knight suspended Knutsford, and shunted all
the held-up waggons back into the private sidings
without collecting the demurrage. He ran a
special shunting train down to the Meat Mono-
poly Co. s sidings, and lifted all their loaded
waggons. He released all the cattle in the agist-
ment paddocks and yards, and again telegraphed
for the removal of Knutsford. At 5 p.m. the
message came :
Mr. Knutsford to return to Rutaniwha per
No. 28. .
The platform was crowded with the business
people when No 28 came in Ihe bell rang, and
then out of the door of the b.M. s office came Mr.
Knutsford, his box-cloth overcoat over his arm,
his crocodile skin gripsack in his right hand and
a look of utter indifference on his face. As he
stepped forth, three prolonged groans split the
air, and the passengers m the train rushed to the
windows. He stepped on board the first-class
carriage, and another storm of hoots rent the air.
He deposited his gripsack and coat in the rack,
and stepped back on to the carriage platform.
Kmght stood with a smile of horrible glee on his
paleface. Then he stepped up to the carriage,
The crowd pressed back.
Let this be a lesson to you, Knutsford. You
are only a boy yet, and have lots of time to re-
cover yourself.
Knutsford smiled sadly.
' M°u don t understand, Mr. Knight. This
crowd will turn and rend you to-morrow. You
have allowed them to rob the Department of
perhaps thousands of pounds, bee if this gang
will even make good the amount that you were
foolish enough to remit after it had been entered
m your station books against them. If the
Manager declines to issue a credit note you will
have to pay it all, and it’s a lot of money.
Good-bye, Mr. Knight. I am sincerely sorry to
have been the instrument of your destruction,
nonr™um l er’’ y ° Ur own ' carelessness ’ and
“What the devil do you mean, you pup?”
roared Knight, and then, as the full meaning
of it burst on him, he struck the young officer
heavily in the face. The crowd yelled with de-
light, and there was a sudden rush—but the train
glided off. As Knight dropped off the foot-board
he saw the red stain across the haggard counte-
nance—and then the corner of the next carriage
sliut off the view.
All in a moment the crowd had gathered round
him.
“What did you hit him for?” said the tall,
dark manager of the Omaranui Timber Co.
** Well, he as good as threatened me with the
sack —in fact, he expressed his regret that he had
been the instrument of my destruction.”
“H’m, pretty rough!” said the manager,
strolling off.
“Don’t you think he deserved it?” said
Knight, overtaking him, in company with half-a-
dozen others.
“No,” blurted out the manager of the Timber
Co. “If he had said he had no regret it would
have been justifiable, but if he really believes he
has ruined you, it was good of him to feel regrets
that his duty made it imperative.”
“ I’ve always stood by my public, and I think
my public will stand by me now that I am old and
likely to need them,” said Knight, with great
dignity.
“Well, he’s a darned good man. If ever he
wants a billet I’ll give him one,” said the timber
man. “Let’sgo and have a drink.”
Knight’s railway career closed suddenly that
night, when the Manager and Ireton, the reliev-
ing officer, came out by No. 31, and took over the
station, after having suspended him for gross
neglect of the interests of the Department.
* * * *
When he received notice that he was no longer
a railway officer, Knight remembered the words
of Knutsford. He made up his mind to go on the
land, but, before announcing his intention, he
thought he would test the gratitude of the public.
He went to the Omaranui Timber Co. and asked
them could they provide him with a berth.
“ Haven’t got one,” said the Manager.
“But you said you’d find one for Knutsford, if
ever he wanted it.”
“ I did —and I will.”
“Well, that’s pretty rough. I’ve saved you
hundreds of pounds, perhaps thousands, in
demurrage, and this fellow charged you £2O,
which you will have to pay—and yet you say
you’d find him a billet.”
“So I would—it would pay me to have him.
Consider how ha would make money for me.
You’d chuck it away for me, through sheer good-
nature. You’re the sort of man, Knight, it pays
to have working for the opposition.”
“ Well, I struck that man, but, by G—, he told
me the truth,” said Knight.
“ What did he tell you ? ”
“ He told me you were a gang of ingrates—and
so you are. Well, I don’t want your blasted
billet. I’ve a farm of my own, and I’ll live on it,
but I thought I’d try you.”
“ Well, look at our price-list for building mate-
rials before going elsewhere,” said the Manager,
thrusting the document into Knight’s hands.
Knight was old, and not so active as he had
been, but he leaped on the price-list with both
feet.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
“ Whaffor ”: There is a lubra in the
Northern Territory who finds all the leaders and
lodes for her European lord and master, and who
is valued at £5 per week. A splendid scratcher,
this native, and a wonderful judge of tin. She
has also found gold and copper, and can use a
dolly and dish as well as most miners. Likewise,
she is good with pick, shovel and drill, uses the
fuse on occasions, and hates a Chow with an un-
dying hatred.


Ayer’s Sarsaparilla is a wonderful medicine. We
give below the testimony of a grateful husband:
w
v
f
I/Iliil
-r\c^
‘‘My wife has all her life long been
subject to rush of blood to the head
and fainting-fits. In later years these
were more frequent, and her skin be-
came very sallow. She had scarcely
any appetite, and it was not safe to
leave her at home by herself for fear
of a fainting-fit. I may state we had
medical advice both in England and
hero in New Zealand, but it did no
good; so, some months back, I sug-
gested that she take Ayer’s Sarsapa-
rilla. She protested against it, be-
lieving it to be quackery, but I pur-
chased a bottle just to gnus it a triql,
and the result was marvelous. Mrs.
Moul has taken five bottles, and now
she is a new creature.
“I forward you her photo by this mail, and you can make what use
you think proper of this statement. Yours* gratefully.” —John F.
Moul, Ty-Coed, Swanson, Auckland.
“P.S. I omitted stating that the photo was taken since using the
Sarsaparilla.”
Be sure you get the right kind of Sarsaparilla —“AYER’S.” Don’t
let anybody induce you to try some other kind. You will regret it
if you do.
If you are not in good, vigorous health, if your nerves are not so
Strong as you wish, if you are feeling run down and depressed, buy
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
today and begin the certain cure.
Prepared by x)R. J. C. AYER, & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
gfdh
Artistic
And
CA
POST
V
!*< W !r’ t
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address gmd we will forward you 12 packets, each containing' 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet, n hen .you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Gent.’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full Satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. ,We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district* Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL- POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st.,
Sydney
WHEN A MAN
Selects A PIPE
HE CHOOSES ONE THAT HE CAN
ABSOLUTELY DEPEND UPON.
All the Pipes we offer are specially
made for us of the finest brier and
are warranted not to crack or burn.
!
A genuine brier
pipe—bent bowl,
with square stem
and silver band, amber mouthpiece,
in plush-lined case, 9/6, post fre®.
HMt
A favorite model. Has, good
thick bowl of finest brier, silver-
mounted, and amber mouthpiece,
in case, 8/6, post free.
Tobacco Pouch,, with silver shield, Buck
Skin, 4/- ; Kangaroo Skin, 5/6; finest
Antelope Skin, 6/6 ; Seal Skin, 7/6. Any
initials engraved free.
One of these pipes and a tobacco pouch
would be a present much appreciated by
any smoker.
Other articles of Jewellery and British
Silver-Plate are illustrated and described
in our big catalogue. May we send you a
copy—post free?
We pay the postage, and if on receipt of
the article it is not exactly as we repre-
sented, you can immediately send it back
and we will refund the amount paid.
ANGUS and rOOTE,
“ The Store where Qualitt counts,”
GEORGE ST., °° R AR{} fI R °y AL SYDNEY
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
A
POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office*.
Health
, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
mmwm
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAXrtciS & DE3ILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr. Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 33s ; freight Is. &
Is 6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents—Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Fauldingr & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
•embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
of persons who had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENT FREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. ' • ,
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness,
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, etc., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Remedy
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
FREE
BY POST, A PERFECT
HOME CUREby that justly
celebrated FRENCH HOS-
PITAL PHYSICIAN and
PARISIAN SPECIALIST.
DR. RABONSKI, showing sufferers how they may CURE
THEMSELVES OF ALL NERVOUS TROUBLES,
Debility, and their serious consequences. A HOME
CURE pure and simple for all who need it. Address—
PARISIAN AG£NCY, Castlereagh St,
s:sr id untie 3T.
How A
are |
you ■
Everyone is familiar with this expression. It is heard the wide world
over. Every language has its equivalent for **How are you? ** Good
health is the one great universal wish and desire. The most eminent
experts say that four-fifths of all sickness comes directly from
indigestion, or a torpid condition of the liver and bowels.
cure four-fifths of all diseases by removing the cause. They tone you
uo and dispel the impurities which cause sluggishness and heaviness—
I latures warnings of disorder. BEECHAM'S PILLS keep people
cheerful and make life sunny. They are the greatest known medicine
for giving strength to the stomach, correcting the digestion and
regulating’ the liver, kidneys, and bowels, in fact they are an
unfailing remedy to
K&&p
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 h (56 pills) & 2/9 (168
gfdh
A good Clip will
not necessarily
guarantee
a GOOD PRICE unless Handled
by GOOD SALESMEN.
ILL CLfcRK & CO.,
will guarantee BEST MARKET VALUE.
NERVOUSNESS
ZiOSS of ENEF.CY and STRENGTH,
DESPOHDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried in vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OP SEWF-CUKE, Will
forward the same, Tree o£ charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A.MINER, u.P.0., SYDNEY.
HERE’S A NEW HELP
ipr' tho cars— a greater help than
has been before invented
THE ELEOTRICON.
It docs what all other devices have
been trying to do. Itdoesmore. It
actually makes the ear better. Per-
fectly harmless, easy to adjust and
comfortable. Send for our booklet.
TK3 L. R. VERNON COY.,
Go-24 Hunter Street, Sydney.
i
1
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the fame
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule hoars the name l*~
(junr
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS H
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists ia
Australia and New Zealand.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text tlie revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection frpm all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price Is. post free from this office.*
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY TOWN.
Simply drop us a post c:ird with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat-s' mproved high grade ELECTRIC
belts FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all ases ot Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free “ r c „ h , s
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book' which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
4
WILL forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on recent of money order or
postal note. 9ct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, a/-. In 15ot. G.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, B'-. Illustrated Cata-
logue sent Free. R. SiftGOLD KING, Cole’s
Boole Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
fHLOROPYNE
Oantion ;w -^ euuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &9-. beal ' s outhe
Stamp tiie name of tlve Inventor—
Dr. J. COLLIS BROWNC
THE ILLUSTRATED I.ONDON NEWS of
Sept. 2S, IM)S, savs:
“If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with nie, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlorooyxe. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of simple ailments forms
its best recommendation.”


Use
Your
Hose
Now
gfd
vegetables—better ones, too.
There’s no better Hose than ours.
hfgd
There's a lot that's not nearly so
f-oor). Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation yood.
Perdriau Rubber Co- Ltd -
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HYPNOTISM.
4 N Y ONE cun le.urn to exert a magic influence
■A <J X er "tilers. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
The Scientific Wonder of the Age," 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATALOGUES FREE on
application to
SIMPSON BROS.,
CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
hfgdh
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Hock Drill for
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181 b . Operated bv coin >reused air, c'onsuniihy about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only CNE WORKING PART—Striotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
= . W . &J. LEKPRIEUE, 506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Sold'
by
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176 i 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - • • 2/6
fgd
Lockwood Bros., Ltd.
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
PAMPA’
KET
KNtt/ES
are tiio
82ST
hgfd
PARKE & LACY COMPANY, LTD.,
MIMING ENGINEERS AND MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A LARGE STOCK OF
EATON, COLE & BURNHAM VALVES,
Globe Valves, Gate Valves, Check Valves,
Foot Valves, Butterfly Valves—Brass and Iron.
Price Lists on application. Please write to above address „
I
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL’S Black, Galvd,, Tubes & Fittings,
TUCK’S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c.
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves Lathes
Lubricators Drilling Machines
G.M. Fittings Boilers, Injectors
Blacksmiths’ Tools Emery Wheels
Engineers’ Tools Bolts, Rivets
Wheels and Axles Bar Iron & Steel
Wire Ropes Sheets, Plates
etc., etc- Mining Steel.
Motor Car
, Tyres
LE PERSAN
Matte by THE
Silvertoao Rubber Co.
Large Stocks Kept at
279 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
THE . . .
SPERRY SLIME TABLE
is a buddle with a circular
vanning motion—a combi-
nation of the two very
best principles.
It is the only Slime Concentrator on
which several products can be made
of different minerals in one operation.
• -
m
■
m.■
■ "v
•V.
w
THE SPEItRY
is the only 4)1 im e
Machine which js built
on correct principles,
bo t h mechanically
and metal lurgically.
Comparative tests
against Canvas
Tables shebw the
great superiority of
the SPERRY.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
SOLE
LICENSEES,
263 George St., Sydney
AND MELBOURNE.
