

DEWAR’S ™gg WHISKY
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _______
-
ia:oEiA3Err.
——
(jadley’s Orient Sotil.
Write for SPECIAL CATALOGUE of
Kirehner’s wnnnWflßKlNfl and SAWING MACHINERY
SOLE AGENTS ■
GIBSON, BATTLE & CO., Ltd., 7 Bent St., Sydney, n.s.w.
ĥ
it
have
must
*
s
Fine-Apple Brand
ħ
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
nationals
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
S ° Clety) ' W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wante.
-&
u
h
For DELIVERY,
1* r?„ : •..*
SUCTION, STEAM, OR ROCK DRILLS,
Voui* Enquiries and ORDERS to-
Works at
SI6.VERTOWN,
' *
i ite ..v
ESSEX, ENGLAND.
RUBBER
SILVERTOWN
THE
•t
N.S.W.
Sydney
Street,
George
279
NOS. 882, 2435.
“LYSAQHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
ĥ
AL
m
ħ
is the Queen oM Cocoas
FOI^
l Aromji.StrengtK^Puri^:
h
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
3
nwHiiur. ***<*»
II
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA'S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers- SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Australia o f Refrigerating and Ice« Making Machinery.
Also largest makers in
HFHMHi SPA WATER.
HELIDON SPA WATER comes from Nature's own laboratory
absftliiMv mire and beyond reach of contamination, .
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 28.—N0. 1451.]
[Thursday, December 5, 1907.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, tor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS. George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd. 71 CASTL s E y R D E N A E G Y H STBEET >
Fulton, Manual of Fire Assaying-, 10s, posted.
Sewell, Electrical Engineering, (is, posted.
Hav, Continuous Current Engineering, 6s, post 6d.
Bottone, Magnetos for Automobolists, 2s 6d, post 4d.
Weyman, Laid up in Lavender, 2s 6d & 3s 6d. post 6d
Masefield, English Prose Miscellany, 6s, post 6d.
Terry, India Rubber : Its Manufacture, etc., 7s, post 6d
Davies, Electric Power and Traction, 7s, post 6d.
Lewes, Liquid and Gaseous, 7s, postage 6d.
Austin, Lamia’s Winter Quarters, illus., 9s, post Bd.
READY.
Is. 3d., Postage 3t>.
THE HAPPY ANNUAL,
By CECIL ALOEN and JOHN HASSALL.
32 Pages of Original Colored Drawings, 14 x 10 inches.
NOW
READY.
is. 3d., Postage 3d.
FULL OF WHOLESOME FUN AND HUMOR. QUITE THE JOLLIEST THING YET ISSUED
'HE NATIVE COMPANION."
An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E. J. Brady.
6cl. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. 0. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
ħ
The Great . .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure of
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
m
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
B. The Trachea, or windpipe.
C. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung 1 .
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIAN
MEDICAL GAZETTE”
says:—
“ Of great service in
affections of the
voice and throat.”
□SON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
nlike Cough Medicines, do not danse gastric discomfort or digestive derangement.
Tub Practitioner” says “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and simitar ailments.”
So/d by all Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d.
The RED PAGE
MAURICE HEWLETT
ROM mediaeval romance—from the
1 Madonna of the Peach Tree, the
Fools Errant and the Fond Adven-
turers of Italy and of the Forest, from his-
torical interpretations of Mary, Queen of
Scots, and Richard Yea-and-Nay, Maurice
Hewlett has turned to give us the story of
the aristocratic lady of London who loved a
butcher a mere hundred years ago. A real
butcher, tradesmen’s entrance, horse, and
apron, and cleaver. The idea is audacious ;
but Hewlett—our later Boccaccio—is always
audacious ; and his love affair of the hero
who hutches is done in the best Hewlett
manner—in a deft and perfect style, with an
iridescent humor, a sense of irresponsible
youth, and, over all, a glow of romance.
For Hewlett shows no signs of becoming
less Hewlettish : he can always be depended
upon for delectable entertainment. His
stories speed the reader on almost raptu-
rously through a tangle of humorous romance,
and his characters are no literary puppets
with thin ink in their veins. The lushness of
the sentiment is always kept in check by a
philosophic wit.
The Stooping Lady (Macmillan) begins
with more than a promise of George Mere-
dith. There is the same alleged and almost
convincing reliance upon historical docu-
ment, the same air of the mere scrupulous
recorder, as in the greatest of all Dianas;
but Hewlett, unlike Meredith, does not
parade his cleverness in chapters that are
designed—from the aloofness and disdain of
a mighty intellect—to be deliberately dull.
Hewlett is left little time for moralising;
his maids and lovers are too impatient, too
impetuous, too much alive. And here,
with the same abandon as in his mediteval
romances, he plunges you into an assem-
blage of lords and princes, of politics and
oaths and aristocracy and drunkenness, with
the Prince of Wales the inert centre of the
seething factions. Here, incidentally, is a
pretty picture of that personage :
It was eleven clock when the Prince came —in
semi-state. Six horses drew him instead of
twelve, and it is possible that there was rather
less hooting because there were rather fewer
sightseers ; but there was enough to render very
necessary the services of a brass band, which, for
drowning purposes, had been ambushed in the
court. When he entered the hall he was flushed
and noisy, but not tipsy...
So seriously she looked at her advancing prince,
you might have thought her his judge ; so scorn-
fully curved her lip you must have known it.
What to her was the advance and boisterous cor-
diality of this overflowing personage, this young
Silenus of creased eye-sockets, and of the color of
pink paint? Was she to curtsey, kiss the hand of
this be-ribboned, fuddled, bloated'man of forty—
and her heart, her will, and soul out there in the
cedared garden, quivering under the calm eyes of
a god ?
Which brings us to the butcher ! He is
quite a remarkable and quite a respectable
butcher ; though, to be sure, in his lady’s
eyes,
David Vernour shone through his blue frock
like Apollo through his shepherd-skins—what
time he was keeping herds for Admetus, serving
his term in proud humility with that Thessalian
king.
But his most useful quality—for a hero—
is his reserve. He knows enough to keep
out of the way—and let his lady love him the
more. He has not the greatness of
Meredith’s magnificent tailor—the tailor
who was also a gentleman ; but he has a
proper pride in his cleaver and apron.
“ My lord.” Vernour said, “ you must fight me
for that.”
“I fight with gentlemen, sir. Not with
butchers.”
‘‘Don’t let my trade stand in your way, my
lord. It should not, for it was your own.”
His lordship started. ‘‘You are impudent, my
man, as well as a rogue, I see.”
“ Sir,” said Vernour, ‘‘you were a soldier, I’ve
been told. What difference there may be between
us seems to be to my credit. I made sheep bleed,
you made men bleed. I carved joints, you carved
limbs. You butchered your own kind ; you slew
men. I made men live. Now, my lord ? ”
“Damn him! he’s right there,” said Lord
Rodono to himself. “"Vernour, I’ll fight you, if
you please.”
But with the butcher so tied to his busi-
ness, it might have been expected that the
centre of the stage would be filled by the
Stooping Lady: But her rightful place is
usurped by a lady who does not stoop—Lady
Morfa, her grandmother, the ancient head
of the family, a grimly picturesque figure
whose pride and will furnish the motifs of
the plot.
She divided mankind, for all purposes, into two
classes. Either you were family, or you were a
person. Collectively, you were still Family,
unless you were the mob.
Lady Morfa was a Whig who “took kings
into favor, not because they were estimable,
but because without them the families could
not govern,” and of prayer she remarked
that no doubt it was—“ ‘Very right and
proper ’ —but she didn’t like it. Any sugges-
tion that applications should be addressed
elsewhere than to herself offended her a
good deal.”
So, through this turmoil of politics and
butchering, Hewlett carries you unresist-
ingly along upon the rush of his preposterous
plot, till, just when you are beginning feebly
to be ashamed of your surrender, he lightly
rescues you from the flood, and dismisses
the tale almost with a philosophic laugh. In
the character of Captain Ranald the romancer
steps forward from the dropped curtain, and,
as chorus, with a light and disconcerting
frankness, sums up :
Ranald shook his head. “I’m not romantic,
but I can see the vestal in her. God bless you,
why do you suppose she tumbled into that young
man’s arms ? ”
“Fine fellow, you tell me; fine figure of a
young man. Had parts—spoke well—could think
—is that what you mean ? ”
Ranald snapped his fingers. “Pooh, sir;
nothing of the sort! His greatest chance with
her was that she knew nothing about him. It was
all gossamer-web of her own spinning. The busi-
ness was done on that visit of hers to Brook-street,
to apologise. Well, she was in a great fright, and
no wonder. He got the benefit of that—don’t you
see ? She was there to sing small, and she became
small; the smaller she, the greater he. As she
stooped, he towered up, higher and higher. She
projected him as a god, and a god he remained to
the end of the chapter. All a generous figment of
her brain. . . .
“Mind you, I knew Vernour well, and
admired him.... No; he struck her imagination,
and she chose—as queens used to choose. As for
him, damn it, he was a male.” ...
“ Do you mean that the eternal male ?”
“ I do. He was no more than that essentially—•
splendid brawn.”
A delightful story, which we may place in
the lowest division of the class reserved for
the best—Fl. For it is merely romance—
and the pride of place is reserved for greater
things than romance—for Tess and Lord Jim
and Diana and Vanity Fair ....
BERNARD O'DOWD.
Ego and Universe entwine;
Thoughts that a wide flight urge
With course centripetal incline
On Ego to converge.
9
Since Blue to me to all is Blue,
Save to the Color-Blind,
Pervadingly then must be True
What thinks my Unit-mind.
It thinks of Protozoic Slime,
Divergency of Race,
The Continuity of Time,
The Trimetry of Space.
The Brain's associative tracts
Link tricklets on the pane
With Kosciusco-cataracts,
Mud-puddles ivith the Main.
Atoms and Suns cohesive spin,
And High with Low is met ;
There lurks some Shakespeare-germ within
The Penny Novelette.
Age with its obsolescent Sense
Will be metempsychosed
To Infancy of influence
Benign as Buttered Toast.
Prenatal Consciousness will teach
Vision to infant Eyes,
Psychotic Mimicry bring Speech
Where Fact may crystallise.
Thought grasps, conversely, That Which Is
Behind its wordy Shroud ;
But can it through Periphrasis
Prehend Bernard O’Dowd ?
N.S.W.
CHARLES MACLEAN.
SHE TO HIM
Is it the persistent feminine instinct for imita-
tion, or woman’s inability to express her own
inmost feelings, that makes most women writers
of love-verse take the mere man’s point of view?
Women write charmingly of their love for
children ; they seem unable or afraid to write of
their love for men. In writing love-verses nine
out of ten women put themselves in the man’s
place, and tell us of her charms, not his. And
surely he has charms. With a brutal desire to
learn why a woman ever loves a man, the Red
Page offers a guinea for the best poem, written by
a woman, to or of a man, ideal or actual, that she
loves. Verses must be received by this office by
January 9th, 1908, and the envelope should be
marked “ Him ” and addressed to this page.
In the recent successful show of the Sydney
Society of Artists at Melbourne, Norman Lindsay
sold black-and-white work of the value of £l5O.
The extent of the (Melbourne) appreciation of the
best black-and-white artist in Australia can be
gauged by the fact that before his work the largest
price paid by the Melbourne Gallery for black-
and-white—a drawing by Yierge—was £4O. None
of Lindsay’s drawings were sold for less than £lO,
and many for £l5. v
The Nyngan Observer prints Clancy of the Over-
flow, without any signature, and remarks, “ The
following vigorous and atmospheric poem appeared
originally, unsigned, in an Australian newspaper.”
Fame !
.4 BOOK OF THE MAORI
MUCH praise must be given to
Johannes C. Anderson for his heroic
efforts to make the Maori of myth
and history live again in the pages of
a book, and much sympathy must be
extended to that author for his heroic,
but inevitable, failure. In Maori Life in
Ao-tea (printed by Whitcombe and Tombs,
M.L., with the unrivalled expertness in
photographic reproductions common to
Maoriland publishers) Anderson has at-
tempted an impossible thing; he has tried
to combine a thesaurus of the Maori
with a narration of Maori epics and
legends; and in his care for accurate
detail he has missed the poetry that dis-
tinguishes these myths. In a foreword, A.
T. Ngata, an educated Maori barrister and
LL.B., hits the nail with his remark,
“ Indeed the reader may complain that the
conscientous attention to detail has here
and there impaired the vividness of the pour-
trayal.” It is true that Anderson has no
illusions about the success of his work, and
in his preface he points out some of the
difficulties of his task. His aim was to place
us in communication with the Maori people
in their every-day life; enabling us to see
their customs, to hear their sayings, to love
their land, to experience the terrors of their
omens, to be influenced by their mana,
wonder-tilled by their legends and folk-lore.
The rough material for this attempt having been
first gathered, it was necessary that it should be
set out in a manner not altogether European, yet
in a manner for which European taste would not
be averse. The coloring and atmosphere must be
different: for lions, roses, gold, gems and other
old-world poetic accessories being unknown to our
dusky people of Ao-tea, all reference to these
must be avoided : no man could be lion-hearted;
he must fight bravely like a shark: no maiden
might have rosy lips, for that would involve a
double error; roses were unknown, and lips
darkened with tattoo were preferred : golden sun-
sets and silver tides might not be seen in this
wonderland : though the Maori orator—and every
man was an orator —had his similes, his meta-
phors, many beautiful, many involved as those of
the Scandinavian skalds.
It was a brave ideal, but Anderson has
choked his path to his goal with bristling
weeds of detail and meticulous literalism.
The book is dull. And even in his rendition
of the great legends of the Maori,- which so
strikingly parallel the legends of the Greeks,
he has not improved upon Hori Grey,
Domett, or the greatest of these, John
White. Anderson specifically states his
intention :
The new world of Maori myth and tradition
and story has, as far as art and story are con-
cerned, been practically untouched. A time is
looked for, and this work is an attempt to hasten
its coming, when the world’s art will be enriched
with scenes from Maori legend ; and he who
would break away from old-world fetters will find
in this land a mine of wealth almost, if not quite,
equal to that afforded by Greek or Scandinavian
mythology. The dusky skin has been urged as
an objection to artistic treatment; but if marble
is unsuitable, is there not bronze? Many of the
scenes and tales scattered through this book will
be found specially written with a view to furnish-
ing subjects for painters and sculptors; poets,
too, who revel in good things. The first intention
was to make an epic of the whole subject; it was
found that there was material for twenty epics,
and the poem was therefore laid aside until all
had been gathered. This quarrying will supply
the artists of Maoriland with ample rough
material ; the references will indicate where still
more will be found ; let them but turn their
dazzled eyes from the w’hiteness of the Arcadian
nymphs and goddesses ; here are other sources of
inspiration as powerful ; anon we shall have a
new blossoming forth ; a pourtrayal, not of the
sunny voluptuousness of the Mediterranean, but
of the weird, if at times lurid, strangeness of the
Antipodean.
Anderson has lamentably failed in his effort.
A comparison of, for instance, the great
legend pf Puhi-huia, as rendered in Maori
Life in Ao-tea, and the same legend as get
forth in White’s Ancient History of the Maori
—several volumes of which monumental
work are now unfortunately out of print-
will disclose the fact that White has brought
out all the poetic significance of that love
story, while Anderson has drained it of much
of its suggestive beauty. Anderson has but
worked over, with infinite care and erudition,
the old quarry left by White. But White
had an instinct for the precious metal ; he
found all the nuggets. Anderson has but
picked out of the tailings a few inconsider-
able specks, and he has tarnished the
nuggets. So, despite the prolixity of both
works, the poets and artists of Maoriland
must still go to White for their material.
£52?
Yet in his narrative of the daily life of
the Maori of old time, Anderson has done
good and careful work. His book will
remain a comprehensive repository, put in
popular form, of the details of that life,
their folk-lore, their karakia, their religion.
Here, for reference, the worker at this new
mine of poetry and art may happily look ;
the book is a dictionary of the Maori, and
therefore useful. The work was well worth
doing. As an example of the matter —the
style is sometimes slovenly and dull—we
may quote this striking incident of the
Maori belief in omens :
“ It was here that Tara-iti saw, lying across his
path, what appeared to be the body of a man
newly dead. It was seen by none of us, nor as we
approached could we discern that which in his
eyes lay directly before us. We therefore knew
that it was a kehua of Tara-iti. He left that path
and turned into another. There, too, the body
lay extended before him, its face turned to the
ground. Again he tried another path, and again
the kehua appeared, its face now uppermost, when
Tara-iti saw that the features were his own. His
very moko, he declared, and the scar over his cheek-
bone, were reproduced in the face of the appari-
tion. It was an omen of death should he continue
on his way, and* Tara-iti at once determined to
return, obeying the warning. But now, to his
consternation and terror, the kehua lay on his
homeward path ; and turn which way he would,
it lay before him after the first few strides. Fear
and perplexity were also in our hearts ; but as
Tara-iti only saw it, for him alone was the omen
designed. Then Maru-wehi interpreted this
thing; we must proceed, and Tara-iti remain
where he then was until the kehua no longer
appeared, when he must hasten back to the pa.
There, then, going on our way, we left him
trembling ; not without misgivings, and many
backward thoughts. To you, though I see him
not, he has no doubt lfmg since returned, and told
you what I have now related.”
A wail interrupted the speaker, for all now
knew that Tara-iti must still be in that place,
surrounded by the one kehua ; and since so long a
time had passed, he must already have accom-
panied that kehucb to the land of shadows.
“Did he not return ? ” cried Pua-ruroa, inter-
preting the wail and the silence.
_ “ Alas, no,” sighed the others; and the cries of
his wife and sisters filled them all with sorrow.
The parallelism between the myths of the
Maori and those of the ancient world are
obvious in the Maori legend of Hinemoa and
the Greek story of Hero and Leander, with
the curious transformation that in Maori
legend it is the woman that swims the
Hellespont, the man who waits—and plays
the flute. In Maori myth, indeed, it is
nearly always the woman who chooses her
lover, the woman who acts. Here, for
instance, is the splendid pleading of Puhi-
huia in defence of love : a thought indicated
in Shakespeare’s
If all were minded so, the times should cease,
And threescore years would make the world away.
Thus Puhi-huia voices the Greek plaint of
mankind against Pate :
“ But was the evil mine ? Did I determine that
Tiki should be a man, or that Arohi-rohi should
be a woman ? No; it was the act of the gods.
Those gods are your progenitors ; and if 1 now
follow in the footsteps of Arohi-rohi, do I commit
wrong ? She took the man of her choice, and
from her yon are sprung, from her you receive
your sacredness. If I have done wrong, she did
wrong also; yet had she remained unwed, you
were none of you here; not one of you would
have seen the light of this world. Or you, having
been born, had none of you taken wives or hus-
bands, then I had never been born. But having
been born, am I guilty of the evil ? Is it wrong
that I follow in your steps, taking as husband the
man that I love ? ”
In a treatise upon what, in the not too distant
future, will possibly be the language of a great
portion of our continent, Walter Hillier remarks
that, in the British Consular Service in China,
every man must spend two years of constant study
of the Chinese language in Peking, and yet, so
difficult is the language that, “ at the end of this
two years’ course, there is not one of them who
could personally conduct a correspondence in
Chinese, translate an official document without
the aid of a dictionary, or speak with sufficient
fluency to act as an interpreter where important
negotiations were concerned. Before they can
reach this standard of proficiency, they have
at least five or six years before them.”
The reason is that there are forty thousand
words in the Chinese language, and each charac-
ter is pronounced as a syllable, and there are only
four hundred syllables. Thus each syllable must
represent a vast array of meanings. Consequently
variations of the same sounds are effected by their
pronunciation in different tones or inflexions of
the voice. The word chi, pronounced in the
even tone, means “a chicken,” in the rising
tone “impatient,” in the falling tone “to
shove,” in the abrupt tone, “to take note of.”
So if you order a chicken you may get a shove.
Once a deputation of native gentlemen waited on
the Governor of Hong Kong, and in their address
spoke of England as kwei kwo, or “ your honorable
country.” The interpreter, who was a well-known
scholar, thought the deputation had pronounced
the kwei in the third tone, when the phrase would
mean “your devil country.” Being naturally
angry at the application of this term to his native
land, he indignantly drove the deputation from
the Governor’s presence ; and it was not until the
correctness of the tone had been explained that
the deputation was readmitted. All this seems
an additional argument for a White Australia.


A
we
High-Grade Electro-Plated Ware
At AMTHONY HORPERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 1019—Tilting- Kettle and Stand, Electro-
Plate on Britannia Metal, choice design. 35/-
No. 1067 —Handsome Salad Bowl, Painted
Porcelain, Electro-Plated Mounts,
with Service to match, 24/-
m
I
No. 100 S—Single Jam Jar, Electro-Plate on
Britannia Metal, Crystal Glass Jar, 16j-
No. 1012—Jam Jar, Electro-Plate on Britannia
Metal, Crystal Class Jar, 74/-
No. 976 —Biscuit, Butter, and Cnee.-e Stand,
Painted Porcelain, Electro-Plai ed Mounts,
with Knife and Fork, 77/6.
Best Quality
Electro=Plate
lasts longer than
inferior, besides
ensuring con=
stant satisfaction
No. 1071 —Epergnes, Electro-Plated on Britannia Metal,
Engraved Glass Vase and Dish, height about 18in., 40/-
No. 106S —Hairpin Box, Electro-Plated on Britannia Metal,
Satin lined, Chased, 7/3.
m
No. IOJo —Jewel Cas'-et, Electro-Plated on Britannia Metal,
Satin lined, chased design, 19/-
-Cake Basket, Blectro-Plated on Britannia Metal handsome design,
Satin Chased, 28/-
For Christmas
and All Seasons
of the Year
No 1003—Revolving Batter Cooler, Electro-Plated on Britannia
Metal, Chased Design, 39/6.
No 1047 —Entree Dishes, oval, Electro-Plated
on Nickel Silver, 10in., 56/- pair.
h
Send for
Our
Illustrated
Price Lists
cf
Seasonable
and Useful
Presents,
Post Free
on
application
No. 975—Elegant
Card Receiver,
Electro - Plate,
Prettily Chased,
1816.
Other Designs,
14/6, 16/6,
No. 989-
Silver, 2
—Combination Fiame, Electro-Plated on Nickel
Esc- Cups and Spoons, Gold lined, Butter Dish
and Knife, 1816.
No. 1020—Sugar Basin and Scoop, Electro-
plate on Britannia Metal, handsomely
Engraved, 19/6.
No. 998—Dinner Cruet, Electro-Plate on
Nickel Silver, 6 Cut-Glass Bottles, 46/6.
Send for GUIDE TO
PICCANINNIES'
PARADISE;
Also for Christmas
Grocery List, Post
Free on Application,
No. 1049— Entree Dishes, oblong shape, E.P. on
Nickel Silver, 10in., choice design, 85/- pair.
No. 990—Single Pickle Jar, Electro-
Plated on Britannia Metal Frame,
Cover and Tongs, Glass Jar, 14/6.
No. 1024— China Biscuit Barrel,
floral design, Electro-Plate on
Nickel Silver, 10b
[rW%
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
(SYDNEY, N.iS.W.


ĥ
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
I SYDNB y.
Wool, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS who pay special Attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered pro p y.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free stora D e of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.’
Will Andrade for BOOKS-
ħ
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all. Zoi.a’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds'
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron ok
Boccaccio, 2/<i. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of tiie
First Night, 1/3. Booth a king and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, is. Fruits ok Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Kvery Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d.; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Bushranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. ThbCuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s Secrets of
the Romish Priests, 2s. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid's Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 1243 pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7s 6d posted. Dynamos and
Electric Motors, Is. ; post is. 3d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lud.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. How to Make Love, Is.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps, or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
h
ĥ
ME
ħ
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous, offer is a business proposition to nut a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods maybe appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and (in addition to the .Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
h
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
ĥ
Fountain Pen and send
instructions and we will
great offer is ohly open t<
Write at once.
you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
ar a limited time,
THE GTJTTA PERCH A TRADING CO.. 120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENO’S
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
HEADACHE,
FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT.’
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvelious.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
/ CAUTION.—<Sm Capsule marked ENO’S ' FRUIT SALT;' Without It you have a
WOKTHLBSS IMITATION.
Vnpaiad only by J. O. BNO, Ltd., • FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON, UNO.,
by J. o. UNO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, 6tc., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOKT.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
IB
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
NO MONEY WANTED
We have decided to give away 5.5000 in good and
useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Per\ny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
' Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
> Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
i Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
ħ
GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS to those who will distribute our
Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you
anv quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your f riends or keep for
your own use, and at any time within one month after you receive the Cards send us the amount <
iue to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good, <
useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Payment. Remember ! You <
may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever <
with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so. A '
Trial Solicited, simply send us vour Order for One, Two, Three, or up to Ten Dozen, and {
we will forward the Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to )
show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Presents we give away )
to our Agents.
THE TRADF,
SUPPLIED.
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W.
C.D. TAILOR-MADE O.D.
U CORSETS. 1#
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
h
ĥ
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immea*=
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance holdssway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles,
Ught as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets,
OBTAINABLE in all styles
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES
Jf any difficulty t'n procuring the correct
style, write for book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co.,
Flinders Lane, M ELBOURN
A. E. WITTEY, 75, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
DIABETES & BRIGHTS DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
wm
©ICXVXCiCIOJBifc
mmmiXQjmffl*
WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
ThP impprtant points ip a shotgun cartridge arq relip?
bility, pniformity pf loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities ppcj strength to withstand reloading?
All these virtues are found in Winchester (f Ngw Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
ARTEitt
ga&fers
I owns
ek IPOiLm
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorder*
iniure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin,
Remove the cause by using CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, and above all things, light Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS, Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of .
ħ


h
Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we. know that just a few doses of
Mger's
'Gherrii t/Peetoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.# Lowell, Mass.# U. S. A«
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
YOUR EYES!
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
m m
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5j The Bunch,
/ m Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [7
Voig'tlander’s
Binoculars.
h
The World’s Choicest Field
Glasses.
Compact, Portable,
High-Grade.
New Models
for
MILITARY, NAVAL,
SPORTING, OPERA, and
TOURIST USE.
SPECIAL BINOCULARS
for LADIES.
Light and Durable, BRILLIANT DEFINITION, and
MARVELLOUS MAGNIFICATION.
VOIGTLANDER’S BINOCULARS
are used by the WORLD’S EXPERTS, TELESCOPES, for
Military, Astronomical, and Sporting purposes.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTON AND CO. LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, entitled “ What Binocular
to Select.” Post Free.
"Dalli
j For Household Use. —To use it is the best,
: most simple and most comfortable way of
j ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
jbe used anywhere. Non-Inflammabie fuel
i without noxious fumes. No risk from fire ;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dallinette
(A Smaller “ Dalli.”)
For light work and travelling only.
| For general household work use the “ Dalli.”
i Having a larger ironing surface and greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked by:
F. Lassf.tter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Ask for Banning ton's
and seetkatyou get it
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
Foe LIVES COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS" says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity ”
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
ħ
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label. *
Beautiful Home Decorations
h
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
•■OCR FAVORITE” COM) I! \AM FI, (Washable) Rich. and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handlin g and washing
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied.
“SAPOIiUV EWAMEIiS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•* SAFOIAW” BATH TUB EIVAMEIi. In White, Rose, Ivory
and Nile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used In this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, ,r SAPOLIN ** FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALTJfIUNTJM ENAMEL, Etc.
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA.
ĥ
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH." Po **J3CmS •■■ t BS£ Ttk *
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a 'good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists., and Stores.
idade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
SAVES,
MANY LIVIES.
WORLD'S! CURE
Coughs, Colds,
Bronchitis, Asthma,
and other
Lung Troubles.
(Mirage
\/ Pnnn 'TRmK
£unglonic
The Old, but Up-to-date,
Remedy for
influenza
AND
Throat Weakness.
Ask for “ Owbridge.”
Take no other.
Established 1874.
COPYRIGHT.
PLASMON
COCOA
THE FOOD COCOA.
Builds up the Body,
because it contains a
much higher proportion
of actual nutriment
than ordinary Cocoa.
PLASMON OATS
THE 4 MINUTES’
PORRIDGE.
Free of every particle
of Hush and Fibre.
Furnish
perfect nourishment
with easy coo King.
PLASMON
SPECIALITIES
ARE CONDUCIVE
TO
GOOD HEALTH.
Ash for them..
|
L GROCERS, CHEMISTS
and STORES.
A
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Villanelle of Thursday Island.
“Sayonara, ” she sighed, and she flirted her fan,
As down by her lattice I sped to the shore.
The fair little, frail little Jade of Japan.
For the clank of the incoming cable began,
And the flaunting blue peter flew free atdbe fore;
“Sayonara,” she sighed, and she flirtecbher fan.
But time fled too q.uickly a campaign to.plan,
And chance there was none to abjure or adore
The fair little, frail little Jade of Japan.
So I blew just a Parthian kiss, as I ran,
To the gay little figure that bobbed in the door.
“ Sayonara,” she sighed, and she flirted her fan.
Though it shock you to say so, dear prim Puritan,
Once again I would see—as I saw her of yore—
The fair little, frail little Jade of Japan.
And hear her cry, faint as the fluting of Pan,
(But a note that could thrill to the innermost
core)—
“ Sayonara,” she sighed, and she flirted her fan—
The fair little, frail little Jade of Japan.
QUEENSLAND.
MACHETI.
Sing Me a Song.
Sing me a- song with the beat of the surf in it,
Roar of great combers borne down the wet breeze ;
Let there be thunder of hoofs on green turf in it,
Spurning the jniles in their rhythmical ease.
Sing me a song with a fierce note of strife in it,
Gleam of bright barrels, and stern steadfast eyes ;
Sing me a song with the sunshine of life in it,
Sing of the blue of God’s canopied skies.
Sing me a song of some great open space I love,
Whispering myalls on far stretching plains ;
There with my cheek pressed against the dear face
I love,
Bridles made music? with loose-hanging reins.
Sing the old garden >vith dim-scented fastnesses.
Gleam of white raiment that came o’er the lawn ;
Sing of the stars that grew pale in their vastnesses
As I rode happily home in the dawn.
Sing me a song with the fjlad mote of youth in it,
Days of past conquests by' field or by flood ;
Sing me a song with both honor and truth in it,
Sing of the courage that fires the young blood.
Sing of the true friends that .share of our sorrow
too,
Though bitter anguish their own hearts-may wring;
Friends of to-day that are friends of to-morrow
too — \
These are the songs I am longing tossing.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.
My Typiste.
I’m an awfully sensitive man.
And I move in exclusive society,
Moulding all my affairs on a plan
Based on goodness and perfect propriety..
I have not got a blot on my fame
(Or I had not until very recently);
Yet ray once stainless name—
I confess it with shame —
Has been dragged through the mire quite! ‘ in-
decently.
I’ve a typiste. A beautiful girl. |
With such cheeks! Ah! How peachy ?and
pink they are!
Her teeth are like mother-o’-pearl,
And like nectar her lips (or I think they; are).
She’s the kind of girl all men admire,.
For she’s perfect in figure and feature ;
At my special desire
She sings in the choir,
And in my Sabbath-school she’s a teacher.
If there’s aught should be free from the liar,.
And from slander be quite independent,
’Tis a maiden who sings.in the choir,
And a Sabbath-school Superintendent.
Alas ! Mud to the whitest robe clings,
Leaving stains on its natural purity.
And foul slander grief brings
To the sweetest of things,
Where—Oh ! where—is our moral security ?
I admit if I work back at night
That I can’t let her go without missing her;
But I strongly deny he was right
When the caretaker charged me with kissing her.
He’s a fraud ! When I gave him a crown,
He admitted his eyes had deceived him,
Yet he went round the town,
As he knocked the crown down,
Telling stories. And people believed him.
So remorseless is Rumor’s long tongue,
And so prone is mankind to malignity,
That my friends, both the old and the young,
Seem to treat me with studied indignity.
Why, the office boy grins when I speak,
Quite ignoring our social disparity.
While my clerk, once so meek,
Sticks his tongue in his cheek,
Scarcely trying to hide his hilarity.
Though again and again I’ve declared
That the stories are wicked inventions,
And the sweetest of things is prepared
To corroborate all my contentions,
Yet the people all credit the liar
And, his lie being in the ascendant,
The effect is most dire
To a girl in the choir
And a Sabbath-school Superintendent.
N.S.W.
THOS. E. SPENCER.


(5)
® Beautiful • durable
fIRE-PROOF • INEXPENSIVE
(
' ttasfra
r*
r
-JPA
o
irvs
M
o
T?-c>r;
o
A—rr-J^
Cllf
W t*'
WUNDERLICH
Ceilings, friezes.
I CORNICES. I — *
Wall Linings &]
Melbourne
.Queea 5t v
h
%
o>
v
V
O
<(/
*
a
CADBURY’S COCOA
' is the ideaJ beverage because it is rich
in strength-imparting essentials emd there-
fore promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
f
Tobacco
' nan u Facto red in
Richmond Virginia.
Larus& Brother C
Packed by R.fbwNS * Go. Agehte,Sydney.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot fret
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of 2oz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs
Scotch whisky
m
m
&
a
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
ĥ
ħ
h
n&
'ficfer/n/nator
» JSEVERfAHS.
HEAD OFFICE-MUTUAL Life BUILDING,MARTIN PLACE,SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereajrh Streets.
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON.~3d TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest
Parisian principle, suitable to be tvorn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telkmionk 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON CROUND FLOOR.
ĥ
ħ
RUBFROID ROOFING
3
■■■■
»' n v
. -I
i
iSpiiPift*
Wholesale Agents : K. RICH (EL CO., LTD., Sydney (EL Brisbane.
Over 3000
square feet
of 3-Ply jZ?
RUBEROID
laid on the
roof of
Messrs. L.
Hollander
and Sons’
Clothing
Fa<story,
Coulburn
St., Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Oiiice, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28.—N0. 1451.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1907.
Pkice 6d
KING CHELMSFORD I. OF QUEENSLAND.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every t week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special "Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all coiitri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mntotirs in. Made and White •
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgat.e Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A {tents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. xlUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole Advertising Agent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building, Wellington
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
77ie~5Bxxllefo]i.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1907.
THE CHELMSFORD GOVERNMENT IN
QUEENSLAND.
Every fresh point of consideration gives a more
sinister complexion to the revolutionary situation
in Queensland. The usurpation by Lord Chelms-
ford of despotic power over Parliament, in order
to maintain the Tory party in office, the more it
is examined, the more clearly it takes on the
aspect of a deliberate conspiracy against the self-
governing rights of the State. (Of course Lord
Chelmsford is the victim rather than the
leader in the matter.) The Tory party for
very many years held office in Queensland,
for so many years that the Government which
represented its interests came to be known as the
“Continuous Government.” Its personnel changed
frequently, owing to its system of absorbing in its
own corruption all Opposition talent that came to
the front. Its policy was always that of retro-
gression ; its administration always muddled and
ineffective. The country groaned, but had to
suffer in patience. There was no alternative to
the Continuous Government except a Labor
Government; and for some time the Labor party
in Queensland was associated with the wildest
extravagance of policy. But sweet reasonable-
ness began to modify the policy of that
party, and finally relief came when Mr.
Morgan decided to step down from the
Speaker’s chair and lead the Progressives
ni the Assembly, and with Mr. Kidston, of the
Labor party, a man of great ability and con-
spicuous moderation, formed a Government. It
was thought then, by observers of Australian
politics, that with the end of the Continuous
Government the Tory party had gone out of
office for ever. The correctness of this forecast was
being proved with each succeeding month until
the crisis of November brought the Tories
back to office, not by Parliamentary vote,
but by despotic exercise of royal power.
Now, what makes this development so
sinister is that the present affords the only
shadow of an opportunity for the Tories to snatch
a dishonest victory at the polls. A singularly
faulty Electoral Act is in operation. It gives great
opportunities for manipulation at the ballot-box
the “ postal vote” especially. It is now or never
with the Tories. They have seized the best of
opportunities to put their fortune to the test, and
Lord Chelmsford has been the instrument of
their designs.
* * * *
Still, it is not in the least degree likely that
a Tory electoral victory will follow the daring
revolution by which the Crown in Queensland
has become the partisan of a party. Even
were Queensland indifferent to Mr. Kidston
and the Labor party, yet democratic principles
are so firmly established in Australia that
anything would be preferred to a Chelms-
ford Administration. For that is practically the
position. It is Lord Chelmsford who goes to
the country asking warrant for a lawless usurpa-
tion of Parliamentary authority, seeking from the
people approval of a system by which their
Government would be chosen in future, not by
their representatives in the Legislature, but
by the Governor. It is unthinkable that any
Australian electorate, however Tory in spirit,
would deliberately endorse that appeal and thus go
back on the path towards a King-tyranny which
our forefathers freed themselves from with much
sacrifice. But there is always a danger that in
some quarters the issue will be confused. It is
satisfactory to note, therefore, that the Labor
party has decided to come to some electoral
arrangement with the Kidston party, so that
there will be no vote-splitting through two demo-
crats running against one despotist. The issue is
a great one, the greatest that has arisen in Aus-
tralian politics for many years, and all Australians
wish to see Queensland vindicate as decisively as
possible the self-governing rights of the people.
* * * *
What the electors should keep in mind is that
the attitude of Lord Chelmsford lias not been a
mere stretching of the royal prerogative, but an
absolute usurpation of power. When Mr.
Kidston advised him to appoint new members to
the Upper House, Lord Chelmsford might have
insisted on an appeal to the voters as a preliminary
step. That would have been wrong, according
to the precedents laid down by the Colonial
office, but it would have had the color of
legality. In sending for Mr. Philp on the resigna-
tion of Mr. Kidston, Lord Chelmsford was
undoubtedly right. But when an adverse vote
against Mr. Philp was carried as soon as he met
the House, Lord Chelmsford should then have
dismissed him, and he might then, sending for
Mr. Kidston, have insisted on a dissolution, and
have had some shadow of a claim to be within his
prerogative. But in keeping Mr. Philp in office
in spite of several hostile votes of the House, and
in determining to carry on the business of the
country without Supply, Lord Chelmsford
came clean out of the arena of constitutional discus-
sion. He took up the attitude of a Tudor or
a Stuart dismissing the Commons and carrying
on by illegal money levies. A robust Democratic
party will be needed in the new House to take up
a firm stand in the matter of those levies. Every
penny now taken from the Queensland Treasury
not covered by past Supply is appropriated
illegally. Constitutionally it is stolen. Unless
Parliament subsequently passes an Act of Indemni-
fication, every official responsible for paying; out a
shilling without the warrant of Parliament is per-
sonally and criminally liable. The Bulletin
would like to see now a steadily-formed and
sturdily-announced purpose on the part of the
Democrats that no such Bill of Indemnification
will be proposed. The Tories have usurped
power by a revolutionary move. Let it be made
clear to them now that they will have to pay for
their usurpation.
THE NEW PROTECTION.
It was not to be expected that so radical a de-
parture in the field of practical economics as that
which has been called the “New Protection”
could be made without evoking some protests,
without causing many alarms. Every reform has
to combat the forces of inertia, which withstand
change simply because it is change. The
Bulletin, which was originally responsible for
the idea of the “New Protection,” has not
the least doubt but that it will be ulti-
mately accepted and acclaimed by all reason-
able employers as well as employees. In
the meanwhile it must face and answer criticisms.
The root idea of the New Protection is that the
tariff is a national, not merely an industrial affair;
that it represents the chief arm by which the
State can secure the happiness of the people. The
New Protection goes further than attempting to
make industries economically possible ; it seeks to
enforce conditions on those industries which will
make them of the greatest possible value to the
nation, recognising all the while that the best
asset of a nation is its manhood. To the
New Protection, the foundation of a sweated-labor
industry is useless, except, perhaps, as a step
towards its quick development into a high-wage
industry ; and the chief product aimed at is not
goods but citizens. Once that is thoroughly
understood, a good deal of the criticism now
aimed at the principle will be recognised as either
mistaken or useless. The fair manufacturer, who
aims at having prosperous workers in a
prosperous factory, will see that there
is no hardship in asking him to pj/ good
wages whilst he is amply protected against
the competition of all cheap-labor employers. The
grasping capitalist, who sees in Protection a
chance to garner in illegitimate profits by employ-
ing cheap labor, and selling at dear-labor prices,
will recognise that his ideal is hopeless in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
The deputation from the Associated Chambers
of Manufacturers, which waited on Minister for
Customs Chapman to present resolutions pro-
testing against the New Protection, last
week, was encouragingly half-hearted. Mr.
Beale disavowed personal sympathy with
the protest. It represented not his views, but
those of a majority of the Chambers. Mr. Joshua
was careful to say that the New Protection wages
fixed in his industry were fair, and had been loyally
paid. The deputation indeed seemed to have
come not so much to protest as to be reassured.
One solid grievance Mr. Joshua brought forward.
In the agricultural instruments industry, two
different wages awards have been made under
the New Protection system—one for South Aus-
tralia, the other for Victoria. The result is
that Victorian manufacturers are called upon to
pay higher wages than the South Australians.
That should be stopped. The essence of the
New Protection system is that a fair minimum
wage should be enforced equally all over Aus-
tralia (with possibly special increments for places
where the conditions of life are unduly hard).
Then the fair-wage manufacturer of one State-
cannot be under-sold by the low-wage manu-
facturer of another State; the low-wage foreign
manufacturer can be kept the other side
of the tariff wall. In the agricultural imple-
ments industry a just wage should be finally deter-
mined and then enforced in all the States without
distinction.
* * * *
Until the Federation can get full control of the
subject of industrial regulation, there will be some
difficulties in enforcing the New Protection by
the Excise expedient which has been adopted.
Those difficulties represent the price statesman-
ship has to pay for good intentions. I hey are
unavoidable, and must be surmounteQ. J.ney
constitute no reason at all for hesitancy in carrying
out the new policy. The Australian democracy
is resolved that the essential basis of every indus-
try is the citizen. The increase of well-paid
citizens able to marry and keep comfortable homes
is not a side issue, but the actual aim of the New
Protection. The manufacturers who are most
prompt to recognise that will be the first to get
their undertakings on a solid and settled basis.
The manufacturers who cannot see things from
that point of view may as well decide now to make
way for other and more reasonable men. Aus-
tralia has no room for the high-tariff and low-wage
capitalist.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The High Commissioner.
It is evident that this session of the Australian
Parliament will close without any definite action
being taken for the appointment of a High Com-
missioner for the Commonwealth. If at the very
inauguration of the Federation the first Govern-
ment had taken the view that the necessity of having
representation of Australian interests in London
was so pressing as to warrant it in anticipating
Parliamentary authority for the expense, and
appointing a High Commissioner by executive
warrant, there would have been no possibility of
reasonable objection. A nation does not really
take form and being until its authority is repre-
sented at those chancelleries abroad where its
interests are concerned. The Australian nation,
being under a suzerain power which has full con-
trol over its foreign affairs, has necessity for only
one diplomatic agent outside its boundaries, but
the necessity for that one is most exigent. It
would not be possible to calculate how much
Australia has already lost from the lack of
adequate representation in London. In the
matter of domestic policy alone the evil work of
the “Stinking Fish” Party would probably have
been checked at the outset by a capable
High Commissioner, who could have pointed out
that, so far from Australia’s Immigration Restric-
tion policy showing a petulant disregard for
Imperial interests, it was, as a matter of fact,
suggested, almost dictated, by a masterful British
Minister, Joseph Chamberlain ; and who could
have exposed the lie that British workers of good
character were not wanted here, and thus have
diverted a stream of immigration to these shores.
In foreign policy it is perhaps too much to hope
that the weight of Australian warning would
have been sufficient to prevent Great Britain
from entering into thedangerous Japanese alliance.
But an Australian representative might at the
outset have suggested doubts and difficulties
which since have been justified with experience,
and have thus at least won for his country a repu-
tation for diplomatic prescience which would
have been useful in future negotiations. In
smaller matters of foreign policy the Australian
High Commissioner would have had scope for
many triumphs. He might have stopped the
bitterly cruel and unjust sacrifice of Aus-
tralian interests in the matter of the Bush-
veldt Carbineers (S’Africa). He might have
secured some attention to Australian interests in
the various questions regarding Oceania which have
been arising lately. All this is of the obvious
work that one can see might have been done. In
addition, there would have been, it is fair to pre-
sume, many hundreds of opportunities which a
keen and intelligent representative of Australia
might have seized to advance the interests of the
Commonwealth. But all have been sacrificed to
the sordid political intrigues which made it “ bad
policy” to appoint a suitable man because of
the offence that would have given to unsuitable
aspirants. One or two persons have attempted
to do something to fill the pressing need
with what poor advocacy cf Australia was possible
without official prestige or warrant. B. It. Wise
for some years now has been a sort of private
High Commissioner in London, never allowing a
slander to go unchallenged, or an opportunity to
put things in the right light to slip by. But his
was, after all, only a private voice, and it cried in
a wilderness. N.S. W. Agent-General Cogiilan, in
spite of the fact that he represented a State Govern-
ment which is conspicuous in slandering Australia,
has managed to put in a good and wise word
for the Commonwealth. Ex-Senator Matheson
has also been known in advocacy of Australia.
But nothing could compensate for the want of
official representation. In every case affecting
Australian interests in London, judgment has
been allowed to go by default. And that policy,
seemingly, is to continue indefinitely, until the
politicians can settle on what appointment will
best suit party interests.
The Miserable Kum of Sydney!
The famous Lamentation "> of Jeremiah are cheer-
ful reading compared to tee daily foreign-tra,de
papers’ account of how the Ma State and City
have gone to the dogs under the combined in-
fluence of Federation and the tariff. Get on
board a tram-car, ride through the streets of
Sydney town, and test the statement. From the
Central Railway Station one is whirled into
Castlereagh-street, which, at the dawn of Federa-
tion, and for some while afterwards, was a
collection of filthy slums, an Alsatia given over
to the scum of the city, where the pavement
woman and the night thief mingled with the
Chinese, and the black and tan of all climates.
Everywhere now one sees (demolished hovels being
carted away, and preparations made for
the building of fine new buildings. The
firm of S. T. Leigh and Cos. is erecting a
factory which will accommodate hundreds of
hands. Mark For is rearing a huge shop which
will be a landmark, and occupy the best part of a
block. All along the way fresh new buildings
of brick and stone are replacing dens of vice and
cheap doss houses. Or let the man who left
Sydney just before Federation take a run down
George-street, and consider some of the
palatial places that have been erected during
his absence. He will see two extra stories
on David Jones’s emporium, he will note with a
backward glance the fine Bank of Australasia, he
will see the beautiful Challis House erected for
the University in Martin Place approaching com-
pletion. Round the corner of a street, as he
whizzes past, looms the huge red brick pile of
Henry Bull and Cos., eight stories high ; and the
brown, gigantic outline of John Sands’ new
factory vgill make him exclaim in admiration.
Further on he will see that the firm of Hordern
Bros., which stayed in Pitt-street all the
years before Federation, has broken right through
to George-street; and further on Farmer and Cos.
have done likewise. Away down Brickfield-hill
he will see the vastest pile of them all, Anthony
Hordern and Sons’ Palace Emporium; and
beyond it the steeple-like building of Marcus
Clark and Cos.; while beyond that the, sun
shines on the great dome of Grace Brothers’ new
store. These are only a few of the larger and
more elaborate of the new buildings—there are
scores of others too numerous to mention,
such as that pile half-a-block long in Hunter-
street ; Dalgety’s new building in Bent-street;
the new palace, where the Colonial Sugar Cos.
now carries on its business. And people do
not sink hundreds of thousands of pounds in
buildings in a city that is on the decline. Roughly,
according to the Master Builders’ Association, 11
new buildings are started in Sydney every day,
and for the year 1906 the number was 4088, which
when completed were assessed by the Water and
Sewerage Board at an annual rent value of £180,646.
The Water and Sewerage Board reckons that the
rental value is 6 per cent, on the value of land and
buildings, so the value of the buildings erected in
1906, and the land on which they were built, is
£3,010,766 ; and allowing that the value of build-
ings is only half the total (two-thirds would be
fairer estimate), it means that during the year
just ended over one-and-a-half-million pounds of
new buildings were erected in the ruined city.
It’s a curious sort of ruin.
The Advantage of Going Often to the
Pawnshop.
The Owe’Sullivan is incorrigible. He asked an
audience last week to consider what a magnificent
stroke of business it is to borrow money at per
cent, and spend it on railways and tramways which
give a return of 6 per cent. Well, for a start,
where are those 6 per cent, railways and tram-
ways? N. S. Wales railways never had such a
year as 1906-7; yet the return was under 5 per
cent. In Tasmania the return was under 2 per
cent.; in Maoriland, under 3g per cent. As for
trams, the Manly line, which was one of the
Owe’Sullivan works, has never paid one farthing
of interest—outside the city lines, very few of his
trams have. In 1902-3, which was one of the Owe’-
Sullivan years, all that the public undertakings
of N. S. Wales had left over after paying working
expenses was £1,509,752. N. S. Wales then owed
Cohen £71,592,485. The actual return was, there-
there, £2 2s. 2d. per cent.—which is only 6 per
cent, in an Owe’Sullivan way of speaking.
Instead of borrowing at 3J per cent, and using the
money to earn 6 per cent., N. S. Wales borrowed
money at nearer 3f per cent., and, even with the
Owe’Sullivan to manage things, only earned a
shade over 2 per cent. The interest actually
earned was £1,509,752, while the Owe’Sullivan’s
6 per cent, would mean £4,295,549 ; and between
£1,509,752 and £4,295,549 there is a pound or two
of difference. Why will the Owe’Sullivan spoil
the materials out of which a good and much-
needed type of politician could be made, by hum-
bugging himself on this pawnshop subject ?
Brisbane “Courier’s” £1,000,000 Capitalist.
Five times within the last five months or so
Brisbane Courier has alleged, with a blare of
headlines, that it knew of a capitalist with
£IOO,OOO having been scared off investments in
Queensland by the Kidston policy. Four times
the Courier didn’t give any particulars about its
scared man of money. But in a moment of reck-
lessness it gave the name of its fifth £IOO,OOO
capitalist, and that caused all the trouble,
for at last it became possible to make
some definite inquiries. The capitalist on this
occasion was supposed to represent a vast Sydney
syndicate. He asked, as a concession, for a
lease of about 300 square miles of Frazer Island,
containing some valuable timber. He proposed,
in return, to take over the maintenance of the
aborigines on the Island. (The Island is used as
a reserve for them.) He was to be allowed
to work the natives, but was to support
and pay them. Bell, then Minister for
Lands, smelt something ; so, as a feeler, he
asked for an interview with the capitalist s prin-
cipal. Then the fun began. The capitalist fumed
and raged about delay, waste of valuable time, the
shock to capital’s nerves, and other irrelevant
In Darwin’s Page.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They doubt, do some, if Darwin told
The truth in yonder pages,
Wherein he traced our pedigree
Through countless, countless ages ;
They say no mortal but a fool
Would take for an Evangel
The book of him who found an ape
Where once we found an angel!
And yet the keen, observant eye
May clearly see the traces
Of some such lowly origin
In daily forms and faces;
The claw that clutched in greed, and clung,
I fancy sometimes lingers
And leaves a mark—whene’er I see
Old Cent.-per-centum’s fingers.
The fiendish men who deal in blood
Of slaves on Nile and Niger,
How can their kinship doubted be
To striped and hungry tiger ?
And if we scorn the tale that tells
We’re kin to grim hyaena,
What beasts were they who gazed upon
Or fought in Rome’s arena ?
In ev’ry mart ye daily see
The teeth of slimy saurian,
Ye mark how man his fellow-men
Can run to earth and foray on ;
And surely ne’er a sailing hawk
Could ever match the greed of him
Who grinds his mate with usury
And fattens on the need of him.
The jackdaw’s mean and petty pride,
The peacock’s flaming vanity,
Do we not know them rooted well
In this our poor Humanity ?
And men who swill them like the swine—
Is not their number pitiful ?
And men with no more thought than kiue,
Ye find them by the cityful.
And as ye mark, and read, and think,
And see how Man the Drover
Is near akin to them he drives,
And them he feeds in clover,
Ye scarce can wonder Darwin dreamed
’Twas through an earthly portal
The Race of Man emerged below,
And not through one immortal.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


matters. Pressed hard, he explained that his
principal was absent in Japan. Now, the man
who tries to get a concession on the strength of an
uncle in Fiji or a principal in Japan ought not to
apply to either Kidston or J. T. Bell, Kidston 8
Lands Minister. That, however, was the capi-
talist’s mistake; he evidently thought he was
dealing with a Philp Administration. Ihe
Department refused point-blank to have any
further dealings with the capitalist whose prin-
cipal was in Japan. Thereupon an irate person
burst down Queen-street, and the delighted
Courier spread his woes and Kidston’s out-
rageous misconduct over two and a half columns.
By this time the Lands Department began
to get annoyed; but before it had time to
say much, a firm of Brisbane timber mer-
chants (Brow and Broad) wrote to the
Courier stating that on a certain date (mentioned)
the £IOO,OOO capitalist had tried to sell to them
for cash a concession on Frazer Island, which the
Minister had just promised to him ; from which it
appeared that the Courier’ g £IOO,OOO capitalist
actually tried to get rid of his concession before
he had really secured it. The Courier was even
then ass enough not to let the matter drop. That
woke Bell right up. He took off the gloves, and
the next thing that the poor, busted old Courier
had to print about the matte,r was a Ministerial
statement, backed up by papers, which were
ordered by the House to be printed, showing that
the Courier’s £IOO,OOO capitalist “was a man
who had served four terms of imprisonment.”
The papers also contained some further official
information about his character. After that there
was d,ead silence in the Courier office—while the
malignant old dodderer tucked away the leg that
had been pulled so shamefully.
♦
The Encouragement of the Infant
Immigrant.
Maoriland Government recently ukased that
married men in the Public Service should receive
larger salaries than single ones for similar work.
The idea is to encourage matrimony and conse-
quent jncrease of the population. It is a good
idea, and need not stop short with the members of
the Public Service. Also it is not altogether anew
scheme. Over a century ago, the Parliament of
England, recognising that children were a most
valuable asset, passed laws by which the parents
of large families could obtain bounties every
month for their maintenance from the county
funds, and the system remained in force till the
Government discovered that brutal employers
used to deduct a corresponding amount from the
wages of men who received the allowances. (Curi-
ously enough, this was cited by Herbert Spencer
as an instance of the uselessness of legislating
to protect the workers: whereas it was merely
an instance of the urgent necessity of doing some-
thing sudden to the brutal employer.) A child
allowance scheme is the natural corollary of an
Old Age Pension scheme. Looking at the matter
from the individualistic standpoint, man is
tempted to ask why he should burden himself with
the heavy task of rearing and educating children
from whom he will receive little or no material
benefit. One reason why the birthrate, has re-
mained high in certain parts of England is that a
child is an asset. But in Australia, so far, we
have not allowed child slavery, in the cities, at
least. Therefore, the married are tempted to
restrict their families for the sake of their own
material comfort. It would be good business on
the part of the State to use every means available
to hold out encouragements in the other direction.
Fruitful parents should find rewards in preference
of employment, in remission of taxation, in the
provision of free midwifery homes, and in direct
bonuses, if necessary.
The Yes-No of the “Argus.”
In its issue of November 27 the Argus announces
that its weekly, the Australasian, is about to
publish a special edition, advertising Victoria and
its resources. This edition, says the Argus, will
give information for immigrants :
It is pointed out in one of theopening paragraphs that
in a country with only 14 people to the square mile, as
against 558 in England, 137 in Ireland, and 150 in Scot-
land .. . there must be room for more people, and a
promising field for the employment of additional capital
and labor. . . . Population is wanted to make the most of
our resources.
Then, on the very next page of the same issue,
there is printed
Land Hunger.
3000 Applicants for 260 Blocks.
Shepparton : A Small Holdings Board sat here on Mon-
day and Tuesday. .. . There are only 260 allotments
available for 2000 or 3000 applicants. . . . The Board was
impressed with the type of the applicants, all of whom
were men in the prime of life, in full work, at low wages.
Bent made a well-meaning attempt to provide a
big slice of capital land on the Western Plains a
few weeks ago, and the Argus then informed him
severely that the supply of land from private
subdivisions was fully equal to the demand.
Also, any hint of a iand-tax, with a view to
hastening on the cutting up of the big estates,
sends the Argus into hysterics. In view, there-
fore, of the great rush of farmers for the Shepparton
land—and this is typical of what happens whenever
there are a few decent blocks available —isn’t it
time the Argus explained definitely where it is
going to place its immigrants when it gets them ?
+
Japan’s Industrial System.
Writes a correspondent from Nagasaki, Japan :
There is probably no country in the world where in-
dustrial disquietude is more general and menacing than
in Japan to-day. In the past it has been either sup-
pressed or ignored by the authorities, and treated with
callous indifference by the masters of industry, but the
attitude of the working classes is now such that they can
be no longer neglected.
Japanese industrialism is a soulless machine, in which
the worker is ground to a degree that would not be
tolerated in any country where those that hear the
burden of industry were intelligently and sufficiently
organised to protect themselves. And woman, being the
cheaper vessel, suffers most. Strikes and other mani-
festations of discontent have broken out in all lines of
industry and among all classes of workers lately.
In some instances, as in the case of miners, the outbreaks
were so furious as to result in murderous rioting and wan-
ton destruction of extensive property. In cotton fac-
tories, where one would expect conditions of labor to
have reached the most modern development, the strikes
were no less frequent than among the operatives in other
spheres ; and even the Government naval yards were not
exempt.
In Japan of late there has been an abnormal increase of
the cost of living, without any corresponding increase in
the matter of wages. The war, with its attendant heavy
expenditure of ready money, made good times ; but after
the excitement was over, and the g-lory of battles began
to dissolve into a burden of unbearable taxation, demand-
ing no less than £6 from every family in the empire, con-
ditions were abruptly reversed. In the last five years the
cost of living has gone up over 20 per cent., while wages
and salaries are not higher than they were 10 years ago.
All strikes during the past year have been for an increase
of wages. Imagine the employees of the Liverpool or
Boston post office all going put on strike for a living
wage, and you have what occurred in Osaka a little
time ago.
Examine briefly the labor conditions in Tokyo, where
the highest wages in the empire are paid. There a
cotton ginner at best can make only a shilling a day ; and
over most of the country they have to be content with
less. Thousands of female factory operatives get not
much more than 6d. a day. This was hardly a living
wage a year ago ; but it is less to-day. The highest
wages a Tokyo carpenter can command are 2s. a day,
with less outside the capital. Taking Tokyo as repre-
senting the maximum wage, we have, to mention a very
few examples, tilers getting Is. 8d ; plasterers, Is. lid. ;
bootmakers, Is. ; laborers, lOd. And in the last year,
rice, which is one of the most essential articles of food to
a Japanese, went up in price to double the rate of the 12
months previous.
There are no laws regulating the hours of labor. In
some cases, as on railways, 24 consecutive hours are the
rule. This excessive strain upon the workman is doubt-
less responsible for the increasing frequency of accidents
on Japanese railways. Often as one passes a station at
night the whole staff appears to be asleep, and probably
is. Factory operatives usually work from 7 a.m. to
6 p.m., with a few minutes at noon for a bit of rice to eat.
But the Japanese is accustomed to long hours, and condi-
tions would have to be very extraordinary in this respect
before he would eomplain.
Most of the factory workers are women, for the greater
part young girls ; and these suffer much from the con-
stant strain of time and activity. They are drawn chiefly
from the poorer classes, and are usually ignorant and
wholly at the mercy of the foreman or employer. It is
said that the lot of the Japanese factory girl is the
hardest known to woman ; she is engaged in a toil that is
physically exhausting; her mere pittance keeps her
underfed, and she is without either protection or sympa-
thy. The old personal feeling of interest and responsi-
bility that existed between employer and employee
formerly has disappeared. Perhaps this accounts to some
deg Tee, even if it does not extenuate, the freedom with
whieh the poorer classes sell their daughters to lives of
shame, rather than let them become the industrial slaves
of the rich.
Owing to the increasing amount of hostile criticism
which the Japanese factory system is receiving from
missionaries and other foreigners, especially in regard to
the matter of female and child labor, some of the
managers are advertising the inauguration of opportuni-
ties for education and recreation among their employees ;
but those who have kept a close eye on the course of
events declare that this is a mere subterfuge to deceive
the outside world. The system is seldom put into opera-
tion except for the interest of visitors, the regular time
that the girls are permitted for self-improvement or
recreation being practically nil. I know of but one
factory where any general altruistic consideration may
be said to govern the attitude of the capitalists to the
operatives—the Sakura Gumi leather factory at Senju,
near Tokyo.
To a foreigner the most shocking aspect of the Japanese
industrial system is the absolute indifference of managers
to the unnecessary risk and exposure to which the
operatives are constantly subjected. The alarming loss
of life, that results from accidents in the industrial
circles of Japan from week to week, could no doubt be
much reduced by a little precaution. In the Mitsu Bishi
naval yards, at Nagasaki, the writer has often wondered
how the thousands there employed could all crowd into
the few lighters to be ferried across the harbor every even-
ing. The other day, however, he was not surprised to
see one upset, and plunge hundreds of struggling men
and women into the sea, resulting in considerable
loss of life. In an Osaka arsenal hundreds of
women were employed taking the powder from old
oartridges left from thp late war; a match was
dropped, causing an explosion that killed 49 women at
once, and the subsequent fire and explosions killed a
great many more. There was no supervision adequate to
warp of the danger of using matches ip such a place.
Such accidents are too common in Japan to be justly con-
sidered unpreventible.
But there are indications that the people now are being
gradually aroused to seek their rights. The old Japanese
idea was that it is the chief duty of the people to be quiet,
and let the superior wisdom of their rulers make them
happy and content. In i-eturn, they were to pay their
taxes, and, in the spirit of Bushido, fight for their country
in time of war. But there is now a growing discontent.
That discontent may be the forerunner of social and
industrial improvement.
♦
Bloat.
Whenever the Protectionist points out openings
for new industries, some cocksure ass always
brays back, “ Well, why don’t you go and do it ? ”
The overhauling of the affairs of William Sand-
ford, Limited, the pioneers of the Australian
iron and steel industry, ought at least to stop
that bray for a while. For the Sandfords,
though they have long contracts from the
State Government on very favorable terms, find
themselves so completely driven into a corner
that they have had to go to the State for help;
and independent experts are so convinced that the
new industry must collapse without the backing
asked for, that the Government has agreed to
advance £70,000, subject to Parliamentary
sanction. Wm. Sandfoed has spent almost a
lifetime struggling with the business, and
all the occasional profits have been sunk
in the undertaking; yet because most of the
time he has had to struggle against the
foreign competitor whom Freetrade has let in,
he has really made so little progress that he and
his company now find themselves with an over-
draft of more than £130,000, and a banker who
says that his limit has been reached. The
Freetrade papers and politicians have made the
N. S. Wales public familiar with the idea of
the Bloated Manufacturer. And here we have
him in the flesh—driven into a corner, after
nearly a lifetime spent in establishing the in-
dustry which is indispensable to every prognessive
country; weighted with an overdraft of £130,000 ;
faced by a banker who will go no farther, and
probably believes that he has gone too far already ;
met with a deaf ear when he appeals to the pri-
vate investor to come in and share his bloatedness ;
and told by the chief organ of the Bloated Manu-
facturer perjury that none of its friends, the
importers, supposing they borrowed money from
a bank, would dream of putting up with such con-
ditions as those to which the Sandfords are pre-
pared to submit in connection with this transaction
with the State. Whatever may be said about the
manner in which the Government proposes to help
the Sandfords, let us hope that we shall not hear
any more about the Bloated Manufacturer for a
while. It is time he went to the bulging grave-
yard where the other myths of the anti-Australian
party have been set to rest.
Patents and Manufactures.
“ The Gunyah ” writes re the power of the foreign
patentee to block industry by neither manufac-
turing himself in Australia nor allowing anybody
else to manufacture his patented article (“The
Wheel and the Tariff,” B. 14/11/’O7): —
Section 87 of the Fe,deral Patents Act, which deals
with this question, provides that, after the expira-
tion of two years from the date of the lodgment
of the patent, any person may petition the Com-
missioner or the Court for the grant of a compul-
sory license to use the offending patent, or, in the
alternative, for the revocation of the patent; and, pro-
\ iding it be proved to the Court’s satisfaction that the
“ reasonable requirements ” of the public are not satis-
fied, power is given for the granting of licenses. By the
term “reasonable requirement” is meant (1) if the
patentee fails to work or import his patented article
within the Commonwealth to an adequate extent to
satisfy public demands, or (2) if he refuses to grant a
license to use or manufacture the article except under
terms that are unreasonable and oppressive to any existing
industry.
This latter part was included at the instance of a
Labor member, who in careering after votes in his con-
stituency, which is essentially the headquarters of the
Melbourne bootmaking industry, gained an insight
into the. existing hardships inflicted upon boot manu-
facturers by a certain American boot machinery co. If
a boot manufacturer desires to instal one of this com-
pany’s machines in his factory, before he is even per-
mitted to gaze on the same he has to sign a document as
long as George Reid’s promises, as tricky as a hatful of
monkeys, and as binding as the Commonwealtlj Constitu-
tion. This document sets forth (1) that the machine is
only lent out on hire, (2) that the hirer has to employ cer-
tain men supplied by the eo. to watch the running of the
machine, and (3) should a part get broken he must
purchase a replica from the co. and no one
else. W. Lyne, the other day, drew attention to
this section, and stated it was optional for any person to
tackle the co. under this clause. No doubt ; but who is
going to tackle such a wealthy co. in the courts? Sup-
pose the private person gained the day, the co. would
immediately appeal and appeal. The only person
directly interested is the boot manufacturer (although
the public has to pay in the end), and under the terms of
the hire of the machine he is bound hand and foot. Even
were he to break his agreement and tackle the co., the
latter would first of all withdraw the hired machines
from his factory, which he would then have to close
down, and as the law is no Poseidon he would probably
be either bankrupt or an angel before the case came on
for hearing. If licenses were granted under terms that
were not oppressive and unreasonable, boots manu-
factured in Australia would come down fully 30 per cent.,
for the machine to build and instal costs just about as
much as the manufacturer pays for the hire for 12 months.
The only way out of the difficulty is for the Common-
wealth Government to leg-rope this and similar com-
panies under the Patents Act.
+
Australia’s Stomach.
There are agitations from time to time in this
country to bring about most things, from Secesh
and the total abolition of Australian manufac-
tures, to the filling of the country with China-
men and niggers. There is one urgent circum-
stance, however, that no one seems to agitate
about with much enthusiasm —namely, that of
Australia’s stomach. Excited representatives of
the importing interests group themselves in the
streets around a flag once a year, and blather ear-
nestly about the health of the Empire; but they
don’t show much concern for the health of the
people that make up the Empire. Australia is a
favored no one will starve in fairly
good times unless he decides he would rather do
that than rise up and get a hustle on him. The
conditions of the Freetrade United Kingdom,
where, according to the present British Premier,
one-fourth of the total population is always ailing
for lack of food, will never obtain in the Common-
wealth so long as a rational fiscal and land
system is adhered to. But there are other
things nearly as fatal to mankind as not
assimilating sufficient food; and one of them
is assimilating too much food, and another is
assimilating the wrong sort of food. Australia’s
tendency is in the two latter directions. The
amount Australians don’t know, and don’t seem
to want to know, about their internal arrange-
ments is extensive. The quantity they don’t
know about the things they eat, but shouldn’t, is
simply vast and immeasurable. Daily lecturers in
State schools on indigestion, dyspepsia, and liver
troubles, with details as to how such complaints
are best obviated, would do a lot of good for the
coming generation of mostly meat-eating Aus-
tralians. And after the Tory person had said his
little piece in opposition, and pointed out
that nothing of the sort was done in Eng-
land, and that, anyhow, it was indelicate
and disgusting, and, in fact, immoral,
to openly discuss people’s innards, the new
addition to the State school curriculum would
probably become rather popular. Anyhow, in
the welter of local agitations there should be
roeni for one advocating reform along these lines.
The formation of a society for the express pur-
pose of making Australia better acquainted with
its stomach would be novel, and full of valuable
possibilities.
Landlords and Rabbits.
“T.A.W.” writes :
Asa person who has spent a good many years of a
moderately sober life in and around the Wagga (N.S.W.)
district—a district having its full share of the twin curses
of rabbits and big landlords —I give the palm to the
second a§ the champion destructive pest in all things
except that they are not so prolific.
When the Pastures Protection Board.B were instituted
they were armed with power to enforce active and
effective measures for rabbit destruction, and in the dis-
trict of which I speak—as in other districts—rabbit
inspectors were appointed. The result was that the
small farmer was compelled, under pain of heavy fines, to
keep his poison-cart orfumigatorgoingpretty constantly,
the effect, as far as the small holdings were concerned,
being decidedly had for the rabbit. The big landlord,
however, was easily able—no doubt by judicious palm-
greasing—to persuade the inspector that a couple of
poison-carts standing in the homestead yard were quite
sufficient guarantee against the existence of rabbits on
his property, and the inspector never took the trouble to
go and look, and see for himself—or, if he did, he conve-
niently failed to see anything. Thus, on the big holdings
the rabbits increased and multiplied, and as soon as the
small man relaxed his efforts in the way of destruction,
to get in his crop or for any other purpose, they spread
thence over his land, and the weary fight had to com-
mence all over again, It was very little use the small
man complaining to the Pastures Protection Board.
Much of the Pastures Protection Board was big landlord
or his manager, and it naturally preferred to listen to
the tale of its own inspector as against that of the small
farmer. It is two or three years since I left the Wagga
district, but although one or two of the big estates there
have now been subdivided, I believe the weary old
struggle is still going on.
In regard to wire-netting as a protection against rab-
bits, all experience goes to show that it is only a very
slight check to the pest, and its cost is such that very
few farmers consider the gain worth the outlay. Unless
the ground is as hard as granite, and the netting
buried deep, bunny will burrow under it. Also the
rotten imported netting quickly develops holes, which
bunny is much more adept at finding than is the
farmer, and if there is no way of getting under or
through it, he has been known—definitely known, mind
—to climb over it. So that, whilst the big estate remains
as a breeding-ground for the rabbit, dozens of him
will always be getting past the farmer’s netting' fence and
on to his land, and, as the rabbit is perhaps the most
prolific beast on the face of the earth, if the farmer
leaves those few dozens alone for four or five months he
will find, at the end of that time, that he has as many
rabbits on his securely-netted land as ever before—and
thus the poison-cart must be kept going just the same,
netting or no netting.
The foreign potentate who rules the Lake View
Consois, the mining show that once caused a
giddy boom, announces in London that he is
going to organise a movement to compel the
miners to take less pay for swallowing Kalgoorlie
dust; or else shut down the mines. Govett, the
potentate in question, says that Lake View Con-
sols is only earning 4 per cent, on its capital, and
the co. isn’t going to wear out machinery and
root out gold just for the sake of the Australian
miners. Govett doesn’t mention that in 1898 the
co. made a profit of £286,325, and £614,633 in
1899, and £387,718 in 1900, or £1,288,676 alto-
gether, so that in three years he and the
other foreign sponges mopped up four times
the amount of their capital. He didn’t
offer the miners any bonus then ; he just paid
them the lowest wages he could get them to work
for. If anybody had said in those days that
Westralia shouldn’t allow its gold to be torn out
just to fatten a foreign crowd that didn’t care two
straws about Australia, there would have been a
horrible squeal about driving capital out of the
country. Now, however, that the co. has rooted
out most of the gold and pocketed the pioceeds,
it asks the miners whether they aren’t ashamed
of themselves for taking wages from a poor co.
that can’t pay 100 per cent, dividends once a
quarter any more. That’s the sort of absentee
Australia is asked to speak gently to, and feed
well, lest it should go away and not come back
any more. Govett’s threat about shutting up
the mines ought to be met on the threshold, and
kicked back with another remark pasted to its
t&il—;that the one condition on which Australia
permits the foreigner to hold a mine is that he
works it, and that, if he doesn’t work it, then his
right stops short. Australia has set up Arbitra-
tion Courts, and is prepared to see that even the
foreign employer gets a fair-wage award ; but it is
not going to permit any absentee to stop the
wheels of progress because it won’t accept what-
ever conditions he pleases to lay down.
Cheerful remark, in the annual report of Super-
intendent Webb, of Sydney Fire Brigades
A Bill for better regulating theatres and places of
public concourse generally was drafted, but owing to the
pressure of other business, was not dealt with. .. . One
building used for athletic entertainments is a disgrace to
Sydney, in want of cleanliness and the means of exit. A
license for the building to be used for theatrical enter-
tainments was refused some years ago, and rightly so ;
but on occasions the building is packed with audiences
more numerous than when it was licensed.
There was, for sometime, that scandal also of the
Lyceum Theatre, which, having been refused a
license as a theatre, was turned into a hall where
dangerous cinematograph shows were given before
packed houses; and, though things are being
altered there, the law which permitted such an
anomaly is an obvious ass. Presumably when a
Governor, a Judge, and a thousand or so Sydney
people are grilled in a dangerous building, after
the manner of the Iroquois Theatre disaster in
America, the IN’. S. Wales Parliament will find
time to handle this subject.
“One of the Perspiring ” :
Though a LYNE-man myself, I take exception to Tariff
William’s recent statement that the officials in the
Sydney G.P.O. are the “best paid, and blessed with the
snuggest billets in the world.” Take my own case. I
have been in the employ of the Electric Telegraph De-
partment of this State 17 long and more or less
weary years. I am 33, married, and, during the
last five years, have never been guilty of an empty
cradle. The man who acts as the Recording Angel
of the misdeeds of the men in my Depart-
ment cannot show a black cross against my name.
I work like Sheol seven hours and a half a day, Saturday
included, a,nd no provision is made for meal hours.
Through wolfing my bit of food whilst working at the
same time, I, in common with many of my contempo-
raries, have destroyed my digestive machinery, and the
wraith of chronic dyspepsia looms darkly ahead. I deal
daily with thousands of important telegrams (more or
less). The delay or bungling- of any one of them invari-
ably brings a stinging complaint through the Deputy
P.M.G., or an infuriated letter in the daily
press. Then I catch the very father of a wigging.
And, for it all, I draw the princely Salary
of £2 2s. weekly, from which the sum of 2s. 6d. is
deducted yearly to make good the occasional postal note
which some understrapper in the same position as myself
has been tempted to steal. We have, times without
number, deputationed the Public Service inspector, and
whispered our tale of woe into his ear, but he has only
assumed a sorrowful countenance, agreed that our case
“ \yas indeed a bard one,” promised he would use his in-
fluence, then sunk back with a sigh of relief as we filed
out, and hastened to forget all about us. Years and
years back—the Lord only knows how many—provision
was made for the section I am quoting to attain £126 per
annum by small yearly increments ; and the flame of
hope blazed in our breasts. But it burned out quite a
long time ago. No ; “ the best paid and easiest billet in the
world ” isn’t to be found in the Sydney G.P.O.
♦
It seems impossible in N. S. Wales to frame a
Land Act without incorporating some absurdity.
Ashton’s 1905 Act is like the rest in that respect.
In the original mapping out of the country, those
spots where there was a settlement, or likely to be
a settlement, were enclosed with a line, inside of
which were “ town lands.” Outside another line
was drawn, the area between the two being
marked “suburban lands.” With an unkind dis-
regard for departmental measurements, towns have
not always grown within their measured limits.
The main street of a place (Wyalong, for example)
is often right outside the suburban land area.
Now, Ashton’s Act (section 15) states :
No person shall be competent to apply for a conditional
purchase lease who is the holder of any land, except
(1) Town or suburban land, declared so by proclamation
in the Gazeite.
(2) Land rented from a private holder.
It is a fairly common thing for a hard-working
man, who has been thrifty and bought a small
piece of land to make a home, to be an applicant
under Ashton’s Act. He finds then, because of
the section referred to, his application is thrown
out. To own even an eighth or a sixteenth of an
acre of land outside the imaginary line which
marks suburban lands is an absolute disqualifica-
tion in all cases where land is thrown open for
conditional purchase lease. The original Closer
Settlement Act of ’O4 held a similar provision, but
the amending Act allows a man who holds
up to 40 acres of land anywhere to make a settle-
ment purchase. Land legislators, however,
apparently learnt their work in a sewing-school,
where “crazywork” was fashionable, and they
patched one Act and left the other.
• ♦
From “Port Arthur,” by E. Ashmead-Bartlett :
We have prided ourselves for years on the fact that we
are a phlegmatic race, ready to take every turn of the
wheel of fortune with equal stoicism. In reality we are
an hysterical nation. John Bull still appears in popular
caricature as a solid, red-faced, substantial person, in-
capable of being aroused by even an explosion under his
house. What a farce is such a portrait! He should be
represented thin, neurotic, idle, conceited, and too lazy
to prepare against attack, alternating between excessive
optimism and excessive despair. He calls out the same
battle-cries of 50 years ago in an unconvincing voice, and
relieves his overwrought conscience at periodical inter-
vals by the appointment of a Royal Commission.
There is more fuss made in England over the departure
and return of a single citizen soldier than over the de-
parture and return of all Oyama’s million heroes. The
one nation deals'with war in a businesslike manner,
claims her soldiers as her due, and sends them home
when she has finished with them. The other, by extrava-
gant display, by music-hall effusions, by bounties, buns
and beer, stirs up an entirely false and temporary feeling
of patriotism in the minds of those peculiarly susceptible
to the influence of brass bands. She sends them to the
front, and removes any general who sacrifices one of these
national darlings unnecessarily. Then, when the war is
over, they are received back in an extravagant manner,
utterly out of accordance with their martial feats.
We in England live in a fools’ paradise. We detest the
idea of devoting one short year of our lives to the defence
of the Empire, a subject which supplies a peroration for
every orator, and which is invariably greeted with loud
applause. We forget that if universal military service
were introduced, the idea of compulsion would be at once
eliminated where all are treated alike, and it becomes a
recognised factor of our national life. We forget that our
little army is but a drop in the ocean compared with our
necessities, and costs more than the mighty machine
which adds such potency to a certain emperor’s tele-
grams. We rely on one barrier, and that barrier alone
stands between England and her foes—our fleet. But
what a poor defence is a fleet, however strong, in this age
of advanced science ! At any hour an invention may come
to light which will neutralise decades of ship-building,
and then the issue will be fought out on- land in the
primitive method by flesh and blood.


DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN THE EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without any detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not he disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address —
“ EAROSCOPE ” Co., 90 Pitt St. (0. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ East Lynne ” and “ Camille."
Theatre Royal “ John Gla.vde’s Honor.”
Her Majesty’s “ Lady Madcap.”
Palace “ Rob Roy.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Tub Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “ The Girls of Gottenberg.”
Theatre Royal “ The Midnight Wedding.”
Oper.a House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Atuen/eu.u Hall Living Scotland Bio.
In “Lady Madcap,” Alma Barber implores
the “ man in America ”to send her a song. The
audience at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Saturday
night would have backed up her request even if
it had been for half-a-dozen, so that she might
have shared them round. Poorer musical-comedy
hasn’t been played in Sydney under so big a
heading for many a night. The dearth of song in
it gets pretty frank admission from the manage-
ment, which hangs up proceedings between the
acts to allow Miss Maher to show off a satisfac-
tory contralto voice; while Miss Celia Gliiloni,
who has a merely picturesque part, inter-
polates “Bebe Ribbons”—words by Arthur
Adams; music (a simple, popular little melody)
by an unmentioned lady in Westralia. Myles
Clifton and Mr. Nable drag in also “The
East End and the West,” and it takes some
dragging in. Had other things been left out to
make room for these undoubted embellishments,
the medley would have been improved. The
critics unanimously call for the pruning knife ;
but it is not green wood that wants removing—
some of the dreary comedy “dialogue” is old,
hard stringybark, upon which nothing less
forcible than an adze will make an adequate im-
pression. Still, apparently with the idea that if
it can’t give quality it at least ought to give
quantity, the management notifies that in future
the show will start at 7.45. The free use of the
sharp-edged tool previously mentioned would
probably give more satisfaction in the long run.
* * * *
The piece has its virtues, certainly. No
charming girl has to philander with any tem-
porarily-discolored gentleman ; and it is a blessed
relief to find that modern musical comedy doesn’t
necessarily include a potentate of Asia on matri-
mony bent. The other chief virtue is less
negative; it is Myles Clifton. For some reason
that isn’t clear and doesn’t matter, Myles Clifton,
who is Oroya Brown and a millionaire, becomes
Private Smith, a trooper in a regiment, where he
has to wash his own horse, and the brute bites
at him, old chap, don’t you know. Don’t
require any probability whatever in the
character, but merely regard his mission as
being to amuse, and you pass Private Smith as
an excellent piece of fooling. The dry comedian’s
moralising over a bunch of keys is probably the
best thing he has done in Australia. But there
is not a song incidental to either Myles Clifton’s
character or any other that is likely to be re-
membered. Lady Madcap herself (Miss Daisie
Wallace) has none. Miss Barber has “ Man,
man in America,” which may stay in
the memory six months, and fade out
about the same time as Reginald Kenneth’s
“A Way we Have in the Army.” The chorus—•
vivacious as ever; only surpassed in that re-
spect by Alfred Moulton on the conductor’s
stand—gets one or two opportunities, as in
“We’re Flunkeys High and Haughty,” and
“ Archery Ladies” ; but there are no very striking
stage pictures to fill up the space between the
footlights and Gordon’s two very charming back-
grounds.
He- He- He- Hi
J. C. Williamson got no satisfactory reply
to his application for hints as to how a man could
spend a quarter-of-a-million in Australia under the
conditions that afflicted the hero of “ Brewster’s
Millions.” One man simply said that he would
hand the money over to his solicitor, and trust to
his muddling; and that nearly got J.C.W.’s five
guineas. In the end, however, the money went
to charities. Brewster’s own troubles will end on
Friday of this week ; after that, “ John Glayde’s
Honor” will have a short life—its first in Aus-
tralia —while a crowd of kiddies get their final
brushing-up in “ Blue Bell in Fairyland,” the first
of the Christmas pieces.
Hi Hi * #
Clarence Tisdale has added his tenor
warble to the Tivoli performance, but beyond
that there is no change. Large ones are, however,
looming, for the agile Whiteleys and others are in
their last nights.
*• Hi Hi *
The diving suit is carpet-bagged at Sydney
Criterion after Friday next—also enough diggers’
shirts, top-boots, and other backblocks props of
the kind to stock an old clo’ shop—and way is
made for more old-world costuming. “East
Lynne ” occurs Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday;
after which Bilanderson concludes what has been
for him a remarkably successful season with
“ Camille ’’—Miss Eugenie Duggan sustaining the
name part.
* He- * Hi
Sydney Glaciarium has been transformed
from a skating-rink into a hall with a seating
accommodation for 3000. West’s Pictures open
there with an entirely new series of films, gay and
grave, on Saturday next.
Hi Hi * *
Melba’s concerts in Sydney are already an
assured success. Crowds foregathered to the
opening of plans at Paling’s on Monday last, and
every day since a huge tally of sovereigns has
testified to the attraction of the singer, and to the
ruined state of this unfortunate city. The dates
have been skilfully arranged to include Saturday,
14th, the second day of the test match.
The success of the second Melba concert
was the success of the previous one, repeated with
emphasis. The same—only more so. As the
crowded audience departed slowly for the street,
to find a neighboring district ablaze, and to thank
Heaven that the dangerous Town Hall was outside
the radius of the fire-panic, people were heard
railing against Melbourne’s constitutional weak-
ness in the matter of enthusiasm. A foreign public
would have been wildly appreciative, whereas
this public had not troubled to recall the songstress
a dozen times after her final encore number.
The complainers had wanted more furore for their
guinea. Nevertheless, the city shows an increasing
aptitude to take its musical pleasures gladly.
When Melba sang the “Lucia” Mad Scene, on
Saturday night, there was a louder roar of applause
than she drew from the audience that welcomed
her back to Australia, five years ago. Then, as
now, she displayed all the beauty of her voice and
vocalism in this long piece of florid opera, but now
she seems to have a new feeling for the
character, and to sing with more dramatic power.
Letnmone played the flute obligato, in which
Melba’s imported flautist of yore came to grief
when she sang the “Lucia” scene at the Princess’s
Theatre. There was no such calamity on Satur-
day, and the mingling of voice and flute tones was
wonderful. The modern Italian school of music
got a fine show in La Tosca’s tearful prayer from
Puccini’s opera. Later on Melba sang“Pleurez
mes yeux ” from Massenet’s “ Le Cid,” and gave
“The White Sea Mist”—her best effort in
songlets—as the encore. For a nominal finale
she gave the assembled womankind a lesson in
how to warble the Arditi valse song, “LeSaran
Rose,” after which “ the house rose at her,” so to
speak. Or, rather, it didn’t rise, but remained
seated until she had thrown in another merry
Italian ditty to her own accompaniment. The
concert, apart from Melba, included Andrew
Black. Louis Hattenbach, Lemmone, and Miss
Una Bourne, as before, and the gifted ’cellist was
described on the programme as a “ Herr.” In
this English-speaking country there are no herren,
or monsieurs, or signori. They are all misters—
plain misters—and The Bulletin desires Hatten-
bach to understand that it can make no exception
in his case despite his curly crest. He must get
his Herr cut.
* * * *
General Desire, who tried hard to induce
Melba to give a concert at the Exhibition Build-
ing last time she was around, has talked her into
acquiescence this time. After her return from
Sydney, and when the building aforesaid has been
cleared of all the needlework and babies and
things that lately littered its precincts, Melba
will send her top note fluttering to the dome.
It is to be on Boxing Night.
* Hi Hi Hi
“ The Midnight Wedding” and the new
advertisement curtain, which are alike artistic in
a businesslike way, have reached their fifth week
at the Royal. Alsb they are still going strong.
In the production of a four-act drama the curtain
is an important part of the show, and this
particular curtain, being designed to present
the advertiser as a superior person whose
commercial spirit is elegantly framed in gold on a
pale blue ground, attracts more attention than
would be given to an ugly sheet of uncompromising
statements. Therefore, the present writer deplores
the absence of advts. fitted to the present bill. A
lady in a state of corsets is possibly dressing herself
for her wedding at midnight, but the picture is
not explanatory. And none of the other advts.
has any bearing on the title of the drama.
Hi * He He
This is the last week but one of “ The Girls
of Gottenberg,” at Her Majesty’s. The end of the
season draweth near, yet is there still time for
George Lauri to change his make-up and other-
wise alter himself before he leaves Melbourne.
Even his staunchest supporters have wearied of
his red wig, and his baby stare, and his nose
that is painted to look as though he had a cold
in it. Subtle character acting is not expected
of a popular broad comedian in musical farces ;
but he might at least break the monotony of his
personality as regards the wig and the nose. Just
at present. Lauri is supposed to be an ex-barber
of miraculous audacity and ready wit, but his
smile suggests the typical English village imbecile,
and his head of hair looks impossible to an
emancipated barber.
Hi Hi Hi Hi
This last week, the Opera House bill was
adorned with the portentous name of Herbert La
Martine, described as vocalist, eccentric dancer,
and baton-spinner. In the folly of spinning a
baton until it resembles a wheel in motion,
Herbert has acquired a proficiency that excites
commiseration for himself and the audience. Why
practise baton spinning, and why applaud the re-
sult? Finglas, the bogus coon, is roaring tunefully
as before. Price and Revost finish a howling turn
with unexpected somersaults into the stalls, and
(presumably, on account of the hot weather,
which induces a sort of brain-stagnancy) the two
Colliers present the “limit” in inanity. The
agile Molasso ladies will continue to display
abnormal lengths of spine for a few more nights,
what time the equally agile Molasso gentlemen
exhibit phases of continental polish.
Hi * He- He
It seems that Madame Arral, fired by the
example of Melba and Clara Butt, will start some
farewell reappearances in Melbourne at the Town
Hall (not the Princess’s) on Dec. 14.
* * He ne
“ Human Hearts,” at Adelaide Royal, has
been well supported in the “popular” parts of the
house. Towards the end of its week, it un-
accountably got in a nasty one at its patrons by
advertising prominently that “Even the worst
and meanest of mankind will applaud the good,
the true, and the beautiful on the stage.” But,
then, this management has not much sense of
humor, or it would not issue its striking poster of
an incoherent person asking, “ Shall I forget that
I am in the presence of the Dead, and kill him ? ”
This finely-acted American concoction has now
passed on, and Andrew Mack is on the door-
step (so to speak), preparing to knock out the real
history of Thomas Moore in three rounds.
The Prussian Army acquired last month
in the person of one Cassel, son of a millionaire
Berliner, the first Jew of commissioned rank it
has ever known—and the Continental anti-Semite
organs rage accordingly. French Royalist papers
suggest genially that the boycott system, which
finally broke down, a few months ago, the resolu-
tion even of Dreyfus, is the best treatment for
Cassel.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. WaJjave everything for the show-
man. Osborn arifrJerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
’Arry Rickards came back from foreign ’alls last week
to find that he had been made a grandfather in his
absence.
Granville Barker’s new play, “Waste,” was forbidden,
last month, by the British Censor of Plays, and there is
Sheol to pay among literary people. Meredith, Thomas
Hardy, Shaw and others have arisen in bitter protest,
and signed a petition for presentation to King Ned or the
Government, or both, urging that Redford (the Censor in
question) be dismissed and his office abolished.
The phrase credited to Melba “ I am an artist, not an
exhibition ” is good, and there is just a suggestion that
the Butt end of the Rumford menage might be the ex-
hibition ; but, all the same, Melba too is travelling a little
on “the kid” this trip. She brought sonny with her
here, and not a little is made of sonny. Sonny’s bride is
the other “ cheeild ” upon whom Melba splashes her
splendid affections, and one comes across frequent refer-
ences in the weekly clothes-press of Melbourne to a
certain magnificent cot purchased by Melba, and other
infantile paraphernalia suggestive of more kid—kid with
which Madame is to be associated in a grandmotherly way.
Auckland (M.L.) recently formed an enthusiastic syndi-
cate for the purpose of acquiring and producing musical
comedy, comic opera, and other musical stuff generally,
by Australasian authors and composers exclusively. As
a start, the co. has decided to offer a prize of £5O for the
best work sent in up to August 12, ’OB, and offers authors
a percentage of the gross takings of production, while
allowing them to retain full proprietary rights in their
pieces.
MISS BEATRICE BRAMAH , of Frank
Thornton’s Company.
“ Burr Lud” : Nomadic pros, paint luridly the horrors
of country tours. Like Island missionaries, they never
pause to think that the poor heathen may have dyspepsia
or other ills after their visit. But put a few good healthy
brisk young artists at the prow, df disciplinarian, with a
slight silvery lining in his pocket, at the managerial helm,
and it’s odds on the boat being filled with a paying bush
cargo, instead of 60 per cent, city stowaways or dead-
heads, as at present. What the man on the outer rim
objects to is the old, painted, worn-out, prehistoric
supers spending their declining years in fearsome, har-
rowing, bellowdramas in the bush. There is a big paying
vacuum outback for a bright, spirited young company.
“ Blue Peter : ” Re English mummers’recent access of
domestic virtues. Clara Butt and “ himself ’’are nothing
to Seymour Hicks and Ellaline Terriss. He writes, runs,
and stage-manages the plays, and he and Ellaline divide
up every bit of “ fat ” between them, with a few necessary
supers to fill in time, while they take breath or change
their clothes. If they get any applause at the finish, they
run up the curtain, dive into the wings, and bring on
their infant Betty. They each hang on to half, and bump
their heads together, both trying' to kiss her at once.
It fetches the British public every time. “Isn’t Ellaline
Terriss sweet ?” they say. The Australian blinks and
says, “But she can’t sing, and she can’t dance, and she
can’t act.” “Oh no, but she’s so refined. She and her
husband are such a devoted couple, and they have such a
lovely baby,” and the Londoner considers that there is
no more to be said ; and then they begin reverently dis-
cussing the best places to go for dinner.
“ Theorbo ”: Why not an Australian Grand Opera
Company? Here you have a superb orchestra and chorus
ready to hand. The German Company, however much
its members may disparage each other, agreed that the
choristers have been unexpectedly splendid, and
astonishingly quick. The public wants the music. Mr.
Musgrove has had to fall back on choristers as principals
now and again, invariably with good results. Let us
have Grand Opera at three shillings, two shillings, and
one shilling. Scenery is to hand. An average of five
pounds a week each, with every expense paid—clear five
quid—on the understanding that this must be a risky
experiment, would gather principals galore.
May Beatty, from England “ Touring, and so busy.
Last week we were at Coventry—such a quaint town ;
picturesque old buildings everywhere, and not one bath-
room. The place is full of motor-cars—motor-cars, but
no baths ! We return to London this month (October),
and play there till pantomime time. Igo to Newcastle
to play Dick Whittington,”
“ Rob Roy” is to be staged, December 14, 16and 17, at
Sydney Palace by amateurs of the A.M.P. Society.
Maud Thornton, the pretty Australian who was last
seen here as the drummer boy in “ Tambour Major,” has
signed on with George Edwardes for 12 months. She
spends the first half-year in S’Africa leading in “ The Merry
Widow,” “ Girls of Gottenberg,” and other tried Gaiety
and Apollo shows; returning afterwards to Daly’s
Theatre, London.
Two Melbourne girls were on duty at different concert
halls, in London, one Saturday afternoon in October.
Both of them were press-noticed as artists of rising im-
portance. At the Queen’s Hall, where Suzanne Adams
and Ben Davies were among the stars of the Chappell
ballad concert, Beatrice Miranda warbled. At the
Bechstein Hall a pianoforte recital was given by Rita
Hope, the damsel who went to Vienna and the School of
Leschetizky some two years ago. Rita, it seems, has
justified the farewell she got at Melb. Town Hall on the
eve of her departure, although the local critics dismissed
her as just a pianiste and little more. London critics
accept her as a girl with a future.
Beatrice Miranda nowadays is coupled with elder sister
Lalla in laudatory mention, and the family name sounds
loud in the London land. Beatrice writes a glowing
account of Lalla in the Big Smoke, and talks chattily of
herself : “ They mixed us up a bit in the papers. People
W'ent to the opera expecting to hear me, and were
amazed to hear quite a different voice, for ours are not a
bit alike. Lalla’s is purely a lyric soprano—a lovely
quality—and they say mine is a dramatic soprano. lam
still working hard, and it is a great advantage having my
sister here, because she is able to help and teach me such
a lot. I held quite a little reception outside the theatre
on Saturday night, receiving congratulations on my
sister’s behalf from all the Australians who were there.
There are hosts of them in London—it’s almost like being
in Australia sometimes.”
“ Star ” : I greatly admire the simple, unabashed in-
solence of those people who, whenever Melba comes into
the open, hurl at her impudent insinuations or blatant
declarations that it is her duty to sing for charity at the
first opportunity. Within three weeks I have seen it
asserted nine times in press letters that Melba should
sing for this charity or that. Melba is a fairly generous
distributor, but if she were not, on what grounds of
reason or decency do persons who run bone mills, ham
and beef shops, and rag foundries clamor for artists to
put up big jobs solely for charities ? Nobody ever hears
of the ham and beef man running his shop for a week or
a day exclusively in the interests of the hospitals, and the
person who sells fenders and hoop-iron cutlery, or mil-
linery, or summer soft goods, doesn’t do so for the bene-
volent asylums, even on rare occasions. These persons
simply cannot get away from the idea that the artist is a
rascal who gets liis or her money nefariously, and should be
forced to disgorge at stated intervals, and their distress
when he gets money in large quantities drives them to
the most ridiculous, illogical excesses.
Walter Howard, the perpetrator of “The
Midnight Wedding” and other dramas of the
same type, is an old actor with a strong,
serviceable memory for plots and “situations.”
Some of his plays, recently produced for the
first time, were constructed many years ago,
and some of the scenes he then patched to-
gether are old enough to be new to the present
generation. The style of construction differs
from that of the more modern and crowded
melodrama, and the cast of characters is not so
long. Compared with the unwieldy Drury
Lane dramas these Family Herald stage stories
by Howard give better opportunities to the
performers, and bigger profits to the manage-
ment. The scene painter is put in the back-
ground. The Blandoltian army of supers is
not required. Effects are dramatic rather than
spectacular, and the plot has no comedy side to
it, bits of fooling being simply sandwiched be-
tween layers of narrative. A touch of novelty
has been given to Walter Howard’s stuff by
the hand of Time, for in the long ago he
plagiarised his melodramas from plays, whereas
the later melodramatists have plagiarised from
one another, striving for originality only in
their ridiculous sensation scenes by introducing
a steam-roller in place of a steam-hammer, or
a “ living ladder ” instead of a “ living bridge.”
In the ’Bo’s, or earlier, Howard was acting in
Australia, it is said, but seemingly he neglect ed
to steal any of the local atmosphere for his
plays.
Paul Rubens, main fabricator of “ Lady Mad-
cap,” which opened on Saturday night last at
Her Majesty’s, is a fortunate young man. With
no deep musical knowledge, a tenuous wit,
and a lack of originality that is astonishing, he
has made for himself a definite place in the
London theatrical world. George Edwardes,
of Gaiety fame, retains him at a big annual
figure to write musical comedy, librettos, and
lyrics. Rubens is, and has for long been,
the vogue among the queer people who make London
leg-shows pay—and therein lies his value. He’s an
Oxford product, cetat 30, and a Jew.
“ Pea-green Discussing the Gawler acci-
dent, a man who ought to know told me that the
S. Australian .Railway Department is grossly
under-manned, and that the September overtime
worked by guards going out from North Terrace
was 5000 hours, while porters’ overtime for
the same period was 7000 hours. One man in the
yard got in 95| hours in one week (within 15min.
of two weeks jambed into one). The man who
made the mistake at Crawler was admittedly over-
worked. On the platforms at several stations
most of the porters’ work is done by mere youths,
at about 4s. per day. A Departmental Board of
Inquiry consists of five men, four of whoih are
officials, the fifth one representing the men. If
the decisions are arrived at by a four to one
majority, it would be no more than one would
expect.
A thoroughly Australian Christinas gift
for a friend abroad—a subscription to The Lone
Hand for 12 months. It will keep your friend
current with Australian life.
“Stony”: Over in Tassy they manufac-
ture home-made wine in large quantities. Every
housewife-with a currant-bush or a row of goose-
berries makes and bottles the pungent fermeuta.
tion every year, and if she hasn’t a gooseberry
bush, she goes out into the highways and byways,
and compels the wanderer to come in. In the
years that have fled, I rioted among the farming
fastnesses “ down Channel,” and once I started off
with the local C.E. parson for a round of profes-
sional calls. At each house, instead of brewing a pot
of tea, the hospitable housewife went into the secret
parts, and led forth the home-made wine. The
parson, after the third call, sat down by the way-
side, and burst into a loud roar of laughter. “ Old
Mrs. Smith ! ” he said, suffocatingly, and
then roared some more, and became rapt in
thought. In a few minutes, being rested, he
broke into another roar of laughter, and sug-
gested that we had perhaps better be getting
along. I agreed ; and in 20 minutes we came upon
a high road, with a farmhouse standing near by.
This was our fourth calling-place, and the parson
now distinguished himself by upsetting his glass
of wine over the cat, and calling for some more.
This meant that we had sampled four different
kinds of sweet wines within three hours—in big-
bodied wine-glasses, usually refilled. At this
stage, there being three more houses on the list,
we decided to go home. Two miles out of the
township we decided, instead, to rest. It was
moonlight when we woke up.
TYEEE AUTOMATIC RABBIT DESTROYER.
Tests have now been made at Binda, Crookwell, Coota-
mundra, Randwiek, and other places. In every case the
rabbits were killed automatically in their burrows with-
out labor. Price, from £4 each.
TYREE AUTOMATIC SPRAYERS.
Thousands of these machines are now in use for killing
Grasshoppers, Prickly-pear, Lantana, Briars, Blackberries,
Poison-plant. For spraying sheep for Blowfly. For
Whitewashing, Painting, Disinfecting, Fire-extinguishing,
and numerous other purposes. Price, from £4 each. For
further particulars, write Tyree Ltd., 314 George-street,
Sydney.*
TRIOLET.
[For The Bulletin.]
The gilded youth adores
The seasoned ingenue ;
Her virtue never bores.
The gilded youth adores
Her innocence, because
He knows it isn’t true.
The gilded youth adores
The seasoned ingenue !
Vic.
TRIX.
AN EDUCATION IN ABSTINENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thin man with the raven locks held Tommy Bannon’s
floor,
His right hand clutched a can of beer, his tank held
plenty more ;
He raved of Sims and Shalcspeare (Bill), and comedy
and gore.
“ For twenty ye-e-ars and five,” said he, “I st-rMe teragic
boards,
I played in every rfile, my boy, the English stage affords ;
I’ve been approved by kings, and egged by low, bucolic
hordes.
“In all those ye-e-ars I learned a lot. I’ve even lived on
bran.
The profession schools the stomach as no other system
can,
And now I stand Australia’s first and foremost fasting
man 1 ”
Vic.
SILAS SNELL.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. ■
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1907,
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 12.
It contains Verses, Sketches and
Stories, grave and gay, by the fore-
most writers of the Commonwealth.
The illustrations will represent the
best Black and White work in Aus-
tralia, and will picture the national
humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is
the standard epitome of the life of
young Australia.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d.
The Jone Rand
DECEMBER NUMBER NOW
ON SALE.
It’s a Special Issue.
And it’s having a Special Sale.
Splendid Stories !
Glowing Pictures ! !
Brilliant Articles ! ! !
THE BEAUTY QUEST.
The first instalment of portraits of
the Australian fair entered for the
Beauty Quest are published.
Buy it for your own pleasure.
Then send it away to a friend abroad,
so that he may see what Australia can
produce.
WORTH A CROWN.
SOLD FOR A SHILLING,
Cheap Labor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE had experience of many kinds of
cheap labor, from Javanese to South Sea
Islanders; but the cheapest in the whole
world is the evade (escaped convict) of New
Caledonia. Since transportation began there are
1700 prisoners missing. Very few have man-
aged to reach Australia ; most have perished try-
ing. A good number have gone under in the New
Caledonia bush, and there are still a few hundred
working on various mines. These men have a
pretty hard time. They work like demons, and
to ask for anything like fair wages or to shirk
work means being reported to the gendarmes.
Then the manager of the mine receives 25 francs
“ blood money.” For the same reason the evades
never get drunk, and avoid, as far as possible, all
quarrels.
Some six years ago an owner of many mining
properties in the Island had a corner in convicts.
That is to say —the Government undertook to
supply him with that class of labor, up to 2000, at
one franc per day. The gentleman was about to float
a group of mines in London, and one of the
inducements held out in the prospectus was
“cheap labor.”
The co. was floated, and the Government sent
up a batch of 560 convicts, besides erecting
barracks and supplying a squad of soldiers to keep
order. The favorite punishment was to chain the
insubordinates on a bench, stripped, stark naked,
and leave them there for a few days and nights.
With m jsquitoes in billions and attending strictly
to business, a course of this treatment was
always effectual.
Runaways were frequent, but it generally ended
in two Kanakas appearing in camp, after a few
days, carrying something between them trussed up
to a pole, which something, on being dumped
down, turned out to be one of the evades. The
Kanakas received their reward, and retired to the
nearest wine-shop. The prisoner was soon on
his way to Noumea, to receive a taste of the
“ cachot noir,” otherwise “ black hole,” and pro-
bably have 15 years added to his term.
This class of “cheap labor” took very little
interest in the success of the mine. They used
to throw their picks,.drills, etc., down the well-
hole at the bottom of the shaft whenever oppor-
tunity offered. They also had a playful way of
heaving the pigs of ore overboard from the barges
whilst on the way to the steamers. Of course,
under the circumstances, they could hardly be
expected to put themselves to the trouble of study-
ing economy.
Amongst 500 men it would be strange not to
find one good worker. There was one from the
South of France, named Jacques. Amid the weedy
lothe stood out a regular Hercules. At the time,
of which I write he was, with another convict,
working in the face at No. 6 level. It was quite
a pleasure to see how the driving progressed there.
One' morning, at roll-call, Jacques was missing.
The Kanaka sleuth hounds scoured the country,
but day after day passed without “something”
being dragged into camp. The “ blood money”
was doubled ; still no result. All the time, to my
great surprise, work in No. 6 level went on at
the same rate as before Jacques was missing. I
complimented the men, and said I was glad to
see they had learnt something from their late
comrade. I also increased their rations.
The reef at this time was getting poorer in the
lower levels, and, as the co. was under contract
to deliver ore of a certain percentage, the manager
asked me to inspect the worked-out upper stopes,
and see if any bunches of richer ore had been
overlooked. I descended to No. 3 level, and,
with lamp in hand, proceeded to make my inspec-
tion. I had not gone more than 200 ft. along the
drive when I heard a rustle ahead. “Bats,” I
said, and walked on. Again I heard the noise ;
this time it sounded like someone shuffling along
without boots. I drew my revolver—it was the
custom never to be without it, and life is
very cheap in New Caledonia. On I went,
knowing) whatever it was, it could not
get beyond the face of the drive. When I reached
the end I found a man grovelling on the ground,
with his faced buried in his hands, sobbing bit-
terly. I stooped down, and recognised Jacques.
When he Saw who it was, and not a gendarme, as
he expected, he besought me not to betray him.
He was hiding until his beard and hair grew, and
then he meant to try to get work at the southern
end of the Island, and perhaps in two years save
sufficient money to make a dash for liberty.
“Oh, Monsieur, think of w'hat I have suffered.
Twelve years have I slaved, yet there is no chance
of ever again seeing France and my dear ones if I
stop here, however hard I work.” I told him I
was not an informer, and that he was safe as far
as I was concerned.
‘ ‘ But how have you managed to live ? ” I
asked.
“Every night shift, Monsieur, I go down to
No. 6 level and work for the men there, they in
return giving me part of their rations.”
I left the poor devil still crouching on the
ground and muttering blessings on the ‘ 1 bon
Anglais.”
Some two years passed and I was engaged to
report on a chrome mine down South. To my
surprise, I saw Jacques in one of the open cuts. I
stood for some time admiring the way he was
wielding the drill hammer. He was actually
singing.
Catching sight of me, he stopped working and
smiled. I went towards him, and, leaving his
mate, he came to me.
I remarked on his changed appearance, and said
I was pleased to see he enjoyed his work so much
as to sing over it. “ You would sing,” he said,
“if after years of this life you saw a chance
of escape. No one knows lam an evade, and I
have earned 1000 francs since I came here. A
week ago I told the manager I wanted a month’s
holiday, and, so as not to arouse his suspicion, I
said if he would give me half of the money due
me, the balance could stand over till my return.
But, no, the good manager would not hear of it.
‘Come to the bureau on Saturday,’ he said, ‘ and
I will pay you your 1000francs.’ And to-morrow
is Saturday, Monsieur. Listen, two of my
friends, evades, like myself, have a boat hidden in
the mangroves a few miles from here, with water
and provisions aboard. They are good sailors, and
we shall certainly reach Australia ; there we can
take passage to France. You see I have good
cause to sing.”
Wishing him all sorts of luck, I left. As I
walked away, the ring of Jacques’ hammer fol-
lowed me, the heavy blows sounding as if he were
at last beating his way out to freedom.
That night I camped with the manager. At
six next morning, after coffee, I strolled over to
the bureau. Jacques was there, waiting for his
1000 francs. Just then I heard the sound of horses
galloping along the road. They stopped. Two
gendarmes entered. The manager pointed to
Jacques, and he was in irons in the twinkling of
an eye.
The “good manager” had known all along
that Jacques was an evade ; but why inform on
him, so long as he did the work of any other
three men, and did not ask for his wages ? As it
was, he had had the use of one of the best miners
I ever saw, for nothing, besides collecting the
25 francs blood money for informing.
If that’s not “cheap labor,” I don’t know
what is.
Jacques, if not dead, is now in the chain gang.
If he ever has the luck to escape, I would not
yearn after being in the ‘ ‘ good manager’s ” shoes.
This is not an isolated case. A number of the
mines in New Caledonia get “cheap labor” on
the same terms and conditions.
WANDERER.
A statement laid on the table of N.S.W.
Leg. Assembly shows that 1124 Crown tenants in
the Rocks resumption area are in arrears with
their rents, owing altogether about £3500. This
return might have been headed “ Out on the
Rocks when the Tide is Low.” But it wasn’t.
THOS. E. SPENCER, Employers' Representative
on N. S. Wales Arbitration Court , and a
versifier of some skill. The Bulletin hopes
his judicial duties won't put his Pegasus out
of harness.
Photo, by Freeman & Co., Sydney.
A brutally inconsiderate message killed
a fine chance in the Freetrade newspaper offices
one day last week. A society in Berlin—in Pro-
tectionist Germany—reported that 14,000 children
were underfed, and lived entirely on bread and
coffee. Sydney Evening News, for a start,
rushed the news in under some fine big black
headlines. And then the brutally inconsiderate
later message arrived to say that thousands of
looms in Freetrade Lancashire were idle, and 8000
operatives were out of work, and 30,000 were in
distress, in the one town of Sunderland. After
that the “ curse of .Protection ” headlines were
silently dropped.
The S. Aus. National Ass is trying hard
to rope in the Farmers and Producers’ Union,
and to a great extent it has succeeded. It
assured the union the other day that the ‘ ‘ Socialist
(meaning the Labor) party fights the farmers
principally,” wherefore “the farmers’ only course
was to fight Socialistic legislation.” Well, which
joint in the monster’s tail does the National Ass
recommend the farmers to attack first the
Socialistic railways, or the Socialistic agricultural
colleges, or the Socialistic produce export depdts,
or the Socialistic jetties for shipping wheat ? A
few months ago the Labor Premier sent a man to
England to find markets for the farmers’ produce,
to advise them when to send it and how to pack it—
another horrible Socialistic scheme for ruining the
farmers. Perhaps the National Ass. will recom-
mend the Farmers’ Union to cut that piece of
Socialism off, to start with !
Messrs. Barnet Glass and Co. remind auto-
mobilists of the significant fact that Dutton and Aunger
are using Michelin tyres for the Adelaide to Port Darwin
trip, non-skids on the back wheels, and square-treads on
the front. Two spare square-treads are also included in
the repair outfit. Aunger is not only a first-class
motorist, but one of the best motor mechanicians in Aus-
tralia, and knows what he is doing. Hence his choice of
tyres.*
Interesting to know whether “ Abori-
ginally ” writers are going to make the bite of
the tarantula venomous or not. Anyway, it is
safest to always have a bottle of D.O.L. whisky
on hand. Whether the bite he that of the tiger
snake, the energetic “triantelope,” or the horny-
tongued, hard-shelled Sabbatarian’s, with his box
of spikes for impaling all cheerfulness, & la B.
picture, 28/11/’07 —D.O.L. is the best brand for
inducing a clear head and a bright outlook, in spite
of all the onslaughts of the venomous virus of
gloom.*
FRIENDS.
[FOR THE BULLEITIN.]
Life is a tune to which the keys are two —
The major pleasure and the minor sorrow' —
And, though to-day I harmonise w'ith you,
We may, perhaps, make discord on the morrow.
But should the Great Player tire of majors grand,
And o’er the strings in solemn sadness bend,
And we two still vibrate beneath His hand,
’Tis then I know you are indeed my friend.
VIC.
KERANI.
The Man with the Saveloy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONE day of festival there came upon the
lawn of the Flemington Racecourse a
man eating a saveloy, which he held in
his hand, not triumphantly, as if equipped with a
shameless authority, but of necessity.
Deliberately he took his way amongst the
sickly and infirm, attired as if for judgment.
Suppressed laughter, rude and idle comment
followed him. A policeman ordered him to move
on, which he did without objection, retiring to a
seat in a more secluded portion of the lawn.
He finished the consumption of the cheap
delicacy, and meditated :
“ I have created some consternation, and more
laughter, because it would appear to be ridiculous
to partake of saveloys in this artificial environ-
ment.
“I do not agree with their standpoint. I am
hostile.
“On the one side, there is I ; on the other,
there are pre-eminently the law, to me vitiated by
its stupidity and ineffectiveness, and the concep-
tion of these, shall I say cows, composed of
feminists, misogynists, romanticists, idealists,
theists and Pagans, poets, authors, artists, musi-
cians of the inane, apes of mime and gesture called
‘ actors ’; the balance —shopkeepers, shop sales-
men, bankers, stockbrokers, bookmakers, women
and such.
“ Arrayed against me I have what, for my
purposes, I describe as the aesthetic, the ordinary
intellectual and the mediocre.
“ Well then
“ In the first place, I endeavor to apply my
reason, not necessarily to the destruction, but
rather to the revaluation of inventions that are
superficially undemonstrable. They, my oppo-
nents, with an observation that is not individual,
but is imposed by vicious hereditary influences,
appear to have been fed with errors —-that is, if
we are both to be judged by our concepts of this
solitary action—the action, or, more truly, the
function, of eating.
‘ ‘ Let me argue this question of hostile stand-
points with as much logic as I can command, and
try to deduce something therefrom.
“We have two standpoints which, in their
* moral ’ language, are called ‘ creeds,’ obviously
antithetical, the one natural, courageous and true ;
the other anti-natural, cowardly and illusory.
“On the one side, there is valuation, or
measuring, or weighing by intense myopic prece-
dents ; on the other is the perspicuity to decide
instinct —and only instinct.
“To be sure, my reason, which I have
strengthened by study and logical exercises in
order that it may adjudge the value of all formulae,
has told me that the instinctive is natural and
good in ‘ morals ’ ; that all else is anti-natural,
pernicious and false and therefore evil, much as I
should desire to lose the moral qualifications of
merely ‘ good ’ and merely ‘ evil. ’
“ However, I purchase and eat a saveloy—two
perfectly natural actions, in no wise extraordinary,
not a whit fantastic, nor discreditable, nor even
dishonorable ; but, given the necessary environ-
ment, to them eccentric.
“ I shall pass by the action of purchasing, and
consider the function of eating, as necessary, as
natural as the function of sleeping or drinking.
“Asa premise, I wished to eat, my wish being
closely co-related to the feeling of hunger.
“ Therefore I ate, but I did not wish to pose.
In truth, I tell myself that I did not pose.
“ But these, my opponents, antagonistic by im-
pulse (which is the impulse of fear), have valued
my action by the well-learnt preconceptions of
others, rather than by the knowledge acquired by
study, since they deride the effect, while totally
ignoring the cause, attaining, shall I say, a false
value of my action solely by contrast with its
environment.
“ Consequently, they assume that environment
palliates or aggravates action, and, inferentially,
assert that environment differentiates value—that
is, they arrive at false valuation by delimitation of
values.
“ They, in truth, confuse naturalness with pose
because they believe —indeed, are terrorised into
believing—that pose is naturalness—an astounding
paradox of ‘ moral ’ values.
“ Therefore, they are terrorised into an abhor-
rence of instinct.
“ Therefore, they abhor truth.
“And, since they are enemies to truth, I per-
ceive their petty difference between eating a
saveloy upon a racecourse and eating it in the
seclusion of a room; between plundering a
cathedral and plundering a silk mercer ; between
murdering a bishop and murdering a murderer ;
between the crimes of the rich and the crimes of
the poor —I perceive confusion and error and
decadence.
‘ l l further perceive that they doubt the solidity
of such ‘moral’ structures as they have estab-
lished, since they have buttressed them with the
terrifying negative law, ‘ Thou shalt not. ’
“ I perceive that the terror of punishment is
the support of error.
’“I perceive that they live by destruction,
because they fear it ; by the promise of material
punishment, embodied in Hell fire and the exe-
cutioner.
“ Thus the consequent result is a hegemony
of terrorism or class and evangelical parasitism,
that fears for itself, that is there to destroy, that it
may live.
“ How sublime even in its baseness ! How
miserable and unworthy ! And how anarchical ! ”
Having finished his meditation, the man, who
had eaten the saveloy, arose from his seat and,
laughing at humanity, went out at the gate.
J EAN SIBI.
At Wallaroo.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
YEAR in, year out, it changes not,
Nor any tree about it grows ;
A great wide landscape, bare and hot,
Wherein no tropic splendor blows ;
A long-dry “river” courses through
The stony tract of Wallaroo.
The station-house is on a rise,
Flanked by a crazy shearing-shed,
And huts, with windows set like eyes
Within a squat and low-browed head,
Gape, from the hillock, at the plains
With widely-staring window-panes.
A relic of a busier past
Within a land untenanted,
Where, dominating regions vast,
Is but one huge, neglected stead
Not fenced, nor ploughed, nor racked for gold,
But old, as all the land is old.
The dwindled flocks are fagged and lean,
From dragging droughty seasons through ;
For Fate, that sits behind the scene,
Has set her mark on Wallaroo,
And, when its old-time owner passed,
A spell of bitter days she cast.
The thirsty earth is stricken bare;
There are no wells along the plains,
Nor any waters anywhere ;
It waits, and wilts, and waits for rains—
As, when its owner came to die,
It wept its kindly waters dry.
Yet when that bitter spell is through,
And Fate has had her sorry will,
Shall sweet rains come to Wallaroo,
And spread green garments round the hill ?
A miracle shall come to pass—
A world knee-deep in waving grass !
Then shall the flocks wax fat and grow,
The gardens bloom, the waggons ply
With heavy bales, and flowers shall blow
Along the brinks where waters lie,
Reflecting limpid skies of blue
That dome green plains at Wallaroo !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


US
Comfort on Horseback at 9/0
We have just finished making up a splendid line
of Canton Moleskin Trousers in Fawn and White.
These we have in all sizes, made in our own
workrooms by Australians for Australians. They
are designed and cut with every knowledge and care
to fill the purpose for which they are intended,
namely, to provide a good, strong, comfortable pair
of Riding Trousers for country wear. The seat is
roomy, the fork clean, and straps are provided for
those who desire them to pass under the boot and
keep the trousers in position.
We send them carriage paid throughout the Com-
monwealth, with the understanding that, should
they prove unsuitable when received, they may be
returned and your money will be refunded.
'Write for our Men's Catalogue.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
h
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
catalogue with 48 samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, iO/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full satisfaction guaranteed.
r. CENNERT, 20 Rua Corpo da Garda, Porto, Portuga
SOCIETY
Another Broken Hill advt. :
NOTICE.— I wish to APOLOGISE to my WIFE for
what was said, causing her to leave her home.
In Sydney they might go to Justice Simpson and
tell him all about it, and there would be suits for
restitution of conjugal rights, and warrants order-
ing Melinda to come back and fry the sausage and
cut the crib. But in Broken Hill they just “go
down to the paper,” and spend half-a-crown, and
peace spreads its wings again. After all, it’s
cheaper.
THE RIVER BREMER, AT IPSWICH, CHOKED WITH WATER HYACINTH.
They’ve formed a Peace Society in. Sydney.
It’s going to stop war, and when the Asiatic
comes to these shores with a gun, it will meet him
with an ethical principle from Emerson, or a
paradoxical absurdity from some vegetarian
poseur like Bernard Shaw. And the Asiatic will
go right away to his own backyard and be a good
little boy—perhaps.
The Wallace divorce case started last
Thursday in Melbourne to a fairly crowded
house; even the seldom-used gallery was
brightened by a dozen or two of the sex that
always wants to know'. But the later references
to Parisian picture postcards, and such like, brought
Block loungers and Society flutterers hot foot to the
Court, and on Friday morning, an hour before
C.-J. Madden took his seat, “ Standing room
only” was the order. Through the day an early -
door theatre crush fought and struggled in the
corridor to get near the gate of Eden.
Heavily-veiled women grabbed the gowns
of barristers in a vain hope of getting themselves
forcibly dragged inside. Dresses, veils, and even
gent, ones’ gowns and wigs were wrecked in the
strife. The respondent is a pleasant-faced lady,
in black costume, with hat and feathers to match ;
with a suspicion of warmth under the un-
veiled brown cheeks, and with clear eyes that
calmly faced the gaping sightseers. Wal-
lace, old mining-man J.A.’s son, tall, clean-
shaven, good-looking, with a bald spot just
springing up on his head, gave his evidence
quietly, and seemingly with reluctance. Co-re.
Strong was the least self-possessed of the
three. His moustache had lost its jaunty twirl,
his bright eyes looked tired. Probably he was
thinking of Costs. No matter how the case goes
there’s always Costs for everybody. With seven
expensive barristers and three firms of solicitors
to draw their fees, Costs will spend a riotous
Christmas.
How much a woman will expect a Court to
believe was shown in Sydney the other
day, when a wife asked for her marriage to be
nullified on the ground that she was forced into the
ceremony. According to her evidence, she used
to pretty frequently meet the man who was to
become her husband ; but it was always against her
will. Once the man took her to the edge of the
sea, tied a stone around her neck, and threatened
to throw her in. She continued to allow
herself to be forced to meet him. On the night of
her marriage, acting under compulsion, she dressed
herself in an evening gown, and was then dragged
by her bridegroom on to the Manly wharf, and on
to a crowded steamer. From the steamer she was
dragged to a matrimonial agency and forcibly
married. Justice Simpson cast a cold, unfeeling
eye over this story, remarked gently that it over-
shot the bounds of judicial credulity, and passed
the young woman out.
* * * *
News comes of a Yankee wedding at which
two ex-husbands of the bride were present. One
“ gave her away.” (The other was a gentleman,
and didn’t.) The growth in popularity of divorce
is beginning to raise some delicate questions of
etiquette, not only in America, but in Australia.
Is it comme il faut (one must borrow these
etiquette phrases from the French) for an ex-
husband to take a friendly interest in the new
marriage of the lady who once was his wife? In
giving a wedding present, should he consider him-
self a relative, with the right to send a cheque, or
a mere acquaintance, whose polite good wishes
must take the form of a butter-cooler or an entree
dish? Some Australian lady writer might step
into this breach and explain. We know', now,
that a man must never wear brown boots with
evening dress, but on some of these more deli-
cate points of social observance guidance is still
lacking.
That smart Sydney lawyer, Walter Parish,
who looks after the brewery interests, has already
picked a couple of seeming flaws in Wade’s
Liquor Act. That one flaw is real is proved by
the frenzied rush of the Government to cover it
over with a Gazette proclamation. The other, if
upheld, w'ill need a new Act.
Weird regret (S. M. Herald, 21/11/’O7),
by one who has let his mind, grammar, Scripture
knowledge, etc., get into an involved state
A WOMAN and two boys joined the Adelaide train
at Soltia, South Australia, on Sept. 18, are re-
quested to return to, their Home, where they will be
received as the prodical son. If this is not replied to
within a few days other steps will be taken.
The public that goes holidaying behind the
N. S. Wales’ Railway Department’s steam motors
doesn’t know what excitement there is a few feet
ahead of it. At the inquest on the victims of an
explosion, the other day, Barraclough, lecturer on
Engineering at the University, said that holes in
the boiler-plates had been punched instead of
drilled, that the design was faulty anyhow,
and that many of the stays were seriously cor-
roded—and, he added, apparently they hadn’t
been removed since the motor was built, and that
was 22 years ago. Another consulting engineer
found “an extensive fracture, extending along the
boiler-plate for 3ft. 3in.” It was an old break,
and must have been right through the plate before
the explosion happened. Coroners’ juries are
mostly very tame; but, after hearing that
evidence, this one reckoned it couldn’t help tell-
ing the Department to inspect its boilers oftener
and more thoroughly.
MRS. WALLACE, the respondent in Melbourne's
divorce case.
Blandolb melodrama is a fool to the
Portland Dukedom case; nay, even, “The Mid-
night Wedding ” seems a mild entertainment by
comparison. The very foundation-stone of the
case is said to have been buried (with other stones)
in a coffin which ostensibly contained the corpse
of a Druce, who was not dead, but duking. Also,
the same Druce is otherwise alleged to have lived
freely and openly as Druce for years after the
burial of the coffin. The law, being made for
lawyers, has thus far refused to unearth the
mystery as to whether he was an honest human
corpse, or a fraudulent hundredweight of stones
at the time of the interment. Anyway, he was
the prologue to the drama. The sequel is
a snowball of allegation, gathering astonish-
ment as it rolls along. A while ago a
governess from Maoriland, voyaging to England
with a Druce story and a diary in her possession,
complained that the diary had been stolen from
her luggage, after which she went into the witness
box with another diary, or extracts from it, and
stated that some of the secret of the Druce-
Portland case was buried with Charles Dickens.
The scene of the next act is laid in Paris,
where the enigma appears to be stained with
blood and strewn with missing papers. A certain
Madame Valette—thenamemighthave been stolen
from a melodrama—tells another long-lost nar-
rative of the Druce who may have been the Duke
of Portland in disguise. Her father, she says,
was the illegitimate son of the doubtful Druce,
and that unaccountable old man despatched him
(the illegit.) on a mission to Australia
to discover his half-brother, the legitimate
son of old Druce aforesaid. Druce, the father
of Madame Valette, came back from Australia
after a year’s absence, and was stabbed to death
by footpads. The desperadoes incidentally robbed
him of his “birth certificate and other docu-
ments.” Old man Druce, being terribly distressed
to learn that his illegitimate offspring had been
found dead minus a birth certificate (and other
documents), did his best to repair the loss by
giving the daughter of deceased a sealed envelope
—not for publication, but as a guarantee of eccen-
tricity, perhaps. Then he went away, and his
illegitimate granddaughter (now Madame Valette)
heard he was dead and buried. (This is where the
slow music comes in.) In 1874, or thereabouts,
irrepressible granddad turned up alive and well
in Madame’s cigar shop, and when she exclaimed,
in French, “Well, I never! They told me you
were dead,” he replied, “ Oui, le Druce est
mort, vive le Portland!” or words to
that effect. Owing to this extraordinary
visitation, Madame Valette continued to restrain
her natural curiosity re the sealed envelope. The
silence of its contents remained unbroken for the
next 33 years. She went on guarding her sacred
trust as faithfully as a dog—a very long-lived sort
of dog. Her father had always carried his birth-
certificate in his pocket, and she likewise clung to
the sealed envelope with inherited tenacity. But
now she proposes to hand it over to claimant
Druce, the legitimate half-brother, whom her
father quested in Australia so many years ago,
when she was young and charming. Madame is a
sort of Little Buttercup coming to the rescue with
a secret in her hand. The drama ought to end
here, by rights. King Edward should walk on
and greet Druce from Australia as the real Duke
of Portland, whilst the hitherto-Duke jumped
jauntily into Druce’s cast-off clothes, like Captain
Corcoran, in “Pinafore.” But the case threatens
to continue as before.
* * * *
What is S. M. Herald coming to ? Are
law ’n’ order, King and Constitution, or even
Calico Jimmies safe from Mr. James’s lately
developed irreverence ? In a leading article on
the new Director of Agriculture the one-time
official-loving journal bursts out: —
This country in the past has been far too over-ridden
by Civil servants and the foolish traditions of their class.
We seem from the first to have been engaged in a ridi-
culous experiment to acclimatise a sort of mandarin class,
from the Judge on his bench to the humblest tramguard
or the postal official who delivers letters at his window.
“The Judge on the Bench!” The State
Governor!—the Governor-General! —where will
the new iconoclasm end ?
Chamberlain’s Tablets are indispensable to
all medicine chests. They aid digestion, promoto
the appetite, stimulate the liver, keep the bowels
open, and restore all the internal organs to a
natural, healthy condition.*
The Federal Government has a standing
offer of £5O as a reward for information leading to
the conviction of persons attempting to smuggle
opium into Australia. Recently the authorities
at a Queensland port received intimation of the
arrival of a consignment, and seized about 20 tins.
The reward was paid. On opening the tins, they
were found to contain treacle ! The heathen
Chinee is peculiar.
* * * *
“ Hiphen ” : Truly the soulless trader will
put a thing of beauty to any base use. In a
surgical instrument maker’s shop window I beheld
last week a replica of the Milo Venus. The lady
looked as if she had come out of a railway smash
or a Women’s League meeting. On one leg she
wore a rubber stocking for the frustration of vari-
cose veins; t’other was decorated with a knee-
pad, two rheumatic-bands, an ankle-strap, four
corn plasters and a bunion banisher. Rouiid her
divine waist was an electric belt, and attached
thereto a treatise on nervous debility and the only
sure method of eradicating spots before the eyes.
Her peerless bosom was hid beneath a chest pro-
tector. The perfect column of her throat sup-
ported a teething band. Over one eye dangled a
green shade, while the perfection of her Grecian
nose was hid behind a trouser-stretcher-looking
arrangement for the reformation of straying pro-
bosces. There was nothing on her arms, as this
particular Venus has none.
* * * *
In the matter of deaths under chloroform,
Melbourne keeps up its tally with deadly con-
sistency. In the latest case a patient died while
having some teeth extracted, and medical opinion
at the inquest revives a question, that shouldn’t
be allowed to drop into the background,
whether sufficient attention is given to the proper
training of medical students in the administration
of the drug. Coroner Cole, himself a doctor, is
emphatic on the subject:—
DR. “BOB” STRONG (co-
respondent in the Wallace
divorce case.
We should
be able to
give chloro-
form with-
out any fatal
result what-
ever. The
teaching in
connection
with the ad-
ministration
of the drug
is, to some
extent, im-
perfect. That
chloro form
can be given
with perfect
safety is mv
opinion, and
also that of
medical men
who admin-
ister it daily.
I think that
the public
is entitled
to demand
some thing
better in the
teaching of
chloro form
adminis t r a-
tion, unless
we fall back
upon a cer-
tain few to
administer
it. I can’t
believe that
we have to
pay a toll
of death for
such a bene-
ficent drug
as chloro-
form.
A medical
witness at
the Mel-
bourne in-
quest look-
ed severely
askance at
tlie use of
chloroform in dentistry operations, on the ground
“that the patient’s doubled-up position in the
chair made death from heart failure much more
probable than the recumbent posture on the sur-
gical table.” But surely no dentist gives chloro-
form to a sitting-down patient ?
Nauseous and mostly unprintable are the
details of the evidence published in the Paris
papers of the military scandal at Berlin, arising
out of the great libel trial. The plaintiff, Yon
Moltke, was till quite lately Commandant of
the Berlin Garrison, A.D.C. to the Kaiser, and
one who wielded immense influence at Court.
Prince Zu Eulenburg, Moltke’s friend, was once
Ambassador to Austria, and is a man of immense
ability. Moltke, actat 60, is a battle-scarred
veteran of the Eranco-Prussian war; Eulenburg
is 57. The members of the clique to which these
men belonged—-the “ Liebenberg.” or “Round
Tablets ’’—referred always to the Kaiser as
“oherie,” “das liebchen” ( Anglice , “darling”);
and claimed that they could influence him abso-
lutely. Von Moltke was “ der suesse ”(“ sweet-
est”). Von Moltke rouged freely and reddened
his lips ; so did Eulenburg. The two went to the
theatre together and “sat in fauteuils eating
chocolates with their cheeks painted.” Von
Moltke addressed Eulenburg in letters as “ My
Darling,” “My best-loved one.” And so on. The
witnesses are, for the most part, gigantic Prussian
cavalrymen, who clank majestically into the
Court, salute gravely, and at once, with utter
impassivity, reel off these astounding allegations
about rouged warriors ascribing to them all the
decayed nastiness of the later Roman Empire.
THE KANGAROO!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Why not be patriotic, and make kangaroo soup and
kangaroo haunch common on our tables I—Bananaland
weekly.
Now send your kickshaws back to France,
And let your alien dishes flee.
That joints of native venison
May deck our tables merrilee ;
Let ne’er a turkey mount the board,
Set free your fancy feathered crew,
While patriots hail, in sweet accord,
Our chiefest dish —the Kangaroo !
Long have we passed him heedless by,
While roasted beeves had pride of place,
While mutton-chops enchanting rose
To lend our board an ovine grace ;
While we to fish from Yankee port,
And potted fleshes—Yankee too—
In mad submission paid our court,
Forgetful of the Kangaroo.
We knew—-one time the legend ran —
His tail would make a soup divine ;
But we could merit see in naught
But English dish and foreign wine ;
Our heathen blindness now is past,
And visions open on our view
Of gastronomic vistas vast
That rise around the Kangaroo.
Now tell me not of Highland deer,
Prate not of pheasant fair to me ;
No charm is left in lordly cheer,
Of calipash or calipee ;
Away, ye grov’lling porkers all!
I loathe you like the frog ragout
They prize so dear in dainty Gaul —
For Io 1 he comes—the Kangaroo !
Adieu ! ye leathery fowls of spring
(Ye were, I fear, a wintry crew).
Good-bye, good-bye, O Christmas goose
(A tough tradition, faith, were you).
Depart, imported crab and prawn,
And all the mystic pott d crew :
We see a day portentous dawn—
This is the Era Kangaroo !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
THE DISHONESTY OF JONES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With Jones a treasure hunt I organised,
’Twas for our local chapel’s wilting cause ;
The elders viewed the scheme with seemly joy,
Nor suffered thought of guile to give them pause.
The entries came in at a goodly pace ;
For fifty quid we made the voucher out.
And then with Jones I sought a lonely dell,"
And hid the screed, as though ’twere meant to sprout.
All through three weary days the church-folk searched,
Nor found a thing. Fear entered in my bones.
Anxious, I sought the bank and learned the worst;
I’d cached the voucher safely—so had Jones.
N.S.W.
“ 10-2-4.”


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Rings approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
BEWARE
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Ansemia, Insomnia, etc.
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” rings, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
No ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MAGNETIC, and
“ Rheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for tlie use of these
Rings, write—
THE RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTDu (Head Office
in Australasia ), 45-47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland:
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
-V
The Perfect Washing Clothing.
INDIAN-MADE Clothing is probably the most perfect washing
Clothing you could buy. Both fabrics and garments are pro-
duced in* India, largely by hand, and are made up in such a
way that they will stand extreme treatment in the-laundry. The '
material is marvellously hard-wearing—the cutting is absolutely the
latest fashion—there are so many sizes and between sizes that we
have a suit to fit almost any man’s form.
WHITE DUCK or DRILL COATS, 10/6, with Roll or
Patrol Collar.
WHITE DUCK or DRILL TROUSERS, 9/6.
INDIAN GREY and BROWN DRILL—Coats, Sac, 12/6;
Norfolk, 14/6; Double-Breasted Sac, 14/6; Patrol, 12/6.
Vests, Single-Breasted, 7/6; Trousers, 10/6.
ASSAM SILK —Sac Coats, 30/-; Double-Breasted Norfolk,
32/6; Trousers, 21/-
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“Men's 309-311 George Street
Outfitters/' SYDNEY.
Cheerful to notice the wide range of in-
terests covered by a Sydney meeting, the other
day, to protest against further alienation of Port
Jackson foreshores and to plead for the resump-
tion of some of the harbor’s fringe which has
already passed into private hands. “ Sosh ” and
“ Anti-Sosh” rubbed shoulders amicably, and
united in resolutions affirming the superiority of
public over private interests in the matter. Is it
that Sydney at last, in spite of its lassitude, in
spite of the poison of its anti-Australian press, is
beginning to grow a civic soul?
A * * *
Pending Mr. Crick’s appeal to the Privy
Council against the decision of the N.S.W.
Supreme Court striking him off the roll of
solicitors, he has engaged not to attempt to
practise before the High Court. This was stated
the other day when he was cited before that
Court to show cause why the decision of the
N.S.W. Court should not be endorsed in the
High Court. The Australian Judges, in their re-
marks, seemed to indicate that in such cases their
attitude would be to endorse decisions of the State
Courts without question, unless some special
reason to the contrary were shown.
RUBBING IT IN.
DIVES: "Damme, sir, why should I
remember the poor ?”
LAZABUS: “Because in this Democratic country
you can never tell when one of us may
become rich.”
In the Divorce Courts peeps out the Aus-
tralian casualness. One lady told the staggered
Sydney Court the other day how her husband, in
response to persistent badgering, had at last con-
descended to provide her with a home. It was
dark when she arrived, and he met her at the
gate, and showed her into a slab hut containing one
room and a kitchen furnished with a bed and a
stretcher. He merely swung the lantern round,
gave her one fleeting glimpse of the “home,” and
then showed her out again. She got a decree.
Several ladies, having tried matrimony, just wrote
to their husbands that they were disillusioned.
One said she would not live with him if his hair
hung with diamonds, and that she was going on
her own. Another wrote her abandoned spouse
that she was “full” and would sooner “ graft ”
than keep house for him ; while a third said she
wasn’t coming back and he could do as he pleased.
Sixteen years ago an Act was passed in
Victoria amalgamating the two branches of the
legal profession. This was done in the interests
of the public. It was held that the farce
of instructing a barrister to plead in court added .
materially to the cost of litigation without in any
way benefiting the litigant. The barristers at
once formed an inner union among themselves,
and determined that they would not accept briefs
with “amalgams”—men who practised both as
solicitors and barristers. The Judges, all having
been drawn from the ranks of the barristers, also
set their faces against the appearance in court of
the “amalgam.” These things have effectually
defeated the purpose of the Amalgamation Act.
Now the barristers, of Victoria. New South Wales
and Queensland have drawn up an agreement
under which they bind themselves not to appear
in the High Court, except with members of the
Bar; “amalgams” are barred. The lawyer
evidently is above the Law.
* * * *
Writers of up-to-date Australian fiction
will soon have to erase the aboriginal corroboree
from their list of “props.” Our black brother
progresses. The fantastic war-paint and spears
and clashing shields and weird fire-light against
the sombre background of eucalyptus; the eerie
chanting and tremendous saltatory gymnastics of
warriors; the antique ’possum supper—these things
pass, and, lo ! the waxed ballroom floor, electric
light, and evening costumes. Clarence River
(N.S.W.) aborigines recently held a “social,”
“admission, Is.; whitefellows, 2s. [observe the
‘color line’]. Ladies cordially invited ; supper
provided.” The ladies wore smart, up-to-date
“confections” (colored silk was popular); gents
appeared in dancing-pumps, gloves, and other
de niggewr toggery ; programme included the
waltz, lancers and schottische; and the sound
of revelry by night went on until rooster-
crow. A mere white hireling operated on
the piano, and another supplied supper, which
wasn’t baked ’possum.
* * -k *
The first J apanese vessel commanded by a
Japanese master passed in through Sydney Heads
a few days ago, and a shiver shook the white mer-
cantile marine. Jap trading vessels are highly
subsidised by the Jap Government, while the Jap
sailorman is paid far less than the white appren-
tice. European shipowners have been already
squeezed out of most of the carrying trade in the
North Pacific, and it is only a question of time
when the little brown man will, if unhindered,
claim the whole South Pacific as his sphere.
* * * *
Dear B.—l have been studying the
posters, scattered by the Westralian Government,
over various farming districts of Great Britain.
Here in Hampshire, where there is a big
rural population, the street walls are yellow
with W.A.’s emigration “ dodgers.” There
is one about four-feet square, printed in
three colors, depicting a selector’s home.
The home has a 50ft. frontage, with two
pieces of wire and some saplings to keep
out the brumbies and alligators. A
6xB tent crowds the front of the
selection, with Bill lying at his ease
in aCunarder deck chair. Three
very fat cows are studying Bill
from the side of the tent, not-
withstanding the fact that the
selection is strewn with ripe
cabbages and asparagus. The
neighboring bush is the abode
of wild fruit and cocoa-nuts
and cheese-like water-melons,
done in two colors all
wild. The Hampshire far-
mer smiles as he passes
Westralia’s poster ad. Pro-
bably he knows more about
cow and fruit and the size
of a holding than the
poster artist employed by
theW.A.G. The Canadian
litho work, usually exhi-
bited side by side with the
Australian, is excellently
displayed, and the boss
artist has learned how to
conceal his icebergs in a
masterly way. At present
the Australian posters here
seem to have been designed by
some slop printing firm in the
East End.—Alba.
Time plays its pranks. This
country’s natal breath was heavy
with the odor of British rum. Once
its legal tender was British rum.
Rum still has its influence. But Aus-
tralia now supplies the rum. Bunda-
berg (Queensland) distillery last week
sent Sydney Admiralty authorities 4500
gallons of rum as a first instalment of
20,000 gallons, ordered for Britain’s Asiatic fleet.
* * * *
The youthful housebreaker who lately
toured the Melbourne suburban districts with
great success, though he was said to have pro-
claimed his identity by his “finger-prints” at
every house of call, has now implicated another
youtn in the robberies. This other youth was
also an escapee from the Salvation Army Home
at Bays water (where bad boys are converted to
righteousness), and the two early Christians, it is
alleged, went marauding together. If that is so,
it suggests that one fellow’s finger-prints are the
same as another’s for purposes of identification,
when a detective has a notion as to whose fingers
were likely to have been at work.
• * * «
The Rev. Fordyce, of Sydney, has his
own solution of the Yellow Peril. “ Support the
work of the evangelisation of China. Bring the
Chinese and Japanese under the influence of
Christianity, whereby the peril will be dispelled.”
Perhaps. But The Bulletin has its doubts.
Japan was no Peril at all in the days when it was
absolutely heathen. Now, when it has reached
the point that the Diet decided only by a, very
narrow majority against the national adoption of
Christianity, it is a very real Peril indeed.
Theoretically, the religion of the Man of Peace
should have the effect Dr. Fordyce claims ; prac-
tically, it hasn’t. Perhaps one day it will when
the Christian priests and parsons learn, them-
selves, the lesson of peace.
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces °as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*
BEHIND THE SCENE.
JULIET: “ It was the nightingale and not the lark
That pierc’d the fearful hollow of thine ear;
Nightly she sings on yon pomegranate tree,
Believe me, love, it was the nightingale.”
Yet Loong is a Chow, and a prominent
citizen of Wolfram . Creek, N. Territory. He
keeps a store there. Till last week he was re-
puted a character almost saintly. It was the
fashion among local evangelists to point out Yet
Loong to the white transgressor as a Morally
Beautiful Thing. When the anti-Opium Crusade
started, Loong helped to get a petition drawn up,
praying for the stoppage of the importation
of the drug into the Territory. Later,
he wrote to the papers protesting bitterly
against “the injustice of certain insinua-
tions that merchants were helping smuggling.”
Consequently it amazed Customs-officer Cleland
considerably when he unearthed (26/11/’O7) 30 tins
of opium from a case of yams consigned to Yet
Loong. Yet Loong is still a prominent citizen of
Wolfram Creek, but as a moral object-lesson he ha s
slumped horribly. Of course it may be only base
suspicion, and the opium might have been sent to
Yet Loong’s stainless store by Muck Hi with evil
intent —allee same as in melodrama. But Yet
Loong is very much under suspicion.
Australia follows very slavishly in the
track of British follies. Partially-perpetrated
Limericks, of a low order of merit, disfigure many
of our papers at the present time. This foolish-
ness started in England a few months hack, be-
came pestiferous, and is now moribund from
natural causes. Because Pansy Montague, dis-
guised as a very hairy “Lady Godiva,” self-
advertised slowly through Coventry six weeks
agone, a stout young local woman is also im-
pelled to swathe herself in unconvincing false hair
and a mackintosh, and play the same game at
Bondi. Two years since no backyard in the United
Kingdom was immune from treasure-hunters,
after the sums hidden by newspapers which made
up for the slackness of their interest by the
feverishness of their advertising. Sure enough.
Wonderland City (Sydney) has started this awful
practice within its precincts; and it seems liable
to spread. Also, Diabolo, which is the latest
silly British game, rapidly infects Australia.
Can’t we at least invent an occasional folly of
our own ?
* * * *
“C.C.”: Be Limerick competitions (B.
21/11/’O7). There is no further doubt in my mind
as to the absurdity of the “money for brains”
aspect of the gamble. I know two men who sent
in the same line to conclude a recent Limerick.
One of them drew £5O 2s. 9d.; the other wasn’t
even placed among the ICO consblation-priy.e
winners. In the “ missing word” competitions a
competitor knew why he failed to score a prize.
He was either right or wrong in his word. If
right, he got his share of the plunder, even
though his paper was at the bottom of the hat
after the shaking. It was a game of skill. What
could Wade do now if some newspaper revived
it? It is less of a gamble than the “brainy”
Limerick raffle.
The “ Limericking ” childishness has got
down to the bedrock imbecility of this newspaper
birth notice in the Cold Country :
A story to 3'ou I will tell,
Of Mr. and Mrs. Foil well;
On Saturday morn
A baby was born,
Young Teddy—as sound as a bell.
* * * -*
The local outbreak of “ Limericking ” im-
becility has started a new industry. Advt. from
Sydney D.T. (29/11/’O7)
LIMERICKS. —Last lines composed, 6 for Is. May
win £5O. Rhymster, 135 King-street, Newtown.
“Six for a shilling” just about fixes the “intel-
lectual” plane of the “ skilful amusement.”
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A BEAT’S PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not see why man complains,
I cannot understand.
If woman wants to hold the reins,
To take the whole command,
And so extend her bloomin’ sphere,
It ain’t for me to interfere.
She longs to figure in the law,
Likewise in politics.
All right—l wouldn’t care a straw
If she was makin’ bricks,
For buildin’ up the nation’s halls,
Or on the ’ighway breakin’ spalls.
I scorn the bloke what splits his neck,
And chucks his ’ands about,
Because the softer blessfed sex
Is crowdin’ workmen out
Of all the kinds of jobs that’s known,
To do the yacker on her own.
A proper ladies’ man am I;
That’s why I’m lyin’ here,
Admirin’ of the lovely sky,
And drinkin’ bottle beer.
I’m not a tyrant nor a jay—
I’m lettin’ woman have her way !
VIC.
SNELL.
LOVE’S GENEROSITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have made dresses for the races, and supplied the
trimmings, and had to go and beg for my earnings. One
person told me (her husband, who delighted in seeing
his “ fairest of the fair ” decked, stood by) that she had
no money.— Letter to the Age (11/11/'o7).
Go on, beloved Fuchsia May—go on
And slap the shiny silks upon your back
In splendid folds and frills ! Shove on ehifion
And all the sweet, expensive things you lack,
In breathless hose and wild, seductive skirts !
Go on —loud flounce without and frill within !
Spare not, beloved Fuchsia —though it hurts
Like billy-o, someone must pay ! Slob in !
O, lovety shoe ! O, tender sweep thereon
Of dust-bedraggled frock ! O, limb-wrap fine
That shows the alluring flesh beneatli—the scone
And palm are thine, my love, fair Fuchsia mine !
Go on ! Stack up the bills—a goodly pile !
Although it’s hard enough to make your keep,
I like to see good clothes behind your smile.
At least we’ll get your pretties on the cheap !
Rip out the reeking plume, my sweetest own,
And flench the skin from off the screaming beast —
He has no friends ; and with good Featherbnne
’Stablish your figure, north and south and east
And west—-you want it all ! Nor drop a tear
For me ! I’m but a mere, hardworkin’ man.
I have no cash ; but there —what matter, dear !
Someone must pay—just rake in what you can !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and Fixed Engines, Traction
Engines, High Speed Engines, Thrashing Machines, Oil
Engines, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
everything. A. Ransome & Co. Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers.
Steel Rails, Tramwa' Material, Locomotives, Gas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of New South Wales :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Sept., 1901.. 104,647 10 p.c. = 100,000 4,647 1,281,543
Mar., 1902..115,507 10 „ „ 100,000 15,507 1,297,050
Sept., 1902.. 118,229 10 „ ~100,000 18,229 1,315,279
Mar., 1903..115,793 10 ~ ~ 100,000 15,793 1,331,072
Sept., 1903.. 117,370 10 „ „ 100,000 17,370 1,348,442
Mar., 1904..119,582 10 ~ ~ 100,000 19,582 1,368,024
Sept., 1904..120,435 10 ~ ~ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., 1905..127,811 10 „ „ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept., 1905.. 126,963 10 „ ~100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar., 1906..129,385 10 „ ~ 100,000 29,385 1,472,618
Sept., 1906.. 130,115 10 „ ~100,000 30,115 1,502,733
Mar., 1907..126,581 10 „ „ 100,000 26,551 1,529,314
Sept., 1907.. 142,966 10 ~ ~ 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
In the half-year to the end of March the directors made a
contribution of £15,000 to the Buckland Fund, for the
benefit of officers of the bank : in the foregoing, this
amount has been deducted from profits, and that partly
explains the long jump shown between the profits of the
past two half-years. During the half-year an addition of
£425,400 has been made to the capital, bringing it up to
£2,425,400. The total capital to be raised by' the issue is
£500,000, so that on September 30 £74,600 remained un-
paid. The new capital at the present distribution carries
three months’ dividend. This new capital having been
received by instalments, it is impossible to state abso-
lutely what the earnings for the half-y'ear were, based on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves); but, taking
the new capital as being available for three months, the
result compares with that of previous terms like this :
Mar., 1904 .. £7 210 p.c. Mar., 1906.. £7 10 3 p.c.
Sept., 1904.. 7 3 0 „ Sept., 1906.. 7 910 „
Mar., 1905.. 71010 ~ Mar., 1907.. 7 4 1 „
Sept., 1905.. 7 8 8,, Sept., 1907.. 71210 „
For the previous half-year the earnings showed £8 Is. Bd.
percent per annum before deducting the £15,000 handed
to the Buckland Fund.
The capital was no doubt increased for two
reasons—(l) to allow of a greater distribution of profits
without nominally increasing the rate of dividend bey'ond
10 per cent. ; (2) to offer greater protection to creditors,
the liabilities having grown to eight times the total of
shareholders’ funds. There has, however, been such an
increase of deposits during the year that the liabilities
still amount to over £7 12s 6d. for every £1 of capital and
reserves, in spite of the increased capital. This compari-
son shows how the various items have moved in the 12
months:—
Sept., ’O6. Sept., ’O7.
Notes .. .. £959,908 £982,704 Inc. £22,796
Bills, etc. .. 3,354,027 3,254,518 Dec. 99,509
Deposits .. 24,812,021 26,056,302 Inc. 1,244,281
Liquid assets .. 12,316,286 13,398,412 Inc. 1,082,126
Advances .. 19,705,604 20,311,637 Inc. 606,033
Premises .. 715,000 690,000 Dec. 25,000
In 12 nionths, therefore, the assets have been increased
by-£1,663,159, provided as follows:
p Deposits, etc £1,167,569
New capital 425,400
Undivided profit .. .. 69,547
Provision for rebate on bills .. 643
Total.. ..£1,663,159
The proportion of liquid assets to liabilities is now just
over 44 per cent. ; and that appears to be unnecessarily
large. In other words, on its present resources, it
appears that the bank could safely take a considerably
larger advance business if it were offering. Probably
that business has not been pushed, in view of the fine
return which call money has been commanding in
London and the uncertainty of the season in Australia ;
while it has also to be remembered that a large amount of
money has only very' lately come into the bank’s hands.
This and other Australian banks cannot expect to reap
again for many a day such a rich harvest in London. In-
stead, they will now suffer the reaction—metals, for
instance, have already slumped badly, and the outlook
for wool, though bright, isn’t what it was a while ago.
But while this must have its effect on banking profits, it
will be seen that the 8.N.5.W., on account of its very
strong holding of coin, etc., is in a position to benefit by
any expansion of business and a call for more accom-
modation.
So far as it has been possible to judge, the Bank
of N. S. Wales had, of recent years, not adopted the sys-
tem of writing down assets hard, and thus practically
disguising some of its reserves. Its premises account, for
instance, grew steadily from £655,000 at Sept., 1902, to
£715,000 at March, 1906. During the past year, however,
the item has been written down (out of profits, presum-
ably—it is hardly likely that premises have been sold),
and now premises stand at £690,000, or £25,000 less than
they did at Sept., 1906 ; £lO,OOO has come off in the past
six months. This amount is not included in the profits
shown in the table at the top of this.
* * * *
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank :
Profits on
Net Repur-
Busi- chase of
ness Old De- Written Re-
June, Profits, posits. Dividends. off. serves.
1898 .. £6,034 £29,175 Nil £8,816 £37,263
1899.. 15,411 21,032 Nil 6,582 67,124
1900 .. 38,465 8,678 2£ p.c. = £13,486 100,781
1901.. 41,907 579 3£ „ „ 18,880 124,387
1902 .. 49,329 4,929 4 „ „ 21,57 S 157,067
1903 .. 40,806 1,828 4 „ „ 21,578 178,123
1904.. 45,585 1,273 4 „ „ 21,578 203,403
1905.. 48,348 1,527 4 „ „ 21,578 85,991 145,709
1906.. 48,667 1,797 4& „ „ 24,275 8,990.162,908
1907 .. 58,324 659 5 „ „ 26,972 8,750 186,169
In 1893 this bank met the common trouble of the time,
and, like so many others, did not realise how bad the
trouble really was. There were 45,000 shares ; £lO per
share was written off (£450,000), £l2 10s. was called up,
and later another £lO was written off, leaving the shares
£l2 10s. paid as at present. Reserves (about £300,000)
were wiped out, and also 1845 shares, leaving the present
issue 43,155. In 1896 a rearrangement had to be made,
with a redistribution of the old liabilities. This is how
the matter stood then compared with the present :
1596. 1907. Reduction.
(1) Debenture stock ..£983,547 £983,547
(2) Terminable receipts.. 891,454 Nil £891,454
(3) Pref. insc. stock .. 889,419 889,419
(4) Def. „ „ .. 808,758 791,018 17,740
The first lot carry 4 per cent., the third 3 per cent., the
fourth 3 per cent! ; but the interest on this last lot may
be put up to 4J per cent., and it was so put up in 1900.
The progress made in shifting the trouble during the last
few years is shown next :
Reconstructed Paid Off
Deposits. During Year.
June, 1900 .. £3,176,074 .. £42,416
1901 .. 2,941,659 .. 234,415
” 1902 .. 2,906,379 .. 35,280
” 1903 .. 2,790,924 .. 115,455
’ 1904 .. 2,780,482 .. 10,442
1905 .. 2,681,724 .. 98,758
” 1906 .. 2,672,734 .. 8,990
’ 1907 .. 2,663,984 .. 8,750
After putting £15,000 to reserves, and making certain
other provisions, one-fourth of the profit goes to re-pur-
chasing deferred inscribed stock. In 1906 there was
£BO9l available ; with that, the stock being at a small
discount (£659 on the whole purchase), £8750 worth of
stock was bought and cancelled ; and, on the other side,
the balance was preserved by writing a corresponding
amount off premises.
In some other respects the year’s business shows
up in this way :
1906. 1907.
Notes £41,0C8 £58,865 Inc. £17,857
Bills, etc 471,361 579,439 Inc. 108,078
Deposits at interest.. 1,603,639 1,803,040 Inc. 199,401
Free Deposits .. 1,399,053 1,571,826 Inc. 172,773
Liquid Assets .. 1,886,066 2,206,098 Inc. 320,032
Advances .. .. 4,682,819 4,891,871 Inc. 209,052
Premises .. .. 359,028 351,628 Dec. 7,400
This is as at the dates of the two balance-sheets, before
making the appropriations. The figures show good pro-
gress. The advances have not sprung abnormally, but,
in view of the recent high range of values, that is no dis-
advantage ; yet they show a good, sober increase. The
cash position is strong. The total new liabilities are
£4,013,170 : 55 per cent, of that is represented by liquid
assets. Certainly, besides the new, there are the old
liabilities ; but they are nailed down. That has its dis-
advantages, of course; if the principal is nailed down,
the bank is also bound to pay a pretty stiff rate of in-
terest whether the money can be put to profitable use or
not. It is all right to have this money in good times ;in
bad times it would be liable to prove a bit of a drag. All
the perpetual stocks (old deposits) rank, by the way,
ahead of the shareholders’ capital.
From the profits for the year shown above
£6OOO, to be paid as a bonus to staff, has been deducted.
This system of giving percentage bonuses is becoming
popular with banks : it is viewed probably as “ a good
advertisement.” Mostly, however, the money could be
put to better use by a rearrangement of salaries : the
worst of the bonus system is that the underpaid man
gets necessarily too little of the bonus. With this de-
duction, and after paying the full interest on the old
deposits, the profits show a return of £8 6s. lOd. per
cent, on the capital and reserves.
* * # *
The Australasian Temperance and General
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1897 .. £42,787 £ll,BBB £15,310 £15,559 £198,708
1898.. 46,646 13,816 15,813 17,017 215,725
1599 .. 49,777 17,245 20,033 12,499 228,224
1900.. 53,572 19,760 25,409 8,403 236,68,'
1901.. 61,872 19,909 24,725 17,238 253,865
1902 .. 73,782 18.640 24,559 30,583 284,448
1903 .. 73,983 19,585 28,263 26,135 310,583
1904 .. 79,779 15,302 29,285 32,192 342,775
1905 .. 89,738 18.594 36,071 34,773 377,548
1906.. 98,666 21,026 38,925 38,715 416,263
1907 .. 108,448 21,451 39,616 47,381 463,644
Industrial Life Department.
Taken from Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1897 .. £13,067 £14,741 £5,892 £7,566 £25,302
1898.. 17,878 16,744 5,680 4,546 20,756
1899 .. 24,200 20,560 6,924 3,284 17,472
Added to
Funds.
1900 .. 29,104 19,839 7,461 1,804 19,276
1901.. 40,198 26,938 7,724 5,536 24,812
1902 .. 53,597 35,444 8,294 9,859 34,671
1903.. 69,547 46,230 8,925 14,392 49,063
1904 .. 82,742 48,595 13,365 20,782 69,845
1905 .. 103,499 54,761 14,213 34,525 104,370
1906 .. 118,433 58,833 16,444 43,156 147,526
1907 .. 124,703 52,259 16,129 56,285 203,811
Accident Branch.
Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds.
Sept., 1907 .. £2477 £1092 £1177 £2OB
This society is making rapid progress so far as increase of
business and funds is concerned. The one doubt left in
tbe mind is as to whether the foundation of some of it is
as good as it ought to be. The quinquennial investiga-
tion, made in 1905, left behind it a suspicion that some
unsound methods have crept in. No doubt, in life insur-
ance, as in other things, unsound methods sometimes
“ come off.” More than one office has reached prosperity
by, for instance, over-valuing its assets ; this has enabled
it to show a surplus that has struck the public so favor-
ably that the job of getting people to take policies
has been simplified; consequently the expense rate has
come down with a run, and in spite of the unsound
method, the office has more than pulled through. The
art of window-dressing is not confined to the struggling
tobacconist, who lures the public with majestic tiers of
empty cigar-boxes bearing choice labels. But, though it
“comes off” sometimes, short-cuts to prosperity are
liable to lead into a bog.
Still, assuming that the T. and G. adopted some
unsound methods, the rapid increase of business, accom-
panied by a greatly reduced expense rate, looks as though
it will land the society on solid ground. The movement
in the expense rate is particularly striking :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Ordinary. Industrial.
1898 .. £29 12 4 per cent. £93 13 2 per cent.
1899 .. 34 12 11 „ 84 19 2 „
1900 .. 36 17 8 ~ 68 3 4 „
1901 .. 32 3 7 „ 67 0 3 „
1902 .. 25 5 3 „ 66 2 7 „
1903 .. 26 9 5 „ 66 9 5
1904 .. 221810 „ 5814 7
1905 .. 21 1 1 „ 5218 2
1906 .. 21 6 3 ~ 49 13 7 ~
1907 .. 19 15 7 „ 41 18 7
The rate in the Ordinary department is all the better
when the proportion of new business is considered.
Assuming that the old or renewal business costs 7 per
cent, of the premiums, and that the balance of the expenses
is the cost of the new business, then the latter was
got and managed at a trifle over 80 per cent, of the
first year’s premiums ; and this rate ranks among- the
very best in Australia. Even the A.M.P. new-business
expense rate, computed on the same basis, was 84 per
cent, for last year. Yet the average size of the new
policies was only £9O ; and in the ordinary' course that
low figure should mean a high expense rate. The fact no
doubt is that the Industrial department is used as a
feeder for the Ordinary—that the persistent Industrial
policy-holder is passed on to the Ordinary department as
fie gets better acquainted with insurance ideas. The low
average of the policy suggests, too, that the medical
examinations are probably "in many cases dispensed with.
That would help to produce a low expense rate ; but later
on it may very likely produce a high mortality experience.
A low expense rate puts money into the pocket of
an insurance office at once ; but in a few y'ears
inadequate medical examination (or no examination at
all) may take the same money out at an abnormal rate.
To further divide up the expenses an Accident
branch has now been added. The expenses here, as in
the Industrial branch, are high ; and under the present
wasteful system they can’t be anything else. The Miners’
Accident Relief Fund, of which every employee on every'
mine employing more than 10 men in N. S. Wales is a
member, is an example of what is possible when this
waste is done away with —the waste involved in chasing
men to insure and to keep insured. The working ex-
penses of that fund are about 5 per cent. That is to say,
for. every'l/-paid in, it can afford to pay out about 4d.
more by way of benefits than even this cheaply-run T.
and G. office. Unfortunately', however, the Miners’
Fund is confined to miners, and to certain special risks.
The T. and G. interest earnings are satisfactory,
considering the disposition of the assets :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £4 5 11 per cent. I 1904 ... £4 9 1 per cent.
1901 .. 410 3 „ „ | 1905 ... 410 6 „ „
1902 .. 4 9 4 „ „ I 1906 .. 4 9 1 „ „
1903 .. 4 8 8 „ „ | 1907 .. 4 9 2,,,,
Public securities represent 44.9 per cent., mortgages
21.3 per cent., and properties 13.7 per cent, of total
assets. Public securities, however, include municipal
loans, and, as the Commercial Bank of Australia and one
or two others in N. S. Wales (including the bailiff in
charge of Camperdown municipality) could certify,
municipal loans are not always as good as they ought to
be. Still, even with this reservation, this section of the
year’s post-mortem can be written down as very satis-
factory. #
The Queensland Insurance Co. (Sydney),
which is the North Queensland Insurance Co., with the
North Queensland Accident Insurance Co. added :
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897 .. £10,688 6 per cent. = £3206 £7,482 £16,982
1898.. 1,089 4 „ ~ 2138 15,933
1899.. 4,174 5 „ „ 2672 1,502 17,435
1900 .. 14,064 8 „ „ 4275 9,789 27,224
1901 .. 15,291 8 „ „ 4285 11,006 38,230
1902.. 11,629 8 ~ ~ 4295 7,334 45,564
Loss.
1903 .. 4,369 Nil 41,195
Profits.
1904.. 11,057 8 per cent. = 4300 6,757 47,952
1905.. 8,527 8 ~ ~ 4300 4,227 52,179
1906 .. 13,212 8 ~ ~ 4300 8,912 61,091
N.Q. Accident Co.’s reserves. .. 976 62,067
1907.. 20,260 8 „ ~ 6000 14,260 76,327
When in 1905 this co. decided to go into the accident
and employers’ liability business, it found that, owing to
some flaw in the. old Companies Act, it would be
necessary for a new co. to be formed for the purpose.
The North Queensland Accident Insurance Co. was
therefore organised, and hung’ out a signboard early in
1906. Subsequently it became possible to amalgamate
the businesses, and the welding was finished recently, so
that all the operations for the past 12 months are
presented in one balance-sheet. The paid capital of the
co. is now £75,000 ; and, though it is only during the last
few years that it has got into its stride, the reserves
already exceed the capital. Presumably, like the rest,
this co. has had a bad marine-insurance year ; yet the
profits constitute a record, and, better still, just
over 70 per cent, of them have been laid by as
reserves for the better protection of insurers.
For years past the lay-by has been highly
satisfactory, until now the reserves are 144 per cent, of
the net premiums for the year—a better showing than
the British offices make, on the average. The proportion
of capital to premiums (and, roughly, therefore, to risks as
well) is also nearly twice as great as the British average.
Combining the figures for the two offices for 1906, in
order to make the comparison with 1907 fairer, these
further results are obtained :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £40,681 £25,703 £13,058 70’7 p.c. 32’1 p.c.
1900.. 75,310 44,053 20,529 58’5 „ 27’2 ~
1905.. 74,11 S 43,129 26,020 58’2 „ 35’1 ~
1906.. 81,663 41,700 29.021 51T „ 35’5 „
1907.. 104,153 53,052 34,987 50’9 „ 33’6 ~
The loss rate is high ; this is no doubt because of the
large marine business done —a business that means a high
average loss rate, compensated for by a low expense
rate. The assets are, on the whole, a good lot; of the
total of £170,934,' £36,000 is in Government securities,
and £69,418 in bank deposits ; £34,999 is in properties,
the balance in branch balances, etc. No satisfactory
estimate can be made of the interest earnings, because a
considerable sum must recently have come in by way of
new capital. The total earnings on interest account were
£4146. The rate would, however, necessarily be low
from the very nature of the securities,
*
The Swan Brewery Co., which ministers to
Westralia’s thirst for beer and Melbourne’s ditto for
dividends :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. ' Off. serves, serves.
Mar., ’O2 £20,483 24p.c. =£9,131 £554 £10,798 £81,444
Sept.,’o2 15,144 24 „ „ 9,131 617 5,396 86,840
Mar., ’O3 23,660 32 ~ „ 12,174 308 11,178 98,018
Premiums on new share issue 2,275 100,293
Sept.,’o3 14,740 24p.c. = 12,100 264 2,316 102,609
Premiums on new share issue 12,834 115,443
Mar., ’O4 29,717 32 p.c. = 16,213 346 13,158 128,601
Premiums on new (bare issue 5,265 133,866
Sept.,’o4 19,571 24 p.c. 12,174 326 7,071 140,937
Securities written up .. 1,350 142,287
Mar., ’O5 24,706 32p.c. = 16,232 238 8,236 150,523
Sept., ’O5 19,663 24 ~ „ 12,174 267 7,222 157,745
Mar., ’O6 24,383 32 ~ „ 16,232 186 7,965 165,710
Sept., ’O6 13,038 24 „ „ 12,174 832 32 165,742
(and Div. Tax)
Mar. ,’O7 24,601 24 p.c. = 12,783 617 11,201 176,943
Sept., ’O7 14,528 24 „ ~ 12,783 1020 725 177,668
The Westrali an thirst ebbs and flows with the regularity
of the tides, and this co.’s profits ebb and flow in
harmonv. An amazingly profitable concern it has been ;
and the'Westralian conditions have been so uncommon
that ordinary rules don’t apply to the case. For
instance, a few years ago the co. actually wrote up some
of its assets ; ithad started to provide a fund for writing
down hotel properties, and then it changed its mind,
presumably on a revaluation, and wrote them up again.
All the same, most of the hotel properties have,
according to the accounts, been bought within
the last few years; that is to say, they were
not acquired before Perth and other Westralian property
had its great jump in value. At September, 1900, hotel
properties stood in the books at £18,793 (cost) ; they now
stand at £176,781, less £5312, “part proceeds of goodwills.”
This last is a writing-off which hasn’t hitherto figured in
the accounts ; probably the amount ought to be included
among the half-year’s profits in the above table, and then
be written off, only it isn’t at all certain that the sales
referred to were made during this half-year. The
amounts shown in the table as written off are charges
made against the leasehold liability, guarantee, and
trade account. The provision for depreciation of brewery
plant, machinery, etc., is charged direct to profit and
loss ; apart from amounts spent on maintenance, these
depreciation items totalled £2158 for the half-year. Not
only hotel properties but brewery lands and buildings
(£73,292) stand in at cost ; and this is the possibly weak
point in the situation. The rental return is certainly
large—just about 8 per cent.—but in a place like
Westralia, where values have been inflated by an output
of gold which obviously cannot be maintained, rental
value is no criterion of capital value. The high rent
siniply ought to mean that a substantial part of it is put
aside as a sinking fund for the rapid return of capital. If
it is all regarded as profit pure and simple there is apt to
come an awkward awakening later on.
* * » *
The Queensland Deposit Bank and Building
Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the year when it wrote off
£58,790, of which £19,595 went to wipe out a profit and
loss debit-
Added to
Interest
Busi- Suspense a/c Profit Added Nominal
ness from from to Re- Re-
Sept., Loss. Earnings. Sales. serves. serves.
1899 .. £748 £5OO £1022 £774 £5,464
Profit.
1900 .. 192 200 2253 2645 8,109
1901 .. 331 500 1054 1885 9,994
1902 .. 287 295 582 10,576
1903 .. 680 303 983 11,559
1904 .. 462 332 794 12,353
1905 138 138 12,491
1906 .. 86 86 12,577
Loss.
1907 .. 102 43 59 12,636
The co. which has until 1918 to get rid of its old liabilities
by instalments, has not been making much progress
lately,
Property and Cash
Capital. Deposits, etc. Advances. etc.
1899 .. £36,589 £56,029 £94,113 £3828
1902 .. 46,771 42,137 96,525 2846
1905 .. 47,291 35.559 94,478 757
1906 .. 47,304 34,567 93,023 1284
1907 .. 47,304 33,092 92,906 127
In eight years £22,937 has thus been whittled off the
liabilities ; but, of that, £10,715 has been provided by
capital (meantime, however, £4632 has been forfeited).
The profit derived from various sources in those eight
years has amounted to £7215 ; but £43 had to be pro-
vided out of that last year to cover losses on foreclosed
properties that were sold. Of the “property and ad-
vances ” item shown above, £36,151 represents advances,
but how much of this is new and fully interest-bearing it
is impossible to say. . The total income for the year was
£2028. On the average of the property and advances
this means a return of little over £2 3s. per cent, gross ;
so there is either serious over-valuation or the property
account must consist almost wholly of unproductive
land. On the advances alone, the total income would
show only £5 12s. per cent, gross. The liquidation is
nowadays painfully slow ; and nearly everything seems
to depend upon the future of the market for such land as
the co. owns. And that future is a mystery, so the co. s
prospects are a mystery too. No doubt the advances be-
fore mentioned, helped along by realisations and a little
profit now and then, will enable it to scrape through so
far as the scheme for repaying depositors is concerned ;
but what will remain for shareholders, only the future
can say. Certainly, those who still hold on have the_ ad-
vantage of the forfeited capital ; that and the nominal
reserves will provide a pretty substantial fund for writing
down properties.
* * * *
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and
Builling Society (Bendigo, Vic.): —
Net Added to Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. ser '(® s '
1900 .. 5 per cent. =£2480 £21,296
1901 ..£2641 5 „ ~ 2461 £lBO 21,4,6
1902 .. 2310 5 „ „ 2323 v 21,403
1903 .. 1905 5 „ „ 9151 21,217
1904 .. 1611 5J „ „ 2309 20,519
1905 .. 2124 6 „ ~ 2407 20,236
1906 .. 3527 6J „ „ 2633 894 21,130
1907 .. 3247 6 \ ~ ~ 3090 157 21,287
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate only,
the amount which will be absorbed by the dividend being
at present only an estimate —the dividend is paid on
“ equation value.” The profits are shown net, after de-
ductions from the conting’ency reserve, which is provided
to meet probable losses. The accounts for the past four
years show :
Written off
Gross Contingency Net
Profit. Fund. Profit.
1904 .. £3431 £lB2O £l6ll
1905 .. 3474 1350 2124
1906 .. 3946 419 3527
1907 .. 4363 1116 3247
Apparently amounts are written off as assets are realised
—they are referred to as “ ascertained losses.” In
that case the net profit is not a criterion of the co.’s
success during the year to which the figures relate ; for in
a dull year, when there are no realisations and no “ ascer-
tained losses,” net profits would show up well ; while in a
good year (as during last year, for example) the calls on
the contingency fund would be large, simply because the
society would realise foreclosed properties freely. In 1905
the capital had worked down to £41,480 ; it is now up to
£49,074 —Bendigo investors seem to look to this society
when there isn’t much in the mining way to engage their
attention. The deposits are £86,479, as against £95,578
twelve months ago ; and the double movement, reducing
the disproportion of liabilities to capital, is distinctly
satisfactory. Even now, however, the co. has non-liquid
assets amounting to £154,959 to be protected by £70,361
of capital and reserves; and, though formerly good re-
serves were built up, nothing whatever of that sort has
been done during the past seven years. In other words,
the dividends and ascertained losses have absorbed rather
more than the profits for the past seven years ; and that
is distinctly not the sort of finance which has made
Bendigo what it is.
* * * *
The Fourth Victoria Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne):— _
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1898.. £3,353 2 p.c. =£2024 £1329 £4,315
1899.. 4,214 2„ „ 2022 2192 4,315
1900.. 5,586 3 ~ ~ 3036 1550 £lOOO 5,310
1901.. 6,865 4,, ~ 3864 3001 8,316
1902.. 11,402 5 „,, 457 S —. 6824 15,140
1903.. 12,811 6 „,, 5248 1046 6517 21,657
1904.. 7,746 6,, ~ 4'820 2926 24,583
1905.. 7,640 6 „,, 4542 20S 2890 27,473
1906.. 8,768 6 ~ ~ 4549 1061 3158 30,631
1907.. 9,496 7 ~ ~ 5259 83S 3369 34,000
The amounts written off have gone to provide for losses
made on time-payment sales —in other words, to makeup
the difference between the profit that was assumed and
the profit that has later on been actually made. Now,
take this comparison :
1895 1900 1906 1907
Permanent Capital .. £35,606 £72,741 £72,741 £72,741
Investing Capital .. 58,171 28,003 3,445 3,099
Deposits, etc. .. .. 134,076 74,334 191,451 193,490
Advances 117,857 89,345 223,205 241,676
Foreclosed properties.. 64,146 49,935 31,381 18,648
Other freeholds.. .. 40,000 44,478 44,478 44,478
Interest earned p.c. , .
on average assets .. 3/18/- 4/19/- 6/4/5 ■ 6/8/6
The advances are nearly three times greater than they
were seven years ago ; and a very large proportion of
them have been made during the last three years of un-
usual prosperity and high prices ; so it is at least probable
that the writings-off in the future will be much larger,
wherefore the net profits may be smaller, than they
are at present. Certainly very fine progress has
been made, especially in the matter of getting rid
of properties thrown on the society’s hands. That
can be looked at in two ways, though. It means that
latterly there has been an unusual demand for properties
at unusual prices ; and the question is whether the very
large advances haven’t been made on the basis of unusual
prices too. Of course provision may have been made for
all that, apart from the reserve funds, but it isn’t visible
in the published accounts. Beyond this extra risk, there
seems to be no speck on the wonderfully-improved out-
look of the society.
* * * *
The City of Brisbane Building Society,
which began nine years ago with a deficit of £42, re-
presenting preliminary expenses :
Dividends and Carried to
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1899 .. £6O 5 per cent. =£36 £24 £lB
1900 ..123 5 ~ „ 108 15 3
Reserves.
1901 ..188 5 ~ „ 167 21 18
1902 ..206 5 „ „ 199 7 25
1903 ..275 5 „ ~ 255 . ?0 45
1904 ..260 5 ~ ~ 241 19 64
1905 ..240 5 „ ~242 62
1906 .. 242 5 ~ „ 239 3 65
1907 ..290 5 ~ ~ 261 29 94
The formal reserve fund has been increased by £27, and,
though this increase is necessarily included with the
year’s profits in the foregoing, it is probably derived from
the forfeiture of investors’ shares. The business, though
it does not progress very fast, appears to be conducted
on safe lines : there are no liabilities to the public what-
ever, so that shareholders have only to risk the deprecia-
tion of assets to the extent of their own funds. The
society’s own resources are, in fact, capable of meeting a
o-reater rush of business : the advances have actually
shrunk during the year from £5277 to £5034. Queens-
land is prosperous, but Brisbane itself does not reflect
the prosperity to any great extent, in the building way
especially. That, however, isn’t an unmixed evil, if it is
an evil at all. In the past the cities—Brisbane like the
rest—were bloated beyond legitimate requirements ; and
now, if they mark time to let the requirements catch up,
things will be all the better in the end.
* * * *
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd., the
co. which tells Melbourne every evening all about the
great sensation (the deficit is accounted for by a paper
item, “ Goodwill,” which still stands at £198,000)
Dividends.
Pref. Ord. Written
Profits. (6 p.c.). off. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Mar ’O4 3750 8 p.c. = 5000 164,131
Sept’ ’O4. 13,873 3750 8 „ „ 5000 720 159,728
Mar ’05.. 14,887 3750 10 „ ~ 6250 701 155,542
Sept.’ ’05.. 15,306 3750 10 „ „ 6250 706 150,942
Mar , ’06.. 13,846 3750 10 „ ~6250 722 147,818
Sept ’06.. 16,012 3750 10 „ „ 6250 724 142,530
Mar ’07.. 15,600 3750 12 „ „ 7500 962 139,142
Sept.,’o7.. 15,666 3750 12 „ ~7500 979 135,705
The capital is £250,000, all in £1 shares paid, half prefer-
ence, half ordinary. As set out above, £198,000 of
this was represented by the intangible thing called
“ Goodwill’’—which, boiled down, chiefly means the
habit people have of buying the Herald and
the Weekly Times. The habit is, no doubt, worth a
good deal while it lasts, but it is much too in-
definite and impalpable and unreliable a thing to figure
in a balance-sheet for a day longer than is necessary.
Nevertheless no attempt whatever has been made to
reduce it. Certainly, a reserve has been built up ; and for
most practical purposes that is probably as good. This
reserve which now reaches £60,000, in addition to £2294
of unappropriated profit, is invested in Board of Works
debentures and fixed deposits. The amounts shown above
as written off are allowances made for depreciation of
machinery, at the rate of about 6 per cent, per annum.


You cannot
Control your
Executor
and you therefore want one com-
bining Strength and Security
with technical knowledge and
business ability, so that your
Estate will be safeguarded and
preserved for the benefit of your
heirs. This can be best ensured
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
2, 4 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen-street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
COBAR. —For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keamand Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * *
Auckland’s New Water Supply.—Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.—Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
Mr. A. M. Myers, said: —“It was only right to state
The Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the*-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
* * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
*■*■**
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd. , Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• • * *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained,
Collison & Co., 483 Oollins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
COIiMANN <a COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BOCHUM UNION
Sole Agents for
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points anti Crossings, Turntables.
Large Stocks always on Rand.
.Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Eleotrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds*. [1
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.):
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re. Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off- serves, serves
Oct., 1902.. lOp.c. = £looo £lO2 £l2l £2381
Apr., 1903.. 956 10 „ „ 1050 2574
Oct., 1903.. 1437 10 „ „ 1050 100 287 25/4
Apr., 1904,. 968 10 „ „ 1050 93 2399
Oct., 1904.. 1375 10 „ „ 1050 100 225 2624
Apr., 1905.. 985 10 „ „ 1050 2d59
Oct., 1905.. 1438 10 „ „ 1050 100 -.88 .-84/
Apr., 1906.. 603 10 „ „ 1050 2400
Oct., 1906.. 1345 10 „ „ 1050 100 195 2595
Apr., 1907.. 999 10 „ „ 1050 2544
Oct., 1907.. 1039 10 „ „ 1050 125 -408
The co. shows the effects of Charters Towers dull times.
Gas rates, £2929 as at October, 1904, are down now to
£2663; and coal is no cheaper. Fortunately the co.
owes nothing beyond a few trade bills; on the other
hand, apart from a fixed deposit of £lOOO, its reserves
and what it has written off to cover depreciation have all
gone in extending plant and mains.
* * * *
The Newcastle miners have scored the first point.
Judge Murray and the other Commissioners appointed to
inquire into the coal-cutting trouble at Hebburn report
(1) that fire damp has appeared “ at least twice in serious
quantities” in one section of the mine ; (2) that there
have been “a considerable number of electrical burn-
outs”; and (3) “these burn-outs are sufficiently start-
ling in their appearance to justify genuine alarm
on the part of the miners.” Some of the principal
colliery-owners got it into their heads that the
alleged alarm of the miners was all flam, and that what
the men really objected to was the coal-cutting machine.
The miners insisted that their alarm was genuine, and
that the colliery-owners’ suspicions were quite un-
founded; and this report ought to satisfy the public
that the men were telling the plain truth. It is all
very well for an owner, sitting in his office, to say that
things are safe enough. Coal-miners can’t forget that
if things are not safe it is they and not the owners who
will become corpses ; Mt. Kembla disasters are not for-
gotten in a day. “Safety” in mining is at best only a
comparative term ; one manager judges as to what is safe
merely by comparing his “ show ” with the one next door,
and it is thus easily possible for the standard to fall
too low. On that point, it is worth recalling that, on the
question of mining at shallow depths under the ocean, a
foremost English engineer (Professor Arnold Lupton)
wrote lately that the risk taken at Newcastle “ proves
that Australian engineers have strong nerves.” The
other way of putting it is that Newcastle owners
have expected the miners to take risks that would make
English engineers feel very uncomfortable.
_ * • * »
The Broken Hill Prop, is going to have a cut-in
at the custom-smelting business. It can do it without
any large capital outlay, because it has four furnaces at
Pt. Pirie out of commission, the desulphurising and other
intermediate processes having increased the work that
the other nine can do. To what extent the co. will
launch out hasn’t yet been decided; the directors and
general manager Delprat will shortly discuss that matter.
For some time past the foreign smelters’charges have
been fairly low, but the demand for Broken Hill concen-
trates has eased off, and the charges have been pushed up
lately. With special facilities for treating these slightly
zinc-bearing sulphide concentrates, and with a handy
market for much of its silver and lead in Indiaand China,
the B. H. Prop, ought to be able to compete with Belgium
and Germany, even though the latter does offer some
subsidy-assistance to the business. Anyway, the B. H.
Prop.’s new idea deserves encouragement. It has been a
standing disgrace to Australia that, with splendid cheap
coke and coal available, it has permitted its smelting
business to drift to foreign countries.
* * * *
Of the Broken Hill Prop.’s 960,000 shares only
214,000 are now on the Australian registers.
* » » ■*
Putting the half-yearly accounts of the Broken
Hill Junction through the mill last week, it seemed cer-
tain that already lead had fallen too far to allow of the
mine making a profit. The fact struck the directors later
on, and on Saturday it was announced that the mine
would shut up indefinitely—the first of the Broken Hill
main-line concerns to cave in. Luckily, there is at least
£2 per ton between the J unction’s costs of producing lead
and those of the next-worst Broken Hill mine.
At Broken Hill the Sulphide Corporation’s
second granulation plant for dealing with tailings is doing
better work than any other plant on the mine, and there
are several. It is turning out a zinc concentrate going
over 46 per cent., with a recovery of 81£ per cent. It
treats about 15 tons an hour, and gets one ton of concen-
trates out of three tons of tailings. A scheme is in hand
for overcoming the difficulty with the slime-treatment
plant, which was stopped some weeks ago because the
qil in the concentrates prevented a separation of the zinc
over the tables. Whether the concentrate, as it comes
from the granulation plant, can be successfully dealt with
by the" smelters is a question which will be answered when
the trial lot sent to Europe has been tested. But it is so
questionable whether the concentrates turned out at the
slime-treatment plant on the Extended lease will be com-
mercially acceptable in their present condition, that an
expert has been engaged to cleanse the concentrates from
oil before carrying their treatment any further.
* * * *
Block 10, Broken Hill, continues to take risks
in order to mine the rich friable ore that long since proved
the rain of Campbell shaft. After taking out a couple of
thousand tons of this ore from around the old shaft on
the 615 ft. level, all hands were piped to pick up the
moving ground. On the 1315 ft. level the ore body in the
north drive is still full-breasted, but it tails off in the
south end—sft. is the width of a good portion of the
shoot south of the crosscut.
* * * c
The burning of Block 14 poppet-legs is a deep,
dark mystery. The worst feature was, that when the fire
was at length discovered, there were no ready means
available for coping with it. Block 14 will, no doubt,
instal a fire-service now.
Junction North mill was put to its top pace
during the week before the half-yearly meeting, appar-
ently for show purposes, and when the run was over the
Krupp tables were out of repair, and things were loose
everywhere. One of the electric pumps is at work on the
1034 ft. level, and is behaving decently. The second one
will deal with the bottom level, where there is an accu-
mulation of black slush. Just now it will be difficult to
get men to tackle that slush.
* * * *
After a game struggle to prop it up, the market
in Broken Hill Junction Norths was allowed to take care
of itself last week. The collapse badly shook one section
of Pitt-street, Sydney.
* * * *
A cable mentions that Lloyd’s (N.S.W.) made
£32,000 in the past year. It would be more interesting
to know what it is losing now. The output must have
been over 1000 tons of metal, so the profit was under £3O
per ton ; and there has been a fall of more than that
below the year’s average.
* * * *
The disturbance over the cancelled Operator
lease, Wyalong (N.S.W.), still continues, owing to Com-
plications of the new Mining Act. The Warden, loth to
say anything unpleasant to any of the 26 applicants,
passed the case on to the Minister, who apparently will
send it back again to the Warden.
• * * *
At the True Blue, Wyalong, gold-bearing stone
has been followed to a depth of 1360 ft. This is the
greatest depth yet attained on the field.
* * * * *
When William Knox reaches the gate of eternal
rest, he may be asked to unravel some nice little political
and financial contradictions. As they are hard task-
masters at that place, it will be no use for him to wave
his hands and say “ Pouf !” He will be lucky if he finds
the shade of W. R. Wilson to help him out, as W.R. did
so often when in material form. Knox, speaking
through Bowes Kelly to the Mt. Lyell shareholders,
would not agree that it is gambling to sell copper
forward. Perhaps not; but will he deny that the Yankee
co. which his Board has had as its agents was not
the main instrument in forcing up copper to an
unsteady height? Will he deny that that crowd, from
H. H. Rogers down, are written about as the most exe-
crated set of gamblers in the States? Will he deny,
further, that Syme, the Lyell director, has gone to New
York to find out whether the copper, which it was said
could not be sold, had really been sold ? If Symes’ mission
was not to discover this, it was a mere wild-goose chase,
and the Lyell crowd wasn’t likely to send any member of
the Board off on a holiday to the U.S. Knox says
more —that forward selling is the best way to handle the
co.’s copper, so as to provide steady returns. Go to !
Why cannot the copper be refined in Australia and the
product sold on the lines followed by other metal pro-
ducers? Brother Jonathan does not do work for bare
commission. No ;itis a handy thing to get control of a
nice little punch of 9000 tons of copper a year. One point
more. Why didn’t Knox explain how it was, when New
York didn’t sell, that the co. failed to try the European
market at the risk of the contractor? Doesn’t the con-
tract provide for such a contingency?
■w * # *
Horace J. Stevens, the American editor of
“ The Copper Handbook,” is fairly comforting on the
question of the outlook for the metal that he knows best.
There will probably be no boom again for years, he ;
but he looks for a sure level “ near the present range of
quotations,” which at the time he wrote were a shade
over £6O. One trouble is that, after a boom, you don’t
get average prices straight off ; “ some little time will be
required to work off the accumulated stocks,” wherefore
things may be worse before they are better.
* * * *
Smart miner Robert Ferguson humped the
family swag from Lyell (Tas.) the other day, Lyell Blocks
having about shut up shop, owing to the copper slump.
Ferguson managed the show for two and a half years,
produced 1843 J tons of copper and concentrates, valued
at £136,326, distributed £104,000 for wages, etc., cleared
off an overdraft of £14,000, andearned two divs. totalling
£15,000. When Ferguson took it over the concern was
grating against the rocks, and the directors were
more or less breathless. If they could only get a
year’s successful run out of the concern, great would
be their joy, so they said in effect. The shares were at a
point less than “ saxpence ” a time, and Ferguson
hustled manfully until he carried them to well over half
a sov. Meanwhile, Tom Harvey and Tolhurst unloaded.
The former held 84,000 shares. J. Bull, in good after-
dinner humor, bought with avidity; but later on passed
a lot of the shares over to the Paris market. The French-
men have them still. The Blocks will be given another
“ go ” when copper climbs back to about £BO a ton ; but
that will be a good while yet.
Principal Westralian results for October :
Value
Tonnag'e. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Golden Horseshoe .. 24,156 £53,872 £21,197 44/7
Great Boulder .. 15,678 48,970 26,456 62/6
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,805 43,439 21,069 43/10
Kalgurli .. .. 11,015 31,400 17,556 57/-
Perseverance .. .. 18,225 31,315 11,906 34/4
Lake View Consols .. 11,520 13,527 1,555 23/5
Associated .. .. 10,080 20,685 7,014 41/1
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,295 21,959 7,778 33/1
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,656 30,018 17,002 51/6
Great Fingall .. .. 22,305 35,116 13,744 31/6
Associated Northern 3,700 12,568 8,509 67/11
Golden Ridge.. .. 1,802 4,360 2,01 S 48/4
Oroya-Black Range .. 3,801 9,626 3,582 51/7
Hainault .. .. 6,208 7,448 924 24/0
Cumberland .. .. 1,030 3,582 820 69/6
South Kalgurli .. 8,813 11,498 408 26/1
Northern Mines .. 8,813 6,420 12 14/6
Cosmopolitan.. .. 5,805 6,616 63 22/9
Gwalia Consols .. 3,993 4,131 40 20/8
Red Hill Westralia .. 1,244 1,685 42 27/1
Greenmount .. .. 1,400 1,309 13 38/8
Ingliston .. .. 1,800 2,592 193 28/9
Losses for the month included Vivien, £1193 ; North
White Feather, £327 ; and Mararoa, £322.
* * * *
Chairman Govett, at the Lake View Consols
meeting: “Sooner or later some brave man will have to
tackle the wages question and bring the Labor party face
to face with the fact that out of these low-grade mines
the miners are now getting too much and the mine-
owners too little. I conclude that sooner or later I shall
have to be that brave man.... Whatever the Labor party
or platform politicians may think or say about the obli-
gations of the mining cos. towards the State, it is not my
view that it is our duty to wear out our machinery and
use up our ore reserves solely in providing wages for
miners. At the present time we are earning profits from
the mine at about the rate of £14,000 a year, which is
just 4 per cent, on our capital, and which represents the
ridiculous profit of 2s. per ton of ore treated. If this
meagre profit is reduced, the Lake View will be shut
down ; and instead of earning a very handsome living
some 400 men or more will find they have got no work
and no wages' at all.” So the proper thing, Chairman
Govett finds out, is to pay the men according to
the earnings of the mine. Somehow these people
always find that out when a mine is about worked
out. They never invite the men to share the cream ; but
when there’s only skim milk left, they point out that it is
outrageous for men not tc be satisfied to share the skim
milk diet.
* * * *
Basing his calculations on the ability of the
enlarged mill to earn a monthly profit of £3OOO, the
chairman of the Hainault (W.A.) told shareholders, at
the recent meeting, that the payment of regular
dividends, which ceased last January, would be resumed
soon. When he had finished, somebody asked why shares
had depreciated 50 per cent, during, the past few months.
Finally, directors were asked straight out whether they
had been selling. They said they hadn’t. Really, how-
ever, in view of the poor results and the drop in the
extraction value of the ore, the wonder is that the shares
did not slump sooner and more suddenly.
* * * *
Chaffers Co. (W.A.) recently nibbled at the
Transvaal leases, Southern Cross, but didn’t bite. A
high percentage of arsenic is the fly in that ointment.
* * * *
Past year’s receipts of the Hannan’s Reward-
Mt. Charlotte Co. (W.A.) were £19,502. Of this sum
£18,034 was spent, leaving a profit of £1468. In January
last the chairman visited the mine, and sounded some
of the large Australian holders as to their
willingness to put up more capital. As a result,
it is now proposed to reconstruct, with a nominal
capital of £17,500 in 140,000 paid shares of 2s. 6d. each,
these shares to be allotted share for share to existing
holders. The directors also want power to issue a
further 160,000 shares at par on any favorable opportunity.
By this arrangement it is thought the co. would be able
to pay small dividends, and raise further capital for
development when the money market takes a turn for the
better. These and other matters were considered at a
shareholders’ meeting held in London on the 30th ult.,
but what was done is not yet known this end^
Golden Ridge’s income for the half-year to
September 30 amounted to £17,862, and, after meeting
all claims, paying a Is. 6d. dividend, and placing £2OOO
on fixed deposit as a reserve fund, a balance of about
£3400 remained. Since then an additional profit of £2OlB
has been earned from ore treatment. During the half-
year 7561 tons were crushed for 42460 z., and of the ore
treated more than one-half came from development. The
manager states that it is extremely difficult to make an
accurate estimate of the reserves, owing to the variations
n the width, value, apd angle of dip of the reefs. How-
ever, as near as he can judge, there are 36,000 tons in
sight above the No. 3 level, of an average recoverable
value of 455. per ton, besides the prospective value of over
700 ft. in length of slightly poorer ore going underfoot at
the No. 3 level and not otherwise developed. On these
figures, the mine has a dividend value above that point
of about 245. per share.
*#■*{•#
Oroya-Brown Hills (W.A.) slumped 10s. on the
depressing announcement that an intrusion has been met
with in the rich shoot, and that values are cutting out.
Some months ago, 8., M. and Co., who boss this show,
stated that the present monthly output of £30,000 could
be maintained for two years, and possibly longer. Now
it looks as if this cannot be done. One cheering fact,
however, is that the shoot dies hard, and has an extra-
ordinary knack of beating the estimates.
Chamber of M:::es (W.A.) is alarmed because
the Government th. to frame a regulation to shake
up those cos. that make a pretence of working leases by
letting tributes in shallow ground. The usual plea about
such a regulation operating harshly in the case of cos.
that have spent all their money without getting any
return is put forward ; but seeing that the practice of
gammoning to work leases in the manner alluded to has
become a fine art in the West, it is time something was
done to stop it. No matter how stringent the proposed
regulation is made, the bona-fide co. can still have its
interests safeguarded, while sufficient power can be vested
in either the Minister or the Warden to bring the schemer
and the shuffler up with a round turn.
* * * *
Mararoa (W.A.) still shows a loss on the month’s
operations, but the lldwt. per ton of gold left in the
tailings, coupled with expenditure on new plant, accounts
for this. Good profits should be earned when a start is
made to treat the residues ; but when the whole reduc-
tion works are in full swing, it is almost certain the grade
will come down.
•* * * *
Golden Treasure, Yundamindera (W.A.), is
getting a little newspaper notice. A few weeks ago this
property, then known as the Maori Queen, was acquired
by a Melbourne syndicate, and hastily floated in that city.
Since then a 10-head mill has been ordered, and admiring
shareholders have been shown specimens, and told what
the previous owners took out of the mine. There is some
gold in the Yundamindera district, but unfortunately it
seems to give out in depth. At any rate, cos. like the
Potosi, which tried systematic and deep mining in the
locality, spent large sums of money, and finally went
bung. The Golden Treasure may prove the exception,
but it is safer to back rules than exceptions.
* * * . *
Cumberland (W.A.) turned out £15,671 worth
of gold for the half-year to September 30, but after allow-
ing for cash previously in hand, cost of production, and
earmarking £2OOO for dividend purposes, only £3243 re-
mained to be carried forward. Of this sum £l5OO has
been set aside as a reserve fund ; but this amount is not
enough, and no more profits should be paid away until
much larger provision is made for the future. The ore
reserves are given as 8000 tons, estimated to mill loz. per
ton. Seeing that this estimate is 2000 tons less than the
previous one, and that only 3942 tons have been extracted
in the interim, it is remarkable that the £4OOO odd spent
in development furnished so little return in the shape
of ore reserves.
* * * *
There is still a more or less bitter controversy
about the relative merits of Oroya-Black Range and its
neighbor, the Sandstone Development (W. A.). The latter,
at 180 ft. in its Juno shaft, lately got what it believes to
be the Black Range shoot of ore. The Black Range party
says that the find isn’t the Black Range shoot at all —that
the Juno shaft is several hundred feet north of the Black
Range workings. The Sandstone people haven’t had the
run of the Black Range mine; still, they 1 hink they know
enough about it, and have accurate enough plans, to
satisfy themselves that the Black Range has actually
worked the shoot further north than the Juno shaft. The
whole point is as to the flatness of the underlay. If this
is the Oroya-Black Range shoot that the .Juno shaft has
got (and the Sandstone people are satisfied it is), then
Oroya-Black Range can’t have a long life, though it may
have a merry one.
Hustlers’ Reef is, next to Virginia, the pride of
Bendigo city, now that the members of the Moon group
are in dignified seclusion. The termination of Hustlers’
No. 1 Co.’s tribute agreement by Minister McLeod played
right into the parent co.’s hands, for it meant giving back
to it the richest end of the claim. McLeod in principle
was right, but he needed a blind eye for the moment
over that tribute. Out of the 1327 ft. saddle the two
cos. knocked up £120,000 in divs., four-fifths going to
No. 1 holders. Work further south on the shoot has
proved that the gold makes again as the reef rises.
Hence the jump in co.’s shares. The promise of steady
returns, of course, helped. The co. has done a lot of
shaft sinking since the tribute fell in, and will soon be
crosscutting at 2100 ft. to reach the Great Extended
Hustlers shoot at that depth, so there is room for a
gamble over that.
• « • •
“ You are now in possession of a plant which in
our opinion will be able to treat between 450 and 500 tons
of stone per month ; and, as the stone is worth at least
7dwt. per ton, you will readily see that the mine will
(when the liability on the plant has been cleared off) soon
emerge from the call-paying on to the self-supporting and
ultimately dividend-paying stage.” This pretty story is
all about the Mt. View, Maldon (Vic.), which has passed
through a good many hands since the Lisle shoot
was cut and worked out. Maldon is so given to magni-
fying microscopic traces of gold that hardly anyone out-
side the district now swallows the estimates till the battery
speaks. That is the worst of Maldon. Long years of
punching “ the blue,” as the country rock is called, with-
out dividends, has not killed sweet hope in the bosom of
the old-timers. Even when the battery does speak, and
doesn’t tell the tale that was predicted, they can always
trace the missing gold in the tailings, whence unfortu-
nately it never is extracted up to the local estimate.
Mt. View may be an exception, but it has to be proved.
Anyway, after all the work done at the mine, it would be
foliy not to try the stone. That, however, could have
been done on a fair scale at one of the local batteries,
until it was made clear whether or not Mt. View is
another Mt. Tarrangower.
* * « ♦
Victorian Cornish, which brought Daylesford
(Vic.) out two years back, has retired to its corner. There
was more fiction talked over this show than over any
other mine Victoria has seen for years. Most of it was
talked in London, where, on the strength of gold
being got just when the co. was in a hole, people
were told that a second Bendigo had turned up.
The mine’s yield to date has been 24,0000 z.,
from 42,000 tons, or about £96,000 in cash. Most of that
came from one or two fortunate hits off the old
workings. The co. would have been wise to have fol-
lowed the gold down rather than to have undertaken a
big capital outlay in shaft-sinking and mining luxuries.
Latterly the stone has been unpayable, so money has
been wanted from J. Bull; but London is tied up with a
7 per cent, discount rate and a disorganised share market,
so there are no pennies to heave this way. Perhaps
Minister McLeod and Mitchell, two of the originals, might
help.
* * * *
Alas, poor Warrandyte! One show after
another has shut down, and now the Caledonia, which
began the boom, is reconstructing, so that calls can be
made. This happens, too, so soon after the letters that
the co. was greater than the Long Tunnel Extended,
with its million gold yield ! As the co. has turned out
over £40,000 worth of gold, and paid £ll,OOO in divs.,
there ought to be no need to reconstruct. But the
narrowness of the reef, the breaks, and the risk of the
gold making less in tight country at depth were never
thoroughly taken into account; otherwise shares would
not have been hustled to 505., and a bit more money
would have gone into reserve.
* * » *
O.K. copper mine (N.Q.) reports a profit of
£44,228 for the half-year. Apparently there isn’t ropm
for a subsequent announcement that the copper on hand
was over-valued, as the accounts were not issued till the
metal on hand at the end of the term had been finally
realised. But out of the £44,228 something like £lO,BOO
is written off to cover depreciation, and on account of
development previously charged to capital. The liquid
assets, exclusive of stores (coke, etc.), were £31,980;
including coke, etc., about £44,000. The weak point is
the quantity of ore actually blocked out ; this is put at
22,300 tons—say 2000 tons of copper ; and last half-year’s
costs were £44 12s. 6d. per ton. That is for production ;
marketing costs have to he added to that. The mine
has other ore bodies, but not yet sufficiently developed to
be included with the reserves.
* * » *
Some of the directors of South Gian mire and
Monkland, Gympie (Q.), seem to have got the hump
because prospecting the'western ground has been discon-
tinued for a time. The co. crushed 10.928 tons during
the half-year for £12,520 gold, and the few hundreds in
the till may slip out and leave this old concern on a lee
shore if there isn’t a Scotchman on the Board with a
knowledge of the value of saxpence—a coin that the co.
despised when the Monkland was paying out a quarter of
a million in dividends. There is probably a bright yellow
spot yet in the mine somewhere ; and, anyhow, it has a
manager named Jewell, who works the show to the best
advantage, when he is allowed to.
* * * *
Brisbane has been circulating a rumor that Mt.
Morgan will not exercise the option over Peak Downs ;
but no definite announcement has been made. There is
little doubt that the Peak Downs ore is poor; and
the lode is very small as well. The probabilities are that
Mt. Morgan will not find enough to justify it in working
the property. Yet, if Mt. Morgan rejects it as not good
enough for a flux quarry, the Peak Downs directors will
have a hard job to justify some of their recent state-
ments.
* * * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. &J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.’ 1 '
* *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
After conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
centration of the ores at the Broken Hill South mine, the
manager, Mr. Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
the Wilfley type of table, modified in the direction best
adapted to his particular local requirements. The great
advantage with this type of table is that it admits of so
many slight variations which adapt it to meet all classes
of pulverised ores. Provided the pulp for treatment is
graded it can be used to treat all varieties of ore from
slimes up to coarse grades. When treating slimes and
lightly mineralised ores, care must be taken to have the
slope of the table accurate, and a; fine, smooth dressing
surface beyond the feather edged diagonal termination of
the riffles. When treating coarsely ground ores or ores
heavily charged with mineral, as at the Broken Hill South,
the riffles or grooves can be carried further along the table
and in some instances right up to the concentrates dis-
charge end. Mr. Wainwright ordered six tables as an
experiment, with fewer riffles or grooves than customary,
and with some of them—the lower ones—carried to the
extreme end of the table. So successful has this type of
Wilfley table proved that he has ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
has been placing several of the patent Callow Screens at
Broken Hill and elsewhere. This ingenious and simple
mechanism has solved the problem of grading prior to
concentration.*
« » * *
The Irish Investor (London) writes regarding
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited in its
September, 1906, issue as follows: —“An intending
assurant who realises that the stability of a company
depends to an exceedingly great extent on its care in only
accepting risks that come under the heading of good
lives should feel every confidence in the Colonial Mutual
on this score.”*


Hotel
A ustra/ia
RATES FROM
15s. per Day
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
-HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
I. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh-st., Sydney.
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resch’s Limited, Agents,
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
ECCLESIASTICAL.
PIOUS O NE: “ Step inside, friend; you will find
therein the gift of Eternal Life”
W EARY ONE: “ If yon don’t mind, governor, I’d
much prefer the gift of thrippence.”
“ The Plebe ” : There’s one hush girl I
want to tell about. She is squat, and lacks waist.
She will stand by von in all your most lurid
drunks ; her arms will surround your neck on the
longest and dustiest of tracks ; scoffs and kicks
she takes in silence. Many an aching, swollen
head has sought solace on her bosom. She neither
swears nor affects blucher boots. And her name
is Matilda.
“Brad” : The discursiveness of the Celt.
One of him assailed me recently as follows :
“ Top o’ th’ marrnin’t’ yez. Hnd is there e’er a
chance of a job o’ fincih’ til’ day ? Or th’ morrer ?
Or th’day afther? Or this wake, or nixt wake,
at all, at all ? Oi dunno. Oi shpose no.” Then
he lit out without waiting for a reply.
* * * »
“ Quan ” : Magnetic Island, north of
Townsville (Q,), which was named by Cap-
tain Cook because of the deflections of the
magnetic needle observed when passing it
iii 1770, is not, and has not been for many
years, magnetic; It was still magnetic in
1821. In that year Captain King, who was in
charge of a surveying party in the Mermaid,
measured a base line on the shore opposite it fot
the purpose of triangulating the bay between it
and the mainland, and, in doing so, observed the
same phenomenon as had Cook,
» * * *
“Mallet”: To “ Perish’s” query, “Does
the boy get sick?” (Bulletin 12/9/’O7), can posi-
tively answer, from personal experience, that he
does not. The Australian-made stomach—what-
ever the importer may say or do to the contrary—
is not such shoddy that it cannot withstand the
simple assaults suggested. Remember a time,
some years ago, when coming into money—2s. fid.
—I sought a couple of bosom friends and sallied
forth in search of edible enjoyment. Our quest
led us to the Prahran (Melb.) market, and we
were at once attracted by a display of dis-
colored tins of condensed milk—salvage stock
from some wreck-—which were being re-
tailed at a penny per tin. We purchased
half-a-dozen, and sat on an empty stall and
demolished their contents. We then invested in
a twopenny ice-cream each, followed by two
plates of peas apiece. This left us with a shilling,
which we expended on ginger-beer, apples,
sheep’s-trotters, and sweets; and we finally went
home with that curious feeling of elation and
exquisite satisfaction that I now experience only
after my seventeenth beer. The only injurious
effects resultant were experienced when my dad
discovered the absence of the aforementioned
half-dollar. Being an only child, I was in the
unfortunate position—when questioned concern-
ing the coin—of George Washington : I couldn't
tell a lie.
* * * *
“ Paul Cupid ” ; Note that all the snake
charmers alluded to by “Abo.” scribes use an
antidote. But one amazing cuss of my acquaint-
ance doesn’t, for snakes simply won’t bite him.
Have seen him pick up all kinds of snakes in the
bush, and carry them home insid.e his shirt. At
any time while having a chat with him a couple
of snakes are liable to poke their heads put of
some part of his apparel and startle you. He has
never been bitten, and he doesn’t know (so he
says) how it is that the reptiles won’t bite him.
* * * X-
“ Nodrog ” : If it be, as “ Janor ” asserts
(B. 21/11/’O7), that a snake cannot get out of a
shaft deeper than its own length, will some
Aboriginaliar explain the process of elevation of a
4ft. snake to the wall plate of a building the walls
of which are 12ft. high and of galvanised iron ? In
the engine sheds on mining fields it’s a common
occurrence for young carpet snakes to be perched
on these plates, doubtless attracted by the constant
clank of machinery.
“The Batcher”: Re “ Batlow ” (B.
21/11/’O7). What’s this nonsense about snakes
and the. earth’s vibration? And what vibration
do rabbits cause on the earth, anyhow ? I live in
a mining centre, where blasting, thumping
engines, and a rumbling cracker, etc., day by day
is enough to wake the dead for 40 or 50 miles
around ; and yet within a radius of 15 yards from
the spot where the ground had been vibrating, 30
or 40 times during the last month snakes were
unearthed ; and the mountains around are alive
with them. The snake troubles little about his
environment, as long as the other necessaries for
existence are handy.
“Kangaroo”: Snakes, snake bites, their
antidotes, and lies, remind me —it was our annual
school picnic. The revellers were replete, peace-
ful, calm, when suddenly Bercival Hayseed
leaped in the air yelling “ I’m bitten with a snake !
Quick ! Quick ! I can feel the poison ! ” The
picnic surrounded the doomed man in a panic-
stricken state. Women turned pallid ; others
cried as they contemplated the youth’s short hold
of life. Hogan, the snake-bite specialist, hurried
up. Hogan located the bite, and with a rabbit
trapper’s knife, amputated an immense lump of
flesh. Then he vigorously sucked the wound.
Percy’s uncle took a hand, and sucked heartily
also. The schoolmaster rubbed salt in, the while
the bitten one yelped agonisedly. At last Per-
cival gained sufficient strength to walk a few paces.
He screamed, “Oh ! oh ! My God ! I’m bitten
again ! The snake is in my trousers ! ” The thing
was growing tiresome. Hogan was once more
called upon. As a preliminary, he decided to
evict the snake, and to that end made an aperture
in Percival’s pants, adjacent to the freshly-bitten
part. Forthwith an excitable red bulldog ant
looked wildly out at the bewildered picnickers. I
never saw an ant meet a quicker or more despised
death than this one did.
* * . ' * *
“ A. Zelwood ” : Morrissey, the queer little
Cockney, whose notoriety as a snake handler has
eclipsed Judkins’s, had a close call at Elaine
(Vic.), a few years ago. A snake was sighted not
far from the township, and Morrissey, who was at
the adjacent pub, was brought on the scene.
Without the slightest hesitation he picked up and
stuffed 3ft. fiin. of copperhead inside his shirt.
Having returned to the sound of the beer-pump,
he wound up a series of snake-charming feats by
trying to poke the reptile’s head in his mouth.
The snake evidently disliked Morrissey’s breath,
for, despite his efforts, the head would glide on
either side of the man’s face. Impatient and
angry, Morrissey at last caught the snake by the
middle of its body in his teeth and bit it. Quick
as a flash the poisonous fangs were sticking in his
lower lip. Pulling the snake off, and sobered at
once, Morrissey got one of the bystanders to
scratch the wound with a knife. Having rubbed
some of the antidote on the wound, and swallowed
some more, he betook himself to the stable with a
face swollen to twice its normal size. He was
asleep in a few minutes, and in less than two
hours he was back again kicking up a row for
beer. The Morrissey antidote is black in color,
and is suspected to contain fern-root extract,
while the Shires antidote, of which the secret
died with its discoverer, because Vic. Government
wouldn’t pay £lO,OOO for it, was as clear as water.
A bottle of the latter antidote may be still found
in a house not far from Morwell, Gippsland.
For constipation there is nothing quite so
nice as Chamberlain’s Tablets. They always pro-
duce a pleasant movement of the bowels, without
any disagreeable effect.*
THE MIXTURE.
Mixed bathing is fast becoming fashionable on our Northern rivers. —Queensland Paper.
“ Hepheestus” : At the Hawera (M.L.)
District High School, paddock accommodation is
provided for the horses ridden by the pupils.
Don’t know just how many humans attend the
institution, but the average daily attendance of
horses is 70. Can any Commonwealth school
show a record like that ?
* * * *'
“ J.G.” : Re Murray cod as a quick grower
(B. 21/11/’O7). Would like to ask “P. Winkle” if
those cod and perch they are fishing out of the.
half-dry dams at Restdown (Rochester) settle-
ment really arrived, by way of the Goulburn
channel. Didn’t they, as a fact, get into the
Restdown dams when the Campaspe rose last year ?
Murray cod and golden perch have, since that
flood, been found in dams miles further away from
the Campaspe than Restdown.
“ William N.” ; Re “D.T.” and the Aus-
tralian pitch. I have often known a bushman
pull up on the road and yarn sanely enough ; then
glance at the heavens, gather up the reins, stir his
gee into motion, and remark, as he moved off :
“ Oh, well, it looks like rain. I must be movin’.
S’long!” This when there is not a cloud in the
sky. The remark that it “ looks like rain” (when
it doesn’t) has often worried me. What is the
spirit that prompts it ? Is it quaint bush humor,
rank sarcasm, or pure foolishness?
* * * *
“ Edyson” : I came upon him in the Mel-
bourne Domain. He was small and grizzled, and
dried with wind and sun like a mummy ; but
the swag by his side was no mug’s bundle, the /
lay of it was the way of an expert, and I
knew him for one of the men who have walked
the earth. There was a curious light in his (I
eye, and he mumbled to himself. I moved
nearer, and spoke to him. “I’m lost!”
he said, speaking more to himself than me.
“Lost, lost, lost l Lost here in the centre
of the plain. No food ;no water. No
water for ten days. Lost! Lost!” “Non-
sense!” I said. “You’re all right.”
“ Lost! Lost! ”he mumbled. “ Lost in
the sandy plain. No water anywhere, j
Dyin’ of thirst.” He picked up his billy, I
and started scratching a message on
the bottom, where the word “Lost”
already appeared many times repeated.
“Water! Water !” he moaned. “Look
here, old man,” I said, impressively.
“That’s a water tap not a hundred
yards away, and down there you can
see the river.” He looked into my
face, and shook his head. “God pity
us,” he said, “you’re mad too!” I
drew the attention of the police to the
stranded swaggie, and now he keeps up
his quaint fantasy in an asylum yard.
“ Cecil P.” : Rc slang. Dean Raim
say, in his “Recollections,” refers to “let
on” (meaning “to tell” or “inform”) as
“a Scotticism that, in its land of origin, has
passed away.” And yet the expression is still
firmly embedded in the Australian vernacular.
* * ■* 4 *
“J.Gr.”: Agree with “F.R.H.” (B.
21/11/07). For street tree-planting the imported
trees such as elms, oaks, etc., are pestiferous.
Bendigo has some miles of streets planted with
elms, which latter are responsible for more im-
potent blasphemy among the local traders during
the autumn and winter months than the annual
sectarian disturbance. Tons of dead leaves
tumble into the open city drains at this time.
Also the said leaves rot and get into the house-roof
spouts, and cause trouble in about 2/r dozen other
ways. Would advance as infinitely preferable to
the elm, etc. (1) the Crimson-flowered Gum (eucal-
yptus fictfolia), (2) the Pink-flowered Gums (c.
leucoxylon rosea), (e. calophylla rosea), (3) the
Lemon-scented Gum (c. citriodora), or (4) the
well-known Sugar Gum (e. corynocalyx ) —all trees
that are unequalled anywhere in the world for
street-planting purposes.
One Tachinotus Ovatus lately created a
scare up North, and the ruffian’s doings will pro-
bably set learned scientists arguing one with
another. At Her vey Bay (Q.), 28 bags of oysters were
laid out at noon on an unprotected bank, and next
morning over 20 bags were missing. Then 1500
bags were laid out, and about 1000 bags were
lifted in the same inexplicable fashion. The
affair was mysterious; no oyster felt safe. The
police had no clue; no “suspicious strangers”
were seen at the local: pubs, and the bewildered
inhabitants were' just thinking of placing the
robberies in the list of unravelled Australian
crime-mysteries, when - unexpectedly someone
made a smart capture, the suspect being ...slain
while resisting arrest. The accused was oft. gin.
long ; was caught nosing around the oyster banks,
and dissection revealed the innards full of oysters
and shells. Verdict of guilty. A fish expert
classed the marauder as the snub-nosed swallow-
tail (Tachinotus Ovatus), which, according to the
books of reference, isn’t supposed to grow to more
than lOin. long. Apparently T.O. is a cantanker-
ous sort of thief on the Queensland coast, for
others of him have been seen sft. and 6ft. long.
LOVE’S TEST.
BILL: “ Straight, I loves yer, Liz. I’d do any-
thing for yer.”
LIZ (scornfully): “ Oh , chase yerself.”
“ Mohotra Re “ Petramos ” and Pants.
The problem set (B. 7/11/’O7) can only be satis-
factorily resolved by a vet. ’Tisn’t the Methody’s
knee-drill that knocks the pristine splendor off his
pants. Let “Petramos” look further than the
whiskered leg-gear ends, and observe that mighty
foot round which the trousers sweep and sway.
And then let him note the constant and violent
fashion in which the Methody “brushes” both
fetlock joints. Anything, barring steel-riveted
trouserings, would knock under to such treatment.
Chamberlain’s Tablets cost you nothing if
they do you no good. Your money back if not
satisfied.*
CHRISTMASSIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the wife is choppin’suet, and the gals is stonin’
plums,
An’ I'm settin’ in the corner, simply twirlin’ my thumbs ;
I can see amid the smoke rings from the old pipe’s ruddy
glow,
The dead and buried Christmas times of many years ago.
Though I’m gettin’ stiff an’ slow,
An’ my hair is white as snow,
I shook things up a-Ghristmassin’
A-many years ago.
Oh, I mind the trips to Sydney with old Bill (who’s
crossed the Rise),
When the cheques we got from shearin’ was a record for
their size ;
And the marble public houses, an’ the ladies in the bars,
With their hair like golden sov’rins an’ their eyes like
shinin’ stars.
(Little Maude and Flo.)
The pace it wasn’t slow
When Bill an’ I went Christmassin’
A-many years ago.
Oh, I mind the Randwick races, an’ the green an’ shaven
lawn,
An’ the ladies’ lovely faces that were fairer than the dawn,
An’ the strainin’, glossy thoroughbreds—Good Lord ! but
it was grand—
The thunder of their hoof-heats as they galloped past the
stand.
It makes my old heart glow
When I see the colors show
Of the horse we backed a-Christmassin’
A-many years ago.
But best of all the Christmasses—the night of Regan’s
ball—
When I kissed sweet Norah Regan ’neath the bushes in
the hall.
Oh, her eyes shone bright as diamon’s ’neath the glorv of
her hair ;
But ’tis streaked with bands of silver—for she’s sittin’
over there
Kneadin’eggs an’dough,
Bustlin’to and fro,
The girl I wooed a-Christmassin’
A-many years ago.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


ħ
ere: the sands
OF 1907 RUN, OUT
decide to improve your mental and finan-
cial position by entering upon a course
POSTAL INSTRUCTION
our skilled instructors. Our methods
ensure 'the"speedy acquirement of money-
•earning knowledge, and are not to be com-
pared with foreign stereotyped methods
which are unsuited to local conditions.
ftUftt NT.SS
gPiiCATiOW
TECHNIC At
EBVCATAQ fi
ittid lot ‘'HOME
Skerthand, Typewrit
keeping Csmmarelal
CorrssiKtndenM. Ptnm
fenrfine«*finA. Arfhitaetural and
Merhameal Brawina, etc.
STUBY," t»pp« Free on application
STOTT SettOARES
BUSINESS COLLEGE
.MOORS SYPWEY
MEN’S GIFTS!
GIFTS FOR MEN WE MEAN.
'T'HEY occasion much thought. They
A. won’t wear them when given. There
are so few things they will use. We know
all about men’s presents. We specialise on
them. See our Eastern window full of
them. In solid gold. In heavy silver. We
cull the world’s best for them. . Our prices
are the lowest in Australia. YVe sell only
good-class articles.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 HUNTER. STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES CASH.
Silver Sov. Boxes to
hold 5 sovs., 7/6.
Large size, 10/6.
9-ct. Gold, 44/-
15-ct. Gold, 94/-
Larger than shown.
Sterling Silver Tobacco Boxes,
lain—22'-, 25/-, 26/6, 35/-, 42/6.
Engraved—27/6, 35/-
(According to weight).
In Electroplate, 8/6.
“ Brad ” : Has anyone heard yet of gum-
leaf pipe-flavoring for chest coni plaints? Suffered
badly with my chest till I ran across an old
swaggie, who persuaded me to try eucalyptus
leaves with my whiff. The taste was a bit dis-
agreeable at first, but after a few smokes I grew
fond of it.- ::I woukln’t-recognise a bronchial
affection now if I' Saw one'.
“ Won Hi,’.’ (unashamedly).:—
“Jimmie Pannikin ” is wild over my few wellrinten-
tioned remarks concerning him. I’m surprised. If he’d
had the full dose'(Pour-fifths of my communication was
cutout by,some, n appreciative varlet in Thu Bulletin
office), he’d now oe pursuing nature studies in the richly-
flowering, boskyPa of Callan (N.S.W.).
“ Pannikin ” says ne writes his pars in the bush.. There s-
nothing to brag about in that. I write mine in a
Wesleyan church—mostly during service.
“ Jimmie ” says I’m a “ liar.” That is the truest item
he ever got into your pages—/ am /
“ Jimmie ” isn’t ', his brain is incapable of framing an
interesting lie. He’s a mere futile groper after men-
dacity.
“Jim’s’’:-passionate references to the three years he
spent on the 602 J Square acres in Darlinghurst, or where
ever it was, don’t cut any ice With me. There is no scope
for absorbing bush, lore in that environment, and well he
knows it.
IN A MELBOURNE DUST-STORM.
C ITIZEN: “ Some of the land about here is worth
£300 a foot."
COUNTRY VISITOR: “ Gosh! ’A’ you allow it t'
blow about like this."
“ Ham C. Much ink has been wasted
by “Abo.” and other liars over “ boshter,”
“ bonzerina, ” “ blitherer,” etc., but can any of the
many sons of Ananias give me the origin of the
frequently-used expression “No good to Gundy ” ?
A MIGHTY BLOW HARD.
MIKE: “ Bcgob, I’d like t' see th' bloke what blew that up, so I would!"
“Sallad” : Can anyone tell me why the
emu has its windpipe split? It isn't noticeable
in the live bird, but when the skin is removed
there is a distinct gash down the neck, about 3in.
long, and situated about a foot below the head.
“ Agricola’l: Prevented a mean crime
just at dusk a
few evenings
back. A nest
of meat or
gravel ants had,
like good union-
ists, knocked
off work at sun-
down, and had
gone below for
rest, leaving the
manna, which
they had been
collecting for
the past week,
gathered about
the nest. Scar-
cely had the
last worker dis-
appeared,
when, from no-
where in par-
ticular, came a
■crowd of red
sugar ants, who
swarmed noise-
lessly over the
nest. I watched
them carry
away a fair
amount; then I
scratched my
stick rapidly
over the nest.
Talk about the
“Johns” de-
stroying a
happy two-up
- school ! In less
than three
seconds, three
thousand of the
meat ants had
hurled them-
selves on deck,
and were deal-
ing it out to the
discomfited bur-
glars, who be-
gan to feel very
sorry for them-
selves. Most of them got away, thanks to a good
foot, but there were many that wouldn’t be on
hand to sign the time-sheet that night. I saw
dozens of them being hauled below for dissection.
This raiding happens every night in manna
country; and I wonder the meat ants haven’t
dropped to the game, and posted sentries.
**. * *
“Paul Cupid”: “R.S.R.’s” whistling
method of dealing with rowdy sleepers may be
all right, but I doubt it. Here’s a better, anyway.
Provide yourself when retiring with two pieces
of soap, each about the size of a blowfly, or anti-
Tariff grievance. The instant the nasal disturb-
ance begins, deposit a pellet in the face-crack,
which will gape in sympathy with the music.
The snoring will cease. Presently you’ll hear
other sounds. Heed them not; endeavor to for-
get they ever sullied your pure ears. In case of
failure you have your other piece of soap, but in
truth a second dose is seldom necessary. After
the first you’ll be sure to get to sleep before the
snorer. I claim for my patent the merit of
absolute physical safety. The subject never
thinks you had anything to do with the taste in
his mouth, but ascribes it to a visitation of the
Devil.
If you wish to get well, and stay well, to
enjoy your meals, and not feel dull and stupid
after eating, use Chamberlain’s Tablets, and your
wish will soon be realised.*
“The Batcher ” : “ Jaybell ” (B. 21/11/’Cb)
got a cartload of atrabilious nonsense off his chest
re the bush parson and horse. I can take “ Jay-
bell ” to .a parson who does a large amount of bush
work, and who owns good horses, and feeds them
well too. Same parson is a first-class ,rider and
busliman into the bargain. Also know a goodly
number of others of the same brand ; but happily
none of “Javbell’s” assortment. In spite of
dogmatic statements to the contrary, the bush
parson does a vast amount of good —though he
gets little credit for it.
* * * *
“Cict” : “Jaybell” (B. 21/11/07) terms
the bush parson’s moke “4s. 3d. worth of Zoo
tripe.” From which I deduce that J. Bell never
saw a sky-pilot’s prad. Have met parsons of all
creeds on the coast, the tablelands, and the great
plains of New South, and am open to wager
unlimited refreshers that ninety per cent, of them
possess horses well above medium quality. At
present visiting the small union temple in this
meagre settlement are parsons from Corowa,
Howlong, Albury, Walla Walla, and Culcairn, all
of whose quadrupeds are the envy of eight-tenths
of their disciples. These steeds are, as a rule, the
products of bazaars, concerts, dances, collections,
and wealthy cookies, and the gentle shepherd who
would flash an animal answering to J. Bell’s
account is dead, or else in the Starvation Army,
whose priests never yet steered aught but a fourth-
rate hack. Admit that the average bush mission-
ary rides like a parcel and drives poorly, but he
also does both long and furiously, and none,
barring the well-fed, well-bred equine he supports,
would endure it. Also the Lord’s representative
owns gloves, buggies, harness, etc., second to
none but his bishop’s.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Saw a number of
fat sheep eating out of garbage-tins at Barren
Jack to-day. Was informed by a bright yet
believable local man that the sheep acquired their
curious taste when natural feed was scarce. Now,
grass and herbage are plentiful, yet so keen
have the sheep become on meat-scraps, vege-
table refuse, and fruibskins that it is quite
common to see them go up the steep slopes above
the garbage-tins (which are all provided with
closely-fitting lids), and charge them full tilt. A
sheep’s head, travelling at 103 miles an hour—
which is the average pace achieved by sheep on
Barren Jack down-gradients—makes no mean tin-
opener.
“ The Prooshan ” : One of the liveliest
steeplechases I ever witnessed happened when my
two eager dogs tackled a koala, perched on my
back fence. I went to try and coax the innocent
away to a safe retreat; but, upon my approach, he
jumped down on to the younger dog’s back, and
stuck like glue. The dog danced and screwed and
yelled, but the bear sat as firm as if he was a part
of the dog. At last his mount made off in a bee-
line at top speed till a wire-fence cropped up in
the near future ; then, up went the ko. and oyer
went the dog, yelping. While the dog was getting
his wind, the bear mounted a tree.
NAMED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Johnston bought a motor car.
He meant to drive it near and far,
But everywhere his motor went—
Poor gent !
A fakement broke, a fixture bent.
It bolted with him down a hill.
The little boys it didn’t kill
It damaged in a curious way,
' . And aye,
The hapless, Johnston had to pay.
It ran into a country church,
And knocked the parson off his perch.
It dashed into a flock of sheep.
A heap
Were slain, and chops were cheap.
It jibbed, blew up; and overturned,
And John was broken, bashed, and burned.
The motor runs that.he could get,-
As yet,
Were rash excursions into debt.
And going out or coming back,
You’d drop on Johnston, bruised and black.
Stretched in the dust; with mind distraught,
He fought
Beneath his awful Juggernaut.
One morning, maddened by the strain,
He rushed his motor back again,
And through the big front window slid—
Hedid.
Which meant “ Per contra, 40 quid ! ”
“ Here take it back in Heaven’s name ! ”
He yelled, I’ni ruined, lost, and lame.
A motor ear ! Itis infamous !
You cuss,,.
This thing’s a blighted Blundkr-’bus !”
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile, character) will he taken of
fpinmunicatidns , insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Janor, H.F., Lex : Do not stir up the sewage
subject of Chow cooking further. It’s too awful. Having
been carefully through your depositions, The Bulletin
has become convinced that Nebuchadnezzar took to
vegetarianism as a result of stumbling Unexpectedly on a
Chow preparing dinner at one of the backblocks pubs of
the period... .T.K. : We always thought it was “Com-
pliments of the Season”— i.e., the good wishes of the
season. “ Complements of the Season ” would presum-
ably mean “ may you have everything to complete the
joy of the season.” It might be right. Certainly
it’s just as sensible as the other. Perhaps some
reader can trace up the phrase to its first use?....
W.C.H.: Thanks ; The Bulletin intends to keep pegging
away on the Defence question. (2) There is something in
what you say on that point, but you must remember that
this doesn’t pretend to be a polite paper ; it takes it all its
time to be earnest. Will remember what you wrote....
Elimbah : You don’t tell us how a man feels when he is
shot, which was the matter in question —only what two
men felt like who were going to be shot.... Faux : Too
dull. ..S.C. (Somerton): Two-hundred-line epic about
Barker’s unpleasant flat insects is unsuitable. It lacks
courtesy. Is this, for instance, a tactful query to put to
a well-meaning publican, who has just asked you to have
a drink?
Oh, why do people come here for you to pull their lugs
And send them off to sleep, to feed old Barker’s ?
Then they go home late at nights, and often have a smash
When Barker’s have got your blood, and you have got
their cash.
....M.E.M. (Blackwood): Only one comment possible on
your extremely fleet yarn re the daintily-shod married
lady, etc .—viz., Tut I tut! (reprovingly). Also Fie!
Try a religious publication,.. .R.C. (Manly): Nice
little story, but out of our line... .197 : Thanks for tip re
most useful religion for gaol purposes. Shall bear it in
mind if trouble happens along Weerona : Humorous,
but you need to condense, and then condense again....
Boronia : There is pathos about the case of your in-
ebriated female acquaintance who bore back the handle of
the shattered family beer-jug (in all innocence) to a thirsty
hub. of wife-beating proclivities. Fact is, the pathos of
the episode utterly swamps its humor .... Syd O. : Hardly
skilful enough Ekrub :No hope with that sort of
cheap, easy jingle... Goril: Struggle to turn Christmas
dinner into a poem simply resulted in a hash... .Vandal :
“ The B. is not worth worrying about.” All right; then
why worry ?.... J.F.D. : Afraid heavy polemics of that sort
wouldn’t do any practical good H.C.B. : “ Jhoax
rides a bumpy race, and is beaten at the half-way pub....
G. :No Value in that form. ..Tantrum: Too ragged.
,A.H. : Not .sharp enough Hard Luck : Try
constant hot fomentations for a while; but it
sounds as if the part were badly calloused.—
Leville : Like the vigor of it; but so many feet have been
over the Same ground,. ..Coal: (1) Very rarely; but if
we accept we pay. (2) Don’t know the Abo. name for
Newcastle. (Anybody oblige ?) (3) Off our beat....
H. (Gunning): In a word, Malone was frightened by
a gohanna. That’s much too unexciting. Try frightening
Malone with the Tariff, or the Busting of a Marriage Tie,
and you should make good : your writing’s not half bad.
... J.I. (Vic.): Your batch of anecdotes re Old John of
Numurkah constitute the most foolish collection this
paper has received in years.., .Vedette : One sentence
from you r defence of bush-expert. “J. Pannikin” assailed
and sorely wounded in a tender spot of late by the out-
rageous “ Won Hi ” : “ Why, you can almost smell the
gum-leaves when you come to his pars! ” That
should compensate Pannikin for much abuse....
M.H. (Vic.) : Can’t say as to your State ; he is not here
after an act of bankruptcy.... P.W.W. : Those clockwork
fans are obtainable at Messrs. Osborn and Jerdan’s, Sydney.
Rocke : None of the artists seem to get on to those
mining subjects properly... .S.V.F. : The Bulletin has
no such present intention... .Vedette :No thanks. That
proposal is still in the clouds... .P.E.B.F. :We are trying
to get a white page there Fuku.sa.wa Ichiziro : Please
send address toteditor The Lone Hand. .. .Seecasey : Sen-
timents fine ; but you haven’t got the ear for verse
Blackbo.v : Your yarn over-spiced. Even the hopeful
suggestion that the average religious-minded reader would
take the quoted phrase to be French for “ the horrors ”
failed to save it.
“Pick”: “ Yarrum ” has not conferred
upon dogkind any marked benefit by passing
along his tick remedies (B. 14/11/’O7). They are
known to everyone possessed of a canine in tick-
infested localities, and ; are about as ineffective as
the other 998 cures. The well-bred or highly-prized
dog usually succumbs. The mongrel, however, will
withstand an army of ticks. The reason is not,
as some think, that his inferior blood is not sus-
ceptible to the aristocratic tick’s poison, but
simply because no one cares whether he dies or
lives, and, therefore, no one fools around him
with cures. The remedy observed in my camp is
to put the disabled dog in a cool, damp place, and
leave him there till he walks away, or has to be
towed. A sun bath is always fatal.
“ H.W.M.” sees things :
.Tfkr'track was hot and dusty, the billy empty, and
Matilda-heavy, so John (my friend) and I reclined beneath
a tree to rest. A large, hairy monster appeared, snorting.
John, after hasty but minute...inspection, pronounced
same to .be a mad bull—a deadly enemy of man. Mad
bull arrived just in time to meet a large, pronounced
blank, John and I having scooted up the tree in fairish
order. Mad bull ate John’s straw hat, and appeared to
derive great comfort therefrom. Then he attacked my
beaver with a mighty bellow, and bored his horn into the
bowels thereof, and wore it that way, a useful shade for
one horn, one ear, and the upper part of the left eye.
Next he discovered, with pleased astonishment, John’s
gun leaning against tree, with the muzzle pointing up-
wards at the owner. John watched the plot unfold with
consternation. Mad bull advanced cautiously and licked
gun tenderly with tip of tongue, and jumped back to watch
developments. Gun took no notice—then mad bull butted
gun playfully in ribs. Gun still slept on. Then mad bull
attacked gun with appalling ferocity. Gun woke up in
great rage, and went off. John screamed affrightedly,
toppled off branch, and fell with sickening thud on to
mad bull. John, mad bull and sickening thud lit out
with surprising swiftness for the Great Unknown. Went
in search of John with dire forebodings at heart. Met.
charming young milkmaid of 60 summers milking mad
bull, the latter still wearing my beaver. Asked after
John. Milkmaid of 60 summers and more (plenty more)
flew off handle and went nineteen to the dozen, and then
was bereft of speech for a season. Left during season to
continue search for John. Found him camping under
shady tree number two, sleeping the calm and peaceful
sleep of the unrighteous, with a foolish smile on his face
and an empty lemonade bottle by his side, from which a
pleasant and robust odor came.


Be*t"Knows there
rto nrore chance of
v immediate- 'fr** sl*tT«n
into Heaven!
w CM fe )
K/e 1
The WCiglr-rof a<'gu«>«»+'
IS in of b
KCfcntion of If?e frey?*',
Si+€ ! ’ .
(*?)
'By tfic | , yOMI'C
Welcome 'f’o wjy
Cowrie v-
I s -Alderirjaw • - Ainh \lTcrooei ? TjnnK ifW ffefeV
c lAf'inth l©ts in
2”. 0 «lo : '• yVir* ! Ari'rrr sure tlJfcyVf “be niadr n7©re.
S Cn f > *^ rC 1 •*
in sWe Schools" ti'ToUTm* S a2kl
["to
"H*' Is si\% y/o y° l&©Ki*^
} »r?ls+%r ?
Powell a<^vocals
-fife oAfflnp ,v »to $«•
o\- B»'»+'is v l P°ys wl 70 Arc
Ooifc-fO ■fft
(Ca>k)
S’NoL y.
C'ty '
Al/.ghly blamed Adelaide
]l<ys Confr&cT~tb
su|*f>ly
\ irr Cbi»7A-
A Wise cUps or 7 \
\.
S V^VCK ®_ Corrjn/Grrces
io Yum uf> A doctors £>1(1. ‘
[Ch'ef-Jus'fice
(Aso
"Did ii ir7 Ifis .
Sleep, of course !
& P.> C OVl 7€ on If- ooo4 fof
’ €.!s€. .you ca,*i A Serve,
\<>
A LOOK AROUND MELBOURNE.


The Minister for Defence says he Will do everything in his power to
encourage rifle-shooting among women.
h
“I came to get a few holes bored in
my target, as I wish to preserve it at)
a souvenir. What will it cost ?"
Carpenter: “Well, you see, that de-
pends on how many rounds you want
to say you fired.”
On the Way to the Range.—Riflewoman : " Oh, goodness I
I wish you wouldn’t propose just before the match—
I mean the rifle-match—begins. It always affects my
nerves, and spoils my aim for the whole day.”
Young Rifle-person: "Well, Auntie I
have enlisted, and am off to the war'l ”
Auntie; “But, good Heavens 1 I can’t
think of allowing you to go unchap-
Wait » get my bonnet,
and I II go with you.”
Mr. G. H. Reid has
agreed to return £353
fees to the Myerson
estate.
This sketch (a shark
at the dentist’s; is more
or less allegorical.
Lawyer: "Well, boys,
I’m on strike, and
shall now have time
for a game. I want
a caddy to go round
with me.”
Caddy : •* We can’t.
We’re on strike our-
selves.”
•‘ The weight of Mr. liamlet’A out-
fit on his walking tour from Bris-
bane to Sydney was about I2ib.”
Polonius: "And with a larger tether
may he walk
Than may be given to you.”
—hawlet, Act /., Setae 111,
THE DUTY ON PHONOGRAPHS.
The tax on phonographs meets with the
hearty approval of our Husicai Critic,
who up to the time he went to live in
a quiet neighborhood, had no very pro-
nounced views on the tariff.
WOMAN, MUSIC, AND OTHER CHEERFUL THINGS.


The Oxford Hotel
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
THOSE AFFLICTED WITH SORE EYES,
Dimness of Sight,
Weak Eyes,
Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids,
HAVE YOU TRIED
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION.
The great Australian Remedy. This
marvellous preparation is an absolute
specific for Sandy Blight, and is now in
general use throughout Australasia as
THE NATIONAL EYE REMEDY.
Sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers throughout the Continent.
If not able to obtain locally s,nd a
postal note for 1/9 to the Sole Proprietors,
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
531 George Street, Sydney.
tseware of the man who has something
just as good 1 .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Sydney last week smiled as G. Reid
gave his assurance that he would separate him-
self shortly from £353 of big notes absorbed by
him in the Myerson case. Assignee Palmer is to
be congratulated on a nerve which could draw
teeth from a shark.
G. Reid is still a bit of a wag. After
having to part up some of the Big Notes he got
from the Myerson lady to the N.S.W. Official
Assignee, he went to the Methodist Young Men’s
Institute, and lectured on “Chivalrous Econo-
mics.”
Tom Bent recollected, the other day, that
he used to sing with Melba in the old Masonic
Hall. He does not say that he was put out for it,
and Melba is too generous to remind him.
William McMillan, who used to be N. S.
Wales’ Heaven-born financier, is likely to settle in
London for some time. The outlook of the
McArthur firm was lately much improved by
some important finaiicial readjustments.
Chief Justice Darley (N.S.W.) reached the
21st year of his service last week. Francis Forbes
had 14 years’ service; James Dowling, seven as
Chief and nine as puisne ; Alfred Stephen, 29 as
Chief and five and a-half as puisne ; James Martin,
13 years ; and J. E. Salomons, 12 days. Samuel
Way, of S. Aus., holds the Australian record,
with 31 years of service.
Miss Ruby Lindsay, fourth artist in the
Ci eswick family that produced Norman, has had
a remarkable series of successes in connection
with the Women’s Work Exhibition, Melbourne.
She secured the prize for a design for a diploma,
she took first prize for a poster, first prize for best
art exhibit in a special class, and has had several
other posters hung in the show, each of which
carries a fair financial reward.
Governor Chelmsford’s “tight place” in
Queensland constitutional history is not to .be
attributed to any exceptional ignorance. His
antecedents are superior to those of the old type
of Australian Governor, who “ put his foot in it ”
regularly without knowing where he was. He is
an M.A. of Oxford, a barrister, and has been a
London County Councillor. He is disposed to
plume himself on his intimate acquaintance with
constitutional practices. It’s probably a case
where full ignorance would have been safer than
partial knowledge.
A son and a grandson of Charles Dickens
found themselves facing one another across the
Bar table in a recent English larceny case.
Died at Kumara (M.L.), Solomon Maurice
Spiers, at the age of 76. He was a cousin of
B. L. Farjeon, novelist, and came out from Dublin
with him in ’65. Farjeon, however, didn’t take
kindly to “gold-rushing,” and soon got back to
Europe.
Florence Nightingale, who has just re-
ceived the Order'of Merit—the brand invented in
1902 by Edward to mark a maximum of two
dozen conspicuous Britons —was nearly per-
suaded many years ago to come and take the
management of Sydney hospitals. Parkes had
conceived a scheme for remodelling the institu-
tions. He communicated with Miss Nightingale,
with the result that that lady entered heartily
into the matter, and sent out organising
“sisters.” The system has been the Nightingale
system substantially since, but during one period
of the negotiations Miss Nightingale thought of
inaugurating the system in person.
An Australian Historical Society man
recently made the inexcusable blunder of saying
that Sir William Denison succeeded Sir George
Gippsin the Government of N. S. Wales, whereas
Sir Charles Fitzroy was the man. A Mr. Lees,
of Paddington, was in the guard which saw
Gipps off and received Fitzroy. Mr. Temple
Nathan also comes in with an interesting note
about the departure of Gipps in 1846: “ It was a
sad procession to Circular Quay. His only fault
was, I remember being told, that he was too good,
i.e., he wanted to save expenses, even to insisting
that letters should be written on half a sheet of
foolscap. This is all I remember of Sir George,
except that I believe he was very kind to my
father.” Said father was Isaac Nathan, the com-
poser of some of Byron’s Hebrew melodies, and a
personal friend of the poet.
An old Monaro (N.S.W.) pioneer has
passed out, aged 99. Patrick McCoy came
“ down by Kosciusko ” 71 years ago, and he and
his wife, who is over 80, were the first white
people married in that district of big white men.
From the “Letters of Queen Victoria”:—
I had a great horror of bishops, as a child, on account
of their ugly wigs and aprons.... I was brought up very
simply—never had a room to myself till I came to the
throne.
Then, including Balmoral and Buckingham
Palace, she had two thousand acres of bedroom for
her private use, and several hundred brass and
gold-canopied beds to lie in. Some civilised coun-
tries have no sense of proportion.
George A. Brown, an ex-Australian
preacher, who died at Lincoln (Eng.), recently,
was well known in Melbourne in the ’9o’s,
when he published a pamphlet, “The Christian
Socialist,” and tried out his theories in practice
by founding an unsuccessful Christian Socialists’
settlement on the Murray, in S.A. After the
burst of the land boom, Melbourne unemployed
selected him to co-operate with the Revs. Canon
Tucker and Dr. Strong in trying to set a village
settlement movement going. He founded the
Church of Auckland (M.L.).
Monaro runs the Hawkesbury close as a
land of long-livers. Patrick McCoy, who has just
gone under with 99 years to his credit, has a
widow, over 80, described as in flourishing health.
N.S.W. possesses a number of rural spots where
vital forces, though apparently stagnant, survive
for remarkably long terms. The longevity may
be partly due to stock, but it seems also to be
influenced by the reposeful character of the sur-
roundings. A Windsor scientist holds that old
age is contagious, and points in confirmation to
patriarchs there who go on living simply because
older patriarchs in the district will not die. “ I’ll
live as long as Jim,” said a Windsor nonagenarian
lately, “ see if I don’t.” At Bombala they wanted
to start a cemetery once, and waited for years for
a corpse. But no one would die. And finally a
corpse had to be imported to give God’s acre a start.
THE CHURCHES AND AMUSEMENTS.
At the annual meeting of the Church of England Association, last night, the committee’s report said that the Anglican Churches were being transformed into
ecclesiastical music-halls. Organ recitals, solo singing, tricky advertisements, and such like, were the-order of the day, while simple evangelical services were put in
the background. —Sydney Daily Paper Report.
The call.-boy.
Verger : “ Mr. Simpkins, sir. if you please, sir, It’s • When the wicked
Curate : •• O bother I Tell the vicar to give out another hymn. My
make-up’s not finished yet.”
A SUGGESTION IN COLORED CURATES. >
.. Dsarly belubbed brederen, here beglnaeth the two hunnerd an
thlrty-lebenth tfhaptcr ob de Book ob de Prophet Ezekiel... •
t\ PULPIT BEAUTY.
“ Whai, Julius Knight l Pooh I 1 tell you, my boy, he’s simply
not in It.”
ENGAGING A CURATE.
The Bishop (o/ the new order) : “ Yes, I think you should be a draw, what with
your natural countenance, your funny trousers, and the way you walk.
Still, you need to be more proficient in the art of racking-up.”
SEVERE COMPETITION.
Music-Hall Manager : The worst of you fellers is, you’re too d d
refined. Broaden out, for Heaven’s sake, or these churches'll
,be the ruin of us.”
PICKING yP TIPS.
Ist Uoii Comique : •* Hullo, Jorkins, wot are you doin’ in Church?”
2nd Lion Comique : “ O, pickin' up points.”
Ist Lion Comique : “ Same ’ere.”
Childers (Q.) has a policeman named John
Dunne. So have a lot of other places.
Bushman Frank Hann has returned from
another little jaunt. Last September, supported
by a party and a S.A. Government camel team,
he started from Oodnadatta (S.A.) to the Layer-
ton (W.A.) district on a prospecting expedition.
He had a rough trip, but got through with the
loss of a horse and a camel. He reports that the
yarn that a blackfellow recently brought lOOoz.
of gold into Jinjin (W.A.) is a “ snake,” that salt
lake Carey extends 100 miles farther north than
the maps allege, and that, although he found no
minerals, he is convinced there is gold beyond the
Laverton district.
“Maori Mac” on the man who the
other day left £150,000 to endow homes for
‘‘indigent gentlewomen” and their children,
and some more to endow other homes for plain
women and their kids :
Allan McLean was one of the Shepherd Kings of Canter-
bury. He was also a Scotsman, and a bachelor. With
his two brothers, 500 sheep, and some cattle, he arrived
at Christchurch from Sydney in 1852. He obtained
50,000 acres from the Government on lease, and began to
look around for more. Accompanied by a packhorse and
camp outfit, he explored the then unknown country of
North Otago. The examination was carried out with
Scottish thoroughness, and the result was wealth. The
explorer secured a lease of 400,000 acres in North Otago,
now known as the Laghmor Estate. Later the family
acquired further portions of the earth’s crust, and their
affluence became robust. Allan McLean lived a retired
life in Christchurch, occupying what is alleged to be the
largest dwelling-house in the Dominion. This edifice is to
become the home of the hard-up lydy and the clamorous
cheeild. A Board, comprising bishops and other effulgent
characters, will manage the affair.
Anyone in any part of the world who wishes to
take up land in Queensland should write to ex-Senator
the Hon. Wm. Guy Higgs, No. 35 Post Office Chambers,
Pitt Street, Sydney. Mr. Higgs has been authorised by
the Queensland ' Government to give information
absolutely free of charge.*
“F.”: Apropos Australian natives and
Acting-Governorships (B. 28/11/’O7). Edward
Macarthur, Acting-Governor of Victoria from the
death of Hotham, Dec. 31, 1855, to arrival of
Barkly, Dec. 26, 1856, was not an Australian
native ; he was born at Bath in 1789, and was
brought to Australia in the following year by his
father, John Macarthur, lieutenant in the 102nd
Regiment, and father of the wool industry of
Australia.
It has come at last. Josiah Symon has
come into collision with the courtly and cynical
Judge Gordon, and has taken second place.
Symon’s domination of the S. A. Bench has not
been a good thing for either party, and there is a
general feeling of relief now that Gordon has
said, “My forbearance will soon be exhausted.
Sit down, Mr. Symon”—and Symon has sat
clown. When Chief Justice Way once told him
to sit down, he replied quite pleasantly that
he was not going to sit down, and he didn’t. As
for the third Judge, Homburg, he would never
dream of telling Symon to sit down.
Petitioner Wallace, of the Melbourne
divorce story, is making his second appear-
ance in a cause celebre. Years ago—a dozen,
perhaps—he was a party in the combined
family effort to restrain papa “ Johnny ”, Wallace
from doing as he jolly well pleased with his
children’s money. The young Wallaces inherited
each a bulky fortune from their mother’s father
—the notorious “Tommy” Monaghan—who left
son-in-law Johnny the sole trusteeship of the
estate under stringent conditions as to investment.
Tyrannical Johnny—always up to his bull neck in
mining speculations—exceeded his powers. He
“ pooled ” his own estate with the Monaghan
estate, and played up the money in all directions.
The boys eventually got him under control, and
the shock of discovering that his authority had
departed from him was perhaps partly responsible
for his death. When the boys came of age, and
meekly desired the old man to furnish an account
of his stewardship, he replied by shaking a thick
walking stick at them. So it was said in Court.
“ Larry ” Finn, one of the institutions of
Broken Hill, died last week. Years ago he built
a hotel on a bush track, and the spot presently
turned itself into about the centre of Broken Hill;
so the beer-pump was kept busy. Yet he was
almost an anti-drink fanatic at times, and it is
pretty safe to say voted “No license” at last
elections. A man had to be fairly sober to get a
drink at Finn’s bars.
Count de Rossi, on whose widow’s account
a Select Committee was asked for in N.S.W.
Parliament, last week, was a man of chequered
fortune. His father, a soldier of no mean
achievements, was appointed Superintendent of
N.S.W. Police by the Earl of Bathurst, as,
though a Frenchman, he had taken service in the
British army, and followed the flag over
the battlefields of the period. It would
appear that he was disinherited for that
change of national faith, as the count
title was transferred to a younger brother. The
Australian Rossis lost touch with the French
branch of the family until about 10 years ago,
when it was found that, owing to want of a French
heir. Captain Rossi, eldest son of the Superin-
tendent, was entitled to the rank of fourth Count.
Captain Rossi, or from that time Comte De Rossi,
was appointed Registrar of the District Court
at Goulburn, with a salary of £3OO a year, and,
owing to a Parliamentary reduction of the salary
to £75, he entered on a career of grievance-mon-
gering, which he maintained till death. He
reckoned his losses on that account at £lO,OOO.
Government after Government got tired fighting
his claims, and at last (shabbily, some held)
squelched him by pleading the Statute of Limita-
tions. Then he ventilated land-claims against the
Goulburn branch of the Church of England, and
for many years kept the local Bishop in hot water.
Those who hate nasty medicines should try
Chamberlain’s Tablets. They are easy to tab;
and pleasant in effect.*
Australian Governors of to-day are on the
whole a scholastic lot. Northcote and Chelmsford
are Oxford Ms.A., Strickland Cambridge 8.A.,
and Le Hunte Cambridge M. A. The Sea-Dog
Governors, such as Rawson and Bedford, are also
moderately bookish. One of them seldom travels
without a stock of histories and Parliamentary
speeches, while another devours biographies with
insatiable appetite. In fact, Australian Governors,
like the rest of the world, are being educationally
levered up, and may be taken now as on a par
intellectually with the professional classes.
It is more than probable that the ‘ ‘ prophet ”
Te Whiti, who died at Parihaka, the other day,
was no better than he ought to have been. He
spent the better part of his life in prophesying a
Day of Reckoning, that hasn’t arrived yet, when
the pakeha should be driven from the country and
the Maori come again into his own. Te Whiti
was a great talker and a good bluffer. He made a
lot of mischief in the early ’Bo’s by setting on his
braves to pull down fences and uproot survey
pegs. When an expedition was organised to stop
his capers, he sat in front of his whare, surrounded
by his recumbent braves, and challenged Major
Tuke to walk over the bodies of his warriors and
arrest him. To the astonishment of the “prophet,”
the challenge was accepted. Tuke stepped as
carefully as possible, so as not to hurt Te Whiti’s
warriors, and captured his prisoner without firing
a shot! After getting out of gaol, Te Whiti and
the late Tohu resumed the-collection of a fund
from the Maoris to celebrate the Day of Reckoning,
now overdue. As in the case of ’Lijah Dowie,
there was trouble over money matters, and Te
Whiti and Tohu had such a row about “the fund”
that they neyer spoke again. When Parihaka
sobers up, after the mighty tangi, there will be a
vigorous hunt for the £26,000, or thereabouts,
which ought to be lying about the camp.
The Tourist will appear in Sydney at
Christmas as a monthly outing magazine. It is
to be edited by “Narranghi Boori.”
“Where to Look” (Isaac Pitman and
Sons, London, price, Is.) to hand, is a well-indexed
guide to the most important (about 300) year-
books and annuals, etc., in universal daily use,
including several trade and profession publica-
tions.
The p >rlt j s ] ler has no morbid sensitiveness
birth-stains. Says Modern Society (25/10/’07):
A relic preserved in it (viz., the private chapel at the
Ugbrooke home of Lady Clifford, of Ohudleigh) with
loving veneration is the head of one of Lord Clifford’s
ancestors, which was impaled on the top of Temple Bar.
HEREDITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Into thought we come, and find
Passions bred for us to rear,
Imps or elves of some old mind
Whose strange heritage we bear;
Fire and fuel, we but feed
Upon what is in the breed.
We are toned and tainted still
In a thousand ways, nor can
Fathom what is good or ill
Since the mystery began,
As we rear the imps and elves
Who are made out of ourselves.
And so into thought we spring,
As a lyre touched by those
Who have tuned each curious string
To the primal joys and woes ;
Brain and body, we but play
That which lives in their decay.
x.s.w.
R. CRAWFORD.


YANKEE
DOODLE
Is man’s Best
friend. It brig'btens
all that is best in
life—Work, Play, and
Good Fellowship.
PA
:
. ; J t ' " '
7
, -*■ :
7
■'
r "J
mm
A /v
<
%
L. -
A:
SI
w*
.
,
if
- - *v >:


CHERRY BRANDY
Made in
COPENHAGEN
Is the Best, and
Peter F, Heering's
13 THE BEST OF ALL
THERE.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN'S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.
99
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 3, 1907.
My Dear Arini,
Women’s Exhibition has closed in Melbourne
on a high, triumphal note. All doubts about its
success went to roost when the Cup week closed.
It could not compete with the races. Nothing
may except other races. Fifteen thousand
pounds are about the actual expenses of the Ex.
It is not generally known that Lady Northcote
largely financed the undertaking. Her Ex. deserves
the success it has won, and any odd crowns, and
arches, and twined laurels, as well as the flowers
that were showered on her when she left the
building at the close of the show.
A Sydney man, in his reply to the question,
“ What is she like ? ” described Mrs. Wallace, the
respondent in the Melbourne divorce case, as “A
superb spectacle.” A complete and significant
summing up of the rosy and golden lady, as she
was two years ago. And Mrs. Wallace was always
beautifully dressed. Which reminds me of a
bit in a delightful book (from theLocklev Library),
“ 2835 Mayfair. ” The heroine, a girl over whose
beauty and wit London raves, is damaged in a
motor car accident. When she is convalescent,
her fiance, an eminent K.C., says, in reply to her
entreaty to tell her of what he is thinking, “ I
was thinking that you’re not a really beautiful
woman—that you were not, even before
your accident, a beautiful woman.” “You
are perfectly right,” she. laughed. “I was
never beautiful. But the secret of being beautiful
is to behave as though you are. In England, if a
man thinks he is an architect or an actor, people
take him at his word. Perhaps we English
are so stupid that we think the man ought to know
best. As a matter of fact, I’m a very peculiar
type. If I were badly dressed I should be ugly.
When I am well dressed—as I shall be at our
wedding—l shall be beautiful.”
Only a month or two previously the K.C.’s old
clerk, in great trouble, showed his boss a photo-
graph of his daughter, who had mysteriously
vanished. The K.C. noted that she “ wore
spectacles, that her hair was done in an unbe-
coming way, and that her dress was clothing
rather than clothes, and he concluded that, as she
took no trouble with her hair and was photo-
graphed in spectacles, she regarded herself as un-
attractive. A girl who takes that view is almost
certain to be right.” And he thought it
didn’t matter how many of that kind of girl
vanished. Nobody ought to want her. Yet the
girl whom nobody ought to want, and the girl he
and every other man desired, proved to be identi-
cal. Sartor resarta (is that right, as applied to
the she-tailor, I wonder ?).
Doubling back to the Wallace case. Aren’t the
letters in the case almost incredibly vulgar and
silly ? The literary seasons of about two, three,
and four years ago blossomed thick with
love letters, written for publication—and pelf.
Divers known and unknown men and women
writers broke their hearts into their ink-stands,
and wrote around all the convolutions of passion
with a fluid that they fondly hoped the public
would mistake for good red blood. The public
bought the long letters for ready money, but
pretty well everyone save the Alices in Wonder-
land knew that the hearts were of chalk and
didn’t have any blood in them. Still the letters
they dictated were good imitations of the thing as
it might be—five-ply, and the pattern showing on
both sides, like a good carpet. And they were
not vulgar or puerile. Nowadays !—Well, I give
here a fair average sample :
Dear Old Silly Face, —Why didn’t your lumbering pre-
sence blot the landscape to-day, as promised ? I had to eat
my gum-leaf sandwich without you, and I do hate to see
good prog wasted. Fido buried your share. Really you
must know by now that all my affection not already
snavelled by Fido is yours to have and to hold—the whole
lot would quite fill your pipe—once. That fat Bouncie
girl was looking at your photograph to-day, and she re-
marked that you were good-looking—after the licensed
victualler build style—but that you hadn’t any brains,
and that if I married you we’d never be able to keep body
and soul and motor together. She must have sneaked
that last phrase out of a book. All the same, I wish you
wouldn’t let her find out things about you, such as your
not having any brains. Next time she turns her cross-cut
eyes on you, blow smoke in her face and say, what Mr.
Hopkinson said to the Duchess, “ Bunkidoodle.” Your
loving Lop Ear.
That, of course, is not a real document. But it’s
a type.
A tremendous tribute to one of the Ma State’s
young society men (noted in the Wallace case):
“I love you—anyone would love you.”
Petitioner Wallace, of the Melbourne Divorce
suit, is a youtig giant of six feet three, a great
sportsman. The Bona, an auxiliary schooner
craft of 80 tons, was built in Sydney for him
while the handsome brace were staying here.
A marriage of interest last week : Mrs. W. B.
Dailey to Mr.! J. Chester. He is good-looking,
employed by a shipping firm, and a junior officer
in the Garrison Artillery (militia).
Madame Amy Sherwin’s Town Hall concert, on
the 19th, js with the object mainly of presenting to
the Sydney public what is proclaimed by local
cognoscenti to be a new Voice. Miss' Ruby
Adams, one of Sydney’s prettiest girls, is the
owner thereof, and she will sing, amongst other
things, the Jewel Song aria from “Faust.”
For the Kite-Wolstenholme alliance, on Thurs-
day last, Bathurst woke up, rubbed a tired,
collective eye, and drove out to the quaint, old
historic Kelso Church. The newly-wedded pair
scrutinise the sea-waves down Pittwater way for a
while, and thereafter settle permanently at
Mount Tamar—which was once a McPhillamy
home.
The double wedding of the twin sisters Mitchell,
of Double Bay, with the grazier brothers
Connall, will take place at St. James’s Church
on the 7th, Rev. I. Carr-Smith performing
the ceremony.
Miss Sophie Lashmore, a pretty Newcastle girl
who was one of the Two Little Vagabonds in
Holloway’s Co., was married in September, at
Calcutta, to Mr. Reginald G. Leeson, an English-
man raised in hop-twined Kent.
An English paper describes with gorgeous detail
the marriage of Mr. George G. Garrick (only son
of the late Alfred Garrick) and Miss Joyce Reid,
only daughter of Mr. Russell Reid, of Yernon
Gardens, Brighton. Bridegroom’s parents were
former residents of Hunter’s Hill.
It must be the great percentage of moisture in
the air that is at the back of the suicide
outbreak in Sydney. Con over the list:
the King pair who died at the Metropole—
though there was no evidence to show that the
poor young wife desired to call “ curtain ” on life ;
the young bank clerk, Ball, a fine youngster, who
died deliberately three months after his wedding;
and young Horton, a rich Aucklander. Fancy
anyone deliberately putting six feet of clay and a
daisy-quilt between him and the sight of the
dawns and sunsets and gum forests.
Mr. Frederick George Waley, general manager
of the Bellambi Coal Company, has been thrust
high into the ken of the public through the
miniature case. He is a man with a taste
for books and pictures and bijouterie. He bought
a miniature, alleged to be that of Captain Cook by
a noted painter, and carrying the date 1788, for
£4O. Now someone says it’s a fraud, and three
men have been committed for trial.
It may yet be shown that Mr. Waley got what
lie paid for. But collectors generally would be
wise to only collect pictures of their own time,
and within their own knowledge. It’s the only
absolutely sure guard against fakes which, nowa-
days, are most ingenious. For instance, a
European dealer in fakes got an artist to do a
Vandyck for him. It was done effectively on old
canvas, given a rich antiquated look, and, of
course, signed. The faker, when he saw the
work, professed to be delighted. In a voice of
deep emotion he told the hack artist, “It is so
good, you ought to put your own name on
it and take the credit of the work.”
So the artist painted out the name of Vandyck,
and brushed in his own. The painting was sent
to America for the millionaire market, and there
went before it a warning to the Customs that a
genuine Vandyck was being smuggled into the
States as the work of an unknown, living man. If
the Customs knew where to look, they could find
the name of the Master under a coat of paint.
The Customs sought and found ; then they piled
on a terrific duty. That was cheerfully paid, for
the faker had now a full guarantee that it was a
“genuine” Vandyck, and a millionaire was
easily victimised. Subsequent confession by the
artist gave the show away.
“The Muffs” shortly stage “The Village
Priest ”at Sydney Palace. Mrs. Allan, who will
be remembered as Miss Chatteris of the Brough
Co., and Miss Jean Maclurcan will take part.
Mr. Fletcher, a distinguished Muff, will be the
Priest who says “Lord, Thy servant heareth”
with such profound piety when the mysterious
turning of the leaves of the Sacred Book occurs.
Talking of amateurs, that flaxen-headed young
baritone, Nield, has been married to Miss Con-
stance Dansie.
From the D.T. : “A ‘salon’has been formed
in connection with the Women’s Patriotic Club,
aiming at the intelligent discussion of suitable
topics. The inaugural meeting will be held next
Monday evening at the club, and the subject for
discussion will be, ‘ Should Women Work Outside
the Home?”’ I shall offer my valueless services
later in the reading of the three following papers :
“Why is a Piece of String ? ” “ Did Cain Marry
a Monkey?” and “Should Earthquakes, Tidal
Waves, and other Great Natural Forces be
Tolerated by Mankind ? ” The last would be
about as easily settled by discussion as the initial
subject the “ salon ” selected.
Sydney Operatic Society will produce the jolly
“Cloches de Corneville,” in aid of the Home for
Incurables, from the 14th to the 20th of December,
at the Criterion Theatre. Tenor Kenningham
will take the principal male rdle. Conductor
Asprey will see the piece through ; and Mrs.
W. H. Eyres, Mrs. Arthur Tighe, and Captain
Forsyth-Cheffins are the hon. secs. Dr. H. C.
Moxham, of Macquarie-street, will act as business
manager and hon. treasurer. Funds are needed
to complete the Home (at Ryde), and increase the
accommodation from twenty to that for fifty
patients.
A Sydney man has a capital idea to help that
most worthy institution, the Waitara Foundling
Home. And he is trying to make the idea catch-
ing. He asks the journalists, poets, painters, and
musicians of Sydney to help the good women
of Waitara who give home and care to the
“unwanted” infant. Writer, artist, and
music-maker are to give original contributions
of their various works and pomps. An
exhibition of exhibitable arts will then be
held, and a literary and musical catalogue
will enclose verse articles and stories. This cata-
logue the man with the idea thinks “ may well
aspire to the dignity of a high-class literary pro-
duction, well worthy the shilling of our citizens.”
At the close of the exhibition of contributed
work, an auction sale should bring a few
coins into the Foundling Home money box. The
Man with the Idea will not narrow contributions
to those under the heading of Fine Arts. He’ll
take a cheque ; and if the figures marked on it
are big enough to make you prop-eyed, the cheque
might be exhibited. Do you want to help ?
Address, “ D.G.,” care Waitara Foundling
Hospital.
Miss Harrie Ireland has been engaged by
Mr. Edwin Geach for the new company opening
in Newcastle. “A Modern Adventuress” is the
exhilarating title of the piece Miss Ireland will
worry and be worried by. Another of Bland
Holt’s stock—actor Maxwell—will play juvenile
lead.
A fresh injustice to Reggie and Gwen, who are
under the age of eighteen :
The Postmaster-General has issued a new regulation,
under which parents or guardians of persons under the
age of 18 years may give written directions to any post-
master as to the delivery of any postal articles addressed
to such minors. The new regulation deals with cases in
which young people receive letters contrary to the
wishes of their parents or guardians.
It is far too despotic an act of the P.M.G. to use
the post as a means of parental control—or
tyranny. “Dear Postmister, —My Mary Ann,
who is seventeen years and nine months come
next Xmas, is getting letters from young Beelze-
bub Smith. The spelling and grammar are most
objectionable. Be sure to send them to me in
future,” writes Mary Ann’s mother. Mary Ann
merely tells young Smith to send the letters to
the pastry cook’s round the corner. Parents and
postmasters notwithstanding, Gwen will contrive
to hear from Percival, and Mary Ann from young
Smith.
Massage nurses took most of the admiring eye
when, on Friday, the P. A. Hospital Directors’
guests assembled to view the new operating
theatres and a lot of other departments. The
rub-and-pat-you damsels wear pale-blue linen
frocks, turn-down collars, and elbow sleeves.
Their elbows are enough to make a man abject.
Softly-cushioned elbows are so rare. Heads of
ticks, cancers, plague germs and such like deer,
under microscopes, held receptions. One of the
visitors had the X-rays turned on her head, with
its splendid mane of hair. And the men on-
lookers gasped. They “wouldn’t have believed ”
that one head could carry so many hairpins.
Warren’s Featherbone methods got an artistic
exposition from Miss Mabel Lewis on a day last
week. Featherbone is made from turkey-bird
wing quills, and is the modern dress-boning
material. Such a smart group of Featherbone
girls the Expositioness got together. Their collars
—regular neck-corsets—their belts and sleeves and
underskirts were of the dignified stiffness that
the turkey stuff alone can give. Anthony Horderns
stock the new thing.
Several English papers are illustrating Miss
Rose Musgrove’s best frock in “ The Rest Cure ”
(silly name !). It is of pale wild-rose pink:—
The bodice is fashioned in the similitude of a deep
cape, slashed up all round and cut into sharp points
weighted with heavy pink silk cords and tassels. This is
outlined with trails of miniature rosebuds, worked out in
pink soutach6, while the front of the bodice is cut into
the similitude of a wide pouched panel, outlined on either
side with trails of rosebuds and leaves, and tucked into a
deep swathed belt of the palest myosotis blue satin. The
overskirt is fashioned in tunic form, and slashed up to
the waist at intervals over a plain underskirt, the seams
and border being likewise soutachb and cut into points
while it is hung all round with enormous tassels, and
furnished in front with a narrow front panel outlined
with embroidery.
_ Mrs. Izett, hon. sec. of the Child Study Asso-
ciation, appeals on behalf of a pathetic case. An
invalid, three years in bed, is in want of bedroom
linen and bedding to replace that which the long
illness has exhausted. The hon. sec. adds that
the articles need not be new. She will be pleased
to take worn things.
From my Brisbane correspondent:—
Lord Chelmsford, with the gentle Verney in tow,
arrived bright and early, on Saturday, at the England v.
Queensland match, and sat oblivious to aught else until
the stumps were drawn. The seats in the vice-regal
enclosure at the Brisbane Cricket Ground are hard, and
her Firmness, together with Miss Hart, Col. Foxton,
and Major Trevor, showed an evident anxiety for
the tea interval. The tea, when it did come, was
awful, likewise the lunch. The only circumstance more
remarkable than the lamentableness of the provender
was the keen interest taken in cricketer Braund. Why ?
Who shall say?
Government House has had a wedding. The bride,
Miss Lane, is a townswoman of Lady Chelmsford, and,
for eight long years has silently adored one Hone, cleric
and hereditary soul-salvager. The said Hone being
anchored immovably hereabouts, his lady-love thrust an
ivory satin and Brussels lace wedding garment into a
carpet bag, and proceeded Brisbanewards herself. The
knot was tied by the Archbishop, who misquoted Scripture
during the process. De Witt Batty and the two Hone
sisters filled the bill as assistants, and Lord Chelmsford
gave the lady away, while his wife, in a pastel blue con-
fection, and two small daughters, looked on, resting
after their labors of decorating the church. The service
over, Dr. Donaldson carried the entire party back to
Bishopsbourne, where quite an unecclesiastical breakfast
was served, and bride and groom retired to coo at the
Tweed Heads by the noon train.
By the way, our Archbishop will be on the wing a good
deal sooner than was expected. “ For private reasons ”
he leaves on the 16th to catch the Ortona at Adelaide.
Rev. Batty, the chaplain, jaunts too, and the New Guinea
Bishop, just out of the Dalby Sanatorium, takes a hand
on the clerical ribbons. Mrs. New Guinea was, you will
remember, a daughter of one of your Judges.
The handsome widow of Leonard Turner goes Frog-
ward with her chicks by the Ortona.
I hear that fortune has smiled broadlj' upon our own
soprano, and that Mrs. Wilson has been offered, and
accepted, engagements to sing in London and the pro-
vinces that will keep her going for the next 11 months.
Yours Affectionately, Akenehi.
Yic. Government Statist is finding it hard
to get cockies to give particulars of their grain-
crops yield. A small minority dreads the acquir-
ing of inside stable information on this matter by
the Income-Tax people. The majority holds
doggedly that such knowledge plays into the pre-
datory hands of wheat buyers. Main result of the
Government Statist ceasing to give estimates of
the amount of wheat in the country would be the
withholding from the growers at large of this
valuable knowledge. The wheat buyers would
make it their business to know, all the same,
through local agents. Latter could, and un-
doubtedly would, in that case, arbitrarily under-
or over-estimate crops, and force agriculturists to
accept payment on faked bases.
“ J.P.” 6n Outrages :
“ 10-2-4” is right. Oadogan, the scion of the ham-and-
beef family, and ’Erb Beauchamp, the chemist’s son, who
pose jointly as disguised aristocrats, are social pests and
frequent ones ; but there are others more offensive. Has
your correspondent encountered the horror who, being
possessed of a moderate education and an atrophied sense
of humor, pants to impress conversationally? William
Brown owns an office, spectacles, and a small private
income. William has never earned a bean in his office,
nor ever will; but the office buttresses his self-
respect in some vague fashion, and so he clings
to it. He is an earnest student of his morn-
ing paper. His views on any question the paper
handles are decisive, not to say blatant. In the matutinal
tram, and later in the office, Brown absorbs his paper
eagerly—his paper on the tariff, his paper on Lyne, his
paper on Sosh, on the cricketers, on anything. For the
rest of the day those views are the views of William
Brown. They belong to him. He retains them for in-
fliction on his acquaintances. One speaks unwarily of
Watson. Instanter comes from William a flow of plati-
tude that some sad leader-writer ground out the night
before, with his tongue in his cheek. But Brown is at
his shameless worst when he gets home, or to any place
where defenceless women are. The strains of purloined
comment then simply flow from him. With plantigrade
feet outspread and an authoritative manner, he proffers all
the awful wedges of thought he has accumulated during
the day, as though they had just occurred to him.
He is for the nonce a Mind, a thing to revere. Surely
the people who flaunt relatives they never had are
inoffensive beside these first cousins of theirs who play
the same sort of confidence business in regard to ideas.
“L.E.T.”: Be the big Melbourne fluff
shop that has opened itself in Adelaide. Par
(B. 21/11/’O7) might be read that its business keeps
going on Saturday nights ; as a matter of fact it
shuts up on Saturdays at the usual hour (1 p.m.),
but opens on Friday nights, and that is what is
worrying other firms and will probably drive them
to the same bad habit.
Yic. Justice Hodges’haste will presently get
someone into trouble. Only lately he left a
country jury considering a criminal case, and
caught the train to Melbourne, leaving the 12 to
come to a decision as best they could without his
assistance. The other day, in a Melbourne per-
jury case, he again left the Court before the sta-
tutory six hours were up, and, apparently
assuming a disagreement, fixed the bail for the
accused’s retrial. After he had left, the jury
found a verdict of acquittal, and His Hastiness
had to be sent for to discharge the accused.
“ Eastern ” : Acheen is the name of a place
which will hum mysteriously in the ear of every
Cosmopolitan journalist, and yet few will under-
stand what it signifies. I drop on an explanation
in the last file of the London Times. Acheen is
the ache-ing of the Dutch in the East. Bismarck
said, “The Dutch will bleed todeath in Sumatra.”
He meant that the reversion of the Dutch Colonies
would come to Germany—a matter of vital
concern to Australia. Acheen is a savage part of
Sumatra, a vast region, as unconquerable as
Arabia, which is said never to have been con-
quered. Acheen has its many thousands of
warriors, comparable to the Maoris, but
unquenchable by the forces at the Dutch command.
The Acheenese have been at war with the Dutch
all the time. It is chronic. They are inex-
pungable—with existing white for-,es there —like
the savages of Mallicolo, in the liew Hebrides.
Fighting them takes all the gilt edge off Dutch
Government profits in the East Indies.
Sydney Telegraph has been trying to get
up a mild Imperialist excitement by printing
some “Tales of the Mutiny,” as told by the old
soldiers who were exhibited at the Birthday
Review. The attempt has been a lamentable
failure for the very simple reason that the old
soldiers had nothing to tell. Here is a sample,
from an old Corporal of the Queen’s Bays, who
was at the Relief of Lucknow :
Asked for his story, he said :—“ I have not got one.”
“ You saw some exciting incidents ? ”
“ Not. one,” was the disconcerting reply. “ You see,”
he added, “ I was only 19 then, and a young fellow when
he goes into the field is too green to take notice.”
“ But there were hardships?”
“ Yes, but what does a boy of 19 care about hardships?
.... I have read lots of yarns, and I know most of the
men who told them. They are all exaggerations. I
expect they have told them so often that they believe
they are true.”
Which is no doubt the simple, unvarnished truth
about most war yarns. There is no time to note
the exciting incidents of war, and if the soldier
had time, his mind is too intent on listening for a
word of command, or watching the people who
are waiting to kill or be killed. And, after all,
why all this fuss about the second relief of
Lucknow ? The back of the mutiny was broken
by the capture of Delhi, and though there was a
great deal of hard fighting and harder marching
to be done till well into ’59, the real danger was
over by the end of September, ’57, when Delhi
was finally occupied after a fortnight of street
fighting.
The N.D.L. steamer Bremen, which is at
present in Sydney, was for a time on the Atlantic
run, and on Thursday last a number of people
were on board by invitation of the agents, Messrs.
Lohmann and Co., and Captain Yolger, to see a
demonstration of the “Telefunken” system of
wireless telegraphy. On the Atlantic liners the
passengers are kept in touch with the stations in
Germany, Britain, and the United States, and
stockbrokers travelling to and fro get their regu-
lar reports, and gamble uninterruptedly the whole
journey. A daily paper, giving a brief sum-
mary of the world’s news, is published, and
people can telegraph to their friends what
hour they will arrive, and so forth. On
one run from New York to Liverpool a grandson
of the man who drafted the Yankee Declaration
of Independence was on his way to England to
be married. He was a typical hustler, and two
days out developed toothache. He wirelessed a
dentist in Liverpool, making an appointment for
2.30 the afternoon the steamer was due in Liver-
pool, and received a reply as to how long it would
take to get the tooth stopped. Then he wire-
lessed the girl : “Marry you 3.30 p.m., Tuesday
—Love.” This sorb of thing is very entertaining,
and, occasionally, very handy ; but it destroys a
sea voyage of half its charm, that of getting right
away from everybody and all worry. The
man who gets his wife carefully shipped
off on a -boat fitted with wireless ma-
chinery is likely to have his good time
interrupted by messages : “ Be sure and feed the
canary. Aie you having dinner at home to-night?.
Reply immediately.” But about the Telefunken
system. It is very simple. The operator has his
electricity generated by mercury turbine dynamos,
and sends a stream of it out into the universe.
Then he breaks it up into dots and dashes, or long
and short waves chat make dots and dashes, by his
sending key. These waves are caught by the in-
struments that are tuned to the same pitch, and
the current rushing through relay batteries works
a Morse printer, which inks the message in dots
and dashes on a paper tape. What could be more
simple ?
Have you a girl friend away in the backblocks —
perhaps in Northern Queensland or out west of Bourlce ?
What gift do you think she would value higher than the
gift of a good complexion ? Why not send her a jar of
Valaze packed in its dainty, little porcelain jar;
it would make a dainty present, and one that
you can be sure would be very highly appre-
ciated? Where the climate is hot and trying
to the skin, Valaze must be used if me wishes to preserve
one’s youthful looks—it does no hurt to the most tender
skin, and purely by assisting Nature endows a woman
with the soft complexion of early girlhood. Any chemist
will sell you Valaze at 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. a jar. You can
either buy it from them and post it yourself, or if you send
us the price and 6d. extra for postage, we will post it to
any friend whose name and address you give us. Perhaps
you would like to add a set of Valaze Massage Rollers?
With these one has a full Beauty Outfit, and can employ
in her own home the exercises that complexion specialists
find make for the “face beautiful.” They cost Bs. 6d. each ;
small set, 12s. 6d. ; large set of two, 18s. 6d. ; and complete
set of three in case, 255. You can get these—and any
other Beauty Equipment you desire at any of the Valaze
Institutes : 274 Collins-street, Melbourne ; 158 Pitt-street,
Sydney ; or even at 9 Brandon-street, Wellington, away
in far New Zealand.*


y'
r <s
I Walk on our soft Para Rubber 1
' Heels. They have no equal '
for COMFORT, QUALITY, and
WEAR. 60,000 of these wonder*
ful wear-resisting- Heels are sold
in Australasia weekly—evidence
of their popularity. But you
ust specify “ DUNLOPS
Bffll
1 L BOOT STORES
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. Au. St.tm * Nt
DUNLOP
MINING
GOODS
£-
*
u-''
%
>-r.
Are now used by all the leading
mines In Australasia, and are
giving better results than did the
Imported article.
Our Suction and Air Hose, Rubber
and Batata Belting. Packings.
Valves, dc„ are unapproached for
Quality and Price. Tenders and
Samples Submitted-
Correspondence Invited.
THE. DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, PertK
Brisbane, and Ohrletohureh, NX
r£>
BJL
m
o
Jo:
/
'SOMETHING • &VITE -NE.W-
-“JTILLIJMPiL
2
WORLD
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 2, 1907.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Wimmen’s Ex. ended on Saturday, in a
blaze of glory. And now the public waits to hear
how much the monetary loss or profit upon
the scheme may be. To the astonishment
of critics in general, a profit is predicted,
although the whole affair has been an
argument against women being permitted a
say in their own advancement. With a leader
so stimulating as Lady Northcote, men would
have been galvanised into magnificent energy and
achievement. The ladies, instead, have squabbled
over precedence and prestige, and every other
thing that is trivial and unnecessary under such
circumstances. And little advantage has accrued
to the competitors even. No one is satisfied with
the awards in any section, and some irate females
talk of claiming compensation for damage done to
their pet antimacassars. So, beyond the adver-
tisement given to its ambitious promoters, and
some enterprising fancy-workers, who sold their
ware 3 at fancy prices, it may be said that the
women’s first big venture was their last huge
failure.
Socially, awful ructions have taken place. One
Dame won’t even glare on the same side of the
street as the Forrest Dame, and some of the
eatmittee look all round the Frank Madden lady
before they even see her, and there is a blissful lot
of sorting out to be done. Nobody’s so
glad of the Finish as the creche madames.
They so enthusiastically took up the promise
of helping week by week in turn —but
those hot ( ays and those squalling babes !
The nurses murmur that the babies were prac-
tically no trouble in comparison with the visitors.
Twenty or so would gather round and goo-goo one
poor defenceless baby. The youngster would
rub its nose on the pillow in sleepy protest; more
delighted gurgle and goo, and he would rise
up in his awakened wrath and bring the Exhibi-
tion down with his yells, and a nurse (who would
otherwise be looking after two or three or half-a-
dozen) would spend hours in the back-blocks of
the building pacifying the wrathful mite of
humanity.
Women’s Exhibition was overrun, its last
few days, with lithe, straight, self-confident
maidens, each with a natty rifle case across her
shoulder. They have cause for perkiness. In the
two days’ matches the target was not missed once,
and nearly a dozen shooters scored “possibles.”
A woman either shoots well, or not at all. She
either shrieks at the sight of a gun, or she is an
expert, with iron nerves unassailed by either
whisky or tobacco.
Tea scrambling was revived with the last week
of the Women’s Exhibition. The frilly eatmittee
rushed about wildly, waving dress-boxes, and clad
in working togs. The State Gov.’s lady Was to
be tea-ed. Hence the need for extra frill. Hence
also a tale. There are degrees of dressing-
rooms in the Exhibition (some are marked,
'"Ladies only—no tvaitresses allowed”) but the
chief one is a toney and select corner. It
was rushed by the Elect on Talbot-Tea day ;
but one of the classiest Gats got in first, and held
the fort solus with the irritating persistency of a
shipboard bathroom invader, whilst her feline
colleagues meowed dismally in their discomfiture.
Following the lead of one golden starchy dame of
rigid demeanor, the routed ones proceeded with
their band-boxes to the draughty shelter of some
tree for the lightning-change of frocking or,
perhaps, horror ! they were compelled co seek the
shelter of a waitresses’ dressing-room ! In which
cases they probably wept for their awful degrada-
tion.
The guest was presented with frozen roses.
Symbolical possibly. An iced bouquet seems as
inevitably appropriate for the Coldbottle dame as
a fatted calf, served up roasted and hot, at
another brand of welcome.
For the Wallace divorce the courtis crowded
each day by the prurient and the curious, who
find ample reward in tbe exhibits of letters. The
respondent, Mrs. Wallace, makes a dramatic
figure. Supported by one or two loyal partizans,
she sits, hour after hour, immobile, pallid, and
beautiful in a strange, chill fashion. Usually she
appeals to the (esthetic sensibilities of the jury in
trailing gowns of soft black, with a girlish hat of
mournful hue, which emphasises the honey-yellow
of her hair and shades the violet of her
haggard eyes very effectively. Charlie Wal-
lace, the petitioner, is wan and thin. Evi-
dently domestic upheavals don’t agree with the
Scotch temperament. Co-respondent Strong
bears up with every superficial indication of in-
nocence and insouciance. His attitude of moral
certainty doesn’t compromise the lady in the
least, and gives his friends new heart to ad vertise
his blamelessness and jolly good-fellowship. So
far half a score of popular names have been
dragged through the Divorce Court dust—to the
undisguised delight of a mob of men and women
who ordinarily make some pretence of mental
modesty and social esprit de corps.
Indeed, the blatant indecency of the well-dressed
folk who tight for admission to the court each day,
is the most unpleasant feature of a painful
case. To hear a horrid story of domestic
misery, and watch the demolition of some man
and woman’s self-respect and future prospects,
dozens of people, whom everybody knows, scram-
ble and push and squabble in the law-court’s cor-
ridors. In the court, barristers’ gowns are torn
and their wigs dislodged by women struggling to
get a good view of the unlucky principals in a
squalid play. And the same faces may be seen
hour after hour, intently watching, listening,
smiling, while their friends’ most intimate life
is being exposed and dissected by a flock of law-
yers. "Phew! The modern Divorce Court is
comparable only with the Neronian arena. It’s a
hideous exposition of sordid, mean immorality—
this vicarious enjoyment of other persons’ alleged
sins.
Cup-tired Melbourne is stirred muchly by its
long-looked-for divorce case. The affair seems
more suited- to the fashionable taste for its long
brewing. Fashionable Johnniedom is on the qui
viie. Will its name be mentioned or will it not ?
It is rapidly coming to be conceded that not to
have one’s name mentioned somehow in this con-
nection is to argue oneself unknown and a social
back-number.
Melba got her second house on Saturday night—
and got it hot and strong. Crowds who got badly
“left” at the first made a do-or-die rush for this,
and by the concert morning there was not a seat
to be bought or stolen. Folk paid their half-
guineas and more to sit on the narrow rim of an
organ seat to watch the dimpled back of the
Diva, and others wedged among the flowers
on the platform, and peered from behind trophies
as big as a house. One dainty lot of flowers looked
like the phantom ship in “The Flying Dutch-
man ” as an usher bore it jerkily along; it had a
water-lily “Nellie” in poster letters on a harp.
A hideous thing. “My goodness!” murmured
the Staring Eye, “ What it must have cost! ”
Funny things happened in the foreground at
the Melba warble. The amazing Bent, who must
be going demented with self-conceit, waddled up
to the platform when Melba was arranging her
“ floral tributes,” and gave her what appeared to
be a bundle of waterlilies, tied with a bit
of string, but which might have been a bundle of
asparagus or a cauliflower. Melba pinched his
giddy old paw in taking the bundle of mystery,
and bent down for some jocular remark. During
the interval, Bent waddled to the Talbottles and
made an elephantine attempt at polite conversa-
tion, after which he collided with Archbishop
Clarke (who was there on his gaiters), and Church
and State exchanged moral observations —on the
Wallace divorce case, perhaps.
Melbourne was an excitable place on Saturday
night. Melba’s crowd was wedging the streets
and blocking the traffic, the Women’s Ex. was
being wound up, and a section of commercial
Melbourne was blazing up to Heaven in a fiery
chariot. There was a stage fire, with quite a
swagger “house.” All the Melba crowd col-
lected at the 10.30 finish, and the Theatre push
arrived a little later, and risked the sparks in
its frillies. All male Melbourne arrived home
about breakfast time —“Helping at the fire, my
dearsh,” was the triumphant explanation.
To the crowd coming down uhe steps from
Melba’s warbling, the sparks seemed to be
flying right into the porch. Someone shouted
“Moffat’s.” There was a distinct thrill through
the packed wedge of shoulder and chiffon.
“Bargains!” murmured a small dame ecstatic-
ally. “ It’s the Exhibition ” ventured another
excitable voice, and there was a wild surge
and squirm. “Fire and the Exhibition” has
been a horrible bogey to women all through
the Show, and the “Brigade” has watched the
Big Barn like a cat with a mouse. There were
three incipient blazes in the Exhibition during
the six weeks. Ex-mayoress Pleasance was quite
a heroine in one scare. The engines rushed
past the tea-room annexe (the Pleasance lady was
on duty). There was a shout and a stampede.
The room was crowded, and Scare just clutched
the mass. Mrs. Pleasance worked up an Excelsior
voice, and called out that it was a practice for the
night’s “demonstration.” Then she grabbed the
waitresses, and threatened them softly with
instant death if they squealed ; and in the back-
ground the men conquered a real fire. Thus the
stampede was stopped.
Item in Collins-street parade daily is a dashing
dog-cart, with two smartly-frocked and veiled
dames and a jolly little youngster, Mamma Veil
with a tender, protecting, protesting arm round
boy, Sister Veil driving smartly. “ Will they
take my chee-ild from me?” the tableau seems to
say. It’s most effective. The child seems puzzled.
It doesn’t understand Mamma’s new and violent
interest.
The Wrixons’ party reclaimed State Parliament
House from its normal condition of utter dreari-
ness last week. Guests got tangled up in Exhi-
bition turnstiles, and motors had giddy times with
Exhibition barriers across avenues and such.
Wherefore quite a few tempers arrived with the
guests who had tried short-cuts.
In the Hall the folk sat and stewed the while they
awaited vice-regality. At long last the cool and
lengthy Governor folk sailed in, with a lofty
handshake for the President and a compre-
hensive bow to the House. A daily paper said
the Talbot lady wore “pink souples,” which
sounds so like tights. But, of course, she didn’t.
It was flesh color, certainly, but quite full and
chiffony.
After a while, an amazing thing happened.
The lights went out, and whilst the more youth-
ful clasped each other’s hands reassuringly, a
cinematograph started to whir and flicker. A
tender and romantic story-without-words started
at a brisk hand-gallop across the sheet, after
which (also briskly) the lights switched on and
showed some interesting, unrehearsed side-shows
in the corners. One pair of doves were fully old
enough to know better.
Corridor supper proved too elevating for one
notable guest. She was guided (quite early) to
the intricacies of the cloak rooms by obsequious
officials. “This is your cloak room, madame,”
they murmured, and left her. Then gaping
attendants rushed for her cloak and robed the
lady in its dusky depths, and comforted her until
her motor arrived.
At one of our big hotels lives a little society
matron who is envied for the spun gold of her
thatch, of which she is very proud; and so is
hubby. The other day at dinner he was enlarging
on the foolishness of women who buy curls, and
enthusing over the pleasure of watching his dainty
wife just “ throw ” her hair up in about five
minutes ; all this much to the irritation of a
fellow-diner, whose curls were obviously pur-
chased. Her revenge came next day. YVifie’s
maid was summarily dismissed for publicly claim-
ing a clump of golden curls that had been found
in the corridor, and now the wife glares coldly
when anyone mentions coiffure.
St. Kilda gave.the popular Booty maidens a
warm though regretful send-off. The Booty
parent bird is taking his chicks for a flutter
abroad. They stay in Sydney for a month, then
visit Canada, and finally England—England, ’Ome
and Booty.
Cards are out for a “Juvenile Rose Fancy
Dress Ball ” —organisers being Mrs. William
Green and daughter Florrie. It whirls —to the
aggrandisement of many deserving charities —on
December 9 next. The Misses Hyams give a
Bal Masque—also juvenile—on December 5.
The Mrs. Doctor Lavertine baby was christened
recently, and snared enough cheques to start a
solid banking account; also a sufficiency of
pawnable silver ware to stock an Aladdin’s cave.
Baby’s mother was a handsome Melbourne maiden
who married a gilded gunboat surgeon. She has
since been spending her time between Plymouth
and the vicinity of the warboat and the family
castle, in Emerald Isle. Wealthy bachelor Levers,
of Mt. Levers, and Miss Court-McSharry were
godparents to the new arrival—and a more likely-
to-be-useful brace no reasonable-minded kid could
demand.
All the State schools holidayed on Friday for a
final Exhibition fling, and, despite the heat,
demonstrated very energetically. The pupils fed
at the Schools Cookery annexe, and there, as is
youths’ wont, grew replete and altogether happy.
Mrs. Peters, who belongs to the clan of the
Grants, of Bowenville station (Q.), gave a tea-
party at the Paris, the other day, for Mrs. Will
Grant. The fair-haired charmer is considered the
glassy agate in far Brisbane. She made a centre
for other visiting Queenslanders while here—the
Chelmsfords and other considerables of the sort
being generally on hand.
Mr. and Mrs. ’Arry Rickards returned from
Europe on Monday. He promises an endless
pageant of great little people for his loving, pro-
fitable public. Mrs. ’Arry sports the most gor-
geous gowns, and many large new diamonds,
while she confides to her friends that she’s real
glad to be back in Australia. By the way, the
much-travelling husband talks of being back in
London by April.
Miss Mars Buckley went off to Bombay last
week, and the amiabie spinster will remain there
some time. Probably, having a well-developed
taste for erudition, she’ll return with a knowledge
of Parsee literature, and a repertoire of Brahmin
folk-music. Meantime, she leaves a gap in an in-
telligent circle.
During the tariff debates, tbe House of Repre-
sentatives has seen a lot of the Fatman’s wives
and daughters. The galleries are filled with dis-
approving dames, who used to pretend to a
national spirit. Under stress of the tariff propo-
sitions they have cast aside pretence, and stand
confessed as shameless amateur lobbyists. One
candid member tells that he and several other
prohibitionists have found life a misery of late.
A woman who before had no other significance
than as a pleasant hostess or a friend’s wife, now
is a subtle schemer who doesn’t scruple to propose
certain tariff amendments calculated to profit
some relative, while she hints engagingly at
incredible bribes.
Steve, of the Fairbairn brothers, put in a record
gorgeous sprint round his city carnival time. Now,
with the slack and re-action, he departs for Lon-
don and his Dalgety directorship. Brother
George and Mrs. George depart by the same
boat, but they brave the Indian heat for the set
purpose of collecting by force Mrs. Daughter-
Alison, Captain Balmain, and the marvel of a
grandchild who is to be brought home for select
exhibition.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Government House is closed for the season, and the
Governor and Lady Le Hunte have gone off to Marble Hill.
Miss Clowes and a few aides accompanied them, though this
State will soon be almost aideless. Captain Ryder, who
is to commit matrimony with Miss Angas by-and-bye,
leaves for Britain early in the year to join his regiment;
and Mr. Walter Stuart Baillie-Hamilton sails off to visit a
br 'ther, or a tiger, or something, in India.
This State has oome out of the Women’s Work Exhi-
bition with a surplus of over £3OO. At the Melbourne
Ex. we grabbed also a satisfactory number of honors.
Lady Northcote’s special prize went to the Crfeche ; and
Miss Goliy, a damsel who dwells on a small stray island
with a lighthouse on top of it and a gulf all around, has
been recommended a special for carving a bookcase
“ under adverse circumstances.” Also, we grasped seven
first prizes, 10 seconds, two silver medals, three specials,
two recommendations to mercy, and our School of Design
was patted on the back.
At the final meeting of the S. Australian committee,
last week, Lady Le Hunte cast many rhetorical flowers
upon Mrs. J. R. Anderson, the hon. sec., and, on behalf
of the committee, presented her with a neck-chain and
pendant, set with diamonds and amethysts.
Musical-Doctor Harold Davies, who trains up Adelaide’s
little Bach Society, manipulated a concert of unaccom-
panied part-songs, t’other evening, with fiddler Nora
Kyttin Thomas and pianist Elsie Hamilton to provide in-
strumental interjections. The Bach Society awards two
scholarships every year, and present holders, Miss Olive
Brown and Mr. Murray Barlow, dispensed solo melody
for the and exhibited a promising voice apiece.
The Butt pair had such houses in this musical village
that they have determined to drop in upon us on the way
back from the West, and warble a few more hundred
pounds’ worth of melody on December 10. ’Tis rumored,
by the way, that Clara has presented an old girl-chum in
this city with a glorious trousseau.
Yours affectionately, Johanna.
“ Whitepen ” : With reference to the re-
sponsibilities of bank clerks in Victoria (B.
21/11/’O7), we in N. S. Wales have the same bless-
ings. Though we pay into a fidelity fund for the
purpose of meeting defalcations, all shortages in
the cash have to be immediately paid in ; but any
surplus must go to surplus cash account. All bad
coins have to be replaced with good (you can do
anything you like with the bad ones). But our
worst trouble is the sweated sovereign. There
are hundreds of these in circulation now, and they
are increasing daily. I think they are the pro-
ducts of the plating batteries, and wily Ah Chow.
The latter cuts off the milling, and re-mills the
coin. As the face is not interfered with at all,
the only way to detect the fraud is by holding
several together between the thumb and finger,
when the small ones will fall through. While you
go through this performance the look on the
Chow’s face is a study in sublime innocence.
“A. Wood ” : Asked a boundary rider the
other day what he thought of an Aboriginalities
par. re horses that hid behind trees and had
strange devices to keep the bell from ringing.
“Yes,” said he, “ I guess that’s all true. I had
an old mare that it used to take me half a day to
find sometimes although she had a bell round
her neck. I found by her tracks that she used to
dodge me round a tree, and do it, too, without ring-
ing her bell. One day I tied the bell to her tail. I
reckoned the flies would make her ring it. I
haven’t seen the mare since.”
“ Coalopolis Nobody ever mentions any
horse-trams, except those of Adelaide. Yet Roe-
bourne, nine miles inland from Cossack, on the
North-Westralian coast, is also the proud pos-
sesser of a horse-tram. You ride in a glorified
dog-box ; that is, you ride in it if you catch it. I
missed it. Then I walked. The distance is given
as nine miles. I think it is nearer 90. It was 115
degrees in the shade. There was no shade. Half-
way was a shining lake. I was horribly thirsty.
I hastened across. How lovely to plunge my
scorched lips in the cool refreshing—ugh, salt !
Four miles more of sun-bake. Then Roebourne.
I managed to catch the tram back ; even riding in
a dog-box is better than walking in weather 115 in
the shade (no shade).


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
m
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you.
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
DENYERS' Emasculators
ħ
45/-
EACH,
For Castrating- Perfectly Horses, Bulls, etc.
Crushes before it cuts. Haemorrhage impossible.
DENYER BROTHERS,
281 George Street (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
and at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A suggestion by John Norton in N.S.W.
Assembly, that there should be a special income
tax exemption for large families, was ruled out of
order. But the Australian tendency is towards
legislation in that direction.
CLEVER.
FIRST MAN (in background): “Everybody says he
has an exquisite sense of humor."
SECOND DO. : “Fes. He makes a point of laugh-
ing at everybody’s poor jokes.”
Another result of the, accursed: Deakin r
Lyne duty schedule is, to, hand from Yarra,
Junction (Vic.)- There works have been opened;
for the distillation of wood and the conversion, of
acetic acid into acetone—an essential element in
the composition of smokeless powder. One; effect,
will be the distribution of £IOOO a month ,in wages
among the tariff-stricken workers.
Philp’s Cabinet—which couldn’t even get
Supply from Parliament—has been already named
“The Queen-street Ministry”; and, that, of
course, will naturally become “ The Queer-street
Ministry.”
The late Kidston Government was dis-
tinctly representative of the different geographi-
cal divisions. Kidston (centre), Bell and O’Sulli-
van (Darling Downs), Blair (Moreton), Airey
(North), Kerr(West), and Hawthorne (metropolis).
The Chelmsford Government is all metropolis
except for Philp.
The frantic efforts of the Brisbane dailies
—Mail, Telegraph, Observer and Courier —to
tempt the Downs members to desert Kidston’s
standard, resulted in the apostacy of one only,
and he only half apostasised, being now an
“ Independent.” If four mighty daily papers can
only make half a convert, how many votes can
they influence with the electors ?
Tolerably certain that when Kidston
makes his next attempt to shake up the House of
Hinderers he will not consult the Governor, but
go straight over his head to the Colonial Office, as
Ballance once did in Maoriland with complete
success.
Brisbane dailies—to serve party ends, of
course—persist in alleging that ex-Premier Kid-
ston resigned because he “ couldn’t carry on the
business of the country.” Rubbish! Kidston
had a solid majority behind him in the elected
Chamber, and was never once defeated during the
session. He resigned because the Governor
accepted the advice of the leader of a minority in
Opposition, while refusing to follow the advice of
the leader of the House.
Bath, of the Labor party, carried an in-
teresting amendment through the Westralian
Assembly, the other day, in the teeth of the
Government—an amendment providing that for
every child he has, a man shall be free from
income-tax to the extent of an extra £lO of
income.
The Commonwealth is advantaged by its
nationalist and strongly white-Australian Govern-
ment, not in legislation merely, but in administra-
tion. Thus S. Mauger jumped very firmly last
week on the amazing S. A us. Deputy-P.M.G
who accepted through the State Board a tender
for Chinese-made helmets. Mauger’s action
shocked the local Freetraders and upholders of
the cause of the colored brother ; but Australia at
large judged it good.
Cabled that the number of returned
steerage passengers to the Cold Country from the
TJ.S. and Canada recently established a record.
I his is Australia’s cue to hitch up its pants firmly,'
and aggressively poke its chin into the business!
Hitherto, the mild statement of its claims has
been drowned in the Dominion’s roar over the
blissful advantages of a seven months’ rigorous
winter, and the enthusiastic whoop of the
Pacific Railway Cos., which had a continent of ice-
caked acreage to get off its chest. Now, let us
roar a little, with the new tariff as a text.
When cash registers and computing scales
came on for discussion in the tariff struggle, Tariff
Bill Lyne made a mistake. Asked were
cash registers made in Australia, he said
they were not. Therein he erred. They
are made in Pitt-street, Sydney. At the
present time the man who is making
Australian cash registers is also making
a tobacco-cutter of unique and Australian
design ; and, given a decent duty, will
proceed to employ more hands, and make
computing scales also. Further, The
Bulletin has it on very good authority
that, had the duty remained high, the
great American firm which has now
practically a monopoly of the world’s
supply ot cash registers was going to
open a factory in Australia. With the ridi-
culous 10 per cent, duty that has been im-
> posed, the firm will continue to make its re-
gisters in the United States.
Australian naval station is to give Esk-
bank (N.S.W.) iron and steel a trial for the
requirements of the warships. It is becoming a
gradually established fact that Australia can
make things, and is quite a civilised place.
Keir Hartlie claims attention on reaching:
Australian shores by explaining that be is here
in search of health and information. He will not
address any public meetings, considering that it would be
presumptuous for him to discuss Australian political
questions; but he will learn as much as possible.
That’s quite, a different man to> the one we' ex-
pected; to meet, and Hardie can hope to have a
generous welcome if he does manage to keep from
treading in the same silly path as Ramsay Mac-
donald, Ben TiWett, Tom. Mann, and Cos.
Wilks,, the. Freetrade-Protectionist, is
coming on. During the debate on traction
engines, Boynton, of S. A., arose with tears in his
voice to, plead for free traction engines, in the
interests, of “ the poor struggling settlers, who
had, occasionally to.live on boiled wheat.” Wilks
arose, with, scorn,, and sarcastically pleaded for the
poor, “the poor who bought traction engines at
£4ooior £SOO a, piece.” And the poor struggling
settler will either, have to buy Australian-made
traction, engines,or pay the duty on foreign ones.
Smp-U wonflpr that the Victorian clerk is
growing restless, and requesting to. be brought
undpr; the. wing of the New Protection, or any
other Protection,. M.L.A. Evans,, replying to an
attack by Melville on factory legislation, quoted
instances of a city firm, which paid a female
ledger-keeper 7s, 6d. per week, another which
paid, an invoice cler k 15s, and; a ledger-keeper 255.,
andkO clerks’ salaries, that ranged from 10s. to 225.
6d, per week. Another drapery firm was men-
tioned that paid froirr a, minimum: of 7s. 6d. to a
rxqiximprn of 12s. 6d, per week of 65 hours, with
extra, work on, Sundays for which no extra re-
mpneration, waggiven. Asa rule, when a demo-
cratic member makes startling statements he is
howled;at to mention the names ; but in this case
none off the sweaters’ representatives wanted to
know the names.
One of Premier Bent’s latest legislative
chickens will come home to roost presently. His
grovelsome eave-in to the demand of the Bible-in-
schools faddists, who won’t realise that they were
killed dead in 1903, is likely to he rejected in the
Assembly, and is sure of being fired out by
the Fat Landlords. And all Thomas will gain by
his weakness will be a loss of some of the little
prestige he has left, and the certainty of further
pestering by people who want to force the State
teachers to do the work they themselves should do.
HALF-AND-HALF.
BILGER (at a King's Birthday celebration): “Gentle-
men (hie) ‘ The Quink!’”
TheS. Aus. Farmers and Producers’ Union
was authoritatively informed by the local National
Ass'the other day—“ Every time they bought a
locally-made article they were hindering them-
selves.” Certainly. Flour, for instance. That
would make a fine motto for the S. Australian
alleged wheat-growers’ union—“ Support Free-
trade and use Manitoba Flour.”
“More Protection for Melbourne,” Syd-
ney D.T. squealed in a headline the other day. It
was over the duty on horseshoe nails. Then it
transpired that there was only one Australian
factory—established in Victoria under the old
effective State tariff—and, having got a start, this
factory didn’t want any more Protection. With
more Protection, the Melbourne factory saw the
prospect of other factories starting in Sydney.
Yet the wretched, mischief-making Sydney rag
had the impudence to call it “more Protec-
tion for Melbourne.”
The crisis in U.S.A. suggests again the
correctness of Ricardo’s theory of crises—that
they are due to production passing consumption.
Stacks of produced goods thus accumulate ; they
are for a while a basis of credit, as banks, etc.,
will advance money on them ; then comes a hint
of uneasiness ; credit totters ; the stored-up goods
are found not to be quickly realisable; and a
crisis ensues. The remedy is rather an increase
of consumption than a decrease of production.
For wages to advance rapidly with the growth of
prosperity provides an element of stability and an
insurance against crises.
Wade’s backdown in the income-ta,x
remission business is a bad augury for the fate of
Law Reform and Greater Sydney and Newcastle.
The new Premier was said to be somewhat keen
on law reform when he first became A.-G., but his
zeal only manifested itself in the bright idea of
copying the British Judicature system. He
has apparently smothered this in the cradle, and
we hear no more rumors of law reform. Here is
a field in which some sweeping work could be
done ; and the first step would be a readjustment
of appeal work and conditions generally in view of
the Federal Judicature machinery. The public is
asking why a litigant cannot go straight from a
Jury Court or a chamber Judge to a the High
Court, without having to make a circuitous journey
via the N.S.W. Supreme Court, and secure a
judgment which is generally over-ruled by the
High Court later-on. If all the appeal work were
passed on to the High Court, the N.S.W. Judge
could sit fairly continuously in jury causes and
circuits, so that the doors of all branches of the
Temple of Justice would be open all the year
round, instead of, as now, being closed for months,
intensifying the evil of the law’s delay.
In the German city of Leipzig there is
published a piano-makers’ trade newspaper,
Zeitschrift fur Instkumentenbau. In its issue
of October 11, 1907, it was announced that the
Association of German Piano Makers was to hold
a meeting on October 19 to discuss the increase
in the Australian duties on pianos. The council
of the association was to be instructed to demand
that the Imperial Government should take ener-
getic steps through the Consul-General to get the
duty reduced. It was mentioned that Australia
had only one piano manufactory, and it was stated,
on the authority of Australian papers, that the
pianos it turned out were rubbish. Foreign
musicians who had given the pianos excellent
testimonials were attacked in their private and
public characters, and charged with having sold
testimonials. The Australian legislators who
were likely to support the increased duties were
declared to be shareholders, and corrupt. Follow-
ing this, there was held in Melbourne a meeting
of piano importers, the chief business of which
was the raising of a fighting fund to contest the
new duties. Was there any connection between
that meeting in Melbourne and the other one in
Leipzig of October 19, and is German money
being subscribed for a lobby campaign against
Australian industry ?
When you want a pleasant physic, try
'Chamberlain’s. They are easy to take, and pro-
duce no griping or other unpleasant effect.*
From Messrs. Angus and Coote, the well-known
jewellers of 492 George-street, Sydney, we have received
a copy of their Christmas catalogue. This is issued to
assist out-of-town residents in the selection of suitable
presents for the season. It is a very complete list
for the purpose, and contains about 800 illustra-
tions clearly described and priced. Messrs. Angus
and Coote claim to do the largest postal business
of its kind in Australia, and their wonderful
growth during the last few years is testimony
to the considerate treatment they extend to their
customers. A great feature of the business is that in
every case where the article fails to come up to the
customer’s expectations, the money will be refunded if the
goods are returned. The “A. & 0.” Christmas catalogue
is indeed well worthy of perusal, especially to those who
realise the desirability of jewellery and plate for presenta-
tion purposes.*
Cigar-boxes, said to be equal, if not
superior, to the imported article hitherto used hy
Australian cigar manufacturers, are now being
made by a Townsville (Q.) firm. Odd ends of
cedar are largely used for the purpose.
Party Government got another fine advt.
in the N.S.W. Parliament last week. David
Storey was growling about the Government’s
income-tax proposals, when Wade rushed into the
Chamber to say that he “ wanted loyal support—
that was all,” and Storey ‘‘didn’t give it.”
Wherefore (as Wade’s colleague, Wood, then
fiercely told him) he could take his support else-
where. In short, Wade and Wood and Waddle
don’t want members with any opinions of their own;
they want lay figures that will move when the
showman pulls the string. It’s a fine ideal for a
“Liberal and Reform ” caucus-hating party.
The British Weekly prints (9/10/’O7)
what it terms “ two important letters from a pair
of eminent Australians ” —Rev. W. H. Beale, ex-
President of the N.S.W. Methodist Conference ;
and J. E. Carruthers, also a Rev., and brother
of Joseph Carruthers. Australia’s statesmen are,
in the Rev. Beale’s eyes, grasping, sordid persons,
bent on bringing about the “ lowering of wages in
England, and the raising of the price of bread
and clothing there.” At the back of the above
is a sinister and selfish motive. An open door is
to be kept for “Australian stuff,” which will be
enabled thus “to go in and grab the artificially-
raised prices.’’ British workmen are barred out
from the Commonwealth, contemned, treated as
helots and undesirables. All local talk concerning
preference is (according to Rev. Carruthers) hypo-
crisy, “a cunning juggling with terms.” Deakin’s
preference proposals (those same proposals which
British papers calculated a month ago were to
make a difference of £1,250,000 per annum in favor
of British industries) are “selfish and one-sided.”
The prosperity of the Commonwealth is to be
“ attained at the cost of the toiling millions of the
mother country.” A fine pair of Stinking Fishites !
Thos. Bent, writhing, as sinuously as a
man of his globular proportions can writhe, under
the lash of newspaper criticism, talks splenetically
of a measure compelling press writers to sign their
articles. “When you see who these fellows are
that write about us,” says Bent. “ you won’t give
a button for their opinions.” This sagacious idea
satisfies Bent that it is only necessary to
have signed articles in order to render null
and void all press criticism of a blunder-
buss Government. In such circumstances,
T. Bent could be a large, shapeless politician
wallowing contentedly in the bog of error, careless
of all written criticism. Tommy does not under-
stand that the name continually associated with
trenchant articles would presently be invested
with more power and dignity than the impersonal
“ We” that now staggers his complacency. What
is more, individual pressmen of ability, having
associated themselves with a crusade against a fat
mistake like Bent, would, for their credit’s sake,
and in the spirit of personal combat, be impelled
to push it with more vigor and vehemence than
they now do when sinking individual feeling in the
editorial “we.” There’s a lot to be said against
the signed article; but in that lot there is no justi-
fication for alleging that it would act as a means
of restraint.
The Hon. Wm. Guy Higgs (formerly
Alderman of the Brisbane City Council, Member
of the Legislative Assembly of Queensland,
Chairman of Committees and Deputy President
of the Commonwealth Senate, Deputy Chairman
of the Royal Commission on the Commonwealth
tariff) begs to announce that he has commenced
business in Sydney, as an auctioneer, property
salesman, and general commission agent, and will
be glad to receive instructions from clients. Mr.
Higgs hopes that his career in public life is a
sufficient guarantee of the thoroughness with
which any commissions entrusted to him will be
performed. Catalogues in course of preparation.
Address : Wm. Guy Higgs and Co., No. 35 Post
Office Chambers, 114 a Pitt Street, Sydney.*
YUSSUF KHAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As the camel-train is stringing - there’s a tall man with it
swinging,
With a figure straight and slim, and with sinew in his
stride ;
’Tis that strange and silent man, grey and wiry Yussuf
Khan :
A bit of ancient As. ~ full of ignorance and pride.
He is nob devoidof grace, but inscrutable of face ;
He’s a son of sand and sunshine, and he’s up in desert
lore ;
From the old Semitic strains, that were smitten in the
veins,
With the instinct of the nomad, he must wander ever-
more.
He is not a yellow man, old and hardy Yussuf Khan,
But he’s Asian, and he’s colored, and of-alien thought and
race;
Hisst he propagate and grow, he must mount his packs
and go
From the newer, cleaner country—lest the ill weeds grow
apace.
Not for hate, O Yussuf Khan, of a harmless, colored man ;
But the thin end of the wedge you are slowly working in.
Though there’s room for all, you say, yet we cannot let
you stay,
For there’s menace in the color of your Asiatic skin.
Look ye, Yussuf, we are right; for we’d have Australia
white
For the future generations, for the children of our race ;
You must shift your kit and pack, you must take your
passage back—
We will pay you for your camels, O inscrutable of face !
Tell your countrymen we mean to keep this our garden
clean,
That we do it not unwittingly, nor yet in hate or
doubt;
You may be a splendid man, but you’re Asia, Yussuf
Khan,
And it’s written very plainly—We Must Keep the Asian
Out.
VJC.
C. G. A. CODLES.


A Man Talßed —
and in His talk He said “ I need a Typewriter. All
the business letters I receive are typewritten—all
my competitors Have machines — but. I cannot afford to
pay £27 for one. I know that a Typewriter would increase my
business by getting more customers —would give a tone, which is
now lacking, to all my written communications, Hot, I do not
think it would be worth £27 to me.”
This man then saw an advertisement of
The Briton,
and this advertisement said, 44 The Briton Typewriter is a standard
machine improved by simplicity. It will do all the work that any
Typewriter can do, and do it as rapidly, as easily, and as well as
any other standard typewriter.”
The man then said: 44 I don't see how they can sell a Type-
writer as good as that for the price—l am a little doubtful— but,
it will only cost 2d. to get full information, and I will write to-day.”
When he received the information, he said: u lt all reads well, and
the pictures are all right, bu.t I see they are offering a free trial,
and as they pay the freight both ways it will cost me nothing'
to see and try the actual machine —that's fair —I'll try it.”
After using the Briton, he said: 44 The machine is as good as
any I have ever seen —I cannot express how thoroughly pleased I
am with it, and it only cost me
£l2/10/0
No money required with order. Ten days’ trial free.
We pay all freights.
Here is an offer so vital —so fair that you cannot ignore it.
Southern Sales, Limited,
284 George Street, Sydney (Sox 1700).
18 Queen Street, Melbourne.
7 Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
RIDING BREECHES
38/6
To Measure.
m m
rara
V
mm
m
mm
81
HI
THE ACME OF COMFORT.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS—A PERFECT FIT GUARAN-
TEED for Knickers and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement
Forms, Patterns, Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 Bcmrße Street, Melbourne.
■Malthoid Dampcourse.-
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“// it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
A DAMPCOURSE is of such vital importance that nothing less than
the best should be entertained, and it would be better to select one of the
highest standard, with a splendid reputation, than take any risks with an
inferior grade. Analysts, Architects, and Builders have only expressed one
opinion about Malthoid Dampcourse —“ Absolutely satisfactory.”
BOOKLET AND TESTIMONIAL FREE.
xUnZ
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
HERE’S A GIFT!
For 10/6 we will post to
your address a complete
shaving; outfit, that is sell-
ing; rapidly all over the
State. Each article is of
splendid quality, and
guaranteed to please
YOU.
A COMPLETE SHAVING
OUTFIT FOR.
10/6.
THE PARCEL COMPRISES
1 COOD RAZOR
1 RAZOR STROP
1 PACKET RAZOR PASTE
1 STICK SHAVING SOAP
1 SHAVING BRUSH
1 BOTTLE BAY RUM
1 SHAVING MUG
1 STOP-BLOOD STICK
Money Back if you’re not pleased.
POST FREE 10/6.
CRAIG AND AITKEN 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established
25 Years.
h
ĥ
* Unrivalled for the Complexion
Cold Medal, Paris Exhibition, 1900.
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904.
WOLFF & 80HN,
KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
GREEN COUPONS
HAVE STOOD THE TEST
OF TIME —They have given
Satisfaction for NINE YEARS.
fSS
L!i
Thousands of Homes have been made
Better and Brighter by means of
GREEN COUPONS.
Thousands of Wise Ladies have been induced to Pay Cash
for all they BUY , and with the Discount they have
obtained by means of GREEN COUPONS
have furnished their Homes FREE of Cost.
GREEN COUPONS
ARE THE VALUABLE
COUPONS !
Visit the Showrooms —
387 George Street (opposite The Strand), SYDNEY.
Therefore, when shopping', say
“GREEN COUPONS, PLEASE.”


SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Even though Tatt.’s Sweep should survive all
attempts at repression by the Commonwealth and State
Governments, it must inevitably be at last squeezed to
death by grasping horse-owners. As a lottery, discon-
nected from “ the evils of the turf,” it would always
appeal to the gambling spirit of the community, but the
turf connection grows positively disgusting to common
sense. Tatt.’s Sweeps on the less important races have
lost all appearance of offering the advertised prize in its
entirety to the dnawer of the winning horse. To ensure
a run for his (or her) money the lucky drawer must
nowadays “ approach ” the owner with an offer of
about half the stake. The fact is proclaimed in
the daily press as though the Sweep were an Owners’
Benefit Fund, subscribed by the public for purposes of
self-taxation, the penalty for non-compliance with an
owner’s demand being the scratching of the geegee that
might have won. What else can be inferred from the
following par. in Melbourne Age ? “ Sweep considerations
had much to do with the composition of the field yester-
day for the Sandhurst Cup. It is said the connections of
Pierus were laid a substantial stake by the holder of the
gelding in the ‘ consultation,’ but the drawer of Tulkeroo
remained incognito." Of the two stable companions,
Tulkeroo was said to be the better at the weights, but
the person who had drawn the horse in Tatts. made no
offer of prize money. He thought he had a chance to
win the first prize, and was entitled to the whole of his
luck. Because he had bought his ticket under a wrong
impression, he lost his first-prize chance after he had
drawn it. Illogical punters are in the habit of saying
that half a loaf is better than nothing, if the loaf is worth
£4OOO, and you have bought it for five shillings and two-
pence. But the injustice of the tax on ticket-drawers is
palpable enough when viewed in a magnified form. A
syndicate that bought 12,000 tickets would seem lucky to
get first prize in their lot, yet if they had had to part with
half of .their luck in order to secure a run for the other
half, they would make a loss on the transaction.
* * * *
The Gambling Bill now before Maoriland Par-
liament is a masterpiece of Judding, complicated with
symptoms of Iltey Cohen. Its principal features are (1)
abolition of the double tote, (2) compulsory licensing of
Ikey Jones by the Racing Clubs, (3) one race one divvy,
and (4) the diverting of portion of the totalisator per-
centage from the Treasury to benevolent institutions.
As regards the double tote, its tendency has been to
lessen gambling. When Bill’s quid is locked up for the
greater part of the day in the double machine, William’s
ability to back bis fancy is accordingly limited. Where
the double machine has been used, the volume of busi-
ness on the straight-out totes has diminished. The re-
appearance of Solomon Mclntosh will not assist the
reformers to anticipate the millennium ; neither will it
conduce' to clean sport. But it will enable youths
possessed of the infrequent bob and the elusive half-
dollar to indulge in modest wickedness. The abolition of
the second divvy will simply increase the value of the
first. Even the wildest, maddest Jud cannot expect it to
do anything else. Another clause decrees that the
machines shall cease doing business ten minutes before
each race; this was apparently inserted at the urgent
request of Cohen O’Flaherty.
* * * *
Considering how often a gee-gee- gets beaten
because the rider didn’t “put any money on it,” The
Bulletin is almost moved to tears by the story of how
Hawkeye came to be disqualified at Moonee Valley
(Melb.) races the other week. The trouble with
Hawkeye was that its amateur rider, Mr. Rea,
did put money on the animal. When he weighed
out he had 40 sovs. in the pocket of his riding
pants, and the clerk passed him as all right. After
saddling up, the sanguine jockey handed 20 of the sovs.
to a friend to put them upon Hawkeye. But in thus
taking them off the horse he lightened its burden by six
ounces, and what with his profuse perspiration and ex-
haustion of nervous tissue during the race the
triumphant amateur couldn’t draw the weight on return-
ing to scale.
• * * *
At a recent meeting in the Poverty Bay district
(M.L.) the “ silent tote ” made a bad blunder. An investor
calmly walked up and bought a ticket on the prad that
was ; leading by lengths, with only a few yards to go.
Then the bewildered onlookers rushed up to repeat the
dodge, but the man in the machine suddenly became
aware that the race had just finished. Theblame did not
lie with the tote, but with the steward, whose duty it is
to ring the “ close up tote ” bell, and had forgotten to
do so.
• • ■* *
Colin McKenzie, who has been doing big cricket
things around Melbourne lately, is a nephew of ex-
Minister McKenzie. Eight years ago he left Scots College
in a hurry, fearing blindness (both his father and uncle
have been afflicted that way), but two years’ rest fixed
him up, and for awhile past he has been the star cricketer
of the Seymour district (Vic.).
* * * *
The names of the first Australian team which
visited England in ’7B are worth recalling, now that the
best of them has gone to play in the Elysian fields :
Harry F. Boyle, J. Conway (manager), Tommy Horan,
Jack McCarthy Blackham, Frank Allan, Dave Gregory,
Tom Garrett, Alick Bannerman, Charlie Bannerman, W.
L. Murdoch, F. R. Spofforth, Midwinter (who died
three or four years ago) and G. Bailey, of Tas.
Everyone knows how that splendid combination put the
reputation of Australian cricket on a firm basis when it
accomplished the feat of putting the M.C.C.—practically
an all-England eleven—through for 33 and 19 runs—
Boyle taking 3 wickets for 14 and 6 for 3, and
“Spoff ” 6 for 4 and 4 for IG—and winning by
nine wickets. The long, lean six-footer went to
England with five teams after that, the last time as
manager. In bowling he “ broke ” but little, from the
leg side, but he kept a splendid length, with persistent
accuracy, and he got his wickets mainly by picking the
batsman's weak spot. His fielding was as good as his
bowling, and the unique position he created—at close
mid-on—has never been filled so well by anyone else.
“ C. and b. Boyle” used once to be a standing line in the
cricket report's. A thin, brown, wiry man, grey of late
years, but straight as a rush always and in every way,
Harry Boyle played the game for his side, not for his own
reputation.
The Australian Board of Control would be
justified in asking Joe Darling to resign his position on
the Selection Committee, which is to choose Australia’s
reps in the test matches. Darling, it is announced, is off
to Tasmania to look after his station, and doesn’t intend
to play inter-State cricket. It isn’t reasonable to suppose
that a man is of much value as a judge when he hasn’t
seen the teams at play. Young players who are battling
for a place in the team view with dismay Darling's
absence from these matches, and his fondness for players
of old Australian Xl’s.
• ■* * *
Official figures of the Yic. v. M.C.C. match
give the attendance at 40,332, of which only 19,427 paid
at the g-ates, while 20,895 walked through on members’
passes. More than half the attendance, therefore,
yielded no profit to the Board of Control—a circumstance
which emphasises the need of a percentage from mem-
bers’ fees as well as from the gate receipts.
* * * *
Victoria’s total of 699 against S.A. is the tallest
by the Bent State in rep. matches. Armstrong’s 231
constitutes a record for a Victorian against S.A. ; while
the same player also has the highest tally for a Vic.
player against N.S.W. *
Captain A. O. Jones, of the M.C.C. team, is a
good footballer as well as a cricketer, and one of the best
referees in England.
Sydney Grammar School-boy E. P. Barbour
keeps up a run of big* scores in Great Public Schools
cricket, and last week scored 112 runs out of a total of
224 against S.C.E.G.S. Yet no steps are taken to try
this brilliant boy cricketer in better company.
Saturday last saw the First Grade Cricket com-
petition resumed in Sydney, and Victor Trumper, having
recovered from the effect of the awful Limerick about the
“champagne of cricket,” was himself again. He divided
the slogging with Noble, and the pair smacked up 206 in
65min., Trumper’s little lot being 128. No less than 94 of
the total came through boundary strokes. This is a
solemn warning against allowing ribald newspapers to
make Limericks about men who have to uphold the honor
of the country, and the outcome will probably be an
arrangement by which a man who has been Limericked
will be allowed to stand down till he has recovered from
the effects. Other men who wielded the willow
mightily were Nicholls and Barnes, of Redfern, who col-
lared the Burwood bowling for 122 and 100 respectively.
Noble carried his bat out for 64, and the great little Syd
Gregory left 63 on the board when he went pavilion-
wards. E. L. Waddy made 98 for Central Cumberland
against Middle Harbor, and in the bye-match against
University, Folkard, of Callan Park, totted up 166, and
was going strong when the stumps were drawn. Spite of
all this fine batting the bowlers also put up some fine
figures. Wadsworth, of Redfern, knocked down four of
Bunvood’s for seven runs. Johnson, of North Sydney,
smashed up six Balmain wickets for 45 ; Pitt, of Gordon,
got five of Sydney’s wickets for 52; and M’Oloy, .of
Paddington, downed six Petersham men for 64. The
only fly in the ointment is that they do not do these sort
of things against the Englishmen—but there’s plenty of
time yet.
* ■» » •*
Prince Alfred Yacht Club’s ocean race for the
Petrel Cup, on Saturday, appropriately enough took
place under stormy conditions. The nor’-east gale ripped
great gullies in the waters, and the resultant cliffs fell
down with roar and surge, burying the yachts and sweep-
ing over the decks of the steamer Robbie Burns in a way
that made that stout ship behave in a very inebriated
manner. And the “ wild white horses of the Lord ” went
racing past, flashing in the sunlight, smothering the
yachts and making navigation more than risky. Nine of
them had faced the starter, Rawhiti and Culwulla being
on the scratch line. Magic came late and got away 15min.
late, went outside, looked at the leaping ocean, and
seeing the hopelessness of making up time in such a sea,
wisely returned. White Wings came out under a full
head, making a brave show with topsail and all,
but only got as far as Taylor Bay, in the Harbor,
where the bucket blew out, and the skipper lowered
away and retired. Culwulla walked through the fleet
and was leading till opposite North Head, where some-
thing went' wrong, and Mr. Marks hove to, effected re-
pairs, and again rushed to the front. Approaching the
mark, which was laid five miles nor’-east of South Reef,
Awanui flew through the seas like a bird and swept round
the mark five seconds ahead of Culwulla, behind which
came Norman Murray in the gallant little Heather, with
Rawhiti plunging along in close pursuit. As they came
round the spinnakers flashed out, and the yachts bounded
away on the race back to port. So fast they flew that
when the Robbie Burns had finished fishing up the round-
ing buoy they were out of sight, and all details lost, ex-
cepting that Rawhiti passed Heather on the homeward
rush and that Awanui, maintaining the lead, beat Culwulla
by 2min. ssec.,and Culwulla led Rawhiti by lmin. 35sec.,
with Heather 2£min. behind Rawhiti.
* * * *
Although the season has only just begun,
Awanui has done big credit to Saxton. In five starts the
splendid boat has scored four wins and one third. No
wonder the Melbourne people fear for the Sayonara Cup.
* * * *
Pair-oared Championship of Victoria over the
mile lower-Yarra course on Saturday afternoon caused
a surprise. An Essendon junior pair obtained a foot
win alter a desperate battle with Civil Service—who
really deserved to win, if correct rowing goes for any-
thing. Six crews started, three being paddled by top-
notch inter-State men, but their reputation went for
nothing, as they were blotted out before half-way. The
dead birds were Parks and Mercs, and the knowing
brigade fell to zero when they fizzled early. Righfon to
the finish gritty Billy Anketell kept Service mostly in
front, till Essendon assumed command nearing the old
river.. Anketell came at ’em, but the extra stone in front
told its tale, and Essendon got the verdict by a foot in
the very slick time of smin. 23 3-ssec. Parks, two
lengths away, were third. T’others survived the ordeal.
The win upset all calculations, and the Parks and Mercs
haven’t quite got over it yet. On the day, first and
second crews showed undisputed championship form.
* * * *
After a desperate struggle, N.S.W. champion
sculler Tresidder has raised £3OO of the £5OO stake for the
championship race. .Unless some more generous response
is made to the appeal for subscriptions, it is more than
possible that the race may fall through after all. The
editor of the Sunday Sun, Sydney, has appealed to Corn-
stalks to put up the balance just to give the old State a
chance of regaining the honor it held so long. Already
Maoriland is in a fever of excitement, and the whole popu-
lation of the Isles threatens to heave itself into Wanganui
to see the struggle. The same whole population recently
had a narrow escape from falling down dead en masse,
some person, variously described as a scoundrel, lunatic,
idiot and cow, having started a rumor that Webb had
broken a blood vessel. However, it turned out to be the
usual untruthful rumor, and Maoriland placed both hands
over its heart and drew a long breath of relief.
* * * *
Maoriland admirers of world’s champion sculler
William Webb presented him with a cheque for £435 and
a gold watch the other day, and the lionising is said to be
not half through yet.
* * * *
After much newspaper correspondence and
defiance the match between Mr. Davies’ champion boat
Fairbanks and Mr. Knowles’ Baby Simplex is off. Hard
to say who is to blame—if that is the correct expression—
and a general idea is that one is afraid and the other not
game. Davies wants to race over the Shark Island-
Manly championship course, and will agree to no other.
Knowles wants to try conclusions over the measured
knot, and won’t consent to any other water. Both have
said “ Yah ! ” and there the matter stands. In the mean-
time, there is no word from Mort’s Dock about building
that fast boat to hoist the Australian flag over Austral-
asian waters.
* * * *
Freely stated in British yachting circles that
there will be no more racing for the America Cup.
Under present conditions the contest has degenerated
into a farce—a struggle between a racing shell and a sea-
going yacht. The Yankees, holding the Cup, can build
any sort of gimcrack speed-machine capable of holding
together for a few weeks, while British challengers have
to build a vessel capable of battling across the Atlantic
on its own; and it would be straight-out murder and
suicide to risk lives in a craft of the Reliance type on an
Atlantic passage.
* # ■* «
The Australian cycling slump has spread to
Maoriland. A recent meeting of the M.L. Wheelmen’s
League spluttered out for want of a quorum, the total
attendance being the secretary, the chairman, and a
solitary delegate.
* * -X *
“0.K.”: Predictions of failure for the Austral
Wheel meeting, at the M.C.O. Ground, strike me as being
in direct opposition to probability. In the years when
Melbourne’s biggest cycling event was run on the grass
track, the M. 8.0. made always a large profit, which dis-
appeared when the fixture was transferred to the banked
asphalt track at the Exhibition Oval. Evidently the
public in general preferred the Cricket Ground as a show
place, and now that it offers increased comfort in seating
accommodation, it is not likely to be less preferred. As
for the disadvantages of a level grassed track, they are
not seriously considered by the thousands of sightseers
who care nothing for “records” in bike racing. There
are no new objections to Melbourne Cricket Ground as a
racecourse for wheelmen. It has lost nothing that it,
formerly possessed. The wooden track (which is said to
be an indispensable requirement) was never there. More-
over, the M.C.C. will not .permit a wooden track on the
ground. The M. 8.0. is glad to take what it can
get, and it gets the best show place in the
city on the same terms as of old. The racing
will be more attractively managed than it was in
the palmy days of yore, for under the new conditions
everybody, except the men on the extreme front and
back marks, will be botli paced and chased, in a measure.
Also the handicapper will have the power to readjust the
scale of distances for the finals, if necessary. Cyclists
ihust, in the natural course of things, be conspirators to
some extent, even in the best contested races, but as far
as the public can judge the game, a fast track is more
favorable to combination tactics than a slow one. In
short, an Austral on the grass is likely to be a rather
better display of individual pluck and endurance than an
Austral on the wood. Why then should the forthcoming
meeting be foredoomed to failure ?
* * * . «
The latest brand of madman scatters tacks on
the high roads as a means of being offensive to cyclists
and motorists. He makes the roads dangerous not only
to them, but also to horses, dogs, and human beings. Some
enormous tacks have lately been scattered about the
roads of the western suburbs of Sydney, and so far more
horses than motors have been injured. The .only motor
that punctured was one conveying a doctor to attend a
sick woman, and owing to the tyre being punctured he
took a long time over the journey, and an unfortunate
woman had about an hour’s unnecessary agony in conse-
quence. When that woman’s husband meets a man
scattering tacks in the roadway there will probably be a
death in the tack lunatic’s family. On the other hand,
this scattering of tacks suggests that motorists are gene-
rally unpopular, owing to the vagaries of a few hogs. Yet
most of the motorists around Sydney are decent sorts, as
the spectacle of the Automobile Club taking for an outing
in their cars 200 little orphans from. the Bandwick
Asylum, on Saturday last, suggests.
4c * * .
E. L. Apperley, who was runner-up for the
N.S.W. amateur golf championship, played for last week,
is but a youngster, and is generally supposed to be
N.S.W.’s hope as a rising amateur star against the
Victorian golfers, who rule the roost in Commonwealth
golf matters. His pa is H. W. Apperley, boss of the
A.M.P. Industrial Branch. He generally perambulates
the landscape after the elusive golf ball at Killara, on the
North Shore line, where a few gullies and hilltops have
been roped round and advertised as golf links. On the
civilised “Boyal’s” links at Bose Bay he was at a dis-
advantage. Yet he finished the final round all square
With E. P. Simpson, a Boyal’s champion. On playing an
extra hole, the 37th, Apperley junior lost by one stroke.
* * » *
J. T. Lake, the Adelaide civilian rifle-shot,
whom many people wanted to send to Bisley instead of
Lieutenant Addison, has been steadily beating the English
King’s Prize winner since his return. In the big indivi-
dual match at Adelaide—the British team’s last—Lake
beat the whole held, Baven, the British sailor, being
second, and Addison fourteenth. Lake is a King’s Prize
winner in four States.
* * * *
Australia has a sporting interest in G. H.
Druce’s claim to the Portland title and estates. A
previous Duke of Portland was the purchaser of Carbine,
and the bones of that late quadruped are included in the
family estates.
* * * *
Edison’s reported announcement that he has
perfected a storage battery that will drive a motor car
50,000 miles without being recharged, has caused lots of
seasoned motor men to wink the other eye and tap their
temples expressively. Either Edison has achieved some-
thing like a large hunk of perpetual motion, or he is
breaking down, or he is the victim of some wild-minded
reporter.
The Wade Ministry is introducing a Motor
Begulation Bill in N.S.W., which will, if passed in its
present state, do a lot to restrain the Hog in the Car.
Speed, lights, bells, and other alarms are all regulated,
and cars are to be registered and drivers licensed.
Upon conviction for any offence against the Act,
registration may be withdrawn, and the owner of
the car will have to show good cause why it
should be restored. One thing very necessary is that
the registered number of the car should be painted in
large conspicuous figures on its side and back, so that, in
the event of any callous brute trying to make off after
having injured a pedestrian, recognition may be easy.
The Bill will have the enthusiastic support of the
automobilists, who are more anxious, as a body, than
anyone else to suppress the Hog. The Hog makes the
tacks grow on the suburban road, and is an enemy to
automen and humanity in general.
* *■ * »
The Australian abroad, in the person of S. F.
Edge, has proved what he can do in the motor line, and
now the “Butlin Change Speed Gear,” which was in-
vented and made in Sydney, proves that the Australian
at home is not a helpless user of imported notions.
This new apparatus makes it impossible to strip the gear,
and will considerably reduce the danger of hiringout cars
to fools. It also makes it possible to avoid some of the
accidents that have brought motors into disrepute, as the
car can be reversed when going at full speed without
stripping the clutch. The inventor has gone to Europe
to stagger motoring humanity with the new idea, and
deserves to do well.
* * * *
“J.”: Saw a startling sight in Sydney’s Cen-
tennial Park the other night. Was cycling along with a
companion, doing about 10 miles an hour, when a man
suddenly shot past us. He seemed to be walking, but
loomed up about 7ft. 6in. in the starlight. We started off
in pursuit to investigate. The giant looked over his
shoulder, and immediately put on pace ; and it was not
till half-a-mile had been cut out close up to record that
we ranged up, one on either side. “ Are you a jim-jam ?”
I asked as pleasantly as I could in my puffed state. “ No,”
he replied cheerfully, “ not yet 1 ” i‘ Well, what are you ? ”
“ I’m a pneumatic skater ! ” he replied, and then went on
to inquire if we had anything cool about us. Afterwards,
under the lee of a rook, we extracted the cork with a
pocket knife, and he showed us his feet. Fastened to his
boot was a light steel framework, from which protruded
a pair of forks, bicycle-like, back and front.
Each pair of forks was fitted with a pneu-
matic-tyred wheel of about eight inches diameter.
1 asked him was it a new invention, but he said it was a
very old one, dating back some eight or nine years, but
which had failed to catch-on owing to the frequency of
punctures. He claims that a man travelled on the
apparatus from Bulawayo to Capetown in half the time
a horseman could have done, and made a great and scare-
ful impression on the natives and Boers as he fled
through. About 15 miles an hour seems to be the limit
of safe travelling on an ordinary road. On asphalted
tracks, like those of the Centennial Park, he claims to be
able to work up to 20 or 22 miles an hour.
* » * *
The Northern Union Rugby game is described
by A. H. Baskerville, who is running the professional
“ All Blacks ” in the Ma Land, as a faster and better game
than the amateur. There is more skill and less bullock -
inginit; also a great deal of “passing,” and not much
kicking into touch. The Northerners do still kick into
touch, but the ball must fall into the field of play ; it
can then roll or bounce over the touch line. This reduces
line-finding to a fine art. The wing-forward finds no place
under Northern Union rules. He is half-back, in the
true sense of the term, and he isn’t allowed to advance in
front of his back-row forwards until the ball is quite clear
of the scrum. There are no ridiculous formalities about a
free kick, as there are in the amateur game. When the
latter has a “ free,” a placer lies dourn, often in the mud,
aud wastes time while the kicker places the ball in posi-
tion. Then there is more fooling round until the kick is
delivered. The Northern Union man places the ball him-
self, and has a “ free ” kick in every sense of the word,
his opponents not even being allowed to charge his
attempt.
“Soccer” football, as played in England:
Chelsea (London) Club, being at the top of the Second
division of the League last season, was promoted to the
First. Apparently it found the company very different
there, for, by the middle of October, it had only won one
match and lost six. This meant sinking to the Second
division again at the end of the season. So the directors
(the club is a registered company, like most of its rivals)
got to work and “searched the country from end to end
for capable players,” who would be willing to move, and
whose clubs would let. them move, for in England you
mustn’t poach, but have to buy. At latest advices, the
Londoners had strengthened their eleven with two of the
best men in Lancashire, and were beginning to win
matches. One of the two, a goal-kicker, “is said to have
cost the southerners very nearly four figures,” all of
which would go to the funds of bis old club. The induce-
ment offered to the player himself is a secret; there is a
pious fiction that £4 a week is the maximum wage, and
must never be exceeded. But, in that case, why do
about a third of all the crack performers change owners
every season ?
* * * *
The Vic. Football Association, which kicks
itself at times during the summer to make sure it isn’t
dead, lately cut off another piece of its nose to spite its
face by wiping out West Melbourne and North Melbourne
as clubs, because they had applied for admission to the
Football League. “ North ” wasn’t much loss, but
“ West,” which was runner-up last winter, and Richmond,
which departed on its own, were payable propositions;
and as “South Oss ” is now playing speaks with the
League once more, and wants to drop the Association, it
looks as if that feeble-minded body will be amateur all
right—amateur because it won’t be able to be anything
else.
* * * *
“Snell” : I was present at that championship
“ ’rastle ” in Melbourne, the other night, after which the
public was much more tired than the competitors. As
explained, Buttan Singed, or Singh, or something, was to
hoist a “pairitcb” expert “fra Glaskie awa,” but
champion Willie Withers Bain declined at the 11th hour,
in consequence of some difficulty about the bawbees, and
a lesser light named locally Peter Burris —which is the
Australian for Peter Barmon apparently—was put up to
take a wind out of the Indian. The public howled for its
ducats, but it was practically told to go hang, and when
the one man who stood up for restitution of public beans
was torn down by several plug-uglies, and fired into the
cold, wet night, the audiencebecame abjectly decorous, and
the wrestle proceeded. Sometimes it was a wrestle, at
other times it was a prize fight with the “ raws,” and
again it was a realistic representation of two fierce he-
sheep trying to butt each other’s brains out. Then, fora
term, it was pure wrangle and barney. The last half-hour
was devoted to mere pawing; and when it was all over
there was another frantic wrangle. The promoters
wrangled with the umpire; private managers, cornermen,
and casual acquaintances wrangled with the promoters;
and theaudieuceclimbedon the chairs and yelled aimlessly.
The promoters, wrestlers, manager, hangers-on, rela-
tions, and bottle-holders retired to the dressing-room in
a clump, still wrangling, and at midnight their frenzied
disputation was filling Exhibition-street with vehement
echoes. At the time of writing no news of a decision has
been made public. Possibly the wrangle is still on. If
10 people get talked to death it will be a splendid thing
for wrestling in Australia.
• * * *
The Moodie-Sullivan scrap, at Sydney Gaiety,
on Saturday night, was a series of curious reversals. At
first Moodie, the Victorian, got so thoroughly pasted
that it took the combined cursing of all his seconds to
keep him going. He was receiver-general till, in the
fourth round, he got a fearful bash that woodened him
for about five seconds. Then he arose all wrath
and baresark, and waded in to Sullivan in a way
that staggered the Sydneyite, and quickly wiped out
the margin of marks, bruises and contusions. This cheer-
ful rally lasted to the eighth round, when his baresark
fury suddenly petered out, and he quitted. The most
surprised man in the crowd was the victor, who was just
beginning to realise that he was getting a devil of a
hiding. By the way, why the authorities allow this
building to be crammed and jammed to bursting point by
fight patrons when it is condemned as a theatre is beyond
human understanding. *
“ There are only four punches after all that are
any real good to a fighting-man,” said “ Billy ” Jordan,
of Chicago, t’other day. And therein William, who is now
73 years old, and who has followed boxing since the days
of Jem Mace, uttered a great truth. The punches he
nominates are (i) a right to the jaw, viz., to the chin.
Here the fighter punches W'ith a downward slant, and no
man on earth can take a hit thus administered and re-
cover quickly enough to avoid a knock-out. Then
there are (2) a left to the stomach, and (3) the
right under the heart. Latter is the hit that
is w’orth all the others. It takes the life out of the
stricken battler, and sickens him and bends him up with
pain. Who hasn’t seen the little man in the street-fight,
who knew T what he was about, settle a dangerous-looking
adversary with this blow ? Number 4 in Jordan’s list is
the cross-counter —effective, but difficult to bring off.
These are the hits that the big fighter, careful as he is of
his hands, puts all his beef into. If any one of them comes
off it means the registering of a knock-out.
* * * *
Geach, of the various shows, has secured films of
the Burns-Squires tragedy for projection in N.S.W. The
pathetic incident runs for 20min. to soft, slow' music.
* * * *
After 14 years’ absence from Australia, Tom
Burrows, champion club-swinger of the world, comes
home again with quite a heap of records, the best (or
w’orst) of which is that of swinging continuously a pair
of 41b. clubs for 61 hours 45 minutes— a mighty piece of
useless endurance.
By no manner of means do all the
“nearly-drowned” cases on the Sydney surf
beaches get to a knowledge of the public.
Most often the unfortunate is just yanked
out by a casual rescuer, spread out on
the coast to dry, and nothing more
is said. An instance : Colonel Wells, A.F. A., on
Sunday, single-handed, brought a man to shore
who had got into difficulties and was crying out
for help. It is only the organised rescue as a rule
that gets into the papers ; the often far more
plucky individual save gets no limelight. By the
way, a new' danger is added to the beaches—
mischievous horse-play by larrikins, who try to
help the hungry waves to victims by “ducking”
weaklings.
WOEMS:
INFALLIBLE SYMPTOMS.
Intestinal worms afflict both young and old,
but are more frequently found in children than
adults. They are generally the result of defective
digestion, depraved appetite, or unwholesome
food. The long thread worm and the pin worm
are the most common, and their presence in the
bowels is accountable for the peevishness and
irritability of children. A child who is constantly
hungry is invariably suffering from worms, as the
worms cause a gnawing and distressing sensation
when the bowels are partly empty. A depraved
appetite and a disposition to pick the nose are
infallible symptoms of the complaint, which
should not be neglected. Comstock’s “ Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets are perfectly harmless to
the most delicate constitution, but are a safe and
sure remedy for the eradication of worms. Ob-
tainable at all chemists and stores, or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Price, Is. 6d. per box (six boxes, Bs.).


RUGELMANN’vS
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
' sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pef
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14*16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St, SYDNEY
Awb at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
jUTEALTHY HURST VILLE.
NINE MILES FROM SYDNEY. SPLENDID SERVICE. REDUCED FARES.
A VERY FINE SUBDIVISION. Block of 150 Acres,
MORTGAGEE’S LAND SALE, £22 lOs.
FRED. BROWN, Auctioneer and Agent, HURSTVILLE.
Per
Acre.
UNIFICATION Means
ONE Parliament for ALL Australia.
ALL GOOD AUSTRALIANS (by either birth or
adoption) who have regard for their country are
cordially invited to co-operate in obtaining signatures to
a monster petition to the Commonwealth Parliament
requesting a Referendum re the abolition of the State
Parliaments. Funds urgently needed to carry on the
work. Apply for petition forms to
•JOHN B. STEEL, 192 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
PRINTING
AND STATIONERY FOR 1908.
'T'HE New Year will see all progressive
1 Houses, Companies, and individuals
looking for the better kind of Printing—
the sort that pays the user best. During
1907, and before it, W. E. Smith has been
recognised as the producer of the “ best,”
and my best for 1908 will be better than
my “best” of 1907. It’s the right quality
of Printing and Stationery that costs you
less at W. E. Smith’s.
Company Printing: and Stationery. Printing: and
Stationery for Wholesale and Retail Houses.
No Order too small. No Quantity too great.
No Desires too exacting.
AVritb for Samples and Quotations.
W. K. SMITH,
Printer, Stationer, and Account Book Maker,
BRIDCE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Newcastle and London.
A FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those by means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for l/« and postage, for
A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by R. Herschell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“ REFEREE ” says : “ The prince of living
Astrologers. ”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
R* HERSCHELL (oy London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
Fill in, Cot Out and Send this Advt.
Name
Address
Date of Birth
Property Sale
IMPORTANT PROPERTY SALE.
KENNARD ANI) CAMERON, Stock and
Station Agents of Toowoomba (Q), report the sale
of the whole of No. 1 Subdivision of Condamine
Plains, some 8,300 acres, to Mr. J. 0. N. Grigg,
of Longbeach, Canterbury, New Zealand, Mr,
Grigg is the owner of the far famous “ Star ” farm
of New Zealand, and a decided acquisition to the
Darling Downs. His extensive experience in
lamb-raising and interests in freezing should lead
to the establishment of a very big industry, and
no doubt many New Zealanders will follow his
example, and secure similar holdings on Conda-
mine Plains, Yandilla and Ellangowan, three
magnificent estates now- being subdivided, and un-
surpassed for mixed farming, comprising beauti-
ful alluvial flats, open plains, and lightly timbered
forest, at prices from £3 to £5 per acre.
Fullest particulars on application to
KENNARD AND CAMERON,
Stock and Station Agents, TOOWOOMBA.
u
3^
R*
PURE, WHOLESOME,
INVIGORATING.
“0.T.” is just the very drink
for the critical man in search
nf n perfect beverage. It is
natural, wholesome, invig-
orating, delicious —a drink
guaranteed at every point.
Mixed with water, wine,
spirits, lemonade or soda
it has no equal as a summer
beverage.
All Hotels, Grocers,
Chemists and General
Stores stock “ 0.T.,” but it
is necessary to look for the
Red Chilli e label.
J-DTxsn*o>
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies ami affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
issb
KS>v
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groce , s and
H ardware
Dealers,
among whom arc
Sidney—Anthony Hordern ft Sons: Elliott Bros., Ltd-
O’Connell St.; F. H. Faulding it Co., O'Connell St.;
Washiny. H Soul Patten son & Co., 2f>B, Pitt St.;
Australian Dron Co., O’Connell St.; Favers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. : S. HofTnunr & Co.. Pitt St.:
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co., Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., TJ.S.A'
ħ
MEDICATOR.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRHis inflammation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDIC WOtt cures
Catarrh, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitis. Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’treatment, post free,
STAR NOVELTY CO.
229 Collins Street, Melbourne
IF you take THE LONE HAND from montli
to month, vou’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
THE UP-TO-DATE FISHING TACKLE
Bull-Dog
Hook
BUU.
D DC
25
Four-Joint 12 feet Maple Rod,
with Brass Reel Seat; Good
Brass Click Reel; 25 yards of
Fine Strong Tan Line ; liull-Dog
Hook Sure Catch; Luminous
Float for Night or Day Fishing.
The Lot for* 10/6, Carriage Paid.
THE angling season has once more come % and fishers who care to he right
up to date will buy this outfit. The articles are of excellent quality. Tho
Bull-Dog Hook is very ingenious, yet quite simple. It is set as shown
in the engraving, and when the fish pulls the hook springs sharply open, never
failing to catch securely and holding on like a “bull-dog.” The
arrangement of the twin hooks, the one covering the other, also saves much of the risk
of entanglement in weeds, etc. Every fisherman has experienced the want of a float
for night fishing. The Luminous Float can he distinctly seen in the
dark. and it attracts the fish without being so bright as to scare them.
The Bull-Dog Hook may be had separately for 2s. and the Luminous Float for Is. 6d., both
carriage paid. The Float has patent loops, enabling it to be attached to the line without th»
trouble of threading; can be fixed and removed in one minute. Send Postal Note of any State to
■ / q a
Xs>
UNION
MANUFACTURINGS & AGENCY COMPANY
299 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
h
The PLUM RAZOR shaves easy—never
pulls—never gives trouble —requires little attention —
is always satisfactory under all conditions.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
PLUM RAZOR, 10/6,
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10/6
Post Free Anywhere.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
etn-Ar
1
R
CONTINENTAL"
SQUARE-TREAD TYRES
Here and there some other make of tyre secures a brief tenancy of
local popularity, but in every country in the world where Motoring
is indulged in to any practical extent Continental Square Tread
Tyres are used and appreciated by experienced Motorists. Here
at Home in Australia —-in England, France, Germany, the United
States, South Africa, India—go where you will—the great
majority of cars are fitted with Continental Tyres. This world-
wide choice of Continental Tyres is due to their never'-failing
durability and reliability.
MELBOURNE DEPOT: 46-48 MARKET STREET.
SYDNEY DEPOT: CLARENCE STREET.
“Rhode Master” : Be the often-discussed
state of the Vic. railway tracks, please allow me
to affirm, on my word of honor as a Bulletin
contributor who avoids the Aboliars’ page, that
said tracks are all right. Not once, for the last
eight years, has a requisition for funds for re-
newals, made by the engineers’ branch, been
reduced. To the regular railway traveller the
most familiar sights along the tracks are the
camps of special gangs. These men are engaged
strengthening the tracks. Two splendid socialistic
quarries—one at Broadford, near the line, the other
at Penshurst—are sending out ballast as fast as
trains can handle it. Enormous stacks of sleepers
of good quality lie at every few stations ready for
loading or distribution. The re-ballasting and re-
sleepering have been going on without cessation
for the last 10 years. The main lines have in
the same period been re-laid with 80-lb. steel rails,
and the less important lines with lighter steel
rails, and very few miles of iron rails now remain.
The system of inspection is not, as stated by an
outside witness at the Moranding accident in-
quiry, hurried and inadequate. If that witness
had charge of a hundred-mile length for twelve
months he would be surprised at the require-
ments of his supervising officers. The tracks will
carry the new engine, and at 60 miles an hour.
On the main Sydney-Melbourne line, the south-
bound express daily cuts out the 25 miles from
Wallan to Essendon in 25 to 30 minutes, usually
the former. I’ve timed it any number of times,
and the running is so smooth that the jaundiced
N.S.W. traveller will hardly believe the evidence
of his own imported stop-watch. I’m rather
proud of the Vic. railway equipment, and no evil-
minded paper is going to pour obloquy on it with-
out hearing from me.
The crow’s-foot elm of North Queensland,
mentioned in Bulletin (31/10/’O7) as being a suit-
able timber for chair-making, is also an excellent
wood for rifle stocks. Queensland Director of
Forests McMahon has been trying—with some
success, it is said—to persuade the Commonwealth
authorities to use it in connection with the con-
templated manufacture of small arms. The tim-
ber is widely distributed and easily obtainable
throughout N.Q.
“ Curlew ”: Probably there is no town in
Australia so entirely foreign as Tanunda (S. A.).
It is the centre of a German settlement. The
sign-boards above the various stores and hotels
and the brass-plate of the doctor, all point to this.
The only thing carrying an Anglo-Saxon label is
the branch bank (there is no German bank at all
in Australia), and this is barely needed, as the
Germans with money lend it to their needy
neighbors. The famous Seppeltsfield, the second
largest winery in the world, is in this district.
Here 60 men are permanently employed, and, of
course, numbers of extra hands during the busy
season. All are Germans. The one Englishman
on the place is the Government Excise officer.
Curious what man will do to make his moustache
—proud banner of manhood- grow. Some have used lard
to advantage, others recommend kerosene, others have
whims and fancies. But almost every man desires a
“ mo.” As to how to get one : Writer knew of a man
who, the other day, went to meet his brother, whom he
had not seen for some little time, on the railway station.
After a while, he began to speculate whether his brother
had come by the train that had just arrived, when a man
resembling his brother came up to him. Then he
recognised him to be his brother ; but what an altered
man to what he had been several months previously !
“ Where did you get that fine moustache from, old man ? ”
he asked. He admitted having used a course of Capilla-
rine from Oraig and Aitken, of 654 George-street, Sydney,
who are the sole agents of this well-known moustache
producer. AH the “ mo.” had cost him was 10s. 6d., the
price of a ]x>ttle Of Capillarine.*


OPEN
FACE.
15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s High-grade Black Open-
face Keyless WATCHES, short wind,
jewelled movement.
15/.
Higher grade, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
All guaranteed.
higher
grade.
20/.
YULE-TIDE SOUVENIRS
Everyone at Xmas time is anxious to give their loved ones Handsome Xmas Presents.
Below we illustrate some Helpful Gift Suggestions.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Oval and Bar
LINKS,
1276
15-ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold
Forget-me-not
Spray Heart
CHARM,
107.
OUR XMAS
CATALOGUE
We send Post Free to any address.
Write for a Copy. All Goods sent
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold
Dinna Forget
CHARM,
10/.
Larger, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold Shield LINKS,
21/.
15-qt. Gold, £2;
Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting Key-
less WATCHES, fully jewelled,
richly-chased cases, JSSrJ/-
Higher Grade, 30/, 35A 40/; Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4,10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/, to £25.
a
ay
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Crescent BROOCH, set Fine White
Pearls,
£5/10/-
Size larger, £7/10/.
ear
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Half-round BRACELET, handsomely
Chased, 35/-
Larger 40/, Smaller 25/, 30/,
A. SAUNDERS.
N.Z. Grenstone PENDANT,
9-ct. Gold Mounted,
17/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Forget-itfe-Not Heart
and Spray BROOCH,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires.
22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 3-Bird BROOCH,
Set Pure Pearls,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Spray and Cluster
BROOCH,
Set Fine White Pearls, £2/s>/.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold SCARFPIN,
Pure Pearls and Diamond,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Dress RING,
set Pearls and Rubies or
Sapphires.
12/<>
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold Set Five
Fine Opals,
£l2/10/.
Larger Opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamond and Rubies
Sapphires,
£4/10/.
Three Diamonds, £5/10/.
OPEN
FACE.
207-
s
/
4
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES, non-
magnetic, fully jewelled, dust and watei
proof cases,
20/-
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/.
Cheaper Grades, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
HIGHER
GRADE.
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapuhires,
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO
Emerald Centre, £l2/10/
SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold, set Garnet, Opal,
or Amethyst,
25/-
15-ct. Gold, £2.
18-ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Bar and Heart
BROOCH,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Floral Spray BROOCH,
set Red or Blue Stones,
8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Bird 1 and Floral Spray Bar
BROOCH,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
Sat fine Pearls and Amethysts,
£4-
15-ct. Gold, £5/10/; Pearls and Tourmalines
£6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold, set Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires,
£2/10/.
3 Diamonds, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Bird and Floral Spray BROOC H,
Set Fine White Pearls,
£2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Fine Opal,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold “Lily of the Valley” BROOCH,
Set Fine White Pearls,
£4.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-mounted Glass
HATPIN,
Red, Blue, or Green,.
2/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set fine White
Pearls, £5-
Diamond Centre, £7/10/,
ij n lUiiilwilililtilllM
A. SAUNDERS.
9-et. Gold BRACELET, set Pearls and Rubies
or Sapphires, £i£/o/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. 3-Bar Scroll and Buckle
BROOCH,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15-ct. Geld 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Ruby or Sapphire,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Pearls,
22/6.
|u|QUiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiii'iiiii|
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Diamonds and Rubies' cr
. Sapphires, ......
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Diamonds and
Set Fine White Pearls,
Opals,
£4/10
A. SAUNDERS.
18-ct. Gold, Diamond and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
AS/10/, ■
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold BRACELET, set Diamonds
Sapphires,
£.‘J.
15-ct. Gold, £2/10/.
and Rubies, or
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold' PIN and
CHARM,
♦»'/<{•
Larger, 7/6.‘ ' Silver, 2/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Diamond and Rubies
or Sappiire“.
£«i-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold Set Pure
Double Cut Diamonds,
A. SAUNDERS.
9-ct. Gold Nugget RING,
25/.
15-ct. Gold £2.
18-et. Gold, £2/10/.
-
ass®
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting- Keyles
WATCHES, fully jewelled; compen
sation balance, ££.
Higher grade, £2/10/, £3,. £3/10/ 1 £4/10/
£5/10/.
Solid Gold, £7/10/,- £B/10/, £10; ■ £l2/10/
£l5, £2O, £25, £3O, £40.'./.-.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
- Opposite-New Railway Station,-Sytfrrey, N.S.W.


READY FOR XMAS
There’s no better time than this to buy Xmas Gifts. Our six extensive showrooms
are not so crowded now as they will be later, and our stock is all ready for Xmas.
IE YOU ARE NOT IN TOWN,
We will gladly send you, POST FREE, r. copy Of
our 304 page illustrated Catalogue. Write to-day.
IT IS YOURS FOR THE ASKING.
MAIL BUYING A PLEASURE.
We make buying by Mail a pleasure, with as perfect
satisfaction as if you were in our store. ALL GOODS
SENT CARRIAGE FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed, long fine
White bristles.
Post 25/-. Free
Other Styles,
20/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
VANITY BAG, Crocodile
calf, autumn shade, calf
lined, nickel frame,
Post 16/6. Free.
Other Styles,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ TRAVELLING ROLL, fitted with overv
convenienee, nickel mounts, solid leather roll,
Post 15/-. Prec.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 80/.
Vi •%
m
..m
A. SAUNDERS.
SADIES’ CHAIN PURSE and CARD
CASE, crocodile calf or crush mo-
rocco, pure silver mounts and lock,
Post 25/-. Pree.
Other Styles
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
ĥ
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR, solid
silver, richly embossed,
bevelled glass.
Post 35/-. Free.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH,
richly embossed,
long white bristles.
Post 10/6. Free
Other Styles,
8/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
INK STAND and PEN WIPE, highly polished
nickel mounts, crystal glass bottle and base,
Post 27/6. Free.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
2A
yvv
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, pure silver plated, richly
embossed, and ornamented, Silk Lined. Size,
4|in x 2jin.
Post 12/6. Free.
Other Styles, 15/6, 16/6, 20/, 25/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver HAIR BRUSH, CLOTH
BRUSH, and COMB, richly embossed, long
white bristles, in Solid Leather Case,
Post, 21/-. Tree.
'■'/‘■her Styles, 35/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP-
HOLDER combined, finest badger bristles, soap
fits into handle,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver SHOE LIFT, GLOVE HOOK
and BUTTON HOOK, richly embossed handles)
polished steel ends, 7in long,
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Sijver HAIR BRUSH.
“Cherub” Design, fine
silver drawn bristles.
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
-■•■ies’ Strap PURSE and CARD CASE, selected
.! leather, calf lined, tan, green, or black, pure
silver mounts and lock.
Post 15/-. Pree^
Other-Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND, pure silver plated, A 1
quality, richly embossed, fine hobnail cut crystal
glass bottles.
Post £2/10/-. Eree.
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 40/, 50/.
rr.t
1 ■
E [mi
i H
■
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S LETTER CASE and POCKET-BOOK
combined, Black Morocco Leather, Suk lined
pure silver mounts and shield.
Post 12/6. Eree.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
- , A. SAUNDERS.
Imitation Tortoiseshell or Horn COMB, full size,
solid silver mounted.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ BACK COMB, imitation Tortoiseshell, 9ct
gold mounts, securely rivetted,
Post 15/-. Pree.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
Gent.’s HAIR BRUSH,
solid silver, concave back,
finest quality bristles.
Post 17/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
ragnnHH
Ft
m
HEAD SALTS, solid
silver mounted, fine hobnail
cut crystal glass.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR, pure sil-
ver plated, richly embossed,
bevelled glass.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other Styles,
8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
s va
=5O
Gent.’s COLLAR STUD
BOX pure silver plated,
richly embossed.
Post 3/9. Pree.
Other Styles,
4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 8/6.
m
Gent.’s SHAVING CUP,
pure silver plated, on white
metal, richly embossed.
Post 20/-. Free.
Other Styles,
■ 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS. ;
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, solid silver, richly
embossed, long white bristles.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6. 8/6, 10/6.-
&
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver SEWING COMPANION,
comprising 8 articles complete,
in silklined case.
Post £2/5/-. Pree.
Other Styles, 15/6, 18/6, 20/, 30/, £2.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S. W.


AGGREGATE BALANCE-SHEET of
THE BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
30th SEPTEMBER,
1907.
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation .. £982,701 0 0
Deposits and accrued
Interest .. .. 26,056,302 1 4
£27,039,006 1 4
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (which
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit rf
Investments Fluctuation Account,
Officers’ Fidelity Guarantee and Provi-
dent Fund and the Buckland Fund) 3,254,518 4 10
Paid up Capital, bearing
6 months’
Dividend £2,000,000 0 0
3 months’
Dividend 425,400 0 0
2,425,400 0 0
Reserve Fund .. ..1,500,000 0 0
Profit and Loss .. . . 181.124 11 6
4,108,524 11 5
£34,400,048 17 7
Contingent Liabilities-
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra .. 690,261-11 4
£35,090,310 8 11
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, and Cash
Balances .. ...f
Queensland Government
Notes
Notes of other Banks ..
Money at short call in
London
Investments British
and Colonial Govern-
ment Securities
Municipal and other
Securities
Due by other Banks ..
Bills Receivable in
London and Remit-
tances in transit
B'lls Discounted, and
vances to Customers
Bank Premises
.6,869,019 18 1
167,722 0 0
29,521 0 0
1,665,000 0 0
2,344,273 3 0
152,264 2 11
64,521 2 9
2,106,090 6 10
£13,398,411
Loans and Ad-
20,311,637
690,000
13 1
4 0
0 0
£34,400,048 17 7
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit as per Contra .. 690,261 11 4
£35,090,310 811
PROFIT AND LOSS, 3Qth SEPTEMBER, 1907
Dr.
Cr.
To Rebate (at current rates) on Bills Dis-
counted not due at this due .. .. £8,843 17 0
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows :
To Dividend at the rate of 10
per cent, per annum ..£110,635 0 0
~ Augmentation of the Re-
serve Fund , 30,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward 31,645 14 5
172,280 14 5
£181,124 11 5
By Amount from last Account
~ Balance of Half-year’s Profits after pro-
vidingforßadand Doubtful Debts, Fluct-
uations in the Value of Investment Secur-
ities, reducing the Valuation of Bank
Premises, and including Recoveries
from Debts previously written oft as
Bad
£29,314 7 5
151,810 4 0
£181,124 11 5
RESERVE FUND, 30th SEPTEMBER., 1007
l)r.
Cr.
To Balance £1,530,000 0 0
(Of which £750,000 is invested in
British Government Securities, and
the balance is employed in the busi-
ness of the Bank.)
£1,530,000 0 0
FREDK, \V. UTHER \
ALFRED G. WILSON J
Auditors.
By Balance £1,500,000 0 0
~ Amount, from Profit and Loss.. .. 30,000 0 0
£1,530 000 0 0
By Balance .. ..£1,530,000 0 0
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
W. E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
w
WPMI
In the aim to be strong it is best to select helpful
food. For breakfast, the best selection is
PLASMON COCOA, which is stimulating and
1 nutritious, and PLASMON OATS, which are
v “ appetising and strengthening.
Stronger and Healthier
*
PLASMON OATS are the only oats free from husks—they are pure
nourishment.
PLASMON preparations make you stronger and healthier, because the
dietetic value is ten times greater than of ordinary cocoa and oatmeal;
the taste, too, is far more delicious.
WHAT PLASMON IS : Plasmon is the best part of the best milk, in the form of a
tasteless powder. It can be added to any food. It enriches the nutritive value tenfold
and makes all food more digestible. Plasmon is the mainstay of hea.th. Of all
Grocers.
' "V\N
TRAD* mark
ħ
h
.a a a a
THESE famous glasses
would make an ideal
gift to a sporting man.
Dol'ond's Patent Pris-
matic Binoculars are the
finest possible examples
of the British Optical
Industry, and although
they embody many im-
provements, they are
less costly than Conti-
nental makes.
They are damp and dust
proof, and can be
cleaned inside in the
quickest and easiest
manner imaginable.
They possess great
depth of focus, and a
surprisingly clear defi-
nition —are very rigid,
and are made of the
finest possible materials.
• I
mm
sa
:
»Ei@
mM
'.V :
m
PRICE - £7.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FREE.
OSBORN & JERDAN LTD.,
Agents for Dollond’s, Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government.
Consulting' Opticians and Spedlacle Makers,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
I &
« 0
.3
IN the time of the Arabian Nights the chief form of amusement was
telling stories. They had no books. Professional story-tellers went
around and amused everybody who was able to pay. This idea
of being amused is as old as the human race. “Give us something
to entertain us,” has been the constant cry. The answer in this day
and age is the Edison Phonograph.
Everyone can have his own story-teller, his own songster, his own
band-master, right in his own home. The man who “ kept a poet
is not in it with the man who keeps an Edison Phonograph.
Instal a genuine Edison Phonograph in your home this Christmas.
No other gift gives such lasting pleasure. Everybody likes it,
from baby to grandmother.
No skill is required to reproduce perfectly brilliant band music,
the finest vocal solos, duets and quartettes, the funniest character
songs and vaudeville skits.
THE EDISON PHONOGRAPH
(Buy one for Christmas)
provides more fun and music than any other automatic entertainer—
yet is within the reach of all. Hear it at your nearest dealers before
deciding on any Christmas present.
IT SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
If you write 'us we will send you a budget of interesting litera-
ture—post free.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia. Ltd.,
Dept. “B,” 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
RETAILERS!
YOU
GAN
EARN ss. PER HOUR
in your leisure time
by using . . »
ECKERSLEYS
Aerated
Water
Machines
i m
m
V/fA
(o/j:
X
Aerated
Waters
Cost only
4 d.
per dozen
with these
Machines.
PRICES
from
£lB
and
upwards .
A GENTS —
Queensland t ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane*
W.A.: WM* SANDOVER & CO., PERTH*
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
MELBOURNE.


Amusements.
s
YDNEY TOWN
MELBA
HALL.
MELBA
TWO CONCERTS ONLY.
TUESDAY, 10th DECEMBER, 1907
SATURDAY, 14th DECEMBER, 1907
UNA BOURNE
ANDREW BLACK
JOHN LEMMONE
BRYCE CARTER
HAROLD WHITTLE
,T. EDWARD SYKES
PRICES—£I Is., 10s. 6d. Reserved; ss. Unreserved.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
John Lkmmonk,
H. N. South well,
J- Managers.
MADAME
AMT SHERWIN
AMY SHERWIN
AMY SHERWIN
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 18th, 1907.
PLAN AT PALING'S, 9th DECEMBER.
J. Edward Sykes.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS,
Interpreted bv J. 0. Williamson’s NEW DRAMATIC
COMPANY, including 1 Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON
and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH.
SAT. NEXT, DECEMBER 7, JOHN GLAYDE’S HONOR.
PRICES AS USUAL. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
J. C. Williamson’s NEW MUSICAL COMEDY CO.
in the New and Original Musical Play, entitled,
LADY MADCAP.
A BRILLIANT PERFORMANCE.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietor and Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND,
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d.—To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
RITERION THEATRE, SYD N E Y
Lessee : Mr. Frank Jlusgrovk.
Sub-Lessee and Manager, Mr. William Anderson.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION.
THE LAND OP GOLD.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 7, EAST LYNNE.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 11, CAMILLE.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
pALACi THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY,
1 ’ DECEMBER 14, 16, 17,
Elaborate Revival of Isaac Pocock’s Dramatisation c f
Sir Walter Scott’s Famous Novel,
DOB DOY,
with a Cast of Unequalled Amateur Strength Under-
taken the Highland Society and Sydney Muffs.
Full Operatic Orchestra and Chorus of 40 Voices, under
the baton of Mr. E. Russell.
Entirely New Scenery Specially Painted by W. C.
Wall and Assistants.
PRICES—3s., 25., Is. Plan at Paling’s.
J. CURRIE ELLES, Hon. Sec.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 7, and EVERY
EVENING at 8.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
Re-Opening of the Pre-Eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES <« The Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6cl. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
I V O LI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Continued Success of all our Great Artists —
LA SYLPHE, this Artiste stands alone as pre-eminent
among great dancers.
TOM DAWSON, Everybody’s Favorite Eccentric Comedian
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicians.
ARTHUR CROXON, Comedian and Mimic.
MDLLE. RHODESIA, Society Lady Juggler.
Mr. CLARENCE TISDALE. ERNEST PITCHER.
JACK RUSSELL and VIC. ST. JOHN.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LA MARTINE, Eccentric Dancer, Baton Spinner, Vocalist.
THE MOLASSOS, Cyclonic Dancers.
THOS. E. FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HAYMAN & FRANKLIN, Comedy Artists.
RAY & CALDEN, Comedy Sketch Artists.
LOTTIE KAY, Yorkshire Soprano.
PRICE <& REVOST, Comedy Acrobats.
MOVING PICTURES—Grand Prix Motor Race.
Plan at Allan’s. 43* PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
LAST NINE NIGHTS of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in the Reigning
London Gaiety Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
STILL DRAWING CROWDED HOUSES.
Messrs. Meynell and Gunn’s New and Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH,
—in—
THE MIDNIGHT WEDDING.
Prices—3/*, 2/-, 1/-. Plan at Allan’s.
AUSTRAL
Melbourne Cricket Ground. December 7 and 14, 1907.
NOVELTY MAMMOTH FLIGHT,
5000 Homing Birds.
Ground, 1/-; Stand, 2/6. ROBT. McCULLOCH, Sec.
1
m
A BOWLING GREEN.
Mountain-Climbing being too arduous for
some older folk, Bowls on a splendid
Green are provided at the “ HYDRO-
MAJESTIC.” And many other out-door
pastimes such as Golf, Tennis, Croquet,
Quoits, &c., obviate any chance of ever passing a dull
moment during your stay at Medeow
Never fear the charges—they are no higher than the resorts
which do not look after your enjoyment half so well. • . .
’Plione 4349, or write to
HYDRO-MAJESTIC, MEDLOW BATH, N.S.W.
QRAPH -O-Phone Romp
*
Latest
Cylinder
and Disc.
Catalogue
< B”
Free on
Application.
THE COLUMBIA GRAPH-o-Phcne
Is a Never-Ending- Source of Amusement
FOR THE YOUNG FOLK.
GET
THEM
ONE
FOR
XMAS.
They will
be De-
lighted.
Columbia Phonograph
Co., Qen’l,
255 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Largest Talking Machine
Manufacturers in the
World.
XMAS NOVELTIES FOR OLD & YOUNG.
■TV
:
ft
Electrical Goods, Conjuring Tricks,
• Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
Quite Shocking, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH —A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
pretty picture, and turns the button in the
confident expectation of seeing something
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,'
cannot get out of order, and can be carried
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price pogt free anywhere for 1/6.
We are making up a Special Xmas Parcel
of Novelties, and can guarantee everj'
article to give satisfaction. It will help to
enliven th ■ Xmas holidays, and also make
a most acceptable present for one of your
friends. Xmas Parcel of Novelties, con-
taining the Jokqr’s Cigar Case, 1/2; the
Joker’s Surprise Treasure Box, 9d. ; the
Joker’s Squirt Camera, Bd. ; the Joker’s
Squirt Phonograph, 1/2 ; Bedelia’s Legs
Surprise Ball, 1/-; Novelty Tongue Ball,
1/2; the Joker’s Clockwork Mouse, lOd. ;
the Tumbo Surprise Tobacco Pouch, 2/- ;
the Latest Puzzle Pocket Knife, 2/-; the
Latest Puzzle Purse, 2/- ; the Joker’s Love
Bond, 4d. ; the Joker’s Spray Water Pistol,
1/6; the Joker’s Mechanical Wild Snake,
1/-; the Perplexing Perplexity Piizzle, Sd. ;
the Wizard of the Norths, changeable pack
of cards, Bd. ; the Joker’s Trick Match Box,
7d. ; the Wizard Puzzle Match Box, lOd. ;
Novelty Roller Blind lk>st Cards, two pat-
terns, 9d. ; Novelty Beer Drinking Post Cards,
two patterns, 9d. ; Joker’s False Nose, sd.
This Splendid Assortment of Novelties and Puzzles posted to any address free on
receipt of £l. Any number of articles from above list may also be selected,
and will be forwarded, post free, at prices quoted above.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
h
ĥ
The Searchlight
Electric Pocket
Lamp.
This Electric Pocket
Lamp is guaranteed
in perfect order,
throwing a dazzling
bright light. Though
so cheap, it is of the
best quality. By
pressing the button
the light is instantly
available. It con-
tains its own bat-
tery, and every lamp
is tested before for-
warding. Useful for
many ‘ purposes.
Strongly-made nic-
kel case, fitted with
bull’s-eye magnifier,
and finished in imi-
tat i o n crocodile
leather. Price, only
2/6, posted free to
any address in Aus-
tralasia. Extra bat-
teries for lamp,
which can be re-
charged when ex-
hausted by adding
hoc water. Price
1/3, post free any-
where.
read Depct: 710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney. No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street,
Sydney. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
“Alb.”: Rev. J. Conraee, S.J., Jesuit
Provincial (that is to say, Inspector-General) for
Ireland and Australia, is on this continent. He
has ended in South Australia and
Victoria* and is in N.S. W. as I write. It is inter-
esting to speculate on what he is about. There is
an impression that the Jesuits may be removed as
pastors, but will remain as teachers. There is as
much animosity against the Jesuits in the R. 0.
Church as outside. Archbishop Goold gave them
an opening in Melbourne somewhere about 1800,
after the diocese had been in existence 13 years.
They were astonishingly successful, in the persons
of Father Dalton and Father Moore. Dalton
built the great church of St. Ignatius in Rich-
mond, while Moore built the fine one of
the Immaculate Conception, at Mike Lynch’s
Grace Park,. Hawthorn. Such works shone
with lustre in the feeble time of Goold.
But it was otherwise when the commanding
Archbishop Carr came along in 1887. He could
beat any Jesuit for church-building with his
opportunities. The Jesuits only accomplished
one other great enterprise, St. Xavier’s College,
Hawthorn. Father Dalton went to Sydney,
where he tuned affairs up by building Riverview
College. The Jesuits don t work with other
priests. It will be observed that they have their
establishments to themselves. Consequently,
they are virtually outside the jurisdiction of
prelates like Cardinal Moran and Archbishop
Carr, and only accountable to their General in
Rome (now General Wernz). This is a continual
thorn to a masterful man like Archbishop Carr.
Two of his principal churches, St. Ignatius and
the Immaculate, are beyond his control. He is
very Skilful in shifting priests about, round pegs
for round holes, but nob a Jesuit can he touch.
They stick together like wax. It stands to
reason that there is more or less incompetence,
especially as men grow older. Father Conmee
is splitting differences somehow.
“Edy”: With me, necessity alone is the
mother of intervention. The other day, I added to
my long list of striking examples of the folly of
taking part in other people’s troubles. There was
a stolid circle of tired men and phlegmatic women
who looked as if they had been hastily summoned
from sordid, domestic duties, standing on the
suburban roadside. Inside the circle, one man
was holding another down. The top man had a
black eye, and his shirt was in strips; his nose
bled freely on to the man below. The under man
was being held down without ceremony,
his nose was pushed violently into the
dust, he was 'biting the public estate.
Obviously, the top man’s one ambition in life was
to keep the other fellow down. Obviously, too,
it was a worthy cause. But presently a large man
off a fish cart pushed through the ring and assumed
command. “Ga-a-art, le’ ther man up,” he said.
Fish-o was a fine fellow, with a splendid sense of
English justice. “Be ’anged fi do,” replied the
man on top. “Let ’im up ! ” snorted Fish-o, and
he spanked the other off his victim. Then the
under man got to work again. He was on
his feet in half-a-second, and there was
something doing. Fish-o represented the dis-
turbed centre. The mischief revolved round
him like a pack of hounds round a hapless
cat. The ungracious wretch he had just rescued
was dealing with Fish-o, biting, kicking, clawing,
gouging, and tearing hair. Before the blessed
peacemaker could summon up his resources, he
was reduced to the condition of a blasted and
blighted object. After a terrible fight, very trying
to a fat man, Fish-o got the disturbing element
down again, and sat on him, and now it was his
turn to push the fanatic’s nose into the dust, and
hold it there with the determination of an anxious
man convinced that dear life depended on his
maintaining existing conditions. The driver of a
brewer’s lorry was the next to push in. He insisted
on British fair play, and pulled Fish-o off. Fish-o
fled to his cart while the lorry driver fought his
hand, and five minutes later the lorryman was
holding the nose of the insurrectionist hard against
the macadam, and praying for brighter days.
For half-an-hour the lorry driver held the zealot
firmly to the highway, and then five policemen
and a van removed the violent maniac to an
adjacent cell. The lorry driver retired hurt.
Possibly he got the sack for dilatory conduct in
the pursuit of his duty. Moral: Man was born
to trouble, but he needn’t get down to pick up the
other fellow’s inheritance.
The old idea of the superiority of imported foot-
ware is now proved to be a fallacy, and it is recognised
that the locally-made boot or shoe, manufactured from
the best of Australian leather by skilled labor, is in every
way equal, if not superior, to the imported in both wear
and appearance. His Excellency Lord Northcote has
recognised this, and has appointed Mr. VV. Leeming, pro-
prietor of Leeming’s Boot Stores, 109 Swanston-street,
Melbourne, as his bootmaker.*
Dear B.—Kindly hurry up your trans-
continental railway, and bring your south-eastern
seaboard a week or two nearer white civilisation.
After three trips to and from Australia I am
satisfied that your alleged mail service is a
proposition in scrap heaps. The fourteen-knot
crawl —the present travelling rate of the sub-
sidised steamers —is worthy of the old South Sea
whalers of fifty years ago. In 1885, as a boy, I
made my first trip round the (Jape of Good Hope
to Australia, in the s.s. Aberdeen, Captain Barclay
in command. Time of journey, about seven weeks.
Twenty-two years later, on an alleged modern liner,
geared and installed with “racing’’ engines, I
performed the journey to London, via the Red
Sea—i n s ix weeks. The need for frantic haste in
the matter of sea-travel may not be apparent
to the Australian, removed as he is from the whirl
and fight of modern speed competition. But once
in Europe, the man from the South discovers
that his country is situated somewhere near
Wilkes Land, in the Antarctic regions. And
the European farmer grasps this fact the
moment he enters one of our emigration offices.
“ Six weeks to get there! ” says he. “ Six hells ! ”
I have spoken to dozens of well-to-do English
farmers on the question of emigration ; I have
attended several lectures given by the representa-
tives of the N.S.W. Agricultural Department,
and while many of the listeners were enthusiastic
about Australia as a wool and wheat growing
country, they take their money and their large
families to the shipping office that will put them
on an iceberg or a frost-bound forest within seven
or eight days. The big Liverpool shipping com-
panies are teaching the agriculturist the art of
hurrying up. And he hurries—over ice-hum-
mocks and Indian reservations, where the scalp still
dries in the wigwam, and where frost bites harder
than our Gulf mosquitoes. Writer is unacquainted
with the Commonwealth’s proposed new time-
service. He is certain, however, that efforts will
be made to improve on the old system by a few
hours only. With a transcontinental railway and
a Lusitania speed-rate, Australia could be reached
comfortably within three weeks. The Canadian
and U. 3. liners that fail to put up an 18-knot
service are soon relegated to the cattle-carrying
trade. Australia is content with a 14-knot slouch,
and Australia has Jar more need to worry about
time and space than the U. 9. or even Canada.—
Albert Dorrington.


w
m
m
If you are
thirsty
try a
glass
of
*
/
f
W
LIME
JUICE.
“ MONTSERRAT”
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated liities, and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS-
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
Tbe Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuriee
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENTj
In uae since ISM.
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or writs
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
m
-vv
ss
D ET
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
Feed Your Scalp
That’s what you must do in order
to have abundant, luxuriant hair. Feed
your scalp; build it up the same as
you build up your body when it is run
down. Before your hair can grow, it
mast have something to grow out of;
something which will supply it with
life and vitality. There is only one
way of doing this; of feeding your
scalp—that way is Barry’s Tri-coph-
erous.
What Tri-coph-erous Does
Tri-coph-erous grows hair, (except
in cases of chronic baldness which is
incurable) cures dandruff and itching
scalp and stops falling hair. It is able •
to do this because it is compounded
from a regular doctor’s prescription '
which was first used in the private
practice of a celebrated physician, who
realizing his success decided to market *
i t in a commercial way. Barry’s
Tri-coph-erous attacks the disease of
baldness in the only way which com-
mon sense suggests. It removes the
cause. By building up and rejuvena-
ting the run-down scalp it is able to
succeed where others fail. Remem-
ber that Barry’s Tri-coph-erous was
established in 1801, over one hundred •
years ago. It is the only hair remedy
which was sold then and is sold! to-'
day. An article which has enjoyed
the “Good Will” of the people for
over a hundred years must have merit, j
«
•‘Just as Good**
Beware of the clever salesman with "
his “Just as Good” story. The suc-
cess of Barry’s Tri-coph-erous ha s >
made many imitators and substitutors
who would rob it of its “Good Will”
with the public. A clerk who tries to
[HI
Aim
sell you something other than that for
which you ask, only does so because he
makes more money. Insist upon getting
Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. This trade
mark is across the end of every wrapper.
Trademark
Note the name Barclay & Co.
When you ahum poo your hair, you
should take great care iu selecting the
soap, It c liter’s Hoap is especially good
for shampooing because it is absolutely
pure and makes an abundant, creamy
lather. At your Chemist’s.
MILLER’S
FREE GIFT,
OSTRICH PLUMES.
, I A - S advertisement, one fashionable Hat Pin, with large
ea ,in ack or fancy colors, will be given away free to every
one ordering feathers This Month, Mention this, paper.
If you want fine feathers- at reasonable prices, Miller’s
Feather Shop is the place to buy, as our large purchases of Raw
Material enable us to sell our goods at lower prices than other shops.
a tor 6/
Length
9 inches.
3/-
Each
10 In. longr,
The
Buach
3/-
MILLER
m
V
51 Length
/ 12 inches;
5/-
The Bunch,
Length, 9 inches.
These Feathers can be supplied in BlacK and Cream, or any Fashionable Color.
Length, 13J inches
Length, 15 inches.
m
iMIV
ER’S*
&
m
21/-
Length
18 Inches.
'M
!• M
Fox Tail Plumes;
15/-
Length
IS inchest-
CH
XS.
21/-
Necklets
in Real
Ostrich.
Feathers Post Free Anywhere. Send Postal Notes. Write for Illustrated Catalogues.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Corner BOURKE & SWANSTON STREETS, MELBOURNE.
" 1 do not hesitate to say it is the best made
pift is the kingdom. Dr. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
S A FAMILY FOR A CENTURY. Invaluable to every Mother of a family.


ħ
h
ĥ
Brownie No. 1. Pictures.
Price 6/6. Postage 6d.
Brownie No. 2. 2% x
Price 13/6. Postage 9d.
Folding Brownie No. 2. 3 % x
Price 28/- Postage 9d.
Folding Brownie No. 3. x 3X in -
Price £2 12s. Postage Is.
Good to Look At.
Good to Use.
Good for Presents.
No. 3 F.P.K. Pictures 4X x 3%' in -
Price £5. Postage 1/3.
No. 3A (Post Card). x 3X in *
Price £6. Postage 1/3.
ħ
No. 0 F.P.K. Pictures.
Price £l/15/6. Postage 9d.
No. 1 F.P.K. 2% x 3X in '
Price £2/19/6. Postage 9d.
No. 2 F.P.K. y/ 2 x 2}4'm.
Price £4/8/6. . Postage 1/-
EVERYTHING (including
development) done in DAY-
LIGHT when using Kodaks.
No Dark Room necessary.
Panoram Kodak No. 1. 7x 2%'m.
Price £3/10/= Postage l/=
Panoram Kodak No. 4. 12 x sy&'m-
Price £6/5/- Postage 1/9.
Developing Tanks. Brownie, 14/6.
3l/6. sin., £2.
... SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS lor KODAK LIMITED ...
375 & 377 OrEbRQE STREET, SYDNEY “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane Ruthven Street, Toowoomba
HOWTO
VIGOROUS
etnicr n.
r
SJ WI\
What is health ? To this the answer is : A perfect structure of all the organs of
digestion and elimination, with a perfect performance of all their functions. Health
and happiness are possessions we all desire to obtain and retain. You cannot be
healthy with a sluggish liver or inactive kidneys; sometimes these organs get throw i
out of action on account of improper food or drink, sometimes from a fau y
metabolism. Nature then requires assistance, and it is of paramount importan
that the right aid should be employed in dealing with these delicate pieces of
mechanism. It has been known from time immemorial that certain European spas
which have acquired world-renowned fame on account of their possessing remedial
‘ and health-giving properties, form a natural stimulant for the liver and act as a
cleansing agent for the kidneys. The health-giving and remedial properties of these
famous spas are now incorporated in Kutnow’s Powder which is universally
acknowledged by the most eminent physicians to be a most perfect remedy tor al
liver, kidney, stomach and bowel disorders.
TAKE KUTNOW’S POWDER
The INFALLIBLE REMEDY.
HEfl LTH
- > 'V
.A #
l«M
- KUTNOWS
:::■ N POWOCiR
The principal organs concerned in effecting the separation of deleterious substances from the blood are the
liver kidneys and bowelsXSo long as these organs work efficiently so long may the owner count on health and
strength. But wo know that a large percentage of mankind find it very difficult to keep the digestive and excretory
organs in perfect working order. Stripped of these health-producing faculties, they are left miserable, anxious moita s
simply worrying through a bald and barren existence. All fear of dyspepsia,
poisoning casTbe avoided°by Timply adopting the remedy which Prof. Lawson Tait, M.D., so highly recommended-- KUTNOW’S POWDER”
GENERAL DUNSTERVILLE
WRITES :
“The Avenue, Upper Norwood, 29th May, 1905.
“Dear Sirs,—l began to use Kutnow’s Powder about
a fortnight ago, and, finding it both palatable and effica-
cious, I have procured a bottle of the regulation size, and
mean to have soine always by me. I visit Heidelberg
every year and am glad to find that my friend Dr.
Glassner, Hof-Apotheker there, stocks it.
“ Yours faithfully,
“L. DUNSTERVILLE, Lieut.-General.”
HOW TO GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Gemline and Original Kutnow’s Powder
can be had of all conscientious Chemists
throughout the World. See that the fac-simile
signature,- “ S. Kutnow & Co., Lid.,” and the registered
trade mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Depr Leap,” are on the
carton and bottle. You will then avoid fraud and know
HOW TO GET GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER.
REV. E. R. GIBBENS
WRITES :
“Wesleyan Methodist Church, Tonbridge,
“ 13th October, 1906.
“ Gentlemen, —For some weeks I have been using
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I have derived great
benefit Bilious trouble has disappeared and rheumatic
pains have been entirely removed. I can very confidently
recommend this preparation.
“I am, yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) E. R. GIBBENS.”
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO.. LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C.


WDIUITS
(nins
Of Skin, Hands, and Hair
Preserved by
V/
For preserving, purifying, and
beautifying the skin, for cleans*
ing the scalp of crusts, scales,
and dandruff, and stopping of
falling hair, for softening,
ing, and soothing red, rough,
and sore hands, for baby rashes,
itchings, and chafings, for san-
ative, antiseptic cleansing, as
well as for the toilet, bath, and
nursery, Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment are priceless.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 5 Rue de la Paix: Austra-
lia, R. Towns «fc Co., Sydney: India, B. K. Paul, Cal-
cutta: China, Hong Kong Drug Co.: Japan, Maruya,
Ltd.. Tokyo; South Africa, Lennon, Ltd,-, Cape Town,
etc.: U. S. A. Potter Drug & Chem, Corp., Sole
Boston. narPost-free, 48 pp. Cuticura
The Bushman
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
—POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
Lever
14/6.
J | r HIS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas, We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
Watch
14/6.
DUNKUNG, m JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURXE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
j
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Next Annual Distribution of Surplus,
as at 31st DECEMBER, 1907.
Every Participating: Policy taken out previous
to the CLOSE OF THIS YEAR will share in
the profits to be then divided.
Over £564,000 distributed in Cash Bonuses for the year 1906, representing considerably
more than a third of the total premiums received during the year. Bonuses Declared by This Society Larger Than
those of any other Life Office. TOTAL CASH BONUSES divided to end of 1906, £12,888,262.
Now is the time to effect an assurance, or a further assurance, on your life in order to reap the benefit of this year’s
Bonus. Policies can be secured for any sum up to £lO,OOO. Write at once for full particulars to the Head Office :
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C. ; The Hon. F. E. Wincheombe, M.L.O. ; James Burns, Esq. ; James O.
Fairfax, Esq. Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., General Manager and Actuary.
Sydney, 21st November, 1907. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
“4 Teeth
teething t f ou I 'i >,^ d^r oss SCOTT’S
came weak, i him from the
Emulsion improved n sleep
£SF I M,,>A He H“A n »» S .
THE REASON WHY
Always get the
Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the Fishman.
his teeth came
easily- got the
nourishment he
needed from the fine
Lofoten c °d hver oil
used in SCOT. I t>,
the mineral salts in
SCOTT’S gave him
the material for
straight, strong,
white teeth; and he
kept SCOTT’ S down
because the unique
SCOTT process ot
manufacture makes
these ingredients
perfectly digestible.
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
of all chemists and
Dealers in Medicine
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 C
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual urice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Pair Trial given with-every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ĥ
Lady s Smart Glace
Oxford Kid Shoe,
18/6.
One of the finest shoes at present on the
market. For comfort in walking it is un-
equalled, and in appearance extremely
stylish. Fitted with the up-to-date Cuban
heel, and three-quarters goloshed, its price
is only 18/6. Postage in Victoria 9d. extra ;
to any other State 1/-
W. LEEMING,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 1 and 3 Errol Street, North
Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
Bootmaker to His Excellency the Governor-General.
v '- »\j\'
I - A A, *W%M
J
The truth of the matter is-THIS !
FREE-ON-TRIAL.
To every MINE MANAGER or paint user in Australia, we
are prepared to send a Barrel of our “ Arco Elastic Carbon
Paint ” on trial, FREE OF ANY COST, ■for 30 days.
Take Ten Gallons out of the Barrel and apply it to any
Metal or Wood surface, and if our paint does not do
exactly as we claim, you can send the paint back to us,
and we will pay all charges, and make no charge for
the Ten Gallons used.
This offer is made to demonstrate to all those who
have not used our “Arco Elastic Carbon Paint 1 ' that it
will not Crack, Scale or Blister. Used on Metal it con-
tracts and expands with the painted surface under all
atmospheric changes.
It is not affected by acids, alkalies or sulphurous
gases. It is impervious to water and effectually with-
stands the severest action of the elements. It is fireproof
and guaranteed to last for at least Five Years.
Manufactured by
iohe ATLANTIC REFINING CO.,
CLEVELAND, OHIO. U.S.A.
Wholesale Agents :
Dalgety and Go., Ltd., Sydney, Brisbane, and Adelaide.
Tasmanian Woolgrowers’ Agency Co., Launceston.
W. D. Moore and Co., and Harris, Scarfe and Co., Fremantle.
Head Office: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH. DRINK ONLY —.*
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
The Inky Way.
“F.H.R.”: Recently a writer on the “Red Page”
advised the newchuni story-writer to, above all things,
“light his pipe.” Now, I’m a man and a non-smoker,
but I’m no story-writer—worse luck. I’d buy a pipe and
a plug. though, if I thought it would make me write ;
but, being of Scotch descent, I’d like to know before
going to such expense. At present I have my doubts.
“G. B. Lancaster,” I believe, is a woman. Does she smoke ?
If so, does she find any ideas that way ? I’d like to have
Roderic Quinn’s, Alf Brasch’s and Dyson’s ideas about it.
The only time I really feel like writing is when it’s raining
heavily ; and sub-editors can thank their stars that I live
in a droughty part.
* * * *
The linotypes of Maoriland Dominion, the squattah’s
new organ, do something to brighten up a dull sheet. For
instance:—“ Mr. Maxwell, the caretaker of the forest,
possesses hens which lay all the year round bacon of the
most nourishing description and milk of the richest
quality.” If the caretaker of the forest could only cross
them with something that would drop into the nest an
occasional million to reduce the national debt, Maori-
land’s future would be assured.
• » * *
Australia’s most knowledgable taxidermist is an inky
wayfarer— G. A. Heartland, of Melbourne Age publishing
staff. A little while ago he sold his famous collection of
Australian birds’ eggs, numbering over 600 varieties, to
Malcolm M’Eaeharn. At his home near Coburg he has a
duplicate collection, and an almost equally complete one of
stuffed indigenous birds and reptiles. Heartland puts in
his spare time lecturing to literary clubs and instructing
the younger members of the Vic. Naturalists’ Association
in the art of taxidermy.
» » * *
The Australian Star has its own ideas about things.
For instance (U/11/’07):
LATEST SPORTING
TERRIBLE TRAM ACCIDENT
EXPLOSION OF A BOILER
TWO MEN KILLED AND SEVERAL INJURED
A standing heading, “ Murder and Other Amusements,”
will probably follow.
• * * *
Adelaide Register had to do some waiting; but the
chance came at last. Years ago the rival Advertiser
printed a Register leader alongside one from a bygone
English paper, and there wasn’t as much difference
betvveen the two as you could spread out on a butter-
man’s conscience. Now the Register smacks its withered
old lips as it prints, in the same sort of parallel columns,
the Advertiser’s latest “dramatic criticisms ” along with
extracts from Paunch, and Table Talk and other papers.
* * * *
“E.D.” : Noting Mr. Bent’s outburst about the cussed-
ness of papers that take Government advertisements and
abuse the Government, reminds me that 1 onceran an intem-
perate weekly. In pursuance of the sacred duty I owed
the public, I attacked a stout councillor for his attitude
in supporting a reduction of a penny an hour from the
stipends of street sweepers, or something of the kind.
The great man called on me the day after, with fire in his
eye and a loaded walking-stick in his hand. He stormed
for ten minutes, and almost beat the publishing counter
to splinters in his virtuous wrath. “ Attack me 1” he
yelled in conclusion. “ Attack me 1 I’ll show you where
your living comes from 1 Take my son’s advertisement
out of your wretched rag ! Out with it 1 Out with it 1 ”
He repeated “ Out with it 1 ” five times as if he expected
me to set to work and root the advt. out of every copy.
When I looked up the advt. in question it was a one-line
item about hair-wash, worth 6d. a week, and was given
on the express condition that the office “ took it out” in
hair-cuts or shaves.
*<• * •
This month an Inky Wayite—Henri Rochefort, editor
of L’lntransigeant —who has fought more duels than any
other member of the profession, retires for good. Roche-
fort virulently attacked in his newspaper Gambetta,
Oonstans, Jules Ferry, and pretty well every other pro-
minent French politician of the last 30 years, and ex-
changed shots or sword-thrusts with most of them.
* « * *
“Castro” (London): Presented myself to editor of
Strand Magazine t’other day, and allowed him to read a
couple of Australian yarns. He liked them, and offered
me £3 for the pair, 8000 words in all. And this
after a little booming of my work by several big London
papers. At the Press Club, Wine Office Court, Fleet-street,
I was introduced to half-a-dozen bull-necked Australian
writers, full to the lips with eahon-ranche matter, “and
our denied lariat-swinging whelps who whoop along the
valley of the Diamantina on their bronchos.” The literary
agents practically run the magazines. Pett Ridge, Barry
Pain, Hewlett, Percival Gibbon, “Napoleon” Bailey,
and scores of others are all in their hands. And the up-to-
date London editor won’t edit your screed ; it has to be
ready for print. No matter how dull the article or story,
it must have a finished appearance. If you are as bright
as Voltaire, original as Heine, your MS. is returned if it
lacks polish. There’s no market for rough diamonds ;
but there’s an unlimited field for well-faced blue metal.
* * * *
“ 10.2.4.”: Re Bulletin pars (“ F.M.” 5/8/’O7 et alia),
dealing with the troubles of the backblocks editor. I
ran a daily in a rather important town ofN.S.W. once,
and got my share. What got me down and in-
duced nerve crises o’ nights was the casual caller.
The lights of a newspaper office draw the country
drunk like magnets, and the same applies to the
peripatetic village idiot. Was reading proofs one Friday
night: time, 11.30. There came a thundering on the
rickety stairs outside, and presently a large aggressive
man entered. He advanced trailing in his wake an
aroma as of some mighty and recently-deserted brewery.
In his hand he held a small bound volume. “Ami
addressing the Editor ” ? he asked with inebriate courtesy.
I said “Yes.” “I have yere,” he explained, “a book of
my poems for review.” I tried to wave him away, but
he was insistent, and drew a chair near mine. “ These
poems,” he said impressively, “ will create a stir.
Pipe the moniker on the front page.” I piped, but it
conveyed nothing to me. He seemed - disappointed. “Con
over this little sonnet kindly, and give me your judg-
ment on it.” It was headed, “Lines Written on Com-
pleting my Fifth Year of Penal Servitude ’’—which was
quite the most notable thing about it. Before I could
say anything by way of criticism, he had turned over
three or four pages, and spread the book open before me
again at some verses entitled “ My Tenth Year’s Hard, or
A Sufferer’s Plaint.” I started violently, but thought it
better to humor him, and so read the stuff, which struck
me as being plainly written with an inner knowledge,
whatever its literary demerits. I murmured something
of the sort, and was immediately referred to what my
visitor held to be-bus masterpiece. I only read the title,
to wit, “Emotions experienced by me on being
sentenced to Death,” and then rose alertly and
sped downstairs. One of the comps got him into
the street. He was quite sane, as it turned
out, and unpleasantly genuine—a reprieved murderer,
in fact, who had been let out after serving 12 years.
About half-an-hour later, the advance agent of a travel-
ling theatrical co. arrived, and negotiated a violent fit of
delirium tremens in an empty room on the other side of
the passage. It took 20 minutes to dislodge tjiis reveller,
and then the undertaker hurried in, fresh from a “ case ”
at the hospital, sizzling over with his interminable and
irremediable grievance about the printing of his ad., and
reeking hideously of oil of lavender and other death-
suggestive medicaments. And when he had gone I fell-to
once more on my proofs.
* * * *
One of the best inky billets outside America is the
editorship of Allahabad Pioneer (India), which carries, or
used to carry, a screw of £2OOO a year with quarters. A
military man generally fills the chair. The Pioneer is
unlike any other daily this writer knows of, being in the
form of a weekly, say like The Bulletin. It varies in bulk
from 26 to 32 pages, and no military man is seen early at
his club without his Pioneer, which, by the way, is a gold
mine to the proprietary.
* * * *
The proprietor of a Gippsland rag took on himself
the reporting of the local races. When he returned
he passed over his book so that the editor might write
up the meeting, and went out. His notes on the first
four races were capable of being translated by an editor
who was able to bind up the wounds in the King’s Eng-
lish, but the notes on the pony race, as far as decipher-
able, were these simple but eloquent remarks : “ Damned
awful good lot of people here, but course faces wrong
way, too much sun on me head.”


SULPHUR
BITTERS
Ladies:—
The Secret
Of a
Fair Face
Is a
Beautiful
Skin.
Sulphur Bitters
Will give you
A lovely
Complexion^
&
t
HI
<5?.
&
£w/)
The (gbp) is THE Pipe
That does r\ot crack or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KELP IT
Wholesdle Depot
for Austro Id si a,
231 Clarence S h . Sydney.
BEST
FLAT
SHAPE
Don’t Lubricate
your bowels with castor oil, gly-
cerine, or other oily laxatives that
let the matter slide through. This
makes them more lazy until finally
you have to lubricate them
regularly. Lubrication does not
cure. It relieves for a while only
then you find yourself compelled
to keep on dosing yourself with-
out getting results. Adopt nature’s
way —exercise. That’s the only
sure way of curing constipation
and its allied troubles. Exercise
your bowel muscles with Reuter’s
Little Pills. They start the
digestive juices flowing. They set
the hundreds of cells inside your
bowels to work absorbing nourish-
ment which builds you up and
makes you well.
Reuter's Soap cures skin troubles
w
(jJrREMEI^
iKuns
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Cun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Established 1877.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
MOTOR GARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY SIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables Riseuttaiso, Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W. , . .
Australian reference —E. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randvuck,
Sydney, N.S.VV.
VIGOROUS STRENGTH
WITHOUT DRUOS!
J
kg
Every man who is weak and failing? knows that there should be
“someiting” that will restore that “old-time vigor” to his body. He has in-
variably tried all kinds of medicine and found them a total failure. He
finds himself worse instead of better. ' . If you have been paying money to
doctors and taking nasty medicines for years, and have derived no benefit
from it all, do you not think it is time to stop ? . . Twenty years
experience with Drugs and Electricity has confirmed us in the know-
ledge that Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will
replace and renew lost energy and vitality, and that our appliance is
the only practical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients tell us that medicines failed
to GUPe them, and that Electricity as given by
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC REIT
did cure them after they had tried everything else and Had given up Hope. It is
the grandest invention of the age for weak people. ... No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever regret
giving it a fair trial, It has special attachments for men and women, and is within the reach, of all. The price
is as low as £ 1 in many cases. We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of home treatment
in Australasia. Our Belt is the standard. . . . It is a quick and certain remedy for all cases of Debility,
WeaKness of all kinds, Nervousness, Backache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vari-
cocele, Indigestion, Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and Bowel Troubles.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK f which
-very man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
„o help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
j.iKe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
‘ Jos™;«. MBsowit Office Hours— 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The MCLAUGHLIN CO,,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name ••••
Address . . • • • •••,•<•
3
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
“ For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN,Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M‘CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sale by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price,'l/6. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally a
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd,


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies A ct, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,289 5 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59.000 0 0
Interminable ueposit Stock ..3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial ||)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hr ad Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wades :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
™- gank nf |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of [|eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
FAST TERMS.
WE
&
#
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT-S.A7V.
d|ontdepieteO.^|.Co.,Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssoi’, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL r A ID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directris :F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman :R. Murray
Smith E-,q.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon j. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Bust book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
SUpplng.
IST. ID. 31a.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. 17th DECEMBER.
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. 14th JANUARY, 1008.
MANILA 11th FEBRUARY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LI 31TTK1>. “
Capital Paid-up .. £467,581 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FcND(lnvested in Government Stoop) 69,000 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. '
Gen. Manager, Edwii. D. Bay. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
■ SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
fDAMASCUS
*MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
H. A. Schleinan ..
A. Doug-las, 11.N.R.
A. Simpson
Noon, Dec. 6
Noon. Jan. 4
Noon. Jan. 31
* Twin Screw. t One Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalfjety and Company. lAd.,
Asrents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ĥ
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, to sail about 24th December.
MEDIC, t'o sail about 22nd January.
AFRIC, SUEVIO and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation!
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application,
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
S HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
, ’A k *4-
. '
r..?J
+4.3*, <&*,***?' -p „V
CRUISES. **
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILR & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St.
SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
The Commercial Bankinq Company
of Sydney, J A mi ted>
Capital Paid-up £1,213,565 12 6
Reserve Fund 1,192,713 2 6
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,656,278 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. .. Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humphrey, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
liondon Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. ,H. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the Colony of New South Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL ■ £500.000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks . •
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Business Announcements,
GET RICH QUICK.
RODS
For Locating MINES,
LOST TREASURE&c.
, The Latest Improved.
Write for Booklet , 2 Stamps.
Edw. NORTON, 64 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Publications.
Translated French Novels (Some Illustrated).
Actresses' Photos.
Catalogue Free on receipt of 2Jd. (letter postage),
A. DE SAILLE, 20 Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
THE TOURIST
will appear at Christ-
mas as a monthh
“ Outing ” magazine
of great joy, edited by NARRANGHI BOORI. Price,
Gordon and Gotch, N.S.W. Bookstall Co., and all
Newsagents.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via Brisbane, Suva,
Honolulu, and Victoria, B,C„
thence by rail to any part of
Canada or the United States,
SAILINGS
THE SCENIC ROUTE TO EUROPE
IS VIA CANADA.
Write for Particulars.^
■ —♦
UNION STEAM SHIP COVIPA IY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
Business Announcements.
The
UNDERWOOD
“All - in - Sight ’ ’
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £26,
Or Terms.
The best “light” visible is the
BLICK £lO <SL £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconrfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
r pHas Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone JJo. 107, Windsor.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Grant-da, Saturday,
December 7, at 1 p.m.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairn
S.S. Wollowra, Dec. 7.
S.S. Innamincka, Dec. 14.
Ttest and Cheapest Itoute to (Holdfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES
jy^ARITiMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
Tel. 378.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
67 Pitt Street.
F.— H. S.
F ederal*Houlder>Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
" ESSEX ”
11,000 Tons. T. Priskk, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 25th December
„ „ ~ Melbourne „ SOth December
• > ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 4th January
FOR
London & Liverpool
(:via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON & \
LIVERPOOL J
■ £49 10s.
£l2 12s. £lB 13s.
£l4 14s.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOJiG
ADELAIDE
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, December 7.
BOMRALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 14.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 21.
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
December 7.
KONOOWAIiRA, 5 mm., TUES-
DAY, December 10.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, December 14.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES : EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
Hotels.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.


E’© BRONCHITIS
W? = CURE =
THE FAMOUS REMEDY for . . .
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA and CONSUMPTION,
Has the LARGEST SALE of any CHEST MEDICINE IN THE WORLD.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. ITS HEALING POWER IS MARVELLOUS.
Sufferers from any form of BRONCHITIS, COUGH, DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING, HOARSENESS, PAIN OR SORENESS IN
THE CHEST, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to COLDS ON THE CHEST it is invalu-
able, as it EFFECTS A COMPLETE CURE. It is most comforting in allaying irritation to the Throat and giving strength to the
Voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been
known to exist where “Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at
the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a COMPLETE CURE IS CERTAIN.
CHRONIC BRONCHITIS.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THE MOST EFFECTIVE REMEDY.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I have used a number of bottles of your medicine for bronchitis, which was a chronic
complaint of mine, and I must say that of all the medicines I have taken (including' those from Drs.) none have
proved so effectual as your Bronchitis Cure. I have recommended it to many others. Yours faithfully,
THOS. OLIVER, Proprietor of “ The Lilydale Express,” Lilydale, Victoria.
BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA.
A TWELVE YEARS’ CASE WITH DISTRESSING COUGH.
CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Please send by post to Copmanhurst a complete course of your valuable medicine for
obstinate asthma. The last medicine you sent to me cured one man that had a distressing cough for twelve years.
Please find post-office order enclosed for payment. Yours thankfully,
WILLIAM OANHAM, Upper Copmanhurst, via Grafton, N.S.W.
BRONCHITIS.
A CAMBERWELL RESIDENT EXPRESSES GRATITUDE.
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Your Bronchitis Cure has relieved my wife of a cough which followed on an attack
of influenza. While I acknowledge that all good comes from only one source, ordinary gratitude bids me to
offer my earnest thanks to you, through whom this particular blessing has come.—l remain, dear sir, yours
very truly,
GEO. S. CALDWELL, Camberwell, Victoria.
SEVERE COUGH.
COMPLETELY CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE AFTER OTHER TREATMENTS HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—Having used your Bronchitis Cure with very speedy and good results for
severe cough and cold on the chest. lam sending you this testimonial to make any use of it you wish. I have
used many cough medicines, and can unhesitatingly say that yours gave me the quickest relief, and I have not
been troubled with the cough since. I have also given- it to my little boy, aged two years, with equally good
results, and now recommend it to my friends. Wishing you every success—l am, yours truly,
J. ERSKINE, Kilbirnie, New Zealand.
BRONCHITIS AND PLEURISY.
A SEVERE CASE CURED BY TWO BOTTLES OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir,—Some months ago in Sydney, I suffered from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to my
room for about a week, at the end of which time, feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact my busi-
ness as usual. But I got up too soon, for the very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from what the
doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis. The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders was frightful, and
for four long weeks I was confined to my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor, and all the time his
medicine gave me but temporary relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where I resided, told me of a
medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad attack of bronchitis and pains in
the chest, and begged of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude to you, tell you that, after the second
bottle, my cough had ceased ; but what is more astonishing, the pains from pleurisy entirely left me, and in about
a week I was able to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM, Melbourne Punch Office, Melbourne.
BRONCHITIS.
CHILD’S LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
AFTER THE CASE HAD BEEN “GIVEN UP.”
Mr. Hearne. Dear Sir, —We have to thank your bronchitis cure that we have one little boy spared to us, as we
nearly lost him. After doctors had given him up, we saw the advertisement for your Bronchitis Cure, and gave it a
trial, with the result above mentioned. —Yours faithfully,
(Mrs.) E. GRANT, Ohiltern, Victoria.
QUEENSLAND TESTIMONY.
FROM BRISBANE WHOLESALE CHEMISTS.
We often hear your Bronchitis Cure spoken well of. A gentleman told us to-day that he had given it to a child
of his with most remarkable results, the child being quite cured in three doses. We are, faithfully yours,
THOMASON, CHATER and CO., 69 Queen Street, Brisbane.
BRONCHITIS.
A VERY OBSTINATE CASH.
CURED THROUGH PERSEVERING IN THE TREATMENT BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Having been a sufferer from bronchitis for a number of j’ears and not being able
to get relief from doctors I started taking your Bronchitis Cure abort two years ago, and have been taking it on and
off ever since. lam happy to tell you that I now feel thoroughly c ired, and I can bear testimony to its worth.—l
am yours truly,
W J. CLARKE, Redbank, via Avoca, Victoria,
A CHILD SEVEN MONTHS OLD—A SUFFERER FROM BIRTH.
CURED BY A BOTTLE OF HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Kindly forward me a small bottle of your Bronchitis Cure as soon as possible, as
I cannot speak above a whisper, owing to a cold. I had a bottle from you before for my little girl when she was
seven months old. She had been suffering from bronchitis from her birth, and now she is three years old, and has
not had a return of it since. It is a splendid medicine for bronchitis or colds of any sort.—l remain, yours truly,
Mrs. H. RAMAGE, Violet Town, Victoria,
A SEVEN TEARS’ CASE.
EXPECTORATING BLOOD AND MATTER.—COMPLETELY CURED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —Your medicine has cured me of bronchitis and asthma from which I had
suffered for upwards of seven years, during which period I was scarcely ever free from coughs, and frequently the
difficulty of breathing was so distressing that for nights in succession I had to sit up. I write to you this acknow-
ledgment from a sense of duty, as in my case every other treatment had failed. For a year previous I had been
getting very much worse, and at the time I obtained your medicine I was confined to bed suffering from a most
violent cough, expectorating blood and matter, and apparently beyond hope of recovery. The first dose of the
medicine gave me welcome relief, and I steadily improved as I continued the treatment, until I became as I am now,
quite well. —Yours sincerely,
H. WALKER, Balmain, Sydney.
ASTHMA.
TWO OBSTINATE CASES CURED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS AND ASTHMA CURE.
AFTER OTHER TREATMENT HAD FAILED.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —It is with much thankfulness I write to let you know that I have taken three
bottles of your Bronchitis and Asthma Cure. I had previously suffered terribly from asthma for about three years,
and had tried everything, and had advice, but without avail. I had been for a fortnight at a time without moving
day or night out of my chair. If I went to bed I was not able to lie down. We came to New Zealand about three
years ago from Tasmania. One of my uncles there suffered with asthma for a number of years till he took your cure
about five years ago, and has never had the asthma since. 1 knew this, but it had passed out of my mind until read,
ing your advertisement in some Tasmanian papers brought it to my memory. I told my husband, and he got your
cure for me, which I have taken with completely satisfactory result.—Yours respectfully,
W. McCO.VlßE,*Mosgiel, New Zealand,
BRONCHITIS.
A SYDNEY GENTLEMAN IS SO SATISFIED WITH HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE THAT HE SENDS A
SUPPLY TO LONDON.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —I am in receipt of your favor of the 27th inst., in which you acknowledge my
order for Bronchitis Cure to be sent to my parents in London. I am sure their annual bronchial attacks will be
greatly relieved if not cured or prevented, by your valuable preparation. My own experience, and that in connec-
tion with my two-year-old son, has been pre-eminently satisfactory, and I shall continue to highly recommend it for
both old and young, and X offer you the use of this letter should you deem it worth using.—Yours truly,
HERBERT E. WHITE,
“ Holmsdale,” Bowral Street, Kensington, Sydney, N.S.W.
ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
LIFE SAVED BY HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,—l have much pleasure in stating that I have derived great benefit from taking
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. Can confidently say it has saved my life. I was a martyr to Acute Bronchitis before
taking it. I trust this letter will induce others to try it.—Yours truly,
E. F. BROTHERTON, 223 Chapel Street, Prahran, Victoria.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS! The great success of HEABNE’S BRONCHITIS CURB has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving the simple-
minded, and So getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that BEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURB
lias. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you in your own interests to be
particular to ask for HE ARNE’S and see that you get it.
HEARN B’S BRONCHITIS CURE—Small Size, 2s. fid.; Large Size, 4s. 6d. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Eorwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE . —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally
beneficial for the youngest child and the most aged person.
N.S.W. Branch Office: No. 5 f First Floor, Greer's Chambers, 522 George Street, Sydney.
i
#
0
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
“ J G ” • Crows are the bane of the
, . i
cocky s wife out on tho edge of the plain coun y.
They watch and listen for the hens to cackle, after
laying an egg in some foolish public place; then
the sooty thief swoops down and has a cheap egg.
On my farm the egg-stealing crows used to come
in scores Tried to poison them by shoving
arsenic in a lump of meat, but it only resulted in
slaying about a dozen fowls and two or three cats,
Tried shooting the crows; spent about £1 in car-
tridges, and shot six birds. Then got two rabbit
traps, fastened lumps of meat on the plates, and
set the traps on top of two posts. Half-an-hour
afterwards heard an infernal row outside. Went
out, and discovered the Missus’s prize Leghorn
rooster caught m one of the traps. Let him go, but
ga j ( j nu ffi n> Fixed up higher posts to support the
tra p St and-soon had a couple of crows caught,
Dealt it out to them, and re-set the traps, and
caught two more. Before the day was over, had
caught 13. The remaining crows then saw that
things were not as they ought to be and cleared
out, and I never saw a crow about the place for
about three months. After that, they started to
come again. Got traps to work once more, and
caught a crow by the claws. Took him out alive,
and dipped him in a solution of red ochre that
happened to be handy, and let him go. When he
made for the nearest tree every living crow that
was within sight took after him. The last I saw
of him he was about five miles away, and chased
by about 500 crows. Not a blessed crow came
near that farm all the rest of the time I
remained there, and that was about 12 months,
Don’t know what happened to the red crow, but
probably he is going yet.
“S.T.S.” : As toMurwillumbah, deceased
-.nr, - • ,
(B. 10/10/07). Why is it so difficult to guess
where the accent falls in Australian names ?
(Critics who drag in English anomalies like
“ Wooster ” and “ Berriek ” are warned off; those
things have nothing to do with this matter.) I
have a brother-in-law who lived there for years,
and the family spoke of his postal address, always
and undoubtingly, as Murwillwmbah, vid Tum-
bulgum. When he at last came along to pro-
nounce it, he was openly scornful. We had got
just as far astray as possible, and had to relearn
it as Munvi7(um6aA., rid Tum&w(gum. Again, a
friend tells me that he once had a most hopeless
® earc VT the office °A a “fc f ? m °nt
the Yudana Mutana. He called it (naturally
enough) “Yudahna Mutahna,” whereas the
letters he made most of ought by rights almost to
disappear. “ Yuddana Muttana” was the thimble
that pea was under. How can you tell even the
right way to pronounce Farina at sight? t)r
Woolloomooloo?


The CLAVIOLA PIANO PLAYER.
.
m
m
CiAV/OIA
. ft
! /
Hi
i'/ .li L 'rl
jli ! ‘ tgS
THE GLAVnOLA
Is the only Piano Player that can interpret all the works of the
great masters as written, it having a full compass of 72 NOTES.
This extended range does away with the necessity of mutilation required
for players with a shorter compass.
The Claviola Artist Music Rolls are absolutely unique and without
parallel—they are electric records, note by note, of the ACTUAL
PLAYING of the World’s Greatest Pianists, and are perfect renditions
of the classics. * -
Other important features of the Claviola are: — : ' ’
Special Levers for Phrasing and Melody Accentuation.
Brass Tubing and Leather Bellows throughout.
No Perishable Rubber used.
Our Library, comprising thousands of rolls of music, is available to
purchasers on payment of a small annual subscription.
The Claviola can be bought on easy terms, and we issue a special
invitation to any lady or gentleman interested to call and play their
favorite composition—we promise them a revelation.
FULL. PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO THE SOLE AGENTS.
MELBOURNE:
ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
270 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.
338 George Street.
DIAMOND SENSE,
If you are meditating on the purchase
of Diamonds, as an investment, why
not clinch the matter now ? Stones are
going up all the time. We have some
splendid values at present. Let us talk
them over with you and show you
the Diamonds themselves.
ħ
h
ORDER BY MAIL.
:. ; A
If unable to call, send us your order
accompanied by a remittance for what
you select. The money you send us
remains your property till you decide
that what we send is approved of.
Fine Diamond and Opal Bangle, £35.
Fine Diamond Bangle, £47 10s.
W
Diamond and Sapphire as 2-Row Bangle, £25.
Fine Diamond Brooch, £lB 10s.
mssm
Fine Diamond Bangle, £135.
With Smaller Stones, £75.
Fine Diamond Brooch, £8 10s.
m
Pearl, Ruby, Diamond, and
Sapphire Brooch, £8 10s.
Fine Barge White Diamond
Brooch, £3O.
Finest Diamonds and 2 Emerald
Brooch, £l4O.
Fine Diamonds and Emeralds, £95.
Fine Diamond and Choice Turquoise Bangle, £4O.
Fine Diamonds and Choice Opal Brooch, £3O.
Large Size, £55.
r.irs-**.!
Fine Diamonds and Pink Topaz Centre
Brooch, £3O.
Fine Diamond and Sapphire Brooch, £45.
Or Diamond and Emerald. Smaller Stones, £25.
Olivine and Rose Out Diamond Brooch, £l4 10s.
Fine Diamond Brooch, £45.
Smaller Size, £2l.
Opal and Fine Diamond Bangle, £45.
Fine Diamond Pendant and Bangle Combined,
£45.


ĥ
FOR THE
NURSERY
Zam-Buk Soap is Baby’s Surest Safeguard against
Skin and Scaip Affections.
A mother’s uppermost thought and care is for the health, safety and well-being of her babe. It is but
natural that it should be so, seeing what a helpless, weak,frail little being it is, and how susceptible it becomes
to various ailments, principally affections of the skin and scalp,, such as chafing, irritation, rash, milk crust, scald
head, etc. The risk of the child being affected with these troubles is ever present, hence special care must be
shown to prevent them. A most important factor in the health of the child is its bath, and every care should
be taken to secure a soap suitable for its delicate immatured skin. The use of common toilet soaps tend to set up skin
irritation, which, in many cases, have resulted in skin affections of various painful forms. It is in the nursery Zam-Buk
Medicinal Toilet Soap fills a long-felt want.
ZAM-BUK MEDICINAL TOILET SOAP
is a pure skin soap, unsurpassed for use on the tender skin of the babe, as well as the hardest
skin of the adult. It has the same result on each, viz., it soothes, softens, and gives the
skin refinement, and sanitates and safeguards it against any form of skin disease. Zam-Buk
Soap possesses valuable medicinal properties of a new and unique character. It replaces the
natural oil in the pores that, through ignorance in the use of common soaps containing
injurious acids and fats, has been allowed to drain away. For toilet purposes, Zam-Buk
Soap is unexcelled. It beautifies the complexion, and makes the skin clear, pure and
healthy. That is just what you want. To keep the skin as nature intended, and assist in
the prevention of the many skin affections that occur, Zam-Buk Soap should be in regular use.
sr
D
1
0
the
1
iip
p
ZcwS
There is nothing
as good for pre-
venting skin affec-
tions and impuri-
ties of the scalp.
It is sold by all
Chemists’ Stores,
or may be had,
post free, direct
from the Zam-
Buk Mfg. Co.,
39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
e
A
A
Business, Robbery, etc.
The N.S.W. orchardist, more especially the
orange-grower, whose ground is littered with fallen fruit,
owing to the ravages of the fruit fly, wears a worried
look nowadays. The Act decrees the burning of infected
fruit, and as oranges are about as inflammable as a
cataract or one of Neild’s speeches, their destruction
takes some thinking over. One Pymble (N.S.W.) man
has enlisted the domestic duck to carry on the campaign.
In pursuit of the early worm, the strenuous waddler
attacks the infected spot, and makes a clean sweep of the
pulp, leaving only the shell, which soon gets dry enough
to burn.
* * * *
Sussex-street, Sydney, the lurk of the whole-
sale produce dealers who raised a howl “ in the interests
of the poor producer” against the Federal forage and
fodder duties, thought it saw a chance during the coal
strike. The shortage of .coal threatened a disorganisation
of the Interstate 1 shipping trade, so the big men in the
street started to corner the market in all the leading
lines of produce, with the view of unloading on the
consumer at exorbitant rates. Happily, the strike did
not last long enough, and it is good to know that some of
the crowd burnt their fingers.
Butterine is now being made in Sydney to the
value of £500,000 per annum. So perfect" has its manu-
facture become that, as far as appearance goes, it cannot
be distinguished from good butter, and in taste is said to
be superior to many cheap butters. Its chief market
is found in shipping circles. It keeps better than
cheap butter, and is considered quite good enough for the
forecastle. A lot of it is sold in the cheap grocer’s shop
as butter. It is labelled “ Factory Made.” Butterine is
mainly beef suet and is wholesome enough, and if it is sold
openly as butterine, and does not masquerade as butter,
there is no valid reason to object to it. But its success
has seriously alarmed that section of the butter trade
which deals largely with inferior grade butter, and
some people are threatening to ask for legislation.
* * * ' »
The Melbourne shark finds lots of ways of earn-
ing a dishonest “ quid ” on Cup day. One smarty spotted
a buggy standing outside a city hotel. Simultaneously, a
couple of simple sailor men rolled casually along. His
brain worked swiftly. Jumping into the buggy, he sang
out, offering to drive the two round the city for the after-
noon for “ half-a-quid a head.” They closed with the
offer, and the three had a pleasant excursion. The police
had been informed, and various Johns, recognising the
turnout, tried to capture it, but the horse was fleet, and
its driver was cunning. Towards evening the smarty,
having collected his fares, strolled casually into a hotel
and left by the back way ; and the police seized the two
mariners and deposited them in the lock-up. They got
off next day, but they had a hard job to make the Bench
believe their simple tale.
* * * *
One of the best assets the Victorian landholder
Up North has just now is the dead timber on his holding.
Firewood is becoming so scarce that 7s. 6d. a ton, for sft.
lengths, is charged the water trust pumping stations
to-day, as against 3s. a few years ago.
“ Wyben ” : The alleged working-out of the
Torres Straits pearling beds is mostly myth. October
witnessed a catch of shell which established a record in
the history of the industry. One boat brought in
5 tons 6cwt. of mother-of-pearl for twelve weeks’ work.
The previous best catch was under 4 tons. The real
trouble at Thursday Island is that the Japs practically
monopolise the industry, and do not buy goods from
white traders, but send all the profits from the industry
to Nippon.
* * * *
“Wyben”: Said that James Clark and Co.,
whose pearling fleets were “driven ” out of Torres Straits
by the White Australia policy, are now dissatisfied with
working at the Aroe Islands under the Dutch flag, and
have been looking longingly at Philippine waters. But
that scheme has gone wrong, for the American authori-
ties have passed an order-in-council, directing that pearl-
ing luggers in Philippine waters must be” owned by
Americans and built in Manila.
* * * *
A Washington (IT.S.) consular report states
with alarm that Australian meat-packers are cornering
the enormous Jewish demand in England, by having
whole consignments “koshered” in due form before
shipping, the seal only being broken by a Jewish official
in London. Satisfactory to hear of Australia out-
hustling America in one direction.
* * dt 0
The exceeding regularity of the supply of rats
begins to give Melbourne City Council a suspicion that
somebody is breeding the beasts for the bonus of 2d. a
head. There is no drought or flood about this crop ; it
keeps steady at from 1100 to 1200 per fortnight, so, if
anybody has started a new primary industry, he is doing
fairly well at it.
* * * *
One of the latest unions registered in N.S.W.
is the —ahem—Sausage Case-Makers’ Union.
In promising his assistance to a deputation of
municipal officers, Premier Bent assured them they need
adduce no arguments to back up their requests. “ I
know a gentleman,” he said, “ who acts as shire secretary,
valuer, rate collector, dog registrar, gasworks secretary,
and cemetery secretary. He is a highly-qualified man,
and he is paid £lBO a year after 30 years’ service.” If
these landowners and their parasites sweat like this when
dealing in public with public money, what sort of slavery
will they practise behind their own private fences when
their own money is at stake ?
Queensland lately sent off an experimental lot
of frozen turtles, and got buyers for them in London at
prices said to range up to £6 each. One of the French
municipal visitors was so taken by them that he bought
one, and had it sent to Paris. About 35 years ago the
manager of the Lake’s Creek meat works tried tinning
turtle, and offered £1 per cwt. for all he could get over
lcwt. All the little coasting craft about the Fitzroy and
Port Curtis had a shot at the trade, and some sensational
cheques were made while it lasted. One little 25-ton
ketch, with three hands on hoard, made £9O in a fort-
night, and though she knocked off her false keel among
the reefs of the Bunker Group, it paid handsomely. The
turtle in those days were caught at night when they
went ashore to bury their eggs in the sand.
* * * *
Adelaide is suffering from an overdose of lamb.
The recent hot, dr.v spell burnt up the northern grass,
consequently graziers fired Mary’s little animal into
Adelaide as quickly as they could arrange for transport.
The Produce Dep6t accommodation, which is barely up
to normal requirements, was insufficient for the sudden
rush, so Adelaide has been fed up on the surplus until it
begins to bleat piteously, and tbe bleat of the boarder is
mingled with the bleat of the exporters, who beg the
Government to provide a larger depot. These exporters
are mostly Fat gentlemen, but, for the moment, they
have forgotten that State Socialism is a horrible thing,
with a special “set” on marriage ties. Meanwhile, the
restaurants are crowded with pale young men asking
firmly for pork chops.
* * * *
“Sr”: Why will Australian people persist in
using iron for roofing houses? We are ridiculous in our
dress, and we dress up our houses just as ridiculously by
putting on an iron hat to keep off the heat of an Aus-
tralian sun. A few Melbourne suburban houses are using
shingles, and they make the most satisfactory and sensible
roof I know. They have a far better appearance than
tiles and are more waterproof, and they are cheaper than
iron. Yet we live in ovens, or under flaring red roofs,
instead of under a characteristic Australian roof of
shingles. Objection may be made to shingles on account
of fire, but so little do the insurance cos. think of this
that the rate is but 6d. per hundred extra.
“Hamer” : When pure foods are insisted on,
the Cheap Jack will want a lot of attention. He is bad
enough when he deals in superfluous oddments, but when
he sells groceries he is a horror. One Cheap John, to my
knowledge, bought up the sweepings of flour mills and
disposed of the mixture as flour. There is nothing that
an economical person like that will not handle. When he
can’t sell his horrors separately he makes them up into
“ lucky bundles ” —say, a tin of condensed milk, a dozen
matches, a pound of flour, and three lead pencils, for six-
pence. The condensed milk sold under such conditions
shrieks for analysis.
« * * *
In some respects even the Foreign-trade
Britisher is more patriotic than the Australian. A con-
signment of Kameruka (N.S.W.) cheese, lately sent to
England, is reported to be the best ever received there
from any “ colony,” Canada included. It brought from
635. to 655. per cwt., while Canadian and Maoriland goods
brought 58s. to 60s. But, “the agents had great diffi-
culty in selling the cheese to the retailers as Australian
Cheddar ; if they could have called it English Cheddar the
very highest price would have been realised.” So, in
England, the people prefer their own goods ; but with
many Australians any old thing will do, as long as it is
not Australian.
* * * *
“X.”: A clothing manufacturer has told me
his experience of the run-’em-up trade, which he
has only recently entered. No matter how carefully he
worked it, he found that he was invariably under-cut on
contracts by his trade rivals. His plant and methods
were equal to theirs. He paid his girls as little as
they did, and as little as he dared. Yet he was
always 3d. to Is. outside the rest of the trade.
After some cogitation he “dropped.” The next time a
big contract came his way he specified the number of
skirts or other clo’ he would undertake to return out of
so much cloth, and this proved to be half-a-dozen more
than previous contractors had supplied for the same
quantity of material. Their profit had consisted in this
half-dozen finished clo’ which they retained out of the
material. Now business is booming with that run-’em-up
man, and he wears a smile the size of a railway arch.
The talk of the chance group turner! on the
chagrin of missing the ’bus during business hours. It
was the auctioneer’s turn. He was, he explained, at
Maitland (N.S.W.), once offering a lucerne farm under
instructions to sell with a reserve, and the reserve was
high enough to fill him with doubt. So he lavished his
finest arts on the property, and told of the vast things it
would do if it were better improved and more thoroughly
supervised. And as he finished and waited for the bids he
felt rather proud of his efforts. He felt better still when
the bidding began. There were bids in all directions.
The reserve price had been well passed when the
owner came up to him, with the craving for wealth in his
eye, and whispered hoarsely : “ I won’t sell at all. I never
properly saw the value of the farm before. You put it
grand, man. I can make all those improvements. I’ll
keep it ! ” So the vehicle drifted round the corner, as the
auctioneer turned away with coarse language in his
mouth.
■* * » *
“ Quan ” : Queensland pineapple canning fac-
tories either throw away the refuse from the fruit or feed
pigs with it. Now, however, somebody suggests cider.
Interesting experiments have already been carried out,
under the direction of the Agricultural Department,
at Toowoomba, with 3cwt. of pineapples. Being some-
what dry, they yielded only three gallons of juice, out of
which about 90 gallons of “ grade 2 ” cider were made.
It is claimed that, with a pulping machine of a-ton-an-
hour capacity (which could be made for about £8), six
grades of cider can be manufactured. John Cashin, a
fruit-grower of the Tweed River (N.S.W.), used to make
pineapple cider, and a Tumbulgum publican used to sell
it. I was persuaded to try it one hot day instead of beer.
Liked it so well that I had some more, and I went on
having some more until I had to leave for a district
which knew not John Cashin or his juice.
**■*-*
“Stony” : If a man isn’t a thinker, his politics
can mostly be told by the time he strikes the city in the
morning. The fat-souled person who gets the train at
10 a.m., and only sees other fat-souled people lazing into
town, falls into a bloated idea that there isn’t any suffer-
ing and poor clothing and scanty feeding in the world,
and that the hard-faced, starvtd people simply don’t
exist, except in quantities that are Scripturally reason-
able. But any time between 7and 8 o'clock of the morning
is the time to see the poor. Then they come out of their
burrows in droves, Girls in millions ! Trains full of
them ! Lean and lank, and mottle-faced, with a ha’pprth
of lunch in a scrap of paper or a tin, all bent on getting to
work in time, for fear of a fine or a brutal sneer front the
petty boss. Most of them are dressed in tuppenny
replicas of last year’s fashions, and (more power to their
game spirit!) flaunting some feeble attempts at gaiety in
their costumes. But hard-up—thousands of them ! Then
at 9 o’clock and later, the more prosperous office-people
rush in (lean enough, too, a good proportion of these);
and, still later, the person who bellows loud untruths
about Guv’ment interference with Private Enterprise—
the person with the greasy soul who hardly knows there’s
a skimpily-clad shop-girl or a poorly-fed factory-hand in
the city. Nor cares—except when someone sticks Up for
the under dog ; and then he knows the last word on the
subject.
* * * *
The “backbone of the country,” despite its
horror of Socialism, likes a good, strong, Socialistic post
to lean up against, and when it finds one to its liking it
wants a heap of persuading thUEt the post isn’t its own
private property. During the drought, in 1902, the
Queensland Government purchased a large quantity of
seed wheat in S. Australia, and passed it on to the
farmers, on condition that payment for it should be made
when the crops were reaped. That’s five years ago, and
though there have been several good seasons since, the
amount owing a few weeks ago was £ll,OOO. A recent
circular to the debtors brought in only £lOOO.
* * * *
The new commercial morality has spread to
Ceylon. From one of the newspapers of that balmy
island the London Daily News takes the following
rYH. A. HORSE—rising 7, fine mouth and paces,
about 15 hands; fine Lady’s Hack; shows a lot
of breeding. Reason for selling: bad with motors;
won’t go in harness; jibs when leaving stables;
catches rider by seat of breeches when mounting ; but
a darling pet.—Apply, etc.
THE SECOND CHRIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I go to my work of a morning
I think of God’s ruined plan,
How the iron heel of Progress
Has deadened the soul of man.
Men crowd to the city with me,
All smileless and stern and cold.
The shrine of their hearts —an office ;
The God of their seeking—gold.
I would rather have been a rover
By some grey ocean’s shore,
Mating with men and women
In the red Cave Days "of Yore,
Than a son of the bloodless present,
A child of these pulseless years,
When gold and silver and copper
Are more than laughter and tears.
We hustle and cheat and barter,
Not caring for wrong or right,
And hunt all day in the Market,
And count our gains by night.
We heed no light of sunset,
No song of field or wood.
The swine are housed within us,
The wolf is in our blood.
The maiden buys a lover,
For love is but a jest,
With book and ring and candle
The sale of hearts is blessed.
I hate the human market,
Where lust is lord of love,
And Soul is trodden under,
And Self is throned above.
I long to see a rider,
Foam on his horse’s flanks,
Charge through the hungry hucksters,
And break their sordid ranks,
And rise upon his stirrups,
And cry, while they stand dumb,
“ A Second Christ is needed,
And a Second Christ has come.”
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
15he LEADING
HOUSE
h
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more.
°“ r snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
[cant
B
BEAT
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 381 in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun —Is 9d, N.S. W. ; 3s 2d, Interstate.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
ĥ
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Ib. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultrt Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score <fc
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these pricos Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, gen nine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* del Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2S. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, Ins post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only^
y\
%
is the face cream for the Aus-
tralian woman who values a
good complexion.
It will remove all the dirt and dust tha
soap and water cannot get at from the pores
of the skin, and will keep it soft, smooth and
clear through the Australian summer, so
complexion destroying.
Oatine is a pure cream made from healing
oats and contains no dangerous mineral salts
or animal fats, which hot weather can cause
to go bad.
Oatine will not grow hair. Men should
always use it after shaving.
Oatine costs 1/9 a jar at all chemists,, or
in larger sizes, containing four times the
amount, 3/6 .
Tobeobtained atall chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
HYPNOTISM-
A NYONE can learn to exert a magic influence
r\ over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money.
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Tree.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LE2 EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
DYSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true.' 5 *
l/.AJ-C.
22
s
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONLY.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
>
KQ
Of a.ll Dealers.
for
w comfort
r awh ee I
The recognised
r Standard of saddle
r perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng:.
67>g BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
%£ Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d♦
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
mmm
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES’ AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabric for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Sole Agents inN.S.W.), 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect., or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


HONESTLY WORTH A GUINEA.
Pears Annual
CHRISTMAS, 1907. READY NOVEMBER 25th.
(Published by the Proprietors, A. & F. PEARS, LTD., 71*75 New Oxford Street. London.)
The Literary and Artistic Programme includes:—
Seven Great Tales
BY
Seven Great Authors
Geo. R. Sims, Barrv Pain, The Baroness
Orczy. John Strange Winter, W. Le Queux,
Frank Richardson, Cuxcliffe Hyne.
Illustrated in Black and White and ip Tints, by
Seven Great Artists
Frank Dadd, R. 1., J. C. Dolman, A.R.W.S., Tom
Browne, R. 1., A, Forestier, Maurice Grieffenhagen,
Gordon Browne, R.l.', and Will Owen
In Handsome Coloured Cover, and accompanied by
Four Presentation Plates,
Each in abou< 13 Colours, W 2. •
“A Chip of the Old Block.”
By Fred Evans Dedicated by special
permission to Lord Roberts, V.C., etc.
*' A Merry ’Xmas,”
By Frank Dado, R.l. An Old English
Skating Scene.
“ Dessert,”
By E. Ladell. A beautiful Study of
Fruit.
“A Quiet Pipe,”
By the late Sir Euwij* Landseer, R.A.
SOL>D BY ALL BOOKSELLERS.
Wholesale Jlgenls for Jlustralasia, GORDON & QOTCH
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Mrs. MACLUROANS
COOKERY BOOK.
Containing 1114 Tried Recipes, to be
obtained at all Booksellers.
Price, 2/6.
Postage
6d. extra.
Mrs. MACLURCAN, Proprietress,
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
WENTWORTH HOTEL.
h
'SOXOM
■nsioiw
MOW
Reduce Your Fat!
We can reduce your fat by from five pounds a week
to thirteen pounds a fortnight, and to normal, with-
out any inconvenience, violent exercise, special
dieting or detention from the ordinary pursuits
of life. Thousands of overfat persons have been
successfully reduced by our harmless remedy . .
“FATCURE”
** Fatctire *• is absolutely non-poisonous, pleasant to take, always effective,
and produces not the least ill effects while successfully reducing your weight. It
strengthens the system and corrects the agents of digestion, thereby preventing a
return to the old condition, and making the reduction of fat permanent. Give it a trial.
Absolutely no harm can result from using “Fatcure”
This treatment is unique amongst anti-fats in that it contains absolutely no harmful nor
deleterious ingredients and though it reduces weight rapidly, its use could not harm the health of
even an infant. Its purity, efficacy and freedom from deleterious or harmful substances is
absolutely guaranteed Its use invariably improves the general health, a general improvement
becoming noticeable a few days after beginning to take it. “Fatcure” is put up in tablet form.
MRS. GERTRUDE HENERY, Paddington, N.S.W., writes: —“After using Fatcure for about three
months I find myself reduced in weight by over four stone. My general health is much improved, in fact,
began to improve the first week. I now enjoy my meals, enjoy my daily work, and enjoy perfect health and
a normal figure. No more palpitation and weak heart spells make me feel a different woman.”
CALL, OR POST 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE.
If you can call we will give you Free Sample, and weigh you privately. If not, write for Free Sample.
All correspondence is confidential, and samples and treatment are plainly wrapped so that contents of
package are not disclosed. Hours : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
The WATWORTH CO., Suite J
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street.
The Song of the Axe.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THIS is the song of the driving axe to the
woods ere the bright-browed inorn.
Sweet from the laver of sunrise, stept,
light-foot, o’er the mountain horn ;
Sung ere the sullen mists climb up to lie in the
heart of the Sun :
“Make way, make way, on the hills to-day, your
pride is past and done.”
There is a cry in the mighty masts that have dared
the hate of years,
The thunder-flame, the whirling storm, the winds
of the hemispheres ;
Ah, bitter the doom when the axe bites deep, and
the lean tops waver slow,
Once more, once more, till the legions roar head-
down to the depths below.
They bowed the head to the still, small voice of
the slayer come up to kill,
Who mocked the thresh of the frozen gales and
stood in glory still ;
(Majesty born of the sun was theirs, of the mist,
and the golden days ;
But who may stand when the gods command and
the wild men work their ways !
Shoulder to shoulder, and rank on rank, the
green-plumed people tost
Their crests to the breeze of the yellow dawn
that glittered across the frost;
Midnight had brewed them heartful draughts,
and fearless and fair they hung,
And challenged the little men murm’rously, and
laughed till the axes swung.
The invaders came in the dewy dawn, and spoke
to the listening wood,
And fear crept into the towering trunks, and
shook them as they stood.
They whispered the tale, each unto each, till
blown of the wind it crept,
A last long sigh, to the shining sky, and the
jewelled bowers wept.
The brown birds woke to the clang below, and
fled in wild despite
To drink the breath of the honeyed morn, and
wheel in the glory-light;
And the axes chimed on the earth below, their
song to the shoulder stroke,
Till a green lane yawned tumultuously, and the
mist went by like smoke.
(So the loved of the gods, the human great, who
have hardily fought and won—
Their feet in the furrows of earth, their brows in
the blaze of a giddy sun :
The glamor of fame is theirs, when lo ! a grim
iconoclast;
Time, blind and bent, with fierce intent, smites
home, and they fall at last.)
This is the song of the driving axe ere the new
day’s hot desire
Swims up the chaste, pearl Orient in a soft, smooth
flood of fire :
“Make way, make way, ye little trees, ye arro-
gant woods, make way !
We are the heralds before the host, the Slayers
come up to slay ! ”
Axe, and fire, and smoking nights—such is the
sorrowful tale,
When the flocks, and herds, and caravans turn
over the sunlight trail,
And brave-browed women of quiet step, and
speech, and toil-worn hands—
Make way ; to-morrow the heirs of men are here
for the mountain lands.
The axes sang to the creaking woods, and slew
them as they went,
The green-plumed legions reared and roared ere
yet their pride was spent.
No more the winds in their arms shall dream—
man works his subtle plans,
And rocking slow on the plains below steal out
his caravans.
MAORI LAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE SPECIAL RATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIKE most other manufacturing centres of
Maoriland, Rangihape was blessed with 3
variety of special designed tQ foster
industries. Raw material for the factories
was carried at a ridiculously low tariff, and the
freight on manufactured articles to Romahapa was
less than half that on the same class of goods
from Romahapa to Rangihape. Also, coal from
the Rangihape mines was allowed a concession in
freight to enable it to compete in the Romahapa
factories with the Newcastle article with which
the potato ships used to fill up for the return
journey.
All these things encouraged local industry, and
increased the output of blasphemy whenever a
new sub-stationmaster arrived at Rangihape. The
usual rule was for the old man to leave by the first
train after the arrival of his successor, but at
Rangihape and Burning Plains he usually stayed
for a couple of days to guide the newcomer
through the wilderness of local rates. But when
Jones went down to replace McGregor, the man
with the Highland name was in a sick bed, and,
as usual, the man who knew least about the local
rates was the local stationmaster.
Jones wa§ famous for his flow of language. He
Wely Vised objectionable words, and his
ings took the form of loud questions, addressed to
the Almighty, as to what He meant by it, and
statements to the effect that he had always given
the Almighty his moral support and expected
better treatment in return.
But he was a man who had the knack of grasp-
ing intricate things, and by the time he had been
at Rangihape 24 hours he was master of the
system. It had been designed hy old Hambling,
the great bald-faced Scotchman who held the
position of Assistant-General Manager, and who
was logical in all things. So, once [ones had
found the key, the mystery was simplicity itself.
Then Macphairson happened along.
• * * «
Macphairson was member for the district, and
maintained his position by wearing kilts and care-
fully spreading the impression that he was the
titular head of the clan. No Scotsman would
stand against him —it would have been treason ;
and when an Englishman from Canterbury did
oppose him, that misguided individual lost his
• deposit. All around Rangihape Macphairson was
very solid.
But as the years wore on and coal mines
opened up at Stirling, a few miles from Rangi-
hape and in the same electorate, there came an in-
flux of Welsh, Cornish, and Durham miners, who
gibed at kilts. Some of these men eventually went
on the land, others drifted into other industries,
and their children were numerous, and taught the
Highland bairns that kilts were ridiculous. Stir-
ling became a manufacturing centre, too, on
account of the close proximity of the coal, and the
local people howled for the benefit of the special
rates from Rangihape till they eventually got them.
Then the new settlement started to overhaul the
older centre rapidly, and as Rangihape had
always voted for Macphairson, Stirling went
against him on general principles. But the
Scotch proprietors around Rangihape held the
balance of power, and they stuck to kilts.
Macphairson was never really anxious about his
seat till Duncan Mackinnon announced his candi-
dature. Mackinnon was a formidable rival. He
was a Scotsman. He announced that Macphair-
son’s claim to be titular head of the clan was
bunkum. Also, he hurled dirt at the clan gener-
ally, and talked about being a Maorilander.
The younger generation was enthusiastically for
Mackinnon, though the old men stuck to Mac-
phairson ; and in that bracing climate the
old fools lived long. Realising . that he
was safe in the older districts, Macphairson
determined to carry the war into the new ones,
and he raged up and down in a startling manner.
Everywhere he was listened to with attention, and
when he had finished speaking the meetings carried
resolutions declaring that he had thrown no light
on the political situation and had given no evidence
of having done anything for the district that it
should re-elect him. At one meeting a resolution
disapproving of kilts was lost by a single vote.
This sort of warfare broke the Macphairson up.
It was necessary that he should claim credit for
something. The question was what the Devil
there was to claim credit for. Then he suddenly
thought of the local rates. Here was an argument
why he should be re-elected. He rushed down
to stationmaster Creedon, borrowed a copy of the
railway tariff, and took it home to study it.
It was after dinner when he opened it, and he
was feeling good. When he had glared at it for
two solid hours without understanding anything,
he felt rather bad. It was all Greek, and his
head ached ; he felt exasperated and disappointed.
He went to Creedon’s house, and asked him to
explain. Creedon couldn’t.
He went over to the station-office next morning,
about 11 a.m. He was wearing a kilt, a sporran,
plaid, and all the rest of it, and his journey to the
office was a sort of triumphal progress, punctu-
ated by whiskies at the pubs along the line of
route. By the time he arrived at the railway
office he was in a state of exaltation and about as
aggressive as a hungry bulldog. He strode into
the office after kicking open the door, and Jones
sprang up from the telegraph key with an oath.
“ Dinna swear, or she’ll catch nae feesh ! ”
said Macphairson. “ See, laddie, ye’ll gang
hame tae your supper early th’ nicht, an’ then
gang doon tae ma place. Get there aboot a
quarter tae eight. Ah hae worruk for ye. ”
He strode out without waiting for a reply.
Jones was a public servant, and the Macphairson
was the public. A few minutes before he went
to tea, old Creedon reminded Jones that he had to
go to Mr. Macphairson’s. Jones rose angrily.
J‘ Do you mean to say that it is your instruction
I should go to this fellow’s house to-night ? ” he
inquired with a snort.
<l I do ; an’ please be veera respectfu’ to him.
He is member for the district and one of our
employers. ”
Jones was too full for speech ; but after the
S. M. had departed, Jones made severe remarks to
his Creator, and finally demanded an explanation
as to why he was placed in such a world wdthout
being consulted.
Receiving no reply, he began to wonder what
he was wanted for. He picked up the paper and
glanced down the announcements of the Mac-
phairson’s speeches, and found he was to hold
forth at Stirling the following evening on the
subject of local rates and the great railway con-
cessions he had secured for the district. And
Jones smiled a dreadful smile.
He arrived at the Macphairson mansion a few
minutes after eight. The Macphairson abused
him for being late, and then explained that he
required a proper analysis of the local rates, so
that the public could be made to understand what
he had done for the district. Jones mentioned
that he had a slight cold, and that whisky and
honey was a specific, Macphairson said he had
heard that before, and suggested first of all that
Jones should make out a complete list of the local
rates, and then write out a short review of the
effect of each and how it operated to the benefit
of the district.
Jones drew a flask from his pocket and asked
the Macphairson if he had any glasses. He inci-
dentally expressed a hope that Mr. Macphairson
had a mouth, and the tone in which he said it
suggested that the lack of evidence made him
doubt it.
(Continued on next page.)


KIDNEY TROUBLE affects PEOPLE DIFFERENTLY
Though no two persons alike are
affected in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man may suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism —another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous, and despondent —
her neighbour may have all the
symptoms of dropsy or Bright’s disease.
It depends on the sufferer’s constitution
and the nature of the impurities kept
back in the body by the blood filters—
the kidneys.
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills
Should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong. . .
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation; they drive out the uric
acid that irritates the kidney mem-
branes and clogs the passages. Doan’s
Pills help the kidneys in their great
blood-filtering work, and give tone
to the whole lddney organism.
nmmimmii
PIP
IJ
c
rmiwwnwnwn
c
x
X
c
4 ‘ Every picture tells a story.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box, or
posted free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt-street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin-lane, Surry Hills, Sydney,
says:—“For nine years I’ve been troubled with the
kidneys. In that time I used all sorts of remedies, but
the first to do me good was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills —these were Al. I used to get pains in the back
and across the shoulders, hot flushes of blood to my
head, burning pain under the eyes ; I was frightfully
nervous, and had palpitation of the heart. Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills started to relieve me when I had taken
a few doses. After I had taken them for a week, I felt
so well that I forgot to take them. Anybody who needs
a kidney medicine should get Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above five years later: —
“I am free of every distressing symptom mentioned above,
and have been ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me five years ago.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., ex-Railway Guard, 749
Harris-street, Ultimo, says:—“ Some time ago I strained
myself pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the
effect in the small of my back. For three solid months I
was unable to work. I had a very lame back, and a dull
pain through the loins and the kidneys, and my secretions
became unnatural and irregular. I used Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and obtained wonderful relief. lam so much
better, I can now do heavy work. I am firmly convinced
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are a true kidney remedy,
and I never fail to recommend them among my friends.”
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement: —“I am still
well, and have never suffered with my kidneys since Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills cured me eight years ago.”
S.NVOQ
Backache
Kidney
ĥ
Macphairson brought glasses with alacrity, and
drank heartily.
Then Jones took off his coat, and wrote steadily
for two hours. After that he handed the sheets
to Macphairson to read. Mac. read, and became
excited. He said it was “veera plain, veera
simple ! ” Jones advised him to read the state-
ment to the public and not to try too much
explanation, as the subject was a difficult one.
Macphairson said he would, drank what was left
of Jones’s whisky, and then saw him off the
premises.
This conduct was not due to any meanness on
the part of Macphairson, who, to his peers and
electors, was hospitality itself. But Jones was a
public servant, and being a stranger on a relieving
trip only, had no vote. That was all.
• * * *
The meeting at Stirling was a crowded one.
Macphairson held forth for an hour and a half.
Then he produced his summary, and read it out.
A titter ran through the building, and dazed-
looking men were busy taking notes. There was
some interruption, which the Mackinnonites
crushed with great suddenness. They wanted
the Macphairson to have plenty of rope, and he
got it. He also hung himself.
When he had finished his speech, the manager
of the Stirling Enterprise Coal Mining Co. arose and
made a few remarks. He produced a copy of the
tariff, and pointed out that the Macphairson’s rates
were all wrong, and his deductions about what he
had done for the district consequently imaginary.
The rates he had quoted for coal really applied to
hay ; and the pig-iron rate, which he had said was
a reduction secured by him with great difficulty,
was actually the freight charge on corned beef
when sent in large quantities. Also the alleged
concession on steel rails in quantities above eight
tons didn’t apply to steel rails at all ; it was the
concession allowed on passenger rates when eight
preachers were travelling together to attend a
church conference.
It was quite evident that a man who did not
even know what the local rates were had nothing
to do with the obtaining of them. He added that
he didn’t believe Macphairson was the head of his
clan at all, and he said he regarded kilts as a relic
of barbarism.
Others followed in the same strain. In the
middle of it all, the candidate suddenly sprang
from the platform and rushed after the retiring
reporters to ask them to suppress all accounts of
the meeting. Then he re-entered the hall by the
front door and made a wild spring at the throat of
a tall young man in a knickerbocker suit, and was
met by a straight left, that laid him out for five
seconds. Foaming with fury, he arose and once
more attacked the stranger, and this time suc-
ceeded in getting a grip of his throat.
When the excited audience hauled him off,
Jones was nearly throttled. But the crowd chased
Macphairson to the railway station, and threw
mud on his kilts, and Macphairson, when he
arrived at the station, threw coal at the crowd.
And when the train came in, he got on the
carriage platform and challenged all and sundry.
Mackinnon was elected.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Soul-Feeders.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE may be married and she may be single,
or she may be married and he may be
single, or they both may be married ; but
they are never, never married to each other.
She may begin the soul-feeding by saying he
is too nice or too young to be married, or he may
begin it by saying : “ Are you really married ? I
shouldn’t have thought so.” “Why?” “Oh,
well, you look too young and untroubled —er, any-
way, I’m sorry.” Or again : “ Are you really mar-
ried, and have you been able to decide yourself as to
the question, ‘ls Marriage a P'ailure?”’ If she
is all on for a nourished soul, she looks sadly or
dreamily, or whichever expression most suits her
style of beauty, and, dropping her voice to the
right pitch, says : “ Does any woman ever find
marriage anything else but a failure ? ” or some-
thing equally pensively effective. Or again, he
may tell her that his wife doesn’t “ understand ”
him ; she starves his soul, and so he comes to her
to have it fed.
There is plenty for them to talk about, poetry
and the arts, sunsets, moonrisings, cloud effects,
motors, and “ shoes and ships and sealing-wax ” ;
but not necessarily Love. This is what makes
soul-feeding so intensely alluring. It is treading
on dangerous ground, and then steering off again.
Even old men grow quite skittish and romantic
over the business. When they couldn’t walk into
the next room to get something for their wives,
because of a twinge of gout or a rheumatic toe,
they can trot along miles and miles of country
lanes and sandy beaches with their soulful She.
They are so many, and they all look so happy.
Is it the knowledge that they will not marry each
other that gives them the happy security in feeling
that they cannot be disillusionised ?
The Soul-feederess is generally more in earnest
than He is ; she it is who arranges the outings,
and brings the basket —for the soul-feeders do not
exist entirely on soul. She does not wait to be
wooed. If she did, she probably wouldn’t be at
all. She has to keep him interested by a variety
of novel inventions, or he would soon “fade”
away through an insufficiency of soul (or other)
nourishment. She works hard to gain his in-
terest ; it means so much more to the woman ; the
man thinks he always has her interest.
If she mentions her feeder to you, she says they
are “ only chums,” and they have “ lots of things
in common,” and “ it is such rubbish to say a man
and a woman cannot be chums without anything
else”; besides “he is my husband’s oldest
friend”; or he says she is his wife’s “dearest
friend,” etc., etc. Sometimes “ we are cousins.”
Looks are not of importance to the soul-feeders ;
only souls “ rule the court, the camp, the grove.”
What matters it if his legs are crooked, or that his
ears stand out or down ? Or if her figure is bad
or her face indifferent ? They see beyond the out-
ward semblance to the bright, glowing soul within,
pining for its affinity soul.
If you take a tram to La Perouse, and strike
out along lonely fields and dales, you come across
them ; if you go to Manly and walk miles over
the cliffs, you find them, taken up with their
pretty, high-souled talk, or bending over the
beloved poetry —Browning for choice. Husband
or wife at home has no place in their holy
thoughts. But they do not go beyond the “ soul ”
stage ; they don’t wish for anything stirring and
tragic and public.
Near our selection there lives a lady of
mature years who has a soul-feeder. Pie has a
wife who, in the first case, was a “very dear
friend of mine.” Well, this lady is charming,
and although her hair a few years back was fairly
silvery, it is now a beautiful and successful bur-
nished golden brown. Her whole appearance is
dainty and fascinating—that is after noon ; nobody
ever sees her before that hour. If I am passing
her sliprails and see the pretty creature in her
garden, arrayed in virgin white, with roses
“ tucked in her belt,” a shady garden hat with
more roses tucked thereon crowning her golden
gleamy locks, trilling a catching air, and giving a
little start of fear w'hen she hears the gate click,
I say to myself, “What ho, the soul-feeder
cometh,” and sure enough ’tis he. This has gone
on, according to the neighbor’s knowledge, for the
last six years, and still he seems attracted, so here
is something in favor of soul-feeding as a staying
game. This wise lady also combines her little
affair with dainty dinners, at which they eat a decent
amount. She works hard to keep youthful look-
ing, half-killing herself with Turkish baths and
other things, and all for what ? —so that she can
hug herself with the thought that she has robbed
another woman of her husband !
The wife of the man who soul-feeds tells her
friends that it is a shame the amount of “ working
back” her husband has to do. She is full of
pity for him. But he is not working back, he is
soul-feeding, though one can hardly say there is
no work in struggling to live up to the ideals of
an hysterical female, and climbing up cliffs, and
trampling over green fields, and gasping through
verses that he doesn’t understand or care two-
pence about. Then there is great sacrifice as well
for the man soul-feeder, for while he is with the
soulful She he has to deny himself many things
dear to the stomach of the ordinary man, for it is
against all the cult of Soulfeedingdom to eat
steak and onions and things like that..
The husband of the woman who soul-feeds wishes
his wife would not lead such a strenuous life ; for,
besides her home duties, she attends daily classes
for cookery, and dressmaking, and millinery, and
anything that will make her a good housewife and
save his pocket. And then she is a great ‘ ‘ reader ”
too, going over every day to the Library to change
the books. A man likes his wife to be a “reader” ;
and then it is so cheap. She is fond of having
lunch in town too, a simple little hobby which he
encourages ; and besides, she can’t get decent
meat in her suburb —another journey to town.
Women who do not desire to soul-feed (believe
me it is an unprofitable and risky game), beware of
the married man who hints at being “ Not under-
stood.” Tell him if you like that you think his
wife is far above him, and you pity her ; he won t
throw out any more feelers. Men, beware of the
woman who hints “ things” against her husband
and his want of soul. Your own wife might be
trying the same game !
M.M.
Over the River.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I RODE beside the river
On a summer afternoon,
Where the sunbeams throb and quiver,
And the river-lilies swoon.
And you dwelt over the river, love,
Where the poplars showed so green
Over the silent river, love,
That seemed so deep between,
Loving a man whose hands were tied,
And who deemed it better that he should ride
Lonely there by the river.
When I rode by the river
Did you hear the bit-bars ring,
Where the river-grasses shiver,
And the lazy rushes swing ?
Was it only the bells in the river, love,
That called as I rode away ?
My heart said, “Over the river, love,
She waits where the poplars sway,
Singing ever a golden song.”
And I heard you, dear, as I rode along
Lonely there by the river.
When I rode by the river
You were so near to me
(Only a shallow river,
Not deep, as it seemed to be).
I heard you over the river, love,
When I was riding past;
And over and through the river, love,
I rode like a thunder-blast.
As the strong hoofs made the water fly
I heard the chattering ripples cry,
“ Love finds a ford through a river.”
When we rode by the river
The miles went flashing past—
The horses sobbed, a-quiver—
For we were riding fast.
And the wedding-bells in the river, love,
Were ringing our bridal tune,
And the willows talked to the river, love,
On that summer afternoon.
And the dragons knelt, who held the ford,
When a queen and a knight with a trusty sword
Rode clattering over the river.
M.L.
WILL LAWSON.


m
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends his
photo and writes that he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Pills. He took
in all three bottles of the Sarsaparilla
and two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S £ arsaparilla
acts directly upon the blood-forming glands of the body, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color to the lips and cheeks, clearing away pimples and blackheads.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S,” not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TT. S. A.
ħ
COLORED
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing- 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent, ’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., B.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
h
ĥ
A PRETTY JEWEL
CASKET FOR HER
You naturally want to give her some-
thing' uncommon, and if you can get it
inexpensive it will please you all the
more.
There is nothing that appeals more
to a lady than a jewel casket—it is so
handy to have on the dressing-table.
And if you select one from “ the store
where quality counts " you can always be
sure it will be attractive and elegant in
design.
In addition to our usual fine stock,
we have opened up an entirely new line
of dainty jewel caskets eminently suit-
able for presents.
They are all silver-mounted with hall-
marked silver, and have a nice little bevel-
edged mirror on the lid. The size is 4x 4
inches, and the price, post free, 6s. 6d,
If you prefer a smaller size, we can
supply you at the following prices, 3x3
inches, 35.; 2x2 inches, 2s. 6d.
When seletting presents our “A.&C."
Christmas Catalogue will be useful.
Ask us to send it on to you
— I TO-DAY.
ANGUS (SI COOTE,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
George Street, Corner Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
THE BALLET GIRL
ħ
h
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Proa. Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
’ Illustrated Lists or Books and No\
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm In DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS , ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
h
h
Sufferers from Deafness or Head Noises
desiring a complete and permanent cure
should write to The L. R. VERNON CO.
60 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY, for pam-
phlet describing an entirely new self-
applied method which will be sent post
free on mentioning this paper.
Hypnotism
i Header, why not he able to use the
most and powerful force of
nature? fey my method yon can learn
to Hypnotize in a few hours time, with-
out leaving your home. You can per-
form all the many marvellous feats
that are possible to the Hypnotist.
Through Hypnotism you can cure disease
conquer pain; win reluctant affection,
gratify your ambitions, and produce
amusement by the hour. It costs you
nothing to find out all about it. I have
just issued in book form a mammoth
illustrated LESSON or Key to
j Hypnotism, which fully explain*
the mysteries and secrets
of the Art. It contains
'hundreds of beautiful and
h
artistic engravings, and is the most elaborate
and expensive thing of the kind
ever published. For a short
time I will send this magnifi-
cent work FREE, sealed on
receipt of 6d. (stamps) to cover
postage. Order to-day and learn
to Hypnotize. It is a chance of
a life-time. Address—
ĥ
Prof.
89 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
FREE f
■ m Ih mm ■
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted.
ħ
h
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away Prize*, such as Musical
instruments, Silver Watches and Chains, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Ladies’ Muff Chains, Selid Gold Rings,
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of One Thousand Pounds,
All you have to do is to send us your Name and Address, and
we will send you 24 assorted packets of our Reliable Seeds, such
as Sweet William, Poppy, Marigold, Mignonette, Chrysanthemum,
Wallflower, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per packet, send us our
money (6/-), and we will forward you by return mail any present
you may select from our grand list.
We trust you—the risk is ours. Yon may return the
seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of sell-
ing them ridiculously easy, forthey are splendid value.
Don’t delay, send at once before our offer is withdrawn
ĥ
Florist;;' seed
Co. 52
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Do You Know
that more than half the sickness in the world, especially of
women, is caused by constipation? It can be prevented if
BEECHAM’S PILLS are taken whenever nature calls for
assistance. Comfort and happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
THE HANDY HOME REMEDY.
There’s no secret about the value of Beecham’s Pills as a
family medicine. Thousands of families always keep a box
handy—and it is the first resort in case of sickness appearing,
being the “stitch in time” which prevents further trouble, and
possibly serious illness. If you have not got a box of
BEECHAM’S PILLS in the house, get one now, you never know
how soon it may be needed. A dose taken when ailments arise
will soon right the wrong and restore you to health and vigour.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 J (56 phis ) & 2/9 (168-pills).
%/
V
FREE!
Out this out
and send it
to us and we
will send
you free,
postage pre-
paid, in plain wrapper, a copy of the new edition of
our splendid, invaluable and standard. illustrated
Medical Work, which acknowledged medical treatise
should be read by every adult.
Dr. Austin Electric Belt
is an up-to-date appliance, whereby electricity in a
gentle and continuous current saturates every nerve,
muscle, fibre and organ of the human system. It
absolutely cures all cases of Nervous Disorders,
Weak Back, Lumbago, Rheumatism, Liver, Kidney
and Stomach Troubles, Come-and-Go Pains, and
that tired feeling.
We don’t ask anyone to take chances on our invention. If we fail the lobs
is ours, all you lose is your time; all we ask is, give us security that you will pay, and
you can have our appliances, and
WHEN CURED, PAY.
We make this proposition to you fairly, and carry it out fairly. You don’t have to pay
till you are cured. We could not do this if our Belt was not the very best. We warrant that
it gives a strong current, and will not burn. We receive thousands of letters from grateful
patients, which can be seen at our office, or copies will be sent by post. Delay no longer.
Write at once. We can help you.
THE DR. AUSTIN IMPROVED ELECTRIC BELT CO.,
317 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
The Bulletin
PRINTED IN ,
SIX COLORS.
POST
NEW SERIES, IV, V, VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TER. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness." From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson. ‘
No. y. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO. AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street , Sydney.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY 1 .
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
*9
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
ħ
The only true and safe remedy for Gou, and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/1A & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
h
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
men
A/VO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &o.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK*
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Paxes
Crown 8vo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ever been mblished.
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and'colored plate,
giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also MIND OVER MATTER ’ and “ BEHIND THE SCENES” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). 15?" /Vote Address
DR. MARTIN , M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elmley House,”
HYDE MRKf^DNEY^ V


our
Now
If you use a Gar-
den Hose now,
you’llgetmoreout
of .your garden
later on more
easure, more
owers, more veg-
ĥ
ħ
Send for
Price Lists
There’s a lot that’s not nearly so
{rood. Our Hose has a reputation
behind it, and every hose we sell
will do that reputation {rood.
Perdriau RubberCo< Ltd -
Manufacturers and Importers,
270 GEORGE "TREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLEJOEN^— W# & 506
/' - ' W
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SOLD BY
ALL FIRST- >
CLASS STORES.
No. 8160 1-BLADE
“PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle - 11-
Buffalo Handle - I/gT'
Stag Handle - - - 1/6
h
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
\ BEST.
A
drink
to be
grateful for.
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
The
beverag'e
that
benefits.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDKTEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Pace, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
Mil. ■■■■■ JL ———mil .Hi. ■■
<s>
V
=0
&
&
©
$
ft
ft
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and thp common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pain 3 and
Soreness at the Chest, and for- Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords welcome relief
in a very short time.
ft.
m
&
ft
&
-
V
r*
&
Id OINTMENT
mm
ms
m
■
fe,v
%wm
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
‘Sole Agents in N.S.W. for
“ATLAS” ENGINES AND BOILERS.
Engines earned in Stock.
The “Atlas 9 ’ manufactures represent the highest develop-
ment of their several types; while the prices are strictly
reasonable. References given to local users. Please write
for prices and particulars.
KEYSTONE PORTABLE DRILLING MACHINES
I^™
Artesian Water Wells
Mineral Prospecting
Alluvial Gold Testing
Oil and Gas Wells
Percussion Core Drilling
Heavy Blast Holes
ĥ
FULL DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUES MAILED FREE.
f OLE N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney.
