

J)
EXCELLENT IN
EVERY WAY
w
PJrnl
0
R. Gr. WATKINS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
> —FOB— • •/-,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
l
ETOBAKT.
• -/'lifc'Y
Ijadiey’s Orient jjotel.
UPS
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.'
J.C.Ludowici & Son. Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., *™I ST -
SOLE ACENTS FOR JEFFREY SYDNEY M -8- w -
LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES for
Elevating & Conveying Any Class of
Material in Bulk, Bales, Boxes, &c.
9 vl Si ill
SEND FOB ILLUSTRATED DESCRIPTIVE LISTS
a
w
Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON S
Pinc-Applc Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S
SAFES
DOORS
LOCKS
Tlafionglj
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society) - W. A. GIBB, Manager.
Active Age ts and Canvassers Wanted.
d uU
Co
ĺ
To Send your WOOL and PRODUCE to
COLDSBROUGH, MORT & GO.
WOOL COMMISSION 2 Per Cent.
The Only Charge to GROWERS.
LIMITED,
E. J. E. MACKENZIE, Manaqbb.
BENSDORPS
Royal
Dutch
mm
IS
FOR^
T*
WUNDERLICH METAL CEILINGS.
Trade Mark. Trade Mark.
s
*;■
“FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIAN CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers—' SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
and Ice-MaKing Machinery.
ļ
A Bottle every morning before breakfast. }
j g »™icrh+ g „f| gU j» rl tt3f f
GOLLJN CO.,
ik &y<r» ro o
The Bulletin
V01.28._N0. 1419.]
[Thursday, April 25, 1907.
"Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
BOOKS
Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd
71 CAKTLEREAQH ST.,
SYDNEY.
Hptius, Whole Art of Billiards, Is 9d, postage 4d.
Wehl), Principles of Horticulture, 2s (id, postage 4d.
Hardie. Serfdom to Socialism, Is, postage 3d.
Snowdon, Socialist Budget, Is, postage 3d.
Stevenson, Child's Garden of Verses, pocket edition,
Hole (Dean), Then and Now, cheap edition, Is 6d,
Johnson, Bible Teaching- by Modern Methods, 4s, p. 6d.
Stevenson, Travels with a Donkey, pocket edition, 2s 6d,
postage 3d.
Lock ley, Rose Growing Made Easy, Is 6d, postage 3d.
pardner of blossom range,
Kv FRANCES CHARLES, author of “In the Country
God Forgot,” 3s 6d, postage 6d.
A STIRRING NEW STORY OF ARIZONA LIFE.
FOR THE LUNGS, THE THROAT, THE VOICE.
The Great. .
ANTISEPTIC
REMEDY
For the Cure or
Bronchitis !
and Influenza !
and the Prevention
of Consumption.
o
A. The Larynx, or organ of voice.
R The Trachea, or windpipe.
O. The Bronchial Tubes of a dissected lung
D. A lobe of one of the lungs.
THE “AUSTRALASIA*
MEDICAL GAZETTE"
says
“Of great service in
affections of
voice and throat.
■ST HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES'*
Unlike Cough Medicines, do not came gastric discomfort or digestive derangement.
“Tun Practitioner " says ;—“ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis, and simuar ailment 4
Sold by all Chemists. Tins, ts. 6a.
THE RED PAGE
THE MAORI, WHITH AND TANNED
A BLEACHED Australian may look
askance at the brown Maori; but
it is possible that the Maori may
have an equal prejudice for the
white Australian’s purple.ance.stor, the Early
Briton. For when the Pakeha discovered:
the Maori, that tanned race had certainly,
by its own efforts, succeeded in reaching a
higher stage of civilisation than that in
which the Phoenician found the Very Early
Briton. A race that existed in dumpy mud
huts, and propelled itself about the swampy
shores in even dumpier coracles, was at least
one stage—represen ting thousands of years of
evolution —behind the Maori, with his finely
decorated and elaborately carved wkfcfes and
his majestic war-canoes. And, since evolu-
tion is slow, it was a fortunate thing that
the Roman sword, reaching out past
the confines Of the civilised world, touched
that acorn-eating heathen in his darkness of
the Western archipelago. A student of
history may note that the Previous Britain,
and in his turn the Saxon, always needed
blending ; their progress depended upon the
infusion of fresh blood ; and, providentially,
Caesar and William of Normandy were ready
at the right time to assist them. Had the
Small and Early Briton been left to himself,
he would have remained to this day a puce
savage, whose highest idea of art was to
stain himself the color of a blackened eye.
The Maori, with his elaborately tatooed face
and body, better appreciated the value of
line in decoration ; while the rough skins in
which the Rather Early Briton clothed the
part of himself that he did not paint cannot
be compared with the wonderfully woven
feather mats of the Maori. But the Helio-
trope Briton was conquered and assimilated
so often, and so long ago, that the bleached
Australian has forgotten these ancestors of
his who ran wild in the bush and, with a
pathetic groping toward artistic effect, blued
themselves all over.
Maor'iland, when discovered by the white
man, was in the occupation of a fierce and
war-like race, whose color was scarcely
darker than the tint assiduously and lovingly
cultivated by the tanned Australian bather.
The early missionaries and settlers, and, later
on, ethnological students' discovered, how-
ever, that the race was not homogeneous ;
and inquiry into the legends of the race
elicited the interesting facts that the Maori
was notan aboriginal, and that traces still
existed of one or more earlier races. Of the
many authorities who have studied this
subject, four may be mentioned Edward
Tregear, author of The Maori Race (A. D.
Willis, Wanganui, M.L.), and the well-known
Maori-Polynesian Comparative Dictionary;
John White, author of an elaborate work
upon the ancient Maori; Sir George Grey,
who has so deftly translated many of the
legends ; and S. Percy Smith, the president
of the Polynesian Society, whose Hawaiki
evidences much research. From these works
the general conclusion may be drawn that
there were two allied races in M.L., the
earlier of which is generally termed the
Moriori (or the Toi), and the later tlie Maori.
Judge J. A. Wilson, author of The Story of
te Waharoa (Whitcombe and Tombs, M.L.)
differentiates these two races as the Maui-
Maori, and the Hawaiki-Maori. In his view
the Maui-Maori is the aboriginal race™ or
possibly a very early comer —and he is so
labelled on account of the legend that, at the
time when the waters covered the earth,
Maui—the Hercules, or hero-god, of
the Maori race—spent what must have
been rather a dreary time fishing from
his canoe. His hook caught something,
and he pulled Maoriland up, landing it high
and dry, his canoe grounding on the top of
Mount Hikiorangi—the Maori Ararat. (This,
by the way, seems to be the biggest fish-
story excant.) The descendants of Maui then
peopled the land, which is called to this day
“TelkaaMaui” —Maui’s Fish. This fish-
yarn does not bear looking into—few fish-
yarns do ; for the existence of the South
Island remains unexplained. Still, as a
fish-yarn, Maui’s catch has our generous
appreciation.
These aborigines were a simple race, know-
ing nothing of the art of cultivation, great
fishers and snarers, alert and courageous
fighters, ignorant of the delicate taste of
human flesh. The history of this race of
autochthons, who can trace their ancestors
back for more than a thousand years—a
Maori in a M.L. land case once claimed
possession on the ground of his direct descent
from Maui—has been partly obliterated
owing to the pardonable habit of the original
tribes now claiming descent through their
conquerors—just as the modem duchess
ignores the Purple Briton arjd claims as
ancestor some French freebooter. On the
arrival of the Hawaiki-Maori the people of
Toi were either exterminated by the new-
comers or in course of time amalgamated with
them. The Uriweras, whose mountainous
territory was the last to feel the impact of the
Pakeha, are probably largely autochthons ;
\and the now almost extinct Morioris of the
Chatham Islands, a race that, alone among
savage races,' uses the paddle as an oar, are
generally regarded as aboriginal refugees
from Maoriland.
Before considering the coming of the
Hawaiki-Maori, who ultimately blended
with the Moriori, it is interesting to note
the claim made by authorities that there
was a yet earlier race—which places the
Moriori himself in the category of an immi-
grant. And what is more remarkable is
that at least two authorities claim that the
original inhabitant, of Maoriland was white.
Evidence of the existence of this race
is to be gleaned from Maori legends, which
teem with references' to ogres and fairies.
Judge Mailing, in his Old Ncic Zealand
(Whitponibe and Tombs, M L.), remarks
upon the belief of the Maori in sea-nymphs
with yellow hair, who “dance on the sands,
and yet no footstep seen ” ; and asks why a
race with black or reddish brown hair should
choose yellow for the tresses of their mer-
maids. And Tregear, in his admirable
Maori Race, points out that the sea-nymphs
were fair-skinned. The Pakeha was so
named from the belief that, being fair, he
must have come from fairyland, bringing
with him his “ fairy-pumice ” (biscuit) and
“ fairy-sand ” (sugar). (This is not the first
time that sugar has been suspected of being
sand.) From these fairy legends Tregear
draws the inference of an aboriginal white
race whose blood ultimately blended with
that of the Uriwera tribe.
It is a well-known theory in Europe, he
remarks, that stories of fairies, elves, gnomes,
etc., are traditional memories of peoples which
once inhabited that continent before the ancestors
of the present Indo-European race arrived and
exterminated the occupant tribes.
This suggestion of an aboriginal white race,
prior even to the Moriori, is expressly
affirmed by Judge Wilson in his Story of
te Waharoa:
It is well- known, he states in bis new preface
(1906), that a people other than the Maui-
Maori nation inhabited Maoriland before the
advent of the Hawaiki-Maori. These were the
Urukehu, or white New Zealanders, with red
hair. This tribe, possibly a remnant of a huger
people, lived as lately as nine generations ago at
Heruiwi and country westward and southward
from there. The Urukehu were not a martial
people. They were unable to resist the Hawaiki-
Maories. . . . Their pa was carried, and thereafter
the Urukehu ceased to be a tribe. . .. Traces of
the Urukehu red hair were frequently visible in
the Bay of Plenty fifty years ago.
Judge Wilson also mentions an ancient pa,
the ramparts of which a Pakeha owner pro-
ceeded to level. In each post-hole, the
wood having long ago decayed, was found a
Tinman skeleton. The pa was evidently of
vast antiquity, and the men that built its
battlements remain a mystery. Judge
Maning is certain that they could not have
been of the Hawaiki- or Maui-Maori race,
“whose traditions, generally precise, would
have furnished a clue.”
Legends state that these first inhabitants
being overcome by stronger peoples, “went
down and lived underground” ; and Kui,
The Old Woman, to whom Maui first gave
the land, is now incarnate in a little beetle ;
while these tribes have now all become “an
indistinct people ” whose voices are heard
only in the mountains. Another legend
states that the South Island was inhabited
by goblins, the Kahui Tipua, or “ Ogre-
band.”
We may, however, leave the tradition of
the White Maori in its misty legends, and turn
now to a consideration of the nature of the
second incursion of an over-seas race. The
origin of the Maori race now in occupation
of the country has been the subject of careful
scientific research. The indications of lan-
guage and appearance seem definitely to
point to India as the parent of the race,
as it was of all races. The theory
is that originally a hill-tribe in the
Himalayas, the predecessor of the Maori
was driven down into India, and, by way of
the Malay Peninsula, gradually voyaged out
into the Pacific. (The Malay was, in all
probability, a later comer to the Peninsula
from the Mongolian seaboard.) The Maori
(or, more generally, the Polynesian) passed
by the Melanesian and Papuan islands, New
Guinea, New Caledonia, etc., inhabited by
black peoples, and reached the Fiji group,
where he made a permanent settlement.
From Fiji, as a centre, he colonised Samoa,
Tonga, Hawaii, even Easter Island. In pro-
cess of time, tlxe Polynesians “hived off’”
from Fiji, and one of these waves of immi-
gration reached Rarotonga, whence an expe-
dition ultimately pushed on to Maoriland.
Tlie original Hawaiki, the cradle of the race,
has been identified as Java —thus Hawaiki
would be “ Hawa-the-little ” —as Vavau, as
Savaii, as Hawaii —all variants of the original
name ; but the quest for the cunabula of the
race is rendered difficult by the Polynesian
custom of giving each successive conquered
country the name of the country they held
in remembrance, just as this State has to
stagger along under the title of New South
Wales because it reminded some idiot of
South Wales. Other evidence, however,
points to the original Hawaiki as being
continental, which thrusts us back again to
Asia, the mother of peoples.
But abandoning legends, with the arrival
of the Hawaiki-Maori in Maoriland we
come down to history. By a careful
comparison of the genealogies of all the
Maori tribes, the date of the migration can
be fixed as late in the thirteenth century
—probably a hundred years before Colum-
bus stumbled upon some islands that
he concluded were the territories of the
Great Khan, or possibly--for Christopher’s
theories were transcendent—the Garden of
Eden. Before considering, the astounding
character of the explorations of the Maori,
it maybe stated that the migration to Maori-
land was no chance voyage, but a deliberate
colonisation scheme. Tradition agrees that
the cause of the migration was that which
founded Home, and which may wreck Aus-
tralia—disputes about land. In Rarotonga,
which was probably the last Hawaiki, the
jumping-off place for Maoriland, an increas-
ing population had created a pressure that
resulted in long-continued wars for the pos-
session of the small available area of land.
One party was weakened in these wars, but
not defeated. The stronger group of tribes
insisted that the others should seek out new
countries for themselves ; but ample time
was given them to make preliminary ex-
plorations, build a flotilla, and arrange the
season of their departure. Thus the Maori
migration was in its nature an assisted emi-
gration scheme. The primary question was
whither these land-seekers should go. Aus-
tralia, whose forbidding northern coasts-
their ancestors had skirted on their voyage
into the Pacific, was apparently unknown to
them ; but of Te Ika a Maui this far-questing
people had evidently some traditions. As
Judge Wilson remarks :
The very terms, their acceptance, and the con-
fidence with which the equipment was made, all
betoken a knowledge of the existence and where-
abouts of another country, to which the emigrants
might go; nor is there anything in -the whole
story to show that they were groping in the dark.
Moreover, the result of the action justifies the
remark. The direction, precision, and success of
their navigation show, speaking colloquially, that
the emigrants knew wh.it they were about.
je
Some tradition must have been extant
either of the earlier migration of the Maui-
Maori to that distant land, or. —if we believe
the Maui-Maori to be an aboriginal, and pos-
tulate the existence of a sunken continent —
of a route between those two lands when the
ocean space between was dotted with now-
vanished islands. The Rarotongans must
have some such tradition indicating the point
towards which their exploring prows should
be turned. Without such a guide, the
chances of the canoes making Maoriland were
altogether remote. Thus, as Judge Mailing
points out ;
Maoriland subtends from Rarotonga (at a dis-
tance, remember, of about 1500 miles) an arc so
small that an error either way of three-quarters
of a point on the compass would send the voyager
wide of the mark, and he would pass the islands
without seeing them. On the other hand, it
mwt be admitted that, as canoes have no hold in
the water, and no weight to meet the ocean swell,
they could not work to windward to explore, nor
could they run to leeward, for fear of not getting
back ; therefore, their movements would be con-
fined to a comparatively limited area while in the
trade wind region. ... In leaving Rarotonga for
Maoriland all these conditions would be fulfilled.
Maori tradition, however, tells of three
shipwrecked mariners discovered by the
aboriginals and assisted to build a canoe to
take them back to their country beyond the
sea, and of another canoe that anticipated
Captain Cook, and returned home with a
report of the land its occupants had dis-
covered. The Maori emigrants certainly
made elaborate preparations for their
voyage. They took with them seeds for
planting (which had to be kept dry in vessels
that continually leaked through the caulking
of the top sides); their dogs, from whose
skins they made their wonderful mats ; and
the Maori rat, esteemed as valuable game.
They also took their wives and families, and
were probably provisioned for a month. Not
least among the provisions must be counted
a batch of slaves for killing, which furnished
fresh food in a very convenient shape. The
canoes, therefore, must have been very large.
It is reckoned that the voyage was done in
about fifteen days, which requires the aston-
ishing average of 100 miles a day.
This (Judge Wilson remarks) is a fair progress
for a canoe sailing half the time on a wind in the
trades, and the other half with variable winds and
perhaps calms. ... The lines of the canoes were
so fine that with a good wind they sailed very
quicklv.
< &
In order to avoid being separated, all the
canoes were at first lashed together ; but at
the beginning of the voyage a storm necessi-
tated the cutting of the lashings, and the flot-
illa was utterly dispersed. Each canoe then
pursued its lonely course upon a line of naviga-
tion determined upon before leaving Hawaiki;
and without compass, quadrant or chart, these
Pilgrim Fathers made their destination with
a marvellous exactitude. They had a work-
ing knowledge of the sun and stars ; and the
excellence of their navigation is evidenced by
the remarkable accuracy with which they
made their landfall at a certain parallel of
latitude. Two of the canoes, the Arawa and
the Tamm-most of the names of the
canoes are now familiar to us as the
names of Maoriland steamships —overshoot-
ing their mark, turnojl back north-
ward when they reached the coast, and
rejoined their companions at Mercury Island.
The latitude was probably determined upon
by the altitude of the stars in the Cross. In
addition, the timeof the migration (December)
shows much forethought. The fine season
had then set in, the hurricane months had
not begun, and there was still time on
arrival to plant their precious seed.
Judge Wilson, in appreciating the skill,
tact and ability of these old navigators,
asks :
Could the certificated sailor of the present age
have done better ? Deprive him of his appliances,
his compass, chronometer, and chart, his sextant
and nautical almanac, and see then whether his
intrinsic qualities would, on the same voyage,
have enabled him to do better—especially if put
into a long, lean, rather leaky open boat, that had
no draught, could he have sailed her better, have
kept a perishable cargo better, or maintained a
better discipline amongst a numerous company
of both sexes ?
■ As a final proof of the expert navigation
of the Maori Pilgrim Fathers, it is necessary
only to mention that of the canoes —Judge
Wilson gives the names of thirteen that
arrived in the first great migration, while
Judge Maning makes the fleet consist of 22
canoes—eight managed to make land on the
east coast of the North Island, after a voyage
of 1500 miles, within a space of 2|- degrees of
latitude. They all came straggling in singly,
and four of them within thirty miles of each
other.
So this race of navigators, warriors, and
Colonisers made the new land their home,
behaved at first with circumspection towards
the numerous aborigines, introduced the arts
of cultivation and cannibalism, and multi-
plied exceedingly. Of their colonisation of
Maoriland it be expedient to write anon.
Poems, by Edwin Exon (with portrait) (T. C.
Lothian, Melb.), may be safely stowed away in
the lower pigeon-holes of Australian verse V 4.
It contains much well-intentioned verse, but
Edwin Exon (with portrait) seems to have but a
faint conception of blank verse. Consider the
blankiness of this :
“ The assumption is
That the Impossible cannot exist
'For the Almighty or Omnipotent.”
The contents include a Jubilee Ode performed by
the authority of the Government of Victoria in
Melbourne at the celebration of the jubilee of
Queen Vidtoria. The white-haired portrait looks
old enough to have had more discretion.
The amateur epigrammatist flourishes jn Phila-
delphia. He and she exercise a rather mechanical
dexterity’ upon the theme of love, and Henry
Altemus andG. W. Jacobs provide the apothegms
withadaintyanddecorativedress. FromDymocks
(Sydney) comes a batch of these little booklets,
from which we may select for the frivolous a few-
more or less obvious remarks :
An amazing quantity of good woman goes to
Affinity is powder, proximity is the match, and
you are the fool. , . .
A woman’s way out of an embarrassing position
is hysterics ; a man’s, the door.
The difference ’twixt a kiss on the brow ana a
kiss on the lips is that, whereas the first has
finished its travels in the act, the second has
only just started out.
It isn’t so much that a woman wouldn t, but
she bates you to think she would.
Woman spends half her life deceiving herselt-
the other half before the mirror. It’s the same
thing. .
In the female vocabulary, men may come ana
men may go, but shops go on forever. ,
Half the failures of wedded life are due to mans
inability to temper justice with mercy. The other
half are due to woman’s inability to temper out-
lay with income.
The price of matrimony is eternal reticence.
Beauty is short-lived ; the most beautiful thing
God ever made was the Day, which lives but ■
twenty-four hours. . , !
To beg a pretty girl for a kiss is no sm; tne
wrong lies in her giving such a treasure to a
beggar. , ,
Man proposes, and woman forecloses.


We Strongly Recommend “ LASSETTER’S CROCKERY.”
All “ Noted Good Values ” and “ Goods of Quality.”
STOCK PATTERNS OF DINNER. SERVICES
The meaning of “Stock Pattern” is that you are always able to purchase
any separate part of the Set to make up for breakages you may have.
A FEW
THE “PARIS” PATTERN DINNER SERVICE.
A Beautiful Silver-Grey or Brown, on best Semi-Porcelain Ware,
26 pieces, 20s; 50 pieces, 35s ; 56 pieces, 38s ; 71 pieces, 64s 6d ; 90 pieces, 87s.
THE “PARIS” SERVICE.
Price of Separate Pieces.
Dinner Plates
Pudding Plates
Cheese Plates
Soup Plates...
Salad Bowls
doz. 6s
doz. 5s
doz. 3s 6d
doz. 6s
each 3s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Meat Dishes, actual measure-
ment —
12in
14in
16in
18in
20in
20in., Well ...
... each Is
... each Is 6d
... each 2s 6d
... each 3s 6d
each 5s 6d
... each 8s Gd
Price of Separate Pieces.
Vegetable Dishes... each 3s 6d
Soup Tureens ... each 15s
Sauce Tureens ... each 3s 6d
Gravy Boats ... each Is
Pie Dishes, 9in. ... each Is
Ditto, llin. ... each Is 6d
ess
i PT
<•%>
THE “DUCHESS” PATTERN DINNER SERVICE.
Peacock Color. Pattern neatly traced in Gold.
26 pieces, 27s ; 50 pieces, 48s; 56 pieces, 51s 6d; 70 pieces, 82s.
The “DUCHESS” SERVICE
Price of Separate Pieces.
Dinner Plates
Pudding Plates
Cheese Plates
Soup Plates ...
Salad Bowls ...
... doz. 7s 6d
... doz. 6s 6d
... doz. 4s 6d
... doz. 7s 6d
... each 4s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Meat Dishes, actual measurement —
12 in. ... 1 each Is 6d
14 in each 2s 6d
16 in each 3s 6d
18 in. ... each 5s 6d
20 in. ... ... ... each 7s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Vegetable Dishes
Soup Tureens ...
Sauce Tureens ...
Gravy Boats
each 4s 6d
each 18s 6d
each 5s
each Is 3d
THE "PI RCIVAIi ” PATTERN DINNER SERVICE.
Handsome Design on Cream Body. Floral Sprays in Natural Colors. Every Piece Gilt.
26 pieoes, 355; 50 pieces, 61s ; 56 pieces, 65s 6d ; 71 pieces, £5 4s ; 90 pieces, £6 19s 6d.
THE “ PERCIVAL” SERVICE,
Price of Separate Pieces.
Dinner Plates ... doz. 9s
Pudding Plates ... doz. 7s 6d
Cheese Plates - ... doz. 6s
Soup Plates ... doz. 9s
Salad Bowls ... each 4s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Meat Dishes, actual measure-
ment —
12in
14in
ICin. ...
IBin, .:.
20in
20in., Well ...
each 2s 3d
each 3s 6d
each 4s 9d
each 6s 6d
eaah 8s 6d
each 12s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Vegetable Dishes ... each 6s
Soup Tureens ... each 22s
Sauce Tureens ... each 6s
Gravy Boats ... each Is 6d
Pie Dishes, 9in. ... each Is 9d
Ditto llin. ... each 2s 3d
Fish Drainers ... each 4s
V %
, jgomi
*SL!
{7ft
m ns
®§K!
EJ* ?wri
BSWIKM
nvr>
\ ■ . /_i
THE “OXFORD” PATTERN DINNER SERVICE
Pink Border. Every Piece Gilt-Edged.
26 pieces, 31s; 50 pieces, 54s 6d ; 56 pieces, 59s ; 71 pieces, £4 15s ; 90 pieces, £6 8s.
THE “OXFORD” SERVICE.
Price of Separate Pieces.
Dinner Plates ... doz. 8s 6d
Pudding Plates
Cheese Plates
Soup Plates ...
Salad Bowls ...
doz. 7s 6d
doz. fis
doz. 8s 6d
each 5s 3d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Meat Dishes,
ment—
L2in
14in
16in
18in
20in
20in., Well ...
actual measure-
each Is 9d
each 2s 9d
each 3s 9d
each 5s 6d
each Bs.
each 12s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Vegetable Dishes ... each 5s 3d
Soup Tureens ... each 20s
Sauce Tureens ... each 5s 3d
Gravy Boats ... each Is 6d
Pie Dishes, 9in. ... each Is 6d
Ditto, llin. ... each 2s
Fish Drainers ... each 4s
THE “GLOUCESTER” PATTERN LIGHT BLUE DINNER SERVICE.
26 pieces, 17s; 50 pieces, 30s; 56 pieces, 32s 9d; 71 pieces, 58s 6d ; 90 pieces, 76s 6d.
THE “GLOUCESTER” SERVICE, EIGHT BLUE.
Price of Separate Pieces.
Dinner Plates ... doz. 5s 6d
Padding Plates ... doz. 4s 6d
Cheese Plates ... doz. 3s
Soup Plates doz. 5s 6d
Salad Bowls ... each 2s 6d
Cheese Stands ... each Is 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Meat Dishes, actual measure-
ment —
12in
14in
16in
18in
20in
20in. Well ...
each Is
each Is 6d
each 2s
each 3s
each 4s 3d
each 6s 6d
Price of Separate Pieces.
Vegetable Dishes ... each 2s 9d
Soup Tureens ... each 16s
Sauce Tureens ... each 2s 9d
Gravy Boats ... each 9d
Pie Dishes, 9in. ... each Is
Ditto, 1 lin. ... each Is 6d
Fish Drainers ... each Is 6d
1 m
WL&k
THis Page is taken from one of the 1000 in our new general illustrated
catalogue, “ THe Buyer's Encyclopaedia," sent free upon request.
F. LAISISETTER & Co. Ltd.,
THe Universal Providers,
CHEAPSIDE,
SYDNEY
The Bulletin
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1907.


RABBIT SKINS WANTED.
Also KANGAROO, WALLABY,
OPOSSUM, &c.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO., Ltd., Commission Salesmen Only, SYDNEY.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
• S YDNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who special attention
to -dfepSSin- to wr.y'-bestradTan-tage. - Account Sales rendered:
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free-storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application. ", ' :
Sole Agents in N.S.AV. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.” -
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
ļ
ľ
Will stop the most
vicious dog (or
man) without per-
manent injury.
Invaluable for
cyclists, unprotected ladies, night
watchmen, and others. Oan be *
charged with water or other liquids,
and will carry a distance of 25 feet,
It creates great amusement for
both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable, and economical novelties ever produced.
Price 2/6, or post free anywhere for 2/9.
The “Joker” Trick Match Box
The box
can be
filled with
matches,
and then
clos ed,
and, to'
the
a m a z e-
ment of.
ŀ
your friends, upon re-opening- the box the matches
have completely disappeared. A great joke on
cadgers, who, upon begging a match, are shown
the empty box, and the next moment, if the owner
chooses, he may help himself to a match from the
same box. Strongly made of polished nickel, and
can be carried-in the vest pocket. Price, with
full directions, 7el. post free.
MAGIC CIGARETTE CASE, holds 10 Cigarettes
and works same way as Match Bex. Post free
anywhere for 1/-. Write for Price List B.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
H. L. HUTCHINSON,
Box 3, P.O. HAYMARKET,
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Jolted Cigar Case.
A great joke on Cadgers. On removing the lid,
four cigars, which appear to be” quite genuine, are
shown. Invite your friend to have cigar, which
offer he readily accepts, and immediately he
attempts to help himself a'Slight pressure of the
button causes the cigars to spring out and the
figure-head to appear in their place, giving your
friend a great surprise. Creates lots of amuse-
ment. Strongly and neatly made. Price, packed
Securely and posted free'to any part of the world,
on receipt of 1/2.
The Squirt
Camera.
One of the most
amusing jokes to be found
in our varied stbck. Only-
clean water required for
worKiiig, and it can be used
as often as the operator
ehooses,-free of-eost. Ask
one of your friends would
he like his photo, taken,
ł
and, when he accepts, request him to put on his best smile and
look straight at the camera. Then withdraw the slide at back
of camera, and when your victim is quite still press the ball
inside the camera, and your friend gets the greatest shock
he ever had in his life. “Strongly made of wood,'with Strong
self-filling rubber ball for holding the water. Price Sc/,
post free anywhere.. Wholesale and Retail.
>fc
CREATE STRENGTH, ENERGY and VIGOR.
TAOR some time now these PILLS have been restoring to HEALTH
■V when all other REMEDIES and METHODS OF TREATMENT
' HAVE FAILED ... .
YOUNG, OLD and WEAK MEN and WOMEN
who are suffering from Weakness, Want of Strength and Vigor,
Varicocele, due to some forms of INDISCRETION, DISSIPATION,
MENTAL ANXIETY, or the RESULT OF OLD AGE.
THEY WILL POSITIVELY GIVE
STRENGTH, VITALITY, VICOR.
Solk Agent—
l
NO HUMBUG
or QUACKERY.
10/6 a Bottle.
COMPLETE
Two Bottles, £1
COURSE.
POSTED FREE IN
PLAIN WRAPPER.
S. H. HENSHALL, 246 Clarendon St., South Melbourne, Vic
FREE!
MAKE BIG MONEY
We give away TALKINC MACHINES,
COLD WATCHES, JEWELLERY, &c.,
to thpse who help us introduce our remedies. This Talking Machine
reproduces Songs, Speeches, Band Music, &c., and can be used at all
entertainments, in anv size hall or room. It has a 14-inch Metal
Amplifying Horn, with Concert Base. Many of our agents are making
big money by giving concerts with this machine, which we give away
Free. Send us your name and address, and we will send you 8 boxes
of our New Life Vegetable Pills (Formulas printed on each box). Sell
them at 1/- a box'"then remit usrtherSf- received- and we will promptly-
forward you, without extra expense or work, the valuable premiums as
listed, this is the biggest offer ever made, and you will be delighted.
We are an old, reliable firm, and we will present £lO in cash to anyone
who can prove we do not do as we say. Our Pills are good sellers, and
we are anxious to introduce them no matter what it costs us. Send at
once. Don’t delay, it costs you nothing to try. We take all risk.
Electine Medicine Co., 170 Ash St., Sydney
Free
&100
a WeeK
Given
Away
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DjsjPY COMPBTITIOWr.
WINES ----- Best .Brands Only of SPIRITS.-
* MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
w —
EMEMBER what a shock you got when you first realised that you had
developed a “ bald spot ” 1 Barber had no trouble inducing you to have
vour hair singed when you next visited him ? (The hair is not a tube’
therefore you wasted time and money there.) The shampoos you had
left the cause untouched, and the oils and greasy preparations you used
only helped to smother the life from the delicate hair bulbs, and
actually fed the bacteria that was causing the trouble.
“ That Bald Spot ” still goes on growing larger and larger. Beginning to feel
like resigning yourself to the inevitable ? Don’t be discouraged. Take a good
long look at that scalp of yours. Any “down” there? Yes? YOUR BALD-
NESS IS CURABLE. lam prepared to give you a written guarantee that
“ Cap HI a ” will give you back
your hair.
CAPILLA
HAIR TONIC
will force that “ down ” into strong, healthy
hair, or refund you the cost of the prepara-
tion. It’s a straightforward proposition
from a man who honestly believes in the
merits of his remedy, and who wants those
who act on his advice to be nothing out of
pocket. It’s a fair offer. Are you going to
avail yourself of it? STOP ! DON’T leave it
till to-morrow. Go to your chemist or store
and buy a bottle of “ Capilla ” TO-DAY, or write me NOW! You’ll save hair
and money by acting NOW.
CAPILLA Hair Tonic is sold everywhere at Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d. a bottle, full course of 6 bottles
posted direct (undercover) for 17s. 6d. ; (Inter-State, 19s. 2d.), from the inventor, W. OLIVER
RICHARDS, 131 Imperial Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
CONICAL BALL
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
oii3 of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
ENOS FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
‘FRUIT
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
AND CONSTIPATION.
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.— Sae Capsule marked EHO'S ' FRUIT SALT,* Without It you hard •
WORTHLESS IMITATION .
Px«pir«d only by J. O. ENO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. LONDON. ENG.,
by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
ARTER*
mn rms’§ Onwlf cpoilils.
BILLS
For TORPID LIVER.
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION.
, should know that Liver Disorder*
Every man and WO**“ Pimples and Sallow Stan,
injure the complexion, '™^ c CA r T ERS LITTLE LIVER
Remove the cause y, fight Consfipaton. Begin at
Swii“ came®* uttif SIKJ
SEgsas*
Tho Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pilla Must Bear Signature of
l


Wliilo thin hair and baldness are
undesirable for men, they are vastly
more so for women. Nothing adds
more to the adornment of women
than rich, heavy, flowing tresses.
The hair is too valuable to allow it
to suffer from neglect. So just as
soon as you notice that your hair is
coming out you should use
Mger’s
Mair Vigor
r'r
cO- ,g
It checks falling of
the hair promptly.
This feature of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor is now
recognized as most
marked, and has
brought to this prep-
aration a world-wide
reputation.
You cannot possi-
bly have a splendid
head of hair when the
scalp is covered with
dandruff. We urge
upon all who are in
any w'ay troubled
with dandruff to be-
gin the use of Ayer’s
Hair Vigor at once.
Do not be deceived
by cheap imitations which will only
disappoint you. Make sure you get
AYER’S Hair Vigor.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
f
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an) one, on ten daya’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try Fiyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient postage,
lor free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
an sample machine. * i
MEAD CYCLE GO., w sso LIVERPOOL
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., Y., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d .
A Picture of
HEALTH
The Evidence
from, 250, Edgware Road , Newtown ,
N.S.W., May Ist, 1906 :
“Without success I tried many pre-
parations for my daughter Lillian,
who suffered at various times from
measles, rheumatism, eczema, and
consumption of the bowels; in fact,
she was so ill that I thought she would
die. Then I tried Scott’s Emulsion
with such good results that she has
gained considerably in weight, her
flesh is firm and solid, and she is a
picture of health and vigour.”
(Mrs.) V. FILEWOOD.
The Reason WHY
She Grew Strong
<£ Scott’s Emulsion suited her
because of its sweet, pleasant taste,
and its digestibility. This is the
result of the Scott process of manu-
facture (the outcome of 30 years’
experience in making cod liver oil
emulsion) of which you get the ad-
vantage in Scott’s, and no other.
TRADE MARK
Then, again, the cod liver
oil used in Scott’s is the
purest, finest, most in-
vigorating in the world.
C “ The fishman with the
fish” on the package
assures to you results
every bit as good as Mrs.
Filewood got.
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
From all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines
• -- - v >: - .iff'..
o
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
IRISH MOSS
«dSSf5Ks«i&
GEORGE-^BONNINGTO
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
STOP THAT PAIN
“ There is only one Disease—
CONGESTION”
“ There is only one Cure—
CIRCULATION.”
THE ...
Lambert Snyder
Health Vibrator
(20,000 VIBRATIONS THE MINUTE)
The Most Benificent
Invention of the Age.
Instant relief from Rheumatism, Deafness, indigestion, Poor Circulation, or
dny Pains or Aches. In cases of Paralysis,, Locomotor Ataxia,- Lumbago, Weak
Eyes, Hay Fever, Obesity, Insomnia, Loss of Voice, Neurasthenia, Brain Fag,
Vertigo, Headache, Constipation, Torpid Liver, and Lung Trouble, our Vibrator
does marvellous work—and is a good exerciser. •
Don’t Wait, Don’t Suffer. GET A VIBRATOR and GET RELIEF.
The Lambert Snyder Health Vibrator is the only hand Viferatoi* in the'wSrld that gives direct true vibration.
We are receiving daily tfnsolicited testimonials from all part's of the dountry.c You can use it yourself, and it
is always ready, and will last for years. Used everywhere and endorsed by over 6000 physicians.
The Price of this WONDERFUL APPLIANCE is 15/-, and Postage, Packing, etc., 1/6 extra, making
altogether 16/6. POST FREE to your Address. Send for our FREE BOOK, that will tell'you all about it.
(Agents wanted in every town.) Australasian Agents—
THE COOPER DRUG CO., 88 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON
COMPOUNDS
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALEi STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Box 1202 G.P.O.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.” ™£SZg£}. t 3B£r"
The HIGH-CUSS WASHING MATERIAL
7
V
DOES NOT
SHRINK.
DAY and
NIGHT
WEAR.
Economical
BECAUSE
Durable.
From i
Leading
Diapers.
’
The Queen says:—"You can wear it for
night dresses all the year round,”
SEE THE LABEL ON THE StLvtDGE,
By
Royal, Warkan
.Purveyors to
ĺ
His Majesty the
King and
Royal Family.
IF YOU REQUIRE A DELICACY, COMBINED
WITH GREAT NOURISHMENT, USE
MOIR’S
11 MAYFAIR ”
Jelly Crystals
SUPERIOR FLAVOURS AND VERY
TRANSPARENT.
TRY...
MOIR’S
Worcester Sauce
t is Replacing All Others, on account of its
EXCELLENT QUALITY and GUARANTEED
JOHN MOIR AND SON, UHITED,
London, Aberdeen, and Seville.
Sydney Agency: 47 Macquarie Street,
Circular Quay.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and oth< r
ins-cts, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s j
20 % Carbolic Soap. «
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases. 1
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, (
dade by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng. 1
NATURE’S
PERFECT FOOD
Plasmon
THE CONCENTRATED
PROTEID
(NOURISHMENT)
V - OF
FRESH IN FINE
POWDER.
PLASMON
Custard and
Blanc=Mange
DELICIOUS © DAINTY
FOOD
FOR HOT WEATHER.
PLASMON $
Cream
WITH FRUIT, OR Fc|<
AFTERNOON TEA
WITH
PLASMON
Biscuits $
MAKE A DELIGHTFuIi
MEAL. V
PLASMON §
MilK Chocolate
A DAINTY NIBBLE. V
AsK your
GROCER, STORES or
CHEMIST.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Kid.
Through times both frolicsome and gay,
Through seasons sad and jolly,
Through all the years to this grey day—
Lone day and melancholy !
He calls her “ Kid it is his way
Of keeping up the folly.
Just “Kid.” She loves it. Oh, a thrill
Steals to her grey old spirit.
Just at the sound, she glows until
Her spinster mind does fear it,
And with an effort of the will
Forgets that she did hear it.
His marriage has not interfered
With their old terms platonic';
The wife lias only mildly sneered
At spinsterhood that’s ohroniq.
But her lone life has him endeared—
She is his great nerve tonic. !
And he is proud to have her care,
And sympathy and caution, j
To have her take the lion’s share
Of his grief, and a portion i
Of his good spirits debonair
When smiles the goddess Fortune.
And so she plays her kindly part,
And thinks not of romancing.
There is no guile in her grey heart,
But,sometimes, Memory glancing
Back at “Kid, dear,” her dreanis w.ll start
Arid raise a theme entraricing;
Then pass away and leave her cold,
And grey, and empty-handed ;
Her arms have never known Love’s fold
(His are at home demanded).
And so the “ Kid ’’—good mate of old—
A spinster grey is stranded.
vio.
EUGENIA STONE.
Goths of Ocean.
Ages back Goths of the ocean
Mustered their legions of worth,
Swore them to deadly devotion,
Warred with the fair queen of earth ;
Stormed they the forts of the marges,
Thundered in impotent wrath,
Awed with fierce cavalry charges,
And with great cannon belched forth.
Stormed they, and wavered, and thundered,
Rallied and snapped at the fort.
Till the grim rankers were sundered,
Great was the havoc they wrought;
Back they fell, beaten, but 'savage,
Snarling like hounds in retreat,
Baulked of their pillage and ravage,
Rankling with shame of defeat.
Heralds they sent to the fortress, \
Conquered, yet sullen, a-ruse, ;
And they made peace with the J fortress,
Peace that was only a truce,
And a fair tribute they brought her—
Laces, and jewels, and gold,
Spices from over the water,
Gems that the waters enfold.
But the wild legions that lusted,
Brooded in barbaric pride,
Never again to be trusted,
Ever to fear and diffide.
On the blue rim of the vastness ,
Scouts trail, alert but debarred, V
On the grim walls of the fastness B
Sentinels watch them, on guard.
Scouts that sweep down to the still lee,
Wet with scarred veterans’ gore,
Idle till muster-horns shrilly
Sound the reveille of war;
Then, with hoarse shouts of defiance,
Swiftly the cavalcade looms,
Arching its back with reliance,
Flaunting white banners and plumes.
Hurled at the fortress they rend her,
Brazen as scourings of hell ; - -
Lord of the Universe, fend her,
How the fierce cavalry yell !
Thunder the guns as they rake her,
Scream the shrill shells as they fly ;
How the masked batteries shake her !
Then they fall backward to die !
Such arq the Goths of the ocean,
Such the dire purpose they sought,
Ever with haughty commotion,
Vengeful, they menace the fort.
Ships, perchance, lured to betrayal,
Lives, alas,, crushed on the rock,
But the stern ramparts prevail
And the scarred sentinels mock.
N.s.w.
W. M. WHITNEY.
A Cemetery.
Here, in the well-filled dining-room of worms,
I sit in moody vein, not to deplore
Our life’s futility in measured terms,
But rather those who revel in such lore.
“ The path of glory leads but to the grave
A saying trite, for ev’ry path goes there ;
The worm dines on the hero and the slave
Alike, on old and ugly, young aqd fair.
And wherefore grieve ? We live noixfor that end ;
’Twixt dawn and sunset there are many hours
In which upon our graveward path We trend ;
’Tis our own failure if we miss the flowers.
These mounds cry on the vanity of man
Who toils in travail for a. future year :
“ Take life and live ; seize all the mirth youvcan ;
You will be grave enough when you come here ! ”
N.S.W.
HAMER.


'So
(the Commonwealth's Lady Champion
Swimmer) writing of
CADBURY'S
ABSOLUTELY
PURE
Says “I find it more nourishing and sustaining than any other.'
All who use it speak in equally high praise of its sterling qualities.
AVhether your life is spent in the open air, undertaking tests of strength and
m endurance, or in the equally arduous duties of the office, workshop, home,
f etc., it is imperative that you should take an abundance of pure liquid food.
Amongst liquid foods, CADBURY'S COCOA, occupies the chief place
because it is ABSOLUTELY PURE. It gives substantia'
benefit to the muscular and nervous system, and at the same
time can be absorbed with little digestive effort.
“A Perfect Food.” —Health
insist on getting CADBURY’S.
7.
WHAT DOES YOUR HCE COST YOU?
]
K€ MACHINE
IS A MONEY-SAVER.
npHE loss of perishable poods in the sultry Summer
* Weather is always considerable, and in large pri-
vate or public establishments makes a serious item
during the year. All this can be easily prevented by
the purchase of a BRUNSWICK, which may be
described as a cold storage and ice-making and refriger-
ating machine in one. The smallest size BRUNSWICK
gives refrigeration, or cold dry air, equal to the melting
power of 2001 b. of ice. Put 2001 b. blocks of ice in an
ice chest and you will get the same result; but this
would be unpracticable on account of its expense. It costs
very little with a BRUNSWICK—J-h.p. only required.
Write for full particulars and Illustrated
Catalogue post free on application.
Sole Agents,
BUZACOTT & CO., Ltd., 7 & 9 Market St., Sydney.
C.R. TAILOR-MADE O.D.
CORSETS. V BJI
Are the most successful corset design ever created*
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All 0.8.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
ļ
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands of
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fi anted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE
STORES IN AUSTRALASIA.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
A. E. WITTEY, York Street, SYDNEY.
J. BUNTING, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
3 ROYAL WARRANTS SINCE 1848.
Johnßeccs.
Scotch whisky
/
m
A
A
A
7,
7)
ALL THE ROYAL PALACES SUPPLIED
FOR UPWARDS OF 60 YEARS.
By Royal Warrant to
l
His Majesty The King.
BOVRIL
The flavour, essence, nutriment and all that’s good in prime
ox-beef is concentrated in Bovril.
A little Bovril added to soups and made dishes renders them
more appetising- and nutritious.
Beautiful Home Decorations
&J
easily and economically obtained by the most
inexperienced. Unlimited decorative possibilities.
"OUR FAVORITE” GOLD EIVAMM, (Washable) - Rich and
durable as real gold. Withstands wear and tear, handling and \va slung
without tarnishing. For Furniture, Frames, Lamp and Gas Fixtures,
etc. Highest class gilding enamel. Inexpensive; easily applied;
"SAPOUIV ESfAMEUS.” For decorating the brilliant white and
colors. A beautiful china gloss surface for Furniture, Metal Beds and
any other article.
•• SAI'OM.V” BATH TUB EJVAMEU. In White, Bose, Ivory
and Bile Green. Withstands hot water. Porcelain finish, which will
not come off. For sale at all up-to-date dealers. Avoid imitations.
Successfully used in this climate for over 20 years.
GERSTENDORFER BROS., New York, U. S. A.
Also makers of JAPANESE GOLD PAINT, “SAPOLIN ” FLOOR
STAINS, “ SAPOLIN ” ALUMINUM ENAMSL, Etc.
o
And a Few of the Firms Selling It.
SYDNEY -
Goodlet & Smith, Ltd.
Saxton & Binns, Ltd.
F. Lassetter & Co. Ltd.
James Sandy & Co.
COUNTRY—
Fredk. Ash, Ltd., Newcastle
F. Braund & Co., Armidale
J. F. Utz & Co., Glen Innes
T. J. Treloar & Co., Tam worth
Lewis Bros. & Co., Tamworth
C. Rogers & Co., Goulburn
Geo. Lansdown, Goulburn
A. Parsons &, Co., Wollongong
Bracey’s Limited, Lithgow
Holds worth, Macpherson & Co.
John Mclntosh & Sons
W. Cary <fc Sons
Grace Bros. C. G. Hatte, Ltd.
M. Campbell & Co., Ltd., Scone & Muswellbrook/
E. Rich & Co., Ltd., Bourke &, Brewarrina
Grainger and Falkmer, Ltd., Singleton
James Moore & Co., Ltd., Singleton
Sanderson & Taj lor, Tumut
Fredk. Hall, Coolarnon
E. Webb & Co., Bathurst
W. S. Millard, Young
J. G. Brown, Dubbo
m
...
•111.
UP
ĺ


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 28. No. 1419.
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1907.
Pbioe 6d.
THE POOR OLD MA STATE.
A MIXED PICTURE REFLECTING THE MIXED WEEPS OF THE SYDNEY ANTI-FEDERAL PRESS
THE UNFILIAL DAUGHTER: "Yes, this is going to be the Federal Capital site, and I’ve made it cold on purpose.
and you've got to stay here and be robbed; and .f you whimper much more I'll take that cloak from you.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Atistralinns.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £ l6 0
Half-yearly t .. ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin ivould oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded luithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllaoJs and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event.,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central Netvs Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; and others.
V ancou ver. —'Thomson Stationery Co. , Vancouver , B. C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt.- —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Agents ’ Special Notice.
Tiie Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. xllfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
T^uT^xzlleZzAi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1907.
AN EMPTY LAND AND A BLATANT
LANDLORD AND AN IDEAL.
Things are changing a little in the Australian
land business. The trek of the Tasmanian farmer
over to Victoria to get away from his big land-
lord, and then his further trek, with the Victorian
farmer for company, into N.S.W., because he
finds the Victorian big landlord as bad as the
Tasmanian one, still continue. But there is now
something of a new development; the Victorian
and Tasmanian farmers mostly keep on to South
Queensland, taking a fair amount of the N.S.W.
agriculturist—fleeing from his big and bloated
landlord —with them, and for the moment Kid-
ston’s State is the Promised Land for the man
who raises the wheat and pursues the early morn-
ing Cow. All three States—Tasmania, Victoria and
N. S. W. —are fussing bitterly about ‘ ‘ the settlement
of the people on the land,” and every Government
in these States makes that “ settlement ” a leading
feature of its policy; and yet the people don’t
“settle.” The three Governments know that
they don’t settle, and also know why they don’t
settle, and they likewise know that until some-
one moves the big outrageous landlord out of the
way there is no hope of any very great settlement.
Yet with this knowledge they continue not to move
the big landlord—except occasionally, and then
on such ruinous terms that when the land is
“thrown open for selection ” no one can afford to
occupy it unless he is prepared to struggle with
an incredible load of debt, by working 14 hours a
day for very little, and making his wife and
children slave at a salary of nothing per
annum, paid irregularly. Settlement on land
which the State has acquired from the
big cormorant by voluntary purchase is a
matter which makes the settler coarse and grasp-
ing and prematurely old ; which makes his wife,
while she is yet young, a gaunt, joyless, leather-
faced apparition in squalid brown clothes, and his
children loveless, embittered, unlettered animals,
who have never known anything but toil and
Cow. A miserably scanty population, not one-
tenth the number required to defend this country
as the most advanced outpost of the British
Empire should be defended; a scarce and harassed
little farmer who hardly cares what becomes of
the country; a loafing, unhappy, supercilious land-
lord with indigestion and much more money than
he knows what to do with ; and an empty land—
these are the results of the present land system
of Australia.
• *
The present population of Australia is about
five persons to four square miles—and yet the
country is suffering from land famine. It is
quite possible for a country to suffer from land
famine even if there are only five persons to 400
square miles; if sufficient of the land is held
empty and unsettled by the unpatriotic owners of
big estates, then two cocky-farmers, looking for
farms in a fertile area the size of Europe, would
make a land famine. Australia, which has only
begun to be settled, is suffering more from the
artificially-created scarcity of soil than Germany
with its average of about 300 people to the mile,
and there are five principal reasons for this state
of things:—
(1) The produce of the land is carried by rail at a mere
fraction of the rate charged for other goods, and the
country districts are not required to make up the
deficits on the working of their own lines. This leaves
the tenant farmer a larger margin to pay to the
landlord as rent, and the value of land is based on the
rent.
(2) In almost every part of Australia the country dis-
tricts are very lightly taxed as compared with the towns
and cities. The country municipalities receive subsidies
while the urban ones do not, and in many cases they also
receive special grants, largely at the expense of the urban
districts, for roads and other works. This exemption
from taxation leaves the tenant-farmer a larger margin
to pay to the landlord as rent, and (for the second time
of mentioning) the value of land is based on the rent.
(3) It has come to be understood, as a matter of privi-
lege and habit, that the agriculturist shall be exempt
from the laws as to hours of labor, wages, and
workers’ accommodation, which add to the cost of urban
industries ; that he may work his hired assistants about
twice as long as the city employer for half the pay ;
that his wife shall be a beast of burden without pay ; and
that he may commence to work his children without
remuneration when they have hardly emerged from
infancy, though if a city employer put them to much
lighter work for shorter hours at fair remuneration he
would be heavily fined. These exemptions leave the
tenant farmer another large margin to pay to the land-
ord —the landlord is a marvel at gathering in margins
—and (for the third time of mentioning) the value of land
is based on the rent.
(4) Then, when all these exemptions and subsidies have
enabled the tenant to pay the landlord nearly twice the
rent he could pay if he were placed under the same con-
ditions as the city employer, and the selling price of
the land has consequently been artificially multiplied
by two or thereabouts, another point arises. The value
of land is further enhanced by its scarcity. In Tasmania,
for instance, out of 5,339,000 acres in private lands,
nineteen-twentieths , or 95 acres out of every 100, are kept
out of cultivation, mostly by great landlords, and the
rush for the other five acres is something dreadful. In
Victoria, the best-cultivated State of Australia, out of
26,400,000 acres in private hands, over 22,000,000 (say ,85
per cent., or 85 acres out of every 100) are similarly kept
out of cultivation, and the rush for the other 15 acres is
something terrible. Tasmania has about seven people to
the square mile ; the artificially-created famine makes
the struggle for land, and consequently the price of land,
quite as great as if there were 140. Victoria has 14
people to the square mile, but the artificially-created
scarcity makes the struggle as great as if there were
over 100.
• • • •
And, finally, when the value of land has been
raised (1) by absurd reductions of railway rates,
(2) by subsidies and endowments and tax exemp-
tions, (3) by the use of cheap labor working long
hours for low wages, and the use of enslaved wife
and child labor working long hours for no wages
at all, and when it has (4) been further enhanced
by an artificially-created scarcity, just as the
price of bread may be run up to a famine level in
a year of splendid harvests if a syndicate corners
the wheat supply and keeps 80 per cent, of it off
the market —when all these iniquities have taken
place there is a further disturbing element: —
(5) The price of land is regulated, in the last resource,
by the price which the last possible fool will pay for it.
When the price of land has been boosted up by considera-
tion No. 1, and further unnaturally elevated by condition
No. 2, and lifted to another ridiculous pinnacle by iniquity
No. 3, and shoved up out of sight by circumstance No. 4,
that last possible fool comes in to artificially enhance it by
way of being curse No. 5. The said fool is the Govern-
ment which adopts the policy of voluntary purchase of
big estates for cutting-up purposes. There is no
compulsion to sell ; there is neither a graduated
land-tax nor a limit to the amount of land which one
owner can hold, so as to prevent new big estates forming
by foreclosure or otherwise, as fast as the old ones are
pulled to pieces; therefore the Government that comes in
with a voluntary purchase system is only one more rich,
hungry, excited competitor clamoring in the market for
the little bit of land which is allowed to be available. It
only gets land by outbidding everybody else. Its com-
petition is the last straw in boosting up prices and
making land unprocurable, except at a figure which
means utter slavery to the cultivator who buys it.
• • * *
These circumstances represent the position into
which empty Australia has drifted. It doesn’t
contain one-twentieth of the population necessary
for its defence, yet the habitable parts of it are
overcrowded, except in Queensland and the
Northern Territory; and they will be overcrowded,
unless better methods are adopted, by the time
they contain three people to the square mile.
Except in extreme cases the amount of popula-
tion has little or nothing to do with overcrowding.
Under a system of small land-ownership, each
owner being also the cultivator, and with High
Protection to supply employment in manufactures,
a country like Germany, with 300 people to the
square mile, may be crying out for immigrants as
Germany is to-day. And with insufficient Protec-
tion and the big landlord curse in its worst form, a
splendidly fertile region like the Western District
of Victoria, with about half-a-dozen people to the
square mile, may be driving its population away
for want of space. Unless Australia finds a
remedy for this evil it may as well hang itself by
the neck to the Southern Cross, and end its
existence at once.
• * * *
There is nothing to be hoped in this matter
from the great landlord who forbids settlement
except on terms which make the growth of a
dense, prosperous, healthy and contented agri-
cultural population impossible. He has come to
regard himself as the salt of the earth. All the
bonuses, subsidies, exemptions and special aids
whereby a foolish people have boosted up the
value of his land until they can’t afford to buy
it off him, he regards as a right. They only fill
the great, blastiferous landed mendicant with a
vaster contempt for the people who subsidise him.
The privilege of creating an artificial scarcity in
the land market, and thereby further forcing up
prices, he regards as another right. The plunder
of the country by the occasional selling of a bit
of soil to a foolish Voluntary Land Purchase
Department at absurd valuations he looks
upon as his rightful swindle, not to be torn
from him except by a process of wicked
confiscation. It is mere waste of energy to
point out to him that by his selfishness and greed
he is preventing the growth of population,
making the country indefensible, and weakening
the empire ; he cares just about as much for the
country and the empire as any other traitor who
ever sold his native land. The great landlord is
not a case for argument, but for energetic action.
But no action can be of any account unless it
makes the aggregation of further large estates
impossible. While the original evil is unchecked,
all the silly processes of State land resumption
are merely so much pouring of water into a
bottomless dish. They may stir up the water a
little, but they don’t fill the dish.
The Federal Labor party, with its proposal of a
graduated land-tax extending up to 4d. in the £,
proposes to deal very kindly with the big land-
lord. A party which dropped all questions of
land settlement, and which didn t profess to
regard big estates as an evil or big landlords as a
calamity, and which had no land settlement
schemes at all, might treat that mighty eartn-
grabberat least twice as badly in a mere desire to
be logical. It is only necessary to make the people
of country districts pay their way in the matter
of municipal rates as the town-dwellers do; to
make the same rules as regards working hours,
wages, and the employment of child labor apply
to the country as to the town ; to fix the same
railway rates by weight or measurement for all
goods, except those of a specially dangerous
character, so that agricultural produce and manu-
factured goods would pay alike; and to make each
district pay the deficit, if any, on its local railway
lines, and the tenant-farmer couldn’t pay more
than half the rent he pays now. These simple,
logical acts would make rents drop at least 50 per
cent., and land-values would drop with them, and
the great landlord, by the application of a process
of bare justice, would be more than half-ruined
sometimes he would be wholly ruined. His for-
tune is one-lialf land and one-half public swindle.
He would lose the half which is swindle, and often
the mortgagee would take the half which is land.
But the Federal Labor party, in its moderation,
doesn’t suggest any such drastic measures. It
proposes that the very largest estate shall be taxed
to an extent that will take from it less than
half of the profits of the _ swindles above
enumerated, while the comparatively small estate,
worth £5OOO or less, shall be allowed to retain all
the advantages of the three great swindles of cheap
labor, absurdly low railway freights, and exemp-
tion from fair taxation. The proposed inducement
to sell is not a punishment, but a reward. The man
who choses, despite the Federal graduated land-
tax, to hang on to, say, £200,000 worth of
property, will still, after paying the tax, retain
the whole legitimate value of his land and about
50 per cent, more, the 50 per cent, more represent-
ing about half the artificial value added to the
property by the special aids and privileges con-
ferred on the landholder at the public expense.
If, on the other hand, he likes to cut up his land
into allotments worth £5OOO each, he can sell
them for the full legitimate value of the land
and about 100 percent, more, the 100 per cent,
extra representing the whole of the artificial value
added to the property by the special aids, grants,
exemptions and privileges conferred on the land-
holder at the public expense. The landlord will
no longer be able to work an additional swindle
by adding to the price of the land another large
steal in the shape of bogus values created by an
artificially created land famine; but even with
this feature the Federal graduated land-tax idea
is an example of almost painful moderation.
* » * *
Yet the great landlord—lazy, arrogant, purse-
proud, and inflated with the idea that he is made
of different clay from the rest of the community—
is not in the leastdegree gratefulforall thismodera-
tion. Instead, he is more god-like and blastiferous
than ever. And for that reason, there should be all
the more determination to drag the offensive land
pirate down from his pedestal. The establish-
ment of High Protection is the first duty of the
Australian Parliament, and next to that comes
the imposition of a Federal graduated land-tax
climbing up to a maximum of at least 4d. in
the £. With these two reforms Australia will
begin to acquire population by millions, and there
will be a visible and palpable gun behind the
White Australia ideal. Just now it is only a
helpless and unarmed ideal wandering around
like a sheep in a wilderness of wild beasts, and
liable to be eaten at any moment.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Amazing Downfall of Johnson
and Gould.
And Mr. Johnson, raving, walks out bare-headed too.—
Henry Lawson’s “ Macleay Street and lied Hock Lane”
(slightly altered).
Thebe has been lately a recrudescence in the
Sydney daily papers of the awful periodical corre-
spondence about the alleged wrongs of the Ma
State, especially in regard to the proposed site of
the Australian capital, and some half-dozen or
dozen correspondents have plugged away in
dismal reiteratiomof the old incredible trash about
the alleged unconstitutional character of the
proposal to create a capital on Monaro, and on
other bogus aspects of the Ma Wrong question.
Very loud and very bitter were these few persons.
Bellowing in the fore-front of the battle, like
Übiah the Hittite, was a verbose person who
signed himself W. E. Johnson. W. E. Johnson
(there can? only be one Johnson of this kind) re-
presents Lang (Sydney) in the Australian House of
Representatives—the misguided constituency put
him in again last year. And the spectacle of John-
son screaming on the battlements of controversy,
and raging in the fighting line of dissension, was
something great. Johnson ran to many letters
and a good many columns about the wrong, insult
and treason shown by the Commonwealth towards
the Ma State in proposing a capital at Dalgety,
about the sacred obligation to have the capital
100 miles from Sydney, or “within a reasonable
distance of Sydney,” or something like that; and
about the necessity for N.S.W. to “Arise” or
“ Jump Up,” or something, and assert its rights.
At last a Federalist, who was feeling a little
tired, offered Johnson odds of 2 to 1 (£2O to £lO,
with the additional proviso that Johnson’s £lO,
if he lost it, would go to a hospital), provided
the noisy parochialist would show any clause
in the Australian Constitution which forbade
the Australian capital being on Monaro. And
there—right there— Johnson burst up. Also, he
backed down and crawled out; likewise he re-
treated and got cold feet. After assuring the
public day after day, in columns of correspond-
ence, that the proposal to place the capital on
Monaro was utterly indefensible, contrary to the
bargain, a breach of faith, and all the rest of the
deafening clatter of the little knot of Sydney
Anti-Federalists, Johnson apparently knew so
well that the confident tale was pure invention
that he wouldn’t risk £lO on it at 2 to 1 with a
fair offer of arbitration to decide which party was
tlie winner. In that respect Johnson very much
resembled Senator Backdown Gould, of the
same party. That shrill gentleman declared con-
fidently, in public, that a Federal graduated
land-tax was wholly unconstitutional, but The
Bulletin couldn’t tempt him into pointing out
the clause in the Constitution which forbade
such a tax, even though it challenged him
week after week, and finally offered £l5O to
nothing if he would produce the clause. And
when this paper at last threw the offer open to the
whole community as well as to Gould, not one of
the Sydney parochial crowd, which had, until
then, professed to be quite sure that “direct
taxation was reserved to the States,” would take
up the challenge even at 150 to nothing. The
retreat of Johnson, the N.S.W. Grievance man,
wasn’t more remarkable last week than the dead
silence of Gould, the other N.S.W. Grievance
man, was last year. And the rest of the N.S.W,
Grievance men, when they cease from loose raving
and state their alleged breakages of the Constitu-
tion in a sufficiently tangible way to enable a
sporting Federalist to offer them respectable odds
that they also can’t point out the clause where the
alleged shocking injury comes in, will go the same
road. The case of the small but noisy Ma State
Grievance party is based from first to last on a
tissue of lies—gross, glaring, and crudely-devised
lies —which would be quaint and humorous if it
were not for the vicious and shameful conspiracy
against Australia which lies behind them. The
Ma Woe party represents a persistent, organised
attempt by false evidence to sow hatred betwee'.n
the peoples of the different States, to break up the
peace and goodwill of the community, to rend
Australia asunder, and by so doing to weaken the
British Empire—and all to gratify the petty
vanity and malice and village exclusiveness of
the meanest crowd which ever intruded its offen-
sive presence into the politics of a great country.
Philp the Calamity.
The Queensland elections are due next month, and
the Philp party cocks its draggled plume high in
its battered hat, and speaks confidently of success.
For that very reason it ought to fail, for Pilin'’n
record for political blundering miscalcula-
tion is beyond all reason. Still, as a French critic
said of a traveller with a vast reputation for lying,
“ There may be pyramids in Egypt, even though
Mr. says there are,” and even Piiilp may
succeed in spite of his own belief that he will.
It isn’t safe to assume that the most complete
political fool won’t, some time or other, strike the
truth by accident, and if Queensland takes things
easily, under the cheerful assurance that Philp is
impossible, through that very fact Philp may be-
come possible. And Philp, on his political record,
might easily be a worse disaster to Queensland than
if it selected its Premier at random from the
lunatic asylum or the home for incurables. Philp
represents the gang which shoved Queensland
along the road to ruin till it had, in proportion to
population, the Biggest Debt on Earth. Philp
was the man who, in better seasons than Kidston
has enjoyed, and with a vastly larger revenue than
Kidston possesses, thought nothing of having a
half-million deficit in a single year. A half-
million deficit in Queensland means the same
thing as if Great Britain, in time of profound
peace, had a £40,000,000 shortage, or Germany a
shortage of £60,000,000, or the United States
spent £80,000,000 more than it received. One has
only to consider the incredible awfulness of such
financing to realise the awfulness of Philp.
And it is only necessary to consider the
impossibility of a British or German or US.
financier who made such a wreck being
allowed to hold office for a week after
his figures came to light, and the improbability
of him ever being entrusted again with any
higher public office than that of sweeping the
Treasury floor, and compare that state of feeling
with the apathy which allowed Philp to remain
in office for two or three years after his most
memorable public smash, and the effrontery with
which Philp demands office again, to realise two
things—the utter inability of Philp to compre-
hend his own stupendous incapacity, and the
popular demoralisation which a long course of
government by men like Philp brought about.
Philp stands out as the man who, in extra good
seasons, long before the drought with which he
excuses his pitiable ineptitude, and when the
revenue was about the biggest Queensland ever
saw, had such ghastly deficits as the State never
knew before; he is the man who heaped on new
taxes, previously unheard of, and still had deficits;
he is the man who floated big loans and frittered
them away with hardly anything to show for
them, and still had deficits; he is the man
who closed up railways, and started the
great exodus of population ; and who has to
his credit hardly one wise act or wise remark as
the result of ten years of office and salary. Ihk
Bulletin doesn’t profess to say that Kidston is
the ideal Premier —that would be a large and
reckless thing to say of any man. But, so far as
he has gone, he has been the best Premier Queens-
land has had for 38 years, and whatever spots
there may be on his policy, the fact remains that
should he go down there is no alternative at
present in sight bar Philp. The Wobkek and
Joe Lesina party isn’t an alternative, for it has
no hope; all it can possibly do is to take away
enough votes from Kidston to bring back 1 hilp.
It is the All-or-Notliing party (or perhaps the
Bawl and Nothing party would better express the
situation), and there being not the ghost of a
chance that it can at this election give the people
the All at which it aims, it offers them the
Nothing. Or rather it offers them Philp, who is
much worse. Nothing is only a void. Philp is a
political calamity and horror, a sieve for public
money, a tinkling cymbal and a resounding
muddler, and a man whose capacity for making
a mess of things in good times and dropping
into helpless paralysis in bad ones almost amounts
to genius.
The Imperial Council.
It is probably a mixture of stupidity and pre-
judice that urges the Australian Foreign-trade
press-as usual, anti-national-to frenzied shriek,
against Prime Minister Deakin’s proposals at the
Imperial Conference for the establishmen °
sort of Imperial Council. It is for those paper
bitter thing that the only really big proposal to
come before the London Conference should eman-
ate from the Australian Prime Minister, and
should be urged with such persistency and skm
as to promise to come to a successful n •
According to the prophecies of the anti-Federai
press, Dkakin should by this time be a mockery
and a reproach in London, savaged by constant
reminders of his utterly unrepresentative position
and humiliated at every turn. Instead of that,
he is, following the example of Lyne and Hughes
at the Navigation Conference, taking the lead,
and bidding fair to keep it But jlie personal issue
in this regard is, after all, but a slight one. What
Australia most desires is to get to th «F e
meaning of Deakin’s proposals. Are g B
perialistic in the sense that they tend to dimmxh
the self-governing independence °f
so, they should be condemned utterly. Uittheya
only so in the prejudiced-and stupid-eyes of the
anti-Federal daily press. As a mat ter of fact,
Deakin’s stand has been throughput “ d
complete recognition of Australia s md pen
ence His proposals, m brief, are that
Australia should in future deal »
Britain, not through the Colonial
but directly with the Prime Minister, as
Government with another, not as a ,Jj? t ‘ e
with a Government; that to remove the last
of colonialism Britain’s relations with the .
governing Federation and Dominion ana
S’African States should V e . Uipenal
rnanent secretariat, appointe 1 5 P
Conference, summoning that jto ad-
four years, and during the m l . , •„ s an( j dis-
ministrative body m all Imper < wipe awav
cussions. The effect of this would be to wipe .


the last smudge of colonialism, to give better
results to Imperial Conferences by providing for
organised preparation of subjects for discussion,
and to prevent in future British decisions in
regard to matters profoundly affecting Australia,
S’Africa, or Canada being come to without refer-
ence to those countries. There is nothing in that
to be afraid of. It may be called Imperialism,
but under any name it is progress on the right
lines.
«
‘‘No Occasion for Alarm.”
’ There is no occasion to be alarmed,” the Mel-
bourne Argus says, airily, referring to the fact
that Victorian farmers and farmers’ sons are
clearing out of that State wholesale to buy land
wherever else it can be found. Thus even an
ostrich with its head in the sand can feel brave,
because it sees nothing to be frightened of, and so
long as it isn’t smothered by too much dust
in its nose it can murmur, wheezily, “No—hic-
ohew !—-casion—f’ralarm! ” The farmers, anyhow,
thought that there was enough occasion to make
them clear out in a hurry. Unwisely, on the
same day that it buried its nose in the debris and
coughed courageously, the Argus sent a reporter
to interview a batch of farmers who were bolting
to Queensland. And the farmers, not knowing
how unshakably heroic the leading article was
going to be, contradicted it rudely in advance.
Said Farmer A.
A man would need to be a millionaire to buy good land
fir four or five sons.
Uear land and cheap labor ! What finer combi-
nation could there be ? Then the agent who was
superintending the exodus spoke up on behalf of
some other farmers who didn’t like the looks of
tlie reporter — for all they knew to the contrary he
might have had a pea and thimble in his pocket:—
f , °“? °f two have told me that they have let their laud in
ne Western District at more than they could make by work-
ing it. They are going to Queensland because they can
get land for one-fifth of the money.
So the artificial land famine created by the Vic-
tonan landlords who keep most of the State out
of cultivation has. forced up the rent of the few
available bits till it represents more than can he
dragged out of the soil, and the man who hires
the ground can only hope to pay for it by eating
up his capital. One farmer going away, and the
farmer he leaves behind him going broke! It is
an unnatural, wretched, diseased state of things,
but the Argus reckons there is no occasion
for alarm. “It simply means that land” (says
the Argus) “is so highly valued in Victoria that
a number of holders are tempted to sell, and to
acquire three or four times the area in other
states. The Bulletin agrees. It means that
those who aren’t in Victoria are tempted to stop
away, and those who are there are tempted to
go away. It means that a country with just about
14 people to the square mile—a practically empty
land—has prematurely developed, thanks to the
curse of big-landlordism, the evils that are
only looked for in countries with 20, or
00, or 40 times the pressure of population.
It means that, thanks to the big-landlord curse,
the infant is old 1000 or 2000 years before his
time old and bowed and senile and accursed.
It means that, unless the exodus of farmers pro-
motes the genesis of a heavy graduated land-tax,
land in Victoria may yet be so “ highly valued ”
that it will be reverentially allowed to relapse
into the condition of an uncultivated desert.
Then there won’t be. any farmers to buy the
Argus. But the ostrich digs its beak into the
mud and hollers loudly, “No ’casion for alarm.”
«
Maoriland and the Monkey.
“ Thomas Clodd, ” from Maoriland :
Monkey dom, represented by Vice-Admiral ToMiOKAand
n s subordinates, together with their fighting iron-
mongery, called in on Maoriland the other day, and
Wellington society carefully misrepresented the senti-
ments of Maorilanders generally in a magnificent attempt
to show how horizontal a naturally perpendicular person
si£T5 i£ T become when he or she really tries. Wellington
left ifc mostly to the great officials’ women-folk to show
lomioka and co. how beastly hospitable it could be, and
to cordially shake the visitor by the tail. The Attorney.
General, whose chief, Ward, lately fired a loud, decided
shot for the whiteness of Australasia, filled a good deal of
atmosphere with notes of admiration of our gallant allies,
lair women, who will some day bear sons to go Monkey-
hunting, needed no introductions to Tomioka and his
lesser hatchets, and openly “ sparked ” the least allur-
lngof the ooze of Asia. Officialdom and parsondom, in
charge of large parties of the Asiatics, insisted on show-
ing them, on a personally conducted tour, the chief un-
defended spots on the East Coast. Later, Torn and his
followers, to the number of 12 squads of eight men each,
thoroughly surveyed Wellington, noted the heights of
the hills, used a range-finder openly, and put in a lot of
work with mathematical instruments and note-books.
Every “ liberty-man ” bought M.L. post-cards, and, as an
afterthought, maps of the chief cities and of the islands.
. d ‘? e . tween times private citizens crushed the myriads
of midshipmen to their vest, and showed them the best
room in the house.
TomoKAwas deeply moved. He said that Maoriland
was So much like Japan,” and “We shall come back
again and stay longer.” Budding Bennett Burlkighs
and potential Smiler Haleses heard these remarks with
interest, and waited respectfully outside the cages until
scratching time was Over. Then they collected further
opinions. The carefully-expressed views gathered by
different Burleighs from different small brown Nelsons
were fired off in the same exquisite English and in pre-
cisely the same terms. The official typiste in the
Admiralty at Tokyo probably uses a vast acreage of
carbon paper in writing out opinions for its officers to
take with them. The nebulous Nelsons all agreed that
Japan simply hates to colonise ; that Japan has room for
three times more people than the close-on-fifty millions
it now possesses; that Japan doesn’t want any coal-
ing stations, because it can always coal its ships by
tender, as it did in the Bear-Ape struggle. It is gathered
that Japan is buying British-built Dreadnoughts at two
and a half million pounds per ship in order to assist the
Australian squadron to preserve Australia and Maoriland
from armed aggression by the Chatham Islanders.
It is conceded that there is no Japanese desire
to colonise or to be aggressive, because Japan hasn’t
colonised or shown aggressiveness in Korea. It is
definitely known that the few millions of rifles built
to the order of China are to be used for pea-sticks, and
that the Jap- John alliance will preserve the peace of the
world, because the Channel, Mediterranean and other
squadrons will be always hovering about in the Tasman
Bull is settling a couple of nations in the
Baltic. Peace will be plentiful for 500 years, because no
heathen has ever been known to break a contract or per-
petrate a lie. We are safe because the Japs say they
want to stay at home, and are at this moment poking the
noses of their ships into .every port that will give them
welcome. And if in the opinion of croakers perpetual peace
is in. jeopardy, the bee in the bonnet of the croakers
has been removed by Maoriland’s military panj'andrum
Kobin, who assures Oceania that he enjoyed the Aus-
tralian military manoeuvres very much. He didn’t look
in the powder chest or the gun locker simply because
neither exists to any visible extent. And, seeing that
peace is assured, why worry about military manoeuvres or
powder chests or armories ?
* + .
The “ Reputable Employer ” of Victoria.
■J-’b® “reputable employer ” clause, inserted in the
Vic. lactones Act by Iceberg Irvine at the
behest of the Employers’ Federation, is likely to
cause that body some worry presently.' This
clause, in effect, orders a Wages Board to ascer-
tain the average wages paid by “reputable em-
ployers, and to fix a minimum which shall not
exceed that average. But if the Board thinks
that average wage insufficient it may tell the
Minister so, and he must refer the matter to the
Court of Industrial Appeals, which may then fix
a minimum regardless of what anybody pays.
The starch trade Board has so reported, and the
Appeal Judge is to decide the question of a mini-
mum wage in that trade. Probably the framers of
this clause never dreamed that any Wages Board
would be so independent and courageous as to
impugn the fairness Of any “reputable employers,”
but it so happened that there are only three
firms of starchmakers in Victoria, and they all
pay much the same there was
no possibility of branding one or two as being
sweaters. Either all were reputable or all were dis-
reputable. The employees’ representatives on the
Board and the chairman couldn’t be sure that
the three were reputable. There are 131 em-
ployees in the trade, of whom 73 are adults ; of
these 73, 42 are females and 31 males, and the
average adult wage of £1 Os. lid. stuck in the
Board's throat. So the matter is to go to the
Court, which will practically have to decide
whether there is such a person as a reputable
employer in the whole boiling of them. This
wdl be the third appeal, in as many years, to the
Industrial Appeal Court. The first, in the
artificial manure trade, was on a question of
wages; the second, in the fellmongering trade,
was on a matter of hours. Both these were
decided against the employers. How this decision
will go nobody knows ; but the Employers’ Asso-
ciation sees horrible possibilities in the power
which it got Irvine to confer upon the Court.
M'Bill.
That quaint little person Rep. M'Williams, of
Tasmania, writes to the papers to say that he is
against the whole business of the proposed transfer
of the Northern Territory to the Commonwealth,
and especially the M‘Bill is against the transcon-
tinental railway from Port Darwin to Port
Augusta (S.A.). Says M’Bill wildly
There is not the slightest chance of the Federal Parlia-
ment ratifying the bargain. The railway proposals with
which the agreement is loaded have already killed the
scheme. To MY STATE, for example, those conditions
are simply impossible. If carried out they could only
result in reckless, wanton waste of the taxpayers’money,
and in grievous disappointment and heart-burnings to
South Australia. Even the Ozar of Russia has found it
impossible to force trade and transit out of natural
channels; the Federal Government can never force the
commerce of tropical Australia by railway to the extreme
southern coast of the continent. The whole history of
trade, and a glance at the map of Australia, demonstrate
indisputably that if a dozen lines of railway were con-
structed, north and south, through the whole extent of
the Territory, they could never hope to carry the produce
of the country to Port Augusta.
If M'Billj had been an American, and hadn’t
possessed any more sense than he lms now, he
would have similarly objected to the IJ.S. trans-
continental railways because nobody could reason-
ably expect California to send its goods all
the way to New York for shipment, or New
York to send its goods to be shipped at
San Francisco. And by his own reasoning
there should be no railway from Hobart to
Launceston, because Hobart doesn’t send its
goods as a regular thing to be shipped at Launces-
ton, and Launceston doesn’t send its goods to be
shipped at Hobart. M‘Bill, mouldering on his
island, takes it for granted that inland Australia
has no future, that there will never be anything
more than a dot of population about Port
Augusta and another dot at Port Darwin, and
that as there is never to be any intermediate
settlement or trade or industry or anything else,
the country won’t require a railway for ever and
ever, amen. M‘Bii.l, also holds that the Aus-
tralian Government has made such a failure of
settlement in Papua that it can’t be trusted with
the Northern Territory. But the Australian
Government has only held Papua for four years,
and, bad as things may be there, it seems in that
time to have done a lot more with its Possession
than Tasmania has done with its south-west in
about a century. Judging by M‘Bir.L, one
would think the chief products of Tasmania were
despair and little apples.
Prison Work.
“ Y ” WRITES :
Not only inside, but outside of gaol walls Victorian
prisoners will soon, unless Premier Bent has already for-
gotten all his bright ideas on the subject, be employed in
remunerative industries. Whatever the local objections
may be, the idea accords with the sense of most civilised
countries. For years New south Wales has been
endeavoring to extend the sphere of prisoners’ usefulness
to themselves and to the State, and may claim to have
made appreciable progress.
The alleged difficulty is to prevent undue competition
with free outside labor. But if prison-made goods are
not sold below ordinary market rates, then no one has any
reason to object to the competition. The prisoner has as
much right to work as anybody else, so long as he doesn’t
work in the capacity of a cheap laborer and a wage
cutter.
In Great Britain 150 industrial arts and crafts are
practised inside prisons. The mailbags are all prison
made. Ropes, baskets, and coal sacks are mostly prison
made. Boots and shoes, and garments for soldiers,
sailors, and numbers of State officials are made within
gaol walls. Prisoners out of doors are continually em-
ployed oft brickworks, building harbors and breakwaters,
and,at quarrying and tunnelling. The metal guards on
most' of the ocean steamships are the work of prisoners.
Canada employs prisoners largely in farming. They
work in groups, and not only reclaim forest land, but
experiment with new crops, and in a way are pioneers
of industry. In the United States they work at various
branches of the iron industry, doing most of the nail-
making and plate-making business. In many gaols
prisoners work much the same hours and in the same
occupations as thej' were accustomed to outside.
In France prisoners are employed on all the regular
industries. Bookbinding is carried on to a large extent.
Tons upon tons of old boots and shoes are sent to the
military prison at Montpelier and are there worked up
into passable new footwear. The industry has become
world-famous. Not only do the prisoners renovate the
old articles ; they also reduce to a pulp materials unfit for
renovation an 1 produce a composition which serves the
purposes of morocco leather.
Similar industrial occupations are found for prisoners
throughout Germany. Making cigars, cigarettes, buttons
and pens gives work to many. Female prisoners are kept
busy in their own branches. Weaving, spinning, em-
broidering and the like fill up the days.
When prisoners earn more than it costs to keep them,
the surplus is generally placed to their credit. This
appears to be part of Premier Bent’s, scheme. It should
be a very necessary part of all sufih schemes, as by it
competition with free labor may be considerably regu-
lated. The surplus should be expended on a prisoner’s
wife and children, if such are dependent upon him. In
some prisons the surplus money is stored up till the con-
vict is released. In some others, he is allowed to spend
all or most of it in extra fare and comforts. Some French
prisons allow a prisoner to expend his surplus in furnish-
ing his cell with superior bedding and other articles of
comfort. It is said, indeed, that some prisoners earn so
much that they employ menials to do their cejl work.
Sending prisoners to work in the bush, as Bent
proposes, will have its own risks. The guarding of ‘
them would itself be a serious obligation. But the
United States and Canada afford lessons in the matter.
In the early days most of the roads about Sydney were
laid out and cleared by prisoners. But the discipline which
made that class of prison labor successful then would not
be tolerated by public opinion nowadays.
£ -
The Victorian Tax Dodger.
Every now and then there crops up in Victoria
some awful instance of the under-valuation of
land by shires. On their valuations the shires
base their ratings, and thus the landowner evades
the legitimate taxation which he ought to pay.
The Water Commissioners, under the new Water
Act, have just been making an independent valua-
tion, of the lands which will be under their con-
trol, and these are some of the shocking results
which they have obtained :
In some cases the Commissioners’ valuation exceeds the
shire valuation by 75 to 90 per cent. ; in every instance it
is of an appreciable amount.
The total valuations made by the shires were £122,810 ;
the Commissioners’total was £195,799. So the farmers
have been dodging the payment of rates and taxes (in
these areas alone) on land worth almost £73,000.
Some of the more fearful examples •
Municipal Commissioners’
District. Valuation. Valuation.
Cohuna .. .. £11,642 .. £17,835
Campaspe .. .. 7,547 .. 13,678
Rodney .. .. 59,565 .. 105,908
Swan Hill .. .. 2,038 .. 3,818
If the valuations per acre betaken, the figures look just
as fearful:
Municipal Commissioners’
Valuation, Valuation,
District. per acre. per acre.
Bacchus Marsh .. £5l 0 0 .. £72 14 0
Benjeroop .. 2 18 0 .. 4 11 0
Campaspe .. .. 3 5 0 .. 5 16 0
Gunbower West .. 2 7 0 .. 4 10 0
These are the places where (because of their gross
under-valuations) the water trusts and shire coun-
cils have fallen hopelessly in debt to the State.
And they are inhabited by farmers who vote
Anti-Sosh, and shriek about “ centralisation ”
whenever a Government spends any money in the
city.
The Worm Turns.
An extract from the Drapers’ Record (Lon-
don) :
Leaving Freetrade Holland, with its important indus-
try in docks for the use of the world, a few hours brings
you into Protectionist Germany. What a revelation
awaits anyone who has not visited Kaiserland for, say, 15
or 20 years. A general criticism then was—“ cheap,
nasty, and no sense of the artistic,” a replica of what
“made in Germany’’used to mean applied to German
goods in this country.
To-day, the selection of goods displayed in the leading
shops in even country towns nearly rivals Paris or Lon-
don for richness of quality, artistic selection, and costli-
ness. This will give some indication of the growing
wealth of the consumer. I gather that the retail tradeis,
notwithstanding the retarding effect of a mild season,
have experienced a record year’s business, and that the
volume of trade during Christmas has never been
equal! d. The German newspapers have lately published
statistics which support this. They state that the sav-
ings bank deposits have increased 26 millions sterling
during 1906, and that in 1870 the deposits in the savings
banks were 25 millions sterling, bub to-day they amount
to 415 millions sterling.
Although poor dwellings and poor people are to be seen
in the great cities, our slums and utter destitution
appear to have no counterpart. After a fall of snow it
is almost impossible to find the unemployed for the odd
job of clearing it. The idea of the stay-at-home Britisher
that the cost of living is dearer in Germany is not evi-
denced by experience on the spot. The restaurants, from
the best to the cheapest, have so many novel aspects that
they cannot be dealt with in a paragraph, but I can
affirm that, comparing Berlin with New York, Paris, and
London, Berlin is far and away the cheapest for food. I
estimate that at a middle-class restaurant, such as
Kempinski’s (equal in marble fittings and furnishing, say,
to our Trocadero), item for item, a la carte, the dishes
are 30 per cent, cheaper in Berlin. Certain meats may
be a little dearer per pound at retail, but the meal is
cheaper, because, by the custom of the country, a
number of such appetising savories as sauer kraut
and many other almost costless delicacies augment the
German menu, and make the meal as substantial as our
English all meat-and-pudding fare. White bread at four
rolls a penny is hardly extravagant, whilst the much-
maligned black bread is as good as it is cheap, and is
served in middle-class homes and hotels with the cheese.
Increase in the cattle import tariff was permitted in
order to assist agriculturists to pay higher wages to
laborers and keep them on the land, it being found that
the great increase in wages through the industrial boom
was attracting men to the towns. One outcome of this
has meant the increase of meat portions in the Trocadero
class of restaurant from 7Jd. to Bd. per portion. I am
informed that the statement with which we are so
familiar that a large quantity of horse-flesh is consumed
by the people for food is incorrect. It is true, as in oitl-
own and other countries, that a certain section of the
poorest classes do eat horse-flesh, but the bulk of the
consumption may be accounted for by the fact that most
of the important towns have menageries which require
horse-flesh as food for their animals....
I have met manufacturers making large incomes, up to
probably £40,000 a year, who apply themselves to the
infinite details of their business from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
each day. If the chief does this, it may be easily under-
stood that those below him, down to the very artisan,
stick to their work in like manner. Notwithstanding
this, the work is not the drudgery that the above hours
would indicate. In the factories I have visited a full two
hours (from 12 to 2 p.m.) is given at midday for dinner
and rest, while the heads of the firm might take three
hours. How much better this for their physical welfare
than the American five minutes’ lunch. I had the good
fortune to witness the 12 o’clock egress from a factory of
some 400 workmen and workgirls. How different it was
from such a scene in England ! Not the departure of the
great unwashed, with work-begrimed and untidy clothes.
Each man carried himself erect, as became his army train-
ing,'and had fresh, clean clothes, while each girl was trim
and neat, with cosy head shawl; neither had any sign of
their manual labor. Wages for mill girls in this model
factory rule about 245. a week, but it must be noted that
in South-West Germany, where home work prevails,
wages are lower.
Referring to the iron trade, the boom in manufacturing
is so great that some Works, although working their fur-
naces to the utmost capacity, cannot supply the demands
of their home market. Some iron works have orders in
hand sufficient for two years ahead. Mill owners are pay-
ing 10 per cent, premium to secure earlier deliveries of
machinery, and weaving looms are fully engaged for
months ahead. Under such conditions, general export
trade to England and the world is not of urgent necessity.
Is it not, therefore, possible for both Germany and America
to show a comparatively smaller export business—because
so fully engaged on home supply—and for England, with
less prosperous home trade, to have bounding exports V
. . . Population in the Fatherland increases at the rate
of nearly a million a year, whilst in Great Britain the in-
crease is not half a million. Think of the weight of com-
petition upon the world in general, and our unprotected
markets in' particular, this increase of German man
power must in time create. How shall we meet it, or
withstand it ?
Truly has it been said that even a worm or a
draper will turn if oppression is carried too far,
and the drapery worm of England is turning
against Freetrade at last.
+
“Thersites” (from Victoria): As bad as the
craze for importing men to fill fat billets is the
craze for sending public servants abroad oh picnic
trips, in search of illusory information. Of what
use were Alfred Deakin’s trips to the Pacific
slope and India in search of facts about irrigation ?
He wrote a beautiful essay on Indian temples
without learning enough about irrigation finance
to save the loss of a couple of millions on water
channels the cookies don’t know how to use.
What good did the State derive from John
Matheson’s trip to Amurriker with Jim Sinclair
to learn how to shift wheat loose instead of in
bags? Matheson was offered, and accepted,
the Midland Railway managership. V ictoria
still fills bags with wheat, and lumps
them laboriously. What benefit was derired
from Sinclair’s trip to South America, at Govern-
ment expense, to see whether wool grows on
sheep’s backs the same there as it does in Vic-
toria, or whether the Dagoes sow woolseed and
water it well? What value was Octtrim’s jaunt
to the last Postal Conference? Or Jenvey’s or
Hesketh’s, to see if “hello” is pronounced the
same way by subscribers abroad ? And our mili-
tary system is more in a mess than ever, yet Vic-
toria has been paying travelling expenses, and
board and lodging, for military officers at Shoe-
buryness and Aldershot for 20 years past. And
now Tait and Tate go from Victoria to Fogville
to see the new ballet at the Empire, and to
sample the new sort of cocktail they are selling
at the Yankee bar at the Hotel Cecil. Also,
Commander Colquhoun and Gunner Clarkson
go to Japan at the State’s expense to look at Jap.
dockyards, and see the cherry-blossom festival at
Kyoto. Then Meakin and Owen, two Victorian
civil servants, go with poor old broken-down
Bent, to be out of the way while the Cabinet is
being re-constructed. Town Clerk Clayton and
Surveyor Mountain got well-paid leave of
absence, and the Melbourne ratepayer gets stuck
in the tarry roadway, while Bendigo and Ballarat
tailings are blown into his eyes by the.north wind.
If one could point out any good results from this
tripping system, it might be excused in certain
cases. But the public gains nothing for its
money ; and on top of all this why should Mr.
Talbottle get six months’ holiday, or practically
a present from the people of £5OOO for having
done—what? ”
*
The whole question of Parliamentary representa-
tion in Queensland badly needs overhauling.
According to the lately-prepared list of electors.
Toombul has 6715 on its roll, and Bulloo, where
Janny Leahy comes from, has 857. Yet Toom-
bul has only one member, and Janny counts for
one too. At Woothakata, up in the Chillagoe
Wanted, a Noah.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the dawning of the ages, when old Time was
in his youth.
Says tradition—and tradition often hovers near
the truth—
When the sturdy tree of knowledge was a tiny
little bud,
Came a terrifying rumor of an overwhelming
flood.
There were scoffers in those ages—their descen-
dants plague us yet—
In the aldermanic caverns of that ancient world
they met ;
There they swarmed like flies in autumn, and
they buzzed like angry gnats,
And they yelled the old equivalents for such re-
marks as ‘ ‘ Rats ! ”
There were sceptics in those ages—there’ll be
sceptics when we’re dead—
Men who never see a brick-bat till it hits ’em on
the head—
And. when Noah rose to order, they were very
impolite,
For they called his solemn warning “bosh ” and
pre-historic “skite. ”
Then he called his sons together, and they grafted
night and day^
And they felled the local timber in a lavish kind
of way,
And, before his offspring’s energy had time to
cool or slump,
He had built a naval nightmare which would give
a tar the “ hump.”
’Course old Noah wasn’t Nasmyth, and his tools
were rough and rude,
A nd his views on ventilation have been stigmatised
as crude;
But his Ark had “beam” and “freeboard,” and
was solid as a rock.
And the rain which fell in furlongs took her nicely
out of dock.
She’d an aromatic cargo—skunks and elephants
and hares,
And goannas, snakes and ’possums, cats and dogs
and native bears—
But the lee way that she gathered would have
broke a sailor's heart,
And the sea he had to sail on wasn’t marked on
any chart.
And the perfume rose to Heaven, as the vessel
pitched and rolled.
Of the miscellaneous vermin under hatches in the
hold—
How the deuce he ever caught ’em, how he stowed
’em in the Ark,
Is a mystery which Noah kept particularly dark.
He’d no quadrant in his cabin, he’d no compass,
and they say
That the latitude and longitude were mostly
washed away,
But he sailed her like a Viking, and he never lost
a cat,
And he beached her like a seaman on the mud of
Ararat.
But the years rolled on in thousands, and the aeons
came and went,
And the tree of knowledge flourished till beneath
its fruit it bent ;
And, though Time’s grown old since Noah and
his hooker took the mud,
Once again we hear the murmur of a devastating
flood.
’Tis no mighty flood of waters now which threatens
with its roar,
But a wave of yellow heathen which may break
upon our shore;
And it isn’t Arks, but bat tie-ships, which now
Australia lacks.
And there isn’t any Noah, with his handy little
axe.
If this wave of yellow heathen rolls unchecked
upon the coast,
It will sweep away those liberties of which
we proudly boast;
All our Lares and Penates it will quickly over-
whelm—
Yes, in sooth, we need a war-ship, with a Noah
at the helm.
But the scoffer and the sceptic stand for ever in
the way,
And they flout us as they flouted at old Noah in
his day,
And they blink like wakened owlets, for they’re
blinder than the bats,
And they shriek their senseless shibboleth—
their parrot-cry of “Rats!”
Oh! ye guardians of our sea-board, wake and
labor while ’tis day.
Fell the trees and lay the keelsons of your war-
ships while you may.
Build your arks of safety quickly, get them
launched, and armed, and manned,
Ere this foul, relentless billow breaks ’in thunder
on the s(."and.
N.S.W.
IRONBARE.


For biographs, cinematographs, films, and
everything for the up-to-date living R*
business, write to Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd.,
George-street, Sydney, wholesale jobbers for
Edison’s phonographs and products.*
and tin country, it takes 5397 electors to return
one member; in Carpentaria Philp’s friend,
Forsyth, has only 942 constituents. The fact
that Albert Hinchcliffe and his fellow-mem-
bers of the Legislative Council don’t represent
anybody isn’t an argument in favor of letting the
Assembly alone. If they nominally represent
anybody it is the people as represented in the
Assembly, for the badly-chosen Assembly
creates the Ministry that creates the Council;
and if some people get eight times more
representation in the Assembly than other
people, then, on account of the Council, the eight
simply has to be multiplied by two to get at the
facts of the case. A Premier who lets that sort
of thing continue, and wants that sort of govern-
ing institution to have more power and the
Federal Houses less power, looks as though he
needs a lesson in arithmetic to start with.
— — -♦
The new Australian rifle, the invention of
Sergeant J. H. Matthews, of the sth A.I.R.
(Vic.), has, after stringent tests, secured the hearty
approval of the Commonwealth Military Board,
and has gone to England under offer to the War
Office with Defence Minister Ewing’s blessing.
The rifle is the present British magazine affair,
so improved as to be practically a new weapon.
The chief advantages claimed for it are : (a) The
mechanism is so constructed that when the
magazine is full the rifle can be used as a single-
loader, and the magazine reserved to stop a rush ;
(b) the soldier is automatically warned when the
magazine is empty. A few hundreds of the old
rifles have been converted into the “ Australian”
—so named by its inventor —and the men who
used it at Lancefield Easter manoeuvres pronounce
it “ all right.” By the way, the matter shows once
more what may happen to a country that doesn’t
take the trouble to make its own weapons. If
the British War Office doesn’t adopt the rifle,
Australia, which can’t do anything with it because
this country has no arms factory, will probably
see this useful native product passed on to some
foreign power. Already the inevitable Jap agent
has breathed into Matthews’ ear the usual
tempting offer, but the inventor waits to see what
Britain is going to do.
One Lang, who is Controller of the British
PosLOffice Savings Banks, and who trails
C.B. after his name, lately alighted on this long-
suffering country, and immediately set out to put
it right in a newspaper interview :
He was very much impressed with the rapid growth of
“ the colonies,” and their present prosperous condition.
He thought it would be very much in the interests of the
Empire if more of those in “ the old country ” came out
to see them, especially those who were following a poli-
tical career. He did not think that nearly sufficient was
known about them by present Cabinet Ministers. There
was one great drawback, however, to the Common-
wealth, and that was the Labor party. He had heard it
said over and over again that capitalists would not
invest in Australia owing to the fact that there was no
permanency on account of the presence of the Labor party
in Parliament. That applied equally to Maoriland,
Mr. Lang prophesied that the development of the coun-
try by-and-bye would be enormous.
So Lang boils down to this :
(1) He is much impressed with the prosperity of “ the
colonies” ; in fact, he is quite surprised thereat.
(2) British people don’t know much about “ the colo-
nies.”
(3) Speaking as a person who doesn’t know much about
“ the colonies ’’—who is quite surprised, in fact, to see
how successful “ the colonies ” have been —and address-
ing, in a superior fatherly way the people who have made
that surprising success, he tells them exactly what they
should do —they should keep clear of the Political Labor
party.
(4) Speaking as a blatant British Podsnap, he assures
“ the colonies ” that unless they get rid of Labor-in-
politics they won’t be able to go further in debt to the
British capitalist, as if it wasn’t the desire of every sen-
sible Australian to get out of debt rather than to get
further in.‘
(5) He says we have a great future before us—which is
good of Lang, though how we are to have it with the
Labor party on our hands, and the British capitalist
refusing to take large profits out of the country, good-
ness only knows.
*
Melbourne Harbor Trust’s new imported dredge,
the Andre Reboucas, nearly came to the same
disastrous end as the pair that the Geelong Trust
tried to import. This second-hand weapon is 190
tons register, and 650 mud capacity, with triple-
expansion engines that are supposed to drive it
at nine knots in fine weather. Unluckily, the
weather wouldn’t keep fine. Crossing Biscay
Bay, the dredge met its first trouble, and it was
so bad that the tinned tripe and biscuits got
damaged, and the fresh water became mixed with
thesaidbay. However, thedredge managed to make
Vigo, where it was overhauled and structurally
altered. Thence it moved on to Algiers, which
it reached in bad order. Fifteen days were spent
at Algiers in doing some more to the grand old
dredge, and then it made a fresh start. Be-
fore it touched Malta the driving wheel
of the dredging machinery was slipping
about the engine-room, and the chief engineer
took it off. At Port Said the captain took himself
off, being replaced a week later by a new skipper—
the man who now coaxes along the Andre Re-
boucas. The first master was apparently suffering
from melancholy through pondering over the sort
of vessel he was on ; anyway, at Vigo his chief
engineer and crew remarked that they “could
not get on with him,” and departed homewards.
Another English engineer and a Spanish crew
were shipped, but at Algiers they had had enough
of the melancholy captain, and’also left. Some
Arab sailors and a casual engineer took the dis-
reputable vessel to Port Said. Subsequently, the
new skipper rounded up a miscellaneous squad of
Greeks, Spaniards, Swedes and sundries, and at
latest had got as far as Fremantle. But the
Andre Reboucas isn’t at Melbourne even yet, and
it won’t reach there till it arrives, so to speak.
There is always one point about the imported
dredge. That is, that when it does arrive it
has cost a good deal more than a locally built
machine, and isn’t half as satisfactory.
+
Philp at Childers (Q.): —
It had been said that he would have taken a position
the same as Mr. Morgan, but he would tell them that
when the Federal Government was first established
William Lyne offered him £2OOO, and Edmund Barton the
same, to go to the Federal Government. But he saw the
difficulties of Queensland, and stopped to face them.
Something further about this interesting offer to
get Philp is desirable. What did Lyne and
Barton want him for? A colleague? If so,
Philp’s figures seem wrong, for no Minister
except the Prime Minister gets more than £1650
a year, anyhow. But whatever it was Philp
saw his duty, and stopped to save Queensland.
And he saved it by loading it with another
£1,212,020 of debt and a deficit of £528,189 in
1901, and another £1,161,689 of debt and a deficit
of £431,939 in 1902, and a further £1,022,405 of
debt and a deficit of £191,341 in 1903. At this
point Queensland concluded that it would rather
not be saved, and handed itself over to Morgan
and Kidston, and they hadn’t been at the job
two years before they had produced a surplus,
and had cut down loan expenditure to £225,000.
That shows what sort of a business man Philp is.
And if he got the offer he says he did, and didn’t
take it, but waited to be poured out by a disgusted
country, it only shows some more what a shock-
ingly bad business man he is.
‘‘John Boydragger” : Let me have a word in
support of “ Pterodactyl’s ” plaint (B. 4/4/’O7)
concerning the meanness of the N.S. W. Education
Department. I know a small school teacher, one
Kidstruggler, a married man (salary £BB a
year), who was practically forced to fence in a
portion of the playground and buy tools, seeds
and plants for a school garden. Next year the
same inspector whose comments drove Mr. Kid-
leader to these extremities complained to the
same teacher of the bareness of the school walls.
Mr. Kidwrestler asked despondently where he
was to get pictures ; £BB a year didn’t run to Old
Masters. The great man gave a shrug of the
inspectorial shoulders, and remarked that other
teachers got them. There’s the rub—other teachers
do it, and so the inspector wants all teachers to
follow suit. For the biggest yield of kowtowing,
toadying and smoodging to the acre, commend me
to the teachers of this State. Some of them will
do anything to earn the departmental smile.
Know one teacher who is raising money for a
school verandah by a series of entertainments !
The favorite method of encouraging the teacher
to dip into his own pocket is for the inspector to
make a flattering remark in the observation-book
about the up-to-date, mechanical teaching devices
of Mr. Toadchewer’s school, or to send a report
to the Public Instruction Gazette concerning
Mr. Quadruped’s microscope, lantern-slides, &e.
The other teachers know well enough the mean-
ing of this; they must keep pace with Mr. Toad-
chewer and Mr. Quadruped, or they will be
rated as inefficient. And yet, as remarked in
your paper, what a shindy would arise if the
public servants in other departments were re-
quired to find much of their own working appa-
ratus, as the teacher is; and if the clerk in the Lands
were seen holding out the hat of mendicancy in
Bridge-street, Sydney, for a trifle to buy himself
a blotting pad, and a ruler, and a necessary bottle
of ink. It is a disgusting business, and reduces
the N.S. W. teacher to the level of a sundowner
with a ration bag.
+
“ Jimiiie Pannikin ” writes:—
“Pterodactyl’s” long, rambling par. anent the N.S.
Wales education system is truly a tangled tissue of
quarter-half-truths and muddled mis-statements. Circu-
lars da not arrive every day or two—nor every week or
three. Teachers are not compelled to regularly weigh,
measure, and test the physical development of ANY of
their pupils, let alone all of them. lam one of those
“ who now call themselves inspectors ” ; but I am not,
and never was, a superannuated pedagogue, being a very
vain and vigorous man of 43. There are over 100 schools
in my, district—none of the teachers therein has been
requested to “regularly weigh, &c.,” though later on
teachers with a bent for scientific inquiry like
“ Prooshan,” “Paul Cupid,” &c., may be invited to
gather! data regarding their pupils’ physical and mental
development.
Why shouldn’t the teacher make his school premises
into a nursery (of a kind), experimental plot (not farm)
and academy of wonders? For far too long our"schools
were a world apart—now they are to be a part of the
world. Our education was far too literary ; now it is to
be more practical. Our pupils are to deal more with real
things, and less with abstruse and abstract ideas. They
are to be not mere marvellous memory-machines, but
reasoning as well as remembering creatures. “ Ptero-
dactyl ” actually complains that the inside of the
school is to show a library, museum, picture
gallery, and goodness knows what. What sort of
an educational iceberg is this who wishes to banish the
humanising agencies from our schools? He would have
no pictures, no books, no goodness knows what —nothing
but “ Facts, sir, Facts,” in a bare, barren, stern, unen-
ticing, uncompromising drab structure, more like a
prison than a school. Fortunately, many of the annu-
ated pedagogues (even those as old and conservatively
crusted as “ Pterodactyl”), the superannuated, and the
attenuated pedagogues have realised that “ a school is
not so much a place for making scholars as for making
souls,” to use Professor Drummond’s striking words ; and
hence some of the allegedly superannuated teachers (who
earn £52 a year less as inspectors than they did as teachers)
preach this gospel: “No school can be made too bright,
too happy, too attractive for children. School should be
a haven, a sort of second home, a place of light and love,
a palace of dear delights to be remembered after with
warm gratitude in the strife and stress of maturer years.”
And they publicly remind the parents and others, that
much of the pictorial wealth that is allowed to go to
waste in many homes blessed with comforts and luxu-
ries, would relieve the drab slab monotony of the weary
walls of many of the lonely little bush schools.
The Department is often taken to task for not supply-
ing the instruments, apparatus, pictures, etc. The State
cannot supply all these desirable things, however bounti-
ful the seasons may be, however wise the administration
of the country’s affairs. Surely pedagogues, parents,
pupils (and prospective parents) may practise
a little self-help, without any loss of dignity.
The teacher does not need to cadge from the community.
In Broken Hill, the splendid self helping teachers raised
over £BOO in three years by giving fine displays of physi-
cal culture. There was no cadging and no begging ; the
spectators (who attended in thousands annually) got
their mone3’'s worth. Most of this huge sum was spent
in adding to the school’s equipment, for the benefit
mainly of miners’and workers’ children. “ Pterodactyl”
ought to spend a year or two in the exhilarating and
mind-expanding atmosphere of Broken Hill and Outback.
“ Ruack ” about took the secesh bun with
a recent letter to Sydney Telegraph, “ Awake
New South Wales,” in which he gave as his chief
reason for secession :
One has only to look upon the small boy who carries
telegrams around to-day to arrive at some mental con-
clusion as to the rapid declining change which has taken
place. Formerly we used to pride ourselves in the smart-
ness of our boys—they looked so nice and smart and
alive, but now one hardly knows what to think ; the
small boys seem like a lot of attenuated postmen not out
of their teens. One is' doubtful whether the Federal
heads have suddenly dressed up the Newsboys’Brigade,
or something of the kind, to press them into the service.
Altogether I can’t help thinking, as one who loves good
old New South Wales, the best and noblest of the lot,
that we are having a bad time, and the question I still
ask myself is: what sort of people are we that we can’t
make a change? There’s no doubt, as the poets put it,
“ we are a long-suffering British race.”
And apparently “ B uack ” was quite serious—as
also was, apparently, the other old lady who printed
this lovely bit of local patriotism.
Rather a good thing for mine managers
has been brought out by Tyree the Spray Man.
By adopting the Tyree Spray a mine manager can
now light his mine for nothing, or spray the drill
holes for nothing—whichever he likes,, as the
same gas can be used for both operations. The
new regulation of the Mines Department com-
pelling all mines using rock drills to use the
spraying device comes into force next month.
The mine manager is naturally looking for the
best spray for the purpose. The Tyree Spray is
the only one that need be considered. It works
at a minimum of cost. Throws a spray as fine as
dew. Does not need any alteration of the present
machinery. The gas after it has been used for
the spray can be used for lighting the mine. At
North Sydney the other day, a demonstration
was given for oiling the streets. The oil was
almost as thick as tar. The demonstration was a
great success. We understand that a demonstra-
tion is to be given to the Sydney City Council in
a few days. For full particulars write to Tyree
Limited, 314 George-street, Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “ Mother Goose."
Theatre Royal “ Brigadier Gerard."
Criterion “The Village Blacksmith.”
Palace “ What Would a Gentleman Do ? ”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Hall West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Grand Opera Season.
Her Majesty’s “Dorothy Vernon.”
Theatre Royal “The White Heather.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
“ Mother Goose’s ” output of golden eggs
is still unabated in Sydney, and, with eight
crowded performances a week. J. C. Williamson
isn’t encouraged to even consider the question of
shifting the dredge from Her Majesty’s or driving
another level— The Bulletin doesn’t know for
sure whether the bird is an alluvial or a quartz
proposition.
-* sfc * *
“The Village Blacksmith” will hammer
in his moral lesson with a sturdy arm for 10 more
nights at Sydney Criterion. Then “The Squatter’s
Daughter,” which put up a record for business in
Melbourne, will probably follow.
* * *- #
‘ ‘ Rallies ” gives place, at Sydney Royal
next Saturday, to “Brigadier Gerard,” a play
new to Sydney, founded on Conan Doyle’s yarn
of that name. “Brigadier Gerard” should give
Julius Knight a good opportunity for romantic
and picturesque swashbuckling; and that’s what
the Sydney girl wants to see.
** * *
“Peter’s Mother,” at Sydney Palace, de-
served the reward of large audiences, but the
play is too delicately pretty and unsubstantial for
a substantial public, which is full of sound sleep
and butcher’s meat. Next Saturday the piece
will be replaced by “What Would a Gentleman
Do?”
** * *
Those who want only the. weird and
astonishing can get it now at Sydney Tivoli,
where, not content with the usual writhings of
the contortionist, Emil Amiel stands in the lime-
light and bulges himself into various fantastic
jim-jams. A turn of much the same sort is pro-
vided by the: Cleopatra snake-lady—only she
makes the snakes do the writhing, and they don’t
get any limelight. Annie Laurie is still dittying
to the-effect that the poor are the friends of the
poor ; and if any poor person has a few final letter
“g’s” to spare they will no doubt pass them
on to Miss Laurie, whose poverty in them is
distressing. Miss Nellie Kilburn has been glorify-
ing “Starlight,” or “Moonlight,” or some other
robber, in black velvet coat and knickers—and
that sort of thing'becomes distressing too ; we are
getting rather too much heroic bushranger and
burglar. But over all the show is the genuinely
artistic performance of the Charlenes ; Madame’s
xylophone solo, though it is only a side-line in
the turn, is unquestionably the most delicate
piece of work of the sort yet heard hereabouts.
** * *
Wonderland City goes into its winter sleep
at the end of the present week. On Saturday the
“Missing Girl” was found by the early-worm
boy, who thereby annexed three guineas. Next
Saturday Ben Hur and Curnow will wrestle for
the light-weight championship of N.S. W., Fitts
will sing, and the Venus will pose. After that,
oblivion—till the flowers that bloom in the spring
are above ground once more.
* * -* *
Baritone Andrew Black and violinist
Premyslav will start their shamrock of concerts
to-morrow (Wednesday).
** * *
West’s Pictures and the Brescians still in-
terest Sydney. The wreck of the Berlin—a bit of
a recent sea tragedy, from which film two lives are
saved while the audience waits—-has been added
to the attraction, and Sydney may go cold with
horror and sympathy every 'night for a very
modest coin.
* * #
The ink-bottle drama nears its end at
Melb. Royal, and the members of Bland Holt’s
co. are preparing to resume their original parts
in “The White Heather,” billed for Saturday
(27th). Melbourne should be glad to renew its
acquaintance with that reasonable play. There
are flesh and blood characters, human
motives, bright lines, and a positively origi-
nal plot in “The White Heather.” You
get moderation in all things except the
scenery, which is more artistic and various
than that of any other specially large production
painted by Brunton. And because it comes
along in an ordinary way of Bland Holtian busi-
ness, with no flourish of trumpets, no inordinately
enthusiastic and untruthful notices from the daily
press, and no pretence of being intended to lead
anybody to salvation, “The White Heather”
has never been appraised at its full value by the
public, who can’t detect the difference between a
goose and a swan.
** * *
Last week’s performances of “ Tann-
hauser ” and “Carmen,” at the Princess’s, were
somewhat weakened on two or three nights by
the introduction of a new Toreador or a different
Venus. On Monday of this week Mr. Massimi,
the incidental Italian member of the co.—a little
man with a top note —was to pop up for the first
time as the jilted tenor in “ Carmen,” and he will
presumably be wanted again to-night (Thursday)
for “The Barber of Seville,” one consecutive pro-
duction of Rossini’s ancient comic opera having
been promised “as evidence of the company’s
versatility.’’ To-morrow one more final per-
formance of “ Lohengrin ” will be given, and on
Saturday, the fine melodious fable of “Faust”
will come to light, with Greder as the crimson
author of all our troubles.
** * *
“ Parsifal” is leaving Melbourne Majesty’s
at once, in spite of a notoriety that would have
compelled an enormous success for any fairly
forcible melodrama. With Ada Ward giving it a
false character for shocking immorality, “Parsi-
fal ” was expected to do phenomenal business.
But the moment was inopportune. The Rev.
Taylor’s holy mystery play, coming imme-
diately after “Mother Goose,” looked very
like a postscript to the other panto., and,
seeing that the ballet was greatly reduced, and
the demon attendants of Klingsor never
dived down a trap, and the principal boy wasn’t
a young woman, Melbourne soon wearied of the
wild extravaganza. Miss Tittell Brune will dis-
continue her doleful impersonation of the Infernal
Woman after Friday night, and on Saturday she
will get a chance to recover her spirits as Dorothy
Vernon. In a procession of good-bye revivals
‘ Dorothy Vernon ” is to come first.
An announcement that Melbourne Bijou—
extensively altered and improved—will be ready
for re-opening on June Ist invites tenders for a
three or five years’ lease of the theatre.
#* # *
A quaint new-comer at the Opera House
is one Carlton, a tall, attenuated fellow in black
tights and a sham bald head, who looks like a
streak of pantomime, and frivols w'ith a pack of
cards to a running accompaniment of talk. Carl-
ton’s patter would be even more humorous if his
utterance were lesschucklesome, but it is amusing
anyhow, and in his all-round slimness he is a
unique performer. Another fresh arrival—V. L.
Granville —appears as a tragic hactor in a series
of gloomy “character impersonations,” which
fully explain why he has devoted his audacity to
the music-hall stage instead of waiting for “ star ”
engagements in melodrama. The hysterical vehe-
mence of the young man’s passion tends to
disguise the exceeding badness of his act-
ing, but it can’t conceal the fact that he
would be better employed in helping to
develop the natural resources of this young
country. Granville works hard for about 15
minutes a night, but the waste of exertion is
deplorable. The Bicknells, the boy flautist,
juggler Hartley, Fred Russell, and Gracie
Grahame, are still contributing to the prosperity
of the Rickards house in Melbourne. Gracie
seems to be successful in consequence of the mere
foolishness of her songs, and Fred Russell excites
furious laughter every time he addresses himself
as “cocky”—a favorite term of endearment or
scorn with professors of ventriloquism.
* -# * *
The comic opera season at Adelaide Royal
has attained its crowning triumph—it has got
manager Bracy into the police-court on a charge
of overcrowding. “The Orchid’’ seems already
out of date, the principal character being a fairly
good-natured burlesque of Joseph Chamberlain.
Out of consideration for the old wreck of a states-
man, Bantock tones down, or omits altogether,
that particularly clever song of “Perseverance
pushful; First I land The bird in hand, Then I
bag the bush-full.” Miss Olive Godwin has been
ill, and out of the caste. The season is drawing to
a close with the improbable story of a heroine in
the Salvarmy, and a hero in a candy store, and a
Polite Lunatic who wishes to kill someone by the
name of Bronson. Tom Dawson is a bright light
at the Tivoli, the Hippodrome has been special -
ising in boxing and other platform athletics, and
Broncho George’s roughriders are roughriding at
Port Adelaide, after a season of eight weeks in
the city.
A one-time stall-holder in Paddy’s Market,
Sydney, who has grown up to be a prosperous
Sussex-street merchant, says that for many years
he traded on money borrowed at between 20 and
30 per cent, interest. And he made so much out
of the public that even then he grew rich. He
continued to borrow for several years after he was
able to go alone, having acquired a superstitious
belief in the good luck which Uncle Cohen
brought him. Registrar Henry, of N.S.W.
Bankruptcy Court, holds that an insolvent who
borrows money at 15 per cent, for trading pur-
poses is not entitled to a discharge, as he cannot
have a reasonable or probable expectation of
being able to repay ; but then, Mr. Henry never
sold vegetables in Patrick’s Market.
Varney Parkes vows to make hair fly next
elections. He is, to do him justice, always will-
ing to make something fly. When in the Govern-
ment.he kept water boiling inside and outside of
the department. If there wasn’t an enemy
handy, a friend did just as well. As member of
the Public Works Committee, he constituted a
revolution in himself, and, when the others made
him chairman, he turned the meetings into cheerful
riot. He laid out £5O buying books for the mem-
bers, and every book he presented caused a row.
When money was scarce with him he refused a
portfolio; when it was scarcer, he flung up the
chairmanship of the Works Committee; and,
when scarcer still, he resigned his Parliamentary
seat. Presently he admires Carruthers, but, when
he gets back into the House, he will probably
collide with him as he used to do with the Premier
who first called him Varney,
The other day three Ballarat honorariums
put up a record for cruelty and stupidity. The
victim of their brutality was Mrs. Elizabeth
Eldridge, aged 77, of known good character, and
receiving an old-age pension. Being on the verge
of starvation through illness and inattention, she
came under the notice of the police. Apparently
the benevolent asylums were full, or tired, or
busy, or something, and as the police couldn’t
arrest the old dame without laying a, charge of
some sort, they accused her of insufficient lawful
means, &c, (Doubtless, they were right. Bent’s
Bs. a week pension is obviously insufficient for
decent support.) When the beaks considered the
matter they promptly put Mrs. Eldridge down as
a hardened criminal, and awarded her the punish-
ment adequate to a burglar or an arsonist— l%
months' hard labor ! Acting-Premier Davies says
he will get the Executive Council to “pardon’
the old lady, and will send her to the Austin
Hospital, or some other institution. Which is all
very good, but who is going to pardon the beaks ?
And is there enough water in Waranga Basin to
wash out the iniquity of Bent’s pension ?
A welcome ashore to an old man of the
sea:—
Captain J. T. South, a tough old shell, who has been
tossing about on these coasts for 40 odd years, is at last
giving it up. During the Crimean war he was on a
Yankee vessel engaged in the'French transport service,
and one of his early recollections is of a fight with a gang
of Greek pirates. In Australia, he was for a while with
Huddart-Parker,; then he helped to bring out the old
Dandenong, owned and commanded by Captain Howard
Smith, father of the magnificent Spruce of these days. He
remained with Howard Smith till 1887, part of the
time in command of the Edina, the first vessel sent
by the Smiths to engage in the Queensland trade.
Twenty years ago he was put on the bridge of the
Queensland Government steamer Lucinda, and he has
stayed there until now, barring adjournments for meals
and so on. Captain South had a habit of appearing on
the scene just in time to save people from wrecks. His
most notable rescue was in connection with the Cahors-'.
He was coming down the coast in the Buiwah one night,
and when near Evans’ Reef, between the Richmond and
Clarence rivers, discovered the Cahors on a reef. The
Burwah’s boats were let down, but on account of a rough
sea they could not get near the Cahors. The second
boat, in charge of the second officer (Junner, who is now-
captain of the Queensland Government steamer Otter,
and likely to succeed Captain South in command of the
Lucinda), came back for instructions. The outcome of
the instructions was that those remaining on the
Cahors—one boatload had started away from it just as
the Burwah came in sight—were thrown into or jumjjea
into the sea—the women in coal baskets, the men wearing
lifebelts—and were then picked up by the Burwah s
boats, this being accomplished without loss of life.


Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
AT POVERTY POINT
Can an actress be a Christian ? Yes, probablv, but it
seems to come easier for her to go on being an actress.
“ Blister ”: After all, Ada Ward is a throw-back. In
the eighteenth century Hannah More wrote plays, became
converted," and, later on, obtained notoriety bv de-
nouncing the stage. Still, a stage that could tolerate
Hannah s tragedy of “ Percy ” deserved denunciation.
“Philistine”; Went to see “Tannhauser,” and came
away disillusioned and disappointed. First scene; Cave
Venus, with attendant nymphs, naiads, satyrs, and
fauns, reclining on couch gazing absently at a very fat
object at her feet. Object is in a shabby red plush tunic.
bat gentleman s appearance suggested a three weeks jag
Couldn t have had the jag in t ie cave, as the nymphs
in pink cotton tights, high-heeled French shoes and
drapery over erect-form corsets would never have per-
mitted it. Neither would the satyrs or fauns: i.e. the
gentlemen clothed in the pink Jaeger underwear and fur
aprons who so quietly played at “two’s and three’s"
with the nymphs. One could imagine even “Jud"
joining in their innocent gambols 1 I was hoping that the
rotund gentleman’s voice would make me forget his
appearance. Disappointment again. His voice resembled
a long thin stream of luke-warm fat! If I had been Venus
I should have called to one of the gentlemanly fauns to
put him out of the back hole of the cave and see
that the biggest stone was rolled against it. The
second act consisted of a sort of musical evening, given
by a fat middle-aged lady. With the help of a gentleman
surrounded by red whiskers, she welcomed her guests
and judging by the way they fell over themselves and the
furniture, I don’t think they were used to going out
much. Presently Tannhauser arrived with five knight
pals, each carrying a little toy harp. Then began an
A.N.A. competition, in which Tannhauser, of the circu-
lar form, tried to shake things up by singing a love song.
Don t know what was wrong with the song, but there was
general indignation. Fat hostess interfered by W’arbling
something on his behalf, and the matter was hushed up
Don t remember much of third act. Just remember two
fat knights arguing down below in a dimly-lit forest for
about three hours—probably on the Early Closing Act
or, Can an Actress be a Christian?" Their argument
was stopped by the fat lady who gave the musical even-
ing being brought in dead on a stretcher. I cheered up
considerably, hoping to see Tannhauser follow suit
Hadn t long to wait, for when he caught sight of the fat
corpse he uttered a noise like swallowing a ripe mango at
one gulp and fell dead-at least I hope he did. After this
111 stay at home and read Swinburne’s account of Tann-
hauser and Venus.
Meynell and Gunn, the new lessees of the Theatre
Koyal, Melbourne, are to pay £lO5 a week, and the Roval
is not reckoned dear at the price. It is a rise of £25 a
week on existing rates.
“ 0.K.” : The stummicky German tenor (Studemund)
of Musgrove’s Opera Co. makes me very mad. One can
forgive a sweet-voiced prima donna for being matronly-
looking in a young girl character, especially when she has
comeliness with her buxomness. Also a slim, youthful
figure in a Juliet enables a kindly-disposed audience to
overlook the faults of her face, and accept Romeo’s
sudden infatuation as a possible eccentricity. But for the
operatic tenor—a performer of supernatural Wagnerian
heroes—to go piling up flesh on the outside of him and
accumulating fat inside of him is an unpardonable outrage
against the art he professes. The man whose business it
is to present himself to the public as Lohengrin and
Tannhauser should practise whatever self-denial may be
necessary to keep his figure within reasonable limits. If
he neglects to do this he is not an artist in the proper
sense of the word, though he may have retained all the
sweetness of his voice whilst allowing his stummick to sag
and his eyelids and jowl to become heavy. Mr. Stude-
tnund aforesaid has not preserved the vocal charms he
may have possessed of yore. He is just a fat man with
an uninteresting voice.
‘‘O-K.” : In speaking of Mr. Fred Beard’s lately pub-
lished booklet of self-commendation and personal adver-
tisement, I referred to the author as “ Melbourne City
Orgamst,” and gave him credit for the successful Recitals
which happen at the Town Hall every Saturday, and some
of which I have attended. The difference between Fred
Beard and Dr. W. G. Price ought to have made the con-
fusion of their identities impossible, even in a careless
moment of writing—but it didn’t. Dr. Price is Mel-
bourne City Organist. Mr. Beard is Director of Music at
St. Patrick s Cathedral (Melb.), and conductor of one or
two local musical societies. The fact that these two new-
chuni musicians arrived in Melbourne at about the same
time is my only possible excuse for mistaking one of them
for the other.
Thus Ada Ward, raving at Collingwood (Vic.) Town
Hall;-‘One young woman had written from Sydney,
stating' that she took to the stage when fourteen years of
age. She had to play the part of a dissolute woman, the
influence of which character upon herself could not be
other than demoralising. Asa matter of fact, she (the
writer) had taken to cigarette smoking and drinking. It
was her custom after the theatre to adjourn to a club
where carousing would be continued until 2 a.m. She
felt that the denunciations of Miss Ward were well timed
ana correct, but she could not see her wav out of the
toils winch had enmeshed her. Miss Ward' stated that
a Melbourne actress had likewise supported herattitude."
Now in Sydney the pubs close at 11. There has been for
many years a steady average of about half-a-club for
women that is to say, there was one women’s club half
the time, and none the rest of the time ; and the women’s
clubs have all been mild tea-and-scone places where vou
couldn t carouse if you wanted ever so much. And
women never whooped things up wildly and set their
bonnets on fire in the gas jet at the Union or the
Athenaeum. Ada , where is that club ?
A commendable first attempt to promote drop-curtain
fc *’ e dignity of decorative art has been made
at Melb. Opera House by Fred B. Norton, who rents the
cur ain from Rickards. Instead of crowding the whole
available space with all sorts and conditions of advts.,
.Norton suggested a comparatively handsome curtain,
allovvmg marginal effect for an arrangement of only nine
advts., pictorial and otherwise, space rate being raised to
meet the altered conditions. The result pleases the
advertisers, and improves the public outlook, what time
the curtain is down.
“ S." : “ Can an actress be a Christian ? ” Yes. I have
known several who were very good Christians, but they
were intolerably bad actresses. It is a revival of the old
query . Can an actress be a good woman ? ” And we
recall the wicked worldling’s reply : “ Yes, but there is
really no necessity.” Apropos lam reminded of the ex-
clamation of a middle-aged member of a one-time popu-
lar Australian comedy company. “I believe I am the
only good woman In the profession,” she said. Then, re-
plied the low comedian in his deep bass : “ Madam, I’ll
keep your secret.”
“ Flinderino”.; The musical and elocutionary competi-
tion curse in Victoria is dying a well-deserved death.
Last year the Ballarat and Bendigo competitions each
showed a loss of about £l5O. Prahran lost over £7O.
Brunswick paid its secretary with a vote of thanks, and
wound up with a deficit of £65. The Geelong committee
is not expected to recover from last year’s business.
These competitions were started with the ostensible
objects of bringing to the front talented Australians, and
improving the public taste. Entries were plentiful right
from the start, but a dozen or so competitors showed
themselves to be head and shoulders above the others, and
easily took the prizes. These gifted persons were not
satisfied with having proved themselves to be champions.
They became nomads—musical and elocutionary swag-
men and swagwomen—and went the round of the
competitions year after year. The second and
third raters dropped out after a few attempts, but
there were always more third-raters to take their places,
oome of the champions got engagements for concerts and
smoke-nights, for which they received their expenses and
a little over, also perhaps a fourpenny cigar. As the
competitions are supposed to be confined to amateurs,
protests w ere occasionally lodged on the ground that cer-
tain competitors had received payment for their services,
and were therefore professionals. In one or two
instances, protests of this description were upheld, and
the amateur-professional was debarred from competing •
but the finances suffered considerably thereby. The'
door-money is the principal source of revenue, and the
audience failed to put in an appearance when only second
and third raters were performing. The committees have
long since dropped the idea of educating the public :
they now simply study the treasury, by putting on a
good programme, with plenty of variety in it. Coon
songs, comic songs, gymnastic displays, and novelty
entertainments are in favor. An item which, contrary to
expectations, turned out profitable was the children’s
pianoforte competitions. All the 60 or 80 competing
kids would bring their sisters, mothers, teachers, and
schoolmates. Sometimes Pa would come along to hear-
his kid scramble on the piano, and 79 other kids do the
same bit of music. A difficulty arose early in connection
with the judges. Each judge had his own idea of what
was the correct way to sing or recite. So one competi-
tor knew he would win easily when Professor Pianissimo
was judging, but with Herr Fortissimo he wouldn’t have
the ghost of a show. Then there were hints of corrup-
tion—of how Herr Slush was good to Herr Mudd’s pupils
in giving his awards, and Herr Mudd returned the com-
pliment. It was a sorrowful business all through, and it
can never be deader than it deserves. But it leaves
behind it a horde of dreadful little prigs, w'ho will have
to be slapped hard before the evil effects of years of public
competition are remedied. As for those who are too bi<r
to be slapped, the kiss curl and the rapt, upward expres”
sion are incurable.
WANDA RADFORD, (the Sydney child actress,
as Oliver Twist (aged 10 years).
• • E v . an gelist Alexander seems to be all evano-el-
iso and no business man during his present tour, possibly
through his company having been augmented bv the in-
clusion of a wealthy wife. Last time he infested Aus-
tralia with Torrey, “ Guile ” and Co., Alexander was the
star-bright Loo-Loo on the financial side of things. Saw
his final shivoo at Melbourne Exhibition, when he led the
chorus, standing on a chair and moving his arms in imita-
tion of every sport known to humanity. He swung clubs
served hot balls over a tennis net, bowled like Jones in
n J }e ™ afclonal cncket match, slogged like Noble, swam
100yds. in two-fifths of a second under Healy’s best
showed more blows than Bill Squires ever heard of*
and drove golf balls in a way to mystify the
most experienced caddie. Having finished his daintv
evolutions, as the crowd was beefing out “Geil’s
got the Key to Heaven,” or something to that
effect, Alick hopped from his chair, came to the footlights
and said in husky Yankee tones, “All you whose souls
were saved from hell by that song stand up.” There was
a shuffle, and half-a-dozen rose. “Keep standing”
ordered Alexander. “ Copies of my song book containing
‘ Geil’s got the Key to Heaven ’ may be obtained for one
shilling. The boys will now take them round. Git a
move on, lads.”
“G.”: “Star” (B. li/4/’O7) refers to Dion Boucicault as
the creator of the stage Irishman. In the name of all that’s
holy, what has “Star” read ? In “ Pendennis”Thackeray
makes Captain Costigan, as he himself savs, “ a Lucius
O’Trigger on and off the stage.” Said O’Trigger in Sheri-
dan’s “ Rivals ” was two generations earlier than Bouci-
cault, and any way Boucicault only plaved Irish folk
plays. Who objects to “Conn, the Shaughran ” and
“Arrah Na Pogue” on “ Star’s ”grounds? Sheridan is
hereby nominated as the father of our present stage-
Paddy abomination.
“ S.S. Karl Studemund, the Tannhauser of Musgrove’s
grand op. co., is a very substantial tenor, with an embon-
point like M'Kee Rankin, and his size gets in his road when
he has to run down the back steps. It got such a pull on
him one night that he only succeeded in stopping his
flight with one foot on the “ floats,” and when the audi'-
ence fully expected to see him precipitated into the band
to the annihilation of a very fine collection of fiddlers
When Tannhauser appears in the last act as a pilgrim
worn and wasted with sufferings and fastings, his waist
is even more distressingly in evidence, and makes it im
possible for him to get near enough to Elizabeth’s bier to
hug the dear deceased. Whereat a brutal person in the
dim recesses of the gallery once loudly advised him to try
a back hold.” This led to the utter demoralisation of
an affecting moment.
Andrew Mack, back from the land of railway smash
and toasted nigger, is playing to big houses in Wellington
(M.L.). He is pretty much the same old Mack—easy, alert,
passably effective; and the extraordinary jumble of
"™ or y that presents one Thomas Moore as Poet Laureate
of England, frisking noisily cheek by jowl with Sheridan
and Beau Brummel, arouses the same old enthusiasm of
the uncritical. Mack has his qualities. He acts toler-
ably in his groove, and the wire-drawn sweetness of his
moderate singing voice tickles ’em where they stay. As
to the significance of Mack’s success, with regard to the
criteria of dramatic art in a land that produces admirable
local actors who just struggle on weighted with faint
praise—well, as to the success of this and other Macks,
the less said the better. The company behind Mack is
just ordinary, though the man who plays the Beau
succeeds in spite of all temptations in doing refreshingly
convincing work. This man is labelled “Charles
Aveling.” He again acquires a certain distinction in
‘ The Way to Kenmare ” by playing a farcical German
with commendable spirit and vim.
One could smell the gums as he wandered round
the railway station, dragging Mrs. Hayseed from
platform to platform. He had interviewed several
porters, and they had received his remarks with
such amazement, and had watched him so carefully after-
wards, that the lounging crowd and the übiquitous small
boys began to be interested. Finally some sympathetic
person directed him to the inquiry office, where they
know everything and are surprised at nothing. “ Where
does the train start for Ireland, Mister? I’ve been to
every platform in the station, and can’t see a sign of it.”
For a moment the clerk was struck. “Ireland? You
go by boat, man—or is it the Adelaide express? Oh!
oh, yes, of course. Show me.” Hayseed pulled out a
cutting of the advertised “Tours of 'the World,” where
you sit in a Pullman and the flickergraph shows you the
scenery. “Ah, yes; that’s it. ‘Car starts every 20
minutes for Ireland ; first return sixpence.’ ” He was
sent off up town, and the expectant porters, who had
stood ready to dodge a lunatic, resumed their arguments
with the Easter excursionists and the commodious, but
elusive, dress-basket.
“ E.D.”: Reflections on Pinero’s “ His House in Order,”
remind me that a few years back I inflamed the passions
of a number of Bulletin contributors by claiming the
newer Pinero as a disciple of Ibsen. How any student of
Ibsen, looking into Pinero’s plays since the outbreak of
Ibsenity in England, could have mislaid that obvious
conclusion amazed Ine up to the point whereat I was
satisfied that the raging objectors were students of
neither. In “ His House in Order” the apostle comes as
near to his master as he dare without laying himself open
to a charge of plagiarism, or, at least, slavish imitation.
That business of the park in the Pinero play is undiluted
Ibsen. The shaggy Norwegian frequently brought in
similar institutions for the more effective play of
character. Note the school-house in “Ghosts,” the
baths in “An Enemy of the People,” the importance of
the bank in “A Doll’s House,” and of the ship-building
firm in “ Pillarsof Society.” In “ His House in Order” the
Englishman comes nearer to the Scandinavian’s downright
naturalism in weaving his web than he has done in previous
plays, but being at best a man of exceptional talents, lack-
ing genius, he fails where Ibsen succeeds. “.Ghosts,” by
Pipero, would be a literary disaster if kept strictly to the
Ibsen methods, because Pinero to please must display his
best arts and smartnesses. Pinero must have clever,
blti.se people to deliver his epigrams and dazzle us with a
meretricious glitter. Ibsen has no smartnesses—he
doesn’t need them any more than the Greek slave needs a
diamond necklace and a feathered hat. But Pinero’s
piled-up clevernesses make a mere Chinese pagoda beside
Ibsen’s eloquent sphinx, “Ghosts.” This merely to
demonstrate that a step too far in pursuit of Ibsen
may transform Pinero into a bore, although, when
he follows the Norseman at a safe distance, the result is
to infuse a liberal measure of humanity and serious
intention into the Pinero who was formerly little more
than a gifted maker of little plays who had served a
zealous apprenticeship in Scribe’s toyshop.
An American play, recently produced in New York,
refers to the hero’s divorced wife as “ his first wife once
removed.”
“ Melb.”: Opera in this city began with Coppin, who
soon wound up with his dictum that it would never pay.
His artistes included such as Anha Bishop, 'Madame
Carandini, Octavia Hamilton, Laglaise, Coulon, and
Gregg. Madame Carandini took the tenor role oj Fra
Diavolo. Other artistes who tried to make'some footing
were Signor and Signora Bianehi, two big- fat people, of
the come e hello, or come and bellow sort. In 1856
there came a small English companv, including Sherwin
Farquharson, Julia Harland, and her husband, Hoskins
the Comedian. They first produced “ Maritana,” at the
Olympic. Lyster came about 1800, and opened at'the
Royal with “ Lucia di Lammermoor.” His company in-
cluded Lncy Escott, Rosalie Durand, Georgia Hodson,
Ada King, Squires, F. Lyster, and Trevor. Beaumont
dbbuted later in “The Bohemian Girl.” There was
not much change with Lyster’s companv so
long as the well-worn voices of Escott' and
Squires hung out. Madame Simonsen was added.
Farley sprang at a bound from the chorus. About 1870,
Lyster partnered for opera with John Smith, who began
as a lank step-dancer and developed into an avoirdupois
manager. Meanwhile, George Musgrove u'as growing.
He emerged at the Melb. Opera House as a money-taker
in one box, his father being in another. George is
Lyster’s nephew. Jim Kitts was acting-manager. Lyster
took ill when the company was getting ready to go to
Maoriland. He said to Mrs. Lyster: “ What will Ido
for a manager to send ? Kitts must stop.” “ Oh,” re-
plied Mrs. Lyster, “Send George.” “What? That
boy?” “ Yes, he will do better than anybody else.” And
so he did. Lyster said, “My Passion is grand opera.”
But the public taste fell away to cpera-bouffe, and Lyster
had to cater for it. His first venture was the “Grand
Duchess,” at the old Princess’s. With lordly contempt,
but an eye to his farm at Narree Warren, near the Dande-
nongs, Lyster produced a shoal of opera-bouffes, includ-
ing “ Madame Angot ” and “ Girofle-Girofla.” After
Lyster came a decided hiatus in grand opera. It remains
to be added that George Musgrove’s present company
equals any two of the oast.
N.S.W.’s Old Iron and Bottle-o Act has
already collode with a snag in the person of a
foreign gentleman with a name like Lozenge. He
was recently prosecuted for dealing in second-
hand goods without a dealer’s license, an inmate
of Darlinghurst Gaol having confessed that he
sold some stolen property to Lozenge. The
defendant admitted trafficking with the Darling-
hurst man, but pointed out that he had only pur-
chased some unset diamonds, and he demanded to
know how on earth diamonds could be classed as
second-hand goods. The Bench said it didn’t
know, but it fined Lozenge £2 and costs, all the
same, and it admitted, as it fell on Lozenge, that
by reason of its decision every jeweller in the city
lm fht have to apply for a second-hand dealer’s
and bottle-o license, or risk similar proceed-
ings. And indirectly this obscure bobby court
lays it down that Edward VII. has a second-
hand crown on his head, and that the orb and
sceptre are old, pawed-over things that come
under the marine store law.
The arrival of N.S.W. Chief Commissioner
of Railways Johnson failed to arouse the same
enthusiasm in his department as in the offices of
those Sydney newspapers which are so badly
bitten by the importing microbe. The day John-
son the Great was expected from Melbourne, the
representatives of the four Sydney dailies
gathered on the platform awaiting the express.
As it steamed m, they approached a porter, ask-
ing if he knew what part of the train Mr. John-
1,n ‘ . “ Certainly, gentlemen,”
replied the official, with enthusiasm, “I’ll take
you right to him.’ With the scribes at his heels,
e P ol 'ter ran along the row of carriages until he
reached one from which an immense individual of
“tL • was dragging his luggage.
Stril , . s m ’\ l the porter in an. awe-.
trV, fi'-f; an he Jj a imghty good man. ,But,
fhu nv from me I d sooner back Bill Squires
than all the Jack Johnsons in America.”
A tale of marine desertion :—-
“ Strikes me it’s just as hard to keep out of gaol nowa-
days as it is to keep out of pubs,” said the barman to the
fellows at the bar.
“ Well I dun’ow, it all depends ’ow yer luck is,”
answered an old salt. “ I ’ad a bad turn that way once.
It was this way. Me an’ me pal Sandy was on a beast of
a brig, an’ we was just about full up of the game, so we
wanted to give the capt’n the slip. The capt’n Wouldn’t
let us leave, an’ we couldn’t clear because there was about
twenty quid coming to us for wages, so we was in a fix.
But Sandy ’e ’ad a idea. He says to the watchman on
the wharf: * I say look out. I’m going for your watch to-
night so as I can get quod.’ The watchman being a
decent sort says, ‘ No, you don’t get my watch, but I’ve
got my togs in there,’ and pointed to his house. Well,
that night Sandy goes and coders the togs, and of course
the watchman puts the cops on to him, and he
comes before the beak. Sandy pleads guilty 7 and
all that, but the capt’n he comes and say 7 s as bow
what a good character Sandy had, and the beak
he goes and gives Sandy seven days or a fine of five quid.
Then, the eapt’n he goes an’ pays the fine, sayinghe’ll
take it out of Sandy’s wages, and Sandy had to go back
to the ship. ,
“ Now, I thought. I’d show Sandy how to dodge the
ship, so I goes and gits a little bit tight, and makes for a
jeweller’s window, and breaks it. I starts helping nieself,
and up comes a cop and nabs me. Of course, I comes
before the .beak, and I gets quod all right, and so the
ship left without me, and the Customs held me wages till
I come out again.”
“ How long did you get ? ” said the barman.
‘Eighteen months’ hard,” said the old salt.
“ Gosh 1 ” said the barman.
When the Maoriland Exhibition was closing
up, the Treasury came down on the foreign stall-
holders with a demand for income-tax on the
takings during the Exhibition. No pig under a
gate ever squealed like those exhibitors. The
whole of their objection to payment is based on
the claim that they ought to have been notified
when they applied for space that they would be
called upon to pay taxes. To which the Income
Tax Department replies that it didn’t run the
show, and didn’t know who had applied for space.
Most of the objectors are Yankees, who are tax-
dodgers by nature and training. There was a
Sretty row 7 at Chicago when the Australians ex-
ibited there and the Yanks wanted to collect
quite a number of imposts before letting the goods
go. Writer disremembers how it ended, but,
whichever way it was, the insult is avenged.
A nice point in ethics is disturbing Redfern
society, and the police at that end of Sydney are
breathing hard and working up their muscle, in
readiness for the time when two embittered fac-
tions will “ shy ” the rock of battle at one another.
One side accuses two of “the boys” of robbing
another of their number, whose acquaintance they
had made in Goulburn gaol. The alleged robbery
is indignantly denied, and, on standing their trial
last week, the accused were acquitted without a
stain on their character. They are now supported
by a large following, which says that, even if they
were guilty, it is all the fortune of war, that the
person who says he was robbed shouldn’t squeal
about it, aiid that when one push invokes the
“ Johns ” against.another its conduct is unpardon-
able. The opposing faction contends that if the
accused committed the robbery, they were guilty
of unprofessional conduct in taking down a pal’,
especially one whose acquaintance they had.made
under mutually disadvantageous circumstances.
The result is that families are divided, brother is
against brother, and residents of Redfern are
shoving heavy furniture against the front door,
and stocking the upstairs front room with rocks, in
anticipation of an outbreak of hostilities.
The lock-out at Fougeres in France had
one remarkable feature. The town has but one
trade—bootmaking. The operatives were forced
into unionism by the avarice of the employers.
To smash the union the bosses locked out 6000
workers. They established a common kitchen,
and food poured in from all parts of France. But
as a French woman said, “The children are the
great strike-breakers, as they don’t understand.”
Bouget, of Rennes, proposed that the trades
unionists of Rennes should take the children into
their families, and within 48 hours 1200 families
were clamoring to receive them. Some 30,000
people met the first batch of 150 hungry kids at
Rennes, and clothes, etc., poured in from all
France. This is a good idea if the time comes
when Australian employers reject arbitration.
A pathetic request was that of a Ballarat
washerwoman, who lately suicided, that the papers
should not fuss over her remains. The poor
woman’s husband picks gum leaves for an oil
factory, and did not earn enough to keep his wife
from the wash-tub. There she contracted blood
poisoning, and the terrible pain drove her to
suspend herself by the neck in a woodshed. She
knew that her neighbors would want to know
what was really wrong with her innards, so to
oblige them—neighbors are ghouls for wanting to
know about your innards—she left a written
message for the coroner :
You^iad better open me to see what was the matter
with me.
Evidence showed that hard-earned money had
gone to quack doctors, one of whom persuaded
her that she had a clot of blood on the brain, and
gave her pills to remove it. The familv’ was
miserably poor, but the old heroine worked like
ten niggers—no one ever saw one nigger work
much—to keep the home together. She had few
luxuries while she was alive, and the one she
craved for at her death was denied her, for the
daily paper crows gathered round her body at
great length, and made quite a heap of copv out
of her.
The Year Book oe Australia for 1907
has the same virtues (which are many) and mostly
the same faults (which are few, but in some eases
foolish) that the Year Book for other years has
had. It hasn’t yet discovered that there is a
Ballarat Bank, or a Commonwealth Insurance
Co., or a Farmers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of
Maoriland, though it professes to have all banks
and cos. in its lists. Also, though it prints lists
showing the poll in the last elections for Repre-
sentatives and State Assemblies, it doesn’t supply
the same sort of a list for the Senate. Still,
there are 750 pages of good and valuable informa-
tion, and the man who doesn’t get it misses a
large half-guinea’s worth.
From “ Maroogaline ” :
The wife of one of Queensland Lands Minister Bell’s
constituents has sixteen children. Bell considers it his
duty to call on this prolific Cornelia whenever he is in
the district, as she controls a lot of votes, and to tell her
what an honor she is to the world generally, and Dalb \- in
particular. Carefully adjusting his eyeglass on this 6cca
sion, the politic -1 Chesterfield gazed into the cradle; and
observed: “Haw! bai Jove, Mrs. M , all your
children were splendid specimens', but this one really sur
passes all the others. What a magnificent .child ! "
Then a lady standing by scornfully observed: “Oh.
come, what are you giving us? That is only a pillmr
you are looking at; the baby is out for a walk up the
creek with her sister Em!” And Bqll swore softly, bin
firmly, to himself that he vvould let the next baby veil -
before he expressed an opinion, so as to be sure tin
darned thing was alive, and notapillowwithbotheridsoi
the same circumference. He has marked off the vote* in
that house as “ extremely doubtful.”
THE GAY DECEIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Ada Ward points out that, assailed as the pretty
actress is with the strongest and most persistent tempta-
tions, it is almost impossible for her to escape ruin. Con-
sideration of this solemn warning induces me to tell the
tale of Rosy :—
Rose was a gentle little thing.
Her dimples held no trace of guile,
And on the stage she used to sing.
Her voice it had a fetching ring
Of innocence ; and at her smile
The agent would forego the rent,
The Devil turn a penitent.
She danced in foaming skirts of pink,
And wore some spangles and a spray ;
He in the stalls was wont to think
How sweet she was, and, should she wink,
Twas just her simple baby way.
He’d cash in heaps, of land a bit—
In fact he’d everything but wit.
He tempted her—the old, old way—
With winning smile and wicked leer,
With jewels, and with suppers gay.
He’s toiling for a crust to-day,
And she has wed an ancient peer.
His fate was righteous ; truth to tell :
He tempted Rosy, and he fell 1
VIC.
SPELL.


Deafness imeiii Tests
THE Official Investigationsof the Deaf are well descri bed
in the “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW,” explaining fully
the wonderfully-constructed mechanism of the inner ear ;
the Causes and'Dangers of Deafness, Head Noises, &c., &c.,
and how to cure yourself at your own home with pure
natural Aural Kinetics. No Medicine. No Electricity,
and No Ear-Drums necessary.
The Well-Known and Highly-Esteemed Nurse Stuart,
of 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, writes : “ I am happy to tell
you that after 15 years of suffering I am now completely
cured. I hope that all unfortunate victims will be fortu-
nate enough to hear of your wonderfuI;EAROSCOPE.”
A Retired Squatter writes: “I find my memory
better, and my hearing is improving ery day,”
AN Ex-Postmaster writes: “Yo. - EAROSCOPE is
the best treatment I have ever tried , all complications
have entirely disappeared.
Call or write for full FREE particulars. Address—
THE “ EAROSCOPE” CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W,
SOCIETY
“ HERE WE GO GATHERING NUTS
AND MAY.”
“ You knowsh we runsh a risk of arrestsh?”
“ Shorlright — it’s sworthit.”
Five doctors of Massachusetts (U.S.A.)
fancy they have found out the weight of the soul.
They weighed certain patients immediately be-
fore and immediately after death, and reckon the
loss of weight at the moment of death to he from
Joz. to loz. This loss, they conclude, is caused by
the departure of the soul. The Bulletin here
advances a tentative theory that N.S.W. State
Premier Carruthers might actually weigh a little
heavier after death.
“ Stony ” : I lately came across what was
to me a new. Sydney pub, and entered it in
an explorative mood. Just inside the door, in a
cage, there was an Indian minah, which looked
up at me when I approached, and then, as I
passed, turned on its perch to follow me with an
amused eye. That kind of minah usually has
something to say for itself, but this particular
bird just looked at me as I went in, and said
nothing. There were
two bars, and I had
to pass through the
outer of these to
reach the cool been-
ness within. A Lady
stood at the more
public bar. “Good-
morning, dear 1 ” she
said to me, as I
passed. I started,
and said, “G’morn-
ing,” somewhat ner-
vously. A round-
faced, stumpy,
Italian sort of per-
son stood talking to
the Lady, with his
neat feit hat very
much over one ear.
He looked like a
quite prosperous
harp - player — the
street-corner kind—
and grinned, com-
placently. “Good-
morning, dear,” said
the Lady, and I
slipped quickly by
into the back bar.
There I had a drink
—a thrippenny beer,
no more. Presently
I came forth from the
inner gloom. I had
sneaked almost as
far as the door when
the Lady spotted me
again and called out,
loudly, “Good-bye,
DEE-AR. ! ” in an
unnecessarily strid-
ent voice, as though
making quite sure
that I shouldn’t miss
it. The minah kept
on saying nothing
for a moment or two
longer, but as I
stepped hurriedly
out upon the side-
walk—“ Dear ?” it gihed, mockingly, and I
crushed my hat over my eyes and strode angrily
off down the street. One can have good measure
for one’s threepence, it would seem—good meas-
ure, pressed down and running over—in that pub.
* • •
“Hop,” of The Bulletin, has already
illustrated and attested to the efficacy of the
Tomahawk cure, but beside the remedies of
Bobert Lee Kum, Chow herbalist, the hatchet
application must pale into insignificance. Dr.
Kum unavailingly sued Thomas Patrick Quinn in
a Sydney court for £27 3s. 6d. as fees, etc., for
advice as to treatment of a growth on Quinn’s lip.
The ad vice was to push some salt into the nostrils of a
cow, and then let the cowsneezeon thepart affected.
But, as a small extra, and to cure the patient of
eczema, which he was also suffering from, the
doctor, it is said, told Thomas to catch his neigh-
bor’s “black woolly water dog,” and boil him and
eat him. “For what we are about to receive,
etc., etc. Amen.” One can fancy Quinn going
to his chemist with the prescription and dipping
his finger in the nose of the cow kept behind the
counter for the purpose. Lee Kum also claims
the power to cure a'land agent or a book can-
vasser of nervousness by the simple remedy of
diluted pig’s heart with herbs, taken inwardly.
His fee for this is £2.
* # » *
There is a shockingly unequal distribution
of Woman in Queensland. Around Brisbane
most of the electorates have more female than
male names on the rolls: Fortitude Valley,
Brisbane South, Toombul and Woolloon-
gabba average nine enfranchised women
to eight men. Even in Toowoomba and
Drayton, on the Darling Downs, the scale
goes down on the petticoat side. But, to
make up for that, in Bulloo, Carpentaria,
Woothakata and Flinders there are more
than three wire-and-whipcord men to
fight for every woman—or to take to the
bush on the approach of the rare bird.
And it isn’t the climate, either ; for
Woothakata, for instance, with its fine
tablelands, can supply the same kind of
ruddy-cheeked children that one meets on
the Monaro or round Ballarat,
* * * *
“ Hassan ” : The persistence of
Nature’s lower organisms ! Through the
asphalt of No. 6 platform of the Sydney
railway station, trodden and bruised by
thousands of human feet, spring several
tufts of the nut-grass which grew rank upon
the graves of the Devonshire-street cemetery.
It is certain that a year after the desertion of a
great city by its human inhabitants, the streets
would be green with the hardier weeds and
grasses, and in less than a century the roots of the
gum-trees would have split the foundations of the
buildings and toppled them into mounds of lichen-
covered and moss-grown stones. Before this force
of irresistible growth the civilisation of Man is a
feeble and transitory thing.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” : Without the least desire to pro-
cure a free advt. for a brewery I would like to be
the first person in Australia to protest against
any further importation of Guinness’s stout, as a
gross injustice to the cause of Australian manu
factures. Time was when this country could get
no stout worth drinking save from Dublin, where
the brew of Guinness is a mighty, ever-flowing
river, against the character of which I have
nothing to say. That time has passed, like the
time when we were bound to look to Germany for
lager beer. To-day one can buy Australian stout
as nourishing and palatable as Guinnesses, and
more invariably wholesome for invalids (because
it is free from voyage preservative), at little more
than half the price of the famous imported article.
For Australian drinking purposes the stout
brewed by the Ballarat Brewing Co. from malt,
hops and mountain spring water, is the best in the
world.
* * • *
Wolfe’s , Schnapps, as good for women as
for men—buy bottles with wrappers intact.
Get what has been known for 70 years. Don’t be
deceived. Get Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
The officers of the Vic. police force, anti-
quated or otherwise, are ordered to wear plain-
fronted elastic-side boots when in full dress. The
popular impression that they accompany these
prunellas with white stockings, crinoline hoops,
and a bulging gamp does not seem to be justified
in all cases.
A MAD LAND.
HAPLESS ARTHUR: “ That reminds me, I had a
mad dream last night, Willyum. I thought
I was in a country where it was rainin’’
beer, ’n ’ the people was hurryin ’ with their
umbrellers up ’n’ jugs in their hands t’ buy
pints iv water at the pubs.”
Recent Sydney prosecutions o palmists
and fortune-tellers have had effect. Nearly a
dozen humbug-shops have closed their doors, and
the few places of the kind still open now call them-
selves massage establishments. But inside is
still seen the same dark and dingy shop, “fur-
nished ” with a deal box draped with cretonne, a
lot of cheap curtains, two cane chairs, and a bell,
and the proprietor, or proprietress—-who could
with advantage do a good day’s washing with
just self as the wash—still throws a fit, and sees
the future for from one to five shillings.
* * * *
Thus an Australian, lately from Peckham
Rye
Mrs. Septimus Harwood, like mailman Trevisa Clarke,
and many other unobservant persons, fell into the error
of confusing the Australian and the Cockney accepts
in a recent paper read before the Kid Study
Association of N.S.W. Anybody who takes the
trouble to analyse the vowel sounds of both cannot
find a point of" resemblance, except in the tendency
to call grapes “ gripes,” and the occasional dropping of
the aspirate. The Cockney, whether he come from the
East or West End of London, cannot for the life of him
pronounce the“ow” sound. It is always “ah.” The word
“ sound ” is pronounced “ sahnd ” by coster and peer alike.
A flower isa “ flah,” and London itself is almost invariably
referred to as “ Tahn.” The Australian, on the other
hand, is inclined to unduly narrow his “ow” into
“ eow.” For instance, the animal which would be de-
scribed as a “ cah ’’ in London is a “ keow ” here. While
the Cockney gives true value to his “ o,” as in zone, the
Australian is apt to make it rhyme with gown, or some-
thing very close to it. Yes is “yuss” in London ; it is
“ yass ” or “ yairs ” in Australia, when it is not “ yair.”
While the Australian can give true effect to the “I ”
vowel, the Cockney falls down on it hopelessly.
East of Temple Bar fight is “ foight ”—just as poweiful a
foight as a hairy-toothed bhoy from Connemarra ever
made it. West of Temple Bar, it is “fate.” The Lon-
doner also comes to grief over other vowels that the Aus-
tralian pronounces correctly. The West-Ender uses
such words as Jolly and Mary as if they were spelled
“Jollay” and “Maray,” and girl is given to the world
as “gairl.” For instance, a benevolent coster might say,
“ Gavner, Oi think it roight ter sye as ah Miss Merry fell
awf ’er ’orse,” to which the aristocrat addressed would
reply, “ Miss Maray fell dahn ! What a jollay shame. Is
the paw gairl hairt, or is she all rate ? ”
* * * *
The Auckland (M.L.) police, who wear
blue spectacles for fear they may collide with a
bare idea, and who prosecuted all local picture
sellers having “ Psyche’s Bath ” on their premises,
received a further shock lately. An ordinary
drunk in a trousered condition was taken to the
watch-house and searched. The search dis-
closed the interesting fact that the drunk was a
Jewish lady. She attributed her cloth bifurca-
tions to a desire to do man’s manual work, which
seemed a surprising ambition. The nearest Rabbi
says that Bertha is the first case of a Jewish
drunk in his experience, and no wonder. A green
elephant is more common than a tight Israelite.
* * * *
Freiniet’s statue of the gorilla bearing off
a woman, presented to Vic. Gallery by the sculp-
tor, has been withdrawn from public exhibition,
the trustees considering it “unsuitable.” The
Statue is certainly not pretty, and the suggestion
is not nice to dwelLupon, but as a work of art it
is masterly, and miles ahead of nine-tenths of the
roly-poly pudding contained in the Victorian
collection of marbles. We get back to the simple
proposition : Which is the more objectionable in a
public art collection—paltry piffle that is wholly
decorous, or excellent work that is not conven-
tionally discreet? Would the Vic. Gallery
trustees display. Leda and the swan? Probably
not, for their discretion is so great that, judging
by their collection, the intelligent visitor may
assume propriety to end where art begins.
v * * *
If you have a bad cough don’t rely upon
ordinary soothing cough mixtures, but take
Angier’s Emulsion, which nob'only cures the most
obstinate cough but promotes appetite, aids diges-
tion and benefits the entire system. In three
sizes, of all chemists.*
Recently at Melbourne Court of General
Sessions, one of .Tack Wren’s former myrmidons
was charged with perjury—and acquitted. For
the past 14 years everybody who has got into
serious trouble in connection with the Colling-
wood tote has been acquitted. The accused in
this case was one William Porter, longtime an
employee at Wren’s tote, and a man who had
figured in one or more of the “tote raid”
cases as a defendant. It seems that on
February 23 Porter desired admission to his
old haunt, the tote. He was accompanied by
a blacksmith, and when the pair arrived at
the second gate they were biffed and bundled
off the premises by Hope Brown and Edward
O’Connor. The latter was the person employed
to sit on a kerosene tin at the outer boundary
of the Tote and kick the tin by way of warning to
the inner doorkeepers when he saw any suspicious-
looking policemen hovering around. Hope Brown
was one of Wren’s most notorious bullies and
trusted servants. Porter after being violently
biffed by Hope Brown (whilst O’Connor hustled
the blacksmith aforesaid), went to a constable and
lodged a complaint, on the strength of which Hope
Brown was charged at the Collingwood court and
fined £5 for the assault. Porter, however,
when called as a witness against his assail-
ant, denied that he could identify him, and
denied that he had made any statement to
the police, and even denied that he had been
assaulted at all. Therefore the £5 fine inflicted on
Hope Brown was a punishment for an assault
upon a man who subsequently said there was no
assault whatever. O’Connor also denied all
knowledge of Porter having been assaulted, &c.,
consequently the two were charged with per-
jury, one at a time. In O’Connor’s case, two out
of three of the Collingwood magistrates on the
Bench were good enough to give the prisoner the
benefit of the doubt. In William Porter’s case
there was a committal for trial, whereupon the
jury (after a quarter of an hour’s retirement)
found the old “tote’’-bird guiltless, the only
possible excuse for the verdict being the allega-
tion that Porter had been too drunk at the time
of the assault to retain any recollection of what
he did or said. But in the case of O’Connor no
plea of drunkenness was raised.
AFTER HIS COURSE.
The Kaiser’s son, Prince Oscar, is to finish his educa-
tion at Harvard University. —Daily Paper.
PRINCE OSCAR: “ I'm sick of this sauerkraut
life. Hain't you any niggers to burn? ”
“ Gip ” moralises :
Accuse no one of my death. I have killed myself volun-
tarily. Arrange my hair nicely. Cable to my father in
New York, and inform my friends in Paris.
The writer was Nathalie Dole-Lathom. She did
the deed in a blue satin gown, and died pictur-
esquely spread on her brocade-hung bed in her
giddy Paris flat. A man should never go alone
to visit a woman with a name like Nathalie Dole-
Latliom. She’s bound to act up to it, poor dear.
On the evening of the tragedy, the suicide enter-
tained till midnight an alleged “ sitter ’ (she was
an American artist of some merit, and aged 28),
and, after being most friendly to him, allowed
him to get halfway down the staircase and then,
with studied cussedness, shot herself dead. Ihe
ha’penny illustrated from which I cribbed this
does not say that the lady had masses of auburn
hair, but I know she had.
* » * *
Our Alfred seems to be plucking-up some
at The Imperial Conference. He realises that it
was expected of him to give the world a taste of
the wisdom and eloquence which a free countrv
can raise with the aid of D.C.L. TVhisky. iluch
inspired wisdom is expected from representatives
of a country whose best intellects are lubricated
by the Spirit of Progress—D.C.L. Whisky,
THE MAD MILLENNIUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Among' reforms being introduced into the Lunacy
Department is one for making provision for the more
thorough training of nurses and attendants who have to
look after the insane.— Argus.
No more the trembling maniac will gabble at the dawn,
And curse himself and wish that he were dead ;
He’ll dodder off to sleep again in linen fine as lawn,
All snug and springy in his patent bed.
No more the six-o’clockers, folding each his skimpy sheet,
Will snivel, sighing, plaintive-eyed and pale,
Or stand about and shiver, while their hearts in terror
beat
To hear the daily growls that never fail.
No more at early breakfast will the laggard loon be
scruff ed,
Nor will he find his mess of porridge cold ;
No longer must the wardsman by a cheerful mien be
bluffed,
For now the budding brainhouse-boss is told
Just how to nab the madman in a crooked, closing arm,
And sneak the towel around his noisy neck,
To wear him down politely so he’ll get no real harm—
The proper way to mend a mental wreck.
When wild the threshing lunatic runs raging, bosom-bare,
We’ll know enough to lead him gently back ;
No more we’ll crowd upon his chest and sit in silence
there,
And watch his purple visage turning black ;
And when he has recovered we will lay him fair and flat,
With cushions swarming round his poor old head ;
We’ll treat the epileptic like a brother, an’ all that,
And staunch him where his battered scalp has bled.
The crazy world must toil no more—the State will swab
the floors;
No need to use the torture, nape and wrist,
For cunning loonies clamoring to split their prison doors.
The sick and sore will have a medicine-list;
The violent, the dumbies, and the blind and halt and
maimed
Will find they’re classed as human, good and bad,
And, if a booted patient dies, the hooter will be blamed
For trying reckless methods on the mad.
And how we will enjoy our meals, when all the rest are
fed
On decent grub, well-served and piping hot !
To know their new potatoes have been peeled, and that
their bread
Is fresh and white ; and that their fare is not
Just slung at them on old tin plates—their beef no flaps
and skirts.
Plain boiled pigs’ ears no more, nor bullocks’ knees;
And if there are no napkins yet, at lease they’ll have clean
shirts,
Or they can lick their fingers, if they please.
From this day on the lunatic will be a man once more,
He’ll never cart ward-rubbish to and fro,
He’ll always be a Mister, and his pride will suffer sore
No longer at the call of “ Bill” or “ Joe !”
And when we see him breaking up—the certain signs we
know—
We’ll drop a tear and heave a bursting sigh ;
We'll handle him with tender care, we’ll speak him soft
and low—
In hopes our'dtttzy brother may not die.
VIC.
FRANK HENEY.
THE DRESSES OF DARLINGHURST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The collective awful dignity of Sydney Criminal Court
was held suspended last week while the police hurriedly
pursued a charmer who had failed to answer her bail. Just
as S’Honor was “lookingup ” to see if “ bilin’ile would
about meet the enormity, accused came in breathless but
smiling, and explained sweetly that, having ordered a
special new frock for the trial, she had suddenly found
the fib wasn’t what it might be, and she had been round
having things put right. She hoped S’Honor didn t mind
waiting, A flabbergasted Court was too dazed for words,
and the jury found “ Not Guilty.”
Come no more the modes from Paris ;
But where Prosecutor Harris
Tries to pot the maid who tarries
Under lock ;
In the place they call the Sessions,
Where they frown on our transgressions,
Now we gather our impressions
Prom the dock.
For Society will worry
Till, in wild, expectant hurry,
To the tribunal of Murray
Quick they flock—
There the lady with a passion
To put something new and flash on,
Can obtain the latest fashion
Prom the dock.
They can study dressy frocking,
Down to lingerie that’s mocking
O’er the dainty’ swell of stocking
And its clock.
They can learn if pleating odd is
g* Just the thing for blouse or bodice,
Where the entrance unto quod is
In the dock.
O.N.


We teach Students
all oyejjHiustfialia
Shortha n(
typewriting. Bookkeeping.
Pen-1
man-’
ship.
r Engineering
Architecture]
'Built
Leons
m
'Building
IConstructloii
We prepare
for all Public
Business, Technical and
General Educational
■Subjects. & x? £/■,.£/
and Hoare’s
business college.
Moore Street. £? Sydney
Meeh- ]
-anicaM
Drawing,
ł
"Home Study
sent Post
1 Free on ' ,
k Application i
The (one H* wd
Published MAY 1st.
May 1st is Australia’s birthday. On that day
these southern lands were first christened “ Terra
Australis del Spiritu Sancto.” The Bulletin
offers to Australia as a birthday present The
Lone Hand, which, it is hoped, will worthily fill
the place, long vacant, for an Australian monthly.
Australians with friends in exile abroad cannot
do better than send to them The Lone Hand to
mark the continent’s natal day. The subscription
for one year is 12s., post free to any part of the
world.
A good deal has been already said as to the
contents of the first (the May) number. The
second number is now partly in the press, and
readers of The Bulletin may be given an idea of
its contents as some sort of indication of the
steady standard of merit and interest that The
Lone Hand will preserve. In the first sheet of
the June number will be a Vivid personal sketch
of David Syme, the greatest living personality in
Australia, with a full-page portrait on plate
paper for framing. This is the first photograph
of David Syme ever published. A story by
Edward Dyson, “Two Battlers and a Bear,”
with illustrations by “Hop,” reaches the high-
water mark of Australian humor with pen and
pencil. Ethel Turner has a charming yarn, with
frequent illustrations by Sass, illustrating child
life in the backblocks. Albert Dorrington breaks
new ground with an Australian whaling story.
That represents the main features of one-
fourth of the issue; of course there are other
stories, and the full complement of special articles,
humorous and sentimental verse and pictures.
From all present indications the demand for
The Lone Hand will come up to the full level of
the supply. Make sure of getting it regularly by
subscribing either direct to the office or through
your nearest newsagent.
NOTICE TO AGENTS.
, Bulletin agents are urged to promptly notify
the office of the extent of their orders for The
Lone Hand. The Bulletin does not want any
of its old agents to be refused supply of the new
monthly; but first orders must take precedence,
and a second edition will not be attempted except
in case of a very speoial demand. To print The
Lone Hand’s first edition 950,000 runs through
the machines is necessary. That will give some
idea of the vastness of the printers’ task and give
point to the request, “ Send in your orders now.”
TnEl»NE.H* ND
214 George Street.
Sydney, Australia.
The other day a Melbourne paper had ah
advt. in which somebody expressed gratitude to
some other people for taking off their hats as
a funeral passed. This Victorian habit of saying
a public thank-you grows. We get this now
I GIVE public thanks to God for preserving my
brother and friends from harm during earthquake
and fire of San Francisco, 18th April, 1906. J. 0.
Harrop.
Apparently there is some quaint idea at the back
of this that God likes His works to be advertised
—as if He were a quack doctor or a patent pill.
Still The Bulletin isn’t out to interfere with Mr.
Harrop. It believes in letting Mr. Harrop think
of God just as he pleases, provided he can think
that way without treading on other people’s toes.
A pallid youth named Newsome or Noisome,
or something like that, who was convicted of fraud
in Sydney last week, played a dirty trick upon
the gaoler at Glen Innes. On his arrest Newsome
was cast into the Glen Innes gaol, and while there
evolved a marvellous story of rapine and piracy
on the high seas, which tale he embodied in a con-
fession to the gaoler. He told how he and three
other seamen on a British barque had shot the
captain and the mate, and taken to a raft, from
which they were picked up and carried to Pitcairn
Island. Newsome garnished his story with much
corroborative detail, and concluded by a remark
that there was a reward of £500 offered for him by
the British Government, and this he desired
should be paid to the gaoler. For three weeks
the confession was regarded as genuine, and the
gentleman who locks the doors at Glen Innes felt
like the man who draws first prize in Tattersall’s.
Then came the awful news that the prisoner had
never murdered anybody in his life, and ought to
be thoroughly ashamed of himself.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
I
ALL-BLUE UNDERWEAR.
An All-Wool and All-Blue (fast-colored) absolutely
unshrinkable Underwear, suitable for the season.
Its good features are—Brightness, Warmth, Com-
fort, and Perfect Fitting Qualities.
THEY ARE IDEAL GARMENTS FOR WINTER.
We know how difficult it is to get Underwear like this, but you
will find it exactly as we describe it.
Shirts or Pants, 5/0 Each.
•——Postage 6d, Extra,—
CUT THIS OUT.
Please send me Undershirts (or
Pants) for which I enclose
Size round Chest for Shirts Size
round Waist for Pants
MEN'S and BOYS'
l+t OUTFITTERS,.. .
309-311 George St., SYDNEY.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
The Sydney Council decided last week
tu remove the railings round Wynyard Park.
The present park was the drill ground when the
barracks surrounded the space in convict times.
In those days there was a high wall enclosing the
military quarters, and there was more racket
inside that wall than in all the rest of Sydney
put together. Seventy years ago the city had
developed its “wealthy lower orders,” and they
were willing to be exceedingly liberal for the sake
of association with the official or military caste,
and things were whooped up at their expense.
According to Captain Barney the feminine
charms of Sydney were particularly intoxicating at,
that period, and young commissioned officers had
to be chaperoned by elderly associates to keep
them from selling out and wedding flaxen-haired
harbor girls. And not British officers alone. The
Admiral of a French squadron which visited the
bay was so badly mashed one night that he wrote
out his resignation in haste, determined to stay
and live with the flaxendiaired girls all the rest of
his days. The Colonel in command of the
Barracks took him in hand and suppressed the
letter, explaining to.the Admiral that it was rash
to cast his cocked hat to the winds in that fashion.
Then the Admiral solemnly took off his cocked
bat and kicked it across the square, and damned
it for all the world to hear. But in the end he
was persuaded to resume the damaged gear and
sail awav.
* * *. *
The lamb-like methods of Spruce Myth’s
colored friends were lately illustrated in Perth
(W.A.) police court. Lee Fan was “up” for
being idle and disorderly. Lee’s compatriots,
for the prosecution, allowed that Fan was any-
thing but idle. He pursued a strenuous life as
chief of a staff of ten, who, for a munificent 15s.
weekly (raised from contributions forcibly levied
BETTER DEAD .
Have this one with me. It’s my birthday."
Right you are, old chappie. Here’s to you. an ’
better luck next time."
on the various Chow gambling dens), undertook to
see that Chows who gave police evidence in Chow
gatnbhngcases became seriously indisposed after-
wards. Evidence showed that Fan and his staff
carried out their duties faithfully. A misguided
beak made it merely four months, which Fan, as he
was led away, acknowledged by making mvs-
terious signs at a Chow witness in court. This
lndmdual excitedly informed the Bench that these
signs were Fan’s method of conveying that his
health would be poorly when Fan came out, or
even earlier than that.
BATHOS.
SHE (watching the effects of a golden sunset on the young gum trees): “ Oh, Arthur, observe
the gilded tints of Nature's smiting moods —so indescribably soulful, isn't it?”
HE (from the depths of the picnic basket): “ Yes. Did you bring the tin-opener?”
The Sydney police have just roped in a
brigand named Alexander Fleet, who has lived
for five years by collecting round the suburbs
on behalf of bogus cricket and football
clubs, debating societies, and other athletic or
trashy institutions. He seems to have plodded
all these years round a few of the eastern suburbs,
and he didn’t disguise himself in any way save in
his cloak of impudence. Either Alexander had
amazing luck, or else the Sydney police are
amazingly tired.
» • * *
“David H. Richards”: It is all very
well for Judkins (who never raises a sweat, but
wanders round the cool, delightful city, clad in
black cloth and self-righteousness, assuring all
and sundry in an emphatic
tojje that they are doomed to
eternal damnation), and for the
sliaggy-haired female ass (who
rages at meetings in cool, de-
lightful halls, and then goes
home to where the slavey has
four-o’clock tea waiting), to
declaim against beer. But put
Juddy on the outer Paroo, with
a team of unwilling Oxen and
the sun registering 1013 degrees
in the drought bag, and ask
him then if he’d like a beer,
and see what he’d say. Or
stick that towsy-headed she-
male brawler in a sweltering
iron hovel on Oloncurry, or out
where the dead blokes and
camels repose, and where green
slime is sold at 2s. fid. a tank,
and often more, and see if she
wouldn’t relish beer. When
you have been riding all day
in a withering warmth, or en-
gaging your native land with
a pick, or exhorting the bull’s
brethren with a piece of their
deceased mate’s hide to pull
the waggon, there is no greater
pleasure in the scheme of things
than to walk into the liar and
get a long glass of cool, frothy
beer (not too much froth) which
the Boniface has had in the
cellar all day. As it glides
coolly down your throat all the
woes of life evanesce, and the
menaces of Fate; and there grows
within you a large amiability, and you love your
neighbor as yourself, and ask him to have one
too. There is nothing the matter with beer.
I think even God would drink beer !
* » • *
A correspondent of London Daily News
has called attention to the treatment of girl-
models at fashionable costumiers’ establishments.
They must not exceed 16in. waist measurement.
Any increase means investiture with the ancient
order of the sack, so they lace within an inch of
their lives to keep inside the pay limit. Instances
are cited where the wretched, squeezed, crushed
girl died of compression, but it isn’t stated that
she perished on the draper’s premises, and so long
as she doesn’t perpetrate that outrage nothing
matters. There are plenty more girls.
• * • *
It is the commercial traveller who finds
the many changes of climate and water trying.
The experience of Mr. Chas. G. Chapman, who
represents a large Brisbane concern, is not the
exception. He had been troubled for years with
chronic diarrhoea, and was especially bad when in
North Queensland. On one of his trips a fellow
traveller recommended him to try Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy, which he
did, and what he has to say is most interesting :
“I procured a bottle the first opportunity, and
experienced great relief after taking a few doses,
and was cured before the bottle was finished. I
have not been troubled since, and wish to recom-
mend this wonderful medicine to anyone suffering
from the same complaint.”
Carry a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy in your hand-luggage
when travelling. It cannot be procured on board
the train or steamship. For sale everywhere,
Is. 6d.*
Frank Morton, from Wellington (Maori-
land): The town is full of little yellow men,
smirking offensively out of their uniforms. The
Japs squeeze into the shops and saunter in crowds
of sidling menace along the footways, peering,
comparing, grinning. The girls ogle them, the
small boys form their escort. And always up
their sleeves the yellow parasites laugh, finding
no new marvel in our invincible stupidity. Im-
portant little reporters lard the invaders with
flatulent easy adjectives ; heavy fathers in the
suburbs write effusive limping verses to the aliens’
eyebrows ; perspiring secretaries serve them with
cakes and tea. And I, who have spent years
in Asia, and love some Asiatics in their
place, am sick of this damned foolishness
—sick and disgusted. These Japanese are
the veriest pests of Asia. The women are toler-
able ; but the men of Japan are stings that stalk
and stab in the dark, treacherous and soulless
little vermin that foul the blessed earth. They
are the carrion of a land where the very pretence
of freedom is a ghastly farce, where the abomina-
nations of cruelty slaver with insatiable maws
behind their masks of velvet, where miseries
untold, and such outrage as we dare scarcely
think of in nightmares, are hatching for our race.
The rise of the Japanese is the deadliest conceiv-
able menace to all Western progress and all clean
ideals. They come to smell out the land, so
that the game of barbarism and rapine may
be played with the better security by and by.
And our girls gloat on their squat repulsive
ugliness, and our old women of both sexes butter
the beast with plaudits, and our leaders unctuously
clear the way for the devil. Australasia is super-
ficial, and drunken with its own smug conceit.
It makes a fearful pother as it stops chance indi-
vidual aliens at its ports, but to alien spies in
cohorts it offers fulsome welcome amid much
rustle of dainty petticoats. The man who permits
his womankind to come into contact with these
creeping helots deserves—but what he deserves
cannot be expressed in phrases tolerable in a
family paper in 1907. We badly need re-adjust-
ment —a lot less talk, and a lot more s'ense. As I
write three Japs are passing the house. A dozen
bright boys are at their heels, holding their hands.
Faugh!
* * * *
The work of sorting out the returns from
the country district registrars, as they reach the
office of the N.S.W. Registrar-General of births,
deaths and marriages, recently fell to a new and
youthful clerk, and one of the first certificates he
received read ‘ ‘ Date of marriage, 18/9/’O6; date
of birth, 27/l/’07.” The clerk had been properly
brought up, and only saw that an obvious error
had been made by the registrar. So he returned
the form with a query : “Is not this wrong ? ” The
reply was equally laconic: “It is very wrong,
but it is quite correct.” That youth has blushed
over a lot of certificates since then, and knows
more than he did.
A WAIL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
<• Are the Wicked Enduring Torment in Hell ? ” Free
Pablk Lecture, the Hall, Queen’s Walk. Come. Bring
your Bible.— Aoe advt.
Oh I say not there can be a doubt
Of wicked souls, in endless flame,
Burning the ages in and out
Struggling in incandescent shame I
Oh ! say not ease can them employ ;
I am a Christian English boy.
1 bring my Bible when I come
To worship on each worship day ;
And, when I hear the dead are dumb
And burn eternities away,
Then am I full of holy joy—
I am a Christian English boy.
For, if the wicked do not burn,
And agonise the ages through,
Each skin become a hissing urn—
The atmosphere a molten blue —
How could life be without alloy
To me—a Christian English boy?
I bring my Bible in my hand,
And hope that torments will endure
For all the irreligious band,
Who’ve earned a lofty temperature.
Oh ! say not Hell can ever fade !
The best of modern coal employ ;
And do not with these doubts upbraid
An earnest, Christian English boy.
VIC,
MARTIN LUTHER.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, viz.: Portable and Fixed Engines, Tractions
Steam Waggons, High Speeds, Gas and Oil Engines, Winding
Engines, Thrashers, etc., etc.
Brunton’s Sootch Wire Rope. Hayward’s English Sheep Dip Pearn’B English Pumns Fupi Po„ nnml „ 01 .,
best.* am sjraLsfef*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
After the announcement of the issue of new
stock, shares in the Bank of New South Wales and the
Commercial Bank of Sydney sprang two or three pounds,
and then eased back again. The new issues are to be in
the proportion of one to four, and to make up the even
four there was a rush for odd shares. That caused the
rise. The question now bothering some investors is—
What will the shares fall back to after the new issues ?
At present they are sold cum rights—“ Wales ”at about
£52 ; “Commercials” at about £32. Four Wales shares
will cost £2OB ; one of the new issue will then cost £2O ;
total for five, £228, or an average of £45 12s. each. An
investor who buys at £62 now would, therefore, get very
fair interest (at the rate of about 7 per cent, per annum)
if at the end of June he could sell at £46. In other
words, other things being equal, the shares if worth
£52 now will be worth £46 at the end of June. At
£46 they will then give an investment return of £4 7s. per
cent., assuming that the 10 percent, dividend is con-
tinued. Possibly £4 7s. may not be thought enough for
a stock which won’t have much to hope for in the way of
increased dividend, &e., for some time. If a4£ per cent,
return is required, then the market will have to come
down to £44 95., and the present equivalent of £44 9s.
would be about £SO 11s. cum rights.
As for the Commercial of Sydney, at £32 four
shares will cost £l2B, and the fifth will cost £ls ; total
£143 ; average, £2B 12s. So, buying at £32, an investor
will get good interest if he can sell at £29 in July (the
new shares may be paid for on June 29). At £29 the stock
will return £4 6s. 4d. per cent., assuming that the Bank
goes on paying alO per cent, dividend. If a4£ per cent,
return is required, then the quotation must come down
to £27 155., which is equal to about a present £3O 18s.
per share mm rights.
* * * *
The National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne), from the time the forfeited capital was added to
reserves and £68,000 was then written off
Dividends
Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 3 p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Sept., 1900 .. £27,065 £17,887 £7644 £1,534 £66,737
Mar., 1901 .. 28,448 17,887 7644 2,917 69,654
3J p.c.
Sept., 1901.. 32,050 20,868 7644 3,538 73,192
Mar., 1902..- 34,394 20,868 7644 5,882 79,074
Sept., 1902.. 35,038 20,868 7644 6,526 85,600
Mar., 1903.. 34,660 20,868 7644 6,148 91 748
Sept., 1903.. 34,874 20,868 7644 6,362 98 110
.Mar., 1904.. 36,233 20,868 7644 7,721 105,831
Sept., 1904 .. 36,950 20,868 7644 8,438 114,269
Mar., 1905.. 36,130 20,868 7644 7,618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905.. 36,104 23,849 7644 4,611 126,498
Mar., 1906 .. 41,144 23,849 7644 9,651 136,149
4£ p.c.
Sept., 1906.. 44,982 26,830 7644 10,608 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907 .. 48,158 29,811 7644 10,703 157,360
The National Bank at the time of the crisis had 250,000
shares paid to £4. Subsequently £3 per share was called
up, and £2 was written off ; and 11,512 shares were for-
feited for unpaid calls. The bank at the time had
£6,844,884 of deposits; the last of them were got rid of in
1900. Meantime they had mostly carried 4J per cent.
In the same year dividends were lesumed on ordinary
shares ; and since then the movement has been as shown
above. On the whole, therefore, those interested have
come out of the troubles remarkably well. Nothing-
heroic was, however, done; and this fact has no doubt
compelled the bank to write dow-n doubtful values out
of profits. Probably this affects the figures in the
table above, which, as they stand, show that the profits
have increased 75 per cent, since 1900. Values of most
securities have been advancing, and that may have
satisfied the management that much less provision
for internal writing down is now necessary. The
scheme of reconstruction provided that the pref. shares
are entitled tc a permanent 5 per cent, preference ; and
they are to participate in any dividend in excess of 5 per
cent. But their preference as to capital (not as to divi-
dend) disappears when 10 half-ye rly divs. of 7 percent,
or more have been paid. Both lots of shares now carry
5 per cent.; any future increase will therefore have to be
shared all round. And it is possible that, as in proportion
to capital the reserves are very small, any extra profit will
be allowed to accumulate until the directors can see their
way to lift the dividend at once to 7 per cent. Ordinary
shares will, anyway, be best served in the end by that
policy.
Twelve months ago the National’s deposits
passed the point which they had reached when the crisis
arrived. As the following figures show', there was a
further large increase during the past year
Mar., 1906. Mar., 1907.
Notes £260,523 £293,627 Inc. £33,104
Bills, &e 1,683,241 1,166,848 Dec. 516,393
Deposits at interest .. 4,012,427 4,568,883 Inc. 556 456
Free Deposits .. .. 2,849,760 3,332,778 Inc. 483’,018
Liquid Assets .. ..3,811,687 4,015,515 Inc. 203,828
Advances .. .. 6,123,436 6,602,809 Inc. 479 373
Premises, &c 647,320 551,645 Dec. 95,675
The present situation is that, including interest due,
debts to other banks, etc., the bank owes the public
£9,476,933, and has £4,015,515 of liquid assets. It has
therefore £5,461,418 of debt not covered by liquid assets,
and against that debt it has £7,154,454 of advances’
properties, i&c., which is equal to £1 6s. 2d. in the £ of
the debt. Whether that is too little (or too much,
if there can be too much) depends upon the
liberality of the bank in making advances, and also upon
whether the old wreckage has been thoroughly cleared
up. As to the latter point, profits certainly do not show
up very high, and that would suggest that there is still
some poor stuff on the books. On the basis of capital and
reserves, profits have lately moved like this
Sept., 1903 ..£4 7 9 p.c. Sept., 1905 .. £4 9 lpe
Mar., 1904 .. 410 10 „ Mar., 1906 .. 5 1 3
Sept., 1904 .. 412 1 „ Sept., 1906 .. 5 910 ”
Mar., 1905 .. 4 9 7 „ Mar., 1907 .. 517 l
And, as pointed out previously, the bank has the use of
£9,476,933 of public money, or very nearly £6 for every
£1 of its owm capital and reserves ; so the rate ought to
be high. Possibly the current profits are higher, but are
still being used to fill up what is left of the old hole ; and
that looks very likely.
* * * ■*
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Sept., 1901.. £6,700 5 p.c. = £3750 £2,950 £21809
Mar., 1902 .. 7,061 5 „ „ 3750 8 811 25120
Sept., 1902.. 7,095 5 „ ~ 3750 3,345 28 465
Mar., 1903.. . 7,380 5,, „ 3750 3,630 32 095
Sept., 1903 .. 6,819 6,. „ 4500 2,319 34 414
Mar., 1904 .. 7,556 6 „ „ 4500 3,056 37470
Sept., 1904 .. 7,333 6 „ „ 4500 2,833 40’303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 „ „ 4500 3,835 44*138
Sept., 1905 .. 8,238 6,, ~ 4500 3,738 47 876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 „ „ 5250 4,822 52 698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 „ „ 5250 4>29 57 627
Premiums on new shares .. .. 12,500 70’127
Mar., 1907 .. 12,882 7,, ~ 5687 7J95 77^322
Thjs bank was started in Victoria in the perilous year
1888, and, remembering that, it has done remarkably
well, even though for the four years 1893-6 it paid no
dividend at all, and then only got back to the dividend
list by facing the situation and writing off half its capital.
The other half (£150,000) has served till a few months
ago, when it was decided to issue a further 50,000
shares a,t a premium of ss. This will make
200,000 issued, on all of which there is a
liability of £4 per share. Also there is the right
to issue a further 400,000 shares, so future possible expan-
sion (as well as future possible collapse, looking at the
matter from the depositors’ point of view) is amply pro-
vided for. The recent expansion of business and profits
has been very marked ; this has been partly due to the
bank (which stuck to Melbourne exclusively for many
years) spreading out to Bendigo and Ballarat. The
increase of capital was a most proper course to adopt;
deposits in seven years had grown from £368,217 to
£1,155,642, and were still growing rapidly ; and as the
shareholders’ interest in the business amounted to only
about one-fourth of the assets, further security for the
protection of outside creditors was called for. The
position at the end of the half-year, when £55,262 of the
new capital and premium had been got in, is that the
capital and reserves represent 6s. 2d. in the £ of all-
non-liquid assets ; in other words, non-liquid assets could
slump 6s. 2d. in the £ below book values before deposits
and other creditors’ money would be jeopardised ; and
that ought to be a safe margin. Put in another wav, the
liquid assets represent 54 per cent, of the debts to the
public.
The progress of the Royal Bank in the past 12
months is further shown here :
Mar., 1906. Mar., 1907.
Notes in circulation.. £11,419 £14,205 Inc. £2,786
Bills in circulation, &c. 37,085 130,189 Inc. 93,104
Deposits at interest.. 797,089 956,706 Inc. 159,617
Free deposits.. .. 255,416 219,680 Dec. 35,736
Liquid assets .. 607,647 715,064 Inc. 107,417
Advances .. .. 624,024 812,112 Inc. 188,088
Premises, &c 77,286 70,437 Dec. 6,849
The increase in advances and bills in circulation is
striking. A bank, of course, must make advances to earn
profits, but prices of Australian products are abnormally
high just now, and, in consequence, it is easy enough to
over-estimate the true value of securities. A large and
rapid growth of advances is therefore to be viewed with
some suspicion—how much depends agreatdeal upon the
management. A true comparison of earnings with
previous earnings is difficult on account of the new capital
which has been dribbling in during the half-year ; but on
the basis of capital and reserves as at the beginning of
recent terms the profits show up as follows
Mar., 1904 .. £7 9 9 p.c. I Sept., 1905 .. £8 9 9 p.c.
Sept., 1904 .. 8 311 „ | Mar., 1906.. 10 3 7 „
Mar., 1,905 .. 716 6 „ I Sept., 1906 .. 10 010 „
Sept., 1905.. 515 2 „ | Mar., 1907 ... 12 8 2,,
But, for the reason mentioned just now, these figures
represent the past half-year’s results too favorably, "still,
allowing for that, they are very fine figures, and could
not have been possible had not the directors done the
heroic thing some years ago and, by passing dividends
and writingjdown capital, effected a thorough cleaning up.
Concerning the abnormally high markets for
Australian products, mentioned above, the N.S.W.
monthly Statistical Bulletin publishes a table of price
levels, taking the average of 1901, the first vear of the
Commonwealth, as the basis (= 1000). The following is
dug out of the Statistical Bulletin's data
Pastoral products Metals (silver,
(wool, tallow, &c.). lead, copper, tin).
1901 i. 1000 1000
1902 .. 1096 935
1903 .. 1125 992
1904 .1 1112 1011
1905 1192 1149
1906 ... 1316 1432
1907(Jan.) 1426 1596
1907 (Feb.) 1418 1619
1907(Mar.) 1446 1593
One question no doubt is whether the 1901 prices were
not abnormally low. Ooghlan (“ Australia and New Zea-
land,” 1902-3) compiled a price-level of exports, which he
brought down to 1902 ; and the results for 10 years to
that time were as follows (the basis, or 1000, in this case
was the average for 1870-4) :
1893 .. .. 590 1898 .. .. 590
1894 .. .. 532 1899 .. .. 736
1895 .. .. 546 1900 .. .. 682
1896 .. .. 573 1901 '.. .. 659
1897 .. .. 557 1902 .. .. 700
For the 10 years up to and including 1901 the mean price-
level was 612 ; so that the price-level of 1901, so far as
general exports were concerned, was considerably above
the average of the previous decade. Therefore, com-
pared with the average prices of the 10 years up to and
including 1901, the present prices would appear even
more abnormal than they show in the list above.
♦ * * »
A preliminary estimate of the world’s gold
production for last year has been made from £21,250,000
in 1885 the total has reached £82,000,000 in 1906. With
an accumulation of that size going on, it is pretty certain
that prices, measured by gold, must show some effect.
» * * *
The Rivekina Frozen Meat Cos. (Melbourne):
Divi- Written To Re- Re-
March, Profits, dends. Off. serves. serves
1898 .. £IB9B nil £I3OO £598 £5 947
1899 .. 197 „ 546 5,’598
1900 .. 2578 ~ 2578 .8,176
1901 .. 7413 ~ 998 6415 14 591
1902 .. 267 „ 676 14,182
Losses.
1903 .. 2867 „ 171 11144
1904 .. 2612 „ _ «’ 500
1905 .. 1778 149 • -
1906 .. 894 ~ 32 5,679
Profit.
1907 .. 551 „ 370 181 5,860
The reserves as set out above are purely nominal. For
some years the works were idle, and nothing was written
off for depreciation ; the amounts shown above as written
off are sums paid for current replacements. Latterly the
works have been leased ; the gross earnings on that account
were £1478 during the past year, which is equal to £3 2s
per cent, on the book value of freeholds and plant. From
that interest (5 per cent.) had to be paid on £15,000 of de-
bentures, originally payable in 1906, but extended to 1909.
This liability must be a worry to shareholders who are
not also debenture-holders, if they haven’t got past
worrying. Probably they had got beyond it once ; but
the stocking-up of the country, and the prospect of the
co. finding meat-freezing again more or less profitable
in the Riverina, may have revived hope. Prices of live-
stock are, however, still too high to let such a co. do
much good ; but the increase of flocks and herds is rapid
and a couple of years may once again see profit in the
business. So far as can be traced, the co. has never paid
a dividend ; if the shareholders have got any advantage
at all out of the co., it has been because, as "people who
are mostly interested in Riverina stock-raising, the works
have provided an outlet for surplus stock, and so stiffened
the local market.
* » * *
The Townsvilbk Gas and Coke Cos. (Q.)_
Writ-
Dividend and ten To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividend Tax. off. serves serves
1901 .. - 12£ p.c. =£1969 - _ £3953
1902 .. £3505 10 „ 1575 £1930 5883
1903 .. 3466 10 „ 1575 1802 89 5972
1904 .. 3705 10 ~ 1575 2130 8102
1905 .. 3751 10 ~ 1575 1691 485 8587
1906 .. 3504 12| ~ 1969 1335 200 8787
1907 .. 3738 12J „ 1969 1299 470 9257
This very prosperous co., besides paying large dividends
reduced the price of gas for power purposes in 1905 took
8 =- Per cent, off gas for lighting in 1906, and this year makes
afurther9 percent, reduction for lighting andcookinggas •
also out of undivided profit and depreciation reserve it
has in two years reduced an overdraft from £3311 to
£1757. The' amount written off, as shown above
during the past two years has amounted to an
annual 5 per cent, on freeholds, mains and plant •
in 1905 it was something over 6 per cent. The
reserves are all in the business ; and certainly
while the business keeps where it is, a more profitable
investment would be hard to find for them, seeing' that
on all assets (except book debts) the net return last year
was 9 per cent. There are risks, of course ; but, though
Townsville has given up most of the high hopes it once
had of being a great city, better times outback and Kid-
ston’s extension of the railway to Cloncurry, justify it in
having a shade more confidence in itself.
•» * *
The little Horsham (Yie.) Gas Cos. is just at the
end of a very long climb. Twenty-five years ago the
township decided to provide itself with gasworks, but of
1200 £5 shares which the promoters offered only 595 were
got off=£297s. As the works cost £5900, the directors
borrowed £3OOO on their joint and several guarantee ;
and the last £IOO of this money will be paid off next
month. The whole of the debt has been wiped out with
profits, and from time to time as the money' has been
paid off the works have been written down, so that they
now only stand at £3056. Meantime a very moderate
div. (2£ to 6 per cent.) has been paid. Now, with the old
dead-horse got rid of, the co. will be able to put a little
aside by way of a cash reserve to meet any extraordinary
trouble that may arise. Chairman John Langland w'as
one of the original directors, and has been on the Board
all the time it has been slowly but persistently dragging
itself out of its original bog of debt.
» * « *
Permewan, Wright and Cos., Ltd., carriers,
&c., of Melbourne and elsewhere :
Net Written To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1898 .. £4514 10 p.c. = £3750 £764 £21,148
1899 .. 3769 10 ~ „ 3750 l9 21,167
1900 .. 4036 9,, ~ 4062
1901 .. 4552 8 „ „ 4479 £7500 13,714
1902 .. 5150 8,, ~ 5000 7500 6,364
1903 .. 6630 8 „ „ 5000
Loss. • Deficit.
1904 .. 594 3 „ „ 1876 9662 4,137
1905 .. 4225 Nil 136 8,498
1906 .. 1560 Nil 1022 11,086
Profit.
1907 .. 5364 Nil 308 5056 6,030
There is a “ plant deficiency account,” £6128, which
explains most of the deficit; bn the other side there is a
profit and loss credit of £9B. Apparently the plant de-
ficiency account means that in former years not
enough was written off for wear and tear, and that
on revaluation a deficiency was found. If this is the
explanation it also meins that the alleged profits in those
years were fictitious to the extent of the amount which
should have been written off to cover depreciation. Even
in this past year, though £3562 has been spent on repairs
to plant and charged against revenue, £3OB has been
added to the paper asset in the balance sheet. It seems
about time to start writing off these amounts; in the
foregoing table they are, of course, written off (following
the rule to disregard paper assets wherever they can be
detected). The present system is absurd; it is no use
revaluing assets every year if the shortage, when there
is one, isn’t made up out of profits: it isn’t any use
taking paper values out of one line of the balance sheet
merely to drop them into another. Apart from that, a
great improvement is disclosed. In 1905, the company’s
bad year, earnings got down to £31,129 (they had been up
to £59,450 in 1903); in the past year they were £44,209.
The co. depends largely upon back-country carrying
business, by road and river ; and the general prosperity
in those erratic parts explains the improvement.
* * * *
Victoria now has £406,531 of abandoned rail-
way on its conscience, including sections that have been
torn up—all relics of the glorious days of Gillies. Up to
date there is no word of Oohen abandoning any of the
I O U’s with which Victoria built the lines.
« * * *
The antimony market has been demoralised for
the last few weeks, and some Australian buyers have not
cared to touch the metal at any price. Others, for ore
which early this year brought £25, have bought down to
£ls. Though less has .been said about it, last year’s rise
in the antimony market was greater than that in any
other largfely-used industrial metal. In February, 1905,
star regulus was worth (London) £36 to £4O per ton ; by
the beginning of 1906 it was £63 to £65; in four months
after that it had reached £95 to £IOO ; and the market
kept good all the year, closing at £lO5 to £llO. In
February, 1905, ore (50 per cent, basis) was worth £8 to
£9 ;in February, this year, £25 to £35. Crude antimony
meantime had risen from £l3 to £so—buyers’ quotations
in each case. Early this year North Queensland buyers
were paying £2l for ore which two years before they were
getting for £6, and buyers in tiie Hillgrove district
(N.S.VV.) W’ere paying £3O where, 18 months before, £9 to
£lO was the best offer. Since February there have been
nothing but violent fluctuations.
Last year it was believed that an anti-
mony “ corner ” had been established ; but it got
no further than a suspicion. Most of the world’s
supply comes from China; and that supply is in a few
hands. Moreover, there are practically no antimony
statistics ; the market is more in the dark than it is about
even tin, and very few people are in a position to make
any sort of a guess as to what will happen next. When the
market did its recent 200 per cent, jump it was explained
that the demand had greatly increased owing to the large
use of anti-friction metal in machinery ; also, more of it
was wante i for the ammunition factories. But no figures
of any value were ever submitted. The market manipu-
lations are made easy by the fact that a great deal of the
antimony exported (from N.S. Wales, for instance) isn’t
exported as antimony; nevertheless, that State’s declared
exports jumped from £5221 in 1905 to £52,645 in 1906.
This did not include the silver-lead furnaces’ antimonial
lead, which was reckoned in with the lead. The future
of such a market is, of course, a dark mystery. Even
without any manipulation it must be as uncertain as a
Queensland politician.
Developments of processes for separating anti-
mony from gold ores may also be affecting the price
The McArthurs, of Glasgow, the people who produced
the cyanide process, and led to millions of tons of
tailings being turned into gold, lately produced a
process for extracting antimony, “leaving the "old
contents practically intact, and capable of being? as
fully recovered by the ordinary methods of cyanidation
or chlorination as if dealing with virgin ore.” They
certified to that effect with regard to Mitchell River
(N.Q.) ore, from which they said they “ readilv recovered
from 93 to over 95 per cent, of the antimony contents ’
* * * *
April divs. declared by Westralian cos. totalled
£274,312, against £323,563 for April, 1906. The respon-
sible cos. are: Horseshoe, 65., £90,000; Ivanhoe 9s
£90,000; Kalgurli, 7s. 6d, £45,000; Fingall, 2s.’ 6d!’
£31,250; Gwalia, Is., £16,250 ; and Black Range, od!’
£lßl2 10s. The South Kalgurli will pay Is. in May.
♦ * * *
Westralia and East Extension, Bonnievale
(W.A.), has been prominently brought before the public
owing to the sensational rescue of the Italian Varischetti
by diver Hughes. The mine is managed by Theodore
Rubischum, representing a Continental (European) syn-
dicate, and, as all the shares are held abroad, the doings
of the co. are rarely heard of, and no interest is taken in
it even in Westralia. The mine first came before the
public a couple of years ago, when several Britishers were
gaoled for assaulting a number of Italians, who kept on
cutting the prices for stoping. Since then the feeling
between the two nationalities has been bitter in the
extreme, and until “Tassie” Hughes volunteered to
rescue the entombed Dago, probably there wasn’t an
Italian miner on the field who had any doubt that every
Britisher was merely waiting his chance to blow out every
Italian miner’s life. The rescue should improve the feel-
ing between the two ; and, perhaps, now that they know
another of the dangers of the business, the Dagoes
may be less disposed to quote below current rates for
their work underground. During February the co.
treated 2443 tons for 33580 z. of bullion, worth £12,300,
but no particulars of cost are given. It is, and has long-
been, the most productive mine in the Coolgardie district.
* * * *
Lake View Consols, Kalgoorlie, is not quite so
dead as some people believe. On June 30 ore reserves
were estimated at 121,400 tons, worth 30s. 9d. ; and on
December 31 at 140,000 tons, worth 295. 3d. In the inter-
val about 70,000 tons were treated, so, on this basis, about
90,000 tons were developed. The worst feature about the
mine is that, owing to the poor results attained in the
lower levels, no sinking is being done. The co. still
holds, or is supposed to hold, 71,000 shares in Broken Hill
South Blocks, and £18,700 in the Burmah Mines Railway
and Smelting Cos. Of the latter concern nothing has
been heard since it was floated a year ago to work some
ancient silver mines in the place adjacent to where the
other white elephants come from.
Associated, Kalgoorlie, is being inspected by
Feldtman, who, years ago, was in charge oi the Brown
Hill. Several boreholes have been put in during his
visit, and one of these, from the twelfth level, cut the
Australia east lode, which assayed 30dwt. for a width of
lift. This lode, though rich in parts, has always been
very patchy, so that not much notice need be taken of
this find. The mine’s patched-up plant is now running
to its full capacity, and treating 10,000 tons monthly;
but costs continue abnormally 7 high compared with those
of its neighbors. Tinkering condemned plants is a costly
and unprofitable proceeding.
■* y < •
Kalgurli (W.A.) has had two bad months in
succession, profits being down to £18,000 and £18,350.
This looks rather ominous when one remembers that the
monthly profits before that averaged well over £20,000.
Certainly excuses are forthcoming. The decline during
February' was attributed to the short month, and' in
March to installing a new engine. But excuses .won’t fill
pockets. The mine is now being opened up at 1250ft.
and 1350ft., and the future of the co. greatly depends on
the behavior of the lodes at those levels.
* * * *
Hainault, Kalgoorlie, has its main shaft down
950ft., and will simultaneously open levels at 850ft. and
950ft., and this work should largely increase the ore re-
serves. A year ago the reserves were given as 241,000
tons, worth 31s. a ton, but extraction runs no higher
than between 28s. and 29s., and profit in February was
only £830. Unless this can be vastly improved upon the
present price of the shares is not justified. The erection
of the new plant, begun nine months ago, is making very
slow progress, and it is hard to say when it will make a
start. Unless costs can be very materially reduced (and
much in that way does not seem very probable), profits
cannot be very large, even if the output is doubled.
* it- * *
Hidden Secret, Kalgoorlie, has undergone a
thorough sampling by six of B., M. and Co.’s exptrts, who
have reported against purchase. Were a really strong co. to
get hold of the mine, hundreds of men would be employed,
instead of the present dozen or so. The owners have
thus far merely followed a rich pipe of ore down to 400ft.,
and rooted out 732 tons, which y ielded 10,563oz. gold and
38,157oz. silver by smelting. The lovver grade milling
ore has been almost entirely 7 disregarded. All the ground
in the vicinity has been more or less neglected, only a
few prospecting shafts having been sunk, notwithstand-
ing the marvellous richness of the Secret.
* ■» » *
Oroya-Brown Hill, Kalgoorlie, is, according to
cables, to reduce its monthly output to £30,000, and its
quarterly divs. to 2s. 6d. The output has lately been in
the neighborhood of £50,000, and the profit about
£36,000. If the output is reduced by £20,000, the profit
will fall below £20,000, and this will hardly admit of a
quarterly 7 div. of 2s. 6d., which absorbs £225,000 a year.
It has long been known that the output depended on the
famous shoot, which is gradually being depleted ; out-
side of that, the mine is of little account. Oh December
31 the ore reserves were estimated at 250,000 tons, worth
£5 a ton. If the output is to be reduced to £30,000, it
means, if the same tonnage is handled, that the ore
reserves are worth only £3 a ton, and that they were
ridiculously overvalued, as they were also at Great Fin-
gall. But in the latter case even such an expert as O. M.
Rolker blundered. Westralian experience doesn’t encour-
age one to pin much faith to estimates, no matter who
makes them.
* * * *
Oroya Black Range (W.A.) will probably join
the producers in September. It is to be equipped with a
20-head mill and cyanide plant, and is expected to treat
3000 tons monthly, of an average value of about 7(|s. per
ton. Ore reserves above 175ft. are estimated at-44,000
tons, and this is said to be arrived at on a conserva-
tive basis. Much development has been done sijrice the
property was acquired in May 7 , 1906. At 110ft. the reef
has been driven on for over 1000ft. and ranges up to 10ft.
wide. At a depth of 300ft. it has been proved by drill
holes to be 7ft. to 8ft. wide, so there seems no reason to fear
that it won’t live down in hard country 7 . The Sandstone
Development people, however, contend that owing to its
flatness the reef will pass into their property 7 at between
350ft. and 450ft. and are now sinking to prove this.
The Oroya Black Range started with a working capita)of
£50,000, but it is reckoned that the cost and transport
of equipment will absorb all of that. Cartage from
Magnet—about 100 miles —costs £5 10s. a ton. A tele-
graph line is now being erected, and a railw'ay will
shortly be commenced, and should give the district a
big lift.
• * * *
Davyhurst (W.A.) is under a dark cloud at
present. The Golden Pole mill has been shut down, and
its future is in doubt. As two crosscourses, which cut
off the reef, are converging and will meet at 700ft. if the
present angle of dip is continued, the life of the mine is
limited. The Waihi mill is hung up, and will probably
remain- so for some time, and the co. is never,likely to
earn divs. The Homeward and Homeward Bound are
both being developed with Calcutta money, but neither
is promising. The Great Ophir, the most hopeful mine
in the district, has been languishing for lack of capital.
The Star of Israel, adjoining th Ophir, was to have been
floated on the field, but the option expired at the end of
March, and the mine is thrown back on the prospectors.
Davyhurst has earned such an unenviable reputation that
investors and speculators are chary of risking money in
the district, and it will take a lot to shift that feeling
now.
* * * *
Great Ophir, which has all along languished for
want of capital, and has recently been comatose, is to
haveone more chance. It is reported that a heavily in-
terested Adelaide speculator has agreed to put up another
£8000 to help things along. The property is far and away
the most promising in the Davy hurst district, and con-
tains a large lode, which must not be confounded with
the erratic, patchy reefs of the Golden Pole and Waihi.
Manager Fey, who is a pretty cautious person, puts the
ore in reserve at 40,000 tons, w-orth 36s., while his pre-
decessor put it as high as 65,000 tons, worth 42s. 6d. Two
prospecting shafts have proved the lode to exist and
carry good values for 1500ft. north of the present work-
ings, so it looks as if the mine is well worth holding. The
financial methods of the bosses of the concern have
always been open to question, and delays in payment of
wages, and for stores and cartage, made' constant trouble.
If Manager Fey gets a free hand, shareholders will have
a run for their money.
•* m + *
Bellevue, Mt. Samuel (W.A.), has got to the
end of its tether, and is being reconstructed with a call
of 2s. per share. The new co. is to be registered in Wes-
tralia to dodge the excessive fees charged in London—
another instance of how the Socialists in the House of
Lords and other high places in Britain drive capital out
of that country. Shareholders are told that, on June 30
last, ore reserves were estimated at 42,629 tons, worth
39s. 6d. per ton ; but they are not told that since then
36,700 tons have been treated which were worth 23s.
only, and that there has been a net loss of £3100, or
Is. 8d. a ton, exclusive of depreciation, directors’fees,
&c. Hopes are still held out of treating the 300,000 tons
of accumulated tailings, which have hitherto defied all
the experts, owing to the presence of copper. The pro-
spects are poor, as only the shallow levels have been so
far worked, and the sulphide zone is likely to be still more
refractory, as is the case at the Lancefield.,
* * * *
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) is now controlled
by manager Wm. Duncan, previously employed on the
Ivanhoe and other mines as engineer. He found the
equipment so bad that he closed down the mill to get
things shipshape. Whether he can ever get the rattle-
trap fixings in workable order is questionable, as the
cheeseparing policy of the Brisbane directors makes it
practically impossible for any manager to put in good
work.
* » * ' *
Whitford’s Reward (W.A.) seems to have a
good thing in its option of the Callion, near Davyhurst.
This property was acquired on six months’ option, which
expires next month. A new main shaft was started, and
sunk to a depth of 130ft. or so, where the ground became
so hard that manager Hambley advised a halt, as it would
he much cheaper to sink with rock-drills. Meantime a
winze is being sunk on the reef below the 130ft. level, and
is in good-grade ore. The drive at 130ft. has opened up a
good shoot, patches of which assay up to nearly 7 6oz. per
ton. The Oallion was long held by 7 a London co., but did
not pay on ore yielding about 20dwt., and was aban-
doned. As things are now worked, it should pay hand-
somely.
* * » *
Bayle.y’s Reward, Coolgardie (W.A.), is being
advertised for sale by the mortgagees in possession, ana
seems likely to go for an old song, as shareholders are
sick of emptying their pockets into it. The co. hoicb
about a mile of country, and for years has acted the aog
in the manger. About two years ago tributes nere


ABSOLUTE SECURITY
for Trust Management
can only lie obtained
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents, (Sic.
2, 4* & O Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manaa'ert
advertised, and four parties started work. Because one
it the four happened to “ strike it rich,” none of the
tributes was renewed, and the foreseen has happened.
Bayley’s is either a feast or a famine ; and, had it not
been for the judicious management (or manipulation, or
whatever you like) of manager Begelhole in fixing the
weekly output at 700 oz. in the early days, the collapse
would have been as sudden and sensational as that of the
Londonderry. Whenever the ground is open, hundreds
of working men will tackle it, and probably some sensa-
tional finds will be made.
# * It #
Princess Royal, Norseman (W.A.), is looking
sick, and manager Henderson has been reducing hands,
as funds are low. Like all quartz reefs in W.A., the
Princess Royal appears to carry all the gold near the
surface, and deep sinking is fatal. The recent failure of
the Mararoa at 340 ft. confirms this. The manager has
long been doubtful of the Royal reef, and some two
months ago reckoned that six months would settle the
matter, and it looks very much as if his gloomy predic-
tions would be verified. * Henderson is one of the most
energetic mine managers in W.A., and one of the most
sanguine, and does not say die before it is time. When
in charge of the Queen Margaret he put in the longest
crosscut in blank country in W.A. —1300 ft. of it.
It looks as though, over Barrambie (W.A.),
they are aiming at what they call a diversion. On the
strength of being boomed as a 3oz. show, shares were
rushed up till in November they sold at 475. 6d. When a
second crushing gave 14dwt. they steadied to 13s.
Manager Aldridge was posted off back to the mine from
Melbourne to support his estimates. Now, along with
news that the manager re-values the ore in sight at 2oz.
7dwt. 13gr. per ton, there comes word to the Exchanges
that “gold-stealing is rampant; expect arrests Wednes-
day or Thursday.” For the credit of Australian miners
there is too much gold-stealing ; only the very few steal,
but a far greater number don’t reckon that they are
interested when they see it going on around them. For
all that, it would be asking the public to swallow a large
whale if it is suggested that gold-stealing brought down
the average of a crushing from 3oz. to 14dwt. A3oz.
show was a good deal to swallow in the first place ; it has
got down to 2oz. 7dwt. now ; and there is probably room
for another step or two towards the even ounce.
•M- % * «t
Adelaide was full of rumors lately concerning
the probable purchase by a London crowd of the Wallaroo
and Moonta properties (S. A.). The thing was whispered
quietly for over a week : then the chairman of directors
was asked to say something definite. All he did say was
that negotiations were being conducted, but no offer had
up to then been made. Price of copper has made the
recent purchase of Oobar a successful deal for the buyers,
and somebody evidently wants to do the same with
Wallaroo and Moonta. Directors will not, however,
consider any offer until a substantial deposit—no less
than £40,000 has been mentioned—is put up, and
this deposit is not in sight yet. It may or may not
announce itself presently : meanwhile, buyers had better
carefully consider whether Wallaroo and Moontas are
worth £7 10s. or anything like it, supposing the deal
does not come off. On that point something was said
here a fortnight ago.
Everything else will no doubt go down before a
good cash offer ; but until it arrives there are big holders
who will hang on to the Wallaroo and Moonta with more
affection than a man usually feels for a mine. J. J. Dun-
can, who is still a director and a big holder, reported the
discovery of Wallaroo to his W. W. Hughes ; and
the Stirlings (still represented on the Board) were in it
from the beginning. Secretary David Davidson has been
connected with the mines for 40 years, and general
manager Hancock succeeded his father, who had been
general manager almost from the beginning. In recent
years there has been some change, but the mines still
hang on in many respects to their old-fashioned ways;
every boss is still more or less respectfully addressed as
“ Cap’n,” and all mine measurements are by the fathom.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Copper Cos., the name under
which J. Bull tackled a tough proposition at North Dun-
das (Tas.), is now giving most of its attention to the Far
North of S. Aus., where General Manager Henrie, from
America, has for some time had his quarters. They
started with the old Blinman, and now have 35 claims or
more, including the Sliding Rock and others that were
boomed 30 years ago. Smelters are running at Blinman,
and another nest is going up at the Mountain of Light.
At Blinman, where they handle a good deal of purchased
ore, brought in by camel, donkey, and horse teams, about
2000 tons a month go through, and about 230 tons
of matte (55 per cent, and over) go to Wallaroo.
The Mountain of Light is a very big low-grade
show, but there are sulphides in the bottom, whose
value has not yet been settled. Blinman has, it
is estimated, four years’ ore in sight, of an average of
about 5 per cent.; in the old days, when something over
£250,000 worth of metal was got out, 16 per cent, was
reckoned about good enough. The co. has acquired
rights in Leigh’s Oreek coal mine, on the same line ; and,
though the coal is too “young” for general purposes,
Manager Henrie expects it to be a great help in smelting
and power-raising.
* * * »
The Mutooroo Copper Corporation, which took
over a group of claims in north-east S. Australia, aban-
doned 12 or 15 years ago, reports that it hasn’t made the
progress it expected, owing to the scarcity of miners—
which isn’t surprising, seeing that the mine is miles from
everywhere. Its latest move is amalgamation with the
Mutooroo North Go., which it pays with 10,000 paid
shares. But the most interesting feature of the business
is that, in order to provide these shares, it has
got the shareholders to agree to reconstruction,
in a co. of 135,000 shares, on condition that
“ the directors shall not be bound to offer the
new shares, or. any ‘of them, to the members of the
co.” This is to dodge the possible Australian adoption of
a recent decision of the United States’ Supreme Court,
which was to the effect that if a co. made anew issue of
shares the directors were bound to offer them in the first
place to existing shareholders. To get a market made for
their shares, many Boards are anxious to pass blocks of
shares on almost any terms to big stock-dealing
“ groups ”; hence the brand-new provision adopted
by the Mutooroo Cos.
* * * *
The first of the magnetic machines, designed to
pull the Zinc Corporation out of its quagmire of diffi-
culties, is running on trial in the building erected for it
on the British Broken Hill mine. Up to the present the
machine is being spoon-fed, as it were, and it will be a
month or two before the value of the work can be rightly
estimated. The new machine is circular in design, and
revolves on a vertical axis—altogether different from the
barrel-organ-looking thing which had champagne spilled
Over it at the Junction North, a couple of years ago.
* » * *
The mill that was built a while ago at the
Junction North, Broken Hill, has been thrown out on
its ear, if it has one, and its bones now rattle on the scrap-
heap. The old shaking-screen was certainly a good thing
to get rid of, as when in action it caused as much dis-
turbance in the neighborhood as a traction engine
bolting down hill. The alterations may be for the
better—time will decide that—but the cost of them won’t
make pleasant reading in the half-yearly balance-sheet.
And the fact that the comparatively new manager finds
it necessary to scrap the work of the old manager, suggests
once more the difficulties in the way of treating this
mine’s ore. The man who put up that mill is reckoned a
first-rate mill man (he is getting fine results now at the
North) ; and if he failed at the Junction North it isn’t too
certain that the new man, with half the other’s experi-
ence, will succeed. If he does, more credit to him ! As
for the mine, the levels are looking better, but an attempt
to open out wider on the ore bodies has not met with
success. The hanging-wall stuff is poor, and there doesn’t
seem to be anything behind it. The ore shoots have been
lengthened somewhat by the development work, and in
places the grade has improved. But, on the whole,
the mine is very much as it was before the fire, and
before this extra work was done. The central mullock
pass from the surface, which is nearing completion, will
be a decided advantage.
The Junction North output for six weeks to the
end of March was 4278 tons, worth £10,378 ; and mining
and milling costs were £7872, showing a profit of £2506,
out of which depreciation and development costs have
to be paid. Mining and milling costs thus ran to £1
17s. per ton, as against an average of about 16s.
at the South and 16s. 6d. at the North. _ (This
does not include development or depreciation in any
case.) The costs, no doubt, will be reduced ; there is
plenty of room for it. Moreover, though the costs
were so high the recoveries were comparatively poor—62
per cent, of the lead and 43’8 per cent, of the silver, as
against 76'JL per cent, of the lead and 54’87 per cent, of the
silver at the North last half-year. Further, though the
profit shown above is small, it is arrived at on the basis of
lead at £l9 10s. per ton and silver at 2s. 9d. per oz. Opti-
mism with regard to the Junction North must be based
therefore on hopes : it can’t be based on results so far.
4 4 • w
British Broken Hill directors cable that the
profit for the half-year to the end of December was
£42,682. There are 300,000 shares, 240,000 paid to 20s.
and 60,000 paid to Bs., so the profit was at the rate of
ss. Bd. per share per annum. The last div., paid in
December, was 2s. 6d. ; and 3s. will be paid in May. The
developments have not come up to the expectations
formed six months ago, but the area is large and
possibilities still great.
* * • •
When the boundary line between the British
and the Junction, Broken Hill, was laid down, it passed
lengthwise along an ore body which is evidently consider-
ably tumbled. This stretch of country lies between
King’s shaft (now hired by the British) and Browne’s, on
the east side. The lode is sometimes in the British and
sometimes in the Junction. The Junction manager is
betting it comes into his mine at depth, and is already
starting after it on the 600 ft. level.
« • • *
The chief product of the New Australian
Broken Hill Consols so far is water. This is at present
being disposed of to the South Blocks at a profit, and
both parties wear a satisfied smile. A.B.H. Consols’
official reports make veiled allusions to a lode at the 300 ft.
level, but all that has been seen of it wouldn’t compare
well with stuff that the B.H. Proprietary sometimes uses
to metal its private roads with. A one-jig mill has put
through some cubical galena found at the upper level,
associated with carbonates, but that is all. The Consols’
original claim, out of which some remarkable slugs of
nearly pure silver were dug, has been practically given up
as a bad job.
• • • *
“ Potch ” : Another little attempt is being
made to boom the Lightning Ridge (N.S. W.) opal field ;
and a Walgett print says a recent par. stating the true
position is “ stinking fish.” It says that on the strength
of the small success of one bombastic miner. But fully
60 per cent, of the men who come here never make a
bob; about 30 make poor tucker, and 15 fair
wages; the balance strike from £SO up to £SOO.
One, perhaps two, have done better than that.
The field is principally kept going by the constant
arrival of full-fledged “gulls.” They remain until they
moult. Some waddle away, for they have not a feather
left to fly with. As an instance of Ridge “ prosperity ”:
A rush set in to a certain spot; in a short time £SOO
worth of work was done. At the end of 11 weeks the
lucky prospectors chipped up, and sold for £6. Dividend,
£3 each for 11 weeks’ toil. When the desire to be in close
to this “good thing” causes a rush, what price
prosperity!
• • • •
The new Blayney Cos. (N.S.W.), which isn’t
making the progress expected, nevertheless gets a fur-
nace ready to handle the outside ore which is being
pressed on it, mostlv in small quantities.
• ' * * •
It is a popular idea that the copper produced
by Gt. Oobar (N.S.W.) contains a very large quantity of
gold. “ The syndicate ” never published figures, but the
new co.’s smelter returns tell the truth. And it hardly
sustains the popular idea. For four weeks, the furnaces
produced 390 tons copper, 1200 oz. gold, and 63000 z.
silver from 13,450 tons crude ore. The average for
copper touched on 3 per cent., and the gold and silver
were worth Bs. 6d. per ton of ore. Furnace concentration
of between 30 and 40 tons of ore and metalliferous fluxes
bring the gold and silver value to approximately £l4 6s.
2d. per ton of copper. At present prices, the copper is
worth from six to seven times as much as the gold
and silver associated with it. Compare this with
the latest return from Mt. Morgan : 350 tons of copper
contained 45000 z. gold, or over £52 per ton of copper. Mt.
Lyell blister copper also contains more gold and silver than
Great Cobar ; but Mt. Lyell’s ore is poorer, and the
furnace concentration is nearly 40 tons of ore to one of
copper. Against the value of precious metals has to be
reckoned the cost of separating and refining them. Great
Cobar pyritic ore is exceptionally rich in sulphur ; if it
were landed in some parts of the world the brimstone
would be considered more valuable than the gold. The
sulphur and iron blend admirably with the silicious ore
from the Ohesney, and the big mine requires a large
supply of silicious copper ore if it is going to increase
production so much.
• * * *
The new smelting co. at Newcastle seems to be
a hustler. It has started on its works already.
•* * * «
The Blue Tier tin show (Tas.) is said, “in well-
informed circles,” to be very much like a blue duck.
Bowes Kelly, Jamieson and Mellor, of Mt. Lyell Cos.,
which has the claim under option, simply won’t talk over
the result of the prospecting done at the new claim.
Hence the north-east coaster wants to know whether
another North Lyell “freezing out” is in progress,
or whether the Lyell Board really intends to let
go its hold on the district. Frank Gee Duff made a
fundamental error when, in carrying through the
deal for the Blue Tier folk, he did not stipulate for a
report as to the results of prospecting. Mt. Lyell people
let it be understood that they required to prove 5,000,000
tons of tin ore. As they had the top of the mountains to
range over, with Luke Williams to put them on to all
the tin in the leases which he pegged out round the Blue
Tier group, this promised to be an easy task. Yet pos-
sibly the tale of the Anchor mine, near by, is being re-
peated. There Lewis has to get costs down to 2s. a ton
to do a fraction more than meet exes. There, too, the
diamond drill, just as at the Bischoff, never helped worth
a cent to prove or disprove the value of the
stone. The tin runs in such small shoots, or is distri-
buted in such quantities through the granite formation,
that no reliance can be placed on bores. It must be bulk
work. Therefore the diamond-drill results of the Lyell
Cos. are not comparable with trenching work, and whether
good or bad they may help the co. very little, for every-
thing may be upset in actual crushing. There isn’t
anything more difficult to estimate than a vast tin-bearing
formation like the Blue Tier, and it can safely be said that
those who have the experience don’t think that the ten
or twenty thousand which the Lyell co. has spent is worth
much unless supplemented by big battery work.
The Zeehan Western, Zeehan (Tas.), is asking
the Government for £6OOO to help the co. sink to 1000 ft.
in order to find out whether the silver-lead lodes make
again at a depth. This mine (formerly the Western) paid
the old shareholders well, but closed down when the lodes
pinched out at 350 ft., and the mine soon become filled
with water. The Montana, adjoining, had worked up to
within 60ft. of the Western boundary, and the co. was
forced to do something to prevent a possible flooding.
The Montana directors, acting on the advice of the
manager, decided to take over the Western, and float it
into a £25,000 co. Since then the co. has deepened the
shaft to 800 ft., and driven some thousands of feet, for no
return, though £17,000 of shareholders’ cash, besides about
£50,000 produced by tributors, has gone in exploring.
report of the Government Geologist is satisfactory, the
thing' will no doubt go through.
* * * •
Five hundred able-bodied men were whipped
up to squeeze the Bent Cabinet into doing more for the
Victorian coal mining industry than the State has done
heretofore. Dour David Syme shook off his isolation,
and personally pressed home the arguments which
have been used by the Age leader writers. Looked
at on its merits, the Victorian coal industry suffers
from adverse natural conditions. No Ministry can
afford to neglect that consideration. The seams
are narrow, and the faulting so extreme as to
obviate any chance of making the State railway service
completely independent of supplies from N.S. Wales.
But it has been established that the presence of Victorian
coal does impose a check on the extortion of the New-
castle coal ring. And it has also been equally established
that the dividends earned by the Outtrim mines in the
past have, in the main, come from State concessions,
either in the matter of railway freight or the high
price paid for coal by the Railway Department.
So the State has fed the coal cos. almost from the day of
their conception, and the general body of taxpayers can
see no reason why the spoon-feeding should go on to the
same extent unless they can come in for a bit of the pap.
When coal has been jumped up in N.S. Wales, or a strike
has happened there, not a Victorian coal owner said—
“ Well, we are doing well out of the people already, so we
won’t put up prices.” Instead of that, the community has
always been bled on the usual trading lines. Nor has there
been a kindly feeling for the worker. It is hard to see
why mines should be kept open by State aid simply to let
a policy of blood and iron rule. If more is to be given to
keep them alive, the best thing to do is to take them
over at the market valuations, and work them for the
people. This would be a cheap job, for coal shares to-day
are pretty well unsaleable.
* • * *
“Bill” Bentley, having had a spell from the
gad and the moil, is returning to the paths of mine
management which he trod for so many years on the
Moon line, Bendigo. “ Bill ” seemed to have had a lot of
luck or a lot of judgment in timing his retirement from
active service, as he foretold, with a lot more accuracy
than the Italian astronomer, the advent of the comet
that blotted out the Bendigo market. Away from the
. Beehive, he will be able to engage in anew computation
as to when the sun will again rise in Bendigo, and, with
his experience, he should be worth following. His
present adventure is to lift the Specimen Hill
mine to its old altitude. He has written a little
report on the show already—and not too sweet a
report either. Dead work ahead is the key note, and as
yields are back to the level of 540 z. from 207 tons, and
440 z. from 117 tons, skilful financing will be needed.
When the New Argus was opening up ounce stuff almost
on the boundary, Specimen Hill failed to see more than
colors ; but when New Argus was petering out, Specimen
Hill looked up. Shares were, however, rushed to a point
unjustified by development or by stone in sight. Taken
generally, the results at 1700 ft. in both mines add another
bit to the testimony that shoots at depth in Bendigo
don’t vie with the riches got nearer the surface. It was
his neglect of the teachings of experience in this direction
that led geologist Dunn into coining that neat but illu-
sive phrase concerning “illimitable Bendigo,” which
helped last year’s little Bendigo boom.
* * * *
A mine without a bottom will be cold comfort
to shareholders 'in the much-boomed New Rice’s
Freehold (Vic.); and the revelation cannot be long
delayed. There is strong reason for believing
that the holes put along the alleged course of
the lode, said to have been proved for 200 ft., will
all drop into old workings, and the men engaged in
sinking the shaft are taking big chances of a hurried
descent. The scrippers’ only hope seems to be that the
lode dips north of the' old workings, and, just
now, this has not been revealed. Meanwhile the
prospectors stand on velvet. They got £2300 cash,
a promise of £3OOO from first gold won, and
4000 paid-up shares. In addition, they have two
seats on the directorate, and the other seats are mostly
occupied by boomsters. Some of the big outsiders, who
took up 1000 shares each at 4s. on the strength of crush-
ings that went 3oz. to the ton, are looking anything but
happy, and the blow that may fall any time is keeping
those who believe they are in the know in a state of un-
healthy anxiety. The funny thing is that at the start
the vendors and the purchasing syndicate seem to have
acted bona-fide and in ignorance of the history of the old
show.
• • * *
A correspondent who is interested in the matter
explains why the Mt. Shamrock, Delgilbo (Q.), is working
its big low to medium-grade body with only a poor 10-
head battery. For several years after the old flash in the
pan, a small syndicate just made wages by working the
low-grade breccia with primitive appliances. Then, about
nine months ago, the Mt. Shamrock Mines, Ltd., was
floated in Brisbane; but, though it had a nominal
capital of £24,000, only £3OOO was available as working
capital, and this was provided by the original syndicate.
The co. has done good work in putting up winding plant,
new boilers, large rock-crushers, and other machinery,
besides opening up a large body of trachyte, which yields
Joz. to the ton ; it has not touched the big low-grade
formation, as the 10-stamper battery has been fully
occupied on the richer trachyte ore. Last month, work-
ing only part time, 194 tons crushed returned £lll worth
of free gold and £286 worth of concentrates (assay value).
The tailings usually average about 4dwt. ; but these
have not yet been treated, as the cyanide plantis cleaning
up the sands and slimes from old dams filled by the
former syndicate with low-grade tailings. Proposals have
lately been made for a reconstruction of the co., or the
making of anew one ; and a good case can be made out
for it.
* * * *
Mt. Molloy copper co. was much tempted by an
offer of exceptionally cheap steel rails ; fortunately the
directors got engineer Frew, then in England, to inspect,
with the result that the offer was refused, and an order
placed elsewhere. Rails are to be delivered in London
some time in May; meantime, the energetic Australian
is expected to tackle stone-napping and the formation of
the line. That is his share, as usual—to shift dirt. The
money to build this and other Northern tram-lines and
railways is mostly put up by the Britisher, but in the
case of the Chillagoe-Etheridge line, every scrap of
partly worn-out material will have to be paid for by
Queensland in 15 years’ time. Borrowing money is bad,
but these time-bargains, to buy after a term of years, at
a price based on what the railways have earned while the
mining fields which they serve are in their prime, are
hopeless.
* * • *
Charters Towers is saying that if Pfeiffer’s Day
Dawn had got its crushing of slightly over £6 per ton 18
months since, shares would have boomed up to two or
three times their present figure. There is some heavy
mineral stone in the bottom, and Mills’ United has
brightened up in the hope of getting part of this shoot
of ore.
* * * *
Cloncurry has a custom smelter now—Aldis’s—
but it will only serve the George section, and there isn’t
too much sulphide thereabout. Apparently the minimum-
value ordinary stuff that Aldis will buy is 10 per cent.
• * * *
E. M. Smith didn’t live to see the realisation of
his dreams of a great iron industry in Taranaki (M.L.)
killed by accident last week, he didn’t long survive
A. J. Oadman, his most consistent co-barracker. The
business seems to have no luck. Years ago the N.Z.
Iron and Steel Cos. was formed, and made a start at
Onehunga, but collapsed, having miscalculated the out-
lay. In 1898 the scheme was so far resurrected
that the promoters induced the Esteve Steel Cos. (Eng.)-
to experiment with a bulk parcel of the sands ; and it
reported the production of high-class tool steel. Upon
that Cadman and Smith projected a £200,000 co., and got-
the Government to promise a bonus of £1 per ton on the
first 20,000 tons of marketable iron or steel produced ;
but the co. did not materalise. The two stickers were,
however, not dead yet; and the next outcome of the bright
picture they painted was the putting up of a deposit of
£IOOO as a guarantee that the terms of a special
lease granted at Parapara would be carried out. At-
latest the Public Trustee held the £IOOO, the time for
carrying out the terms was fast drawing to an end, and
the prospects of getting the necessary funds were not-
good. But E. M. Smith at least did all that one man
could do. He didn’t have the money, but he had the
faith that can move mountains, yet can’t always shift
such a little thing as another man’s bank deposit.
* * * *
Kurri Kurri : No good suggesting day work to
the coal-miner ; and the cure would, anyway, probably
be worse than the disease.... Esperanza : Scrip worth
Papuan Industries, Ltd., which mixes divinity
and dividends, is still at work supplying the benighted
heathen of those parts with religion and work. Its
organisers still run the missionary timber mill, and cut
wood for local sale. Apparently the natives have vague
ideas regarding boilers, and it is stated that a few rivets
were recently blown out of one. Fortunately none of the
“ converted ” heathen were blown out, too, but it was a
close call. The concern also does a bit of trading with
natives at Badu, where the “ station ” is being formed.
One of them, Who had a notion about prices, lately com-
plained, truthfully or otherwise, that the station had
charged 15s. for a 501 b. bag of flour, and 18s. for a 50'lb.
bag of rice—about 100 per cent, more than Thursday
Island prices. If Papuan Industries, Ltd., spreads the
blessings of Christianity on that scale, it ought to lay up
some treasure for the moth.
* ■* * »
The copper boom still continues. According
to Melbourne police reports, over 100 copper boilers and
tanks have been stolen in that city during the last six
months.
• a * •
Perth Gas Co.’s interests have been upset by
the City Council submitting to the ratepayers a scheme
for a municipal electric-lighting service. The co.’s
profits have been so bloated that some movement of the
sort was inevitable ; so Perth holders have been busy for
a couple of years past handing the baby on to buyers in
the eastern capitals.
• a a *
The Tyree spray, which during the past few
months has been turned to many effective uses, has now
been successfully applied to keep down drill dust in
mines. To this matter the N.S.W. Mines Department
has turned its attention, and mine-owners will now have
to adopt either the Tyree spray or some other.
a * * *
Another Broken Hill begins to figure in the
London market—a copper, silver-lead, and zinc district,
in Central Africa, the present extremity of the railway
from the south. The cos. at work include the Broken
Hill Development Cos. (issued capital £500,000), Northern
Copper Cos., Kafule Copper Cos., and others with heavy
capitalisation, and they talk of ore by the million tons.
In one of the properties of the Rhodesia Broken Hill “ it
is estimated that nearly 1,000,000 tons of zinc and lead
ore will be obtained above water level,” of an average
value of 25 per cent, zinc and 2J per cent. lead. Work
has started at this mine with 12 roasting furnaces.
• * » *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. and J. Lampriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert and Cos., of London, the largest firm in the
world for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
• * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Cos.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
Two patent portable traction scoop engines
are being built to the order of Messrs. McLelland and
Cooper for cutting the main irrigation channels in the
Waranga Basin District of Victoria. The engines will be
placed on opposite sides of the channels and will pull and
tip the scoops in their own direction, and so make the
channel and form the embankment. There are two
engines of the vertical compound type, and, along with
winding drums, friction clutches, worm gearing, and
other appliances, are mounted on a mild steel framework
carriage which projects above and forward over a portion
of the locomotive boiler. The boiler is mounted on
driving and steering wheels. The main haulage engine
is 160 I.H.P. and the smaller one 35 I.H.P. The Austral
Otis Engineering Company Ltd., South Melbourne, are
the manufacturers.* [*>•]
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman (Liverpool), in its
issue of Ist September, wrote “ Quietly, unobtrusively,
but none the less surely, The Colonial Mutual Life Office
is becoming a most important factor in the insurance
world. To have accumulated close upon £3,000,000 in 32
years is in itself a performance unique in the history of
British ordinary life offices, and this achievement is but
one among many of the accomplishments of the society."*
f * *• *
Cobar.—For reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar.
Est.. 1894. Member of the Oobar Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Cobar.—For information on all mining matters,
apply to G. Marshe. Member Cobar Stock Exchange.*
* * » *
D. H. Dunlop, Stock and Share Broker,
Cobar. Member of the Cobar Stock Exchange.*
X * * *
Budgery.—Write Gr. M. Field, Her midale. On
the field. Member Hermidale Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Connolly, Keam and Cos., 123 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
orflotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
* * * *
“Geo. E. Dickenson, 60 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne, Manager and Trustee is prepared to consider
offers, sale or purchase of approved Mining properties
under working option or cash purchase.”
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price. Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Cos., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne.* , * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Cos., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» » * *
The strength, lightness, durability and low cost
of spiral rivited pipe have given it a place of superiority
above any other pipe. This pipe possesses enormous
bursting strength, and is protected, inside and out, with a
perfect coating manufactured from asphalt. Asphalt
coated steel pipes have lasted from 25 to 40 years without
any sign of decay, and may last as long again. Spiral
pipe is manufactured by Mephan Ferguson, at Wanganui,
New Zealand, and at his engineering and pipe works,
Melbourne, where the latest up-to-date machinery is also
used for making boilers, fluming, refrigerators, bolts, nuts,
and every discriution of cast or wrought iron work.*
-*■***
Golden Bendigo.—The safest and best field foi
investment, fullest information gladly given. Geo. A.
Miller, Beehive, Bendigo (Member of Bendigo Stock
Exchange).*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
Great Cobar Ltd., after extensive enquiries in
England and America, have ordered six large Babcock
and Wilcox Boilers and Accessories, thus confirming the
opinions of the leading mining engineers of Australia,
regarding the superiority of this boiler where fuel is ex-
pensive. Other recent orders include two boilers for
Nvmagee Copper Ltd., and several for Broken Hill, where
there are now 58 Babcock and Wilcox boilers at work or
on order. Australian Office—Hayunarket, Sydney.*
Charters Towers.— Mining speculators would
do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member of the
Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest informa-
tion on the field.*
* * • *
Commonwealth and Foreign patents obtained.
'Collison & Cos., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne (and
Adelaide.) Twenty-six years practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, for the latest informa-
' ■■•'»» ■>»lhe field.


HALF*A«GUINEA for Nothing,
We are open to give to every Man, Woman and'
Child in Australasia,, anything that can be bought in
any shop in Sydney for half-a-guinea, at absolutely
NO COST to themselves.. This is in connection with
our great advertising scheme. Write for particulars
to HARDINC & BILLING, Post Card Publishers, 250
Pitt Street, Sydney. Nothing undignified is asked
of you. No harassing of your friends, you simply
show them also the way to get half-a-guinea’s worth
for nothing.
ANGLERS
Send
for oar
FISHING TACKLE CATALOGUE.
It will please you.
EAST WAY BROTHERS,
409 and 411 QEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
’S WHISKY
s Waver ley Brewery, Agents.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE MAN WHO KNEW.
THE OLD MAN: “ Going down to Melbourne, are
yer? Then, for Gord’s sake, carry yer money
in yer boots. I’m ’fraid for yer."
Some weeks ago an Illowa (Vic.) farmer
misled one of his cows, and after a week’s search,
gave" her up as lost. Two , days later, however,
she .reappeared,, having eaten her way out of a
haystack that had fallen on her. The bull’s
mothpr is a tough animal, though she makes no
great boast about her capacity for endurance.
“T.0.M.” : Talking of bush hayremindsme
°f M‘Farland, who owned Nap Nap on the ’Bidgee
(N.S.W.) many years ago. There wasa bendalong
the stream, six mjles from ,the homestead, and,
observing the, splendid grass, M'Farland sent
some men to run a temporary fence across the
P en i nsiJ la, in order to preserve the
bit o hay for the station pets. Well, a certain
selector spotted it, and hanged if he didn’t mow
it and send it down on one of the boats to
iialranald, where later on he got £22 a ton for it.
* • * *
“Gip ” : The lyre bird (I mention him in
fear and trembling) is not the only imitator in the
bush. Loafing, the other day, under a low-
growing gum, I listened sleepily to some rosella
and king parrots warbling meditative, piccolo-like
music overhead. A mag down in the gully sang
a fragment of glad song, and almost immediately
one of the glowing-breasted fellows in the gum
gave an excellent imitation. And talking of
parrots makes me want to work in this true story,
it was a Sunday afternoon, at the home of a
oydney merchant, and a large party, including a
certain Jaynial absentee Orator, fanned themselve.s
on the verandah. In the corner Jack, the grey
P jj rot ’ P reened himself sulkily. The Jaynial
.addressed him in hilarious Irish: “ Helloah,
Jack, and how is your health this foine day,
t • dac h stopped preening and regarded
the Jaynials whiskers boredly, and, after a
minutes deep thought, remarked in shocked
tones, ‘Dear, oh dear! drunk again!” A
wicked young daughter of the house, had spent
laborious days teaching the clever scamp to say it.
* * * •
“Werrimee”: -Be snakes. “ The Proo-
shan ” says (B. 4/4/’O7)
X recently discovered 18 young tiger snakes nested in
some stones at Batlow (N.S.W.). The snake’s egg-clutch
ranges up to over 30. I once took 36 young live black
snakes out of their sable mother at Middle Adelong ;
they race indoors on the approach of danger.
The tiger snake, also called the brown-banded
snake \(Hoplocephalus curtus), does not lay eggs.
.Nearly all Australian venomous snakes are vivi-
parous. . Two exceptions are the brown snake
(Diemenia superciliosa) and the whip snake (I),
reticulata,). Neither does the black snake swallow
its young. That is an old fable, which arose, per-
haps, from the fact of active young snakes (just
before birth) being found in the females. They
ir 6 </ n a bout Christmas time, and number from
15 to 30. I have encountered some hundreds of
black snakes, not to mention others, and never
saw one going about with a brood like a hen with
a clutch of chickens. The young ones are always
ioraging on their own hook, having no more con-
venient mouth to dive into when the “ Prooshan ”
approaches than a hole in the ground. , Consider
the position of the oviparous snakes, as the
Diemenia. The eggs are left to hatch by the
SU «: and kb o little wrigglers emerge with
sufficient instinct to know what to do next. The
pythons (as the carpet and diamond), which are
innocuous, incubate their eggs, I can’t say what
happens immediately after the young leave the
shell; but I have never seen a little one in com-
pany with a big one, I have witnessed them
love-making, and mating (they twist together, like
a rope), and I have often found Morelia variegata
coiled round the pyramid of eggs, but regret I
did not investigate further to ascertain if the
male shared the duty of incubating with the
female. I think he does. He certainly sticks to
her vicinity much more than any other snake that
1 m acquainted with.
“DavidH.Richards”: Regarding “F.B.’s”
anxiety to be initiated into the process of
succumbing’ to snakebite (B. 14/3/’O7), I have
never died from that' cause, ’but once
watched a she-canine who did. The opera-
tion occupied her about an hour and a-half.
A party of us were engaged in the fishy
pastime, when a young lady dog, owned by
°J ie cr °wd, gave a series of short,
sharp yells, and fled towards us with her
caudal ornament between her walking ap-
paratus. Looking round we saw a large
brown snake making off up the bank. The
bitten animal stretched herself near us on
the grass, and before many minutes became
comatose—hardly giving any signs of life.
After about a quarter of an hour she came
to, and immediately commenced to howl dis-
mally, as if the spectre of Dissolution were
confronting her. She continued to rend the
placidity of the sylvan scene with howls
and yells for some half-hour or more. Then
she again became semi-comatose, with
violent nerve or muscle twitching. This
lasted for about 20 m'inutes. After that she
gave a long, mournful howl, and departed
to a brighter and a better kennel. 1 saw
another dog die from death-adder bite. He
perished in about 20 minutes with scarcely
any signs save muscle twitching; but he
gave a valedictory howl. Nearly all dogs do
that from whatever cause they die. Thev
seem to divine that they are about to be-
C 'i° m ? “Dng dogs with a halo on the coast of
the Jasper Sea. From all I can -learn, no
human beings ever recite Shakspeare when
dying from serpent attack, but just die
modestly. I don’t know if they howl or not'.
* * * „
. A recent product of Australian inven-
tiveness is the fire-plough,” devised by C. P.
■ manager of Westland station, near Longreach
■*- t Wlll cu t a furrow up to lift, wide—enough
•to keep back a fire except in heavily-grassed
country. Its utility was demonstrated at West-
land during the bush-fires which occurred there
last summer.
* • * .* •'
“ Ess Be cutting neck or bottom off 9,
bottle. The process is simple. Soak a piece of
twine in kerosene, and tie it round the -bottle
where the cut is required; then burn the. twine
off, and plunge the bottle immediately after-
wards into cold water.
THE SPREAD OF JU-JITSU.
“N-N-Now look 'ere, ye blaggard,
if y’ don’t le’ me go I'll jujits y’
f’r oertainsh.”
“The Prooshan ” : Cows are a nuisance
to miners, especially when race-cutting. On re-
tiring towards the tucker bag (mostly suspended
from a wattle tree in the hope of beating the little
stinker ants) to “bile the billy,” a man finds
about thirteen cavorting kine', including impudent
steers, perky heifers, a black-polled Angus dame
very like Greorge Reid of countenance, and a
snaily-horned old gate-opener, all contesting for
the last crumb. The “Red Page” wrapper is
impaled on the horns of a dilemma, or rather a
red steer, and in all probability the two senior
■counsel are tugging at the sleeves of the digger’s
Crimean shirt like legal pros and cons in a will
case. The digger’s wrath goeth before him in a
hot wind of oaths ; and sticks, stones, and other
:fraginents of hate are hurled about wildly on
getting the range ; Rut those cattle cock the tails
of derision and float out over the horizon with his
bit of sustenance without losing a gun, A friend
of mine lost £45 in notes once owing to the
avaricious appetite of a brindle cow that swallowed
his digger’s shirt wherein the-quids reposed. The
bereft'talked law, but the owner said, “Prove it.”
“Jay” : In “ Aboriginalities ” (B. 14/3/’O7)
“ Quidam.” states tl rt snakes always imbibe
frogs feet first when making
their dinner. He is not alto-
gether right, though per-
haps generally so. I have
not seen many snakes
•having dinner. Was
standing at the edge
of a big swamp one
day admiring the
■sunset reflected in
the mud, when I
saw a curious
movement in the
reeds near the
water’s edge. I
found that the
cause of the
turbance was the
hinder part of a
frog. The rest of
him was well on
the way 'down a
black snake’s
throat, and froggy
was making a
frantic endeavor
to swim out. If
he croaked or
.yelled I could not
hear it; as he was
going in. head
first, he was
■heavily handi-
capped. Having a brush-hook handy, I killed
the snake, and froggy got away, but he was
too badly mauled to resume the responsibilities
of life. He only jumped a few jumps, and then
gave up the ghost. I believe it is not usual
for a snake to poison his food, but he may have
done it out of cussed ness when I cut him in two
with the hook. Half a snake is very malevolent.
* * » *
“ Deut ” : “ Spring’s ” par. re jibbing
horse reminds me of a holiday I once had. Four
other noblemen and myself (I am a duke) hired a
horse and trap from a livery stable in Bathurst.
It was a splendid horse, so we were told (but that
.ho jibbed at hills we were not told). Anyhow,
the climax came m crossing a river. Bucephalus
stopped in the middle, and refused to go. We
tossed to see who would give him a start, but
though the loser got out and dragged all he knew,
we still had a motionless horse on our hands. We
tried everything except lighting a fire under him.
In the end we took him out and pulled the trap
.out of the river. Then we put him in the trap
again, but still he refused. We received much
sympathy and plenty of advice from a picnic
party on the bank, but there was no diminution
m the stationariness of that horse. Finally a
Chow came along, “Whalla malla with horse,
no go. I show you,” said Confucius. He got
the depraved beast by the ear and wrung it a
treat. Bucephalus made a start in dead earnest.
He tried jibbing at several hills going home, but
there was a scramble for an ear to wring by five
wild peers, and he went again. I guess that horse
got the lesson of his life.
“David H. Richards ” : The man who
usually says “Whoa !” to the plough equine by
the radiance of the evening planet, in a vain
endeavor to grow sufficient sustenance, has no
need to remark anything but his devotions by the
luminosity of the night star this season. Almost
everywhere in the Beyond there is such a bounti-
ful plenitude of grass and herbage as has not been
seen for a year, and the carrying capacity of the
land looks grotesque in figures by the side of
drought statistics. Any number of small western
N.'S.W. holders are running a sheep to the acre,
and many of them more. I know a place pear
Walgett where there have been 2600 sheep on
2700 acres for the past four months or so, and
even now it is almost impossible to tell where
they have been feeding, so quickly does the grass
grow. It is mostly blue grass and Mitchell, with
spear grass, and such good herbage as sarsaparilla
runner, “ tar vine,” “ Paddy’s lucerne,” etc. The
cookies think the millennium has occurred. Some
of the large soil-monopolists think that if jt
wasn’t for The Bulletin’s desecration of the con-
nubial tie and advocacy of a graduated earth-tax,
and the machinations of the horrible, vulgar
Labor party, the ewes would all be blessed with
twin lambs this year. The Bulletin and the
Labor party have a lot to answer for.
Lindy Lou ” : Ee “ Mario ” (B. 28/2/07)
and his pestiferous smelling vegetable. His
nomination is a foreigner, and therefore dis-
qualified. in the “Abo.” column, unless he is
mighty smart aboub getting out naturalisation
papers for it. I have smelt that bulb he men-
tions, likewise the Chinese hawthorn which
smells like its name. But no patriotic Aus-
tralian with a knowledge of his native fungi need
deal with these alien herbs. There is one
specimen, fairly common in the bush, which
grows up as a stalk about four inches high, and
one inch_ in diameter. Having attained the
height of its ambition, it splits at the top into five
sections, each of which leans backward, showing
a red centre, and giving the impression of a lovely
red star-flower without any leaves. This impres-
sion lasts long enough to draw you within three
feet. By that time you have smelt mad eggs and
dead rabbits, foxes, cows, and dingoes all round
you. Then you observe they are not bees, but
blowflies, that are assembled on the pretty flower,
and as they leave it in a swarm to buzz round you,
you depart. This breed of fungus is naturally
called the “ stinker.” It couldn’t reasonably be
called anything else.
* * » *
The only argument needed to convince you
of the value of Angier’s Emulsion for coughs and
lung affections is a trial. It is used by doctors
the world over. Send 4d. for postage to the
Angier Chemical Co., Ltd., 7 Barrack-street,
Sydney, for a free sample bottle and give it ft
trial.*
THE CITY COURT.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
' ® ear Bclleteen, —I read a parrygraft in the Melbourne
Erald about a bloke’s impressions uv the City Court.
One of the reeporters told me I could git a bob or two by
givin’ yer mine. It don’t seem a’onest way of earnin’ a
livin ; but any’ow, ’ere they are, in blanky verse :
Wot ? My impressions uv ther City Court
Lorbloomy, bloke, you put me in a 'aze.
I couldn’t swear exackly wot took place *
The night before ; I think I musta spoke
Outer me turn. Any’ow, there I was,
Me ’ead all wrapped in bandages, me ’eart
’Eavy as lead. A John read out the charge—
Drunk an’ disorderly, language, and resistin’.
(Gee-wizz 1 I must ’ave ’ad a rorty night!)
A. lawyer’s tout, with gra,vy on ’is vest,
(Them lawyers’ touts is mostly dirty eaters)
Starts signallin’ to me., I nods me ’ead
(At least, I nods.wot there was left uv it
After the baton done its deadly work).
The toqt ’eld up fiye fingers, \vich it meant
A fly,e-bob fee.providing I got off ;■
But if they sends me up, then he gets nix.
So there I was, defended.
Two big Johns,
With ’eads like pumpkins and with boots like ships,
. Got in the box, and pitched a lovely tale
Of ’ow I kicked and ’it and punched and swore
Till’arf the force eould/’ardly;!old me :downi
Gripes, youda thought me name Was ’Ackensohmidt!
And on. the Bench,, ble Pantog Uhtgfffed ’is ’ead,
An Cook an’.Cherry an’Lankyshyer, J.P.
(I’ye seen them old wax Aggers many a time !)
They looked at me as if I wuz a dorg
And said “ Hum ! Hum 1 ” like blanky Solomons.
And then me lawyer pitched ’is tale—by Gum,
lie-earned ’js dollar with the lies he told I
■He said I wuz a simple country chap
Who fell into temptation ; that I’d ’ad
A drink or two (and there he told the truth ;
, I’d ’ad fifteen at .least by ’arf-past-nine) ;
And if they’d let me off, I’d be all right,
Because I ’ad a lovin’ wife at ’ome.
(You bet I.’ad I I found that later on. '
I’d rather face the Court three times a day
Than face that same old woman once a week.)
Well, Panton looked at Cook, an’ Cook looked wise,
And worded Cherry an’Lankyshyer, J.P.
(An’ they was lookin’ blanky solemn still),
Till Panton says—Well, Sergeant, wot’s ’is record?”
The Sergeant grabs a paper like a kibe :
“ Six times fer petty lareency,” says he,
“ Twenty fer drunk, eleven fer resistin’
And once fer found by night without excuse.”
I just looks at me lawyer, and I winks
As if ter say, “ Wot price the country bloke ! ”
There wuz a ’orrid silence, w’ile the tout
Scratched gravy awf ’is weskoat with ’is nail,
And my young lawyer (who’d just finished breakfust)
Kept pickin’ at ’is back-teeth with ’is tongue.
Then Panton, Cook, an’ Cherry, an’ Lankyshyer
Put their bald ’eads together, wagged their jaws,
An’Panton says, “ Three months without the option.”
1 gives me lawyer just one witherin’ look
An’ strides like, Julius tfriight toward the cells . . .
By cripes, it’s time ole Partton wuz retired !
VIC.
BANAGER BILL.


woLrcs
SCHNAPPS.
A SENSIBLE STIMVLANT
SENTIMENT
enters largely into Brooch-giving.
A Charming Sentiment and old as
the hills—yet daily new—is ex-
pressed in. pur ..-latest Southern Cross
Brooch, the first letters of each
gem spelling the word DEAR.
Diamond, Emerald, Amethyst, Ruby,
get in fine gold, ljin, long, 70/-.
We also make Gem Name Brooches. We make
them hence, there arc no intermediate
profits to pay.
plai ca8h uro *' FAIRFAX & ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery House
in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ Werrimee ” : “ The Prooshan ” has got
his lizards a bit mixed. He says (B. 21/3/’07):
The large lace (Jew) lizard has a terrific aspect when,
with his great yellow mouth open, his body flattened as
big as a dinner-plate, and his frill out, he sits up on his
tail to face a terrier..
This is the stump lizard ( Trachysaurus rugosus),
which is about 15in. or ISin. long, and mostly
found on the ground, and on logs and stumps.
The Jew lizard (Grammatophora muricata) is
arboreal, 18in. to 20in. long. The lace lizard
(Varanus varius) is the much-talked-of long
iTpanna, which attains a length of 7ft. or Bft. long.
Vlvery “Abo.” reader should know that bush
scavenger by this time. The frilled lizard ( Chlamy-
dosaurus kingii) has a small body, long legs, and
a collar several inches wide. When erected, that
collar or frill is more than half of him.
“ Melb.” writes :
The Victorian Geographical Society conies out with a
creditable publication of lectures given before it in the
past few months. Dr. Watkin leads off with Historic
Spots Around Port Phillip Bay. Hobson’s Bay is named
after the captain of H.M.S. Rattlesnake, at'tenvards first
Maoriland Governor. Mount Hobson, near Auckland, is
named after the same man. The names of officers of the
Rattlesnake are found in Symond’s Channel, Pope’s Ej'e
Shoal, Point Richards, and Point Henry.
The earliest shipping disaster in Hobson’s Bay was
the stranding of the brig Britannia, at Red Bluff, be-
tween St. Kilda and Brighton. The ship Glen Huntly
arrived with typhus onboard, in 1840. Several victims
were buried at Red Bluff. Glen Huntly Road now' runs
from it. Captain Ormond, father of the founder of
Ormond College, commanded the Glen Huntly. Port
Phillip Bay was first called Port King, and the Heads the
Narrows.
Wedge, Batman’s surveyor, said that Buckley, the
Wild White Man, was transported, with other soldiers,
for having - conspired to shoot the Duke of Kent, at Gib-
raltar. Had they succeeded, there would have been no
Queen Victoria.
Batman’s Hill and Batman’s Swamp having been
abolished, the name is only found on a Spencer-street
hotel and one of the Harbor Trust’s barges, while a
plate has been affixed to the sumptuous new Mutual
Provident offices, corner of Collins and William streets,
stating that Batman’s first house was there. Fawkner’s
was on the corner of Collins and Market streets, where
the Union Club Hotel stands. On Batman’s monument,
in the Old Melbourne Cemetery, there is the word “ Cir-
cumspice.”
THE TEST OF MEDICINE.
STRINGY BARK : "Here, Mister , I want me money
back. Them, pills ain't no good. I took ten
of ’em, and they done me no harm in the
world.”
The nearer ope gets to . the irrigation
problem the bigger.it looms ;'and when'the irri-/
gable parts of this country get settled there\vil!
need to be a few Asso'uan dams, built. Mildura
irrigation colony, in 1889, soon alter it started,
took one-53,540th of the total -volume,of Murray
water that came its way'during the year. But
in 1902 it took just.one-45th, and by this time it
is probably using,one-40th. Agd Australia hasn’t
many Murrays,j ami' Mildura ~is only -one small
speck on the map.
CONSCIENTIOUS.
CASEY (the new hand, who
has been told to be up at
six o'clock): “ Sorry Oi am for
disturbin' yez, but O've called ter tell yet that it's a quarter to six. Will Oi get up note?"
“ Pompey ” : Can throw a couple of candle-
power of light on “Burn G.’s” query as to what
would happen if two snakes bit something at once.
I was watering a mob of calves one day when a
terrific bellow from a two-year-old bull-calf drew
my attention to a snake’s fangs buried in its nose.
We made -a lot of commotion, and started for the
yard, but they were a nasty lot, and it took some
time to get them under weigh. Crossing a sandy
patch, the same calf (somewhat stupefied, I sup-
pose) walked on
an adder. We
plainly saw the
head and tail of
the reptile meet
on the calf’s
belly. Knowing
that nothing
short of a miracle
could save the
calf, we took our
time, killed the
adder amid great
caution, and
didn’t have much
trouble in get-
ting the calf into
the yards. There
he immediately
lay down, and,
we thought, re-
tired from active
life. We gave
him a quarter of
-an hour, and had
begun to rip off
the hide when
the comet struck
us. The calf gave
a preliminary
sigh, and then
started his legs
revolving and
twisting, so fast
that he looked
like an enormous
fly wheel- at full
hum. Getting
up, he broke all
records of the
world round the
stockyard. It
was no use tak-
ing to the fences,
as he knocked
them from un-
derneath us, and
the damage
would have run
into millions if
he hadn’t'broken
his hind legs in
trying to jump
an Bft. fen ce
backwards. If there is any authority on the
velocity of snake poisons he might be able to
inform us what poison did that lot, the snake
having about three-quarters of an hour start of
the adder.
• »'■ • *
As far as Victoria is concerned the Game
Laws for’the protection of native fauna are a
fa'rce. In the furriers’ shops are openly displayed
all the year round lyre-bird tails, emu eggs, and
the pelts of koala, kangaroo, opossum, and platy-.
pus.', Private inquiries result in the information
that ,the furrier gets regular supplies of these
articles from his various Victorian agencies, and
the Law only inconveniences him to the extent of
making him keep up a slight pretence of secrecy
in his dealings.
“David H. Richards”: So “Duroc”
(B. 7/3/’O7) lias arrived at the conclusion that
“ for crass idiocy a horse is the limit.” Well, I’ll
undertake that nine out of every 10 equities have
more intelligence than a man who could make so
utterly ridiculous a statement. Innumerable in-
stances of equine brain could be adduced if it did
not appear so entirely superfluous. 1 knew a
grey mare owned by A. Brouff, of Wilgabar
(Walgett, N.S.W.), that for solving knotty lock-
problems and gate-fastening conundrums would
have licked Solomon hollow. During the drought
she displayed this faculty in a remarkable degree,
and gained many a feed thereby. Ihave repeatedly
known her to untie a rope or unbuckle a strap
with her teeth, then go into the stable and regale
herself on chaff. Once, when the key was acci-
dentally' left in the lock of a hay-shed, she turned
it with her teeth, or got it undone somehow, and
was inside in the morning, looking amiable.
Nearly all drovers’ horses know, when the rider
ties the wires down and makes them jump over
to good grass, that they are trespassing, and never
wander far from the camp. If they hear the
sound of another horse’s hoofs they quietly step
over on to their own side till they see the animal.
If he is onl,y feeding they join him, but if he has a
rider aboard, they wait till the danger has passed
before re-entering the prohibited paddock. If belled,
they will feed with head low down all the while,
to muffle the .sound of the bells, bells, bells, bells,
bells, bells, bells, as Poe has it: While on the
subject of horses, what remarkable sight they'
have ! One night, on an errand of much
urgency, I was galloping at breakneck pace
across a big plain. It was as dark as the
alleged visitation of Egypt, or the ways of the
party that writes to the Telegraph complaining
about the Federal capital. Suddenly the horse
stopped dead, and I sat on his neck. Dismount-
ing, I found a six-wire, tightly-strained fence
about a foot from my prad’s nose. I can assure
the whole crowd of you in the office that the sweat
broke out oh me ; I can send you some of it in a
bottle. Another time, swinging at a stiff hand-
gallop along the Bingara-Barraba road, singing a
Lawson ballad to an improvised air of my own,
my horse stopped with instantaneity. It was so
ebon that / couldn’t see anything when I looked
down ; but, getting to earth, I found a drunken
man embracing the ground. There are innumer-
able authentic instances of horses refusing to go
past certain places at night. What they see is
among the things unknown.
■* . * * ' *
Southland (M.L.) spud-orchardists and
oat-mongers are fighting for admission to an ex-
publican’s farm in order to see his prodigious
potatoes and extraordinary oats. The publican
was outed by Prohibition a year or two ago, and
as his stock of beer couldn’t be used in the
-ordinary way he sorrowfully stored it and thought
hard. The outcome of his deep think is the spuds
mentioned herein and the outrageous oats before
referred to. He simply soaked the seeds in beer,
planted them and awaited the astonishing, result.
Not only are the potatoes free from the blight
which is playing, Topfiet .with all .other .district
Tators, but they are r a fearful’size, none weighing
less that 31b. 10oz.: Ex : ‘Bung had to chop the oats'
down one at a time with an axe, but he hasn’t yet
found the team of horses that got bushed in them.
Next year he is going to ringbark his oats early in
the season.
AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I know there were thieves in the garden
Where the shadow's gathered last night;
And I know that the old moon westward sailing,
A million stars in her long wake trailing,
Was only their burglar light.
I know they were women robbers,
For I heard the whirr of a gown,
bike the flutter and rustle of branches swaying,
Or the vagrant whisper of breezes straying
Through Autumn’s harvest of brown.
And now at the flush of the dawning,
When the sun in the East swings red,
I know' by the sorrowful winds’ complaining,
And the golden shower from the tree-tops raining.
They stole the Summer and fled.
S. A.
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re .contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed 'in ; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.Gr. : You will find that that Monkey firm
proposes only to export iron ore from Australia. It isn’t the
Monkey’s idea at all to manufacture here, but to let the
poor Australian dig up the dirt for the lordly Jap to
manufacture into steel... .L.H.F. : Can’t answer pars, in
this column ; take too much space... .Natives : Thanks ;
we have that information O.H. : It is necessary to be
practical; and there are half a dozen things demanding
federalisation more urgently than education... Prooshan :
Our dictionary defines “insect” as “any air-breathing
arthropod, as a spider or scorpion, also any small
crustacean ... any sihall, trivial or contemptible person
or thing.” Then it hurries on to “insect-powder, a
powder used for the extermination of insects.” Conse-
quently, we are going to put insect powder on a certain
anti-Federal politician we know 0f....YV. Brown: The
girl whose hair became hopelessly entangled (in
eight verses) with a shrub had remarkable hair,
or ' else it was a very prickly shrub L.L.F.:
Doesn’t quite 1 reach “the mark F.W.: Lifelike
and realistip, but Hot skilfully enough presented.
'.... ..V.H.F. : A very commonplace ghost yarn
Beeswax: You don’t stick I....Oglamite : Has good
points, 'but is too disjointed and spasmodic... .Caber,
Itan, and one or two others: Tub Bulletin is tired of
the discussion of Kidston’s chances. We want all the
space available to barrack for a good policy. Let the
elections tell about the chances Baronia: Hardly in-
teresting -enough*, but your writing style is all right.
Try again Urban: Alas, not good enough!....
R.E. : Both “Jay’’and you are extremists. The truth
of the matter-lie's between you.. ..Arthur G.: Can’t say,
until we’ve seen it.. ..J.J.C. : Funny, but we don’t wisli
needlessly to shock people’s religious opinions.... W.T.S.:
Very feeble satire....ll. Mac.: “An easy and graceful
style,” is it? Well, you may have found it easy, but
we don’t find it graceful H.D. : Fear there’s no
remuneration gummed on to that joke Krys W.:
Last lot of suggestions a rather ineffective batch.
“Serpent” yarn very gruesome K.J.K.: The fact
that Bill was deaf is hardly a story in itself....S.
Johnson: Your schoolmistress isn’t original. Miss
Asphyxia - Smith, in an ancient American novel
by Mrs. Beecher Stowe (“ Oldtown Folks ”), had a similar
idea. She used soap and sand as a cure for lying....
Old Footballer: The Bulletin sneers at the man who,
while posing as a high-souled amateur who is in the game
for the love of it, takes wages in the shape of money for
a hot sea-bafh, just for the same reason that a magis-
tra e sneers at the fellow who cashes a valueless cheque ,
because he is a fraud, a hypocrite, and an obtainer of
money by false pretences. If he wants to be a pro-
fessional and earn his living as a footballer, well and
good. Jf the Association won’t let him play as
a professional, let all the men who are at present
being paid for hot sea-baths go on strike, and see
if they cannot force the hand of the Association
Diogenes: Beads like reality’, but isn’t well enough
shaped-out.. M.T.J. : Required smarte. treatment....
Bita S. : “ Little Chap ” ranges from pretty fair to pretty
bad....C.R. : Always givedateof issue in which criti-
cised.par has appeared... .G.R.K. : True enough ; but
yourverse is broken-winded.. .Onward : Nothing in either
... . Comet: “ Craze ” gets nearer the mark than is usual
with you. ‘ ‘ Remember ” very ordinary jingle— Arcady :
Has some noble lines, but the metre is clumsy, and you
cannot say “ had gave ”... .M.S.W. : Pretty well con-
ceived, but the touch of the tyro is too evident....
O.T.J.L. : They don’t get near the mark Louburke :
Smart, but spoilt by such awful rhymes as “ saw,”
“roar,” “work,” “hurt,” &c.... .Nilgo : Sorry' can’t
identify now. “Saturday Night” an indefinite item.
....Alt. K. : Trite in both subject and treatment.
R.J.McD. : When in the first line we struck “a
scoin of English aristocracy,” we knew what to expect
.'. ..0.H.'.: It nearly'caught 0n... .John Irven : Bather
well told, but the pipe incident is 01d....R. Carton:
Lacks force and impressiveness... .A.H.G.N.: Good
stuff in it. Pity it is so formal and magnilo-
quent. Any pars, you send will be considered....
K. A.S.: That Italian jumping record was a fake.... J.K.:
No more horse-sense yarns, unless they' are very' extra-
ordinary.... .llu Klux : Considering whether your last
batch was worth the 4d. deficient postage it cost us
through being “ closed against inspection.”... .Seaweed :
Contribution washed up on a rock, and perished in the
sun Moriie : “Rhyme and Reason” too trifling
Appin : Verse addressed to Amaryllis or Sarah, or what-
ever her naiije is, had better be sent to the girl direct,.
She-seems a really' nice girl... .Peacock : Poem of old
shoes may perhaps be as good as an ode of ancient hoof-
gear can be. Weil set down its failure to the fact that
the venerable paw-box isn’t an inspiriting subject
Ginger: “Undesirable Immigrant” reads true, hut has
few graces of diction... .M.H. : Have waded through
“ The Cat,” and reckon you’ve invented an automaton
in petticoats....- .Barefoot Jimmie: Very poor
Faith: As inconsequential as Miss Ada Ward’s own
maunderings. .J.T.8.: As The Bulletin announced
months ago, there is no earthly' chance of Dr. Dany sz being
allowed to try his rabbit virus in Australia.. . .D.McD. :
That’s the point. Vote for a Federal capital on the best of
Australia’s very' few permanent rivers.... E.C.S. : “Land
and Sea” is a rather harmless piece of eloquence on a
very old subject... H. : “Double Cross” isn't an in-
spiriting tale of horse swindle... .S.E.P. : “Anthem
Unwrit” has much good, loose scattered scenery in it,
and the breeze and the range and the setting sun and the
night wind and the distant horse-bells are all there, but,
all the same, it’s rather a mystery... .E.J.R. A. :In all
the three poems the only thing that mov ed us was the
statement that probably your body would “ rot apart.”
.... H.J.E. : “ Magic Isle ” has only one fault ; it follows
up an idea that so many’ bards have used. Every great
writer, except, perhaps, Josh Billings and’Zachariah Sut-
cliffe and the immense poet Caldwell, of S. Australia, has
had an idea, some time in his life, about an “Island
of Dreams.”... .O.J.K. : When, the whistle sounded for
publication your “Miner” just missed the cage
Ulula : Only a catalogue of slang Words put into verse—
V.B. : ‘ ‘ Old Lovers ” is partly rejected and partly crowded
out .. C. : “Way' of the gods” somehow failed to get
fairly started on its god-like track E.li.G. : Some
good lines in “Summer and Autumn” but many poor
ones, and too many varieties of metre....Olif Anson:
“Scandal” miles away. “Bull-dog” just misses the
mark D.M.R. : .“Elusive Epic” eludes again, so does
“Prayer,” so does “Damn”... G.J. : Very small frag-
ment... .D.R.MeI.,: Quaint but ineffective Roderick
Mac. : “Blob” improved, but still not good enough
Wattle : “ Spirit of the Bush ” should be a larger spectre
than that. It’s such a very small Spirit in such a very
capacious Bush Klux: “Squinter” followe I his
divergent eye into the basket. “Two Calls” was called
(alas !) to the same receptacle... .Ripley : It is difficult to
write an ode to a boarding-house, and the hash-
i tower has got you down and sat on you
■Nameless : “Simple Life” rather dreary B. Lawloi :
An'attempt to describe in Miltonic strain the blov-
iiig of the whistle at a mine is too big an effort.
1. ., XG.A.K. : All pretty and pessimistic, but not
Strong. A low-spirited woman wandering in shoit
'm’etre among the flowers is a discouraging person....
F.CkK. : Very gruesome without being very interesting.


IN THE PUBLIC EYE.
Each of Mr. Mackey’s vindicatory
statements has proved in the plainest
manner that the Government has no
national land policy.—Age.
In fact, the Government’s Land .
Policy Is really a Dust Policy. ! ~ip,
A 1 "*
It is a poor spirit—not unobservable
among certain persons in Australia—to
attempt to exalt Australia by seeking
to depreciate England.— Argus.
No, the Argus was never guilty of that
sort of parochialism. /
INSULARITY.
On the great question of defence it
ought to be well understood that Aus-
tralia cannot take a limited and insular
stand. It cannot narrow the matter
down to one having a purely Austra-
lian interest.— Argus.
\rgus : “ I'm sure that gun is only
meant to guard your own selfish
welfare. Me an’ this gent can’t
understand such insular narrow
THE BUND LEADING THE
BLINDED.
The official engineering bunglers of
the Victorian Water Supply Depart-
ment have been busy of late Their
last little oversight—the Waranga Basin
trifle—is involving the State in £30,000
of extra expense. The State is on the
eve of undertaking a momentous irrigation policy, and it will have to depend
upon its departmental engineering talent for guidance in that policy.— Age.
A patient study of these facts will supply the key to the cryptic
diagram above.
It is simply absurd for people to
attack me because I am trying to do
God’s work in my own way. —Miss Ada
Ward , in answer to angry actresses and
other interested ones.
The Evangelist: “ You object to me
doing this 1 How can you be so
unreasonable—you surely see it is
my kindly way of doing God’s
work?”
After she became a Christian,
General Booth called and took her in
lifs arms.— Ada Ward.
Naughty General I
THE "ARGUS” AND OTHER FRIVOLITIES.


pfl
One correspondent to Sydney Tele-
graph, ** Ruack,” alleges terrible untidi-
ness on the part of the post-office
messengers, and gives it as a reason
why N.S. Wales should *• awake and
arise” and secesh.
Infuriated Citizen at the ’Phone :
•• What I Jones engaged I Jones
never was engaged when I
wanted him until we had thi*
dreadful Federation.”
• THE MAN LIKE JOHNSON.”
A gentleman named V/. E. Johnson
is very prominent In this secesh agita-
tion. We balieve Mr. Johnson used to
be a sign-writer, ft is difficult to get
things in proper perspective from this
point of view.
But possibly this crisis will be over-
come if the Australian Government
promptly issues clean pinnies and
hankies to post boys in the Ha State
territory.
A HARDSHIP CAUSED BY FEDER-
TION.
Old Secesh Bowler: ”Wby, since
Federation, the bar at our bowling
club has had to be closed at sun-
down. and even the sun goes down
earlier now than It did befcre
Federation. S’pose we’ll have to
knock off now, or we can’t get a
drink I ”
Secesh party (reads) : “ • A leprous rat
has been caught in Melbourne.’
•* Great Heavens I whoever heard of
leprous rats before we had Federa-
tion I ”
■ CaL\IIU Y KEIvS I
Kllf EUWEi £'''' f
I I Ak!L ’
h l/iVLLLLTV 1
LISTEN TO THIS !
The humiliating history of Federation
shows us that New South Wales has,
in a spirit of meekness and humility,'
yielded too much in the past.—One
correspondent.
This is not a demonstration in Euclid.
It is a proof (from the anti-Federal
press) that not less than 100 miles
from Sydney ” means •• right up agin’
Sydney’s back door.”
Puzzle—to find the proof.
UNDER THE CABBAOE-TREE. A
TYPICAL SECESSION MEETINQ.
THE MANY AND GRIEVOUS WRONGS OF THE MA STATE.


The Oxford Hotel,
KING-ST., SYDNEY.
Position Unrivalled.
Is now under the personal management of
F. O. ROBINSON.
Special attention to the Cuisine.
Modern Improvements now being ex-
ecuted, including Passenger Lift.
£20 for a Short Story.—Australasian
Traveller Competition.—Owing to the immense
amount of correspondence entailed by our 1906
Competition, letters cannot be attended to on this
occasion. Full particulars in Australasian
Traveller, Mayor June. If interested, send at
once, stamps (any State) for sixpence to Manager,
Australasian' Traveller, 190 Flmders-street,
Melbourne. Early attention necessary.
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., report re wool
To-day we submitted a small catalogue of 712 bales to a
large attendance of buyers, who operated with gre
freedom. The selection consisted principally of Queens-
land scoureds and several’locally treated consignment •
Competition was verv keen, the marketshowing a harae -
ing tendency for all good greasies and scoureds. Fault.'
descriptions sold about on a par with our last auctio .
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE MISUSED WORD “HOME
THE COPPER: “ Look here, me good mahn, when
are y' going home? ”
Party Dependent on Lamp-post for Support:
“ Thinksh I’ll wait till end of April (hie)
so as to avoid terriblesh English winter.”
Died at Mitchell (Q.), on March 30, aged
72, W. B. Lethbridge, a grandson of N.S.W.
Governor Philip Gidley King. For many vears
the descendant was clerk of the local shire
council.
Not generally known in Melbourne that
the learned judge—Cussen—who refused to issue
a ‘‘quarantine” order, against Wren’s “sur-
rendered ” Tote and Club, takes a lively interest
in horse-racing—if not in pony-racing. He is, or
was, part owner of a gee-gee or two.
Gawler (S.A.), where they make locomo-
tives, reaping machines, and national anthems,
has put up a record in town-clerking. It is just
50 years since it started out with a mayor and
etceteras. For the first 25 years Rudall, sen.,
was town clerk, and then they made him the local
P.M. For the last 25 years Rudall, jun., has
been town clerk, and lately they made him the
local M.P.
G. W. May hew, for a quarter of a century
a resident of the Northern Territory, died at Port
Darwin on the 17th. He was editor and pro-
prietor of the North Australian newspaper,
which was subsequently amalgamated with the
Northern Territory Times, of which he was
part proprietor, and editor until seven years ago.
i < became too ill to write, and dropped out.
“Ever since,” the telegram says, “ he lingered in
misery. feciatica and gout were his complaints,
contracted in the first instance by sleeping in
wet clothes.”
“ Quairibi,” Wo'ollahra, where Chief Jus-
tice Darley has resided fbr over 30 years, is in the
market for private sale. But recently “ Lillian-
fels,” the “ Chief’s ” mountain home, was offered
for sale, with* Results not published. It is an open
secret amongst' people who profess to know that
Chief Justipe Darley, on his retirement from the
Bench —he is now in his 77th year—will reside in
England. “ Quambi ” was the old home of
Montagu Consett Stephen, third son of Chief
Justice Alfred Stephen, who died in 1872.
“Cecil P.” : Do any Bulletin readers
remember Tom Quin, who used to carry the mail
northwards from Hergott (S. A.) 20 odd years ago?
Torn was an American, and the champion blas-
phemer of Centralia. First time I saw him was
in ’B6, at Charlie Chappie’s—the only pub
then in Hergott, and the most northerly in the
I said, “You’re Tom Quin ? ” “I am,
stranger,” he said ; “ I’m the man that said that
I’d give the Almighty a game of euchre for the
stars, and bankrupt the blahky firmament!”
Premier Bent’s doleful cable from Port
Said to the effect that he had been miserably sea-
sick all the way recalls bis trip to Colombo some
years back. Tommy was sick all through the trip
to Colombo, and he was ill all the time he was
there, for the land kept heaving under his feet
from force of habit. Then he was, if possible,
worse on the voyage back than on the voyage out,
and he was ill for a fortnight after his return, for
it took Melbourne that time to leave off heaving.
The chances are that Thomas will have to hold on
to the ground all through his stay in England.
About a restless ex-cop :
Ex-constable, Cornelius Crowe, who never wearies of
repeating 1 unpleasant allegations concerning certain Mel-
bourne detectives and their chief, O’Callaghan, has lately
uttered another pamphlet. This time he starts off with an
interesting reference to the abortive charge of attempted
blackmail which Was brought against him (Crowe) last
Year, licit by Bennett, M.L.A., to whom he was said to
have forwarded the letter complained of, but by a myste-
rious prosecutor-—one “George Walker,” who never made
dpy appearance in person. Crovve’s story practically alleges
that the police conspired to Work up this criminal
base agstinst him, and that “ George Walker ” was
d man iri their employ, and that when he
Applied to tile Attorney-General and Premier Bent
for information re the identity Of the prosecutor
who was trying to push him into prison, afld the
identity of the mysterious person who wsLs putting tip
the money for that purpose, he could get no reply.
The rest of Crowe’s pamphlet is little else than a renewal of
. his old attack on Victoria’s ill-chosen Chief Commissioner
of Police, but the first page, at least, is a bright new libel on
Detective Macmanamy, and if the Vic. Government claims
any public respect for the administration of the Police
Department, it should either abandon that claim right
a,way or institute a Crown prosecution of Crowe for
libel. As for the name of the outsider who paid for the
hire of barristers when invisible George Walker charged
Crowe with sn attempt to blackmail somebody else—
well, the publication of that name might throw a lot of
light on the mystery of the case.
Victoria has an astronomer who doesn’t a
hit resemble the dreamy, star-gazing,
horoscope-drawing personage, with the
Dowie whiskers and the far-away look,
that we meet in the threepenny no-
velette. He is an eminently practical,
hard-headed person—at least his occu-
pation of flapping sovereigns on the
counter, and writing “N.S.F.” and
other remarks on pieces of paper, in
the National Bank at Brunswick, sug-
gests him in that character. David
Ross is a member of the Victorian
Branch of the British Astronomical
Association, and has just got the
Donohoe medal from the Astronomical
Society for catching an unsuspected
comet in the act on March 17, 1906.
This is the second vagrant comet
Ross hij.s arrested on suspicion, and
the learned people have docketed it
“Comet G.” The Donohoe Comet
medal Was instituted in 1890, and has
been awarded 55 times—but then some
people get it for the discovery of a
miserable little asteroid.
From a man in the court:—
W. N. Willis had his hair cut before sitting his last
trial. The eminent land agent looked lively and weary
alternately. At times he seemed as interested as a boy
at a pantomime ; and at other times he sat up asleep,
like a pious churchman in a prominent pew. On the
whole, be was bored, and mentally calculating how much
all this was costing him by the minute. Willis, although
a man of,great accounts, is an economist. Between
times he cut tobacco from a plug of the best and calmly
filled his pipe. The marvel is that, in a moment of ab-
straction, he didn’t strike a match and have a puff or two
before a shocked and flabbergasted Court could realise
the enormity. He was, of course, preparing for a
“ smoke-oh ” adjournment. He looks a less anxious
Willis than the man who tripped to South Africa two
years ago.
Apropos Austin Chamberlain’s advocacy of
“ going back to the land ” as a means of removing
difficulties in the way of tariff reform in Britain.
Queensland Lands Minister Bell was at Cam-
bridge with the younger Chamberlain, and the
two were selected to represent the Cambridge
Union in an annual debate with the Oxford Union
on some branch of the fiscal question. Both were
then strong Freetraders. Since then Bell, among
other things, has introduced a Bill for the com-
pulsory resumption of estates.
J. B. Ronald, late of the House of Reps.,
has reverted to the church. At a recent meeting
of the Presbytery of Melbourne South he applied
to be put on the Home Mission list with a view
to preaching for a “call.” A feeble protest was
lodged against the application, by somebody who
alleges that somebody else had once reproved
Ronald for using “a bad word” on the Parlia-
mentary premises, but the awful charge was not
proven, so the order of the white necktie was con-
ferred once more upon the ex-M.H.R.
Thus “ J.A.C.” :
On Saturday last died A. Ferrari, an Italian, resident
in Sydney for something like 30 years. None among his
surviving compatriots is better or more favorably known.
For years he supplied Italian and French shipping with
every eatable I delicacy that comes out of the
boot-shaped country. Before he catered for his
fellow man’s material wants he catered for his moral
advancement by giving expositions of legerdemain.
He travelled India, and a great part of Asia generally, as
a conjurer, ancl he was very expert. In India he met
Pompei and Cagli, once known here as operatic entre-
preneurs, and with them engaged in several theatrical
speculations, which, he informed me, were not any more
successful than they deserved to be. Then he
came to Australia, still following the showman
profession. He made cats dance to music,
also fowls and other quadrupeds. Thev did
not do it so much for the music as for their health—they
were standing on a hot plate. However, lam convinced
that there was no absolute brutality—Ferrari was too
kind-hearted a man for that, and the plate was only
moderately hot. His widow, known under her nom de
thedtre of De Baraty. is, and has been for many years, a
teacher of singing in Sydney. I had the pleasure
of meeting her, a long time ago, before she became
Mrs. Ferrari, in Milan. She was then recognised as an
operatic vocalist of considerable merit. She came to
Australia, I believe, under engagement to the late W. S.
Lyster. Miss Ferrari, their daughter, a young Indy of
commanding presence, endowed with an excellent mezzo-
contralto voice, has more than once earned the applause
of Sydney audiences.
MORE PROTECTION WANTED.
STOUT PARTY : “ Why, there's nothing of you for it to get hold of. How can the heat affect you?"
BILLY: “ Because , can't you see, old feller, I've got a head full of first-chop brains, and my
skull’s not thick enough to protect 'em.”
F. O. Schneider, late superintendent of
Roma (Q.) gaol, died last month, and now his
body has been embalmed and sent to Germany,
where a military funeral is waiting for it. It
seems Schneider served in the Danish War in
1864, in the Austro-Prussian War in 1866, and
throughout the Franco-Prussian War, gaining in
the last unpleasantness the Order of the Iron
Cross ; wherefore the waiting military funeral.
It has had to wait a good while, too; for
Schneider spent 36 years as policeman and gaoler
in Queensland, and probably had almost forgotten
how to do even the goose-step.
Bishop Bromby, deceased in England at
the age of 93, was the last C.E. bishop nominated
by the Crown to an Australian diocese. He was
sent to Tasmania in 1864. Bishop Broughton
was the first nominated, and that prelate, on
assuming the Apron in Sydney, made it an article
of faith that all nominations must come through
the Crown—a kind of Apostolic succession.
When the Homan Catholics set up a bishop,
Broughton attempted to make his assumption of
the title a breach of law, and moved the Sydney
Courts to that effect. The result was only Costs
—good old Costs.
Quaint effects of the Crick-Willis trial :
The jury and defendants in the Crick-Willis trial were
nob the only parties subjected to restrictions during the
hearing - . His Honor Justice G. B. Simpson remained a
recluse at his home when he was not seated on the Bench
heaving the ease trail its weary length. “G.B.”hasa
capacity for dining out, limited only by his sense of the
dignities that do hedge a Judge—particularly a puisne
Judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in its
divorce and matrimonial jurisdiction. But his Honor
felt it his duty not to dine out during the trial. The
case was one of stupendous importance, and he was deter-
mined to preside over it undisturbed by mixed food.
Even at home, it is reported, his Honor fell off con-
siderably in his soup. His Honor soups a good deal, and
he keeps a cook who makes excellent soup ; and it is
only when the burden of responsibility and greatness
weighs heavy in the divorce and matrimonial jurisdiction
that his Honor fades away or diminishes in his soup, so
to speak.
Smith is dead—killed through falling off
a train —and the world is the poorer for the lack
of him. The Maoriland papers in their festive
moods called him “ Hee Hem” Smith, because
he was said to be shaky on his aspirates; also,
they thought it wildly funny that he was lamp-
lighter at New Plymouth when he was first elected
to Parliament, and had to get a deputy to take
his place while he went to light the poli-
tical lamp at Wellington. The people who
called him “Hee Hem” (many of them should
themselves have been called “Hee Haw”) fancied
Smith would only be a temporary joke, but he
stayed in politics for a dozen years or more, and
was in them when he died. He was a hefty
democrat, a bitter enemy of jobbery, an honest
politician, and a tremendous battler for the pro-
motion of Maoriland industries. If his “h ” was
wrong his ’eart was in the right place, and there
was much brain in his ’ead, and if there is 'a
reward hereafter for unflinching honesty and
dogged patriotism he has gone to ’eaven, And
after all Smith’s “h” and the “haitch ” of Parkes
were very much on a par.
E. J. Brady sends an ivy leaf from Gordon’s
grave, and writes: —
Took a walk over with Alex. Sass from North Brighton
last Sunday, to see Gordon’s grave. It is shaded by a
branching wattle, which they tell me blooms well in the
season. Gordon was fond of the wattle, and the tree
seems appropriate. Some admirers of the dead, members
of the South Melbourne branch of the A.N.A., have
deposited a wreath in a glass case, with suitable advertise-
ment, on the grave. Some other admirers have written
lines of their own composition in pencil on the marble
tablets at the base of the pedestal. The lines, which are
calculated to give any poet nightmare, mostly advise
Gordon to sleep well. The cemetery trustees should have
them erased ; they seem superfluous in view of the fact
that poor Gordon has been sleeping very comfortably
since 1870. The inscription on:the stone, “Aged 37,
reads pathetically. The oldest inhabitant of Brighton
still fondly shows the tree whereunder the poet's body
was found, and the old-fashioned, weatherboard cottage
where police trooper Gordon lived is now a public tea
room. And the Sunday tripper'crowds by unheeding in
his electric tram !
Nambo (Q.) has a shire councillor, Henry
Ensor, who started looking after the local drain:
in 1879, along with Joshua Peter Bell, Hugh
Nelson, William Miles, and George Thorn, all of
whom became somebodies in the political world
of Bananaland. Henry Ensor kept on diligently
looking after the local drain, and has, in the whole
28 years, never missed a Board meeting.
The death of George Hamilton Traill, one-
time manager of the Oriental Banking Corpora-
tion in Melbourne, recalls the closing of the bank
on Saturday, 3rd May, 1884, and the scoop made
by Melbourne Herald over the event. The
highest rates paid in Australian journalism were
reached in the transaction. One person became
aware that for the bank, which closed peacefully
at noon as usual, there would be no re-opening on
Monday, and he resolved to turn the knowledge
into cash. The offer was made to the Herald,
and that paper, after serious cogitation, bought
the facts at £5 per line. Mr. Traill heard much
angry declamation and some threats that after-
noon (Melbourne hadn’t got used to bank smashes
then), and when the storm subsided he retired
from that class of business. The Oriental had
for years been a tower and pinnacle among banks,
but huge embezzlements (it was about the most
embezzled bank on earth), wild speculations.
South American loans, and the depreciation of
silver pulled it down in a heap. And it made a
great heap when it came down.
THE BOY WHO IS OUT OF IT.
Mr. G. H. Reid states that the affectation and en-
thusiasm for reciprocity is almost sickening.
The hunger of aldermen and such-like for
cheap advertisement nearly resulted in a tragedy
after Varischetti’s rescue from the Bonnie Vale
mine (W.A.). Instead of being allowed to rest
and sleep, the Italian was hauled to Perth at the
instance of certain more or less public persons,
driven to the local show-ground, where a fire-
brigade demonstration was on, had _ the usual
speeches poured on him, was driven back
to Government House and introduced to
the Governor and heard more speeches, and
was then taken to dinner with the Premier,
Minister for Mines, and others, and made
the wearied victim of additional speeches.
Next day, the papers reported that he was laid
up with pains in the head—all the speeches were
buzzing in his haggard cranium. It was a tribute
to his marvellous endurance that he didn’t die at
the dinner table.
SEVENTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Algernon Charles Swinburne was 70 years old this
month.
The delight dithyrambed without ceasing,
The desire of all women and men—
At thirty these topics were pleasing;
What are they at seven times ten ?
When the hair on the head thin and hoar is,
How swings the old sumptuous strain?
What sort of a girl is Dolores
When Life’s on the wane?
Is she fed with perpetual vigor,
As rashly in youth you declared ?
Has Time’s irresistible rigor
No part of her wonder impaired ?
Is the midnight still pale with her stories
Does no weariness mount to the brain
Of the sleepy and sinking Dolores,
Your Lady of Pain?
Does the sharp Uric acid not leaven
Her blood and make painful her bones?
Will she last unto seventy times seven
Who at seventy listlessly moans ?
Mafi to one of our Swell Sanatories
*o wheel Her Bath chair she is fain.
Out ripe and rheumatic Dolorfes,
Wbrn Lady of Pain !
With a stick and umbrella she hobbles
By the dodr of the Temple ajar,
And past it she limps o’er the cobbles;
A Has-been ’mid youngsters that Are:
Too hard for her knee-caps the floor is ;
No more shall she enter the fane,
Poor toothless and tottering Dolores,
Tired Lady of Pain !
Triumphant the clarions are calling,
And the hymns peal their sorrow and sin ;
She sits in the dusk slowly falling,
And orders threepennorth of gin.
And the thing that she wants more and more is
Asleep by the fire to reinain-r-
O septuagenarian Dolores,
Old Lady of Pain !
vie.
PLAM.


The
AT
3181
H 658
n
s
VHW,
s£?
4130
A 124
H 6581
1031
■<*>
■« r
a
«F
M
m
/
'A
MW ■'
f
964
A 21
No. 3181—Black or Navy Merveilleux Silk Blouses,
fasten in front .. 10/9
Similar Styles 11/9,12/9
Trimmed Guipure .. .. 15/6,17/6, 19/0
No. Al 24 —Cashmere Blouses Black, Navy, Cream,
Cardinal 7/9
H6sB—Black Chiffon Glace Silk Blouses,
trimmed Silk Guipure .. .. 26/6
Similar Styles .. .. 18/6, 22/6, 25/-
No. 4130 —Flannelette Blouses, with Velvet Tie,
Black and White, Navy and White, Navy
Green 3/3, 4/3
No. H6sBl—Embroidered Black Chiffon Glar.
Silk Blouses .. .. 25/6, 28/6, 33/6
No. 964—A1l Wool French Cashmere Blouses,
Black, Navy, Cream, Cardinal .. 8/6
No. 1031- Embroidered Cashmere Blouses, Cream,
Navy, Black, Pink, Black and White,
9/0
Similar Style ... .. .. 11/6,15/-
No. A2l—Black Sateen Blouses, fasten in front, 3 3
Similar Style .. .. .. 4/9
81194
Scod for AUTUMN & WINTER
FASHION PORTFOLIO.
Three-quarter
SAC COATS.
No. 81194 —Silk Seal Three-quarter Coats —
’ 37/6, 47/6, 57/6, 67/6, 75/-
No. 1165—Black Caracal Three-quarter Sac Coats... 55/-
Similar Styles in—
Real Brown Marmot Fur ... £8 17 6
Real Sable Squirrel ... ... £4 14 0
Real Seal Musquash £lO 10 0
Anthony
Hordern
®. Sons
PALACE EMPORIUM,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only
Universal
Providers.
■
No. 1165


An English newspaper points out the
longevity of Irish Judges as compared with the
men on the English Bench, and urges retirement.
There are five Irish Judges who are past 70 years
of age, while a sixth is m his 70th year. Chief
Baron Palles is 76, and has held office for 33
years; and Sir Samuel Walker, the Irish Lord
Chancellor, is 75. In N.S.W. Chief Justice
Darley, a Dublin man, is in his 77th year.
Complexion Charm. —Every child is by
Nature endowed with a skin as soft in texture and
fine in grain as the petals of a peach blossom, but
to retain it beyond the years of childhood, or to re-
gain it when lost, Nature must be assisted.
Valaze affords this aid. Valaze builds up the
tissues, refines the skin and gives the complexion
that fine grained softness and transparent charm
that makes a face beautiful to look upon. It
clears away every trace of Wrinkles, Crowsfeet,
Sallowness, Freckles and Tan, and gives again to
its user the smooth rose-petal skin that was hers
in childhood. Valaze is guaranteed not to en-
courage the growth of downy hair. It is simply
a Beauty Builder—building on Nature’s lines.
3s. 6d. and 6s. jar (containing three times as
much), postage 6d.
Valaze Herbal Soap, as used by the famous
Court beauties of Russia and Vienna. Com-
pounded wholly from almonds and rare herbs.
Delightfully refreshing and makes the skin like
velvet. It should be used in place of other soaps
with Valaze. It is far choicer and lasts thrice as
long. 2s. cake, postage 3d.
Rusmo Hair Killer, a new preparation for
instantly, removing superfluous hairs. Cannot
harm the most tender skin. Can be used at home,
leaving no after trace or blemish. 5s., or posted
under cover 5s. 3d.
Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure.
No matter how obstinate these distressing
blemishes have proved, this Russian cure will
dispel them. It makes the coarsest skin soft and
clear. 2s. 6d. box, posted 3s.
Valaze Massage Rollers, for plumping out
and reducing the flesh, so that Wrinkles, Double
Chins, Flabby Necks, Crowsfeet, and all like un-
lovely detractions are rolled away. Price, 8s. 6d.
each; small set, in case, 10s. 6d. ; set of two, in
case, 18s. 6d. ; complete set of three, 25s. Sold
by all chemists, or direct from Mlle. H.
Rubinstein and Co., 274 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and 158 Pitt-street, Sydney.*
Don’t trifle with coughs and colds. All serious threat
and lung troubles start from simple colds. Don’t trifle
with unreliable remedies —Senior’s Black Currant Balsam
is the proper remedy. It’s Nature’s remedy for these
complaints. It does not drug a cough into silence as
narcotic remedies do ; it stops the cough by removing the
cause of the cough. You certainly want coughs cured m
that vvay. It is pleasant to take ; it is equally good for
children or adults. Obtainable everywhere. Price Is,
6d. and 2s. 6d. per bottle. Prepared only at Seniors
Pharmacy, 246 George-street, Sydney.*
Charles Heidsieck
EIXIB
Aua vym
pm
U
FINEST EXTRA <P
fit-
l"
THIS
FIGURE
shows the effect
of
Kleinert's
Slim Belt
Hose Support.
LIGHT, EASY,
GRACEFUL.
MADE ONLY BY
KLEIN ERT.
THE PRIDE OF COGNAC.
OTARD-DUPUY BRANDY
VINTAGES—IB2O, 1848, 1865, 1875, 1880, 1885, 1890.
ĺ
Dress FABRies
Are Stocked by the
Leading Drapers.
maVkTHE varnished board
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 23, 1907.
My Dear ARini,—
John See named daughter Ruby as one of his
executors; and in this case the executors have
much Work to do, for the N.S.W. ex-Premier,
who hdd more business irons in the fire than most
men, provided that things should be allbwed to go
on just the same as when he was alive—business,
investments, and all. The declared value of
the estate is a few odd coppers over £173,000 —
half-a-ton of odd coppers, in fact. But the
dark beauty of tho wholesome common sense
won’t for a while have much time to personally
interest herself in the wholesale price of maize,
and the state of the market in pumpkins, for
there’s a trousseau to be got together. Her mar-
riage with Mr. “Jack ” Meeks, a nephew of the
Sydney head of the Gibbs-Bright firm, is to
happen in a few months.
Lady Northcote, who was present with several
joints of the glittering vice-regal caudal attach-
ment, had presented Dvorak’s “ Carnaval Over-
ture” to the society, and the society let the Lady
hear her gift. It is a better sort of Mafficking
done into music. All is hilarity and bustle, and
the twining of arms, and the throwing up of the
other fellow’s cap. An attractive patch of harp
work made the audience spread out its neck like
a telescope in order to look at the two Plazon
girls. They twang most tunefully.
Talking of the Federal Judges: Sydney society
takes their presence here with an indifference
that it does not accord to large-footed imported
actresses. At the civic reception, last Thursday,
at the Town Hall, the Governor-General North-
cotes “featured ” the Judges and their wives,
sending for them to come up on to the dais of the
mighty to have distinctive attentions paid them.
Lady Northcote never misses the diplomatic ’bus
any more than used the late much-loved Rawson
lady.
It was a goodly sight—this reception by the
Mayoral Hughes in honor of the Northcotes. .
The Town Hall did unmistakably “present a
brilliant appearance.” The lines, curves, van-
dykes and plicatures of its dome and wall archi-
tectural decoration were outlined with electric
bulbs. Some two thousand guests came along,
but there were no seats save a few under the
eastern gallery. All the other under-the-galleries
space was filled with refreshment tables. So the
effect of massed color, as the host of women and
men, uniformed or magpied, crowded towards
the centre of the Hall, made the parrot house
at the Zoo a drab memory. The mayoral pair’s
two sons, one big, one little, and Town Clerk
Nesbitt, and under-study Layton bore the brunt of
receiving theinvading army. Mrs. Hughes in white
satin, and with a long trail of exquisite mauve and
pink flowers drooping from corsage almost to skirt-
hem, showed up well against the background of
fern and potted palm. A lot of Germans from
the warship Condor were the star turn before
they removed their wide circular cloaks—just
such cloaks as noble conspirators wear in
Andersonian melodramas, fastened across the
breast _ with gold or alleged gold clasps
that winked when the light caught them.
Also, their German feet were garbed in blinding-
shiny boots, and they had brilliantined hair, and
such an air of unearthly spotlessness as to suits,
medals, and epaulettes that one longed to throw
burrs and strands of cotton on to them. And
there was one pair of boots at which I would
gladly have aimed the muddy clod of pure
cussedness.
Count Morner, Swedish Consul-General, was
one of the most be-medalled men at the civic
reception, but he is a fine-looking varlet, and his
noble fagade has plenty more room for tinsmith’s
work. Little Premyslav, who is staying with
Morner, was also decorated on a coat lapel. The
Sultan of Turkey was the giver of one medal.
Premyslav played before the potentate, - and, as .
his Majesty had run out of cigars, he gave a
decoration instead. The other ornament was from
the King of Sweden, and was probably bestowed
in recognition of Premy. being short-haired.
Lady Northcote, as the result of a chill, had to
postpone her visit to “ Peter’s Mother.” She will
call on Mrs. Peter, senior, later in the week.
Last night her Ex.’s consort and Mr. Barton, late
Administrator of Papua, and a beautiful hunch of
aides and private secretaries watched Peter’s
Mother evolve from a Martha-like wife to a gay
widowhood and a sympathetic number two hubby.
A pretty little artiste now in Sydney tells a
droll tale of being at a college dinner at Oxford,
and having as neighbor on one side an Indian
prince blazing with jewels. “He seemed to
admire me,” says the teller, “ and at the close of
the feast told me he was going to run down into
the country for a few days, and if I would accord
him the great pleasure of my society for that
time he would give me a signed photograph.”
No wonder some men die poor, and no wonder
Ada Ward talks about the dangers and tempta-
tions of the stage. A nigger’s signed photograph !
Mrs. Threlfall (she was in Sydney 7 some years
with her professor), a sister of Mrs. B. R. Wise,
has put another book of verse on the market.
“The Shore of Dreams” it is called. What
would the poets do without “dreams”? And
yet there is nothing really remarkable about
them. You lie down on an iron framework worth
about 16s. 6d., and have a delusion with misty
edges to it, and it mostly arises from cheese.
Lieutenant and Mrs. Rawson came back from
the moneymoon at National Park, and their first
frisk was to go to Moorefield races. and a
piercing westerly stopped society from following
them.
Mrs. Anderson, at her au revoir reception at
Wonderland City, last Sunday, braved the blue
and gold and cold in a cream gown of [lace,
chiffon and silk. Some 300 guests attended.
Mrs. Leahy, Mayoress of Mosman, and Mes-
dames Arthur and Phipps, posing in a tableau re-
presenting the United Kingdom at the All Nations
Fete in aid of the Mosman cricket oval, got
storms of applause for the really truly beautiful
result. The whole fete was an artistic success.
As three hundred whole pounds are expected on
realisation it must have been a financial coup.
The wife and daughter of late conductor Leon
Caron are living at Boulogne, and the youngster
is chasing the bubble reputation along the ivory
keys of a French piano.
Mrs. Brough and Miss Emma Temple have
takeii a cottage at Waverley, and last week were
busy putting the carpet and the cobweb down.
Mr. Franz Degen, the picturesque violinist,
who scrapes a subtle bow on a sweet fiddle, will
give Brisbane and other pineappley centres a treat
presently. And no doubt Queensland will hold
out its paw-paws to him, especially when it
remembers that his wife was one of the W. B.
Dailey girls. He and Mr. Laurance Phillip, the
master of the ivories, and a singer or so will form
the concert combination.
Paquins’, where the gad-about goes for her
Paris “models” when she isn’t particular what
her pa or her own grey retriever pays for them,
made a clear profit of £106,227 last year. Some-
times, it seems, the grey retriever ponders long
over the bill before he sends a cheque to cover it;
for the firm’s unpaid accounts at the end of the
year came to £24l,3l7—which is nearly twice as
much as I could buy a trousseau with.
A pretty little Sydney girl, who for many years
has been engaged to a man in a foreign navy, has
lately learnt from the family of her fiance that he
is in a lunatic asylum.
Dr. F. A. Bennet, of College-street, with wife
and children, has started for an earth-girdling tour
by the Manuka. By the Himalaya departed Miss
Carrie Lanceley, the brilliant soprano.
Stipendiary Magistrate MacFarlane is to marry
Mrs. Willis next Thursday. H9TI have a step-
daughter, Miss Daisy W.,'of whom he can be
mighty proud. Another sooU-to-be marriage will
be that of Miss Knox to Dr. Alains, of one of the
warships. v \.
Mr. B. R. Wise has been very ill with the pre-
vailing influenza, and has had to be moved into
the country. ’Flu, mostly does prevail in London.
It seems specially fond of visiting Australians.
Those two young men, violinist Premyslav, the
Pole, and pianist Laurance Godfrey Smith, the
Sydneysider, have been playing to poorer houses
than they deserve. Smith is beginning to rage in
the hearts of girl students, and their fingers com-
mence to trouble the Brahms Rhapsodie in B
minor and the Lisztian concertos in Q major, in
which he scores. His implacable vivacity, his
skippings like a young goat on the mountains,
and his fluent hand-crossings fascinate the femi-
nine eye.
A keenly-eared group at the Premyslav-Smith
last concert was made up of two Federal
Judges. Higgins and Isaacs, and. Mrs. Higgins
and Miss Wilson, Captain Leslie- Wilson’s
sister. Mr. Justice Isaacs’ head made a
good study in the intervals between the inter-
mezzos and the romances for those who sat obliquely
behind him. One inch of forehead slopes back
almost horizontally into a head that widens
greatly above the ears. He has barely enough
forehead to swear by, but his share of brain must
reside in some other part of his skull.
The Frank Gardners have been entertaining
the Joseph Ward (of Maoriland) trio, at their
mansion in the Avenue Raphael, in Paris. At a
dinner the party drank the health of certain
Sydney residents whose flying machines and magic
carpets didn’t arrive in time to precipitate them
into the chairs set for them at the feast. It will
be difficult for the Wards to settle down again in
Wellington, where the heavens are mostly leak-
ing, after all this Parisian and Roman toasting, and
the sitting to meat with princes who hung their
crowns on the cruet before making a few simple
but first-class remarks. Australasia will seem
hodden hose to the Premieress, anyhow, when she
gets back to her little wooden city where the
wind bloweth where it listeth, and when it doesn’t
list it busts and is a cyclone.
Women graduates of Sydney University are
going to have a luncheon next Saturday at the
A.B.C. The browse will mark the inauguration
of a yearly re-union, and there will be some
speechmaking raised on the unsubstantial basis
of the cream puffs.
The motor car driven by an amateur may be a
little more or a little less dangerous than a wild
bull at large. It all depends on what the bull has
been drinking. Last week, a red (or pink or blue)
slayer, driven by a lady, jumped on to the foot-
path near one of the gates of Centennial Park,
and badly crushed a little boy who was playing
there. The escape of the child from instant
death was remarkable, for some of his curls were
cut off by the wheels, and the silky hair blew
around amongst his playmates. Report says
that, after the motor had taken the injured child
to the hospital, it knocked down another human,
and then tried to get into its garage by way of a
window. It is about time that all persons who
drive motors should show proof of skill before
license.
Miss Benjamin, the Maoriland shelicitor or
lawyeress or barristrix, is going to marry into her
own profession. The other person is Mr. de Costa,
one of the scaff of Findlay and Dalzell, Wellington.
The floral bracelet, for tethering the long glove,
has “come in” in Sydney. There were several
amongst the dressing of a recent first night. One
was of violets and brown leaves ; another of pink
rosebuds and green leaves, apparently sewn on to
elastic and tied with a tiny bow at the back of the
elbow.
’Cellist Gerard Vollmar was lured out of a sick
bed in a private hospital by the first concert of
the season, done by the Amateur Orchestral.
Amazingly energetic persons are musicians. If I
were lying moderately dead in a hospital I
wouldn’t disturb myself even to see a circus.
Marie Hall’s advance agent, Mr. A. E. Davies,
arrived by the Aorangi yesterday morning. One
of the Tait boys is here waiting for the Besses o’
the Barn, and replying to the question: “Are
they nice girls?”
Miss Helena Rubenstein, the Venus of Valaze, is
back from Maoriland, and adding to the crispness
of the autumn morning in a weirdly-bulged dyed
panama with a golden brown bird on it. Also she
is frocked in something checked, and piped with
green and violet.
Miss Doris Blomfield, only daughter of the
Andrew Blomfields, is engaged to Mr. Claude
Parbury, one of the rich young men of Syd-
ney. Parbury, Henty have bonded stores and
wharves which are unpicturesque things, but
money-making. The bride-elect is a pretty little
round-faced girl.
A Sydney girl, Miss Julia Walsh, only daughter
of Mr. E. T. Walsh, is going to marry Mr. C. H.
de Muralt. He is Australian representative of the
Youla Company (a wool concern) and can be
‘ ‘ agin the Government ” in five languages.
The Montefiore Home ball occurs on May 2.
Mayor and Mayoress of Sydney have promised
to be present. Mr. Harry Rickards and Miss
Rose Lyons will provide gallery attractions.
Hon Sec., Emilie Harris, Darlinghurst.
A post-card from artist Dattilo Rubbo tells
that he will be back here in June.
Miss Nance Maher, who was the soloist at the
Amateur Orchestral Society, has improved to
nearly skylark level since last season of the
society’s concerts. And she now knows how to
preen her plumage. Talking of singers, a man
who has been visiting Bendigo says that the first
night of his arrival he started a walk through the
town, but came to a halt after a few yards—
arrested by a voice, to which he listened enchanted.
When it stopped, he went on thinking—“ That’s
a voice for European consumption.” But pre-
sently he heard another as good as the first, and,
later, he hung over the palings to listen to a
third, as good as tbelormer two. Three beautiful
voices in as many miles. He went back to his
hotel murmuring that the supply was greater
than the demand, except for family consumption.
I saw a couple of artistic gowns within the last
week. One reminiscent of opals and pink coral
was worn by Mrs. Phil Mitchell at the reception
to the Northcotes. The Other, worn by one of
the J. T. Walker girls, was a tailor-made of cream
serge, with long coat done in cream-velvet facings
and braided with cream and gold.
Either personally or per medium of some indi-
vidual kept on hand to put advertising “guff” in
the mouth of prominent theatricals, that wise
widow, Elbert-Orton, has been saying beautiful
things about the Australian girl. Said girl hardly
knew how many good qualities she had till the
widow’s (letter appeared. The yam is a little over-
done, perhaps ; still, it is better business "for the
management’s tame scribe to put “guff” in the
mouth of the leading lady than for her to put her
own foot therein.
Miss Elbert-Orton may want a few more adver-
tisement pegs besides that she sent the D.T.
on which to hang herself. Here are a few. (1)
May a leading lady in a leading professional com-
pany be an amateur ? (2) Why have Australian
women huge feet? (3) Is death necessarily fatal ?
(4) Is a widow’s aim with the harpoon always
unerring? Let Miss Elbert-O. but hurl these
bombs into the daily press, and a frantic public
will do The rest, and Miss E.-O.’s name at the
exhaustion of the controversy will be known to
the reigning Ahkound of Swat.
_ Just here 16 bars rest to make a note of admira-
tion on Miss E.-O.’s green gown in “ Raffles.” It
seems to be green chiffon over white, with a broad
stole that steals from the front hem of the skirt
right up and over the shoulders and down to the
hem’at the back. The stole is embroidered in
gold. Only MisS E.-O.’s hairdressing prevents
her looking wholly artistic. She d'oes her hair
fairly low on the back of her head, which is very
foolish, as she has only an inch or so of neck.
The style gives an ungraceful heaviness in the
region of the conning-tower, and should only be
worn by the woman who is built on swan principles.
The Cohens were in evidence at - Tamworth
(N.S.W.) on the 10th, when Rabbi Cohen, brought
specially from the Chief Synagogue at Sydney,
united Rebecca Eden Cohen, youngest : daughter
of Nathan Cohen, to Bernard Cohen.,. The
ceremony tod.k place in the Alhambra Hall,’which
was transformed into a synagogue for the oticasion,
the crimson velvet canopy under which the
ceremony was performed having been brought
from Sydney. Cohens were groomsmen and
bridesmaids, and Mr. and Mrs. Cohen gave a
reception. I was Cohen to say something further
on this subject; but fear the opportunity is Kohn.
Ethel Turner sends some interesting travel
notes from England :
The tram and boat-travelling man has a grievance just
now against the .boat and tram-travelling woman. She
will wear a veil—not one of the modest tulle affairs
through which to peep coyly at him, hut long streamers
that fly banner-wise from behind her and float right into
the next compartment and burst around his face and
tickle his ears. I saw a man the other day—possibly
not a “ perfect gentleman,” but certainly he was a man,
and, take him for all in, all, I shall not look upon his
like again—make a protest. After enduring much
from 2Jyds. of pink chiffon flapping in his face and
smothering his book, and after swallowing part of the
Hying clo’, and coughing it up again, he rose deliberately,
tied the ends of the streamers to the nearest stanchion,
and then, amid a silence in which you could have heard a
cough drop, resumed his reading. There was no actual
applause at the intrepid act, but I saw an immeasurable
gratification in many a male eye. I had to get off before
the maiden discovered the perfidious action, but I have
no doubt that it “ learned her.”
I had another travelling experience. Man has become
an inordinately self-sufficient creature since the Govern-
ment decided to reserve a whole car, instead of a mere
compartment, in which he can burn dried vegetables.
Before that time he was merely a worm and knew it, but
to-day there is an intrepid bearing about him, and he
smokes the whole world in the face, and fears not any
woman.
The front car is the one reserved for him. But the
other day, like the leaders of the Light Brigade, someone
had blundered, and the big “Smoking ” notice was placed
on the second car. In came a crowded boat. Most of
the men noticed the changed cars, and went to the
second one. One woman also observed the change, and
got into the front car, and the rest followed her in the
usual sheepy fashion. Now, there was already estab-
lished in this ear a man who had just got his pipe com-
fortably alight. He put his hand up instinctively to
remove the article, and then I saw a subtle change come
o’er the spirit of his countenance, and instead he puffed
thoughtfully and deliberately. As plainly as if he had
poken aloud, I heard him say to himself: “ These
women must be taught a lesson.” And he puffed,
and he puffed, and he puffed, but, unlike the result in
the classical story of the Wolf and the Three Pigs, he
couldn’t blow their house in. The women really did nor
mind much. Most of them took it for granted that they
had got into the smoking-car by mistake, and accepted
the situation. One or two coughed k little ; one or two
glaired. But the man smoked steadily oil. I could see he
was riot really enjoying the smoke as a smoke. He
vtas conscientiously delivering ari object lesson to the
female sect. Then the conductor said “Next car’s
Smoking for this trip, sir.”
I never saw a limper man in my life. As with Prince
Hal, “Never hydra-headed wilfulness so soon did lose its
seat, and all at once, as in this man.” He had to be
gently assisted from the car, and I think he went home
in an ambulance.
My Brisbane correspondent writes :
This week has been one of grave anxiety for the “ FSte
Committee.” Despite all efforts to hush matters up, it is
evident that Lady Chelmsford will not be present to prop
up the fortunes of the Hospital Garden Fair. She is in bed,
and is forbidden interviews or letter writing, nor is she
allowed to put her foot to the ground. Her accommodat
ing husband has hurled himself into the breach, and wifi
the aid of “the Hon Joan” will open the Annul
Chrysanthemum and “Orkid” Show, and general!,
supervise.
On Saturday evening his Ex., with the guileful Brook'
in tow, presented the prizes at the Brisbane Technic;.
College, and discoursed upon Pitman and other Arts c.
which he has evidently little knowlegde. However, hr
words of cautious and non-committal wisdom wei
listened to with attention by the fossilised directorate an.
a few hundred students.
Brisbane this week has been one long, broad, riotou
streak of Monkey man. Their faces, so very like my ow
beloved bull-dog’s, have been visible all over the cit;.
They have asked endless questions, inspected the for
and naval equipment (the obsolete Gayundah and Palumi;
and been gushed over and made much of by the kir-
of woman whose poodle is dead and who must pour fort
her affections on something. .
Only three people, to my knowledge, showed suflncisi .
spine to make a stand against the sudden brown mai.
ness. His Ex. confined himself to official politeness ; -
man who holds a unique billet here absolutely refused tc
meet them ; and a common or garden little military fiaan
expressed himself as follows: “ Bah ! It makes me sicl.
to see these chaps who are being trained to make war upot
us slobbered over in this way. I’d like to hear their
private opinion of our sense and our w’omen.”
Otherwise, Admiral Tomahawk (that's, near enough;
and his ugly heroes had a gay time of it. First, they
called on the Governor, Commandant and Mayor. Then
they received a return visit from all three. Next, there
was a reception at the Queensland Club, where the cham-
pagne was so awful that the Admiral was forced to retire
to bed immediately afterwards, and allow his second m
command to do the honors at the shivoo at the United
Service Institute in the evening. Then came a trip over
the wheat-lands on the Downs, arranged, no doubt, to
show the visitors how very well worth taking Northern
Australia is. There was more slush and heroics at a
lunch en route ; and, finally, the Admiral’s At Home on
the flagship (decorated with paper flowers and other
gewgaws, which were afterwards presented to the guests).
It was to be so very exclusive, don’t yer know, that even
Mrs. Digby Denham wasn’t asked, because her husband
is no longer a Minister. Thus does Digby receive the first
instalment of his reward. And now the Japs have the
soundings of the river and the bay, as well as a, complete
, record of th e naval and military strength, in their pockets;
so every one is pleased.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHL.


X
w
1
V
\
A
>rj
'S:\llliili
r-.
Milllf
:i£S
*fc
*> I
»
W’
> V
// Hs
l \
m
l
/
Dunlop-
Kelly Tyres
Are Solid Tyres of Pure Rubber
that absorb all vibration on
Vehicles. Ensuring Comfort to
yourself and doubling the life of
your Vehicle. We fit Tyres in all
sizes to all classes of Vehicles—
- ranging from 5.5 a pain
Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth,
Brisbane and Christchurch. N.Z.
M/
&
m
31
m
iftn
ZXZZfI'-, ’I
M.RS
': 4 %.
"**U
(ioods
Represent the Highest Quality
of material and worktnauship in
Coif, Tennis, and Bat
Handle Grips,
Golf Balls,
Football and Punching
Ball Bladders,
Rubber Soles, Waders,
etc.
Obtainable all Leading Sports Depots.
Accept only "Dunlop Brand."
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
All States and N.Z.
RL,
ss-
'•K?'
o
4*
coanEx
>SOJIETttING • &VITE -NE,W*
IN
&
WORLDS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April 22, 1907.
Mt Dear Yahrie,—
What can have come to Rupert Clarke ? Opera
nights find him either a lonely listener or the
glum escort of a prim petticoat party. “The
Block ” knows him no longer, and on the race-
course he now appears more solitary than Pro-
metheus, who at least had his fowl for company.
Has the light gone out of his life? Has Ada
Ward converted him? Or have the responsibilities
of an adult daughter and a theatrical partnership
in conjunction wrecked his gaiety? The puzzle
himself goes off to England on dramatic business—
to select plays, and possibly players, for Meynell
and Gunn’s companies. Meanwhile, with true
managerial instinct, he hints at a “dark horse”
of astounding promise. She’s a Melbourne
brunette, and an amateur actress of much talent.
At the Orpheus Club concert, the Town Hall
was quite capable of holding comfortably those
who yearned to sample the quality of the society’s
new conductor, Frederic Beard. Latter, an
Englander of short Australian experience, had
seemingly, arranged his programme with an eye
to improving the masses. Music, heavenly maid,
instructed by Mr. Fred. Whiskers, was employed
as a missionary to inculcate in the Australian
sivage warmer sentiments towards the Throne.
First item was Elgar’s setting of “ Gor’save,”
sung by the club while the audience stood. Third
on the list came the “Tannhauser” chorus, which
cries with loyal voices, “Prince of Thuringia,
hail!” Fourth item was “Pomp and Circum-
stance,” containing a trio which, at King Ned’s
request, was embodied in Elgar’s Coronation Ode.
Said ode now arrived, and was followed by
Tschaikowsky’s “Overture Solonelle,” with its
cannons banging, military bands blaring and joy-
hells ringing for a Russian victory—an ill-timed
victory that wasn’t on the spot in Manchuria.
Mr. Tannhauser sings every second night to a
different Miss Venus. Sometimes it’s a rather
plump Venus. Then it’s a lengthy, angular
Venus, with bony arms. Is this a subtle mana-
gerial hint that the Venus is always a different
woman ?
It is rather a relief to find one or two of the
operas are to have a steady run “ on their own.”
First nights have been so plentiful that re-
hearsals have been few, and mechanical details
have consequently been rocky. It does not
add to the effect, during the mystic music
of the distant monkish march in “Tann-
hauser,” to suddenly see scene-shifters in
their prosaic shirt sleeves, moving about in the
clouds and azure abodes of the gods ; or, when
Venus is “wafted,” to see the strong arm of the
rope-holder who does the waft. Nobody should
be dragged to Heaven at the end of a rope.
These shatterings of the illusion were even more’
painful in “Hansel and Gretel,” where the herds
of angels were shepherded from the rear by
casual male mortals in bowler hats, who walked
stoopinglv behind the disconnected scenes under
the absurd impression that they were escaping
observation.
Secretary Williams, of the Bohemian Club,
was wedded to his Miss Taylor with much frill
and fuss last! week, and now they are happily
honeymooning. And all after a rushed engage-
ment of 16 years. Which reminds me of a case
I heard last week—there are others like it—of a
matured spinster who is waiting for the day when
she can relinquish her civil service salary in favor
of a pension ere she will lead her time-honored
suitor to the halter. Their engagement has
lasted 19 years, and is still quite strong and fresh.
Satirists are silenced by patient Diana’s philoso-
phy. “Courtship is cake, my dear,” she said to
a green girl friend ; “ you can’t eat your cake and
have it.” But doesn’t it get rather stale after a
quarter-century or so?
A very jolly Palotta wandered about town on
Wednesday—for one day only. From Tasmania
she went on to Geelong (of all places). Her com-
panion of all day was the wife of a popular
medicine-man, and Gossip, which had proclaimed
a deadly quarrel between these two, was com-
pelled to eat its words—a rather favorite meal for
Gossip. Hugh Ward, with a bevy of girls, tea-ed
in Paris Cafe, and showed the adoring trio the
newest things in tricks with a serviette. The
company then took the express for Sleepy Hollow.
Clarence Weber, the recently-wed strong man,
gave a muscular show at the Masonic on Thurs-
day. Matrimony has softened him to the sex,
evidently, for he issued a “ladies admitted”
notification. A number of enthusiastic Young
Things turned up, with Mamma in attendance.
(The memory of those fearfully naked Hacken-
schmidt posters drove the old lady forth in defence
of her offspring, despite the clamor of the weather,
which came down in sheets.) The girls were
edified by the sinuous grace of manly strength, as
expounded by the Weberian young men; and
they were delighted, too, by the wonderful “flesh
tones ” of Clarence’s knotty shoulders. Mr.
Weber’s exhibitions of polite athleticism offer a
new and exotic interest for winter entertainment.
He promised to repeat the entertainment on a
less rainy night.
To vie Mueller, who now assumes the saner name
“f Erna, and miniaturist Bess Norris, flat together
in Babylon-by-the-Thames, where they have a
domicile in South Kensington. Both lasses
enjoy some measure of success. Miss Mueller
scores sundry fees for singing to society, while
Bess paints expensive psychological portraits of
city magnates and soulful matrons.
Mr. Tom Fogarty, of the vividly green firm of
logarty, Doyle, this week took to wife Miss Rose
.Starr, who has bloomed for a couple of years past
as a representative Australian beauty. St.
•Joseph’s Church, South Yarra, was the setting of
the ring-giving act, with following festivities at
the Starr abode. The bridegroom was a foot-
baller of some importance, beside being an
athlete of distinction.
The Age lately turned ribald attention to the
fat woman, in a flippant sub-leader. Her vanity,
and the price she pays to allay its pangs, were
talked of at great length, but with little know-
ledge. The Age also stated—what was mostly
known before—that the necessity for expensive
skm-tinkering most often arises from a disordered
.nterior, but it didn’t tell us how to tidy up the
interior, so we remain where we were. The paper
called the pulling in of the waist and the puffing
of a buzzom by artificial means, a comedy, whereas
if the writer had tried them he would have dis-
covered that they are much more like a tragedy.
If the Age had hired a well-known solicitor to
write that article, his views on the corset would
have been interesting.
They get over the ground in the Holy City
pretty quickly once they start. Somebody who
has just been attending a swagger Adelaide meet-
ing tells me of a dream in white on horseback.
She rode astride in a white divided skirt, a white
sacque coat, white sun helmet, and white leather
gloves. She’s a good all-round horsewoman, and
quite deserved the bit of sensation she created.
When we feel real plucky in Melbourne we ride
astride in sober black, generally early in the
morning; but the mental picture of that Amazon
of the Holy City should excite a spirit of emula-
tion.
In Mrs. Willemmie Robb’s book of aphorisms
there is at least one that looks bright and sounds
original. “The nearer and dearer the friend,
the bettershe can bump you.” But the foolish-
ness of most of them is only exceeded by their
femininity, as f’rinstance : “ Women are born on a
hard wicket when they come into this world. To
merely live they must either inherit money, work
for it—or marry!” The first sentence suggests
that Mrs. Robb might have been born on a soft
wicket if she hadn’t come into this world. The
w’ord “either” is ungrammatical in its reference
to three different means of living. As for the
statement of ways and means, it applies to both
sexes, but the aphoriste ignores the fact that
sympathy for the goose should be sympathy for
the gander. Truly, women are the un-fair sex.
They want all the human pity for themselves.
Castlemaine has not yet ceased to marvel at the
story of the Broken Wedding, for there is so
little else to talk about in Castlemaine. The
bride-elect was a local girl, and the man of her
choice—a bank manager in Melbourne—was her
brother’s brother-in-law. One naturally uses
the past tense when speaking of a cancelled con-
tract. The bridal gown was completed, the cake
ready, the presents were on view. On Good Friday
evening he arrived from Melbourne at the resi-
dence of the girl’s parents, and two hours later he
went away—a disengaged banker. The wedding
presents went back to the donors, with the ex-
planation that the match was off “by mutual
agreement,” and everybody had a lot to say
about the matter except the persons chiefly in-
terested, who say nothing.
St. Thomas’ Church, Essendon, broke into
wedding bells and triumphal arches of white
chrysanthemums and greenery on Wednesday
(April 17th), the chief conspirators being Miss
King and Harry Martin, a cheery, chirpy member
of Melbourne Stock Exchange.
One of Mrs. Rupert Clarke’s cousins, Miss
Dowling, of Hawthorn, got married t'other day to
a Pillar of the Kirk who has found the manufac-
ture of men’s clothing lucrative. It must be easier
for a camel to squeeze through the eye of a needle
than for a rich tailor to sincerely regret that Adam
fell and took to trouserings.
Pa Castles, a short, grey patriarch languishing
with his wife and younger children in Australia,
has taken to singing practice more than ever. His
neighbors at Camberwell are glad to hear the per-
sistent, rumor that if the old man gets on well
with his melody, Amy’s influence may procure him
a small part in opera in Britain. Some of
them wouldn’t mind if he got a small part in
Abyssinia so long as he got a part. Pa Castles is
a persistent practiser.
Those Miss Medicos who earn degrees at our
University have no lack of opportunity to com-
plain about, though they most often-find a profit-
able field for their labors in other States. Only
the other day Gertrude Halley, M. 8., was ap-
pointed as an infant-life preserver for Tassy, and
now Laura Weir, M.D., goes to guide the medical
staff of Springsure Hospital (Q.). Dr. Laura is a
comely daughter of Graham Weir, who is respon-
sible for an anthology of Australian verse, collected
very early, when there wasn’t much verse to collect.
Last week’s list of departers included the Cyril
Landales, the Andrew Chirnsides, and some of
the J. M. Bruce family, and this week’s contribu-
tion will have among them Dr. Douglas Cook and
his bride, a whole family of Sprys, and young
Prank Ham.
Grade Grahame, of the Opera House, thought
of joining in the journalistic war against Ada
Ward (Gracie dabbles in magazine writing when
she’s not fishing), but thinks now she’ll interview
the lady instead. “I might get some hints,” she
says. “No one ever took me to Monte Carlo.
I’d like to know how she managed. As for
champagne suppers, any old thing—on the stage
or off—can have them.”
Mrs. George Box has entered the ranks of
women grafters under a flowing banner of chintz
and damask. For years the smart sister-in-law
of the legal strong Box gave society excellent
advice on matters pertaining to house decora-
tions gratis. She’s going to charge for it
now. A swagger firm has secured her, and the
good old “long wash of Australian seas” is
the only boundary of her sphere of action.
Already she has done great execution in the Holy
City. In Victoria, the Western District has
cordially invited her to walk into its parlor, and
altogether our amateur expert seems to have
struck a patch. It’s quite a usual thing for reaily-
trulies in the Cold Country to combine business
with pleasure. They go to toney house parties,
see what’s wanted, make suggestions—and the
shops subsequently pay with gratitude a sizable
commission on all orders booked. Mrs. Box
doesn’t do any mixing—she’s business when she’s
business, and 26-carat society in the intervals.
A hard-headed lady in the dress-building trade,
with a plump banking account of her own, is the
heroine of a romance. Her knight-errant, a pink
and white young man of considerable local im-
portance, had left her lamenting. She appar-
ently drowned her sorrow in the flowing chiffon,
and avenged herself on mankind by making him
pay huge bills for the garb of his womenfolk.
The defaulter, who happens to have money to
burn, was laid low in London, and, scared at the
prospect of a separation, presumably telegraphed
his woe to the girl he left behind him. Anyway,
she packed her little bag, and made a dash for the
hub of the universe. She arrived there on a
Saturday, and stroked his fevered brow in the
private hospital till the following Friday, when
her boat left for Australia. She didn’t even do
the shops, or look in at the theatres, and was
back booking orders almost before she was missed.
The chances are all in favor of an awfully smartly-
dressed wedding between this and Christmas.
Princes Court —poor deserted place with its
skeleton chute —was wakened to wild carnival
again, on Saturday, for “’Varsity night.” Students
took possession of the town from about seven
o’clock, and marched and roared and “sang”
their way to the huge playground. A special
little digression was made into Oollins-street to
bellow outside King David’s castle (the Age had
been so very plain-spoken about the Com-
mencement day banalities and follies), and the
hoodlums further gave vent to their injured feel-
ings by burning: “David” in effigy in the electric
glare of the Court. These “children of larger
growth ” have a natural objection to an adult man
with a full-size brain box fitted with real grey
matter.
The National i.cse Show in the Town Hall on
Friday had roses only. A dahlia show often
means begonias, and a daffodil show means any-
anything except cauliflower. But here, with
great bankings of autumn foliage, every bloom
was a rose. The roses ran riot. One long arm,
the length of the hall, was banked with them ; a
stand blazed with color nearly to the electric
lights. It was the greatest rose show Melbourne
has had for a long time.
The Show had quite a dose of Lord Mayor for
the opening ceremony. Weedon spoke a pretty
little speech, and then introduced Henry Knight,
ex-Lord Mayor of London (don’t know how ex),
who made a beaming speech about the bloomin’
roses, and the bloomin’ women of Victoria, and
the bond of the rose, the national ’ome flower.
“ H’s ” bounced all over the place.
Artist Streeton had an exciting time last week.
Cards had been sent out for a private view of his
work at the Athenaeum on Friday. There was
bother about the hall at the last gasp—fuss was
about Streeton’s pet screens of pale hessian. The
management thought they might “ mark the
walls.” A worried Streeton cancelled doings
with the Athenaeum, and descended on
Zion’s Temple—one-time Hibernian Hall.
Postponement cards went out—but in the frantic
rush some names were overlooked; so a scattering
of sociably-inclined viewers turned up to find
pictures on the floor, and a galvanic Streeton,
with the points of beard and moustaches curled
up tightly with excitement, directing “ hangers.”
It was a fine view. Visitors did a step
dance over the out-spread sketches, and
bent over sudden snatches of color on the floor.
Next day all was well, and Streeton, beaming
(though in a state of collapse), made a perfect
host. “ Hanging the wretched things till eleven
last night,” he whispered sepulchrally—“l’d
rather paint two than hang one. I’m done for—
quite done!”
A recent penniless “December” wedding re-
minds me of something funny that happened up
Beech worth way once. In this case the Decembers
were both wealthy, and both had families large
enough to raise Cain when they saw the old people
contemplating a long-delayed nest. Both were
benevolent, both were generous, and each knew
the other as sufficiently true-hearted to need no
golden bait. So each dear old soul went off, un-
beknownst to the other, to his or her solicitor, and
allayed the families’ fears with solid coin. It
wasn’t till after the ceremony that each discovered
the other to be financially cleaned out. The
families, however, did the square, or, at least,
the oblong thing, and the pair lived happily ever
after, but the sudden shock made a perfect hash
of the honeymoon.
Percy Grainger’s mamma and other well-
informed people send glowing accounts of the
beautiful young man’s present success, future
prospects, and immense improvement. Percy
lately played at a couple of concerts given by the
London Philharmonic Society. In a notable pro-
gramme his performances attracted particular
attention and praise from all critics. Nowadays,
the prodigy is much more virile in both method
and conception, without losing a whit of his
poetic charm. Also, he commands the fraternal
admiration of the great Greig as an orchestral
conductor and composer.
“ Rosna ” writes from Adelaide
Adelaide caught its annual society wedding last week
—the Saunders-Crozier union. It befell at Christ Church,
North Adelaide, and was a “ Hunt ” wedding. That is
to say, the men who ride after the uneatable came out in
their passementerie, blew a feeble blast on a horn, and
sat in a scarlet body during the ceremony. Otherwise 1
didn’t see much “ hunt ” about it. The bride was run to
earth at the right moment in a garment of ivorv satin
bestrewn with gorgeous rose-point lace, and it didn’t re-
quire a bloodhound to find the clergyman. The decora-
tions were scarcely as intense as most people expected—a
solid-looking wedding-bell and a few festoons. The guests,
as usual, were “ numerous and costly.” The brides-
maids, Misses Alison and Ruby Crozier, wore pale-blue
frocks, with miles of dainty blonde lace sprinkled on
them, and large black headpieces. Two small M’Millan
kiddies, also pale-blue and be-plumed, did cartage duty
with the bridal train. Among the guests, the most
glorious frills were sported by a bride of last year, Mrs.
Herbert Rymill. The two youthful Rymill dames are
among the minority who don’t wear the same frock all
the year round and expect it to be described in different
words every time. Chief Justicess Way, Mrs. Harry A\ ers,
Mrs. and Miss Baker, the Melrose folk, Mrs. Dave Fuiton,’
and several hundred other exalted beings decorated the
proceedings. The Croziers squat somewhere in the wilds
of the river Murray.
The Himalaya took away to Britain’s Isle the Charles
Wilcox clan, sharebroker A. J. Roberts, and the Edwin
Smiths. The last-named are among the few generous
Crow-eaters who do not cast their shekels abroad to the
accompaniment of a fanfare of trumpets, or a brass band,
or a tom-tom. They help most deserving objects in a
quiet way, and they are said to have left a cheque with
some competent and honest individual to continue these
beneficences what time they are looking up Edward the
King.
Society rushed the Comic Opera season with such vio.
lence that the show had to be prolonged. The rush almost
makes one believe there is room for the new theatre
that enthusiastic persons are always talking about. But
as soon as Adelaide begins to be hopeful about it, its one
little ewe playhouse shuts up for three months through
lack of support, and then the subject of a new and im-
posing edifice drops with a desolated thud. It looks as
though Adelaide would be a one-theatre town to the end
of the chapter.
The Le Hunte is an elusive being, and nowadays we are
never sure whether we’re being governed or merely
lieutenant-governed. The Ex. came home from a cruise
the other day ; went to Onkaparinga ; tried to open the
skating- club season (but when he got there the ice-rink
was bare, and there was no one to raise the loud hooray
of welcome except the gatekeeper, who had no voice,
so his Ex. went home again, and was offended). Then he
went to the Polo match, and finally fled on board the
Dutton yacht again, and sailed for Sydney. By the time
this reaches you he will be consorting with the Governor-
General, and the Dutton yacht will be on the raging deep
going towards Japan. Meantime, the vice-regal footmen
snore at their post; Chief Way grasps the reins of
Government spasmodically ; and sassiety grumbles, and
suggests the advisability of turning the Residence into a
home for decayed tram-horses.
News comes from Britain that Ethel Handke, an Ade-
laide warbler, exported a year or two ago to the Royal
Academy of Music, has been appointed a sub-professor of
her noisy art at that institution. Another Tortoise Town
nightingale, Muriel Cheek, a damsel still in her teens, has
captured the singing championship at the Launceston
competitions. These may be small matters, but all the
same Adelaide feels good over them.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artiitic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PHOTOS
FROM LIFE for lovers of
beauty and chic. Illustrated
•catalogue with 4S samples
and 3 fine cabinets or
stereos, all exquisitely finished French work, 5/-. Fine
assortments, 10/- and 20/-, money order on London.
State wishes. Full.satisfaction guaranteed.
R. GENNERT, 89C. FBG St. Martin, Paris, France
PiS
GrO TO UELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 15/-
Double, 20/■
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discpmfort of springs.
' We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp'. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ A SUGGESTION OF HORROR ” WITH
A NATIONAL SIGNIFICANCE.
During the past few days a good many inquiries have
been made as to what has become of Premier's statuette,
“ Gorilla and Woman," which was recently presented to
that National Art Gallery by the sculptor, and "which
used to stand at the entrance of the Stawell Gallery. On
inquiry, it appears that the trustees, though they had
previously inspected it, have now become somewhat
doubtful gs to whether the subject, with its suggestion of
horror, is altogether a suitable one for exhibition in a
public gallery. It has been withdrawn,-therefore, and
placed temporarily in the board-room, where anybody
desiring to do so may see it. What will be done
with it ultimately has not yet been decided, but the
matter will in all probability be dealt with at the next
meeting of the trustees.— Argus.
Sydney Daily Telegraph the other day
said this: —
Byit it may be doubted whether the true mission of the
colonial Premiers is to shout “ view holloas” to the
Jingoistic pack in Great Britain.
Shades of the Boer War! Ashes of the farm-
burners! “Jingoistic pack in Great Britain”
indeed! And from the Telegraph— the most
virulent and .loud-voiced Jingo of a(l those who
sooled young Australians on to the Transvaal, to
destroy a people’s independence, to sacrifice the
infant life of a Republic, to fire farms and uproot
vineyards and orchards! Well, “ Jingoistic
pack ” is a good remark to lay by for future use.
Somebody else may want us to help that pack to
get Chinese coolie slaves some day. f
The South Brisbane electors don’t seem
to care how they insult Bouchard, the individual
who abandoned Kidston, and vvandered into the
Fat and Borrowing camp of ex-Premier Philp.
At his meeting on the 6th they called him (1) a
•traitor, (2) a rat, (3) a smoodger, (4) a fraud, (5) a
twicer, (6) a cocktail, and, worst of all, (7) a
George Reid—of course in a strictly political sense.
“Jones”: Like the Gough electorate, in
N.S. Wales, the Carnarvon electorate, in Queens-
land, has its host of candidates. With the sitting
member, Barton, there are Donald Gunn and
Edgar Greenup, who run in the Fat and Borrowing
interest. There will also be a Socialism-in-our-
time man, probably Mat Reid or Bowman.
Donald Gunn and Edgar Greenup squat. Barton,
the Kidstonite, is a storekeeper of Stanthorpe,
and represents the party which took off the poll-
tax, and reduced the public debt a little.
Premier Joseph Carruthers, of N.S.W.,
Shows surprising ignorance at times. When
heckled by a deputation which suggested meekly
enough that a better .site than Observatory Hill
be found for the Sydney Mint, he retorted that
there was every chance, if N.S.W. was not civil,
of the Imperial- Government transferring the
Sydney branch of the Mint to Westralia with the
advantage of being near the chief source of gold
production. Carruthers didn’t know that Westralia
already has its branch of the Mint.
K. W. Duncan, who has won the late
W. P. Cummins’ seat in the S. Aus. Assembly, is
a poor Liberal ; and the Liberals of the district
wouldn’t have helped to put him in had not
the Laborite squeezed out the really Liberal
candidate who wanted to run. The Labor
party insisted, however, on running a man, though
it hadn’t held the seat before ; so Duncan won on
a shandy-gaff policy. The result ought to be a
warning" to the Labor party. Its selfishness has
simply driven many advanced Liberals into what
may in the end be the straight-out Opposition
camp.
The Queensland licensing law is an
amazing institution, which allows licensing courts
to be packed by Js.P. ; and most people know
the sort of man that used to be made a J.P. in
Queensland. The other day the North Brisbane
Bench, consisting of a police magistrate and
sixteen honorariums, decided by a majority (it is
alleged that the majority didn’t include the P.M.)
to grant a renewal of his license to a hotelkeeper
who had lately been convicted of keeping for sale
liquor with sufficient nicotine in it to kill even a
J.P. What does a North Brisbane J.P. think a
publican ought to do to justify a Bench in ruling
liim out ?
The remarkable discovery has just been
made in S. Australia that clerks of district
councils can’t be charged with embezzling their
bosses’ money. The most they can be charged
with is larceny ; and the maximum differ-
ence between larceny and embezzlement is
six years— the stretch that lies between
two years and eight. One clerk, charged the
other day with embezzlement, was, by direction
of the Judge, acquitted on the ground that it. was
a. charge that couldn’t lie under the Local Govern-
ment Act. Yet S. Australia has a Leg. Council,
and the Register talks quite a lot about its
“ Chamber of Review ” and the check it is upon
hasty and ill-considered legislation.
It would seem that as long as the Federal
capital can be fixed in any -place which isn’t the
one that the Australian Parliament prefers, it
doesn’t matter much to the grumbling Sydney
dailies what place it is. Canberra is rather a
favorite just now with the Sydney morning papers
and Premier.Carruthers. It is situated about 230
miles from Sydney, so it is almost as remote as f
Dalgety; it is in the'same direction as Dalgety ;
and it doesn’t at all "answer the alleged condition
of being “as ne&r as possible to the. 100-miles
limit from Sydney.” The only visible reason
why it should be preferred to Dalgety is that it is
situated on a shabby little trickle of water instead
of a fine river. So Joey Carruthers “ draws
attention to Canberra.”
Bananaland farmers, who have felt the
teeth of the foreign machinery shark, begin to
scent an enemy worse than the land-tax. Last
season, foreign harvesters were pressed on to
them by plausible agents, who assured Farmer
Cow-whacker that the sailing was plain. But the
harvest in many districts jwas a failure, so the
instalments conldn’t be kept up regularly. Then
Mr. Agricultural Cockatoo discovered that the
signing of a machinery loan agreement with a
foreign firm was more than a matter of form.
The agents turned up, sold the implements in
many cases, pocketed all the proceeds, even when
more than enough was realised, to meet the total
remaining debt, and then proceeded to recover on
the unpaid promissory notes ! G. Reid ought to
go up into those parts now and talk about the
blessings of Freetrade and the advantage of re-
lying on the foreign manufacturer. He would
find it exciting.
QUITE SAFE.
Lee Hum had
advised him to
get a black
woolly water
dog, cook it,
and eat portion
of it, and to
push some salt
into the nos-
trils of a cow,
and then rub it
on his lip-
“ Not you, not
doggy, You
ain't black
nor woolly
an', thank
Heaven, you was never fond o' water.”
About the last possibility in the way of
Philp’s muddlement was when he endorsed the
candidature, in the Fat and Borrowing interest,
of a Salv’army dodger who objects to footbsffl on
Sunday—endorsed him for Gympie, of all places.
Queensland goldfields are godless places as regards
their Sunday football.
A CONFIRMED DRINKER.
“Short of abandoning Freetrade, which is. vital to
Great (Britain as oxygen to human life," the Daily
.Chronicle says, “there is no sacrifice we would not
gladly make.”
“ It’s no use talkin', it's a 'abit, and I finds it
ard to leave it off at my time of life. Be-
sides, I take it for the spazzums.”
Mat Reid, president of the recent Labor
Convention- at .Rockhampton, once addressed a
meeting at Beenleigh (Q.), where almost every-
body comes from ' Fatherland. The meeting
selected a German farmer as chairman and Hans
walked up with his hat on, smoking a pipe that
looked like a section of a cabbage-tree palm, and
introduced Mat:
. S’hentlemans ! You vas all know me, and you vas all
knows evervbodieS that vas here, and everybodies that
vas away. You see dis man here (indicating- Reid by
pointing the palm tree pipe at him) I tinks his name vas
Mat Reid ! He vas von of dem plurry labor alligators,
and he vas come here to tell us all about some dings we
vas not know pefore be comes here, and before he vas
done you vill know, by Shingo, dat no matter vatever it
vas dat dese here labor alligators (agitators !) vas some
plurry shmart coves dat knows close up so much as nie
and you. so now I tells Mat Reid to sphout avay like
plazes ! (Terrific applause.)
And Mat Reid had hardly strength enough to
stand upright, for he never had a chairman like
that before, and it was too much for him.
Premier Bfent’s land policy is already
showing its logical results in Victoria. A few
estates have been and are being broken
up and settled, but their purchase at
exorbitant prices has merely helped
to boom the price of farming lands ;
consequently small farmers all over
the State are able to sell their
£1500 or £1000 worth of soil at a
figure . they never expected to
realise, in order .to take up cheaper
country in Queensland. Thirty
such left Gippsland lately, while
early this month .70 were escorted
from different .localities to in-
spect the Darling Downs, with
a view to settling there. There
is no profit to Australia in all
this; nor is there one iota of
advantage in raising land-
values even by 1000 per cent.,
since it doesn’t add one bushel
to the wheat-yield. All it does
is. to make it harder for the
farmer to make a living. “ Closer settlement ”
without an adequate disruptive land-tax is partly
a farce and partly a nightmare.
Wonderful are the devious ways whereby
everything gets back to the bogus Ma State
grievance. N.S. W. Premier Carruthers won’t let
the Australian Parliament acquire the Observa-
tory site out of sheer cussedness. To make sure
that Australia won’t get it, he proposes to hand
over the most beautiful spot in Sydney to the
British Government, so that it may build a fac-
tory thereon. And when his cranky scheme is
objected to, he invents a dreadful bogey to the
effect that the British authorities may close the
Mint altogether, unless, they are allowed to shift
it from its present location to the finest site in
Sydney, and if that happened, the only Mint on
this side of Australia would be at Melbourne, and
the shame of it would bring the hair of Ma State
down with horror to the cemetery. And the
humorous part of the case is that the British
authorities are quite content with the present
Mint, and have never asked to be shifted, or
threatened to close up unless they got a new site.
An obscurity named Clarke, moaning over
the grievous wrongs of Battered Ma State, gets
this off his chest in a Sydney daily paper on the
subject of the capital:—
. Dalgety once conceded, it follows that Twofold Bay
must go also as the port of the Federal capital, with the
concomitant expenditure of large sums of money to make
it a secure harbor, to be used to the detriment of Sydney,
and the glorification of Melbourne.
How Melbourne will be “glorified” any
more than Sydney, or how Sydney will be
injured any more than Melbourne, through
Australia being supplied with another fine port
in N.S.W., and an empty bay being turned into a
splendid national asset, this raving Clarke person
doesn’t say, and a prize of 3s. fid. is hereby
offered for a coherent explanation of the case,
Surely it is time N.S.W. built a special lunatic
asylum for the treatment of that strange mental
disease which sees in everything that happens or
doesn’t happen a scheme to steal something from
Sydney and give it to Melbourne.
Both the Age .and the Akgus have been
devoting scare-headings lately to the departure
of bands of faririers f6r N.S.W.-and Queensland.
Both papers implore the Government earnestly to
“do something.” But neither journal has any
practical suggestion to make. "During the past
three years, owing partly to the good seasons, and
partly to the Government buying,.land has been
steadily rising in value. Yet Victoria, with a
population'of a little over a million (including
children who don’t even stand on the land yet),
has a surface of some 83,000 square miles. And,
out of this million or- so of population, more
than half is crowded into the big ci.ties, and
doesn’t occupy more than a dozen square miles
altogether. There is thus the curious spectacle
of a great semi-vacant interior, from which
farmers are running away to look for land. A
Federal graduated land-tax of some tonnage i
the only cure. .
The British) Colonial Secretary has hit
upon one of the great truths of his job—that when
this Commonwealth interviews the outside world
nowadays, and for all future days, its different
States must be regarded - as being in the position
of the marriageable damsel’s little brothers what
time the eligible young man calls round. They
are not wanted, redundant. Their part is to go
away and play. It would have been hard to put
this wholesome and common-sense doctrine in
much plainer terms than did the Colonial Secre-
tary in his recent despatch to the State Premiers
on the subject of their proposed visit to London.
■ The hall-mark of the document’s successful pre-
sentment of the case was best supplied by the
anguished yelp which proceeded from that extra-
ordinarily depressed person, J. H. Carruthers,
when he grasped the exact purport of the message.
His grief at the ruin hovering over the Ma State
-as a result of its Premier being cheated out of the
“right” to go to London had all the dismal
atmosphere of a squalid suburban tragedy. The
Sydney Telegraph's phrase— “A Disgusted
Premier ’’-—was miserably inadequate as a de-
scription of his condition. But Joseph, or some
future holder of Joseph’s office, will in time get
used to it. The Premiers of Ottawa and Quebec
and Manitoba used to" feel that Way, doubtless,
too. But now they recognise the consequences of
Federation. Even the deeply injured Ma State
will come to the same wisdom some day.
UNION IS STRENGTH.
Ada Ward includes parsons as well as ballet girls in her
denunciation of the stage.
PARSON : “O come, let us roar together, and
p'raps she’ll drop it.”
Queensland Government has just pub-
lished figures which show that during the present
•year—three months—no less than 1500 men have
called at the Lands Office to inquire for land
denied them in the three southern States. A
large proportion settled down at once, and have
either taken their families to their new homes, or
are preparing to do so.
The tenders received by the Minister for Lands
for clearing the Pilliga Scrub Lands near Narrabri West
having proved unsatisfactory, Mr. Ashton has decided to
refuse the tenders lodged and call for fresh ones with some
modification of the original conditions. A notice giving
particulars appears in our advertising columns. The
tenders now called for will close with the Minister for
Lands on Ist May, 1907.*
On the 12th inst. a most interesting exhibition
was given at Grantham Farm, Seven Hills, with the
Austin Road Grader. The machine started on a piece of
hard, plain ground, and inside of 2hrs. had formed over
2§ chains of road, which was admitted by all present to be
more uniform and with a better surface than could be
done by hand, but in about one-eighth of the time.
During the forenoon about 10 chains of drain were cut
with the same machine, the ground being thrown on both
sides, the top having a width of about Bft. and the bottom
about Ift. This 10 chains was cut out in l£hr. Every-
one expressed themselves delighted with the work per-
formed by the Austin Road Grader, and it is expected
that shortly some of the Shires will commence the forma-
tion of their roads with these machines.. The proceedings
were conducted by Messrs. James Martin and Co., of 161
Clarence-street, who are agents for the machine, and who
.invite enquiries from Councillors in any part of the State
to send for information relating to this road grader.
THE BEST TYPE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The great majority of University men are Britishers
of the best type, and they objected strongly to Mr. Keir
Hardie’s visit to Cambridge. After a tremendous uproar,
and a bombardment with oranges, lump sugar, sulphur-
etted hydrogen, and sulphate of ammonia, he did gain a
reluctant hearing for about fifteen minutes, but this was
accorded him out of respect for a clergyman who agts as
senior proctor to the University, and who made an appeal
on his behalf. After the lapse of this short interval the
din was resumed, and, fearing that the platform would
be rushed, the chairman abruptly closed the meeting.
The Labor leader was led out through aback door, and
as his friends had got wind of a scheme for'“ ragging”
him, they turned him off at top speed to the local railway
statiori.— Daily paper, .
It was at a public meeting,
And the splendid Englishmen
Spoke with sulphate of ammonia,
Sulphuretted hydrogen.
I saw the speaker dimly,
Through a miasmal mirage ;
The quip and quirk of wattle beans,
The guano’s persiflage.
We spoke on metaphysics,
And current politics;
On the Allies who are Triple,
And the Opposition’s tricks ;
And those splendid, brainy Britons, ,
When I had them caught and peut,
With assault of lights and liver,
They upset my argument. ,
On the night of Powell’s victory
(Remember Mafeking!)
How those splendid, cold, strong Britons \
Made the poor old welkin ring ;
Showing plainly their descent from
That old island o’er the sea,
When they threw some lighted fireworks
On the-ladies’ lingerie,
Dear old England !—splendid British !
And your heads cold, thick and fat!
With whom the height of humor
Is to sit upon a hat ;
How you argue matters calmly',
With some liver and some tripe!
Good old Hooligans and bounders,
Of the best old British type !
vie.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE RAILINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sydney City Council has decided to remove the rail
ings from the Park in Wynyard Square.— News Item
The City Council’s going to shift
The railings from the Park ;
, - It’s going to light each little rift
Where spoony couples lark.
In spite of Tory wailings
Of the horrors that will flow
From the park (that has no railings
They have got the word to go.
The rail around a beauty spot
Is but a trivial one
To that eternal rail at what
The Commonwealth has done,
Because we can’t go sailing
In our dear old Freefcrade groove—
That’s the cheapest sort of railing,
And the one we’ve got to move.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACOGREGOR.


THe
Callaghan”
For
Boot
' i ■ I ” 1 ■; . '
Ladies.
13/6
This is
an
acstual
Photo
of the
Boot
itself.
How
do you
liKe
it?
>toufc Glace Kid, pointed and medium round toes, wide soles, sensible 1
walking heels—a good-looking, long-wearing boot ... ... ... -
Post Free all over the Commonwealth. J
14/3
YOUR BOOT. BILLS will never be Less
y° u try Callaghan Boots and Shoes.
CALLAGHAN & SON, 395 George St., Sydney.
-Send For Our J'ost Free Style Book.
m
■
lii
# m
lIS
SIGNOR MARCONI,
Chief Experimentalist for
the Columbia Phono-
graph Co.
A FAMOUS
INVENTOR.
AND
A FAMOUS
INVENTION
Keep a watch on “ Columbia ” for
something startling, and secure the
Agency for your District NOW.
Write—
nr r II' i . i
r
The
Columbia
GRAPHo phone
COLUMBIA PHONOCRAPH CO. Cen’l.
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
■Malthoid Dampcourse
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not."— Marccs Aurelius.
A DAMPCOURSE must answer all the known tests in pressure as
well as perfect resistance against moisture. You want one THAT
CANNOT FAIL, and since MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE has undergone
all tests possible, and comes out triumphant, it is assuredly the
one to use.
BOOKLET, GIVING PULL INFORMATION, POST FREE.
'(tint
Refiners and Sole
Manufacturers,
San Francisco, and 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Established ISB4.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
Jf- S. -FRIEND & 00. HOLDSWORTH, MauPHERSQN & CO.
G. E. CRANE & SONS. JAMES SANDY & CO. ,
WILLIAM BALDWIN, Australasian Representative,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
8 DIFFERENT ARTICLES FOR SHAVERS—
Send 10s. 6d. for our complete Shaving
Outfit. We are selling a great number of
them. The Outfit comprises everything a
shaver wants, and gives it to him a't a price
fully 33 per cent, lower than elsewhere.
lOs. 6d.
10/6 POST FREE.
SHAVING OUTFIT,
SHAVING OUTFIT,
SHAVING OUTFIT,
SHAVING OUTFIT,
SHAVING OUTFIT,
10/6.
10/6.
10/6.
10/6.
10/6.
1 GOOD RAZOR
1 STICK SHAVING SOAP
1 SHAVING MUG
1 RAZOR STROP
1 SHAVING BRUSH
1 STOP BLOOD STICK.
1 PKT. RAZOR PASTE.
1 BOTTLE BAY RUM
POST FREE 10/6, MONEY BACK IF YOU’RE NOT PLEASED.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George=street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
THE “LOUIS’’ VELVETEEN.
An Ideal Fabric for Outdoor and “At Home” Wear.
As rich in appearance as Lyons Silk Velvet costing a Guineaa yard, and wears longer.
the new “LOUIS CHIFFON VEL DUVET
is one of the most fashionable PILE FABRICS for entire Costumes manufactured
for the present Season. Nothing else has such lustre of finish, such sheen and
sherd'e 01 ' 6 ' ant * n ° °** ler fabric yet produced shows such varying play of
A he “ Louis’’Velveteen, and the “Louis” Chiffon Vel Duvet, is
fcif*** 1 The name spelled L-O-U-l-s and guarantee of wear, and Ladies
should insist on seeing this and thus avoid the substitution of inferior imitations.
From Drapers & Silk Mercers throughout the Colonies.
AT LAST!!
A Standard Typewriter »t a
m ■
5* S
•;.r
*
X
\
■ - .•—y..
V
THE
BRITON
Reasonable Price.
Ball Bearing Carriage.
Universal Interchangeable Keyboard,
UNLIMITED SPEED.
PERFECTED RIBBON.
STEEL TYPE.
Powerful Manifolder
and Stencil Cutter.
LIGHT TOUCH.
PORTABLE.
Built for
Hard
Work.
Warranted to do
the same work for
the same period as any
other High-Grade Machine.
Our “Direct Drivo” Jointless Type Bar
(TYPE)
Is an exclusive patent and eaves 1200 parts
and over £l2.
NOW YOU NEED NOT APOLOGISE for the peculiarities
of your handwriting.
GET A BRITON, and your letters, accounts or reports will go forth and
be received on even terms of dignity with any the postman carries.
IT WILL PAY for itself many times over in prestige, time saved, mis-
understandings avoided, and as a business getter.
YOU CAN LEARN to use it in an hour easily, and become proficient
in a week without an instructor. ’ ' ■
Write To-dav
for particulars of our Free Trial
offer. All our literature is Free.
Southern Sales Coy
6 DAL.LET STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 7 GRRY ST. WELLINGTON, N.Z.


MOTA (SHELL) BRAND
MOTOR. CAR SPIRITS.
Used by the winners of the Dunlop Cup, the Gar-
land Oup, “ Mota ” Trophy, “Australian Blue Rib-
and,* First in Glass A, First in Class B, First in
Class C. Also 4 Gold Medals.
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO., LTD.,
Agents; Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney,
Pratt’s Motor Spirit
Sole Impobtebs:
COLONIAL OIL COMPANY.
T HEBESTHNATURALTAPERIEWT' WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
« Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un«
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose. —A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with (t
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
gm a TTnniAUT
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
Hi. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agrents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & GO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Charles Relph’s Australian motor-boat In-
vincible met its Waterloo on Saturday over a 30-mile
course inside Port Jackson (N.S.W.), when Arthur Davies
fulfilled his promise to beat the fastest boat in Australasia.
He did it with the most beautifully-lined craft yet seen
in these waters, but he had to rake the w'orld and spend
money like water to do it. Built of cedar by Holmes, of
Lavender Bay, Sydney, the new boat is practically a
hydroplane. It was designed at a cost of £2OO by J. A.
Pearce, the great Yankee marine architect who has de-
signed all the fastest boats in the Republic. The 15-20
h.p. three-cylinder, two-cycle Fairbanks engine was con-
structed by Smalley and Co., whose factory is one of the
best-equipped and up to date in the States. Davies
himself steered and handled his ves-el. Against
this combination of lavish money expenditure and hired
foreign brains, Australia was represented by the In-
vincible, built heavily of kauri, a virtual cruiser, capable
of carrying about 15 people over any sea. The 60-h.p.
Invincible engine, it will be remembered, was designed
by Relph himself, and built in a Balmain foundry that
had to contend against considerable difficulties. The
heavier hull, the greater beam and shorter length made
Relph’s boat look anything but a racing craft beside the;
symmetrical cedar shell.
The Invincible started with a bound, with the
Fairbanks in pursuit, and all in a moment they had van-
ished in foam and sheen of sunlight on tossing green
water. The Invincible kept in front till about 100yds.
past Bradley’s, where it seemed to slow down, and the
Fairbanks seemed to travel even faster. The cedar boat
glided alongside, passed the green one, and at Middle
Head seemed to be about 70yds. in front. Then they
both vanished into Manly Cove. When the Fairbanks
was next seen it was flying like a bird over the waves
that rolled in through the Heads, and the Invincible was
seen off the Quarantine station. The Australian boat did
not seem to be travelling at its usual speed, and as it came
across the heads seemed to be smoking. The Fairbanks
won by 4inin. 24sec.
The result shows that when a man of limited
means devises a splendid boat out of his own intelligence,
and depends solely for its construction on the resources
of one water-side suburb, he may still be beaten by a man
who has almost unlimited money to spend on hiring other
people’s intelligence, and who is willing to spend almost
any amount to down an Australian product. Relph
did something for the credit and industry of
Australia when he built the Invincible ; he founded
an Australian motor-engine-building business. Davies
who, apparently, never even thought of trying
to get a wholly Australian boat with which to
break the Invincible’s record, does his best to discredit
Australian workmanship by out-classing it with imported
Yankee notions. Quite possibly the Australian, when he
has as much money to play with as his rival, will build
something that will wholly out-class the American idea.
Meanwhile Mr. Davies stands out conspicuously as the
proud importer who has managed at great cost to do
some little towards damaging a new Australian industry.
* * • »
The gentlemen who run the business depart-
ment of Marylebone Cricket Club have their top-pieces
adjusted perfectly. They asked the Australian Board of
Control to send along a guarantee against loss, and
generally intimated that a prompt reply would oblige
yours faithfully. But the Board of Control has some
people who can see further than their noses, and they
objected to giving any blank cheque, and sug-
gested that the Marylebone Club should get down
off its cloud, and state in plain figures how'much it in-
tended to spend, or fix the amount of the guarantee that
it required. When the details were placed before it, the
Board of Control would be quite willing to talk business.
This careful attention to the matter of the bill is a bright
and redeeming feature in Australian sport—a sport which
has hitherto been run on Jenkins-like lines. Jenkins
was the man who waved his hand—a large, white, fat
hand, bedight with irreproachable gems—and said in a
kingly voice 1 “ Do the thing properly 1 ”
The Australian Board of Control knew what it
was about when it refused to give Marylebone an unlimited
guarantee. The Maoriland Association has dropped in
round figures £lOOO over the visit of the English team. Some
of the Englishmen’s wine bills are said to have been worthy
of Sardanapalus. In fixing the amount of the guarantee
at £lO,OOO the Board acted liberally enough, as the loss on
the last visit was £9,700, and the team was managed most
lavishly, never troubling to get the usual rebates from the
steamer people for fares, or claiming the usual reduction
upon a quantity made by hotel-keepers. The Board
pointed out that it could not guarantee an indefinite sum
unless it had control of the management of the team
while in Australia, and that was a fearsome responsi-
bility that it did not desire to accept. The probable
result will be that the haughty Marylebone Club will
refuse to stnd out a team under such degrading condi-
tions. In which case, if the Board is wise, it will go
straight on to negotiate w th Jackson, or Maclaren, or
some other prominent captain to bring out a team inde-
pendently of the Marylebone Club. j
A curious feature of that meeting of the Board
of Control in Melbourne was that Darling, of South Aus-
tralia, the oniy “ Player ” who holds a seat on the Board,
could not attend. “ Too busy ” 1 Most of the other men
are just as busy as Mr. Darling, and they managed to
attend. The same old trouble showed its cloven hoof right
through the proceedings. The first thing that struck the
Board was a demand for the admission of Westralia, with
two representatives. This was vigorously opposed, and
in the end Westralia had to be content with one repre-
sentative. The point of the matter is that Westralia has
never done anything forcricket, and has never sent a team
to any of the other” States to play an inter-State match.
Most of its cricketers are ex-South Australians, and it
was an open secret that had the two members been
admitted they would have followed the South Australian
lead in all things. AndS.A. follows the Melbourne Cricket
Club. The admission of two Westralians would have
given the balance of power to the MIC.C., which would
have been disastrous. They have brains in the M.C.C.,
but, fortunately, there are a few samples on the other
side also.
The Bulletin’s idea is that the Marylebone
Club’s offer was never intended to be accepted. When
Sydney Cricket Ground manager Phil Sheridan was about
to start for England he took the pipe of prophecy from
his face, and, with a flourish, declared that there
would be no Marylebone team in Australia next
season. It is said that if the Club accepts the
Board of Control’s conditions the “Players” will
refuse to play, and it is known that that impression has
been industriously forced on the Marylebone Club. If
the club does climb down from its attitude of veiled hos-
tility (climbing down is a habit to which the Briton has
grow accustomed of late years), then the Board should
hurry the choice of selectors, carefully excluding all
members of the old ring, who made the Australian XI. a
close corporation, so that they can keep a glittering eye
wide open for bright young players. New blood is
wanted badly.
* * * *
S.A. club cricket has ended with Clem Hill
(who had hitherto shone most in international games)
heading the batting averages, followed by Hack, Pellew,
Darling, Gehrs, and L. R. Hill, The bowling list is unex-
pectedly headed by Hay, whose fast stuff was the chief
cause of Warner’s defeat (with the Maoriland, or
“ amateur,” team) in 1903, but who has been a disap-
pointment since. Travers, Rees (who took most wickets),
and Hanson come next. Wright is tenth ; Mcßeth and
O’Connor, the imported pair from Sydney, are seventh
and eleventh. The district premiership was won, for the
third time in five years, by Sturt, which claims Clem
Hill, Hack, Darling, and Hay. The “ star” team—North
Adelaide—with Pellew, Claxton, Jennings, Reedman,
the brothers Rees, and Mcßeth for half the season, and
O’Connor the other half, could get no nearer than fourth.
A minor curiosity of S.A. cricket is that neither Hack
nor Newland has made a “ duck ” for six years !
* * *
The conclusion of the Victorian first grade
cricket competition was a dreary business. East Mel-
bourne finished with 22 points; its nearest rival, South
Melbourne, was afar off with 11 ; and University and
Fitzroy were hull-down on the horizon with five and four
respectively. # , ,
N.S.W. Cricket Association’s decision to admit
Petersham as a first-grade club may be right enough, but
its refusal to amalgamate Sydney District and Redfern
was a huge blunder. Redfern got through the just-closed
season without a solitary win, losing eight games and
drawing two. Sydney scored a solitary win in the ten
games it played. Perhaps they should be both absorbed
by other clubs.
» * * »
Sydney first-grade cricket competition is prac-
tically decided. On Saturday Paddington, which only
required to draw with Central Cumberland to hold its
own, went out to Hampden Park and gave a terrific
exhibition of smiting. Victor Trumper and Iredale
went in first, and so ferociously did Trumper assail the
bowling with his bit of wood that 147 had been scored
before Iredale was bowled by Connolly, having made 54.
Then Noble added 62, and close of play found Paddington
with 363 for the loss of five wickets. Trumper’s was the
second wicket to go, and he left covered with glory. His
score of 212 included one six and 34 fours. For the rest,
Redfern made 256 against Gordon ; and Burwood scored
106 against Glebe, while the meat suburb replied with 93
for the loss of four wickets.
Of the individual scores Trumper’s stood by
itself in lonely m gnificence. The nearest competitor
was his own captain, Noble, with 62 ; Iredale’s 54 was
third. Nicholls and Barnes, of Redfern, made 50 and 53
respectively ; and all the rest were low down on the list.
The bowling was uninteresting. Kellaway, of Glebe,
took four for 27, and his club mate, Grounds, bagged two
for 22. Hartigan, of Gordon, took two of Redfern’s for
23, and Docker, of Burwood, took one of Glebe’s for 10.
Altogether, the signs of the times say it is desirable to
bring cricket to a speedy termination.
The press of the world is being industriously
circularised on the subject of a fuel test made with three
motor-cars in New York State, with the object
of proving that petrol and kerosene are much cheaper
than alcohol as motor fuel. The cars used in making the
test were said to be identical, carried similar loads, and
started together over 249 miles of road which was partly-
covered with snow'. The cost per mile allegedly knocked
alcohol right out. Kerosene, it is said, was the cheapest,
petrol a close second, and alcohol three times as dear as
the kerosene. The Bulletin doesn’t know who made the
test, but would willingly wager a new hat that the
Standard Oil Trust had a finger in the pie. Although the
test was seemingly' fair, it was not so in reality'. The
cars according to the circular used the same
pattern of carburetter. The difference in the
density of the fuels is considerable, and the machine
that is to be driven by alcohol requires to have a
specially-designed carburetter for the purpose. Alcohol,
used with a carburetter designed specially for kerosene,
might be dearer than kerosene, just as kerosene, used
with a carburetter designed specially for alcohol, might
be six times as costly as alcohol. Ever since Roosevelt
knocked the excise off alcohol for industrial purposes the
Oil Trust has been making frantic efforts to demonstrate
that alcohol is next to worthless compared to petrol, and
much more costly. But a business that does not hesitate
to use cannon to batter down a rival concern’s plant is
not likely to stick over faking a test, and, in the face of
other experiments that have been made, it will take more
than the report of a test, conducted by some unknown
parties in New York, where the Standard Trust lives, to
prove that alcohol (which W'e can make inexpensively in
this country) is less effective and cheaper than the
petrol and benzine turned out by the great Oil Octopus.
The Yankee motor-car builder has decided to
invade Europe, and he will open his campaign by showing
the natives the sort of cars the all-fired, clever Amurkans
turn out. In order that the resident in the last, lone-
liest, and most secluded nook shall gaze upon the
triumphs of his genius and his Chicago-sausage-made
brain a reliability test of 50 Amurkan cars (all others are
barred) will be run over 4000 miles of country roads in
Britain, France, Spain, Italy, Austria, Germany, and
Belgium. The trip is calculated to take 60 days, and to
run'to £2OO per car. After the car will come the bag-
man, and after the bagman the Customs evader, and
behind him the Deluge.
* * * ...
The automobile trade is one in which it is
generally recognised that races and tests do much good
for business, hut apparently there are many firms in the
trade which fail to see the necessity for arousing public
interest, judging by the lukewarm support accorded to
the proposal of the Dunlop Rubber Co. to run a reliability
test from Brisbane to Adelaide. Up to date, only eight
firms have subscribed, and although they have shelled
out liberally, contributing £370 of the £7OO required,
taken by and large the response of the trade is
disappointing. As matters stand, there is consideiable
chance of the scheme being dropped, and unless the
balance of the money is promised by the end of the
month, the idea will be hove into oblivion. Immediately
the guarantees come along, the dust-worn Janies and the
trusty old De Dion will start out to examine the roads
and do the drudgery. If the money is subscribed, the
test itself will probably eventuate sometime in November.
* * * *
Frank Birtles reached Adelaide on his Ballarat-
made bicycle on Tuesday, April 16, a week behind Lennie
and Warren, who left him camped with sore eyes at
Eucla. Since leaving Fremantle on December 26, he has
been battling with desert sand and thirst, having eventually
to give up the spinifex country and come by the coastal
route, as the others did. His description of his half-mad
period in February—when he only just kept off the
craving to abandon bicycle, kit, and all clothing makes
exciting reading. By his cyclometer, the distance from
Perth to Adelaide is 3185 miles! Birtles got right
through without a puncture, and for the comparatively
easy Adelaide-to-Sydney ride w ill have lighter tyres and
rims. He left Adelaide on Saturday, after four days’
rest, promising to swim the Murray on the way—first
with his clothes, and then going back for his bicycle.
* * * *
When Birtles, Lennie and Warren left Bella-
donia together for Eucla, they took only three days' pro-
visions to see them over the 350 miles between. They
reckoned without the heavens above, which poured, and
the fountains of the great deep, which emptied upon them.
For two whole days they were unable to make any pro-
gress, provisions ran out, and the gloomy rain-dripping
sky took on a darker tint. Tramping wearily along on
empty stomachs, wondering what the end would be, a
wild turkey suddenly brought a gleam of hope. Birtles
fired and slightly wounded it, and then set out after it on
his bike. The others joined, but Birtles had got a start,
and, the turkey’s luck being out, he overtook and fell
upon it. The bird was meaty, and saw them through to
a station, where they got properly fixed up. It was a
most infernal experience; utterly without shelter, the
luckless wheelmen could only shiver helplessly through
the wet nights till a ghastly sort of dawn brought light
enough to resume the journey by, for the fuel was only
sufficient to boil the bill}' with, and sometimes not equal
to that. Altogether, overlanding seems to be a fool of a
game.
b * * • *
The season that has just closed has been any-
thing but a profitable one for the racing cyclists. The
most successful was H. Thomas, who appropriated £415
with 15 wins. George Farley, who scored 11 wins,
received only £ll5. The luckiest rider was Westralian
H. Modra, who got away with £226 for two victories—
which shows the advantage of playing for high stakes.
His fellow-statesman, F. Hoepner, was third on the prize
list with £156 for four wins. N.S.W. champion O. H.
Brook only scored £4O, and thereby fulfilled the Scrip-
tures, which saith that the race is' not to the swift, nor
the prize money to the boss pedaller.
Men connected with the trade and the sport say
that the just-closed cycling season has been the worst for
ten years. Certainly it does not seem possible for the
sport to have a worse season and yet exist at all. The
big races in Victoria were all run for reduced prizes, and
in N.S.W., owing to the roguery and downright dis-
honesty of a number of racing cyclists, it was impossible
to hold a season at all, and what racing there was took
place under the auspices of an unregistered body, which
is understood generally to have admitted any disqualified
member of the League, and in the government of which
the bookmakers were actively interested. However, the
experience has probably done the racing men good, for,
although they managed to defy the League and keep up
some sort of racing, the cash returns have been far below
vvhat they used to be under the League. Cycling js one
of the few things in which honesty does pay best m the
long run, and the crooked, boodle-hunting, purse-cutting
professional cyclist has possibly realised it by this time.
Probably the League and the promoters will give him
another show next season, but if he gets back to his old
games it will almost certainly be the last show for many
a long year.
* * * *
H. E. Mehrtens, the Australian Amateur Road
Champion in last year’s Warrnambool-Melbourne Dunlop
race, has just done a reasonably amazing feat. He rode
from Greymouth to Christchurch (M.L.), a distance of
170 miles, in 15hr. 30min. As part of the road lies through'
the heart-breaking Otira Gorge, and he struck a heavy
south-west wind the whole way, the ride is something to
be proud of, and is a record for that particular run.
Considering that it is only a baby club Mosman
did remarkably well to run right through thebowlspennant
competition with only one defeat. The pity of it was
that the debacle took place in the final struggle for the
pennant. Ashfield, the winner, is a club of small quantity
but large quality, and contains some of the best players
in the State. There were some at least in the Mosman
team who took the matter very seriously, and throwing
aside the Babylonish delights of city life carefully dieted
themselves for a fortnight before the match, and declined
to look on the whisky when it fizzed. The day was
beastly, and the older and more experienced players of
Ashfield knew more about making allowance for the gusty
wind, which destroyed the accuracy of the Mosman
Shooting. Ashfield won by 94 to 80, and will fly the
pennant for the next year.
* * * *
The Rugby season opens in Sydney on Satur-
day next. Glebe and Balmain will meet at Sydney
Cricket Ground. University and North Sydney will
struggle at the Sports Ground, and at University Oval
Western Suburbs will meet the long lean men from South
Sydney.
* * * *
The Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria
issues its first annual report to the effect that it made a
good start, and hopes to go on gaining ground. Thusfar
only 100 members have been enrolled at the modest fee of
half a guinea. The Victorian amateur championship
tournament, played at Alcock’s Hall (Melbourne), drew
£2l odd to the “gate,” whereas the Australasian cham-
pionship between Rumball and Tricks, which was
arranged for Cup week with the idea that a crowd of
sports would roll up to see it, resulted in a loss of £3l.
Billiards out of season is a neglected sport as regards the
public, but billiards in season is getting more popular
every year, and the Vic, Association should be able to
strengthen its forces by organising a tournament for
second-class amateurs, and even for third-raters, many
of whom seem to be scared off by the supposition that
only skilful players are eligible for membership.
* * ... * *
The cream seems to be off the milk in Wes-
tralia. At the three summer race-meetings—Coolgardie,
Boulder, and Kalgoorlie— £54,236 was invested on the
tote last year ; this year, the total was only £26,771. Kal*
goorlie made a profit out of its meeting; the other turn
will show' a loss.
* * * *
The man who was last week fined £lOO (or 12
months imprisonment), in Melbourne Criminal Court, for
the new crime of attempting to “square” the handi-
capper of a racing club, has been writted for libel and
slander by bookmaker E. Kelly. According to a statu-
tory declaration made by the would-be squarer he was
inspired to his misdeed by Kelly aforesaid, on the strength
of which declaration the V.R.C. wiped out Kelly in his
double capacity of horse-owner and registered “ book ”
The action for libel will be interesting, seeing tl at t was
the prosecutor’s horse that the handieapper was asked to
deal lightly with.
* * * *
Rumored that the sunstroke he received during
his honeymoon may force Clarence Weber to give up
wrestling and take once more to the simple life. In this
case Buttan Singh will stand a very good chance of being
once more professional wrestling champion of White
Australia. The truth of the matter is that the Australian
has practically given up wrestling as a pastime. If it
were a popular sport, Buttan Singh would not last 24
hours.
» • * *
Champion swimmer Billington quickly adapted
himself to Australian customs, and spent the greater part
of his time while in Sydney at the Rushcutters Bay baths
basking in the sun on the platforms. The result was that,
by the time he left, the Lancashire lad was of a beautiful
mahogany color, which will probably lead to his being
asked to write out 50 words in the Yorkshire language
when he gets back to the old Ma Country.
* * * *
That swimming match between Billington and
George Read fell through. Read returned to his home
at Broken Hill a few days ago, without affording any ex-
planation as to why the race was off. Billington affected
an equally close reserve on the subject, and left in the
Armand Behic last Monday.
♦ * » *
Billington’s peculiar stroke caused a stir
among the Sydney top-notchers, and all hands have been
diligently practising it since his recent wrecking of
records. It is not the build or the physique that makes
the champion—it is the ability to keep going all the
time ; and Billington has developed a stroke which pro-
pels him continuously, instead of by a series of quick
jerks, with a momentary slowing down between them.
The secret of his success is his timing. His top arm is
drawn back as his legs are opening for a kick, and is sent
forward as the kick is delivered. At the moment his feet
come together his under arm is drawn back, and so on
till the race is won. The point is that the kick is
delivered betw r een the arm-strokes, the top arm doing its
stroke immediately before and the under arm immedi-
ately after, and Billington is thereby propelled evenly
through the water all the time instead of by a series
of jerks as in the trudgeon stroke. The Billington stroke
is certainly the method for middle and long distance
swimming.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin. — In your issue of 4/4/’O7 you
state that “ Dad ” Donald, of the Albert Park Rowing
Club, started rowing in 1899. Jim had won 31 races by
that time, including two champion fours, a champion
eight, and two inter-State eights. He began rowing in
1888, and stroked the “ Snipe’s ” eight to victory with a
double maiden eight in 1889. This same crew, in addi-
tion, won a junior four, a junior eight, and eight (8)
senior eights in the ensuing seasons. — Frank Smith, Sec-
retary Albert Park Rowing Club (Vic.).
* * * *
After a fortnight’s silence, Wren’s Athletic
Pavilion (Melbourne) re-echoed the hoarse roar of the
push on Monday night (the 15th), when the pug-fanciers
were treated to three battles. Sanderson and Williamson,
a brace of lightweights, went in to fight 10 rounds, hut
Williamson was satisfied with three, and retired, a very,
much used-up pugilist. Bob Feeney and Jim Donald,
bantams, came in for another 10-round encounter, but
once more the third round saw' the finish. Feeney failing
to recover recollection till he was no longer wanted on
the job. Syd. Russell, a Sydneyside heavy, v. Jim
Griffin, a bulky Maoriland.er, provided the scrap that had
attracted the crowd, but after witnessing eight rounds
of flurry the probability is that the same crowd would
not give three beans to see Russell and Griffin fight again.
The lads were game enough and willing enough, bill,
what they did not know about boxing- is practically
everything that a professional puncher should be
acquainted with. After missing numerous glorious
opportunities for effective hitting, Griffin succeeded in
wearing Russell down. The contest was like a rush
between two lumpers to see which could carry two tons
of solid goods out of a ship’s hold in the less time, and
Griffin proved the tougher lumper.
* * * •
The fight between Sidney Sullivan and Thomas
Jones at Svdnev Gaiety, on Saturday night, was very
one-sided at first, slightly more equal about the middle,
and still more one-sided during the end of the 15 rounds.
Sullivan started to deal out battery in a gorgeously
liberal manner, hanging Jones all over the ring. Then he
slowed down, and Jones got going, but he lacked the
strength to keep it up. When he tired Sullivan came
again, and played such havoc with Jones’s great natural
resources that the referee interfered in the interests of
humanity and out of a regard for human sightliness, and
declared Sullivan the winner.
() n e of Maoriland’s institutions is J. J.
Meikle, who, 20 years ago, was sentenced for
sheep-stealing on the evidence mainly of a man
, Meikle on his release, got convicted of
. w •Is. moo nwOv wdl off at thp
perjury. Meikle.whowasp y ■ ’
time, spent_the whole of his property in trying to
prove his innocence; and after he had secured
b h e conviction of the chief witness against him,
the Government thought it a fair thing to pay
£ s qq g ut Meikle, who says he accepted the
w h en he was desperately hard-up, has
U+u., i a/mvo «tnmnins- the country
Spent the last few yeais Stu P .S A
finhstmg sympathy and support m a demand to
have the whole business_ re-opened ; and after 19
years he got a Commission appointed. And all
.^ afc tlle Commission (two Supreme Court Judges)
•:« fhaf* inosfc of the DeoDle who knew any-
can say lfc that i nost Ot tne .People wno luie y
thing much about the matter are dead, b J
certainly, on the available evidence, wouian i
have convicted Meikle. It isn’t much to show lor
20 years’ agitation, but it is more than Meikle
ad k e f ore
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
For the eradication of worms which infest tbe
human system, Comstock’s “Dead Shot ” Worm
Pellets are a safe and reliable remedy. They not
only kill the worms, but destroy the embryo,
without causing injury to the bowels or affecting
the most delicate constitution. Children from
four to twelve years of age are most subject to this
complaint, although all ages are affected, from
earliest infancy to old age. Mothers should note
the symptoms of their young children, and it
there is a disposition to grind the teeth during
sleep, excessive flow of saliva, and sleep disturbed
by sudden frequent starts, you may be sure your
child is troubled with'.worms.
Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or from
The W. H. Comstock £o., Ltd., 58 Pitt-street,
Sydney. Price, Is. 6d. jler box (six boxes, Bs.).


KUGELMANN’S
'I
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
FREE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann's Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted per
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. EL KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE & 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Hydro Majestic Mediow Bath, Blue Mountains,
The most Fashion*
able Winte: Resort
in Australia.
Buddings heated
throughout and lit
by Eleotricity. Enjoy
Luxurious Comfort,
Coed Cuisine, and
Hea.thful Amuse-
£4
ments. Motor Can and Carriages Every Day to Jenolan Caves and Mountain Sights. Apply for information
CITY OFFICE, 38 Castlereagh St., Sydney. Te ; e 3 p 4 9? ne
—' 'v
/*
-
e
fir
3M>s
Al
Edward Dyson’s BooK City Humor.
New Chapters New Characters. _ GEO. ROBERTSON’S A I
* Numerous Humorous Illustrations by Will Dyson. And all Booksellers.
Walk less!
CYCLE MORE!
You know that hill at the foot
of which you invariably dis-
mount—well all we ask is—try it
on a
FAGAN HUB
and you’ll find you’ll simply
“sail up”!
This hub has two speeds—the
low will enable you to climb
the steepest hill without fatigue,
the high give you greater speed
on the level and down hill—
and a little lever does it all!
Ask to-day for latest Art Book-
let, Dept.
EADIB MFG. CO. LD.
4 Stock Exchange Bdgs.
Collins St., Melbourne
WORKS: REDDITCH, ENG.
£5O
PRIZES !
ľ
To Writers
throughout
Australasia.
OUR LITERARY COMPETITION
IS NOW OPEN. PRIZES :
£l5 for the BEST SHORT STORY.
£lO for the SECOND BEST SHORT STORY.
£5 for the THIRD BEST SHORT STORY.
JINGLE VERSE COMPETITION.
Ist Prize £lO ; 2nd Prize £5 ; 3rd Prize £3.
Send for Printed Conditions of Competition at once to
A. C. ROWLANDSON,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., 476 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Contractor to the Railway Department, Sydney).
For Sale.
AGENCY FOR SALE of Well-Known
Brands of Scotch Whisky
IS OFFERED TO A REPUTABLE and ENTERPRISING
NEW SOUTH WALES HOUSE.
Correspondence is invited by
MCDONALD and MUIR, Distillers,
Queen’s Dock, Leith, Scotland.
Business Announcements.
600 SONGS
WORDS and MUSIC
JQ
IN the World of Music there are many treasures of Song
1 which for various reasons are denied the average'
music and song lover. It may be that your local music-
seller does not stock your favorite song, or it has long
since ceased to sell, and so has passed out of print, which
is often the fate of many precious old-time songs or
ballads of happy memories. Perhaps you wish for some
new, but popular, old world or American tune, quite
unknown here, or possibly some local air of your native
England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales. These, and many
others, with the national songs of various lands, you may'
have tried to procure locally, but how many musicsellers
carry stocks to suit so many varied tastes ? In our “ Gem
Budget of Songs,” containing 600 Songs, Words, and'
Melody, for 2s. 6d., we give the largest collection of
songs ever bound together between the covers of
one book. In it are to be found songs old and
new to suit every taste—from grave to gay, from
the sublime to the ridiculous—without a coarse or
vulgar line from cover to cover. Therein you will find
the patriotic and national songs of England, Scotland,
Ireland, Wales, France, Germany, America, &c. ; also
sacred, sentimental, comic, coon, nigger, pathetic, &c.,'
including such world-famous favorites as “ Annie
Laurie,” “Juanita,” “My Heart’s in the Highlands,”
“ Robin Adair,” “ Killarney,” “ Save the Boy,” “In Old
Madrid,” “ Men of Harlech,” “ Kathleen Mavourneen,”
“ My Bible Leads to Glory,” “Bonnie Earl'of Murray;”
“ Mary of Argyle,” “ Dwelling with Angels,” “ I Won’t be
a Nun,” “ Highland Mary,” “Kitty of Coleraine,” “ Prayer,
During Battle,” and scores of old-time favorites, priceless!
on account of tender memories, that cannot be secured
elsewhere. Hundreds of present-day popular melodies,
euch as “Comrades,” “Leonore,” and “That is Love,”,
are also to be found within the pages of the “Gem;
Budget of Songs.” We will send this wonderful book to
Bulletin readers for 2s. 6d. (posted, 2s. lOd.); if P.N.-
cannot be secured, and stamps are sent, add 3d. extra for
exchr;nge._Order at once, and, when writing, mention
Tiie Bulletin. Agents wanted everywhere. Addi’ess—
THE PUBLISHING CO., 460 b George St., Sydney, NSW.
iana
ŀ
“Never in my whole life have I received a present which gives
me so mucty pleasure.” From a Recant Letter to the Pianola Co.
Every time a Pianola Piano enters a home that instrument
can be gounted upon to sell several others, in fact, we have
knowledge of some instances where a single enthusiastic
owner has persuaded as many as a dozen of his friends to
become purchasers. A member of the London Stock Exchange
created over one hundred sales by his personal enthusiasm.
Do not wait for the information about the Pianola Piano to
come to you accidentally, or through the agency of some
friend. Let us send you one of the most vitally interesting
booklets you ever saw. Ask for Catalogue Ft.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested
in hearing' the Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
HENRY M. BIRGE & CO., 357 george-st., Sydney.
ISS Collins-St., Melbourne ; 311 Queen-St., Brisbane ; 38 King’ William-St., Adelaide.
ALCOHOL, MORPHIA AND
TOBACCO HABITS.
TAR. MARK H. THOMPSON’S full Formulae and
_ Methods of Cure (Institutional and Home). All
rights offered in these well attested remedies by ChaJj. h).
Glass,Sole Proprietor, 96LittleCollins-st., Melbourne; who
has on sale Dr. Leslie E. Keeley’s infallible “Gold Cures”
(4 weeks’ drink costing £6 ; 3 weeks’ opium cure £3los. ;
also Glass’s new, most effective, “ Gold Cure” for alcohol
(4 weeks costing £3).
MEN
suffering 1 from NERVOUS EXHAUS-
TION, DEBILITY, and VITAL power,
Consult me privately, personally, or by letter.
Descriptive Book, Advice, and full instructions FREE,
and post paid to any address. Write to Manager
Cooper Drug Co., 88 Pitt St., Sydney,
late Manager “Medical Review,” London, 23 years
chief consultant & Locum Tenens to Dr. BOYD, M.D.,
Expert Diagnostician, Physiologist, & Specialist in
nervous diseases for oyer 30 years. Cure Guaranteed.
ON TNENOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
©HTiriEN
%
*
*
*
o
o
M
jy
r
T
T 9 TAY ADD * f\


WEDDING
QUALITY COUNTS FIRST in the selection of
Wedding Gifts. Perfect in taste, and of the newest
designs, combined with that enduring quality that
assures lifelong service. Our prices are the lowest con-
sistent with the quality.
Absolute Satisfaction Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
4-CUP EGG FRAME and SPOONS,
pure Silver-plated, Gilt-lined Cups
and Spoons, 21s.
Other Styles, 255, 30s, 355, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET, Pure
Silver-Plated, Hobnail Cut
Glass Bottles, 15s tid.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
15s, 17s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER EPKRGNE, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 quality, Tinted or clear
Glass Tube, 15s 6d. Other Stvles,
4s 3d, 5s 3d, 7s 9d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d.
PRESENTS.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—Patrons will
find this book illustrated with helpful suggestions in
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and
Optical Goods. Write for a copy. We send it post free
on request. All goods sent carriage free to any address
in Australasia. Mail Orders receive prompt attention.
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELiL, pure silver-
plated, solid Silver
Handle', 4s 6d.
Other Styles, 3s 6d.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, pure Silver-plated, richly Embossed
and Engraved, hand finished,
size 9|in x 9Jin, £2.
Other Styles, 20s, 25s, 30s, 35s, 40s, 50s.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE or BREAD SERVER, pure Silver-plated, Peqrl
handle, 7in long, 12s (id. Other styles,
4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated,
Al quality, richly embossed, Sheffield Steel Knife, 255.
Other Styles, 30s, 355, 40s, 50s.
SUGAR and CREAM SERtUCU and 4 O’CLOCK TEA
SPOONS and TONGS, Solid Silver, handsomely
embossed, Gilt Lined, in Silk-lined Case, £4 15s
Other Styles, £2 10s, '£B' 10s, £4 10s, £5, £6 10s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver.
A1 quality, hand embossed, 3s 6d.
Other Styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 6s 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s Cd.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Bead design, highly burnished, llin, £2.
Other Styles, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
iHarelllBfilS?!
SAUNDERS.
4 O’CLOCK CAKE FORES, solid silver
handles, richly embossed,
in silk-lined base, ,15s 6d.
Other styles, 6s 6d, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s.
■
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA AND COFFEE SERVICE, comprising Tea, Coffee,. Sugar, and Cream.
Pure silver-plated on white metal, hand-engraved, gilt-lined, with covers £5
MADE EXPRESSLY FOR US BY JAS. DIXON AND SONS, SHEFFIELD’
Other Styles, £4 4s, £4 10s, £5, £5 10s, £6 10s, £7 10s, £8 10s, £lO, to £5O.
£5
A. SAUNDERS.
Luncheon CRUET, pure. sil-
crystal glass bottles, 255.
cut crystal glass bottles, 255.
Other styles, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, pure Silver-
plated, A1 quality, Amber
dr Ruby tinted Glass, 12s 6d.
Other Style?, &s 6d, 10s 6d,
.V2s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 25s.
■ill!
■R,
MM
UlililU
iliilll
A.’ SAUNDERS.
SALT CELLAR, Cut Glass, pure Silver
Mounts and Solid Silver Spoons, in
Case, 12s 6d, Other Styles,
13s 6d, 15s 6d, I7s 6d, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH and KNIFE, pure
Silver-plated, Nickel Silver, Satin
Glass Linim;, 12s 6d.
Other Styles, 10s 6d, 12s 6d, 15s, 20g
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, pure Silver-plated, richly
engraved, Butterfly design, highly bur-
nished, 17s 6d. Other Styles 91 -
22s fid, 255, 30s, 355. 7
A. SAUXDERS.
MUSTARD POT and
SPOON, pure Silver
Mounted, fine Hobnail
Cut Glass, 7s fid.
CREAM JUG, pure sil-
ver-plated, A1 quality, gilt
lined, hand-engraved, 25s.
Other styles, 10s 6d, 12s
6d, 15s, 20s.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and
TONGS, pure silver-
plated, gilt-lined,
10s 6d.
Other styles, 12s 6d, 15s
6d, 17s 6d.
%
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver RATTLE and WHISTLE, Xylonite Teething’
Ring, 7s 6d.
Other styles, 4s 6d, 5s 6d, 63 6d, 7s 6d, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s, 17s 6d, 20s, 255.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, pure silver-
plated, pierced leaf base, 6s 6d
Other styles, 7s 6d, 9s 6d, 12s 6d.
m
ITITI
nrmrnii
BUTTER DISH, pure silver-plated,
nickel silver, A 1 quality, hand-
embossed, crystal glass, 12s 6d.
Other styles, 8s 6d, 10s 6d,
12s 6d, 15s,- 17s 6d.
tew
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, pure silver-plated, A 1 quality, fine hob-
nail cut-glass bottles, richly embossed base, £2 10s.
Other styles, £2 ss, £2 10s, £3, £3 10s, £4.
PRESENTATION INKSTANDS A SPECIALITY;
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
Servers, pure silver-plated on nickel silver, A 1 quality,
satin glass lining, £3.
Other styles, 30s, £2, £2 10s, £3, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS, finest embossed shaded
china, pure silver-plated mounts and servers, £2 10s.
Other Stvles, 15s 6d, 20s, 255, 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s.
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER,
SILVERSMITH and OPTICIAN,
A. SAUNDERS,
\ 809, 811, 813, 815, 817 George-street,
) opp. New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S. W.


’It*''- ■
m
■
* - • ■■ ■
:
<Vj
■ mm
-
- ;
n,-:
/iS>
-X
JWi
-
N&»/
■
aLr. . E?*rr
I
'
*PT
L
s?io
—
■
.
a
-
m.
'
■Si \ ,/K :>
V
m
, .: . . ,
\v-.-
1
.v w
rv.
Mg
. “*aT' '.
'wrap-
-L- , J - ’’
> ■
A, j. Wjfi 1 1
•V, '*« r '
Two Pleasant Companions—A pretty girl
and a pipe of CAPSTAN.


Government Notices.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, lGth April, 1907.
CLEARING OF PILLIGA SCRUB.
TENDERS are invited for the clearing of
about 5000 acres of the Pilliga Scrub.
Forms of tender, plans and specification, and
conditions may be inspected at the Information
Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney, and at
the Crown Land Agents’ Offices at Narrabn,
Moree, and Gunnedah.
Tenderers will be required to give alternate
prices—
(a) With plant supplied by Tenderer ;
(b) With plant supplied by the Government.
The successful tenderer will be required to pay
a security deposit of 2i per cent, on amount of
tender on the execution of contract, and to enter
into a contract with His Majesty for the due per-
formance of the work.
Tenders should be addressed to the Under-
secretary for Lands, and should be marked,
“ Tender for Clearing Pilliga Scrub,” and must
be accompanied by a deposit of £lO.
Tenders will be received up to and inclusive of
Wednesday, the Ist May, 1907.
The lowest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. „ „
Robert McDonald,
5a149. Acting Under-Secretary.
Amusements.
HEATRE
Direction ..
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. .. J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Two Nights of RAFFLES.
SATURDAY, APRIL 27, for the First Time in Australia,
BRIGADIER GERARD.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as CAPTAIN GERARD
(For the First Time on any Stage).
’•rices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
i ■ Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AND EVERY EVENING,
Mr. Williamson will present the Greatest of all Drury-
lane Spectacles—
MOTHER GOOSE.
A Great Combination of Singers, Comedians, Dancers,
Pantomimists and Specialty Artists, carefully selected
for this Mammoth Production.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE,
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Sub'Lessee and Manager .. Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
Carlton Wallace’s Romantic Domestic Drama,
THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH,
Interpreted by WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC ORGANISATION.
Popular Prices.—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
JULIUS GRANT, Business Manager.
S YD N E Y.
PALACE
THE BROUGH-FLEMMING COMEDY COMPANY,
Under the direction of Mr. Herbert Flemming.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of PETER’S MOTHER.
SATURDAY, APRIL 27, for the First Time in Sydney,
a New Play r , in 3 Acts,
WHAT WOULD A GENTLEMAN DO ?
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
T H
WEST’S PICTURES,
“ Supreme in Art and Beauty,” and
THE BRESCIANS (Orchestra and Singers).
Every Evening, at 8. Matinees Every Wednesday
and Saturday.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and 6d.
kA/ ONDERLAND CITY, BONDI
*V (The Coney Island of Australia).
I rle Proprietor and Director, Mr. WiljLtam Anokrsox.
Adults, 6d. | ADMISSION | Children, 3d.
LAST THREE NIGHTS OP’ PRESENT SEASON.
PROGRAMME OF NOVELTIES AND SENSATIONS,
SOMETHING DURING EVERY MINUTE.
OPEN-AIR NOVELTY CIRCUS.
vING’S THEATRE OF VARIETIES : Miss Lenore White,
Mr. Ernest Fitts, The Musical Gardners, &e,
WORLD’S TOURING CAR.
FUN AND FLIGHT DEVICES UNENDING,
OUR I N G
QUEENSLAND.
PLAYING TO RECORD AUDIENCES,
POST MASON,
THE POPULAR AMERICAN BARITONE,
Supported by
A high-class Concert and Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
Great Success of EMIL AMIEL, World’s Leading Flexible
Equilibrist and Most Marvellous Bender.
CLEOPATRA, the Fearless & Fascinating Snake Charmer.
BONITA, World’s Champion Girl Rifle Shot.
Great Success of CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
Master JOSEPH DEWHURST. Miss NELLIE KILBURN.
Miss IDA INGERSOLE. Miss ANNIE LAURIE.
LITTLE EILEEN O’NEILL. HARRY SADLER.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Ilarrv Rickards.
FRANK HARTLEY, Juggling School Boy.
GRACIE GRAHAM, a Box of Misohief.
CARLTON, Card King Quaint Jester.
V. L. GRANVILLE, Impersonation Characters of Plays.
ADRIAN AMADIO, Boy Flautist.
THE BICKNELLS, Whirlwind Dancers.
CASSIE WALMER, Song and Dance Artist.
Plan at Allan’s. JtgT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, 25th APRIL, FRIDAY, 26th APRIL,
Last Two Performances of PARSIFAL.
SATURDAY, 27th APRIL,
A MEMORABLE AND BRILLIANT EVENT.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE will commence her Brief Good-
Bye Revival Season in
DOROTHY VERNON",
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as DOROTHY,
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as Usual. Matinee, Wednesdays.
N
EW THEATRE
Lessee
ROYAL,
MELBOURNE,
BLAND HOLT,
IRSDAY, 25th APRIL, FRIDAY, 26th APRIL,
Last Two Performances of REVENGE.
URDAY, 27th APRIL, BLAND HOLT and his
jpulav Dramatic Favorites in the most popular
of Drury Lane Dramas,
THE WHITE HEATHER.
Missing Friends.
CjWINBANK. —JOHN SWINBANK, please
kO communicate with his brother,
WILLIAM SWINBANK,
NARROGIN, WEST AUSTRALIA.
Important.
m
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
fMention Tiif, Bulletin.] [2
ASTHMACURE
I BRIMAULT’S INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Dlfllcnlty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemtots.
No Coo King !
Just a little cream or milk
and you can eat
Grape-Nuts
without the bother of
lighting the fire. TRY IT !
“ There’s a Reason.”
the
©
.«tv yoto
TaHMEBI
Sea F?
You can cure deafness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have failed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write for booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY 00,229 Collins St., Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
is Calling
///
•' use? *
v>;
A
m
?LH'
A.
a
/S' >
' . < s.<.*•", I
a ‘ • * 4
1 ■,«.£§
**§
sa
m
W
:
. „ > >;.4
E.<Q. A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space fox* Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric tans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada. United States of America, and Europe.
F
GIBBS. BRIGHT & C?
ABEUIDC. MEIBOM®,S*»NEV. BRISBANE.
GRENFELL STREET. 3ft QUEEN STREET. S7,PttTSmtit EAGLE STREET
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, ®-c.,
forwarded to any address on application.
ł
GIVEN
AWAY
FOR
CORRECT ANSWERS
A SQUARE PUZZLE. Prizes Paid in Full.
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our picture postcards, we have
devised this simple method of advertising, with the object of making our
name more widely known and to introduce our new Catalogue. We offer you
a grand opportunity to display your ingenuity, and receive the generous
reward of a Silver Watch (Lady’s or Gent.’s) or any articles picked from our
catalogue to the value of £l, for a little study. We expect by this com-
petition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that you will be
compelled to talk about us to your friends, and tell them about the extra-
ordinary value of the goods we offer for sale. The testimony of a well-
satisfied customer is the best and most effective advertisement that can be
secured. By this plan, therefore, we hope to_ greatly increase the number
of our customers, without adding to our expanses, by awarding as prizes many thousand
Watches which would otherwise be spent in advertising and printing.
THIS IS WHAT YOU ARE TO DO.
Here is a square puzzle, and everyone who solves it will receive the Solid Silver
Watch or other prizes without any other conditions whatever. The diagram shows nine
squares, with the figure 5 occupying the centre square. The puzzle is to place a number
on each of the eight empty squares, so that they shall add up to 15 in a straight line
in as many ways as possible ; no two squares may contain the same figure. There is
only one correct way of solving this puzzle, which, if you discover, entitles you to a
FREE Watch, and for the benefit of those who fail to send in the correct answer we
will publish the same in “The Bulletin,” when the competition closes. Our decision is
to be final in every instance.
PRIZES WILL BE PROMPTLY SENT.
Prizes will be honestly awarded and promptly sent. When sending your solution to this puzzle, mention,
whether you Would like Lady’s or Gent.’s Prize. This is an honest offer, made by a responsible firm. The distance
you may live away from Sydney makes no difference whatever to us, as all have an equal opportunity for win-
ning. Study, therefore, and exchange light brainwork for solid cash. With your solution of this puzzle send
postal note for 3/-, for which we will send you six dozen of the most artistic penny picture post cards you have
ever seen. Everybody wants picture post cards, and if you do not want the whole of the 72 cards for your own
use, you have plenty of friends or acquaintances who will be delighted to pay you a penny for each one you
wish to dispose of ; thus you get double the value for the money you send, with an excellent chance of winning
a Solid Silver Watch. Send your answer at once, together with postal note for 3/-, and a stamped addressed
envelope, so that we may inform you if you have won your prize. In writing, state whether Mr., Mrs., or
Miss, and address your letters very plainly to
Fi usnoisi A CO.. Angel Place. Pitt St.. Sydney, N.S.W.
5
pounds’ worth of
c
mm
■ u
„ -
and fame have been ex-
tending. Now millions use it. For'
it shines brightest, and it shines long-
est. It is easily put on, and it cannot
rub off. The clothing is not soiled, while'
the shoes are softened and preserved by its 1
use.
Especially is it appreciated for ladies’ and
children’s shoes, which it keeps in perfect con-
dition.
Made only by
L. Hauthaway & Sons
BOSTON, MASS., U
Agents for United Kingdom
JOHN S. DEED & SONS
London, England.
Inc
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne
AS it is necessary tor the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding of same, ana beg to submit the following lines
at greatly reduced prices to clear :
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price • • • • .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Hammerless Double-Barrel Breech-loading
Guns, SPECIAL high-grade trap gun, fitted
wi th treble wedge fast cross-bolt, left full choke,,
right modified, and latest improvements, safety
indicator. Usual Price, £lB. Sale Price, £lO 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 12 6
The Norfolk Rifle, fires 8.8. Cartridges to kill at
lOOvds. Usual Price, 17s. 6d. Sale Price ..£0 8 9
8 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 9
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellen t stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price £0 13 9
6 Single-Barrel Muzzle-loading Guns, walnut
stock, twist barrel. Usual Price, 255. Sale
Price , .. • • .. •• •• •• ,
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
Smokeless Cartridges, 6s. 9d. per 100
8.8. Caps, 9d. per box.
Shot, 2d. per lb. Caps, 2d. box.
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paidt<j
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
PILES
A CERTAIN, PERMANENT
AND PAINLESS CURE.
FREE TRIAL
vtsiss
LLS
V rn
wealing
Dr. Van Vleck’s Thres-Fold
Absorption Treatment cures
when every other method fails.
For Five Shillings we wills™, 1 *
you (post free' ft Trial Treat-
ment, arm, if you are dissatis-
fied with the r. suit after usiiif
the remedies. WE WILE RE-
TURN YOUR PAYMENT IN
FULL. The Trial Treatment
consists of —1. One Tube of A
sorptive Plasma, with specuU
Rectal Applicator, that immediately relieves inflammation an
pain : 2. One package of Mico-Food Cones..that:
feet a I tissues, strengthen the membranes and relieve constip.
tiim ; and 3 One package of Pile Pills, that tone up the ent re
system and ass.st in oyereoming the local weakness, a * ,
able Treatise, with colored plates, accompanies the ~j
Treatment, and fully explains the origin and atuses
terribly painful disease and the method of aUeviation a d c r
Send at once. Our present stock 13 ef rbh tar"
holds eood for one month only from the t* : t .
Remember, WE ACCEPT YOURDECISION Ifyou^t.
that the Remedies have not acted satisfactorily!
once return your Five Shillings.
VUVIO tSKUWi _
The Union fllfg. & Agency Co.,
9.99 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Medicator. size
3i inches long.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which ‘rad
from tire nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and heanng,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, rei -
ders the breath offensive, breaks do»n
the affected tissues, and consumes tne
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do 30“
want relief and cure? If so, try
great remedy.
KAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Kean-
ache. Neuralgia, Colds Bronchms Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note 10s. for Medicator complete,
with 4 months treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., iiW Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G. P. 0.)
_UNS
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality
W. W. GREENER'S
treble-wedge-fast
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting.
For Catalogues write W. P.
son, 317, Collins St ..Melbourne, 0
simply address ,
“Greener, Birmingh£J^
FITS CURED
every other remedy had mue
“ a <Ji.'-Affi , C&MSTrITOB ES ' BTC-
WHOLESALE AGENTS-
j^!SSa±i


THE SEGONO SUBDIVISIONS
The Section includes 32 Choice Dairy and
Agricultural Farms from 72 to 3H Acres.
AUCTION SALE (6000 Acres) OF
THE NORMANBY ESTATE
20,000
ACRES
ON THE FASSIFERN RAILWAY, <6 MILES
FROM BRISBANE, Q’LAND, WILL TAKE
PLACE AT HARRISYILLE, AT 2 P.M. ON
SATURDAY, June Ist
NEXT.
PARTICULAR ADVANTAGES*.
The Cressbrook Dairy Co.’s Milk Factory (1*
miles away) pays sd. per gallon for milk.
RAlNFALL—B6.66'inches; average for 18 years.
Clo e to Market and Railway Station.
Settlers oan visit Brisbane and return >ame day.
No purvey Fees or Residential Conditions.
Very light clearing, good fencing material, and
grand soil.
Nearly all Lucerne Land—Ridges and flats alike.
Liberal options, no floods, levei roads. Splendidly
watered by Warrill and Warroolaba Creeks.
The Normanby Estate is famous for its rich
pastures and large lucerne fattening paddocks,
and has been used for many years past as a
“Topping” Run for fat stock travelling to Bris-
bane markets.
LIBERAL TERMS
One-tenth Cash;
Balance in Ten
Annual Payments
at 5 per cent.
PLANS AND PARTICULARS FROM
ISLES, LOVE & CO
AUCTIONEERS, BRISBANE.
N.B.—-Conveyance meets train every moraine.
laiticulnrs and Plans obta nabJe at all offices of The Australian Estates and L.M. Co., Ltd.
m
Do You Know of a Man
—Who has been trying for years to grow a Moustache ?
You will do him a great favor by telling him that
CAPILLARINE will produce a full Moustache better
and quicker than other so-called hair producers.
CAPILLARINE Costs 10/6 Per Jar.
Post free to any address in Australia.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
u
t
M
e
n
KAJiOMAfcPH
««ni6wt iso* M
PHONOGRAPH %
THE PHONOGRAPH
The above is a rough sketch of an oil painting by Massani, now
the property of Mr. Edison, which depicts the delighted amaze-
ment of an old couple upon first hearing an Edison Phonograph.
No less surprised and delighted are those who now hear the im-
proved Edison Phonograph for the first time in a number of years.
They are so amazed to find it so very different from what they
thought, their previous opinions being based on the old style
machines or the rasping imitations owned by their neighbours.
The GENUINE . .
EDISON
PHONOGRAPH
is to-day the world’s greatest and most versatile entertainer, and
Mr. Edison is ever striving to make it better. It talks, laughs,
sings—it makes home happy. It renders all varieties of vocal
and instrumental music with marvellous fidelity. It offers some-
thing to suit every taste—every mood —every age—every day in
the year.
No other good musical instrument can be so easily operated at so
little expense.
If you will write us we will send you a descriptive book, and tell
you where you can hear the Genuine EDISON, free of charge.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia.
Limited.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS
l
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. BOOK' OF NATURE and Illus-
tratkd Marriage Guidk by Dr.
Faulkner, illustrated with over SO
engravings, genuine 1904 edition,
hard covers, improved. How to
Dance, Is. Nana; Piping Hot;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s, Is 6d
each. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is.
Up-To-Date Comic Reciter, Irish
Comic Reciter, Dramatic Reciter,
Is each. Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s.
Humorous Dialogue Book, Is. Tiie Wife, The
Husband, and The Lover, Is ; posted Is 3d.
My Neighbour Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and
many others, all in cheap edition. Bride' of the
First Night, 1/3. Staining. Varnishing and
Polishing Wood, Is 3d. Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/3. How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and
Clairvoyance, Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ;
post Is 3d. Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of
Philosophy, Is. How to Vamp on Piano, Is.
How to Make Love. Is Dream Book. Is.
Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. Tub Cuckold, Is ; post
1/3. Krkutzer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Slattery’s
Secrets of tub Romish Priests, 2s. Ideal French
Art Studies. 5 parts, 10s. Zingara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards. Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates & engravings, 7s 6d posted. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Midwives’Handbook, 92 illus., 2s6d. New Tricks
with Coins, Is. Aristotle, 3s 6d. Lover's Letter
Writer, Is. Phrenology, Is. Lightning Calcula-
tor, Is. Stolen Sweets, 2s. M blbourne Barmaid,
Is. Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Money Making
Secrets, Is. Women’s Secrets, 1/3. Letter Writer,
Is. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking Made
Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr. Warren,
Is; post Is 2d. Letter Writer for Lovers, Is.
How to Make Love, Is. Hoyle’s Card Games, Is.
i»T AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
A GENUINE ELECTRIC BATTERY.
No electric belt made can equal
the good qualities and health-giving
features of this grand Medical Battery.
It is the same as used in the
leading hospitals, and will cure every-
thing that Electricity is good for.
All Nerve Troubles Rheuma-
tism —Sciatica, etc., there is nothing
better for. It is far superior to and
vastly more effective than medicine
or so-called electric belts. It is
endorsed by medical men throughout
the world.
Write for Free Booklet.
Price 35/-
POST FREE.
We will refund money to any dis-
satisfied purchaser.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd., SJKS;
OPTICIANS and
ELECTRICIANS,
393 George St.,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
A SPECIAL FEATURE.
RIDING TROUSERS . . .
In Whipcords and Q / Q O //I
Sadd'e Twists, " 5 O At / VJ
RIDING BREECHES . . .
Whipcords and Q O / A tf/T /
Saddle Twists, &AtjKJ lO jU*
Garbardines and Twillettes
3216 to 45/-
SCOTCH
CHEVIOTS
As Illustrated,
Design No. 110,
50/- to 75/-
FLY or SPLIT. FALL FRONT.
LACED or BUTTONED KNEES.
Made on the same lines as HUNTING BREECHES,
cut very clean at the knees, with plenty of
fulness on thighs, they are acknowledged the
Smartest Knickers Worn.
Specially Designed for PERFECT
FREEDOM in WALKING, FISHING,
SHOOTING, GOLFING, MOTORING,
L>
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.—A PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED for Knickers
and Coats of every description- Our Self-Measurement Forms, Patterns,
Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED
ISHSS&srSAKER*- 300-310 bourke st., MELBOURNE
..
. " nif-^
*« - .«4^U§
THE SEARCHLIGHT Electric Pocket Lamp*
This Electric Poet: Lamp is guaranteed in perfect order, throw
ing a dazzling bright lig ht. Though so cheap, it is of the best quality.
By pressing the button the light is instantly available. It contains its
own battery, and every Lamp is tested before forwarding. Useful for
many purposes. Strongly made Nickel Case, finished in imitation
crocodile leather. Price only 2/« posted free to any address in Aus-
tralasia. The same Lamp, fitted with Bull’s-eye Magnifier, price 2/6
post free anywhere. Extra Batteries for Lamps, which can be recharged
when exhausted by adding hot water, price 1/3 post free anywhere.
Electrical Novelties, Conjuring: Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise
and Joke Novelties.
Electric Scarf Pins
For Attaching to Pocket Lamps.
These Pins are made to wear in the scarf,
and the wire for connecting with Lamp is
long enough to run down under the vest, and
allow you to carry Lamp in either vest or
trousers pocket. Easily connected by un-
screwing burner from Lamp and screwing in
its place Button or Pin.
Skull Pattern Pin, price 1/2; Pearl and
Brilliant Pin, price 1/5; and Lamp
Pattern, price 1/8 post free anywhere.
I Biiim
r
H. L HUTCHINSON
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.,
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
Box 3, P. 0., Haymarket. WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
The Most Up-to-date Fancy Goods Store
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST B.
l Australasia.


Little Girl’s Obstinate Case of
Eczema Instantaneous Relief
By Cuticura —Little Boy’s Hands
and Arms Also Were a Mass
of Torturing Sores Grateful
Mother Says:
"CUTICURA REMEDIES
A HOUSEHOLD STANDBY”
“In reply to your letter I write you
my experience, and you are privileged
to use it as you see fit. Last year,
after having my little girl treated by a
very prominent physician for an obsti-
nate case of eczema, I resorted to the
Cuticura Remedies, and was so well
pleased with the almost instantaneous
relief afforded that we discarded the
physician’s prescription and relied en-
tirely on the Cuticura Soap, Cuticura
Ointment, and Cuticura Pills. When
we commenced with the Cuticura Rem-
edies her feet and limbs were covered
with running sores. In about six weeks
we had her completely well, and there
has been no recurrence of the trouble.
“In July of this year a little boy in
our family poisoned his hands and arms
with poison oak, and in twenty-four
hours his hands and arms were a mass
of torturing sores. We used only the
Cuticura Remedies, washing his hands
and arms with the Cuticura Soap, and
anointed them with the Cuticura Oint-
ment, and then gave him the Cuticura
Resolvent. In about three weeks his
hands and arms healed up; so we have
lots of cause for feeling grateful for the
Cuticura Remedies. We find that the
Cuticura Remedies are a valuable
household standby, living as we do
twelve miles from a doctor, and where
it costs from twenty to twenty-five dol-
lars to come up on the mountain.
Respectfully, Mrs. Lizzie Vincent
Thomas, Fairmount, Walden’s Ridge,
Tenn., Oct. 13, 1905.”
The original of the above testimonial is on tile in th«
office of the Potter Drug & Chemical Corporation.
Reference: B. Towns & Co., Merchants, Sydney, N. S. W.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for everj
Humour, from Pimples to Scrofula, from Infancy to Age
consisting of Cuticura Soap, Ointment, and Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vial of 60), may be had of all
druggists. A single set often cures. Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., Boston, U. S. A.
OS~Mailed Free, “ The Great Skin Book.”
Address, R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
5
Oaiine
is the face cream for the Aus-
tralian woman who values a
good complexion.
It will remove Ml the dirt and dust tha
soap and water cannot get at from the pores
of the skin, and will keep it soft, smooth anil
clear through the Australian summer, so
complexion destroying.
Oatine is a pure cream made from healing
oats and contains no dangerous mineral salts
or animal fats, which hot weather can cause
to go bad.
Oatine will not grow hair. Men should
always use it after shaving.
Oatine costs 1/3 a jar at all chepnists or in
larger sizes, containing r four times the
amount, 2/6.
To be obtained atall chemists, stores,
etc., throughout Australia.
; -
L= LSiffl
QUEENSLAND BRANOH
Colonial Mutual Building 1 ,
next G.P.0., Brisbane.
Sub-Aoenciks :
Victoria, S.A. and Tas
VARLEY BROS.,
Hinders Lane, Melbourne.
Bookman’s Buildings,
Adelaide.
West Australia—
MIDDOYVS BROS.,
A.M. P. Building, Perth
Up-to-date office Systems
make Methodical Clerks
out of careless ones.
SYSTEMS for Correspond-
ence.
SYSTEMS for Ledgers.
SYSTEMS for Stock Books.
SYSTEMS for Indent Books.
SYSTEMS for Indexing.
SYSTEMS for all Records.
SYSTEM for Storekeepers.
Australian Users now num-
ber over one thousand.
Of course you have System
in your office BUT IS IT
PERFECT?
Has it occurred to you that
it might be improved
upon.
IT COSTS NOTHING- TO
INVESTIGATE.
UNDERWOOD “VISIBLE”
BILLING TYPEWRITER.
JOHN SANDS, 374 George St„ Sydney,
Soi.k Australian Agent Wabash Systems.
105,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed !!! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Red Har; y ts
tired
feeling
that
get
tyre
try
When
yon
NS
ICHELI
M
Tn
of
which
Never
Tyres
the
you
*
r
FREE.WT
THIS
STYLISH
LADIES*
OXFORD,
5/6
“THE AIDA,”
in glace, kid, patent
cap, newest heel.
Also as Button Shoe
at same price. Post-
age extra, in Vic-
toria, 9d. ; other
States, Is. 2d.
THIS
GENT.’S
LACE
BAL,
14/6.
In box calf glace,
patent leather,
welted soles —in
this and all newest
shapes—all the one
price. Postage
extra, in Victoria,
Is. ; other States,
Is. Bd.
Our Booklet, “ Shoelight,” that illus-
trates and describes our stock of
Footwear. Posted anywhere free
on request.
1
LEMMING’S BOOT Stores
109 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE.
And at 1 & 3 ERROL ST., NORTH MELBOURNE; 303 CHAPEL ST., PRAHRAN.
The Australian Widows’ Fund Life Assurance Society Limited
cFetomn263 George Street, Sydney.
LIFE , ACCIDENT AND INVALIDITY ASSURANCE IN ONE POLICY.
ANNUAL PREMIUM for £lOOO, person aged 30, payable at 60 or Death, £39 19s. 4d.
SPECIAL BENEFITS : (1) £2OOO if death takes place as result of accident; (2) £lOOO for Permanent Total
Disablement; (3) £5OO for Permanent Partial Disablement; (4) £6 per week for Temporary Total Disablement;
(5) £1 10g. per week for Temporary Partial Disablement; and (6) £6 per week for incapacitation through
specified diseases. For full particulars and conditions call or write for Prospectus. V. JLBAXTER, Res. Sec.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Kotics
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
ud -
The Gold-Getting Fallacy.
For thousands of years humanity has been wast-
ing its time hunting for gold and, in modern times,
Australia has suffered more from this foolishness
than probably any other country in the world.
Ihe latest development of the gold-getting idiocy
took place near Tarnagulla (Victoria), where the
discovery of a number of ponderous chunks of
gold led to 1500 able-bodied men, capable of use-
ful labor, having their productive power with-
drawn from the community, while they spent
their time digging holes. Five months have
elapsed since the discovery of the big Poseidon
nugget, which impelled 1500 representatives of a
nation of gamblers to forsake their useful
occupations and burrow like rabbits in the j
ground. During that period they succeeded j
in obtaining a quantity of gold, which they
sold for about £20,000. This means, if the
useless yellow metal is regarded as being worth j
its market price, that the gold raised by the 1500
men during 23 or 24 weeks has just about paid
their living expenses. Probably in the whole of
the history of gold, there never was a field more
favorable to the digger than the Poseidon rush.
It is distant only 70 or 80 miles from Melbourne,
and an established township, where the necessaries
of life are for sale at ordinary prices, is only five
miles away from the gold itself. There is an
ample supply of good clean water, efficient police
protection, and ready access to all markets. Yet,
with all these advantages, the Poseidon rush has
just contrived to pay its way, estimating the
expenses of each of the men who worked
there at 15s. weekly. The gold fever is probably
the most foolish frorn which humanity suffers.
Ihe value of gold arises almost wholly from its
rarity, and the only reason why everybody is
looking for it is because it is hard to find. Its
uses are restricted to the filling of teeth and the
manufacture of useless trinkets, if the demands of
the currency are excepted ; and even the currency
is merely a promise to hand over a certain quan-
tity of goods, and might almost as well-—a whole
battery of economists notwithstanding—consist of
paper. 1 hat the Poseidon rush has paid its way
does not in the least justify its existence It has
to be remembered that for five months 1500 men
have been employed on work that, even if it bene-
fited every one of them individually—which it cer-
tainly did not —entailed immense loss to the com-
munity, in respect to the general depletion of pro-
ductive power. Under an intelligent economic
system, each of those 1500 men—many of whom left
wives and families in the city would be perform-
ing work worth, at the lowest estimate, 30s. weekly,
and consequently, by their withdrawal from the
field of useful labor, the community has suffered
to the extent of over £2OOO weekly, leaving the
total cost of the Poseidon rush at £46,000. Had
l7*7 * vf’KiNS Gambling Act been properly framed,
gold-digging would be regarded as a criminal
offence, and any person found digging more than
three feet below the surface would be required to
prove that he was engaged in agricultural pur-
suits, or that he was looking for coal, copper, iron
or some other useful substance. Failing that, he
would be sent to gaol for six months.
Moulding Mary Ann.
H.Cx. on a subject that seems to become more
complicated with inspection :
Of all the callings, probably that of domestic service
shows the lowest average of competence. To a certain
extent, this must be the case under existing conditions,
for there is a continuous drain upon the occupation by
marriage, and as marriage generally removes the more
experienced there is a constant tendency to reduce the
level of competence. The service is always being re-
cruited by utterly inexperienced girls. These have to be
trained to the trade in which they are already supposed
to be journey women ; and, in a great many instances,
the mistresses who train them are no more capable than
themselves. The result is that the labor connected
with domestic management is long and laborious, just as
all labor not intelligently applied is long and laborious.
It is infinitely more difficult to manage the domestic
affairs of a large steamship than those of a private home,
yet with an efficient head-steward and an efficient staff’
the work is mere child’s play to the affairs of many a
suburban household of four persons. In some of these
the girl rises at daylight, has her meals at odd
moments snatched from work, and goes to bed tired out
at nine or ten o clock at night. Her mistress verv often
has worked side by side with her all the time, and half
their labor has been about as useful as if they were
engaged in baling out the ocean. It is this
unending daily toil, coupled with the stigma
attached to domestic service—a stigma, as old as the
days when the work was performed by slaves—
that makes many girls eager to accept half the wage in
any other branch of labor. A domestic servant is well
paid as women s wages go, and on the surface of things
it is a surprising economic fact that the hundreds of
intelligent girls, now working long hours in city offices
tea rooms and shops, do not rush the better conditions of
domestic service. Mrs. Macallum, who made a special
study of the subject of domestic science during her
recent visit to America with her husband, Professor
1S no 'y trying to work up a scheme to establish
in hjdney a college of domestic science, in which both
maids and mistresses may be taught how to cook and
. generally keep house. The good it should do cannot be
over-estimated, though the practical good will probably be
indirect rather than direct. The very fact that there is
in the market an educated brand of domestic servant
will attract well-educated girls, who would now readily
accept such billets, and fill them capably, but for fear of
losing social status. A few r years back, girls brought uu
as young ladies” would have hesitated to enter the
nursing professmn. The provision for proper training
and the establishment of a stiff course of study, which
effectually prevented any girl lacking in intelligence from
getting a certificate, altered all this. The Gamp variety of
nurse perished off the face of the earth, and to-dnv the
wearing of a nurse’s apron involves no sacrifice of -ocial
position. With a proper school of domestic science, the
same thing will probably occur. The girls will not be
domestic servants. They will call themselves certificated
house assistants, or something to that effect, and
the girl who now hastens to qualify for school-teaching
in a galvanised shed 200 miles beyond Bourke, and the
iOs,, a week typist, and the tea-room girl, and all the rest
of the decently-brought-up girls with no money, will
beoome certificated assistants, and indigestion will be
banished from the land. The only difficulty is that the
certificated assistant, being always on hand, will pro-
bably capture all the available sons in all the available
households, and, after the first 12 months, there won’t be
a single certificated assistant who isn’t managing her
ow n household, arid spending all her spare time knocking
a domestic servant of the old Mapy Ann type into shape.
;—■ '«+- / •
Isl i™, : Phe scandal of the north! The
other day the Northern Territory police prose
cuted a Chinaman for living with a child, whose
present age is put down by Europeans as under
13, though she lias been living with the Mongolian
or nine months. The Bench discharged the
accused, and pronounced the girl to be of the age
of puberty. The idea seems to have been that
the child was only a nigger, anyhow. The China-
man is, naturally enough, now spreading the news
amongst the filthy pagans that the Government
The m Austmlffi, to f ’ hVe with aboriginal children.
1 , Australian Commonwealth will find a great
r;p k p‘, o c g ha " dhere '


The Right Time
to taka a Reuter’s Little Pill Is
when your tongue is coated, your
breath is heavy, or you have a
stuffed feeling. All these are signs
of constipation in a mild form.
That’s just why Reuter’s Little
Pills are so good. They can be
taken upon the slightest suspicion
of trouble. One or two pills swal-
lowed in time will prevent further
trouble. They work so naturally
that you are not aware that you
have taken anything except for
the feeling of relief and comfort
which follows. Reuter’s Little
Pills are the only remedy contain-
ing the combination of vegetable
ingredients which fulfill the
promises made for them. Besure
you get what you ask for.
Reuter’s Soap will beautify your
complexion.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
gout and
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
ĺ
Cures
Drunkards
PROOF POSITIVE.
MORE HOMES MADE HAPPY!
MORE TESTIMONY !
MORE GRATITUDE!
FURTHER CONCLUSIVE TESTIMONY
AS TO
THE MIGHTY WORK
EUCRASY IS DOING.
Sample Free for Writing.
RECOLLECT THAT EVERY LETTER HAS BEEN
SENT QUITE VOLUNTARILY AND WITHOUT ANY
REQUEST ON OUR PART.
WHAT IT HAS DONE IN THESE CASES IT WILL
DO IN OTHERS.
EUCRASY
IS DOING A GREAT HUMANISING, RECLAIMING
AND REFORMING WORK THROUGHOUT AUS-
TRALIA.
ONE OF ITS MOST VALUABLE FEATURES IS
THAT IT IS TASTELESS AND ODORLESS, AND CAN 1
RE ADMINISTERED WITH OR (SECRETLY) WITH-
OUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUFFERER.
IT IS IMPERATIVE TO NOTE THAT—
EUCRASY DIFFERS FROM ALL.
OTHER PREPARATIONS.
Townsville (Q.), March 21/07.
The Eucrasy Co., Sydney.
Gentlemen, —I am sorry I have not written before to
state the result of the case I have been treating, but I
have been too happy in the great blessing- which has be-
fallen me. My was the patient to whom 1 gave
the powders, quite unknown to him, of course. At one
time it seemed hopeless, being in the bar all day, as he ;
was, in the very midst of temptation ; but I kept in
ihe bar with him myself as much as possible, and did not
let him slay in it ariy more than I could possibly help,
and I am now thankful to see him constantly turn away
from the spirit bottles with a shudder. I have about a
dozen powders left. I shall recommend Eucrasy to any-
one I know troubled like I was.—Believe me to be, yours
sincerely grateful. (Mrs.) M. J. S.
FREE
If you mention this paper, a Sample of
EUCRASY and BOOKLET OF IN-
STRUCTIONS will, be sent you sealed.
Enclose 6d. stamps for postage. This is a genuine offer.
Call on or address—
THE EUCRASY CO.,
62 Hunter St., SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
Established 1840.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
o p nuf » rr * m p r it Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any o*f the Aus-
frahan Statcs or New Zealand IPF~ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing: Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent! of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dtrfc,torK' The Hon A W Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker Deputy-Chairman ; Benjamin
Sn. I*.; B«V“U i The Hon. R. J. •taMfKOi T. H Win.hcomb, , Ro.lo A. Cepe. W,
General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.a., i.1.A., 1.8.8.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
m
i
in
I
an
HOTEL
VISITORS TO
THE OLD
COUNTRY
Queens Ga.teTerrd.ee
London. S.W. y
UNDER
L
PATRONAGE
ROYAI
THE v/MOSTy
, FASHIONABLE,
HOTELS IN
LONDON
NOTED FOR'
'ITS COMFORT &\
CONVENIENCE
Consult HERR RASSMUSSEN
In all Private, Nervous, Skin and Blood Diseases, and all Specific Complaints
of Men and Women. No Mercury. Advice Free. Cures Guaranteed.
TREATMENT BY POST A SPECIALTY.
Weak Men ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS
Will Cure the Nervea, Debility, Lost Power, Restore Lost
a «d Strengthen the Spine, Brain and Nervea.
secure the return of Youthful Strength and Vitality. Re-establish
Self-Confidence, and Prevent Melancholia, Despondency, and Despair.
Boxes 6s & 12s. Course, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 435. 6d.
niiDC Dll I C Cure all Contagious Blood and Skin Diseases,
BLOOD CURE PILLS. Qravel Sores. Urinary Troubles, and allßlood
Disorders BOXES, 6s. COURSES, 23/6. Special Powerful Double Course, 43 6
BLOOD CAPSULES, 6s. His Universal Pills Cure Anaemia, Internal Female
BLOOD CAP Complaints, Weakness. Boxes, 6s. Courses, 236.
Weak Women Special Powerful Double Course. 435. 6d.
RHEUMATIC and SCIATICA PILLS, a Guaranteed Cure. Boxes, 6s. Course, 23/6
R LWer Pills Cure Costiveness Is. Pile Powders 6s. Fat Reducing Powders 6s
Head Office : 547 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
Branches: 211 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE; 15 PULTENEY ST., ADELAIDE;
Ur HI HANNAN ST.. KALGOORLIE?
91 LAMBTON QUAY, WELLINGTON, N.Z.
HANS PETER RASMUSSEN.
?'■ '" i> ‘ c J
Montseßs&
Sauce
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juce Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
I CURE FITS.
What I think of my remedy for Pits
doesn't so much matter; what you think
of it is much more important-therefore
I will give you a bottle of it to try before
buying any. It speaks for itself! I guar-
antee it to be the best and safest remedy
for Fits yet found. I have given away
over 70,000 bottles of it during the past
30 years, and have testimonials of cures
from all over the World If you, or your
people, care for restful night* and health*
ful days you will do well to
TRY IT.
A simole and safe remedy—approved by
the Medical profession.
Prepared only by H. G. ROOT,
45. Museum St., Bloomsbury, London,
' England.
Send 1/- to oav parcel post to the Colonies.
HOLLOWAYS PILLS
ļ
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses . them
recommends them to others. 1 ney have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
oultin" the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. Thev are the best known
rent'd v for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “ run-down ” >r “out of sorts. ” Females
of every age find Holloway s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumoago, Pams and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo' t welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
y/
,V^
<V
$
<4?
I
Look At Your Hair
See how thin it is growing around the ears;
never used to be that way did it ? What you
need is scalp nourishment. Revive your scalp
and it will revive your hair. Hair grows the
same as grass; it needs something to draw
nourishment from; that something is your
scalp. Feed your scalp with Barry’s Tri-
coph-erous; it nourishes and rebuilds starved
scalps.
How Tri-coph-erous Cures
Tri-coph-erous goes directly to the cause
of the trouble; it does this because it is espe-
cially prepared to. It kills the microbe at the
root of the hair and supplies vitality to the
exhausted scalp. When you build up your
body with good food you take on more flesh.
This is just what Barry’s Tri-coph-erous does
for your scalp. It makes the disappearing hair
brace up and grow stronger, thicker, longer
and more luxuriant.
A Promisa
If you are troubled with baldness, falling
hair or dandruff, and have tried the usual list
of “hair growers,” “restorers,” “tonics,” etc.,
without receiving any benefit, we waut you to
test Barry’s Tri-coph-erous. Begin again 'n a
rational way to treat your scalp. Give your
scalp attention and we promise you that your
hair will take care of itself.
How To Use Tri-coph-erous
To derive the best and speediest results
from Barry’s Tri-coph-erous, it should be used
twice a week; before going to bed is the best
time. Part your hair with a coarse comb,
then sprinkle on Tri-coph-erous. Do this
until the entire scalp has been wet not
drenched; then “knead or manipulate the
scalp gently for four or five minutes. Manip-
ulate the scalp every night and apply 1 ri-
coph-erous twice weekly. Do this for a
month or six weeks, with a shampoo with
Reuter’s Soap every ten days.
Beware
When you go to your chemist’s for Tri-
coph-erous, be sure that you get Barrys.
Don’t let the salesman talk you into buying
something “just as good.” The success of
Barry's Tri-coph-erous has made many Trade
Thieves who would rob it of its “Good Will”
with the public. These trade thieves are
substitutors who try to sell you something upon
which they make more money. Beware of
them. The genuine Barry's Tri-coph-erous
is made by Barclay & Co., New York, U.
S. A., and across the end of every wrapper
is this trade mark:
i» ■■¥.! cv.
Trademark.
rKnassanrW)
Note the name Batclay & Co.
Reuter’s Soap is the best soap for the
shampoo. It is absolutely pure and re-
moves the dirt fr«.ni the hair without
the nat lira I secretions of the
scalp. At your Chemist’s.


&
Write for Price List
and Catalogues
to tHe Sole Agents,
LIPP PIANOS
The genuine LIPP PIANOS
were first manufactured in
1834.
Since that date over 27,500
have been manufactured
and sold. The experience
gained in making that en-
ormous number is embodied
in the present day LIPPS.
These Pianos are world
famous for their Pure Tone
Quality, Delicacy of Touch,
and Great Durability.
They are guaranteed to
stand true as a rock in
any climate, and to give
perfect satisfaction.
Catalogues Post Free,
MELBOURNE;
ALLAN & CO. PROP., Ltd.
276-8 Collins Street.
SYDNEYs
W. H PALING & CO., Ltd.
338 Georg'e Street.
LITER TORPOR, STOMACH I KIDNEY TROUBLES
From Doctors
Dr. J. BOND SULLIVAN
WHITES :
“Knock, Ennis, Co., Clare, Ireland.
“Having recently got from you a bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder, from which I personally de-
rived much benefit, will you now kindly send me
a larger supply ? I really feelunsatisfied without
it myself, and I have recommended it to several
lady patients, who approve of it greatly. An aged
clergvman to whom I recommended Kutnow’s
Powder tells me he finds it both effective and
agreeable.
“ J. BOND SULLIVAN,
“M.D., M.R.C.S., Eng., etc.”
Dr. I. N. LOVE, M.D.,
WROTE:
“ The great surgeon, Prof. Lawson Tait, M.D.,
himself a sufferer from a gouty diathesis, for years
found Kutnow’s Powder of great value to himself
personally and in his practice. Kutnow’s Powder
stimulates the activites of the bowels and kidneys.
It cleanses the bowels, acts as a diluent, and
flushes the kidneys in a most satisfactory way.
Thorough elimination is salvation, and there is no
better eliminator than Kutnow’s Powder.
“I. N. LOVE, M.D.”
(Professor of Clinical Medical Diseases,
Marion-Sims College of Medicine ,' and
College of Physicians and. Surgeons.)
Dr. J. ABIC LA
WRITES :
“Tripoli, Syria. July 20th, 1905.
“Dear Sirs,—lt gives me pleasure to let you
know the result of my trial of Kutnow’s Powder.
It is an efficient remedy in regulating liver
secretions and curing skin diseases due to dis-
ordered functions of the said organ.—Yours truly,
“J. ABELA, M.D.”
The Advantages of Kutnow’s Powder.
SIR JAMEb CRI CHI ON BROWNE said that a prolongation of
life is not desirable unless that life be vigorous and happy.
Many of the quick-killing diseases that involve but brief
disability and suffering, like typhus and typhoid fever, are decreasing,
while slowly degenerative diseases, involving protracted invalidism
and much misery, like Bright’s disease, diabetes, and cirrhosis of the
liver, are mounting up. Society has always had to pay for every
mistake it makes, except when the habit of hygienic correction is
cultivated. PROIESSOR LAWSON TAIT, M.D. recognised the
importance of removing the debris of undigested food the morning
after the banquet, and not only prescribed Kutnow’s Powder in his
hospital and private practice, but used it personally for years with
unqualified success. The secret of health is often found in the
elimination of uric acid, and this is easily achieved by the use of
Kutnow’s Powder. It cleanses the stomach, rouses the liver, flushes
the kidneys, and clears the bowels. By this simple means the errors
of excess in diet and drink are corrected, and the poisonous debris
removed from the system.
How to
Detect Fraud !
The genuine and original Kutnow’s
Powder can be had of all conscien-
tious Chemists throughout the
world. See that the fac-simile sig-
nature, “S, Ku tnow and Co., Ld., ”
and the registered trade-mark
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,”
are on the carton and bottle. You
will then avoid fraud, and
Get Kutnow’s
Powder.
Dr. Leon Blanc
WRITES :
“Aix-les- Bains,
“.Tune 7th, 1905.
“Many thanks for Kutnow’s
Powder you sent me for the Thermal
Hospital. It has proved equally
beneficial for my Rheumatic and
Gouty Patients, both in the hospital
as well as for those patients taking
the Aix-les-Bains cure.
“LEON BLANC, M.D.”
(Consulting Physician of Aix-les-
Bains, Physician of the Thermal
Hospital, Member of the Council for
Hygiene of Aix and Savoy, Laureate
of the Academie.de Medicine de Paris,
•Sec., dec.)
From Clergy.
♦
Rev. F. L. BULLEN
WRITES :
“ Wellesley, Church Lane, Highfield,
“Southampton, Oct. 22, 1905.
“Dear Sirs, —I have no objection to your pub-
lishing my testimony concerning the excellent
properties of Kutnow’s Powder. I can only wish
I had tried it years ago. In my case it has proved
to be an agreable and gentle aperient, cleansing
the liver and kidneys, relieving the brain of any
symptoms of pain or discomfort, and regulating
generally the whole organic system.
“(Rev.) F. L. BULLEN.”
Rev. F. G. RILEY, M.A.
WRITES :
“ Helperthorpe Vicarage, York,
“May 13, 1905.
“ Dear Sirs. —I have given Kutnow’s Powder a
fair trial, and I may say at once that its action is
gentle and its effect all that can be desired. I
shall in future keep a store at hand for use as
required from time to time. The Powder is agree-
able to the palate as an excellent household
medicine.—Yours faithfully,
“(Rev.) FRANCIS G. RILEY, M.A.
“(Sidney Suss. Coll., Camb.)”
Rev. C. E. WINCOTT
WRITES :
“Gentlemen, —About three years ago I was
confined to my.bed for a short time with a very
acute attack of liver complaint. After other
medicines had failed to take any effect, I was
recommended by rny doctor to try Kutnow’s
Powder, and lam glad to say. that after caking
two bottles. I was completely cured, and my
health has been better ever since.
“(Rev.) CHARLES E. WINCOTT,
“ Incumbent of St. Philip’s Church,
“Adlington Lane.”
SOLE PROPRIETORS: S. KUTNOW ®. CO.,
LTD., 41, FARRINGDON ROAD, LONDON, E.C.
[3—9.]


What a red rag is to a bull the man in blue
is to some individuals. Recently, a citizen of
Adelaide was strolling home with his wife at 2
a.'m. when his eye was arrested by the sight of a
policeman ruminating at a street corner. Quite
without any just cause for annoyance, he re-
marked to his skirted half, “Blimey, I’ll ’ave a
go at ’im,” and smote the law upon the ear with-
out warning, and with much violence. The law
at first thought the domet had sneaked in on him
when he wasn’t looking ; then he realised the
situation and grappled. After a Homeric struggle
that W!t“ed its joy upon the deserted air, the
enemy t S subdued and pufcin a place of safety.
The moment of tierce joy was assessed at £6, and
even then the assailant seemed to think he had
made a fair bargain.
From “John Freeborn” :
Ei eiy democrat will endorse your remarks (B. 4/4/’O7)
touching the fatuous all-or-nothingness of many of
the Labor leaders. Littleness of mind and narrow-
ness of outlook are as characteristic of noncon-
formity in politics as in religion. Labor has its sects,
just like the churches, and similarly, too, each sect is
split into sections, and these again into smaller groups.
The Plymouth Brethren are so eternally busy casting- out
heretics and starting new orthodox churches that thev
make no progress. And the Labor party—outside Par-
liament, at least.—is engaged much of its time in doing
the same kind of job. The parti’ in Queensland (to keep
up the pious analogy is like the Scottish'elder, who had
worked so hard to free the kirk of heretics and here-
tical beliefs, that there were only he and his brother left,
and he had his doots aboot Sandy. Deacon Lamond has
hisdoots aboot Sandy, and there are a lot more like him in
the party. There is more joy in the Labor heaven over
one backslider broiled in oil than over ninetv and nine
sinners that repent.
==Britisb=JlMstralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
6d POST FREE, £1 per year,
♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may he addressed care of
the British-Adstralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Price
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
“HARNESS THE WIND”
WITH
MARTIN’S
ALL STEEL
AERMOTOR WINDMILL
IF YOU WANT
Farming ...
Implements
< >F ANY
DESCRIPTION
WRITE US FOR
CATALOG.
MARTIN’S &
Reliable Acetylene
Gas Generators
Are Everywhere in use
throughout the State.
WRITE US FOR
AN ESTIMATE.
We aue this Largest
Importers in Australia
op
Carbide of Calcium.
Get out* Prices before
ordering- elsewhere.
James Martin & Co
161 Clarence St., Sydney
ACETYLENE LAMP
m
PRICE 27/6
Homoeopathy
*MEANS health
WEAK MEN!
Do you realize the value of VITALITY
and ENERGY?
For a number of years we have experi-
mented, in order to find the most effica-
cious means of overcoming disease, and
at last our efforts Have met with unpre-
cedented success, and we are
glad to be able to state that the
treatment of Weakness
and Kindred Ailments,
Nervousness, Stomach
and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism, (Bb Allied
Complaints, Prostatic
Affedions, Etc., are completely and permanently cured by
as
Cr
THe
Secret
0f...
Health
The Irving
Homoeopathic
Treatment.
. A well-known Prae.fi:tioner, in a recent lecture at a London
Hospital, stated Homoeopathy is only in its infancy, and if the
public would only realize the benefits of this form of treatment
they would not fly to nauseous medicines taken in large quantities
but rather assist nature in bringing about cures in a more natural
and scientific way, by the mild power -HOMOEOPATHY.”
We would like you to know more about our method so in
order that you can make a studv of our system, we will send to
your address, post free, a copy of the sth Edition of our Brochure
“ WORDS OF WISDOM ” to any man who will write to-
THE IRVING HOMOEOPATHIC ASSOCIATION
Cr. Hunter and Bligh Sts., Sydney.
FORTUNE
IS CERTAIN
If only the exact opportunities of life are known.
Ascertain those I>3' means of Astrology. Send date of
birth, postal note or stamps for 1/- and postage, for
i A Test Horoscope of 5 Large Pages
Calculated and written by K. Hersehell, who has supplied
Horoscopes to the late Mr. Cecil Rhodes, W. E. Gladstone,
and thousands of others.
“REFEREE ” says The prince of living
Astrologers.”
Money Returned if HOROSCOPE incorrect.
HERSCHELL (of London),
“ Woodville,” Mont Albert,
Melbourne.
E’ili. in, Cut Out and Send this Advt.
Name...........
Address ;
Date of Birth.
F’PEE TRIAL II
NOT A PENNY COWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s mproved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC B- LT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all tases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free^E?;
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC,
Please mention this paper.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
Exgland, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Thicks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Oqmio Richter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, is each posted. Hell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Gleason’s
Big Horse Book and How to Train the
House, is 6d. Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanic’s
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
'Tkk, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiie Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s (id. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
w Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is Bd. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Chiniqity’s Priest, Woman
and the Confessional, Is 6d. The Art of Jui-Jitsu,
9d and Is 6d. God and My Neighbor, lOd. Britain
Foil the British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How
to Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3(1. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taugiit, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s fid. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is (id.
ss
■
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS 1 REE PROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
, ooCur t 0 the ,llinds of young and old, but about
"1?/ “5. f el , a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
e d evo t e dt° innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
W u tu n ? alc es it a superior guide to the action of men and
. if" i . lnd out of marriage. No man or woman who
uL J a ,rlgd !!' future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
if iff* 1 sense ’ ca J} afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
~ if S ‘ ,VT f S ’f A ' : ’ T ! ( f N GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth covered ? d ‘t>onof this great work. It will be posted to
AN\ address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY ' FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE.
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of-Ireland. 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Va,mi> on ls. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
; Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster
is posted. Cabinet Makers Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. On Our New Selection, 6s (id.
Eung Complaints, Is 6d. French Self Taugiit,
is 2d. \V ANNAN’S Engine Driver’s Guide, 6s Od
posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
Others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Bi.FR in Melbourne, Is posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. fi<F~ Established SO years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New Tiucks with Cards, is. Sappiio, genuine
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. .Milford’s Mid-
wife s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6a.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is
Practical Palmistry, is. Love and Parentage’ Sd’
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lover’s
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Decrees 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Mother, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest sonars, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (whv pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d Dyna
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pa''es cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete) Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY
COCKLE’S
ANTI-
BILIOUS
PILLS.
I do not hesitate to say it is the best made pill in the kingdom."_Dß. G. F. Collier, in the Pharmacopoeia of the Royal College of Physicians of London
) FAMED AS A FAMILY MEDICINE FOR A CENTURY. I invaluable to every Mother of a family. A
m
G
<C/
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food*
tßenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £52.
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £ll5.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1868.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,270 5 0
Reserve(inGovt. Stock. £43,435) .. 55,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq.; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
EOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS'STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £2,990,533.
Policies Issued 102,148 —Assuring £30,193,326.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £3,784,725
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.O.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of florth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
SOUTHERN BRANGH : PITT STREET.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank oT flew
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
DDRIITC nDACTC on Australia, New Zea-
UnAN I O Unrtr I O land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
DALCETY & COMPANY
LIMITED.
Capital Fully Subscribed ... 434,000,000
Capital Paid up ... £ 1,000,000.
Reserve Fund ... 43165,000.
Head Office—96 Bishopsgate St.
Within, London, E.C.
BRANCHES:
VlCTORlA— Mf.lbourne and Geelong.
NEW SOUTH WALES— Sydney and Newcastle.
QUEENSLAND— Brisbane, Rockhampton & Townsville.
WEST AUSTRALIA— Perth, Fremantle, Kalgoorlie,
Gkraldton, Albany, Carnarvon and Roeburnk.
NEW ZEALAND— Dunedin, Christchurch, Wellington
and Napier.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA— AdeIaide and throughout the
South East.
This Company makes Advances on, and conducts the
Sale of, Land, Stock and Station Property, and receives
for Sale in London or any of the markets of Australia or
New Zealand consignments of Wool, Skins, Hides, Tallow,
Frozen and Preserved Meats, Grain and Dairy Produce of
all descriptions, and carries on a Financial, Shipping,
Insurance, indent, Merchandise, and General Agency
hnsinpss.
Voigtlander's Cameras
are the most suitable for Tropical Climates. They
resist heat and damp.
’
m
Folding
Metal
Cameras
are perfect.
Fitted with.
Focal Plane
Shutters.
Folding Stays
make their Sol-
idity extraordi-
nary.
They embody
Efficiency with
Lightness.
VOICTLANDER LENSES.— “ Collinear," “ Helliar,”
“Dynar.” Made by the oldest Optical House in the
World. These Lenses are the result of a Century's
Concentrated Skill.
VOIGTLANDER & SON, Brunswick*
Sole Australian Agents—
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd., 386 George St., Sydney,
and 03 Queen St., Brisbane.
Si 1 ad for Illustrated Booklet: “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, tlx., Post Free.)
Shipping.
KT. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Pour-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
*T\vin-Sorew Steamers.
Leaving MELBOURNE Tuesday after Sydney.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. 7th MAY.
MANILA 4th JUNE.
PRINZ WALBEMAR .. .. 2nd JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities — Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Svdnev.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
J.J ill IT ICO. "
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £45S,042 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 175,308 10 0
Reserve FuND(Invested in Government Stock) 68,000 0 0
£701,351 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, GANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
ľ
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000-ton Steamers.
AFRIC, to Sail from Sydney on
or about 17th MAY,
PERSIC, RUNIC, MEDIC, and
SUEVLC to follow.
FAKES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. 25 2 6 to 36 2 6
Only One Class of Accommodation*
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and.
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN
"MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
A. Simpson .. I No n, April 26
N. Allan .. I Noon. May 24
A. Douglas, R.N.R. I Noon. June 21
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ' .. .. From £52 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £ll5.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., oh application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
As-ents in Australia.
? HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cairns, and thence by the
Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Malaita to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
5?i
CRUISES.\
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. Ltd.. 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
STEAMERS SATL
MAY 13, JUNE 10, JULY 8*
The Best Route to Europe.
THE GRANDEST SCENERY
IN THE WORLD IS AMID
THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS
IN CANADA.
Round the World Tours
AT CHEAPEST RATES.
Write for Particulars.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
M:>nfiirtii" A”enls, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
Civ*
$
a*
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3Xr.S.A*7.
fl)ontdepieteo.«|i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
17 HUNTER ST., NEWCASTLE,
and 229 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colllns-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors : F. R. Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
a t\ i Accident and G-uarantee
vVt-nIN Co Ltd. of Loudon.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.0.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood, Esqr Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne : Hon. P. S; Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.; SYDNEY.
RABBIT SKINS.
TO FILL OUR ORDERS WE REQUIRE
6,000,000 RABBIT SKINS
this Season, and are prepared to pay EXTREME PRICES.
IMMEDIATE RETURNS, NO COMMISSION
Consign to— JAMES FAY, MCDONALD & CO.
276 SUSSEX STREET SYDNEY.
THIS MENS
'Bush Boy' Watch
GUARANTEED for 12 MONTHS,
Post Free to any Address in Australia
fc- j* V*®
I’ll
\ I /
" 7 S£“:>
£3l
K
% /
tC/'- *s&#■?**•*%'
’Sbmsmi
'riJlS is a splendid Watch for country use. You
* couldn’t get a better timekeeper if you paid a
Hundred Guineas. We call it “The Bush Boy.’’
It is a Polished Steel Cylinder Keyless Watch with
Jewelled Movement. You can have the Cases in
either Nickel or Gunmetal, as you like (say which).
Both are practically Dustproof—has a Strong Crystal
Glass Pace. Can be wound up, and hands set with-
out opening the Case. Every Watch is guaranteed
in writing for Twelve Months. Sent Post Free any-
where for 7/6. Sit down and write for it to-day. It
will stand plenty of knocking about, and be none the
worse for it. Ask us to send you FREE our Beauti-
fully Illustrated Catalogue of Watches, Jewellery and
Plated Goods.
“DUNKLINC, THE JEWELLER,”
315-317 Bourke St., Melbourne.
POLICY fob thk COMMONWEALTH.
Price firl, from The Bulletin Office.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Vlotorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE, \
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,'
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. '
S.S. Grantala, Wednesday.
May 1.
S.S. Yongala, VV yvnesday,
May 15.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Cairns.
}S.S. Wollowra, April 27.
S.S. Innamincka, May 4.
Jlest and ('/leanest Haute to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ali
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. s. YUILL & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Messageries Maritinies
SYDNEY TO LONDON, via COLOMBO and PARIS.
Steamers of 6500 tons, under Postal Contract with the
French Government, calling at MELBOURNE, ADE
LAIDE, FREMANTLE, COLOMBO, BOMBAY, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be dispatched MONTHLY, asfollows:-
PASSENGERS booked to Bombay, India, Chins.
Batavia, and Japan. PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £75,
including table wines.
RETURN TICKETS AT REDUCED RATES. ENGLISH
SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Custom:,
etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
For further particulars apply at the Company’s Office:,
Queen’s Corner, Pitt Street, Sydney.
P. de BURE, General Manager in Australia.
Hotels.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS, TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rr\HE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
A- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 1 '7. Windsor.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St.. London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
George: hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Henry Skinner,
Olarendon-st., South Melbourne.
2 'tlephone No. 10h$.
Mr. Skinner has a very extensive and carefully
selected PLANT OF TABLE FURNISHINGS, by
far the largest and most complete in the
colonies ; and can with confidence guarantee
satisfaction in all business entrusted to Mm.
Public and
Private Bails
Catered for
on Most
Reasonable
Terms.
Banquets and
Dinner Parties
MARQUEES, TENTS and DANCING
of Various Sizes Supplied.
| APIES’
COSTUMES
Call and inspect, or write for
samples of our Costume Cloths,
Tweeds, Worsteds, Serges, and
other materials.
Our Cutter, Mr. Mukfhy, will,
from his long practical experience,
advise as to style, cut and general
make-up, and will give each cus-
tomer his individual- care and
attention.
DAVID BRAHAM & CO.
Ladies’ Tailors,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY
(between George and Pitt, Streets).


VICTORIA
Collins & S wansfon S'*
WEST. AUSTRALIA ML
395 S 397 Hay St Perm |ft
QUEENSLAND
Queens Edward
NEW ZEALAND
H6&143 Queen SL Auckland
1 S 3 ton.
236Z25 5 HighS*;
Princes & DowlingSt? Dunedin^
rj
/
/
t
CORNER.GEORrp ct sYDHt'*
I
it
mt
wlvlwfc
I
If its from
Stewart Dawsons
its good.
r r Write the u
store nearest
' JTOU. 1
®6e STEWART DAWSON advertising is distinguished from
most others by the omission of *• glaring misrepresentations
and foolish exaggerations.” Compare the Prices and
Coods 5 then yon will be fully satisfied.
Study this Diagram and
you will be convinced of
tbe Savings Effeded.
The cut shows a
cross-section ol'
the
Jas. Boss
Gold
Filled
Case, '
which is one of
the variety of
cases found on
Keystone-
Elgin
Watches.
Construction of this Back Lid is same as Front Lid.
Construction j •
of this Inside j •
Cap is same ji
as Front Lid. i!
These Joints are
made of
Solid Gold
The Bow is Solid Gold.
_Showing application of sheet
of Gold on Crown.
—Showing composition-metal
supporting Gold on Crown.
—Showing application of sheet
of Gold on Pendant.
-Showing position of sheet of
composition-metal in Pendant.
3ho wing application
of sheet or Gold on
the outside of bezel
which holds the
glass, or “ crystal.”
fThe dotted line in-
dicates the glass, or
“crystal.")
- Showing application
of sheet of Gold on
the outside of Front
Lid.
-Showing position of
sheet of composi-
tion-metal between
outside and inside
sheets of Gold.
-Showingapplication
of sheet of Gold on
the inside of Front
Lid.
. Showing composi-
' tion-metal support-
ing Gold on Center,
or “ Rim,” of Case.
Sho win g application
of sheet of Gold on
the outside of Cen-
ter, or “Rim,” of
Case.
These 14 ct. Gold-Filled Watch Cases are made of two
plates of 14 ct. solid gold, with a plate of hard composition metal'
between them, thus making the surfaces that are exposed to
wear of solid gold, and using a cheap metal to obtain stiffness
and strength, thereby obtaining a case which for all practical
purposes is equal to solid gold, at a cost of from one third to one-
half the cost of a solid gold case. Stewart Dawson and Co.’s
25 years’ guaranteed Gold-Filled Watches are not to be con-
founded with the ordinary American-made gold-filled or rolled
gold watches. In all the essentials ours are the equal of solid
gold. Externally there is no difference ; the gold on the OUT-
SIDE, the designs, the workmanship, and all the details of
finish are precisely the same as in a solid gold watch.
Of Special Interest to Thoug'Htful
and Provident Men. and Women.
YOU will agree with us that it would be a difficult matter to find a man or woman who dislikes the idea
of wearing a gold watch. Many never expect to be able to afford one ; others, again, can easily
afford it, but do not like to run the risk of losing such a valuable possession. If we could only meet
these people face to face and have a few minutes’ talk with them, we could quickly show them a
way, and a satisfactory way, too, out of the difficulty. The 14 ct. Gold-Filled Case was the invention of a
mechanical genius, one James Boss, in 1853. He conceived the idea of a STIFFENED gold watch case; a
case that would look LIKE A SOLID GOLD CASE for a specified long term of years, would be actually better
than a solid gold case as a protection to the movement, and would COST MUCH LESS. His thought was
to replace the gold that was hidden away in the thickness of the case—the WASTED gold —by a cheaper,
stronger metal, and thus preserve all the beauty of 'the solid, gold case at no sacrifice, but an actual gain, of utility.
This diagram shows the
beautifully Engraved Hunt-
ing Case of the Ladies’ Size
Watch.
This Diagram shows the Works.
We post it free and safe
to you for
I
u
A Free Copy of otir WatcH, Jewellery, and Silver
Goods Catalogue gladly sent, on request.
This shows the Engine Turned Hunt-
ing Case in the Men’s Size.
3*B*7
mm
>o<H iH#®
ii
Shows the Works of the Men s Size Watob*
5 lOs.
n
Sent Free and
Safe by post
for ... .
Street
412
O
(Strand Corner), SYDNEY.
If you. are going to London write for a Free Booklet tkat will save worry,
or you can call at any of our 8 Stores and get a copy.
When Yon Vigit London!
Meet Your Friends and
Fellow Australasians at
19, 20 & 21 Hatton Garden, E.C.
Slewapt Dawson’s,
ONE of the sights of London, and one you should not miss, is the magnificent six-story building just erected by STEWART DAWSON & CO.
for the better reception of the many visitors to London fiom Austialia. It is miles ahead of any building anywhere devoted to the Jewellery
business. Fireproof throughout, it has superb Shipping Offices for the prompt despatch to our Australian and Lew Zealand Stores of all the new
things as they appear. Ihere are Three Showrooms, Home Offices, Reception Rooms, Two Electric Lifts, Strong Rooms, and last, but by no means
the least, a Bureau where you can write your letters and meet your friends in comfort, or have a glance at the Australian and New Zealand papers.
This convenience is specially provided free of charge. Any letters addiessed there will be carefully preserved until called for. All information
will be cheerfully supplied, and Mr. Dawson will always be pleased to see any one personally if they so desire.


The World's Favorite
Briar Pipe.
The Leading Pipe in Australasia
and all the World
For over 50 Years
Obtainable
| from all Tobacconists.
FreeS Freel
To the Sick and
Ailing Everywhere
THE CURE FOR YOUR DISEASE
Delivered Free—Free for the
Asking—Free to You.
ffio the sick— the suffering—to every man and
ft
woman victim of
organic disease —
local trouble or
broken general
health —Dr. Kidd's
offer of free tieat-
ment is given in the
absolute faith and
sincere belief tint
they can and will
stop disease, cure
it and lift you up
again to health and
vigor. There is no
reason why you
should not get well
if you will only
bring yourself to
take the free test
treatment of these
wonderful rem-
euies, no matter
what your doubts
may be.
I Want the Doubters
I want to give them the proof—the evidence
and the glory of new life in their own bodies—
and I want to pay the host of this proof-all of
it—to the very last centrum self.
I have put my life into this work— J. hold the
record of thousands of “ some better ”
—but thousands of desperate sufferers, hearty
and strong and big and well; and their letters
are in my hands to prove every word I say.
Rheumatism, kidney troubles, heart disease,
Eartial paralysis, bladder troubles,stomach and
owel troubles, piles, catarrh, bronchitis, weak
lungs, asthma, chronic coughs, nervousness, all
female troubles, lumbago, fkiu diseases, scrofula,
impure blood, general debnitv, o.gauic vital ail-
ments, etc., are cured to remain and continue
cured.
Mo matter how you are, no matter what your
disease, I will have the remedies sent to you and
given into your own hands free, paid for by me
and delivered at my own cost.
These Remedies Will Cure
They have cured thousands of cases—nearly
every disease—and they do cure and there is no
Eca on why they should not cure you—make v»u
wed—and bring you hick to health and the joy
of living!
Will you let me do this for you—will you let
me prove it—brother and sister sufferers? Are
you willing to trust a master physician who not
only makes this offer but publishes it and then
sends the test and proof of his remedies without
a penny of cost to anyone except liimself ?
Send your name, your Post Office address and
a description of your conditio i, and I will do my
utmost to satisfy every douut you have or can
have that these remedies will save your life and
make it all that nature meant to make it.
Det me make you well. Give me your name
and tell me how you feel, and the proof t,re it-
ment is yours at my cost. No hills of a'ny kind-
no papers—nothing but my absolute good-will
and good faith.
DR. JAMES W. KIDD,
Box 506, rCRT WAYNH, IND.
NOTE. —Dr. Kidd’s methods and his offer
are exactly as represented in every respect.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
Caution- —Genuine Chlorodyne.
Every bottle of this well-known
Remedy for DIABRH(EA,
DYSENTERY, FEVERS,
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS, &c- bears on the
Stamp the name of the Inventor- —
Pr. J. COLLIS BROWN 6
THE ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS of
Sept. 28, 1895, says :
* If I were asked which single medicine I should
prefer to take abroad with me, as likely to be
most generally useful, to the exclusion of all
others, I should say Chlobodynk. I never travel
without it, and its general applicability to the
relief of a large number of ample ailments forms
its best recommendation.”
DON’T PIT YOUR DOCTOR
\
5?
%
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
fbAHE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
JL plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only'-in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
oup doctors to keep us ill. Theip ppospepity depends not on oup health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little mope than cleap out
the system op accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has peached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every crgan, and' ,
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worßs while you sleep* and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the-regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is a.S low a.S £1 in many cases.
rnrr nnni/ If you want to be Strong
mCb DUUfVa and Vigorous, with your veins, full of
———“ youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong-and-active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liße BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or CALL for Free Consultation. Hours— 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The McLaughlin co.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Casilereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
»
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Ailenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “ Adlenburys" DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Alleiihnrys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Ailenburys” Foods for Infants.
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd. : and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
W Jtl y r
cough C
Ta k e
£
A**
E M,
V
POWJDCVS
BALSAM OF ANISEED
fins wonderful Remedy has stood the test for 80 years as the one Safe and Reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS,
and all THROAT AND LUNG TROUBLES.
It affords immediate relief and a speedy cure. Read the following proof of Its efficacy—
The Rkvd. Wm. Lush writes from Stixwold Vicarage, Horncastle:—“ For the past twelve years I hare
been in the habit of using myself, giving away, and recommending your Balsam. I should not be
exaggerating if I said I had never known it to fail. Whenever I have a cough I use it in preference to
ai yi. .ing else, and again and again it.has cured me.”
Powells Balsam of Aniseed has proved itself to be the most effectual remedy for Coughs Colds,
Bronchitis, etc., etc. A cold nipped in the bud has often saved a life, and there is no surer or safer
preventive from the serious consequences of a neglected cold than a few doses of this excellent prepara-
tion. It shjuld be one of the first aids kept in the house.”— The Gentleman's Journal.
Of all Chemists and Stores. Observe the Trade Mark bn the outer wrapper.
Proprietors:—THOS. POWELL, Ltd., BLACKFRIARS, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland —
ELLIOT BROS., Ltd., O’Connell Street, Sydney, & Eagle Street. Brisbane.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd


Piles Pe
Nile Cured
Suffered Untold Agony for Five Long Years—Operation Averted.
Hi
m
v- a&SS
Mr. d. O’HANLON (from a photo.).
man, j
which
I lie agony of Piles is. as excruciating as the disease itself is weakening,
-riles are due to congestion, of the hemorrhoid veins, the circulation of blood
being obstructed and the veins made varicose, projecting as small tumours.
P*?^ ru ®* on ® ma y be . internal or external, and of two kinds—' “ blind” and
bleeding. The pain is often so intense that the patient is unable to walk,
while in some cases bleeding is so free as to constitute a grave danger. Pull
particulars as to how to apply Zam-Buk with the best results are contained in
the full direction-sheet round each pot. Zam-Buk subdues the pain, the
inflammation, and enables rest and comfort to come to the worn-out sufferer.
surely, the Piles went com-
pletely away. I feel a new
ind have not been troubled with this distressing complaint for the past year,
proves conclusively that Zam-Buk cures surely and permanently.”
“ For five years I was troubled with bleeding and protruding Piles,” says Mr. J. O’Hanlon, of
uc zei -street, orse Shoe Bend, Gympie, Q., “during which time I tried many remedies, both
in eina anc ex erna , and also consulted a doctor. All the so-called remedies I tried, however, failed
o cute le tiou e, and the doctor strongly advised me to undergo an operation, assuring me that I
s ou c no ge ri o t e Piles unless I had therh cut out. I was suffering great agony; intense
in amma ion a se in, sitting down was out of the question; and I was rapidly becoming
incapacitated for work. At this time I chanced to come r J °
across a sample pot of Zam-Buk, and commenced
to use it before making up my mind to
undergo the operation advised by the
doctor. The first application of the
Balm brought immediate relief, cool-
ing and soothing the aching parts.
I continued with the Zam-Buk
treatment, and gradually, but
Aches and Pains.
Pain, even when deep-seated, flies before the far-
reaching influence of Zam-Buk, as it soaks into skin,
flesh, and muscle, and is literally “ killed.” Zam-Buk is
a particularly good embrocation for rheumatism, lum-
bago, sciatica, and other affections of the fibrous
n nnnUfJlf e J Od /-. These excruciating pains usually
the "joints of the lumbar region, and may
becaused through cold or damp. Zam-Buk should be
am , vl «' or . ous| y rubbed in for several minutes each
night and morning.
What Zam-Buk Balm Cures.
Zam-Buk Balm, the world’s greatest skin-healer, is a
speedy cure for Eczema, Piles, Ulcers, Boils, Ringworm,
Bad Legs, Sore Backs, Psoriasis, Inflammation, Rashes,
Eruptions, Festering Sores, Swellings, Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Cold in the Head and Chest, and all diseased or
injured conditions of the skin. Price Is. 6d., or 3s. 6d.
large family pot (CONTAINING NEARLY 4 TIMES
Is. 6d) from all Chemists and Stores, or from the
Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney, for same price.
ŀ
CONTAINS
NOANIMALOILorFAT
ANY MINERAL
I
rri!L
fiU&
CUTS
BRUISED
- „ SORESBURNS
Dun,» PILES-PIMPLESECZEMA
Rheumatism-sciatica-bad legs,
SORE H EADS & BACKSCHAPPED HANDS,
Business, Robbery, etc.
The story of the Creation seems to be all wrong
first God made the grocer, and then, as an afterthought
He made the other people for the grocer’s convenience!
That, anyway, appears to be the theory of W. F. Wyatt
manager of the Gippsland Butter Factories 00-o'perative
Cx>., who assured the Melbourne grocers the other day
that, as for the use of preservatives, that was a matter
that only concerned the producers and the health autho-
rities, and was one of those things the public ought not to
know too much about." The assembled grocers cordially
approved this sentiment, and then proceeded to resolve
that, in future, they should be allowed to mark their
packages as “coffee and chicory,” or “chicory and
coffee, as the case might be, instead of having to put
the actual percentage on the label. But really why
coddle the public by mentioning the chicory at all?
* * * «
The number of clothing manufacturers who
•?? .'F !. n a . year would make a long list. Mostly it
is the old calico-importing warehouses’ fault. Many of
these warehouses were put into big, well-watered cos.
before Protection came along* in N.S. Wales, and some of
the profits they used to make out of importing sweated
shoddy they now make by sweating the local clothing
manufacturer. If a man has any, vague sort of idea of
starting a factory, let him call at the average wholesale
J? el * P lent >' ot encouragement,
tie li nna that there is a heap of work waiting* for
him—m fact, the warehouse people will guarantee
several months’ work. So he puts in his couple of
hundred pounds. Then the warehouse proceeds to get
that couple of hundred pounds. It gives the new
factory man just enough hope to make him graft like
fury ; presently, when his ready cash goes, he has to
start pawning his plant; and in three cases out of four—in
Sydney, anyway—the proceeds of that go too. Meantime
the factory has got credit elsewhere ; and when the end
comes, those outside creditors find themselves withabout
ss. in the £. The other 155., as well as the little factory-
man’s capital and his desperate slavery, have gone to fatten
the warehouse, which has got its goods at all that much
below actual cost price. That process hasn’t been gone
through merely once ; it has been repeated at least 20
times in the last four years in Sydney, until, in fact, it
has come to be almost recognised as one of the tricKs of
the trade.
British underwriters have been badly hit of
late by a crop of disasters to sailing vessels. Compara-
tively few sailing vessels are built nowadays, so the sail-
ing fleet becomes, on the average, older and older each
year for want of a decent birth-rate. Then, again, there
is hardly any passenger trade now for the old windjam-
mers, and thus there is less inducement to keep them in
condition. So the underwriters have suddenly “ kited”
their insurance rates, and fixed them on a sliding scale
according to the venerableness of the hulk —30s. per cent,
on the Australian voyage for a vessel 15 years old; 555.
for a 30-year-old vessel; 85s. for the Noah’s Ark aged 40
years, and so on. But nobody has thought of boosting
up the pay of the sailor men according to the age of the
patriarchal ship. Jack and Hans and Antonio remain
just where they were.
* * • *
The imported article again. Sworn in a Sydney
court that sewing-machines sold on time-payment at
£l3, are invoiced at £2 12s. 6d.
* • * »
South Aus. scraped 50,000 tons of salt off itself
last year, and exported 42,000 tons of it ; the rest was
swallowed locally, or was lost in the refining process. In
1891 the business only ran to about 7000 tons but that
was before interstate Freetrade and more or less Protec-
tion against the rest of the world arrived The salt comes
up out of the ground with the water that floods the 30
or 40 Yorke’s Peninsula lagoons in the winter. When the
water goes the salt stays, and then the local inhabitant
rushes it with any scraper that is handiest, and dumps it
at the refinery. How long it will be before the “ lakes ”
get tired or worn out nobody knows, but they are as
good as new so far.
« « * *
A large shipping firm in Melbourne recently
received an order from a crusted old Australian Tory to
send “home” a package of tweeds. This package of
cloth had a disgraceful history. The unamiable Tory
grew the w'ool by Australian grass and water on Aus-
tralian sheep. Then he deported it to England to be
made up into tweed. Later on, it was sent back to Aus-
tralia for approval, and, on the pattern being approved,
the contemptible owner has now' despatched it to be
made up into a Bond-street suit on a self-measurement
plan, since he does not consider our best Australian
“ cut ” equal to the results of the quite inadequate self-
measurement idea. This is a fact, though it doesn’t
sound at all probable.
* * * *
The columns of the great dailies devoted to
trade, finance, and commerce are a distressing feature.
The constant daily effort is to make the ordinary sub-
scriber believe that the lives of the York-street importer,
and of the Sussex-street seller of things by at least the
half-dozen, are beset by dangers and difficulties beside
which the recent Wall-street panic is but an interlude.
As a matter of fact, the chief obstacle in the commercial
editor’s path is the unanimous decision of York-street to
stay at home when it rains, or Sussex-street’s general
adjournment to the Show. The last season’s gamble in
jute was a veritable God-send, and the papers are busy
dishing up the morsel to this day. Recently S.M.
Herald sprawled across its commercial news,. “Maize
Excited.” Analysis showed that a 100-ton boat had
struck on a Northern river bar, and maize in consequence
had gone up a penny a bag. The most crumpled rose
leaf in the commercial reporter’s life is, however,
that, should eggs go up 3d. a dozen, or the “ visible
supply ” of bananas run out, an unfeeling editor polishes
the item up, and plants it in “News of the Day,” in the
front column, when the reporter wanted it all for his own
page.
“Jin .Ricksha ” from Shanghai: This is from
the North China Daily News, which until quite lately
yelped for the Japs, and called them “our brave and
patriotic allies,” arid said it was proud of them :—“ In
the matter of the counterfeiting' of trade marks grave
allegations may be heard against the Japanese, and it is
even thought that, whether from ignorance or innocence,
or both, the Government has accorded sanction to the
most immoral proceeding of wholesale piracy with the
deliberate object of encouraging unfair competition. In
fact the offence has passed from an individual to a national
one." I gave this paper most convincing proof of these
dodges two years ago, but was then pooh-poohed. The
passing of the one-time extensive British shipping in the
North China Seas almost exclusively into the hands of
Japanese companies (by means of secret rebates, paid
with Japanese Government money, and other low
nefarious dodges) has at last opened the eyes of the
stodgy British merchant and his class here regarding
their future prospects with the dear little J.ap?
« * » i
“Rhaupo” : Great business men are some of
these cow-farmers. One, near Stroud (N.S.W.), in spite of
working hard himself, and making his brood do the same,
couldn’t keep his head above water. His principal creditor
arrived at last to go into things. The cow-farmer had
kept most of his cream-receipts threaded on a bit of wire,
and produced them triumphantly to show the poverty of
the game. Among them were between 30 and 40 cheques
for a total of £179. Sometimes, it seems, the man was
paid in cash, sometimes by cheque. He knew what cash
was, but the cheques were beyond him, and he reckoned
they had “something to do with book-keepin’.” And
he didn’t understand “book-keepin’.”
* » » »
“P.X.”: Cohenheim, who was down in Mel-
bourne for the Epsom, told me this, though his hands
told more :
“ Urgh ! No ! Too tarn brosperous, tat’s vash the
mattair. I choost been to de varehouse—Mcßrown’s
varehouse. I know Mcßrown—teal vit’ tem for years.
Mcßrown’s not vot tey yoost to pe, though—pah !
“Fearst time I vent bong, you remember, Mcßrown
lose a leetle, —aw, notting vairtb mentioning, two honnert
pount!
“ Den I haf a fire—you know my fire ; I lose a lot of
moneysh then. I did, my vairt—alia bulk stuff, vou
know. Mcßrown—velL some of it vas his stuff, unt,
of course, I couldn’t pay, could I, vot ? Very heavy loss,
yes, my fire. But Mcßrown—veil, it vas a mattair of a
ontert and feefty. But, you know, I been dealin’ vit tent
for years, yes.
“Den, veil, .you know, four year ago, the tarn cockies
vouldn’t pay anybotty, and I haf to go bong last year—
couldn’t help it; dey vouldn’t pay. I came down and
see Mcßrown. 1 Veil,’ he say, ‘ vot can you pay ? ’ ‘ Veil,’
I say, ‘ I scrape up tree ontert pount," and I owe nine
ontert. Ain’t got another bean, s’help me.’ Und dey
say dey never expected it.
“Now—urgh! Veil, vot you tink ? I go to Mcßrown’s.
‘ Veil, Mister Mcßrown,’l say. ‘I start again—unt how
do I stand fora leetle account?’ Remember, I dealt vit
tern for years. Mcßrown he say : ‘ Mister Cohenheim,
ve shall be most please to supply you for cash.’ * Cash ? ’
I say, very polite, ‘ Oh, very many tanks.’ Cash 1 Vot a
vay to treat a man 1 ”
* * * *
Sydney is seriously threatening London as the
leading wool mart of the world, and London is so used to
regarding itself as the hub of the commercial universe in
everything, that to be challenged by a mere Australian
centre on such a staple product as wool is held to be next
door to a crime. Some London brokers have, therefore,
started to bombard Australian wool-growers by circular,
pointing out the foolishness of selling in Sydney when
London is calling for the commission. They allege that
to sell in London, despite the extra cost of handling and
the higher London charges, is really a benefit to the
grower, because wool, on its voyage across the ocean,
absorbs much moisture, and they say that the guileless
buyer pays for water when he thinks he is buying wool.
That tale might have been swallowed once. But nowa-
days the grower has met the guileless buyer, and knows
that all the water he will pay for as wool can be carried
in a sieve.
* * * »
“Early closin’ hurt me?” said the cabman.
“ Not much ! Yer see, I alwuz carry a good supply o’
supper beer, an’ when fellers git in me cab I alwuz tell
’em to be careful o’ me beer, ’n’ not to spill it. That leads
to an understandin’, an’—well, I’m worltin’ up a steady
connection.”
A considerable proportion of the footballs
kicked in Australia this winter will be of our own manu-
facture. Murrels and Becker, of Brisbane, are now the
leading football makers of the Commonwealth. Orders
received by them from Sydney alone amount to 280 ,
dozen balls. Bedell-Sievwright, captain of the last Eng-
lish team that visited Australia, pronounced balls of
Murrels and Becker’s make equal to the best English, .
whereby he quite astonished Stinking Fish and Co.
* * * •'
Apropos Dr. Black’s Melbourne corner block (B.
11/4/’O7). Nicholson’s corner—half-acre—diagonally op-
posite, purchased in 1837 for £45 by Henry Howie, was
valued in 1888 at £493,500. Talk of unearned increment!
* * » *
Under the Commerce Act provisions an order
has been issued that in future no goods branded “silk
merveilleux ” are to be imported unless the shipment is
qualified by the term “ artificial or imitation silk.” The
ordinary shopper, whose recollection of her school
French is enough to inform her that “ merveilleux ”
means “ marvellous,” thinks the trade term applies to
the quality of the silk, and that it must be high-grade
stuff. As a matter of fact, it is some vegetable substance,
and, though marvellous, it is not silk nor any relation
thereto.
* » * *
“ Oby” : Those Customs rows over potato brandy
lead many Australians to suppose that the tuber should
not appear otherwise than baked, boiled, or mashed. But
the tuber is in almost everything. Nearly all our imita-
tion ivory is potato ; a good deal of our sugar and most
of our starch. Knife handles, napkin rings, combs,
brushbacks, and half the articles of the toilet tabid, are
potato. It is just how the spud is treated that should
make it welcome or the reverse. If the greedy or clumsy
French and Teuton distillers worked the murphy pro-
perly, it would be as serviceable in the flowing bowl as in
the dry one. Tobacco is becoming day by day more
potato. The very finest Mexican cigars are now half
potato, and connoisseurs call the pungent potato flavor
the essence of tobacco excellence. The potato’s destiny
is to be all-pervading.
WALL-STREET AND I.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The recent panic in Wall-street is ascribed to what
threatens to be a long-continued shortness of gold.
Cable.
Wall-street and I
(Oh ! mention it with bated breath)
Are short of gold ! !
(As I am like to be until my death—
>, /ntil I to the thousand pasts am sold—
Until I die !)
So let to us thy deepest pity be—
Wall-street and me !
Until I saw
The cable stating this so-pregnant fact,
I did not know'
That mine and Wall-street’s interests were intact—
That outward flow
Of gold, true to the law
Of grim exchange, had made unfree
Wall-street and me !!
Wall-street and I
(It matters not who knows the fatal truth)
Are short of gold !!!
My beauty hath been dimmed, and eke my youth
Careless and bold.
So, we must die.
There is not gold enough to succor We—
Wall-street and ME !!!
Too cruel this !
That gold should be so coveted by Wall-
Street and myself!
If tears were aught, then Wall-street
Should have all
Of mine, and I would take its pelf !
Oh 1 Erebus and Dis !
Engulf thou us on each side of the sea—
Wall-street and ME ! M !
VIC.
RANDOLPH BEE.
WAIL OF A WILLY BOY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day is grey and gloomy through the drear, undusted
pane ;
The office murmurs, niggling at its books.
The head clerk cheeks and totals with a buzzing in his
brain,
And sudden-death-and-judgment in his looks.
I’m back once more in Melbourne, where my cruel lot is
cast,
Among the city’s crowding smells and cries,
A-dreaming of lone beaches —and, far in the glorious
past,
The scent of brown hair blown across my eyes !
The typiste, sad, unsmiling, clatters on her fretful way ;
The duster-John comes crawling in, a-grin,
While down the well-worn figure-tracks we gallop all the
day ;
The boss goes out; the office-boys begin
To hurl themselves with dreadful sounds like thunder
down the stair,
And wake me from my dreams of glad surprise—
That lovely night I sat upon the beach and felt her hair,
Wild hair, wind-loosened, blown across my eyes.
The beaches are deserted, and the girls who owned thf
pier
Have given up their game to tread the Block ;
And we’ve come back to Melbourne, back to work and
thrip’ny beer,
To watch the lazy hands crawl round the clock.
No more can we philander in the ti-tree by the sea,
Forgetting how the perfumed evening flies ;
Ah, me ! The unkind Now, and that insidious memory
Of brown hair blowing wild across my eyes !
VIC.
FRANK HETY.


HaymarKet, Sydney, N..S'.W.
S6c LEADING
HOUSE
FOR.
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
I M "
lll I I
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14s
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
4in., 7/0 ea. ; sin.. 9/0 each
Answers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
I
[CAN'T
B
BEAT
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any formi of' B ™ n
Breathing, Hoarseness, &in or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Co ds on the Chest it is mja
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither a lows a Cough or Asthma to beco
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where ••Coughs” have been properly treated with this medi-ine.
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations 2 The great success of HEARME’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects tha
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this ac ,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable loc lly.
M —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1A does NOT contain any poison within the meaning o* the Act. it is equaJly toene cia
IS yJ II V •-■ the youngest child and the most »ged person. —— ■ —~
ASK, FOR,
BOSISTOS
“PARROT
BRAND
EUCALYPTUS OIL
and REFUSE
THE DEAF HEAR
DEAF persons need not despair. Out of the mass
I of failures has come a genuine success. Head
' noises are cured and deaf made to hear so.
effectively that they wonder if they really were
deaf. Particulars of a startling discovery, based
upon the science of Metallic Galvanic Electricity,
that will assist al! persons suffering from Deafness,
fully described.
pnEC By sending name and address to THE
rllElia L. R. VERNON CO., 60-64 Hunter-
street, Sydney, you will receive a description of
this method, which will enable you to restore your
hearing ahtuvery slight expense; and you will be
delighted to learn how easily you can obtain relief.
The Standard Remedy which'has outlived the Centune*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
. r CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
A.k vour chemist for .its history-the book is free-or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambetli Road, London, Eng.
A
POLICY for thic COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id. .
r?
J»J
COCK:
hßirt is your CUE
When ordering Billiard
„ REQUISITES OR
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Alcock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth.
Wellington,NZ&l°ndon.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Bkakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
10l KING ST., SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
LAD3ES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSING SALOON. TRANSFORMATIONS made on the latest,
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, TOILET
REQUISITES, and all accessories in stock. Ladies’ Homes visited. Combines made up.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. Telephonic 2138.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DRESSING ROOMS ON GROUND FLOOR.
m
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, la. PACKET OF TE3l r IML 1
SULPHUR
BITTERS
Poor
Weak and
Weary Mothers
Raise
Puny, Pindling
Children.
Sulphur Bitters
Will make them
Strong, hearty
And healthy.
LEARN to HYPNOTIZE!
J*'?'
INSTRUCTION FREE;!
TTvnnnt.iflt in a few h°
mo i r\uv» « ivm ■
You cau become a Hypnotist in a ew
time without leaving your borne. * dghi p
sway the minds oi others, con* t (i habits,
ami affection, cure disease af"d baa
amhit.ions and produce an “7
*. my
I Lesson or Key to Hypnotism you
free of charge and postage paid, wr/ cout iiis
allahout this marvelous science. s hoiß
beautiful and artistic engravings, an
you just what Hypnotism is and
what it will accomplish. Sen< J*°
it and learn to Hypnotize thi» won
iul book costs you nothing. I y
tion this paper, I will aiso include a large
nackaee of other valuable, interesting,
and profusely illustrated litMatuw, with-
out charge. A chance of a life-'me.
Writ© to-day. Address
Write to-day. Atiuress _
Prof. R. H. BARRADEN, B 9 Pitt St., Sydn *
ł
ON THE HOP
Tub bulletin .Office, 8) ne -
Price 21s.


WHOOPING
COUGH.
At the present time
there is a severe
epidemic of Whoop-
ing Cough prevalent every where.
Many anxious mothers will , e:d
with interest the following in-
formation on this distressing complaint, and if they carry out
the instructions given, will speedily relieve their little ones’
suffering, and restore them to their usual good health.
SYMPTOMS.
It is at first manifested by a catarrhal cough, gradually
developed. After a while it becomes paioxysmal, generally
worse at night. The cough is severe, and long-continued ; when
a prolonged inspiration occurs, it is accompanied by a peculiar
shrill sound, the characteristic whoop, which, when once heard,
is never forgotten. The cough is attended by a copious secretion
of glairy mucus, which is brought up at the latter part of the
paroxysm. During, or at the end of the paroxysm, vomiting
frequently occurs, and sometimes nose bleed. The cough is so
severe at times that the patient turns purple, gasps for breath,
and presents all the symptoms of suffocation. Bronchitis some-
times is a troublesome complication. Immediately preceding a
paroxysm of coughing a sense of impending danger appears to
seize the child, and it turns to its mother, or grasps some support,
as if for protection. Until the paroxysmal character and peculiar
whoop is developed, the disease is diagnosed with difficulty.
CURE.
The medicine that will most speedily and surely cure
Whooping Cough is DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
for Coughs, Colds and Consumption. It will loosen the cough
and render expectoration easy, and will stop the fits of coughing
in a remarkably short time.
It should be given in doses as follows every three hours
until the child improves :
Children under 2 years ... Half Teaspoonful.
Children of 4 years ... Three-qtrs. Teaspoonful.
Children over 6 years ... One Teaspoonful.
It is impera-
tive that the child
be kept in a warm
room, and be warmly clothed.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DIS-
COVERY is sold by all medicine
vendors throughout the Common-
wealth of Australia and New Zealand
at Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle;
also at ss. for large con-
tainer for hospital purposes.
Dr. Sheldon's
New
Discovery.
.9
Nine-tenths of the ills which humanity endures, with more or less patience, are unnecessary ill*
For instance: —
Rheumatism
Gout
Neuralgia
Lumbago
Sciatica
Blood Disorders
Anaemia
Indigestion
Biliousness
Jaundice
Bright’s Disease
Gravel
Stone
Bladder Troubles
General Debility
Sick Headache
are readily curable. One and all arise from the failure of the
KIDNEYS AND LIVER
t o efficiently perform their functions. These important organs, when acting healthily, deal with and
r emove from the system the poisonous matter which causes the disorders.
The Kidneys filter and extract from the blood about three pints of urine every day. In this
quantity of urine are dissolved about an ounce of urea, ten to twelve grains in weight of uric acid, to-
gether with other animal and mineral matter varying from a third of an ounce to nearly an ounce.
When the kidneys are in health, all this solid matter is in solution and is invisible. Directly the
kidneys, through either weakness or disease, become unfit to do their duty properly, a proportion of
this solid matter remains in the blood, becomes actively poisonous and causes us to suffer from uric
disorders such as Hheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Gravel,
Stone, Bladder Troubles, and Bright’s Disease. A simple test to make as to the condition of
the kidneys is to place some urine, passed the first thing in the morning, in a covered glass, and let it
stand until next morning. If it is then cloudy, or there is a brick-dust like sediment, or if particles
float about in it, or it is of an unnatural color, the kidneys are not healthy and no time must be lost in
adopting remedial measures, or Bright’s Disease, Diabetes, or soine less serious but more painful ill-
ness will result.
The Liver. —ln the liver various substances are actually made from the blood. Two or three
pounds of bile are thus made from the blood every day. The liver takes sugar from the blood, con-
verts it into another form, and stores it up so as to be able to again supply it to the blood, gradually,
as the latter requires enrichment. The liver changes uric acid, which is insoluble, into urea, which is
completely soluble, and the liver also deals with blood corpuscles which have lived their life and are
useful no longer. When the liver is inactive or diseased we suffer from Indigestion, Biliousness,
Anaemia, Sick Headache, and Blood Disorders.
The health of the liver and of the kidneys is so closely connected that it is almost impossible for
the kidneys to be affected, and the liver to remain healthy, or vice versa.
It is nearly thirty years since scientific research directed specially to diseases of the Kidneys and
Liver was rewarded by the discovery of the medicine now known throughout the world as
Warner’s Safe Cure.
It was realised, at the outset of the investigation, that is was necessary to find a curative ageut which
would act equally upon the kidneys and upon the liver, these organs being so immediately associated
in the work of dealing with the body’s waste material, and, after many disappointments, the medlcihe
which possessed the required action in the fullest degree was at length discovered. Warner’S Safe
Cure cures all diseases of the kidneys and liver, and, by restoring their activity, these
vital organs are enabled to rid the body, through the natural channels, of tne urinary and biliary
poisons,' the presence of which, in the system, are the cause of Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia,
Lumbago, Backache, Sciatica, Blood Disorders, Anaemia, Indigestion, Biliousness, Jaundice, Sick
Headache, Gravel, Stone, Bladder Troubles and General Debility. Warner’s Safe Cure cures all these
disorders simply by removing the cause of the disorder. This is the reason why cures effected by
Warner’s Safe Cure are permanent cures. . * [1
The Trial.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TOM the driver was straight and white —
Sort of man I am proud to know—
He hailed me : “ Come for a run to-night,
We’re taking the Big Tank out for a blow ;
She’s a stubborn hog from wheel to dome,
And it’s ten to one she’ll prime on the hill;
But by midnight certain we’ll have you home,
your wife won’t miss you. So come on,
4| Bill! ”
She came to the door, and smiled at him ;
She looked at me in a tender way,
With the grey of her dear eyes all a-swim—
She had been by herself the whole long day.
Then I thought of the gait of the swift old Tank,
Her reckless rushing through cuttings dark,
With whirling wheel and spinning crank,
And whistle barking its vicious bark.
And what a picture the long train made
When we leaned and looked at the glittering cars
As she wound her way up the heavy grade
With hard blast shaking the trembling stars !
I thrilled at the thought, but my wife’s white hand
Liy like a snowflake, soft on my knee,
And I’m not so dull, but I understand
That all day long she had wanted me.
So I said, “ I’m staying at home to-night,
But I wish you luck, and I’ll hear you blow
When you run her back to the station light,
For the Tank’s is a whistle I ought to know.”
And Tom laughed loud as he went his way,
“We’ll be making trials. You’ll wish you’d
come.”
And my wife’s laugh echoed his, sweet and gay :
“ He has trials enough with me, at home.”
When midnight struck on a steamer’s bell.
The Big Tank blew as she reached the yard,
So soft, it seemed she had news to tell
Of one who had striven and then died hard.
I heard the sigh of her Westinghouse,
And the clank of the chains as they took her off—
Creeping along like a mammoth mouse,
Trying to smother her chronic cough.
Tom, the driver, was killed that night
When her gauge-glass burst on the Paikolt Hill—
Tom, the driver, so straight and white.
Lying covered and white and still!
I thought, like a coward, of that white hand,
Soft as a snowflake, laid on my knee,
And, dull as I am, I understand
How much all day she had wanted me.
MAORILAND.
Will Lawson.
The “School” on the Rocks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AH SAM was no longer one of the
“boys.” He had forced his way into
the sacred inner circle by sheer hardness
of knuckles. He maintained his position there
for some time by the same convincing agencies.
On three occasions something had been said about
the indignity of having a “ Chinkie ” in the
“push.” Ah Sam promptly proved this to be
a slander, and did it so convincingly that all the
niceties of “push” etiquette were deemed satisfied.
Yet, for reasons which were considered sufficient
and justifiable, Ah Sam had been turned down by
the gang. All knew, though, that there might yet
dawn a great day—the day when Ah Sam would en-
counter Slogger Bill. Slogger Bill was large,
and lazy, and slow to move. Nothing worth
having a mix-up about had yet occurred during
his sober spells ; and, as the Slogger had not,
when in his cups, had the good fortune to meet
Ah Sam, peace existed between them.
Ah Sam rented a little back-room in a house
which, being fortunately squeezed up between
two others, was prevented from falling among
the tins, loose bricks, and other ruins which
sprinkled the immediately adjacent landscape.
The house was in one of the narrowest, steepest,
and dirtiest streets on the Rocks. Ah Sam’s
occupation came under the general head of
“ dealer.” He spoke English—as she is spoke on
the Rocks—fluently. He took a lively part in
the sports and pleasures of the rising manhood of
the locality, as lar as he was permitted ; and when
affliction’s hand fell heavily on the “push” he
shared the tribulation of the hour. He made no
noise when he was turned out by the gang, but he
thought about it a lot, and thought often ; and
when a Chinaman like Ah Sam takes to thinking,
as likely as not something happens some time.
When the police raided the favorite “ two-up ”
school, Ah Sam sorrowed with the rest. And
during the period of tribulation he did some more
thinking, with the result that one morning he
arrived at a conclusion. Then he walked forth,
and his little eyes twinkled. Turning into a back
lane, his passage along which was momentarily
disputed by an aged goat of the William per-
suasion, he saw Slogger Bill; whereupon the
merriment in his eyes descended to his mouth.
Slogger Bill was out of sorts; and his mother, who
was—she frequently complained that she always
was—slaving at the wash-tub in the shed, wisely
let him remain undisturbed on the backdoor-step
blinking in the sun. Ah Sam kicked the creaking
gate open, crossed the dirty yard, and sat beside
him on the step. He lit a stump of a cigarette,
and spoke.
“ Two-up knocked all out, eh ?”
The cat of a neighbor was sneaking across the
yard near the bottom fence. Slogger Bill reached
stealthily for the butt end of a broken bottle
which was lying handy.
“ I wish I’d ’a’ known that that there bloke was
a pimp,” he remarked.
“ So do I,” said Ah Sam ; “it would have been
good. What would you have done, Bill, eh ? ”
The cat had nearly reached the gate. Bill
slowly raised his arm, and the broken bottle
whizzed through the suds-tainted atmosphere.
The cat, prompted by an instinct which
years of hazardous life had developed to an acute
point, escaped sudden death by a leap of about
four feet into the air. The bottle, passing under the
flying animal, was shattered against the fence.
There was that in the expression of Bill’s face, in
the vindictiveness of the throw, which rendered a
reply to the query unnecessary.
“ Huh,” grunted Ah Sam, appreciatively. “So
would I.”
After a sympathetic silence Ah Sam spoke
again. Slogger Bill seemed to doze under the in-
fluence of the quiet voice. But gradually he
shook off his listlessness. For the Chinaman was
confiding to him a plan to outwit the police, and
to carry on the gaffing school unmolested.
The outcome of this backdoor-step plotting
was that Slogger Bill called a meeting of
“the boys,” Ah Sain was re-instated, and at
a subsequent meeting the new idea was put in
working order, and a prospectus secretly circu-
lated among the young sports on the Rocks. It
was a simple plan ; merely the formation of a
club. For Ah Sam explained that the “Johns”
fought shy of clubs. All that was necessary was
to fit up a place and put in a second-hand billiard
table, a few packs of cards, and some oddsand ends.
In the cellar, which would have private communi-
cation with a lane, a “ring” could be established.
Membership was fixed at £l, cash up. Ah Sam
added to his glory as author of the scheme by
declining to hold any office. He said he did not
Want to hear any remarks about his trying to
tnake money out of it.
It was a treat to see the members roll up, and
the pounds roll in. Slogger Bill was elected
treasurer, and the position of secretary was given
to Conley Sims, so called by reason of his nose
having been put out of shape by a scientific gentle-
man during the course of an argument about a
lady. An instalment was paid in connection with
the lease of suitable premises, and tenders called
for the fitting up and furnishing. But here
trouble began. The lowest tender, if accepted,
would have left the club suddenly penniless.
Ah Sam’s genius again showed the way out.
He knew a man—a Chinaman —who would under-
take the work ; and the price would be only £135.
including the second-hand billiard-table. There
was no doubt about Ah Sam’s popularity after
that. He was authorised to close the bargain,
which he did, and the work was soon in hand.
Slogger Bill was appointed general manager at
a suitable salary, which, with other expenses,
was to come out of the profits of the “school.”
He kept a close eye on the progress of the
work, and varied the duty with the pleasant
task of receiving subscriptions.
One evening, when things were nearly finished
and the Chinese carpenters were knocking off,
the foreman handed the Slogger a letter. It
was a request for a progress payment of £lOO,
according to agreement. A meeting was called ;
the money was voted in a regular way; and
the next day, at noon, in the bar-parlor of the
Green Goat Hotel, was duly paid over in the
presence of Slogger Bill, Conky Sims, and Ah
Sam. A bottle of whisky, paid for out of the
club’s funds, was consumed as a detail befitting
the ceremony.
Slogger Bill was beginning to plume himself on
his business abilities. As manager of the club he
considered he had somewhat of a position to up-
hold. He filled in his spare time drafting a code
of rules for the guidance of members. The code
ordered them, in ten different ways, not to ex-
pectorate on the floor. On the second morning
after the payment of the progress money, he
strolled over to the club premises. It was a lovely
morning. Unclean children, free from care,
sported joyously in the gutters. The goats fos-
sicked among the debris on vacant allotments.
All Nature on the Rocks seemed glad it was a fine
day. Slogger Bill’s pulses quickened with a sense
of his increasing importance. He entered the
now nearly-completed club. A little Chinaman
was waiting for him, and gave him “ Good
morning.”
“ Well?” queried the Slogger, not ungraciously,
for him,
“My name Wun Lung,” said the Chinaman,
smiling. “ You the boss ? ”
“Yes.”
“ Good. I come see you ; you not in, so I wait.
You like work, eh ? ” waving his hand to indicate
the improvements generally.” “ All lite, eh ?
Yousatisfi?”
“ Wot’s the matter wiv yer?” asked the
Slogger?
“Oh, I’m all li; firs’ late.”
“ Well, wot d’yer want ? ”
The Chinaman smiled again. “Some money,
you know. Plogless payment, ’colding to contlac,
for work here, you know.”
Any of the beauty of the morning which had
found reflection in Slogger Bill’s face faded; any
of the influence of the glorious day, which had
forced itself upon him and lifted him up, de-
parted, and left him the Slogger Bill his inti-
mates knew him.
“Wot the blazes d’yer mean?” he demanded,
taking a sudden step toward the Chinaman, who
nimbly retreated.
“You the boss,” he said ; “me the contlacter.
You pay me money, £lOO. See?”
“Why, strike me purple,” cried the Slogger.
“Wot yer cornin’ at? The money’s paid, two
days ago, and I’ve got the receipt. Wot game’s
this yer tryin’ on ?”
“No money. Me the contlacter,” repeated the
Chinaman.
“ I’ll put a mark on yer as I’ll know yer by, in
a minnit, if yer keep it up. I tell yer I’se paid
the money ; paid it to the chap wot’s been doin’
the work here.”
“ What name ? ” demanded the other.
“Sun Lee.”
It was the Chinaman’s turn to become excited.
“Him not contlacter,” he cried. “Him my
f olein an; me contlacter. Now then, you pay
me money ; £lOO ; quick, too.”
Slogger Bill made a sudden rush; but Wun
Lung passed through the door first. From the
pavement he again lifted up his voice.
“ Bling police up to you place an’ tell ’em ’bout
club. You soon pay ; my oath.”
Slogger Bill, fearing complications, hastened to
consult Conky Sims. But their combined wisdom
was insufficient for the emergency, and they
sought the assistance of the brainy Ah Sam. That
astute person was not at home. His landlady
expressed a warm desire for knowledge of his
whereabouts.
“ He ain’t bin a-nigh the place fur two days,”
she said. “He owes me fur five weeks’ rent, he
does, besides Bs. 6d. he borrowed. An’ he’s
sneaked his box away.”
Then Slogger and Conky Sims turned into the
nearest pub to think the situation out.
“ It’s a clean have,” said Conky.
“ Curse him ! ’’ said the Slogger.
“The cleanest game I ever see,” went on
Conky. “ Puts his mate up to gettin’ the money,
an’ the two on ’em does a get. Well thought out,
was _ V ery. An’ I reckon he thinks he’s about
square with the boys for boostin’ him out of the
gang.”
“I’ll get a-hold of him, some day,” remarked
the other.
“An’ wot are you agoin’ to do till you do?
Wot am I agoin’ to do? We can’t show up
there no more. We’d get ate up. Besides, the
other chap—wot’s his name?—Wun Lung—he’ll
go on inakin’ a noise about his hundred quid.
That’s a cert. Tell us; how much have we got
left?” ■
“About eighteen thick ’uns.
“Well, wot’s to be done?”
Slogger Bill pushed his empty pint-pot from
him and moved towards the door.
“I’ll do a get to-night,” he said. “Up coun-
try, somewhere, rabbit-trappin’.”
'“l’m with yer,” said Conky Sims.
HUNT COLEMAN.


WEAK, ACHING
VI f( >
n
/ i
BACKS.
Ache ! Ache! Ache! Takes all the
life, all the energy, out of you.
Makes you miserable. There is a
danger in it, too. Neglect the
warning of a had back, you ne-
glect an appeal from the kidneys.
When the back is bad—when
it’s lame or weak
—wdien it aches
-when it’s tired,
the kidneys are
sick demand
attention.
Doan’s
Backache
Kidney Pills
relieve quickly
the aches and
pains and weak-
ness of a bad
back. If you fail
to help the kid-
neys in time, Diabetes, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease, are sure
to follow. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are endorsed by
friends and neighbors, by people you know.
You think backache comes from fatigue. Sometimes it does. But ,
when it comes again and again, it is Kidneyache. The kidneys lie under
the small of the back , and a pain in the kidneys is felt in the small of the back.
SYDNEY WOriEN CURED OF
BACKACHE and KIDNEY TROUBLE.
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter-street, Sydney, says:—“ For three years I suffered with
kidney derangement. The worst symptom was a constant backache, which got worse
whenever I stooped. I tried many remedies for this complaint, but got no ease. I am
glad to say that I got a cure at last—Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me. They are
splendid pills, and have made a great difference in my health.” Eight years later Mrs.
Mullins, says:—“The above statement is true in every word, and I can now add the
important fact that my cure has lasted. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills deserve praise,
and I will always recommend them.”
Mrs. Gregg, living at 9 Enmore-road, Newtown, Sydney, says “ I had a bad
pain in my back and sides and for some months suffered much misery and discomfort
in consequence. It affected me very much when doing my work, and made me feel tired
out, and my limbs ached a good deal, sometimes I felt almost too tired to move. My
mother savv Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and advised me to get some. I
thought the word backache in the name sounded very hopeful, so I did get some. Relief
came soon after using them, and one box made the cure complete. They are splendid
pills for backache, and are a blessing to women.” Are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per Box (six boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan & Co., 76 Pitt-st., Sydney.
\
MiK&MNK.
Y«\mx?\vv&
DOAN’S OINTMENT.
ITCHING PILES CURED.
Mr. William Gilliver, of Gilliver and Son,
General Contractors, whose private address
is “Avoca,” Bankstown, writes:—“l have
previously written you stating that Doan’s
Ointment had cured me of Itching Piles
after twenty-two years’ affliction. I had let
eight months go by before I wrote that letter,
as I wished to see if the cure were a permanent
one, and it has proved to be so. I had used
many remedies in those twenty-two years
suffering, and could scarcely believe that
only half a pot of ointment could work such
a cure. Since I wrote first I have had more
lasting proof of the permanency of the good
this preparation has done me, I have had no
occasion to use Doan’s Ointment since; it
was a permanent cure. Many people have
written me about Doan’s Ointment, and I
advised them all to give it a trial, and now
I want to make a public statement, so that
all sufferers may know that Doan’s Oint-
ment will permanently cure Itching Piles.”
ECZEMA CUEED.
Mr. H. Boyd, 8 St. Andrew’s-street, Bal-
main, Sydney, says : —“ My little boy has
suffered with Eczema ever since he was six
months old. He was very bad, indeed ;we
had to muffle his hands, and cover his head,
tokeephim from scratching. The irritation
was frightful, especially at night time, after
he had been put to bed. We were always
using one remedy or another, but nothing
seemed able to give him relief until we got
Doan’s Ointment. A friend advised me to
use this preparation; she had used it with
great success on one of her children, and
told me that she was quite sure it would do
my boy good. Six boxes effected a complete
cure ; not a sign of the ailment remains. It
acted marvellously from the first, every ap-
plication giving instant relief.” Mrs. Boyd
says, three years later, “My little boy is
still free of the Eczema. It is not possible
for a remedy to do more than Doan’s Oint-
ment has done for him —a perfect and
permanent cure.”
Doan’s Ointment is splendid in all diseases of the skin, eczema, piles, hives,
insect bites, chilblains, etc. It Is perfectly safe, and very effective. Very often
two or three pots have cured chronic cases, which [have resisted other
treatment for years.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
REMEMBER THE NAME-DOAN’S.
An Idyll of the Mulga.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WE men, that seek in many lands
For wealth, and that which wealth
commands,
Oft find it cerecloth in our hands.
A shroud, a gloomy winding-sheet,
Wherein dead hopes that budded sweet
Are swathed and wrapped from head to feet.
We men that reach the golden gate
Oft find, by some dread jape of fate,
Our joys shut out, ourselves too late !
There is a lonely tract of land
Where nothing lies on either hand
Save mulga scrub ana barren sand;
And years ago a thirsty soul,
Drawn through the marches to his goal.
Sought out its single water-hole.
Buoyed up with hopes of waters sweet,
Through many leagues of blinding heat
He dragged in weariness his feet.
Expectantly he came, but there
Its dry bed, hot with shimmering air,
Flung up its message of despair.
Yet as he gazed, with drooping head
Among the pebbles of its bed,
He saw a wondrous gem instead.
But when that splendor on him burst,
With cracked and blackened lips he cursed
The wealth that would not slake his thirst.
Deep-seamed with sun-cracks and with rifts,
There stands a shingly knoll that lifts
Its head above the sandy drifts.
And on that single mound that peers
Across wide plains and through the years
His brooding spirit lies and leers.
A grievous skeleton he lies,
And stares into the brazen skies,
With empty socket-holes for eyes.
He grins with jaws bereft of lips,
As in his fleshless fist he grips
A gem the bones but half eclipse.
The crooked fingers round it close,
Yet through the chinks it burns and glows
As from its calyx bursts a rose.
And all day long, and from afar,
No cloud or mist its rays to mar,
It beckons like an evil star ;
A mockery of that sorry sum
Of Toil and Hope ; that whitened, numb,
And shattered thing that lieth dumb.
There is an old wife, grey and grim,
Her eyes, through many vigils, dim,
That waits and watches still for him.
She knows not that he lies and leers,
Hugging his wealth throughout the years,
Insensate of her toils and tears.
via
C.G.A. COLLES.
The Master of the Water.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A SMALL crowd of agitated persons
was looking excitedly into the river
close to the bridge where a little boy had
just tumbled in.
“Can’t anybody do anything? Isn’t there
anybody that can swim?” wailed a woman that
was by. “Must we see him drown? He could
be saved now. I saw him roll in myself ! 0 !
what can we do ?” Then she ran, calling out as
she went, up the bank to the road to get assistance.
On the way, she passed others who hastened
down, having seen from the bridge that some-
thing was wrong.
A smart, business-looking man, on his road to
the city, took up the tale.
“ What! Not anyone able to swim in the whole
crowd?” He paced to and fro on the bank,
flinging his arms about and waving a newspaper
he held. He couldn’t swim; no one about the
dangerous old river could, it seemed—or, at least,
not well enough to be of any use. A little boy
could be heard crying somewhere —that was a
brother. Others not so personally interested
were standing out over the river, some clutching
a handful of grass as a standby, and looking
eagerly into the water for “more bubbles.”
“Hi! boy drowned !” A police helmet was
visible on the bridge. What could its wearer do ?
There were lifebuoys along the side, but what
good were they to fetch a boy up from the bottom
of the Yarra?
The constable ran over to the tram-sheds, and
rang up Kew. They had the drags there.
“They’ll be here in twenty minutes,” he said.
Twenty minutes !
“ Ain’t you going in, Bill ? ” said a young fellow
about 19, to a somewhat older one, who was lean-
ing contemplatively against a tree. The words
were quietly said, but others heard, and affairs
took a new turn. Here was a man who could
swim ! It was passed from mouth to mouth, and
interest and hope had a new centre as they
ranged round him.
He was not much to look at —an ordinary, capa-
ble body, perhaps, but with anything but a re-
assuring face on him —a man quite thirty, but
still palpably of the push. Black of hair, with a
pallid face that had deeply-drawn leading lines on
it —the set sneer-line from the nostril down, the
set sour-line from the end of the mouth down, a
couple of short scowling-lines between the eye 3,
and horizontal worry-marks across the brow—
lines, the same in repose and action, that would
never alter, save to deepen.
He didn’t seem up to much as he leaned there,
chewing the cud (of tobacco), and looking away
beyond his mundane surroundings with a pair of
dull, listless eyes to a point somewhere just above
the distant landscape, and apparently taking no
more interest in the main occurrence than the
cows that were grazing and chewing around,
quite oblivious of tne fact that a boy was in the
water. , , .
And yet he was marked out for distinction in
that crowd. People got round him in awe, re-
garding him with a veneration that might easily
have risen into worship, for among the whole lot
of them he alone, it seemed, held the keys of life
and death —was Master of the Water. Years ago,
even as a boy, he had distinguished himself by
diving and picking up coins thrown from
the parapet of that very bridge, as was now
remembered by some. So there was a second or
two, during which every soul turned away.from
where the bubbles were bubbling yet, and skinned
its eyes and cocked its ears at Bill.
“Ain’t you goin’ in, Bill?” The impassive
face grew a shade shadier, and the heavy jaws
gave an extra rotary movement or two to make up
in anticipation for the chew-time that would be
lost in answering. “ Not in these clothes ! ”
He had on a suit of some dark material —a trifle
the worse for wear, perhaps, but of no sort of
significance whatever if he not directed
attention to it.
Then followed about four or five fresh develop-
ments closely upon one another. The city man had
no sooner started bawling to invite the crowd to
join with him in throwing Bill into the water, than
the little victim’s mother came on the scene, madly
screaming down the embankment from the road,
and claiming all attention, wailing out the poor
little chap’s name, and tearing up and down a
“ beat ” on the bank, as the crowd made way for
her. Presently, without any warning, she went
to take a header into the water herself, and being
caught and overpowered, was taken away in con-
vulsions by some women, and put in a cab.
Somebody said something about being hanged
for manslaughter.
“He’ll goin hisself I tell y’—if ’e wants to.
Go in yourself ! ” So Bill’s young friend stuck at
it in a gentle way. “Go in, Bill!” he said at
regular intervals, and the steady, imploring look
that he never took off Bill’s face would have
melted an ox.
Two other parties approached. The furthest
off were police, three of them. But nearer at
hand a company was running for its life over the
bridge, escorting a man with no coat and hat.
This man presently vaulted the parapet near the
end, and slid down the steep embankment towards
them.
Another Master of the Water it was, and he
would beat the police easy.
He had taken his things off going along, and
in his hands it was seen he clutched an open
pocket-knife. He ran heavily, methodically, and
sweated and breathed as if he had come some
distance, but kept his mouth tight shut.
Getting to the river, he gashed with the knife
the laces of his somewhat heavy boots, and kicked
them off—all in the one act —one boot rolling
down into the river.
“Here!” “Hi!” “Here!” “This is the
place!” Everyone wanted to show him, but he
just looked as if he thought as much. He went a
step or two deliberately the other way, lower
down the river, and then from a slight projection
plunged in a direction towards where bubbles had
been seen. And now there were more bubbles
and rings and commotion in the water —but what
stillness out of it!—and for what a time !
'Then up he came, and not alone. “Thank
God!” said someone, and all the women started
crying. The child’s plump cheeks were still
rosy ; it looked like the bloom of health.
The man contemptuously struck away a life-
buoy that had been shoved out to him, but gave
his free hand to the policeman and was helped
up the slippery bank, still gripping the child.
He laid it on the blankets that had been spread
in the sun, and the police wrapped it up and
drove off to the doctor’s hard by, whither followed
the crowd to besiege the house and wait for the
verdict.
The city man looked at his watch, and the diver
put on his boots. Someone had fished the odd
one out for him.
Last of all, there were only two figures left, and
they also were on the move, strolling after the
tail of the procession; but when they got up into
the road and saw the crowd round the doctor’s,
they took the other way.
“ You orter gone in, Bill! ” said one.
G. BRON.
The Conspirators.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f HEY sat furtively in the corner of the
carriage and talked in hoarse whispers.
Sometimes the fat man waved his hands
and hissed into the thin man’s ear; and some-
times the thin man hit his hands together and
hissed back. Sometimes they hissed together
and got red in the face and angry. It looked like
a fight, or two men plotting to do something useful.
Fragments of fierce whispers drifted my way.
“I’ll tell you what I heard the night before
last ”
“ That doesn’t count at all! You mustn’t take
any notice of ”
(Snorts of indignation from the fat man and
wild entreaties from the thin one.)
“ Look here ! I’ll tell you what I know ”
“ I don’t want to know it.”
“ But the boy told me” ——
“ Sh-h /”
(Period of muttering.)
“It can’t be done! You’ll never ”
“Sh-h-h /”
(More muttering.)
Suddenly the fat man drew his handkerchief
and trumpeted like an elephant.
“ Bah !” he said. “ Bah 1 ”
“ No, but listen !”
“ Bah /”
“ But there isn’t any doubt about it, man ! She’s
got a rotten temper, but”
“ No ! ” cried the fat man, and lit a match with
a trembling hand. “She’ll never do it! Look
here ” He caught the thin man by the
shoulder and dragged his head down to his mouth.
The thin man, his eyes bulging with horror,
heard, and shivered.
“ Can't be true ! ” he muttered. “ Don’t believe
it!”
“But, I—tell—you”
The thin man dragged at his moustache, shook
his head, and looked miserably at his boots.
The fat man waved his hands in the air and
hissed for two minutes, until a gleam of hope
shone in the other’s eye. Then he started to slap
his hands together and laugh fat, scornful laughs.
Now and again he sneered, and waved his hand
at the fleeting landscape. Finally, he thumped
the other on the knee and said, triumphantly,
“ What d’ye think of that 1 ”
The thin man—his eyes glittering with joy—
motioned to his companion and edged forward.
The fat man inclined his ear, and the other poured
in his story. It sounded like one prolonged hiss,
but it electrified the fat man. As the plot devel-
oped he sat up, fidgeted, clenched his hands,
swore, and at last, losing control of himself alto-
gether, yelled : “ It’s a lie ! She’s only got B'4 ! ”
The mystery was solved.
It was "the usual wrangle about a horse.
KODAR.


impure blood is the cause of very many of the ills to which
flesh is heir. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla purifies, vitalizes and n-
richesthe blood, as testified to by Mr. W. J. Pickering, Store-
keeper, Breeza, N. S. W., who sends his portrait and tells the
following interesting story :
mk
HI!
03
“In the year 1890 my ankle
broke out, and I went to a
doctor, who told me 1 was
suffering from blood poison-
ing. He prescribed for me,
but did me no good, and I
tried several other physicians
without benefit. I went into
St. Vincent’s Hospital, Syd-
ney, and, after a few months’
treatment there, came out
worse than ever, feeling
greatly discouraged. I suf-
fered terribly for four years,
until my wife, hearing of
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
got me a bottle. She persuaded me to give it a thorough trial. Soon
I noticed that the sore on my ankle began to heal, then the pain dimin-
ished, and after a course of six bottles I became as well as ever I was
in my life, and I remain in the best of health.
“ Everybody for miles around here knows what tribulation I went
through. I now recommend Ayer’s Sarsaparilla to all who suffer from
impure blood, and I am glad to say that it has done good to all who
have tried it.”
Be sure you get the original AYER’S Sarsaparilla. See
that the name —AYER’S SARSAPARILLA—is on the wrapper,
and blown in the glass of each bottle.
Prepared by DP. J. C. AYER & CO., LoweU, Mass., U. S. A,
l
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing- 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing- the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with you again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You nan return the cards if not sold. We have no connection with any other firm.
arethe largest dealers in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district;. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen.
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
Sr
IF YOU HAVE
A MAN FRIEND
to whom you want to make a little >
present that he will really appre-
ciate, may we suggest a pair of
SLEISVE LINKS from "the store
where quality counts.
The two designs illustrated here
we find extremely popular. . ,
1
w
•-lIZ
‘aiOD m *o-st Nl
■ao
• 9ZI
‘aioo *#o-© /v/
Post Free.
IN 9-01. GOLD,
1016;
Or
IN 15-ot. GOLD ,
17/6.
ĺ
Post Free
All our links are of the best make,
handsomely chased, and with strong
chain connections.
Extra weight of gold is used and the
links will give really good service.
Other patterns of links and articles
suitable for presentation purposes
are illustrated in our big catalogue.
Please ask for a copy.
ANGUS & GOOTE,
GEORGE STREET, Corner Royal Arcade, SYDNEY,
Opposite the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
sisrxaixriES'xr.
O
N THE HOP !——3oo of “ Hop’s ” Best
Drawings. Price 21s. Bulletin Office.
Health, Strength and Vigor Restored in
Four Weeks by the use of
os ri coaov
tss£t* c£ °f u \FE-
The only Infallible Remedy for WEAKNESS & DEBILITY.
Used for over a Quarter of a Century with unparalleled
success throughout the world.
Dr, Rlcord’s Essence of Life restores Manhood to the
most shattered and debilitated constitutions, rejuvenating
all the important elements of the human frame.
Price 125., or four quantities in one for 36s ; freight Is. &
ls6d. Pamphlets Free. Agents— Perry & Co., 47 Queen
St Melbourne ; F. H. Faulding & Co., 16 O’Connell St.,
Sydney, and at Newcastle, Adelaide, and Perth.
AN INTERESTING
BOOK FOR YOUNG MEN, giving instructions for the
speedy cure of Nervous and other complaints, which
embitter life and produce premature decay and loss of
nerve-power and vitality. Full directions for self-treat-
ment with internal Remedies, which has cured thousands
®{P®£ 30 5. 3 w h° had lost all hope before reading this book.
SENTFREE on APPLICATION. Address, SECRETARY,
BOTANIC INSTITUTE, Victoria Chambers, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
SUFFERERS!
I cured myself of Weakness, Loss of Strength
and Energy, in a most simple and easy manner,
after many failures. I will send the cure free to
any sufferers. Don’t pay exorbitant fees to
specialists until you have tried it. Address:
Arthur Hale, Indent Agent, Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Medicine Sent Free
To men until Cured of all NERVE Troubles, Weakness
Atrophy, Debility, Varicocele, eto., no matter how severe
the case may be. Thousands Cured Annually. Reined*'
sent by mail in plain packages. When CURED we charge
you not more than TWENTY-FIVE SHILLINGS.
Write To-day.
Address : HARVARD REMEDY AGENCY
Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
NERVOUSNESS
LOSS of ENERGY and STRENGTH,
DESPONDENCY and DEBILITY.
A Gentleman having tried In vain every
advertised remedy, and at last discovered
a SIMPLE MEANS OF SELF-CUBE, will
forward the same, free of charge, to any-
one interested.
Address: A. MINER, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Handy to have in the House.
A box of BEECHAM'S PILLS is a handy thing to have in
the house, and if a dose is taken at the moment of need much
illness will be saved.
Any trouble arising from derangement of the digestive
organs is quickly set right by
ffleechamX &Ul4.
This unrivalled medicine will do more to build up robust
health and maintain it than any other remedy.
They are unequalled for
SLUGGISH LIVER,
SICK-HEADACHE,
INDIGESTION,
LOSS OF APPETITE,
CONSTIPATION.
9
e «r
L
ms
hs
&F*
!
Site?
;
SKill
2^
SiSS
ss
Kir
§§s
SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR FEMALES OF ALL AGES.
Sold
here in boxes, price ///A (56 pills) &
If You wish to Realise
TOP PRICES
send your • • .
Rabbit Skins,
FUR SKINS?, and BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE
" TO— m
HILL, CLARK ®. CO.,
SYDNEY.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . ,
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and ail pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
YOUR FORTUNE
FREE
By the World’s Greatest Astrologer. Send me
your name, date of birth, sex, if married or single,
and Is. for postage, etc., and I will mail yon,
sealed and confidential, a document of great
value to you in the pursuits of your future happi-
ness in love, business, and other fields of life’s
activities. Thousands are this day blessing the
hour they first wrote me.
ADDRESS :
PROF. HENRI DE ASTRO,
366 Bourke St., Melbourne.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collection of his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price, 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
forward to any address our GOLD WIRE
BROOCHES on receipt of money order or
postal note. Oct. Gold-Filled Round Wire Brooches,
3/6; with Pendant, Heart, or Cross, 5/-. In tact. C.F.
Twisted Wire, 6/6; with Pendant, 8/-. Illustrated Catn.
In-lie sent Free. R. SIMS, GOLD KING, Cole’s
Book Arcade, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
BALLET GIRL
ļ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History,
Post Pros, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send'iitamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Xuuelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
S^NIT];
Superior to
COPAIBA
CUBEBS and
INJECTIONS.
Cures the same
diseases in 48
hours without
incon-
venience.
Each Capsule bears the came §ar-
ft)
men
A (VO
WOMEN
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Etc.,
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 8 daily.
DR. MARTIN'S NEW BOOK.
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd. and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if von ~, l,
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work com n s 602
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 lllustiations, with Beautifiii
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliablemedical work published iff* n ®n
.the diseases of Men and Women It is entirely different to those so-called medical books ad\ enbt 1 free
to the public. It is a complete lmcyclopaidia of information for suffeiing humanity afflicted vdihlnm.
standingchronic nervous, exhausting or painful diseases. No siunlar book has evtr lZn i7,bh>hll *
FR E E A - 5 -°‘P affe specimen copy of this grand work, containing 84 illustrations and color.d
rr * Ct giving a very fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent Pn«rTatom’
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (Che Australian Prelonlr ; FR £ E .‘
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin's Five Lectures on “ SneebD ” \n, 1 t antl "!
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). Note Address :- ' Aihnents^osted
DR m IVIARTIN f fVt.D. f “Elmley House,” EHzclb&'thmiyii
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY


OILSKINS
For Yachting;, Fishing, Camping, &c.
“ Oilolad ” Brand (Btngle through) .. 10/6
“Titan” Brand (Double through) .. 12/6
“ Dugong" Brand (Double through),
extra Ngfet.. .. 17/6
Sou’-Westers 1/8
(Black or Yellow).
CATALOGUE & SAMPLES ON REQUEST.
Perdriau Rubber Co.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
WORTHINGTON PUMP CO., Limited
Reciprocating, Centrifugal, and Power Pumps, Condensors, Feed Water Heaters
and Purifiers, Oil and Steam Separators, Air Compressors.
CATA a L °Z%fnZ E SIMPSON BROS., CLARE SYDN E YT REET •
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6cL
Posted Bd,
HYPNOTISM.
ANYONE cun learn to exert a magic influence
over others. You can become proficient in
curing diseases and bad habits of every nature.
The acquirement of these powers brings happi-
ness and health ; develops will power; gratifies
ambitions; gives one the key to personal and
social success, and suggests many opportunities
for making money. _ -
If interested, write for the book entitled,
“ The Scientific Wonder of the Age,” 64 pages,
profusely illustrated. This work instructs you
how to master all the secrets of Hypnotism,
Magnetic Healing, Personal Magnetism, and all
Occult Sciences. It is sent Absolutely Free.
Success Guaranteed.
PROF. M. LEE EDWARDS, 29 O’Connell St., Sydney, Aus.
it
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill for
Mines or Quarries Weight about ISlb-. Operated by compressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
Mines or Qn|y QH ± WOR KINC PART-Strlctly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
SOLE AGENTSi -W. & J. LEMPRIERE, 506
ŀ
all first-
class stores
in Australasia.
No. 8176| 2-BLADE
“ PAMPA,"
Cocoa Handle 116
Buffalo Handle - 21-
Stag Handle - - - 2/6
Lockwood Bros., Ltd,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
POCKET
KNrt/ES
arc the
BEST.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
!
Jd
' SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes afrd Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex j Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application*
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
I _ . .
R. L. SCRUTTON & GO
Ltd.
1
-r«
mmmmm
97 Clarence St., Sydney
Importers of & Sole Agents
MARSHALL’S Engines & Boilers, Portable,
Horizontal, Vertical, Dredge.
RUSSELL'S Black, Galvd., Tubes & Fittings.
TUCK'S English Leather Belting, Packing.
LIMESTONE Wood Pulleys, Shafting, &c.
ALBANY Compound, Oils, &c„
BALATA BELTING.
Unbreakable Pulley Co. Shafting, Pulleys,
Hangers, Pedestals, Plummer Blocks.
mzm
DUPLEX STEAM PUMP
ALL SIZES and FOR ALL PURPOSES
Engineers’, Ironmonger’s
and Machinery Merchants
HAVE. IN STOCK
ALL REQUISITES FOR STEAM USERS.
Valves
Lubricators
G.M. (Fittings
Blacksmiths’ Tools
Engineers’ Tools
Wheels and Axles
Wire Ropes
etc* j eto*
Lathes
Drilling Machines
Boilers, Injectors
Emery Wheels
Bar Iron & Steel
Sheets, Plates
Mining SteeL
GOLF
SILVERTOWN No. 9
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and RECORD for the
Leura Golf Course, at the Easter
Monday Competition, 1907.
Order from Your Professional
or THE
gilvertouin Rubber Co.
279 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
hot*
• - -.-v
THE PANKLAST
QBE CRUSHER j“> “
THE HAND MACHINE is invaluable
for Laboratory Work .
THE POWER SIZE will grind
2 to 3 cwt. ner hour.
Winding ENGINES
Of Superior Design and
Workmanship.
Single and Double Cylinder.
From 5 to 12 Cylinders.
We can give you Good Value and Satisfaction.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd
263 GEORGE STREET,
.SYDNEY.
